■ .f J> ,f J*.f .?*? f -T tT <f

V* ¥* Z% •• •• •* •• •• •• •* ••

&&

^ fl i n 1 fi rli H l H ri

^fitkhMAA+ii

lf««flfiiwr^v^i

.<* >/ :/ =/ :/ • ^jLUL£

h *i * » I 1 1 i i i \ t » >i ft i » i i dirt n i I > i * * i i> * » » > » * * " * * * » ■»

OF THE

U N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS



Srn 2 fa.
V.I

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

The person charging this material is responsible for its

renewal or return to the library on or before the due

date. The minimum fee for a lost item is $125.00,

$300.00 for bound journals.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons

for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from

the University. Please note: self-stick notes may result

in torn pages and lift some inks.

Renew via the Telephone Center at 217-333-8400,

846-262-1510 (toll-free) orcirclib@uiuc.edu.

Renew online by choosing the My Account option at:

http://www.library.uiuc.edu/catalog/

% JtOlU[L

BY

HAWLEY SMART,

AUTHOR OF " Breeze LANGTON," "FROM POST TO FINISH,'
"THE GREAT TONTINE," ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON: CHAPMAN and HALL

L Mi T E D

1887.

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

I*

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

CHAPTER I. page

ON THEIR HONEYMOON 1

Chapter II.

"WHAT SORT OF A MAN IS JOHN MADINGLEY?" . . 16

CHAPTER III.

THE WEDDING PRESENT . . . . . .30

CHAPTER IV.

THE REVEREND Jacob JARROW . . . . .46

CHxVPTER V.

CURATES COME AND CURATES GO . . . . .62

CHAPTER VI.

TUNNLETON 80

CHAPTER VIL

A LEADING CITIZEN 94

CHAPTER VIII.

"SHALL WE CALL?" . . . . . . . 109

CHAPTER IX.

BRIDGE COURT 12o

CHAPTER X.

THE GENERALS TAKE Umbrage . . . . .139

CHAPTER XL

THE Tiresias . 153

CHAPTER XII.

FINANCIAL TROUBLES 167

CHAPTER XIII.

LITERARY FAILURES 184

CHAPTER XIV.

RICHARD MADINGLEY . 2(>0

CHAPTER XV.

THE GARDEN PARTY . . . . . . .219

CHAPTER XVI.

BITTER TONGUES 237

Page 129, line 14, for " of his ironical nature" read
of its ironical nature."

„ line 17, for "through his teeth" read "through
its teeth."

Page 173, line 3, for "London Campaign" read
"Soudan Campaign."

Page 232, line 16, for "Osborne's Stable" read
Kilburne's Stable."

Page 249, line 6, for "divers sherry and bitter" read
divers sherries and bitters."

CHAPTER I.

ON THEIR HONEYMOON.

The long lazy rollers surge slowly in, and
a glorious autumnal sunset gilds the saltwater
as Maurice Enderby looks out over
the sea-wall from the Spa at Scarborough
on the departing day. A sea this without
much life in it, a sail here and there in the
far offing, but no such flood of traffic as runs
by the sea-ports on the English Channel.

He puffs hard at his cigar as he muses
over this thing that he has done. Not a

VOL. I. B

t>

wise thing, perhaps ; his friends and relations
have not hesitated to tell him, withall
that delightful candour characteristic
of friends and relations, that it is a very
foolish thing. And yet for the life of him
he cannot as yet be made to endorse that
opinion. With health and spirits a man
must be a pitiful creature who can take
a despondent view of his position at four-and-twenty.
Friends may say, acidulated
aunts may argue, respected uncles may
growl and insist, that merely to have
taken a degree at the University is not to
be called a provision for the future ; that
a man whose participation in the loaves and
fishes of the Church has got no further than
this is not justified in taking unto himself
a helpmate. But Maurice, ever masterful in
his nature, has taken his future into his
own hand, and married pretty Bessie Ma-dingle.


It was all very well, but half of that
hundred pounds upon which Maurice started
on his wedding trip is already gone, and
he ruminates sadly upon a heavy arrear
of Oxford tl ticks," and that his relations'
congratulations on his marriage consist for
the most part of bitter rebukes upon his
imprudence, and unpalatable advice with
regard to his future. The outlook is not
particularly brilliant, he has some little
income of his own, and of course a curacy
is obtainable, still it has as yet to besought
for. As for his wife, although there
is a probability of money coming to her in
the future, she has nothing at present —
the probabilities most likely depending in a
great measure upon how Maurice may prosper
in the world. It is singular that people
leave their money, not to those in urgent
need of it, but to their more prosperous

relations ; in short, let you only compass

b 2

your first legacy, and none of your relations
will ever pass you over in their wills.

A few days more, thought Maurice, and
I must pull myself together in real earnest.
I must get a curacy and eke out things
by the aid of my pen ; if it wasn't for this
confounded drag-chain of my old Oxford
liabilities I shouldn't be much afraid of
the world. Bessie is young, strong, hopeful i
and the dearest little thing possible, but we
must begin life in earnest at once. I'll
send off an advertisement tomorrow. A
curacy don't bring in much of an annual
income, but one must make a beginning,
and, let your vocation be what it may,
you don't, as a rule, rake in much to start
upon. Well ! I can make a good lunch off
bread and cheese as yet, and have still a
magnificent capacity for beer in its native
pewter, a taste nourishing and inexpensive.
And then Mr. Enderby threw his cigar-end

into the sea and strolled back to the Grand
Hotel to look after his wife.

Maurice Enderby was no weak, flabby
young man ; on the contrary, he was a
young gentleman abounding in energy and
vitality ; one of his college eleven, not at
all a bad man to hounds, and at the
same time bearing a very good reputation
for ability — he had taken a very fair
degree, and was equally a favourite both
with his fellows and the authorities. He
had been rash, foolish, no doubt; a man
of moderate means, he had striven to swim
with the brazen pots, and got badly cracked
in the process. How many of these poor
earthenware vases make shipwreck of their
lives by that short-lived struggle to keep
pace with those who have ten or twenty
times their income ! Gay, joyous, pleasure-loving
Maurice Enderby threw himself
headlong into the race with all the best

sporting set of the university, but hacks,
hunters, college wines, red coats, and all
the other paraphernalia attendant on the
*' sport of kings," run into money, and so
poor Maurice to his horror found, for at
the termination of his university career he
had to look his liabilities in the face. As
every one knows, during that period the
tradesmen of either university town take
little heed about a settlement, but the
academical course once run they become
extremely solicitous for a wiping out of
the slate, if not in full, at all events in
great measure. Maurice Enderby could
look back upon his time at the university
with one satisfaction, that whatever his
follies may have been he had at all events
taken a degree, and made at any rate
that progress up life's ladder. On arriving
at his hotel he called at the office for
letters, previous to going up to his rooms.

There were three or four awaiting him,
which, after just glancing at their superscriptions,
he thrust into his pocket, and
then leisurely ascended the stairs. He was
in good truth not a little troubled about
the future. He had never troubled about
it before. Men, as a rule, at his age, when
they have only themselves to consider, are
not wont to be very anxious on that point,
the world is all before them you see, they
have experienced no failure, the possible
woolsack, the possible bishopric, the novel,
or the play which is to make the town ring
again, are yet to be achieved.

Years spent in country curacies, years
in which the heart has grown sick awaiting
the briefs that never come ; a trunk full of
rejected manuscripts, or a play that never
saw the week through, but died drowned
in derision ; — these are the experiences
that make a man silently and sullenly

think over his own solitary welfare; but
when he takes to himself a wife he must,
unless steeped in selfishness, become conscious
that there is another life dependent
upon his exertions, and what caused him
no anxiety for himself may well, if he
really loves the girl he has married, fill
his mind with dreary forebodings about
the future.

Ah ! here you are," exclaimed Bessie,
as she sprang forward to welcome her
newly-elected lord. "I've been anxiously
awaiting you — this bracing air makes one
so desperately hungry. I am positively
dying for my dinner. Ah! letters," she
continued, as Maurice threw the little pile
on to the table. " Are there any forme?"


"Yes, three. Read them while I wash
my hands, and then we'll go down and
get something to eat."

Mrs. Enderby proceeded to run hastily
through her correspondence while her
husband donned the conventional sables.
"It is very odd," she murmured to herself ;
again there is no letter from Uncle John.
I don't understand it. There are congratulations
on my marriage from old
friends. I think I've had a kindly word
now from nearly every one, but there's
not a line from him; he, too, the one
wealthy relative I have in the world ; the
only one who has it in his power to
befriend us if he chooses. I know we've
been rash, desperately rash ; and, although
Maurice is so clever that he is sure to
make his way in his profession, yet it
must take time, and a man in Uncle John's
position could surely extend a helping
hand to us in many ways if he chose.
Surely it cannot be that he is angry with
me. Are you ready, Maurice ? " she said,

as she tapped at the door of her husband's
dressing-room.

Almost ; come in and tell me what your
news is''

Nothing much ; congratulations from
two or three dear friends whom you have
never heard of."

u And not a line from John Madingley ? "
asked her husband.

No," replied Bessie ; " it's very odd, is it
not ? "

Well, yes ; he might have sent you a
bangle or a tea-pot or a cheque. I should
have thought he could have remembered his
favourite niece to that extent ; but come
along, let us go down stairs," and the two
descended to the coffee-room.

As they entered the room a tall good-looking
man, who was apparently engaged
in a hot controversy with the head waiter,
turned his head. " Bob Grafton, by all

that's unfathomable ! " exclaimed Maurice,
as he frankly held out his hand to the newcomer.


My dear Maurice, I am delighted to see
you," rejoined Grafton, as he shook it
heartily, "and this of course is your bride.
As one of your husband's most intimate
friends I must shake hands and congratulate
you without waiting for a further introduction."


But who on earth would have thought
of seeing you here ?" said Maurice.

"My dear fellow, "there are certain places at
which you need never feel surprised at seeing
any one, and Scarborough is one of them.
People come here they don't know why."

Well ! never mind, what brought you ?"
exclaimed Maurice " Let us all dine together
and you shall tell me all your adventures
since we last met, and where your
foreign wanderings have taken you."

You mustn't pay any attention to him,
Mrs. Enderby," returned Grafton, laughing,
u cab accidents are more rife in Regent
Street and railway disasters in this country
than they are on the Continent, and in the
prosaic times in which we live that is about as
much disaster as is likely to happen to you in
Europe ; of course, if you are of a quarrelsome
disposition the luxury of a row with a
foreign gendarme is always to be had for the
seeking. It's mighty little sport and you're
sure to get the worst of it. Capital bisque,
Mrs. Enderby, try it."

And what do you mean doing now you
are at home?" said Maurice. " Are you really
going to make a start in life ? "

Of course I am," rejoined Grafton ;
didn't I get ' called' just before I left
England? but I am cursed with 800Z. a
year, and though I am going up to town
now to sit waiting for briefs, nobody ever

heard of a fellow doing much good at the
bar with so little incentive to stick to it.
I must follow Maurice's example, Mrs.
Enderby, and find me a wife ; a wife who
will want opera-boxes and carriages, and
then, like the rest of us, I shall have to serve
my eight hours a day at money-grinding —

Oh ! if I'd a thousand a year, Robin Rough,
If I had but a thousand a year.'

and if the singer didn't want two he might
make his mind quite easy that Mrs. Robin
would."

Mr. Grafton ! " exclaimed Bessie, " I
can't listen to such libels on my sex ! Wives
are not all of that description, and can learn,
if necessary, to take care of their husbands'
money. Maurice and I are poor and "

Just now," interposed Grafton gaily,
but you won't be long. Bless you ! he
can do anything if he chooses. Why,

whether it was in the class-rooms, in the
racquet court, or with the drag, he could
give us all points. You'll be rolling in
your chariot while I am disputing with the
cabman over a doubtful shilling."

"I say, Bob," said Maurice, "just give
the wife another glass of Burgundy.
Nothing goes so well with a bird as a glass
of red wine. Tell that confounded cook,"
he continued to the waiter, " I've spoken
about it once before — here are the grouse
over - roasted again ; at an hotel of this
kind we expect decent cooking at any
rate though we seldom get it. Ah ! come,
this other bird is better. By the way, Bob
you belong to this many-acred county don't
you ? Did you ever come across my wife's
uncle, old John Madingley ? — he's a well-known
sportsman up in this country."

u John Madingley! I should think he
was. Not a better known man in the three

ridings. I'd no idea that he was a relation
of Mrs. Enderby. He got down poking
about in that cramped Wilderness country
the other day and broke his collar-bone. I
saw him at Doncaster the other day with
his right arm in a sling, It was at the
sale-ring, and he was in a state of great
jubilation. He said he'd got three or four
young ones that were better-looking than
anything Messrs. Tattersall sold the whole
week."

Maurice significantly glanced at his wife,
and when she rose accompanied her to the
door and said, " Bob and I will have our
cigarette and coffee in the smoking-room
and then join you up stairs."

Chapter II.

u WHAT SORT OF A MAN IS JOHN MADINGLEY ? "

The two men proceeded to the smoking
room, and when they had rung for coffee,
had installed themselves in tolerably comfortable
chairs, and got their tobacco fairly
under weigh, Maurice said, " I suppose the
announcement of my marriage took you a
little aback, old fellow, but you see I didn't
know where the deuce you were, and it
was a rather hurried affair."

Well," rejoined Grafton, " I must own

I was surprised when I read it in The
Times, but you've got a charming little wife,
and women of her sort are not to be picked
up ever y day."

"No, that's right enough, she was worth
going i nap ' for, and that's just what it is
you see, old fellow ; I've set up house with
a very hazy idea upon what it is to be kept
going."

"Pooh! that's all clear enough; you've
got a bit of your own, haven't you ? And
you'll have no trouble about getting a
curacy; you won't want much money to
start with, and a clever fellow like you is
safe to get a living before long ; and then,
good heavens ! you'll blossom into a dean, ora
canon, or something or other, and preach
such sermons that all London will be fig-living
to get in to hear you. Dear me ! I see
lawn sleeves and the mitre in the far distance
and myself glowing with pride if your

vol. i. c

grace touches your shovel hat to me in the
park."

Don't be a fool, Bob' replied Maurice,
smiling; " it's all very well : but I'd better
tell you a little more about my marriage. My
wife is an orphan, and when I met her was
eking out the very slender income she had
inherited as governess at a house where I was
intimate. To start with, she was introduced
to me as a phenomenon. Dear Bessie's singing
was perfection ; dear Bessie was so clever,
and all the rest of it. But there were grownup
daughters in the house, and the minute
their acute feminine intelligence awoke to
the fact that I admired Bessie Madingley
extremely, then at once, in homely phraseology,
they ' made it very hot ' for their
former pet. They led her a hard life ; she
could do nothing right, and, above all, they
were fools enough to take to incessantly
snubbing the girl in my presence. I was

no great catch, but they were a good many
of them, and it was quite possible that they
thought in time I might do for one of the
daughters. Anyhow, it ended in Bessie's
position becoming unendurable, and admiration,
and then pity, upon my part, ripening
into passionate love. We had neither of us
anybody much to consult, so we took our
fate into our own hands, and made a match
of it. As far as I know, we have only one
wealthy relative — to wit, that uncle of
Bessie's you saw with the broken collar-bone
by the ring-side at Doncaster. What sort of
a man is John Madingley ? "

6i John Madingley? '' rejoined Grafton,
'why, he is a man known through all
the shires in the north country. He's getting
an old man now ; but there never was a
better sportsman than Parson Madingley.
He's been rector of Bingwell for thirty years

and more, I should think ; but he has a very
c 2

good property of his own, quite exclusive of
the living, which, indeed, is a family one,
and came to him when he was a younger
son. He's got about as good shooting as
you would find anywhere. He keeps a few
thorough-bred mares, and has been lucky
with their produce more than once. In the
former days he was a first-flight man in the
shires, and a well-known figure on every
northern racecourse. But getting on in
years stopped the first, and the present
generation are not quite so lenient to the
doings of their pastors as our fathers
were, though there was a roar of applause
through all sporting England when, some
ten years ago, they telegraphed to him that
his mare Confinement, then first favourite
for the Leger, was lame, and he replied,
She must run on three legs in the interests
of the public' "

In fact, he's what you call a good sort

all round. Bessie always says he has been a
very kind friend to her ; and, though she
has seen little of him, he has sent her many
a bank-note and kindly letter. But is he a
man with any Church interest, do you
suppose ? "

"My dear Maurice'' rejoined Bob Grafton
as he emitted a wreath of tobacco smoke
from under his moustache, and lifting his
eyebrows in perfect amazement at his
friend's unworldliness — (l is a man of good
county family, with the best of shooting,
who has held a leading position in the sporting
world, is a popular fellow, and has never
wanted anything for himself, ever without
influence ? Why, my dear Maurice, it
would be hard to conjecture how many
strings John Madingley could pull if he set
his mind to it. I haven't half your brains,
old man, but I am three or four years your
senior, and think, perhaps, I have seeii

rather more of the world than you have.
One of those men who have a good deal to
give, and never ask for anything, can lay
their hands on a lot of influential friends if
they will give their minds to it. There are
fellows who have had good days amongst
the pheasants at Bingwell ; there are fellows
who have won money over his horses ; there
are fellows who've ate their breakfast on a
hunting morning at the rectory, and seen the
parson set the field before lunch-time. It's
difficult to say what sways men on these
points; but, upon my word, I doubt whether
about being the most deserving has much to
say to it''

Well, Bob," said Maurice, with a low
laugh, " you can give me a pretty good
character to the Rev. John on some of these
points, should you come across him. You
know him intimately, I suppose ? "

"No, no, Maurice, pray don't run away

with that idea ; that's just what I don't do.
I know him very well by repute, and I do
know him personally ; but remember that
he is a man before my time ; that I am
eight-and-twenty, and he's a man hard upon
seventy ; and that, consequently, I've only
met him at rare intervals. You needn't fear,
old man, that I would neglect doing you
any turn I could, but I own I don't see
much chance of my being of use to you."

I had rather hoped you could," rejoined
Maurice, slowly. " The fact is, that, though
Bessie wrote to inform her uncle of her
approaching marriage, we have never had

a line from him since ; and we thought he
was good for a cream-jug at least. Never

mind, come upstairs, and I dare say Bessie

will give us a song ; " and as he spoke

Maurice rose from his chair, pitched the end

of his cigarette into the fireplace, and led

the way out of the room.

They found Mrs. En derby not a little
bored in the drawing-room. These big
hotel salons are wont to be somewhat dull
unless you have your two or three intimates
to associate with. That dreary waste of
velvet chairs, sofas, and piled carpets becomes
depressing as the Desert of Sahara
when it contains nought but a few scattered
Bedouins like yourself. Bedouins, I say
advisedly, for in these huge caravanserais
every man's hand is against his neighbour's.
Is he not plotting for the first glance at The
Times, for the warmest table in the coffee-room
? or, if he be a frequenter of the table
d'hote, even for the first cut of the joint ?
Humanity has an instinctive tendency to
selfishness, but for rapid, fostering of that
baleful frailty commend me to a long course
of hotel sojourning. Poor Bessie ! she could
have amused herself quite well at the piano
for an hour or two ; she sang well, and the

instrument was a good one ; but she was actually
weak-minded enough to fear to disturb
some of the other denizens of the drawing-room
— a thing that never would have entered
a thoroughly-trained hotel young lady's head.
It was the first evening since her marriage
she had been condemned to so much solitude
; and she welcomed her husband and
his friend with a smile of intense relief.

Dear me, Mrs. Enderby, I had no idea
that you were a niece of the Rev. John
Madingley. You know, of course, that
your uncle is quite a celebrity all round
this part of the country ? He is suffering
from a slight accident now ; but he's a
wonderful man of his years, and, they told
me, was going quite in the front rank when
he came to grief. Whenever they talk to
him about giving up hunting he always
laughs, and says, ' What ! give up ; me ?
Why, I'm a mere boy compared with the

Flying Parson, down in the Revoir country.
He is a good dozen years my senior ; and,
they tell me, if he gets a good start, there's
very few of the young 'uns can touch him
even now.' "

He's more than a good sportsman, Mr.
Grafton. I can vouch for his having
always been the kindest and most liberal of
uncles''

That's his character'' replied Bob ; " he's
straight and true as a die, and there's many
a tale of his pluck and liberality in bygone
days current in the country. And now,
Mrs. Enderby, sing us something''

Yes, indeed I will," replied Bessie.
After such a eulogium on my uncle you
shall have a song after his own heart," and
with a gay laugh Bessie sat down to the
piano, and rattled off

The day that we found him in Ranksboro' gorse."

Bob Grafton was delighted. " Splendid,

Mrs. Enderby," he said, as she concluded.
u By Jove ! Maurice, if the Rev. John only
hears your wife sing that, I'd lay odds
there's a codicil in his will very much to
your joint benefit. He's one of the old sort,
and wonderfully fond of a good hunting-song.
And now I think I must say e Goodnight,'
as I'm in for an early start tomorrow.
Awfully glad to have met you, old
man ; and very, very pleased to have made
your acquaintance, Mrs. Enderby. We
shan't be long before we meet again. For
the present, good-bye." And, having shaken
hands, Bob Grafton once more adjourned
to the smoking-room.

Arrived there,* he extracted a solid cigar-case
from his pocket, and, having ordered
a portentous bucket of brandy and seltzer,
proceeded to ignite what he termed a
roofed'' " By Jove ! " he said, •* poor old

Maurice ! He's got an uphill game before
him ; but he's just the fellow to pull through
it. And after seeing his wife I can
quite fancy his not caring about waiting.
She's a clipper, that little woman ; that's
what she is ! Still, a prospective curacy
isn't much to start upon. However, the
Rev. John Madingley, I should think, could
give him a pretty good lift if he chooses.
And, if he only hears Mrs. Enderby sing
Ranksboro' gorse,' there won't be much
doubt about his doing his level best to help
them ; and, if that don't do, we must just
let him see Maurice ride for once. They
won't stand hunting parsons in these days,
and therefore he mustn't g6 on with it, but
just to show the Rev. John that he isn't
a tailor ' ; just for once it would be good
business. But what is the use of nrv speculating
? Maurice is far cleverer than I am,

and knows his own business, of course,
best." With which sage reflection Bob
Grafton rose and departed in search of his
bed-room.

CHAPTER III.

THE WEDDING PRESENT.

U I was sorry not to see more of your
friend Mr. Grafton," said Bessie, the next
morning, as she and her husband dawdled
over a latest breakfast. " I suppose there's
no doubt that he did leave this morning ? "

s ' Yes ; I inquired ; and he left by the first
train for town. Here, waiter ; has the post
come in ? "

"Not the London one, sir."

Maurice was getting anxious for an answer

from an agent in town to whom he had written
some days previously on the state of
the curacy market. He had told this gentleman
the localities he preferred, and had also
given him to understand what emolument
he would expect.

The reply had not come so speedily as he
had anticipated. Maurice had yet to learn
that what we desire in this world generally
takes some waiting for.

On this occasion he was destined to be
soon put out of his suspense, for in another
few minutes the waiter announced the arrival
of the London mail, and presented him with
a letter.

Maurice tore it open, and was bitterly
disappointed at its contents. The letter
assured him the particular localities he had
mentioned were extremely popular and much
sought after, that curates at present were
almost a drug in the market, that the salary

he demanded was much in excess of that
usually given — except in large towns, or in
very out-of-the-way places, where either the
expense of living or the extreme dreariness
of the situation gave a claim to extra remuneration
— that the profession was overstocked,
and, like all other labour-markets,
suffered the usual consequences of the supply
exceeding the demand ; and finally wound
up by suggesting two or three very ineligible
curacies at what Maurice deemed very
ineligible stipends.

Telling his wife that he had received a
business letter, and would smoke a cigar and
think over it before they went out for their
usual lounge on the Spa, Maurice strolled
into the town. It was a disappointment,
and he was getting anxious on the subject
of ways and means ; but he was not a man
to be cast down at the first rebuff. It was
rather a bore for a man just married to find

the junior ranks of his profession so very
poorly paid ; however, he could doubtless
do better for himself than to listen to this
fellow's suggestions. Of course, it naturally
was to his interest to get rid of his most unsaleable
goods to start with. The chances
were the agent knew that he was a man
applying for his first curacy, and might,
therefore, be probably induced to jump at
the first thing put before him. No ; he
must try another — write to some old friends
of his father. And, having arrived at this
conclusion, Maurice threw away the end of
his cigar, and walked back to fetch his wife.

He found her already dressed, and waiting
for him on one of the seats in the hall, much
affected by visitors in the early autumn
days ; but there was a serious expression on
Bessie's face which startled Maurice directly.

Why, what's the matter, little woman ? "
exclaimed her husband. " You look as if

VOL. I. d

the bank which contained all your savings
had smashed."

Maurice, dear," she replied, " I've heard
from Uncle John."

"Well, what does he say? Is he very
angry with you for having married without
his permission, or has he sent you his blessing
and a bracelet ? "

Although Maurice made this inquiry in a
light and jesting manner, he, in reality, felt
no little anxiety to see what Uncle John
had said. Uncle John was the one relation
his wife had who could assist him in these
early days of his career, and no one but a
fool despises corks until he is convinced he
can swim without them.

No," said Bessie, " his letter is not at
all unkind; but I can't understand it. I
don't quite know what he means''

'• Let me see it. It don't seem very long,"
he remarked, as she handed it to him.

i i No ; Uncle John is not much given to
letter-writing at any time. And, of course,
his broken collar-bone would make writing
a little troublesome to him just now."

Maurice ran through the Rev. John's
epistle in silence. " Well," he said at last,
I don't wonder you're puzzled ; it bothers
me. Let me read it again : —

My dear Niece,

Pray accept my heartiest congratulations
on your marriage. Your husband, from all
I can hear about him, is a good fellow, and
you will be all the better for having somebody
to take care of you in this world. I
should have written to you before, but an
awkward fence in the Wilderness country
brought me and old Bacchus to grief, and I
don't fall so cleverly as I did some thirty
odd years ago ; the consequence was I broke
my collar-bone. It is getting all right

again now, but it must be my excuse ford
2

cutting my congratulations shorter than I
otherwise should. After all, when one has
said c Wish you joy ' I don't suppose there is
much more to be said on the subject, But
there is a little more to do. I'm going to
make you a present in my own way. I
have got the sweetest yearling filly you ever
set eyes upon. Her blood is undeniable.
Now, Bessie, I intend to go halves with you
in whatever this peerless flyer realises. So
next year your husband can follow the fortunes
of i The Wandering Nun ' with considerable
interest. Hoping to meet him
soon, I remain your ever affectionate
uncle,

si John Madlngley."

What do you make of it?" asked Bessie,
anxiously. " Uncle John don't keep racehorses,
does he ? "

Certainly not. I never trouble my head
about racing, though I've been very fond of

hunting ; still I must have heard of it if he
did, to say nothing of its being so very-unlikely,
in his position, that he would."

Surely, from what Mr. Grafton said last
night, he used to go to race-meetings and
keep a good many horses. 7 '

Undoubtedly ; but going to races and
keeping race - horses are very different
things," rejoined Maurice. " From what
Grafton said he breeds a little, and, I suppose,
sells his young things. I take it,
whatever this prodigy fetches, he intends
to present you with half of it. And though,
of course, it is rather uncertain, if he is
lucky it may turn out a very handsome
present — as much, perhaps, as two or three
hundred pounds — though, on the other hand,
thirty or forty might represent its value."

Then, even at its worst, it's likely to
be a very handsome tip. I thought I could
count on a wedding present from Uncle

John. I am glad, Maurice, that he has
put it in that shape, instead of jewelry, it
will be more useful when we come to
settle."

"I tell you what it is, Bessie," replied
her husband. "If he hadn't gone away,
Bob Grafton could have told us all about
this. He goes in for it a bit, and knows
lots of racing people. But I have no doubt
my explanation is the true one — that he has
bred a very promising filly, and intends
giving you half of whatever she fetches.
And now come along for a blow down the
Spa."

As they strolled up and down Maurice
turned Uncle John's gift over in his mind
a good deal. If it only came soon, and that
cheque was for three hundred pounds, that
cheque would be a great thing for him.
His father had been a clergyman, and had died
before Maurice went to the university, leaving

his widow modestly provided for, and
some two hundred and fifty a year to his
only son. But Maurice, when he came of
age, had dipped somewhat into his capital.
Without reckless extravagance a popular
man of his tastes had need to be a good
manager to make this modest income suffice.
And this was just what Maurice Enderby was
not. He was the last man in the world to
get twenty shillings' worth out of a sovereign.
He had not that great and glorious faculty
of u sticking to money." The northern
farmer's advice to " go where money was"
would have been quite thrown away upon
him. He was so much more likely to go
where money event. It is so with some
of us. Unlike the bees, we don't possess the
gift of acquisition; and though, doubtless?
we have parlous times, we have also in compensation
far happier days, and yet these
happier days are apt to have a sting in them.

And Maurice at this minute is grievously
troubled about his Oxford liabilities. What
had been left of his capital, and he had not
encroached upon more than a third of it, he
had settled, upon his marriage, on his wife.
But there were some six or seven hundred
pounds of Oxford ticks still hanging over
his head. And when — his university career
over — a man marries and settles down, such
creditors show a touching anxiety on the
subject of payment.

Should you mind very much, Bessie,
if we cut off a week of our wedding tour,
or rather finished it in London ? You see,
little woman, we are spending rather more
here than I care about."

•'•' Oh, Maurice," she said, pressing his
arm, " I have been afraid so for sometime.
You have always told me we are
not rich ; and I am sure we are living
at that hotel as if we had lots of money.

I never see the bills, but I do know that
much."

"Yes; and, what's more, I find I can't
look out for employment by post. I must
go up to London and see some of these
people. I tell you what, we'll leave at
the end of our week. ,,

There were a good many admiring
glances cast at the young couple as they
strolled up and down the promenade,
Maurice's tall, lithe figure, bold dark eye,
and resolute features, were such as women
love to look upon ; while Bessie, in her
way, seemed to prove quite as attractive
to the opposite sex. That promenade in
the autumn season is a strange melange of
visitors. Ladies of title, ladies of Southport
and Manchester, theatrical ladies, and ladies
of more notoriety than reputation, pass up
and down in ever varying procession. Ex-soldiers,
idle men-about-town, country gentlemen,

and scions of the peerage, all mingle
in the throng that wanders up and down?
ogling, gossiping, smoking, and drinking
in, the invigorating breezes of the North
Sea, while the music of the band titillates
their ears.

Sitting on one of the chairs just below
the circular platform occupied by the band
was a stout, pompous, prosperous-looking
man attired in unmistakeable clerical garments.
Bright beady black eyes and a
face and figure that were always aggressively
asserting the self-importance of their owner.
A man sure to catch your eye. A man
about whom you were certain to wonder
who he was. He wasn't quite a bishop
that was evident by his dress; he might bea
dean, or, in default of that, was clearly
some well-known dignitary of the Church.
He was nothing of the kind— he was only
the Rev. Jacob Jarrow, Rector of Tunnleton,

a small country town in the neighbourhood
of the metropolis. Mr. Jarrow's bright eyes
took in everything in an amused way. Up
here in the north he could afford to enjoy
himself. Anywhere in his own neighbourhood
such little oblivion of his presence
would have moved him to infinite wrath,
but these poor benighted northerners could
hardly be expected to recognise one of the
leading Churchmen of the south, for such
was the Rev. Jacob Jarrow in his own
estimation. Mr. Jarrow had waged a fierce
polemical discussion in the local newspapers,
which he believed had arrested the attention
of all the southern country. That how he
had trounced his adversary in The Templeton
Chronicle had been matter of derisive
laughter for many miles round that town
he believed firmly. He was right ; there
had been much derision on the subject, but
it had been more directed at him than at

his adversary ; although one critic of those
parts had pronounced it a case of two
pragmatical fools disputing about a subject
which neither of them understood. Still
the Rev. Jacob Jarrow was firmly impressed
that, under the pseudonym of " Thomas
Verity' he had acquired solid literary
fame ; that he was pointed out as the author
of the " Verity Papers," and that it was a
singular thing he never saw his photograph
in the shop windows, nor was asked for his
autograph outside the precincts of Tunnel


Tired of strolling up and down, Maurice
and his wife sat down on the seats adjacent
to Mr. Jarrow. That reverend gentleman,
not wishing that any frivolous view should
be taken of his character, had brought with
him a number of The Nineteenth Century.
The magazine had fallen to the ground, and
Maurice, stooping down, courteously picked

it up and returned it to him — a trifle,
destined to play no little important part in
the next year or two of Maurice Enderby's
life.

CHAPTER IV.

THE REV. JACOB JARROW.

Mr. Jarrow acknowledged the polite attention
with a bland smile.

Thank you, sir," he said. " The beauty
of the scene, the soft strains of the band,
and the invigorating sea - air, made me
oblivious of my friend here. Very interesting
articles to be met with in its covers."

The anecdote of the great statesman who,
upon turning over the leaves of one of the
heavy-mettled magazines in its early days,
shrugged his shoulders and murmured the

brief criticism, " Dolorous drivel," flashed
across Maurice's mind; but he felt it behoved
him to make friends with the dignitaries
of the Church ; and, though The
'Nineteenth Century was no particular
favourite of his, he acquiesced in Mr.
Jarrow's opinion.

It's a glorious triumph, sir," remarked
Mr. Jarrow, " it sends a glow of enthusiasm
through your body, the power of
disseminating your views in print. Your
fellow-men who have read you cannot but
look at you with admiration."

Conceited fool ! '' thought Maurice ; " he
must surely know that his fellow men take a
very opposite view of the performance sometimes."


More especially," continued the Rev.
Jacob, " when, after a somewhat prolonged
controversy, you've got your adversary in a
particularly tight place. You can enjoy

your laugh, sir, when you feel sure that
your friends and neighbours are all laughing
with you."

You must be quite sure that they are
laughing with you," thought Maurice ; but
all he said was, " I presume you yourself
wield a pen pretty frequently, sir ? "

•' Certainly; I don't let my grey goose-quill
rust in the ink stand, as I think they
would tell you down in the southern
counties. I think I have made my mark
in my own part of the country. I am
pretty well known down there. You may
have heard, sir, of the c Verity Letters.' I
am Thomas Verity." And no words can
describe the self-complacency with which
Mr. Jarrow made the announcement.
Maurice had a strong sense of humour,
and it was with the greatest difficulty that
he restrained his laughter.

Everybody has heard of the ' Verity

Letters " he rejoined tenaciously, u but I
regret it has not been as yet my privilege to
read them. However, Mr. Verity, now I
have had the pleasure of meeting the author,
I shall lose no time in repairing that
omission."

a Perhaps you will do me the honour to
accept a copy. I happen by chance to have
one with me."

It would have been an extraordinary
chance that found the reverend gentleman
without one ; he always travelled with
about half-a-dozen in his baggage, and
presented a copy to any casual acquaintance
he might pick up. He found it easier to
dispose of them in this way than through
the medium of the publisher.

u Thank you, Mr. Verity, I shall be very
proud to have a presentation copy, and shall
read the book, I am sure, with extra zest
on that account. I dare say they made

VOL. I. E

a great sensation at the time they were
published."

They did, sir ; but you must excuse me.
You doubtless know nothing about the
customs of the literary world. ' Verity ' is
only my nom de plume. You are aware,
perhaps, that we authors constantly veil our
personality under an assumed name."

Would it be indiscreet," inquired
Maurice, once more struggling with suppressed
laughter, u to ask Thomas Verity's
real name ? These things, you must know,
speedily become such very open secrets."

u Too true, my dear friend," replied the
Rev. Mr. Jarrow, who had a capacity for
swallowing any quantity of oleaginous
flattery, and already mentally pronounced
Maurice to be a very clever gentlemanly
young man. " If you once make a hit with
the public they will know your real name
and all about you. Anybody, for instance,

at Tunnleton could tell you that Thomas
Verity is the Rev. Jacob Jarrow, rector of
St. Mary's."

u I beg your pardon," said Maurice, " but
I know Tunnleton a little, I suppose I ought
rather to say did, for it's a good while since
I've been there, not since my boyhood indeed.
I had some friends there with whom
I used occasionally to stay for the Easter
holidays when I was at Harrow. My people,
you see, live down in the west country, and
thought it rather too far and too expensive
to have me home for a week ; it is quite
possible, Mr. Jarrow, that I may have had
the honour of hearing you in the pulpit, but,
however eloquent the divine may be, it is
difficult to make an impression on a schoolboy."


"No, at that age you would hardly be
capable of thoroughly comprehending a discourse
of mine. I don't preach to babes and
e2

HNWERSITY OF ILUiWft
UBRAR1

sucklings, sir, but to people of understanding
; and I flatter myself they rarely forget
my poor efforts."

Mr. Jarrow's traducers would have emphatically
endorsed that remark, and opined
that he was usually remembered as what
Baxter denominates, " a pious and painful
preacher."

61 May I ask," continued Mr. Jarrow,
"the names of your friends in Tunnleton,
and whom I have the pleasure of speaking
to?"

My name is Maurice Enderby," replied
the young man smiling, " and this lady is
my wife."

The rector raised his hat and murmured,
"that he was delighted to make Mrs.
Enderby's acquaintance."

I ought further to observe," continued
Maurice, " that I am entitled to add the
prefix of Rev. to my name."

"What, my dear sir, a brother in the
vineyard ! Allow me to shake you by the
hand. But you're young as yet, surely, to
be trusted with the cure of souls."

"You are quite right'' rejoined Maurice,
laughing. " I am not as yet ordained.
The cousins at Tunnleton with whom I used
to stay are the Chyltons."

"Ah! I knew the old people very well,"
replied Mr. Jarrow, "but I don't know much
of the present generation. They are not
parishioners of mine. And now methinks
the sea-breezes sharpen the appetite, and it is
getting time to attend to the inward man."

I quite agree with you'' rejoined
Maurice. " Come along, Bessie. You don't
happen to be staying at the ' Grand, ' Mr.
Jarrow, do you ? "

No, no, Mr. Enderby," replied the
rector, " that is rather too gay and rackety a
place for a man holding my position in the

Church. I am in lodgings ; which are much
quieter and less expensive. I wish you good
morning." And, raising his hat to Mrs.
Enderby, he took his departure. Suddenly
he turned, and coming rapidly back exclaimed
: u Don't be afraid, I won't forget
the book. I'll send it round to you at thei
Grand.' As a clergyman's wife I dare say
it will interest you, Mrs. Enderby." And
with another flourish of his hat the rector
wheeled about and sailed off in his usual
stately fashion.

Well," said Bessie, laughing merrily, " I
always say there's never so great a fool but
what he has a grain or two of common sense
at the bottom of him ; and after all the
inflated rubbish he has talked to us this
morning that was a sensible remark he made
at the end."

What do you mean ? " asked Maurice.

The lodgings are much quieter and less

expensive than at the ' Grand,' my dear''
And Mrs. Enderby looked archly up into
her husband's face.

Maurice's only answer was an impatient
a Pshaw ! " and the pair went home to
luncheon in excellent spirits, however uncertain
their prospects.

There was a letter awaiting Maurice
when he arrived at the hotel, an ominous
looking document in a square stout blue
envelope. The young man just glanced at
it, and at once decided to put off the
perusal of it till after luncheon. He felt
sure its contents would be unpleasant, and,
like a true philosopher, resolved that his
digestion should not be interfered with.
But, his meal once finished, Maurice tore
open the envelope, and found it a stern
and very peremptory demand for his little
account from Mr. Badger. Now Mr.
Badger was Maurice's most serious creditor

at Oxford. Mr. Badger was a livery-stable
keeper, who supplied undergraduates with
unlimited hacks and hunters during their
University career. During that time Badger
never troubled you for money, but, when
the period of your academical course was
run, then Badger demanded his due, or,
at all events, a pretty stiff instalment of
it. Now there is no account a man can run
that runs with the rapidity of this. Half-guineas
and guineas for hacks, three guineas
for hunters, tandems and items of different-descriptions
— all these gather with the
rapidity of a snow-ball, and, though Maurice
during his residence at Cambridge
had more than once paid what he thought
a stiffish cheque on account, he was perfectly
aghast at the tremendous bill Mr.
Badger presented him with when they
wound up their dealings together.

Badger's was not quite such a lucrative

trade as it appeared; if he charged very
stiff prices he undoubtedly found good
cattle, and in most cases had to wait a
long while for his money, and sometimes
failed to obtain it at all. He calculated that
generally the young gentlemen's friends
would pay up for them, but there were
cases in which he was doomed to disappointment.
Sometimes parents and guardians
sickened at the young scapegraces' extravagances,
in others there were no friends who
could pay for them if they would. It is
not surprising, therefore, that Mr. Badger
should, in his own vernacular, u put the
screw on '' as soon as his customers left the
University. He was not merciless, but
required to be propitiated by pretty frequent
instalments, and, as he was rather
hungry on the matter of interest, if the
instalments were small, the bill grew atone
end as fast as it diminished at the other.

This unluckily was Maurice's case, and the
interest on his debt at the end of the year
usually amounted to over half of the sum
that he had paid upon it. Mr. Badger
constantly threatened severe legal extremities
; he at times undoubtedly resorted
to them, but he was a man wise in his
generation, and as long as his victims
submitted to an annual plucking he abstained
from wringing their necks. It was
no use, he argued; a good many of these
suckling lawyers and parsons could not
make the money to begin with, and that
if he could grind the interest out of them,
and a little bit off the principal to boot, he
could afford to wait ; but he kept his clients
under the harrow while their debt lasted,
and many of them bitterly regretted the
first day they crossed a hack of Tony
Badger's.

About Maurice En derby he had made

two mistakes. He was a man who made
very precise inquiries as to the means of
his customers. He had discovered that
Maurice's money was entirely in his own
hands, but his informant had considerably
over-estimated the amount of it. Mistake
number two, though not of so much importance,
was this, that it had never entered
his calculations that Maurice Enderby
would marry so soon. He knew that
the wringing money from him just now
would probably be considerably more difficult
than if he had remained single. Against
that was to be placed the fact that he was
more likely to set to work and make it at
once than dawdle two or three years thinking
about doing so. Still, Tony Badger
kept to his old theory of dealing with such
debtors as his: "Keep 'em under the harrow?
sir, keep 'em under the harrow," was his
advice invariably when talking over their

out standing accounts with some of his
brethren at the Tradesmen Club — men who,
like himself, ministered to the wants of the
undergraduates in liberal and paternal
fashion. — " What, not hunt, Mr. Enderby,
with such hands and a seat on a horse as
yours. Such weather as this and all, why
it's a sin, sir. There's old Rocket, the
best hunter I have in the stable, standing
idle tomorrow. I shall send him on for you
tomorrow, and you'll find a hack all ready
for you as soon as you like to come down
for it. Now, nonsense Mr. Enderby, don't
say you can't afford it, you can pay me
when you're a dean or a bishop, or on the
bench, or something or other. And mind,
you won't be able to hunt in those days,
or, if you do, your nerves won't be what
they are now, sir. You'll go through a gate
instead of over it, and never be in the first
flight again. No, sir, have your fling while

you're young, and pay off the score when
hunting's no fun to you." That was the
way the artful sophist tempted the poor
stupid toad to first come under the harrow.

CHAPTER V.

CURATES COME AND CURATES GO.

A pretty, pleasant, dear, quarrelsome little
town was Tunnleton ; situated in the
prettiest county in England, within easy
distance of the metropolis It boasted a
medicated spring and a pump-room, wherein
for a trifle waters of exceeding nastiness
might be tasted. Tunnleton, indeed, informer
days, had been a notable health
resort, and fine folks had flocked thitherto
drink from its hyssop-flavoured fountain ;

not because they required it, but because it
was the fashion. Nowadays the place was
no longer fashionable. The pump-room
bore a mildewed neglected appearance ; and,
except for some passing stranger, who, from
idle curiosity, quaffed a beaker of its waters
the presiding nymph would have found her
post profitless.

But Tunnleton was far from admitting
that its glory had departed. It still regarded
itself as a supreme authority on taste and
good style. Its citizens, on their occasional
visits to the metropolis, regarded the pomps
and vanities of London with a hypercritical
eye. They were all very well in their way;
but they would not quite do for Tunnleton.
They were wont to admit, superciliously,
that town was full ; but implied at the same
time that there was more going on in Tunnel
They were quite of the same mind
with that celebrated local patriot who said

si London is all vary fine; but gie me Peebles
for pleasure." They shut their eyes pretty
tightly to the exceeding dulness of the
dreary little place, and, by some pious
stretch of imagination, persuaded themselves
that life in Tunnleton was one delirious
whirl of enjoyment. They spoke to each
other in almost reproachful fashion about
how very gay the season had been, as if it
really did behove one to resist so much temptation,
and to take a more serious view of life.
It won't do, my dear ; it won't, indeed ;
I can't put up with it any longer,"
exclaimed the Rev. Jacob Jarrow, as he
sipped his tea and crunched his toast, looking
lazily out over one of the prettiest landscapes
in England. " Mr. Lomax must go ;
he sacrifices all his parish duties to the pursuit
of that idiotic amusement lawn tennis ;
and, instead of coming to church to say
their prayers, as Christian young women

ought to do, there's half the girls of Tunnel
come simply to make eyes at my curate.
Can't you see it yourself, Mrs. Jarrow ?
When I preach in the morning, sermons too,
mind you, full of pungency and erudition,
why the church is half empty. When that
young puppy preaches in the afternoon the
church is crammed. No rational being can
suppose that they come to hear him. No,
Mrs. Jarrow, those misguided young women
come to look at him ; they work slippers for
him furtively ; and cherish secret; hopes of becoming
Mrs. Lomax, and sharing his penury.
A pretty qualification for an eligible suitor
that he hits a ball rather deftly over a net.
No ! he must go ; and I'll take very good
care that my next curate is either married or
too old to play lawn tennis ; or so hard-favoured
that there is no feminine anxiety
to be his partner."

u Of course you know best, my clear''

VOL. I. F

said Mrs. Jarrow ; "but I think Mr. Lomax
does the duty very nicely, and he is very
popular in the parish ; and then, you know,
he thinks so much of you," continued the
good lady jesuitically. "I have heard him
speak quite with enthusiasm about the
< Verity Letters.' "

Mrs. Jarrow might not be a very clever
woman ; but the dullest of wives are usually
thoroughly awake to their husbands' weaknesses.
She knew her spouse's vanity,
especially on the point of that imaginary
literary reputation, based principally on
what he believed to be those famous letters.
She was a practical, good-natured motherly
woman; and honestly liked the young curate.
He was, as her husband said, popular
amongst the people around, doing his work
fairly, of irreproachable character, and always
ready to make a fourth at lawn tennis,
warble sentimental ballads in a mild tenor

voice at afternoon tea, which the ladies pronounced
"too awfully sweet," or join in the
dissipation of a carpet dance with the accompaniments
of negus and a piano. Mrs.
Jarrow, to those unacquainted with the
menage, appeared as wax in her lord's hands.
She put in her mild protest, which was at
once, apparently, overwhelmed by the blustering,
arrogant, decision of her spouse.
But Mrs. Jarrow was one of those quiet,
pertinacious women that never abandon their
point ; returning to it again and again, with
what may be described as placid obstinacy —
a thing extremely difficult to cope with.
The Rev. Jacob Jarrow was very apt to
change his original decision before many
weeks were over his head. In racing parlance,
the lady " stayed " the longest ; but
there was a point against her this time that
she rather overlooked, to wit, that the Rev.

Jacob's vanity was wounded. To discover

f2

that his curate had more attractions in the
pulpit than himself was excessive mortification
to a man like the rector of St.
Mary's, who considered that his windy
orations were model discourses, and that his
delivery was striking. He was in the main
perfectly right that Mr. Lomax's social
popularity accounted for the good attendance
at St. Mary's when he officiated, for
the young man's sermons were composed for
the most of those mild platitudes which have
so often brought exceeding drowsiness to
most of us ; but, for all that, there was no
denying the fact that the parishioners preferred
the milk and water of the curate to
the windy garrulity of the rector.

For once in a way Mrs. Jarrow found her
influence of no avail ; return to the charge
as often as she might, the rector was firm.
Mr. Lomax must go. That gentleman was
too fond of gadding about to attend to his

duties properly, declared Mr. Jarrow ; but,
though he insisted vehemently on this to his
partner, the rector knew in the bottom of
his heart it was hardly the truth. No doubt
Mr. Lomax might have been more energetic,
more enthusiastic about his work, but to say
that he neglected it was manifest exaggeration.
He was a good looking young fellow,
of whom Tunnleton society had taken upon
themselves to make much. Young men were
somewhat scarce in the gossiping little town,
and an " adaptable " cavalier willing to be
useful all round was something to be made
much of. Mr. Lomax was all this: of a
cheery sociable nature, he gave a thorough
quid pro quo for all the hospitality he
received; and there was, perhaps, no more
popular gentleman in all Tunnleton than the
curate.

It's no use, oh ye heads of families, fuming
at the airs they give themselves ; you

cannot get on without these nonchalant
young men, who from necessity live upon
mutton chops, or a cut off the joint, washed
down by club St. Stephen, which sets one's
teeth on edge, but who drink your carefully-selected
champagne and abuse your cook, in
their callous ignorance, when you entertain
them. What judges of wine, women, tobacco,
and horseflesh most of us were before
the down on our upper lip was recognised
as a moustache by any one save ourselves ;
and how diffident we become in our opinion
concerning them at the end of another five-and-twenty
years.

Mr. Lomax was very much taken aback
when the rector broke to him that, at the
end of the year, he should dispense with his
services. He liked Tunnleton as well as
Tunnleton liked him ; and, till such time asa
living might be offered him, was well-content
with his present position. He had

always got on capitally with Mr. Jarrow,
there had never been the slightest friction
in their relations ; and, therefore, the curate
was most genuinely surprised upon receiving
his cone,

I trust," he said, " that you have no
fault to find with the performance of my
duties, Mr. Jarrow."

Certainly not ; and, though you are,
perhaps, a little more given to tennis and
such amusements than I quite approve, I
shall be happy to give you excellent testimonials."


But you surely can't object to my dancing,
playing tennis, or mingling in the
society of the place," urged Mr. Lomax.

u No ; it is not exactly that. I am perfectly
satisfied with you ; perfectly satisfied,
as I said before : but the fact is, that, now
that my great controversy is over, and
Thomas Verity has triumphed over his contemptible

opponents, I really don't know
that I am justified — in short, there is nothing
to prevent me — in fact, I think I can do all
the parish work myself."

Mr. Jarrow hummed and hated a good
deal over this speech. He was conscious
that he was indulging in " tarradiddles,"
but he could not confess that he was jealous
of Mr. Lomax's popularity in the parish.
Even to himself he scarcely admitted that,
persistently thrusting the thought away from
him as we are apt to do such secret motives
when a little ashamed of them. There was
no reason that Mr. Jarrow should not change
his curate ; it was equally natural that Mr.
Lomax should wish to know why he was
dismissed, and the consequence was inevitable
; nothing was left for Mr. Jarrow but
to equivocate. Civilization entails regard
for the feelings of our fellows which naturally
necessitates untruthfulness. Shall

we have less regard for our own feelings
than those of others ? I trow not, whatever
sentiment may say about it ; at all events
it is not so in my experience.

Mr. Lorn ax entertained strong doubts of
the good faith of the rector's statement, but
there was no more to be said, and undoubtedly
it was possible for a man to do
the work of St. Mary's single-handed if
he chose to stick to it ; still it was some
years since Mr. Jarrow had undertaken it,
and he had neither increased in energy
nor decreased in love of literary warfare
during that period. If the Verity Letters
had come to an end all Tunnleton knew the
rector of St Mary's was on the alert for
some similar opportunity. Mr. Lomax saw
no reason, now that it was definitely decided
that he was to go, for keeping the thing a
secret, and in a day or two all Tunnleton
was aware that they were to lose their pet

curate. Tunnleton was excessively wrath ;
what the matrons denominated useful young
men were scarce in the little town, and Mr.
Lomax was a decided acquisition at either
dance or garden party.

Generals Maddox and Praun, in their
position of prominent leaders of Tunnleton
society, curiously enough were particularly
exercised about this news. The veterans
you see had not much to occupy their minds
in this place, and the satrap of an Indian
province may in his declining years be absorbed
in the babble of a country town.
These were men who, far from making
their mark, had, indeed, rather made a
muddle of their opportunities, still they
had in their day swayed the destiny of
thousands, and yet as our sphere contracts
so do our ideas. The petty gossip
and caballing of an inland watering-place
were more to them now than the

news that the Mahratta were across the
Nerbudda.

Imbued with the old dictatorial instincts
of their profession, the veterans occasionally
forgot that they were no longer military
despots ruling a district, and foolishly promulgated
edicts or ventured upon expostulation
for which they had no warrant.
Triumvirates and consulates have never
been a success 'tis doubtful whether the two
kings of Brentford worked well together, but
where — as in the case of Tunnleton — the
generals were as plentiful as shells on the
shingle, there were not two but many claimants
of the sceptre ; and there was much jealousy
concerning social status amongst these
grim old warriors. A dinner party for instance
in Tunnleton bore some resemblance to that
famous congress of the last century which
dissolved because they never could settle the
order in which to take their seats. The

gallant officers at length came to the conclusion
that in the interests of Tunnleton
it were well that they should expostulate
with the rector on the subject, yet at the
same time they knew from experience that
this was a somewhat awkward undertaking ;
the rector was quite as pompous as General
Maddox himself, and more obstinate than
the two put together ; still, as Praun said, he
must speak and he would, and that irascible
gentleman had very little difficulty in churning
himself np to that white heat at which
when attained he felt capable of giving the
Archbishop of Canterbury himself a bit of
his mind. He had not long to wait his
opportunity — ere forty-eight hours were over
he encountered Mr. Jarrow on the promenade.
General Praun might not be a discreet
man, nor yet a judicious one, but he
could not be called an inert one. In those
days when he occupied an office-chair no

staff-officer ever penned such fiery diatribes
at the shortcomings of his subordinates ashe.
When, unfortunately for his country,
he changed the office-stool for the sword
no leader ever delivered such hasty, ill-designed,
and unfortunate attacks as the
general. He was essentially an irascible
man, and, to use a slang phrase, was always
" to be drawn " in action, argument,
or correspondence, and, like most of these
hot-headed, bellicose natures, had considerably
more fight than science.

u Good morning, Jarrow," he exclaimed;
the very man I wanted to meet. What
is all this I hear about your parting with
young Lomax ?"

The rector drew himself up a little stiffly
as he replied —

u You have been correctly informed,
General, Mr. Lomax and I are about to
part."

Oh, that's all nonsense, Jarrow, you
will have to reconsider that verdict ; we
can't spare him, you know ; most popular
young man in Tunnleton ; most popular
preacher we have had at St. Mary's " —
and here the general pulled himself up
abruptly, and manifested a severe affection
of the throat, having suddenly become
aware that he was putting his foot in it,
and that his last remark was hardly complimentary
to the rector of that church.

"I don't think, General Praun," replied
Mr. Jarrow, with much stateliness, u that
Tunnleton has anything to do with my
private arrangements with Mr. Lomax ;
suffice it to say that I think it desirable
that we should part."

The people about will regret it very
much ; and I suppose you have some regard
for public opinion," replied the general,
getting very red in the face.

u Not when public opinion is meddling
in things with which it has no concern.
The laity have nothing to do with things
ecclesiastic, '' and the rector quite chuckled
after the, so to speak, oily rotundity of his
last remark.

I can hardly call your parting with a
curate ' things ecclesiastic,' " retorted General
Praun, hotly ; u and I presume I have
a perfect right, like all Tunnleton, to hope
that it is not the case. Good morning."

A stately salutation was the sole response
of Mr. Jarrow. He bowed to his equals,
or waved his hand condescendingly to his
inferiors ; but the familiar nod was a thing
that he never descended to ; indeed, the
man's pomposity and vanity precluded Mr.
J arrow's having" any intimates.

CHAPTER VI.

TUNNLETON.

A letter from the Reverend Jacob Jarrow,
after some days, found Maurice Enderby.
He was living in very quiet lodgings in Margaret
Street, and considerably exercised in
his own mind on the subject of this curacy.
It was not that curacies were not offered
him, but they might be described as curacies
of desolation. Framley- on-the-marsh, for
instance, in the far fens of Lincolnshire, was
not the kind of thing that any one but a

Diogenes would jump at. Slopperton-on-
the-Sea was undoubtedly a very rising
watering-place, but then it had, as yet,
equally undoubtedly not risen ; was crowded
for a few weeks in the height of summer
with ineligible visitors from the neighbouring
towns, and was a place you socially
shared with the doctor and coastguard
officer during the remainder of the year.
That employment of some sort he must get,
and that speedily, was perfectly clear to
Maurice ; but that it would be very bitter
bread if it was to be earned in such cures
as had hitherto offered themselves to his
acceptance, was no less patent. Therefore
it was with a perfectly jubilant feeling that
he perused a letter from the Rector of St.
Mary's which was forwarded to him.

Mr. Jarrow not only offered a more
liberal salary than was proffered for any of
the places before-mentioned, but Tunnleton

vol. I. G

was in the world, Tunnleton was within
fifty or sixty miles of London. From
Tunnleton there was a chance of running
up to town now and again, and looking out
for something better. Besides, there must
be society of some sort at Tunnleton ; considerably
more than could be said of such
places as Framley-on-the- Marsh or Slippers
Maurice Enderby, after due
confabulation with his wife, resolved to run
down to Tunnleton, and have an interview
with the Rev. Jacob Jarrow.

;i Can't be very awkward to get on with''
muttered Maurice to himself. u A gentleman
with such an appetite for flattery is always
to be kept in good humour. A dexterous
allusion to the Verity Letters will, no
doubt, always keep the pompous old humbug
in an amiable frame of mind. One
drawback — I shall really have to plod
through those two awful volumes at once.

I think, for our own comfort, it would be as
well that Bessie knew a good deal about
them too."

Mr. Maurice Enderby was a shrewdest man
of the world, and, albeit not cynical, had
rather a quick eye for the weaknesses of his
fellow creatures. It must not be thought that
he was given to practise on them, but he could
not help seeing th heir foibles, and did sometimes,
in a social point of view, avail himself of this
insight to make himself pleasant to his acquaintance.
I don't know that there is very
much harm in this. Upon the whole the world
would perhaps be pleasant if there were
more people of the Maurice Enderby type
about it.

Yes, he thought he would write to the

Reverend Jacob Jarrow a letter of half

acceptance of his proposition. It was not

necessary to be quite conclusive to begin
g2

with, and then he thought it would be
advisable — that letter despatched — to run
down quietly to Tunnleton, and talk the
matter over with his old friend Frank
Shelton.

The young banker was a bit his senior,
but still they had been friends as boys, and
Frank certainly could tell him all about
Tunnleton and its inhabitants, could give
him indeed a rough graphic sketch of the
society he was coming amongst : a social
chart that would not only be invaluable if
he did accept Mr. Jarrow's offer, but would
also go far to determine him on the subject.
It behoved Mr. Enderby to lose no time intaking
action on the subject of employment.
He threw two letters into the post that
night ; the one, while half accepting Mr.
Jarrow's proposition, required a little further
information before giving a decided
answer : the other was to Mr. Chylton, mentioning

the offer he had received and proposing
to run down to Tunnleton and talk
the thing over with him. Frank, no doubt,
could give him some lunch, and he should
be able to get back to London in time for
dinner. He received his answers by return
of post; the rector expressed his pleasure
at finding that there was a prospect of Mr.
Enderby's taking service under his banner,
answered his questions with considerable
verbosity, trusted his replies were satisfactory,
and wound up by saying that he
hoped to see Mr. Enderby at Tunnleton
with the New Year.

Frank Chylton's was the briefest :
Dear Maurice' he said,

Come down and lunch, and I will put
you au courant with c all the ropes.' I only
hope to induce you to temporarily settle at
Tunnleton. Of course, old man, I can't say
I hope to keep you ; we must all wish that

you will fall in for something better than old
Jarrow's curacy ere long, hut it may do as a
stop-gap. The Reverend Jacob told me in
the strictest confidence that he intended to
make you this offer, three or four days ago.
And as you now, in the strictest confidence,
tell me that he has made it, I suppose I
ought to proclaim it openly in the marketplace,
that being the usual result of all
confidential communications at Tunnleton.
However come down any way and see me,
old man, as soon as you can. I will feed
you with the greatest possible pleasure, and
give you all the information about the place
you can require. I am a native, and know
Tunnleton thoroughly, and regret to say
take a very much lower estimate of Tunnel
than Tunnleton takes of itself'*

When Maurice had finished this letter, he
threw it over to his wife.

There, Bessie," he said, " I think that

sounds promising to start with, but there can
be no doubt that I had better run down for
the day, and talk the business over with
Frank Chylton. It's high time I got something
to do, and this, really, is so very much
better than anything that has been offered meas
yet." And so Maurice, having scribbled
a line to warn his friend that he was coming,
put himself into the train next day, and ran
down to hear what Frank Chylton might
have to say on the subject of social life at
Tunnleton.

Frank Chylton met him at the station 5
and, after shaking him cordially by the
hand, hurried him off at once to be introduced
to Mrs. Chylton.

Seen through the medium of Frank Shelton'
s home it was not to be wondered at that
Maurice took a roseate view of Tunnleton.
Frank had not only a pretty house but a
very bright, pretty, young wife, who welcomed

her husband's old friend with hearty
cordiality. It was very possible, after partaking
of the good things at Frank Chylton's
table and enjoying the good-humoured fun
and talk of himself and his wife, to conceive
that Tunnleton was an extremely pleasant
place. We are all like that : dull-headed in
our generation and wont to conceive that,
because we have found one country house
pleasant, Bedfordshire is the j oldest county
in England ; that because we lost both our

head and our heart about Miss well, never

mind her name : perhaps we have forgotten

it now and she ours at that dreary old

fishing village of Slocombe Regis that it is
a delightful watering-place.

Now, Frank' said the hostess, as she
rose at the conclusion of the luncheon, " I
shall leave you and Mr. Enderby to talk
over Tunnleton. Don't pray let him disenchant
you with it. There is no doubt that

Tunnleton has its weaknesses. It is firmly impressed
with the idea that it is a leading
centre of fashion, and that the verdict of
Tunnleton carries weight throughout the
country. Don't laugh, Mr. Enderby ; it is a
very innocent weakness and really deserves
no more than to be smiled at. Besides'' she
concluded, gaily, u you know you're going
to be one of us, and the next time I greet
you," and as she spoke she extended her
hand, " I trust it will be as curate of St.
Mary's ; " and Mrs. Chylton, with a bright
little nod, took her departure.

." Have one of these, Maurice," said Frank,
as he threw his cigar case across ; u there's
no extra brand about 'em. I didn't pay three
pound a pound for them. I can only say
they're tolerably movable. Now I really
think you might do worse than accept Jarrow's
offer ; you have seen him, and no doubt
taken tolerable stock of him. He's a pompous

old man, with a very exaggerated idea of
his position, both in the clerical and literary
world ; but he is a gentleman, and not altogether
a bad fellow. I should think with a
little tact you would have very little trouble in
getting on with him, and if you really want
an opening it's well worth your consideration ;
close to London, and all that, so that you're
well in the way of hearing of anything
better, and, as for Tunnleton society, I tell you
fairly it is peculiar. I don't go much into it
myself. I've a small circle of friends here
and confine myself to them, as a rule. But
my wife is perfectly right : Tunnleton society
generally is like the frog in the fable, simply
in danger of bursting with a sense of its own
importance.

We've little knot of half-pay generals who
know very much more about foreign affairs,
military affairs, and political affairs, than the
ministry or the War Office. We have also

got a pleasant little knot of retired Indians
addicted to biliousness, highly spiced dishes,
and incessant perturbation about the Afghan
frontier. A few more idlers, whose principal
business is gossip — well, I suppose some
people would call it talking scandal — tobacco,
and billiards. There you are, Maurice ; if
you come here you're certain of one thing,
you will be talked about. There is no place
in which a man who has done nothing can
make so sure of that, still, as I said before,
old fellow, I think it ought to suit you. If
it is rather a humdrum place, it is healthy,
and the country around is lovely. As far as
the shops go they really are good, all the
necessaries of life are easily to be obtained
in Tunnleton. My advice to you is simply,
try it. You are at all events well
in the way of looking out for something
better."

Maurice puffed silently at his cigar for

some two or three minutes, and then uttered
sententiously the single word

Lodgings."

Both plentiful and good, and at all
prices. You could, if you like it better,
take a small furnished house upon reasonable
terms. You will find no difficulties on
that point if \ou make up your mind to
accept Jarrow's offer."

Yes, I think I might do worse. I
haven't time to go and see him to day , but
I'll write him a line to-night, and propose
coming down to talk matters over tomorrow."
" Halloa ! " exclaimed Maurice, as
his eye fell upon the clock, " my time is up ;
I'll just look into the drawing room and
say good-bye to Mrs. Chylton, and then I
must wend my way to the station. "

I'll walk down with you," said Frank,
it is all on my way back to business. You

must be brief in your adieu to Laura, as
we have not much time to spare."

A hasty shake of the hand with Mrs.
Chylton, and then Frank and Enderby
made their very best pace to the station.

Good-bye, old fellow' said the young
banker, as his friend jumped into the train,
I look upon you as one of us now. Bound
to remind us once a week of the error of
our ways, and to be socially the good fellow
you always were. Nobody will be more
pleased to see you here than I," and with
a hearty hand-grip the two men parted.

CHAPTER VII.

A LEADING CITIZEN.

That the Reverend Jacob Jarrow considered
himself a leading star in Tunnleton society
is needless to say ; but no sky is known
which is not illuminated by more than one
planet. If the Reverend Jarrow, Rural
Dean, Rector of St. Mary's, &c, &c, was a
great ecclesiastical fact, in Tunnleton society
there were other social stars who arrogated
to the themselves quite as important a
position. General Maddox for instance,

chief of that little knot of retired officers
congregated at Tunnleton, a leading member
of the Tunnleton Club, and whom, from the
possession of a deliberate drawl and didactic
manner of speaking, had gradually bored
Tunnleton into the belief that he was a man
of profound information, constantly disputed
this position with Mr. Jarrow.

The general's military career had been
chiefly conducted from an office-stool ; he
had indicted despatches from a desk; he had
acquired, as men often have done, considerable
renown from that position, and on the
one occasion on which he had embarked
on active service he had not altogether
distinguished himself. His enemies said
coarsely, that "He made a devil of a mess of
that Barrapootah business." There could be
no doubt it was not a success, but we smooth
these things over pleasantly for some of our
heroes ; and promotion and a Cab. had been

the outcome of what Bill Maddox's detractors
alluded to as " a thundering good licking."


It would be difficult to persuade a member
of Parliament that he was not fit for the
part of prime minister. It is hard to persuade
a man that he cannot ride. All men
and women firmly believe they can write a
novel, if they take the trouble. A great
many men are firmly convinced they can
write a play, and no actor ever walked the
boards but was solemnly impressed with the
belief that he could act Hamlet.

Perhaps it is as well in the days of our
youth ; confidence in our own powers is a
mighty stimulus. It is very much better
than that lack of nerve and belief in themselves
which, singular to say, have characterised
so many great geniuses. But General
Maddox, his opportunities over and turned
of sixty, ought surely to have known that

he had failed to make his mark in this
world. Not a bit of it ! That grand old
warrior walked down to the Tunnleton Club
morning after morning, and fumed and
fretted, and fidgeted and moved the pins
stuck into the war-map, and pointed out,
Begad, sir, absurd mistakes that fellow's
making in " Afghanistan or Africa,
or wherever our particular little fight might
at that time be going on, and laid down
the law as if he were a Wellington, or a
Napoleon, or a Frederick the Great, or the
whole three rolled into one; and they
believed him — the public always do. It is
by no means the men who get the loaves
and fishes that do the real work, and I
fancy the recompense of our heroes of old
would be something like a florin in the
pound compared with what some of our
later generals have succeeded in wringing
from their hardly-taxed country.

VOL. I. II

General Maddox was emphatically a big
man in Tunnleton. He was possessed of
one of those slow, sonorous, measured
monotonous voices that from their steady
persistency wear down the most irascible
and energetic of speakers. We all know
what the fiery and irritable man is when
opposed to dull, phlegmatic obstinacy. He
is invariably worsted ; you might flare up,
blaze up like half a dozen volcanoes round
General Maddox's impassive head, only to
be met by that quiet, measured, maddening
monotone. What use was the irritable man
against this ? It was the angry waves of
the aegean lashing Salamis, and of course
the dull, impassioned rock got the better
of the breakers of the tideless sea.

Now between the Reverend Jacob Jarrow
and General Maddox there existed what
might be termed an armed neutrality. There
cannot be two kings, except in Brentford,

though even concerning that dual sovereignty
the legend is wondrously mythical-now
both the priest and soldier aspired to
the kingdom of Tunnleton, and, though
they were both no doubt people of very
considerable weight in the place, it could
hardly be said that either of them could
positively claim the sovereignty — take one
out of the way and either might have fairly
gripped the sceptre. As amongst the blind
the one-eyed man is king, so, lacking opposition,
the Reverend Jacob Jarrow or
General Maddox might have seated himself
on the throne without opposition : but as it
was it was a species of dual government.
Tunnleton indeed might oe described asunder
the control of a rule analogous to
that so beautifully described in the legend :

The prince bishop muttered a curse and a prayer
Which his double capacity hit to a nicety ;
His cleric or lay half induced him to swear,

While his episcopal moiety murmured Benedicite."
H 2

Yes, Tunnleton could say with justice,
that, if the Reverend Mr. Jarrow preached
to them, General Maddox swore a good deal
at them. That distinguished warrior, if
slow and deliberate in his utterances, could
garnish them with a strong expletive or two
on occasion, and with that splendid idea of
the political situation of the country, so
aptly conveyed in Mr. Grain's song,

"That the country was going to — he didn't know where;
But he felt that 'twas going though he didn't know when ;
But it was; and he didn't know why."

was wont to give the Tunnleton Club the
benefit of his extremely orthodox opinions in
somewhat unmeasured language. That the
service was going to the devil, in General
Maddox's eyes, was a matter of course. Nobody
ever met a retired general officer whoever
took any different view of it. It is
always the same thing : the veterans of the
Peninsula no doubt had that opinion of their

successors, and the Crimean men, in their
turn, hold a similar opinion of those who have
followed them — Laudatory tempore act.

It is always the same. Oratory died with
Pitt, Sheridan, and Burke; acting with
Kean, Kemble, and Macready. Still we
rub along, and, as far as Parliament goes,
can fairly say we may not talk so well, but
by the Lord we talk more.

As may be naturally supposed, the rector
and the general were, as a rule, antagonistic.
They might combine upon occasion, but for
the most part it was quite natural for
General Maddox to feel that it behoved him
to oppose either scheme or protege of the
Reverend Mr. Jarrow's. Just now he really
had his bristles very much up in opposition.

Mr. Lomax had been a considerable
favourite of Mrs. Maddox, had piped feeble
senseless little ballads in a feeble, tuneless
little voice at Mrs. Maddox's dreary little

teas. He had played lawn tennis and dispensed
muffins with an alacrity worthy of a
higher cause. These, poor young man, were
the germs of his popularity ; but there was
no getting over the case, he was popular,
and when you knock a popular favourite off
his pedestal you have to reckon with popular
opinion about the doing of it. It may very
easily be conceived, therefore, that General
Maddox took up the cudgels in behalf of the
discarded curate pretty strongly. He had
no cause, no reason to do so. Mr. Lomax
made no complaint of any kind against his
rector, and when he alluded to the rupture
of his engagement merely sjDoke of it as
something that had come to a conclusion in
the ordinary course of things. But it was
hardly to be supposed that General Maddox
was going to pass an affair of this kind over
as lightly as that. If a leading denizen of
Tunnleton had ventured to discharge either

a cook or a butler the general would have
had his say on the subject. But Mr. Lomax
was a leading fact in Tunnleton, a fashionable
young clergyman who filled St. Mary's
every Sunday afternoon. Why Mr. Jarrow
should break with him was a thing not easy
to understand.

"It is absurd, my dear," said the general
one morning; " I don't know his name, but
I hear Jarrow has already engaged a married
man in the place of young Lomax. We
know what that means — a poor, needy man
who is socially no use whatever. A young
woman, overflowing with children, and towards
whose impoverished circumstances weare
all delicately requested to minister. I
know what it means," continued the pompous
old officer, as he stroked his white
moustache; " we shall be all expected to
send them turkeys, sausages, port wine, &c.
You know, my dear, the utterly impecunious

man of that class who takes his place
amongst us. We can't do what we gladly
would do if we like him, double his salary
and have done with it. There is always an
undefined and indirect tax imposed upon us.
Somebody is always elevating his eyebrows
because you have not ministered to
poor Mrs. So-and-so ? s necessities. You have
to call, and see a dirty-faced drab of a
servant-girl's hands coming off black upon
your cards as you give them to her. A
couple of children screaming up the staircase,
and not a reliable chair to sit upon,
even if it is your good, or rather perhaps
evil, fortune to get in. No, no ; what we
require are unmarried curates, who can play
lawn-tennis and dance with the girls, and
afford a distant prospect of matrimony in the
back-ground."

The general was not altogether a bad sort
of man, but he still laboured under his old

military instincts, and could not quite divest
himself of the idea that he was General-commanding
in Tunnleton. He could do a
kindly action, and was a free-handed man,
but it must be in his own pompous despotic
fashion. It is probable that two more pompous
numskulls than the Reverend Jacob
Jarrow and General Maddox were never
leading lights in a community.

I am sure, my dear," interposed Mrs.
Maddox, li that nobody can be more sorry
to lose Mr. Lomax than I am ; but all you
say don't quite follow surely. The new
man may be married, but it does not quite
follow that he has a large family, and is
in such a state of pauperism as you have
so graphically depicted."

si Pooh! don't tell me! Curates who
marry are like subalterns ; they invariably
have a large family and nothing to feed
them on. When I married you, Mrs.

Maddox, I was on the verge of being made
a field-officer. And a curate has no more
business to marry than commit any other
crime, unless he sees his rectory at the end
of the twelvemonth. Young Lomax suited
us very well, and what the deuce made that
obstinate old fool Jarrow part with him I
can't say ! I shall give him a little bit of
my mind about it as soon as we meet."

But General Maddox knew very well in
his heart that that was sheer empty vapouring.
He was quite aware that the rector
stood no interference with his own affairs,
and this matter of a change of curate was
a thing most distinctly that could concern
nobody but himself and the gentleman who
was going to leave him. If Mr. Lomax had
no cause of complaint — nothing that he at
all events cared to appeal to public opinion
about — then it most decidedly was no business
of any one in Tunnleton. The general

and the rector had been at loggerheads too
often not to thoroughly gauge each other's
character, and General Maddox knew very
well that, whether wrong or whether right,
Mr. Jarrow was not the man to stand being
called to account about a private matter of
this description.

However, the general put on the rather
curly-brimmed hat that he usually affected,
slipped into his overcoat, drew on his dog-skin
gloves, and, taking his Malacca cane
in his hand, marched with a dignified gait
down to the Tunnleton Club. He had
digested the leaders in The Times, and it-behoved
him to acquaint the members of
that community what he thought of the
situation of the country. The General's
u By Jupiter!" or " By Jove, sir ! " boomed
forth in sonorous drawl, were deemed
oracular in the morning-room of that little
establishment ; and when he twirled his

moustache and exclaimed with unctuous
emphasis, ei If this rush of Radicalism is not
put down with a strong hand, by Jove, sir,
there will be an end to the monarchy, to
the House of Lords, and the Established
Church" the members shook their heads
solemnly.

CHAPTER VIII.

SHALL WE CALL ? "

Bessie Enderby was simply delighted when
she heard that her husband had got this
engagement at Tunnleton. She was a
sensible young woman, and knew very well
that it was perfectly imperative that Maurice
should obtain something to do at once.
She was accustomed to manage with narrow
means, and, though she had no accurate
knowledge of her husband's income, was
quite aware that it was very limited. Not

the girl at all to flinch from this, Bessie
Enderby could make bread and cheese goas
far as anybody, by the aid of a bright
smile and a clean tablecloth ; but the girl
promised to become a mother, and women
in that state get anxious about their nests,
as the birds do. She had hardly as yet,
not even Maurice himself, grasped the very
critical position in which they were placed ;
men never do realise, until the screw is
turned on them with steady but relentless
power, the reality of being deeply in debt.

The plunging into it is so easy, and, when
the time comes that creditors demand in
stern inexorable language their just dues,
the luckless delinquents are paralysed and
astounded, and, as the poet says :

Sorrows come not as single files, but in battalions."

If this is true of sorrows, it is painfully
more so of creditors; on the heels of the

baker come the butcher and the bootmaker.
The first peremptory dun is but the prelude
to the coming storm, and then comes the
tornado of summonses, writs, and the deluge.
Maurice Enderby was wilfully shutting his
eyes to these facts, although perfectly cognisant
of them ; as for his wife, she had a sort
of misty apprehension that something of this
kind might possibly happen. But she did
not, of course, know the extent of his
liabilities, and was quite sure that since she
had been at the helm of his affairs he had
at all events incurred no debts.

But who can gauge the extent of a man's
liabilities, or foretell what critical times may
bring to him ? Have we not all seen years like
'66, in which banks and large business houses
lay prostrate in the dust as the walls of
Jericho ? The blare of the trumpets that
prostrated the walls of the great city was
not more fatal than the whisper of suspicion

as regards the financial stability of the large
business houses. These years of storm and
impecuniosity come round periodically, and
then comes a struggle for existence. The
luckless creditor can no longer show mercy.
Like the shipwrecked mariner, he becomes
relentless in his demands for the necessaries
of life — meaning in his case money — to
avoid the bankruptcy which has overwhelmed
so many of his brethren. Stormy
times these financial crises ! fatal alike to
peer and peasant ! Never make the mistake
of believing that when the great landowners
or the great manufacturers are suffering
from one of these depressions, as constant
in the prosperity of a country as they are
in the reading of the barometer, it does
not extend to the lower classes. When the
money-makers have little to spend, it is
bad for those who have to work for their
money. A political agitator, whose profession

it is to live on the credulity of his
fellows, steps in and makes capital of such
a strained situation.

Bah ! it should be patent to the most
ordinary intelligence, that, when the big
employer of labour is harassed for money,
his employed' wages are likely to shorten,
and their number bd reduced both in mill
and factory. The less money that is made,
the less there is to be spent, as the tradespeople
in the agricultural districts have
learned to their bitter cost of late years.
Prosperous men who years ago ate venison
and pheasants are now contented with beans
and bacon, and the land goes out of cultivation.


There was much difference in the way
Maurice Enderby and his wife regarded
their new position. Maurice, sanguine, full
of health and energy, saw nothing but a
prosperous start before him, but Bessie knew

VOL. I. I

better ; already her mind was harassed with
the subject of ways and means. She understood
much better than her husband what
settling in a new home meant. She comprehended
in a way past his understanding
what hard work it was to make the housekeeping
money do, living quietly as they
did now, and in the position he was about to
assume at Tunnleton it would be, of course,
requisite to live in a certain fashion, and she
felt that it required all her management todo
things in the way Maurice liked, and preserve
a decent front before the world. Still
the girl knew it was no use flinching the
situation. If not Tunnleton it must be
somewhere else, if Maurice was ever to get
on in his profession it was time to begin.
You cannot, in these times at all events,
become a bishop without being a curate.
Thomas becket, it is true, arrived at the
dignity of archbishop and also his doom

without going through this preliminary, but
it is not given to the priests of the nineteenth
century to grasp the higher prizes of
the Church without doing their work in the
lower grades. A good way off even a living
at the present moment was Maurice Enderby,
and virulent Mr. Badger perpetually jogging
his elbow about that little unpaid account
for hacks and hunters.

Little account ! It is always playfully
called so, although perhaps every shilling
the luckless debtor has in the world would
not suffice to meet it.

And so it came to pass that everything was
settled between the Reverend. Jacob Jarrow
and Maurice Enderby, and amidst a halo of
sighs and meek lamentations Mr. Lorn ax departed
from Tunnleton, and the new curate
reigned in his stead. The advent of the
Reverend Maurice Enderby immediately
gave rise to that tremendous question that

invariably ruffles the surface of the stagnant
pool that constitutes provincial existence
when a strange tadpole appears amidst its
unruffled waters. Are we to call? Shall
we call ? Who has called ? Who are they ?
And , as may be naturally surmised, these
were points upon which General Maddox
had much to say — as to who General Maddox
was himself that was involved in the
darkest obscurity. About his family nobody
knew anything. His career was patent to
every one. He had begun life in the Company's
service, and worked his way up to
his present position not by distinguishing
himself in any way but simply by persistently
hanging on. He had married a
woman with some money, and that had
helped him on not a little, as money always
does help a man on in any vocation. There
are probably people innocent enough to
believe that the old East India Company's

service was non-purchase. But the initiated
know that in its own way money passed just
as freely as it did in the Queen's. Now the
general had a strong idea that he was one of
the safeguards of Tunnleton society. As
before said, he by no means approved of the
Eeverend Jacob Jarrow. He had not much
to say against him, but Mr. Jarrow was too
self-assertive to suit the general. He presumed
to have his own opinion and take up
his own line of conduct, and this alone
caused General Maddox invariably to differ
with the rector of St. Mary's. It was not
the thing or the idea so much, but if Mr.
Jarrow had started a fancy fair, a school-feast,
or what you will, it was quite enough
to exasperate the veteran. It was the
old story, both liked to be king of the
community they lived in ; and, when two
men hunger for the social sceptre, we all
know what comes of it. Bitter jealousy of

each other's proceedings, and what the one
calls black the other vows to be white, and
each angrily demands that his friends should
take his view of the question, and, as is the
case with weak-minded vacillating humanity,
they usually do so. But people who really
form their own opinion are so very limited
in this world, it is small wonder the general
and the priest had upon more than one
occasion divided the community into hostile
camps.

Neither Maurice nor his wife had ever
troubled their heads about any question of
this sort. And they settled down in the
small house that Maurice had selected with
considerably more anxiety about ways and
means than as to whether people would
take notice of them or not. It would have
amused Maurice immensely if he had known
that it was matter of much discussion
among the magnates of Tunnleton as to

whether he was to be taken up or not.
Tunnleton was to him a mere steppingstone
in the ladder of life. He had no
intention of staying there, nor did he look
forward to finding the drowsy old place
particularly amusing. It was simply employment
till something better might turnup.
Maurice Enderby must not be contemned
for taking such a prosaic view of
his calling. He was quite prepared to do
his duty thoroughly and honestly in the
life he had chosen, but a man, more
especially with any one dependent upon
him, cannot help putting the necessaries of
life prominently in the foreground in his
view of anything. Fanatics and prophets
of course cast all this to the winds, but
poor Maurice was only an ordinary clergyman,
wishing to do his duty honestly to
his flock, and at the same time to take care
of his wife and that little addition to the

family with which he was threatened. It
was all very well for Mahomet to depart
to the desert and live a bare and ascetic
existence ; but he made himself tolerably
fair compensation for those dolorous days,
if he only lived up to the precepts he laid
down to his followers. If he preached a
religion of fire and sword it can hardly be
said that he held out a future of much
asceticism to those who embraced his tenets.

H Four teas this afternoon, I declare,"
exclaimed General Maddox, u and yet there
are people who will have it that Tunnleton
is dull. I don't know what they would
have. Now, my dear, we've got to consider
what we are to do about these new
proteges of Jarrow's. Tunnleton will look
to us for guidance in this matter. Of course
if we take them up all Tunnleton will take
them up too."

ei Well, my dear," rejoined Mrs. Maddox,

"I think in his position as a clergyman of
the Church of England we must call on
Mr. Enderby and his wife."

I don't know," answered the general,
as he caressed his moustache. "Ever since
Jarrow made a fool of himself in the local
journals by those Verity Letters he has
considered himself one of the shining lights
of literature, and is apt to take up with
any one who has ever done a bit of scribbling.
Dash it all now, I used to write
to the papers myself when I was in India.
They didn't always put it in, but they did
sometimes, and I never gave myself the
airs about it that Jarrow does."

Well, he brings this young man here
as curate, and that I suppose of itself is
sufficient guarantee that they are people to
be called upon."

"Oh! I don't know at all. We shall
see. Remember, Emily, I don't want you

to be in a hurry about committing yourself.
Now, I'm off to the club to look at the
papers, and see what's doing."

Rather a bootless errand this last, as there
never was anything doing in Tunnleton,
except in the eyes of its infatuated inhabitants.


CHAPTER IX.

BRIDGE COURT.

Only some six or seven miles from Templeton,
and connected with it by rail, stood
the thriving go-ahead little town of Bul-step.
It was a contrast to its neighbour,
insomuch that it neither affected fashion
nor gave itself the airs of Tunnleton ; but
then, on the other hand, it went in a great
deal more for the fun of existence than the
more fashionable place. The Bulsted people
were, for the most part, engaged in business

of some sort or another. They worked
hard, turned their money quickly, and spent
it freely. They laughed at Tunnleton and
its affected grandeur, and enjoyed themselves
thoroughly in their own way with
no atom of pretence about it. They danced,
dined, or snatched a day for a gallop with
the harriers in the season as they best could.
It need scarcely be remarked that a little
town with all these sporting attributes had
its race-meeting. The Bulsted races, if
they had no extended reputation, were very
popular in the county. The magnates in
the vicinity usually filled their houses for
the meeting. The leading people in the
town did the same. There was always a
good deal of lunching, a considerable amount
of good fellowship, and very decent sport
to be seen in the two days' racing that took
place in the early spring. It consisted
chiefly of cross-country events, although it

boasted a flat race-course as well. You
might not see there the great equine celebrities
of the year, but the Open Chase, the
Hunt Steeple-chase, and the Gone-away
Plate always evoked much local enthusiasm.

Standing somewhere about half-way between
Tunnleton and Bulsted was Bridge
Court, a grand old country house, whose
quaint gables dated from the days of Elizabeth.


Sir John Balders was the very type of a
jovial fox-hunting squire. In his youth he
had been looked upon as a fairish man in
the shires ; but free living and increasing
years had told their tale ; neither Sir John's
nerve nor weight admitted of his attempting
to ride to hounds now. But, on a stout cob,
he enjoyed meeting his friends at the cover-side
as much as in days of yore. Therewith
a big cigar, a good story or two, and a
kindly word and jest for every one, Sir

John was quite in his element ; the most
popular man in the hunt. If they found
and really went away, the baronet jogged
placidly home to luncheon; otherwise he
would trot about, gossiping with his old
friends, and smoking incessantly half the
day. He had never been a racing man,
insomuch as he had never kept racehorses,
or indulged in any gambling over them ;
but he had been very fond of Epsom, Ascot,
and Newmarket, in his day, limiting himself
to an occasional wager on his fancy, but
thoroughly enjoying a good race, and delighting
to see a good horse win without its
benefiting him a shilling. It was not likely
that Sir John would neglect to fill his house
for the Bulsted races, and amongst his guests
this particular year happened to be Bob
Grafton.

Grafton's father had been an old friend of
Sir John's, and Bob had known the baronet

from his schoolboy days ; had indeed stayed
at Bridge Court many a time before.

About this particular Spring Bulsted Meeting
it is not necessary to say much. It went
off with its usual eclat, and it occurred to
some two or three of Sir John's guests, who
had lingered on for an extra day or two,
that the best thing they could do to get
through a keen bright March afternoon was
to take a stretch into Tunnleton, and amongst
the party was Bob Grafton. That gentleman
had heard no more of Maurice Enderby
since he had parted with him at Scarborough.
He had often wondered what had become of
his old friend, and how he and his pretty
little wife were getting on ; but men drift
apart in this world, and unless they belong
to the same clubs, or happen to mix in the
same set, lose sight of each other for indefinite
periods. He little thought, when
lie started with two or three other men, and

Katie and Florence Balders, for that walk
to Tunnleton, that he should meet the very
man of whom he had so often thought of
late, and the very strange question that man
was to put to him.

A good bitter forester, characteristic of
the unpleasantness month in the year ; a wind
that brought colour to the girls' noses, and
tears to their eyes, irritation to the men's
throats, and a general perversity all round ;
that delightfully disgusting wind concerning
which Kingsley penned his terribly sarcastic
satire ; about which nothing can be relied
upon, except that it does

Madden into hunger every angry pike ; "

pikes of the betting-ring, too, about this
time more voracious than ever — a dead
season just over, during which the miserable
backer had ceased to dangle in sight of
their insatiate maw. Whistling round the
corners ; whistling through the windows ;

sending the smoke back again clown the
chimneys, in manner most irreverent and
disgusting ; spinning the chimney-cowls
round and round, as if in ironical derision
of any such imbecile attempt to control its
vagaries, taking them off at times, as it did
the hats of the passers-by.

With shrill shrieks of boisterous laughter
at all endeavours to control or play with it,
screaming wildly in the midnight, and smiling
out in the noontide sun ; with an affectation
of being in the opposite quarter, this
dreadful old foe of humanity was frolicking
about in all the March exuberance of his
ironical nature, as Bob Grafton and his
companions doggedly drove their ways
through his teeth into Tunnleton.

Beastly day, Miss Balders," exclaimed
Grafton, as they turned into the queer comparatively
sheltered Tunnleton promenade.
fc( All deuced fine, you know ! but a fellow

VOL. I. K

feels quite relieved to find his front teeth
left in his head after such a terrible spin as
we have had."

"Yes, it is not nice," rejoined Katie
Balders, "and I am not at all sorry the
hounds met the other side of the county
this morning. No doubt you do at times
get a rattling run in this sort of weather,
but it is very unpleasant to hang about in ;
and you do that much more often than not.
Of course, the weather don't matter when
you are going, but it makes a considerable
difference when you are loitering round
the cover-side."

Of course it does," rejoined Grafton,
all poets are frauds; which means they
claim poetical licence — that is, the right to
treat any subject from their own point
of view ; generally being what suits their
lines. There's Kingsley, for instance, should
have written —

Bitter black north-easter,
Jove ! ain't yon a twister ? ' '

but then, you see, he's a poet, and has
to conform to the rules of his fraudulent
craft."

Twister and easter are all very well, and
very expressive ; but there's no doubt, critically
speaking, they don't exactly rhyme."

However, hang the forester ! Sheltered
here by the shops on both sides, and
the old tumble-down houses of the early
era of this century, we are quit of the
north-east wind for a little. But, good
heavens ! Maurice Enderby, as I live !
You must excuse me for a moment ; he's
one of my oldest pals; and talk to him,
and ask him what he's dome:, I really
must."

And, so saying, Grafton dashed across

the promenade and put his hand on the

shoulder of a man who was idly looking
kat

some photographs in the library window.


Maurice started and turned round, and
his face lit up when he saw who it was
that had accosted him.

"My dear boy," he exclaimed, u you're
just the very man of all others I wished
to see. However, first and foremost, how
are you ? and what brought you here ? "

Bulsted races," rejoined Grafton, "as
for how I am, now what is the use of
asking. When you see a fellow rollicking
about in a bitter forester in March, it's
absurd to suppose that there is anything
the matter with him. Now it is my turn ;
first, how is Mrs. Enderby ? secondly, in
the words of the poet :

Why comes he hence, what doth he here ? "

"Bessie is very well, thanks, while, as
for me, I have accepted the post of curate
to the Eeverend Mr. Jarrow, Rector of St.

Mary's, Tunnleton, and am now duly installed
as a subordinate amongst the ecclesiastical
hierarchy of this town. 5 '

Well, old fellow, I suppose I ought to
congratulate you ; you were anxious to get
something of the sort, and, though it's a
dullish little place, it is not an out-of-the-way
one."

But where are you staying?" inquired
Maurice. "I can't give you an elaborate
dinner, but if you can be content with a
bit of fish, a cut of a joint, and a hearty
welcome, we shall be more than glad to see
you."

Very sorry, indeed, old man, but I
can't. A good talk and a smoke with you,
and anything you choose to give me to
eat, would be quite good enough for this
child. But I am staying for the week at
Bridge Court; I walked in to-day with a
party from there, and must walk out again

with them to dinner. But you said I was
the very man you wanted to see. What
help can I be to you? If it's a question
of money, Maurice," he continued, lowering
his tone, " don't hesitate to speak out.
I'll do what I can."

No, no, it's nothing of that sort,
although I'm not overburdened with coin
of the realm. I'm not driven to ask help
of my friends so far. I want you to explain
to me what is at present an resolvable
conundrum. You are learned in all things
racing and I am not. You told me a good
deal at Scarborough about my wife's uncle,
the Reverend John Madingley. Surely, asa
clergyman, he don't keep racehorses ? "

u Not keep racehorses ! What, Parson
Madingley ! Why, bless your soul, Maurice,
he's had a few horses in training for the
last thirty or forty years. As I told you
before, there was a time when he was a

great frequenter of the race-course, but he
got remonstrated with rather seriously by
his bishop, and since that has seldom been
seen on one. He was never, for all I've
heard, a man who bet or in the least gambled
about the thing. The few he had
were always of his own breeding, and he
had them trained, and ran them, from
sheer love of sport."

But I never remember to have seen
his name in the racing returns," said
Maurice.

u No ; of course you wouldn't," returned
the other ; " although they were a good
deal laxer about those things when he
began, still, the Rev. John Madingley's
this, that, or the other would not have
looked well in the papers. He raced, like
many other people, under an assumed name.
His horses always ran as Mr. Brooks's. But
why are you so curious about his turf

career ? It's not much in your line,
surely ? "

But it so happens just now it is. Don't
you remember my telling you that we
were rather in hopes of a wedding-present
from him ? Well, it has come, and no
doubt is a tolerably handsome one ; the
only thing is that it has taken a form quite
unintelligible to us."

"Let's hear what it is," replied Grafton;
it is so very possible that what looks like
Dutch to you may be A, B, C to mea

Well, my wife's uncle writes word to
her congratulating her on her marriage,
and saying that his wedding-gift to her is
this — she is to go halves with him in the
most promising yearling he ever had."

I tell you what, old man, that's a thing
may be worth a good deal of money. The
Reverend John knows i a hawk from a
hand-saw,' and has turned out a flyer or

two from those little paddocks of his in
his time, Now what's its name ? Has it
got a name or is it not yet christened ? "

Oh, yes, it has got a name It's a
filly called ' The Wandering Nun.' "

I know ; by the Hermit, out of Restless.
Why she's talked about as one of
the coming cracks of this year. She is
alluded to a good deal in racing circles.
As you know, all these promising young
things are very deceptive. Like the infant
phenomenons amongst ourselves, they go
wrong in their legs, they go wrong in their
temper, and, after all, the one virtue they
seem to penelope turns out to be only a
precocity which bitterly disappoints those
who believe in it. Still, Maurice, though
I recommend you not to be too sanguine,
there are plenty of people who would jump
at being in your shoes and standing in
with the pick of Parson Madingley's basket.

And now I must say good-bye ; my party
threw out signals last time they passed
significant that the blue-peter is at the fore.
I suppose anywhere in Tunnleton will find
you. Wherever your house may be here
they are bound to know at the post-office."

4, Belton Terrace is my address. If
anything brings you here again mind you
come and look me up. And now, goodbye,"
and, with a nod and a handgrip, the
two men separated.

CHAPTER X.

THE GENERALS TAKE UMBRAGE.

Maurice Enderby as he walked home revolved
in his mind what Bob Grafton had
told him. He did not know much about
racing, but the merest neophyte could understand
that to be halves in the winnings of a
promising filly might run in time to a considerable
amount of money. He was quite
aware of the home truths that Grafton had
set before him ; young stock, for which almost
fabulous prices have been paid constantly,

never realise the expectations formed
about them. This wedding gift of John
Madingley's he quite understood might turnout
a veritable Dead Sea apple. Sanguine
as the Reverend John was about it at present,
it might fulfil the destiny of many another
high-bred horse, whose original owners
dreamed of Derby s, Oaks, and Legers falling
to their prowess, but whose humble career
terminated in a hansom cab. One thing
flashed across Maurice Enderby. Should he
dazzle his wife with a glimpse of the possible
El Dorado that lay before them, or adhere
to his original opinion that it might by good
luck represent two or three hundred pounds,
but was much more likely to result in a
cheque for thirty or forty ? No ! he thought,
I'll say nothing about it ; poor girl ! she is
facing our narrow means with the greatest
pluck — woman-like she would build a good
deal upon this dubious future ; better she

should exult in the surprise than suffer the
anguish of the disappointment.

By this time he had arrived at his own
door, and, passing upstairs to the drawing-room,
said cheerily as he entered it —

"Now, Bessie, if you have got a cup of
tea for me give it to me and tell me what you
have been about the whole afternoon."

"Not very much; General Maddox and
his wife called, but, Maurice, I really cannot
stand this; the insufferable way in which
they patronise me, and the pompous arrogance
with which they promised ' to do their
best to make things pleasant for us ' in
Tunnleton, are really more than I can put
up with. Did General Maddox ever distinguish
himself in any way that entitles him
to give himself all these airs ? "

"Distinguish himself!" said Maurice,
old Maddox did a tranquil round of staff
and garrison duty for thirty odd years in the

East. He never had but one active command,
so I hear ; it wasn't a very big thing,
but a precious mess he made of it. One
thing is certain, there were neither medals
nor C.B.s distributed for his little campaign."


u Then what does he take such very high
ground about ? "

"It's the old story, Bessie ; Maddox, who
is nobody, married a woman with a bit of
money, and between his own pounds and
what she brought him he is now a well-to-do
man ; indeed in Tunnleton he passes for more
than that, is looked upon as wealthy. You
can understand that an Anglo-Indian who
has passed his life as a Jack-in-office cannot
forego the custom of patronage. Here he is
somebody, and aspires to be quite a leading
magnate. Like the Tunnleton people generally,
he believes the little place to be one
of the world's centre's, and further quite

believes that he is one of its dictators. A
case of Alcibiades' dog, my dear."

"I understand. I'm afraid in my capacity
of the curate's wife I shall have to be civil,
but I don't think I shall ever like either
General or Mrs. Maddox,"

Not the slightest necessity you should ;
we must be civil to people who take the
trouble to call on us, but there's no necessity
for being intimate with them; as far as I
have seen there is an amount of decorous
dulness pervading the society of this place
that must be endured, though it cannot be
kicked against."

• c Ah, well, never mind, Maurice ; society
is a very give-and-take game, and I have an
idea that without the dull people it wouldn't
knead together quite so pleasantly; clever
men and women are a little given to want
the whole platform to themselves. I once
met a man with a great reputation as a

conversationalist ; he certainly was very
amusing," continued Bessie, laughing; " he
told some capital stories, and his remarks
were brilliant and witty ; but it was a monologue
entertainment, very amusing ior once,
but it would become a little tiresome on
repetition."

We must make the best of things for the
present ; my intention is to stick to Tunnel
till a more favourable opportunity offers
itself ; if the place is a little dull, it is, at all
events, a very fair curacy , and I'm well in
the way to hear of anything better. Your
uncle and god-father, John Madingley,
might perhaps give me a lift. Grafton told
me that he was a very well-known man and
on intimate terms with all sorts of swells.
Your many-acred men and hereditary legislators
constantly hold lots of Church patronage
at their disposal, and I imagine that your
uncle knows plenty of people of that sort."

il I'm sure I can't say' rejoined Bessie ;
u I haven't seen him since I was a little
girl, but 1 am aware that he is a very well-known
man."

Yes ; and, judging from what Grafton
told me, an excessively popular one ; he
couldn't do much for me just now, but ina
short time it might be in his power to do
us a good turn."

By this time Maurice had been duly
elected a member of the Tunnleton Club,
and at once made the mistake common to
most young men, he presumed to have
opinions of his own. Prudent young men
do not indulge in such luxuries,, and perhaps
get on better in consequence ; but the mere
fact of his marriage has already shown that
Maurice was neither prudent nor calculating.
There were a good many retired warriors
at the Tunnleton Club, veterans by compulsion,
playing the role of Cincinnatus,

vol. I. L

embryo leaders of men, whom the present
military system had precluded from blossoming
into Hannibal and Napoleons ; but it
was not to be supposed that for one moment
caused them to doubt their capabilities upon
campaigns in any part of the world ; and
these perforce idle warriors laid down the
law with much vehemence, not to say
violence.

Now, if there is one thing that the public
are, as a rule, ignorant of, it is geography ;
we don't usually know much about our
own country, but when it comes to foreign
climes a man's knowledge is generally
limited to such particular places as he has
visited. Maurice Enderby had committed
the unpardonable mistake of presuming to
correct a trifling geographical error of some
few thousand miles that two or three of
these great authorities had fallen into over
one of the numerous out-of-the-way wars

that France and ourselves have always on
our hands ; as for General Maddox he could
scarcely believe his ears ! to be contradicted
upon any military point by a civilian was
in his eyes a gross impertinence, but, when
that civilian was a parson to boot, it seemed
almost incredible. From that out General
Maddox and his great friend General Praun
came to the conclusion that the Reverend
Maurice Enderby was a conceited young
prig.

"Wants taking down a peg or two,
Praun ; and I'll tell you what," continued
General Maddox, speaking in his usual
slow, deliberate tones, " I shall do it.
I'm not going to be put to rights by a
whipper-snapper curate.

Most disrespectful a young man like

that venturing to differ from his seniors ! "

and, mumbling something about it's being
L 2

subversive of all order, discipline, and the
ties of society, General Praun growled himself
out of the club.

Much given to taking the chair at all
sorts of meetings was General Praun. He
dearly loved being in the chair, and no man
more delighted in the sound of his own
voice ; that was the real secret of his being
so continually named as chairman of such
meetings, it afforded him the opportunity
of firing off a speech or two. He never had
much to say, nor did he say it particularly
well ; but nothing would ever convince a
man with a penchant for speech-making
that he was not an orator, so that almost
from the very beginning Maurice Enderby
had contrived to offend two men who were
prominent actors in the social life of Tunnel
however small their position might be
in the world generally. A small thing this,
but it had a curious effect upon the fortunes

of Maurice Enderby, as the sequel
will show.

Two very prominent sections of society
at Tunnleton were the clergy and that
military hierarchy of which I have already
spoken. They may not like each other,
in short they very often do not, but still
there is a camaraderie about the service
which makes them hang* together even
after their swords have been hung upon
the walls, and their uniforms become the
property of the Hebrew.

Maurice, unluckily for himself, not only
continued to frequent the club, but happened
to be a Liberal in politics. He more
than once took up the cudgels in behalf of
that party, and, as he possessed a clear
logical mind, more than once left the
veterans, whose arguments consisted of
mere blatant asseveration, in a quagmire
of confusion, reducing them indeed to wrathful

silence, which relieved itself only by
snorts of indignation. These men regarded
society pretty much as a garrison, and
deemed they were entitled to treat it as
despotically as they had been wont to
rule their regiments ; old Indians especially
are apt to forget they are no longer
monarchs of the social jungle, and cannot
resist roaring as they were wont to roar,
albeit their voice has lost authority.

It is bitter in the mouth when the man
who has been a satrap at Bangalore or
Poona discovers he is a nobody in London ;
and it is even worse for his feminine belongings.
I was once made piteous plaint
to by a woman on this very subject. Her
husband had been Governor in one of
our numerous dependencies, but the rule
came to an end and his glories departed.

It is a cruel change," she said; " last
year I drove my own carriage, and was the

leading lady in the island, now I go about in
hack cabs, and am nobody."

A tall, good-looking young curate, with
radical tendencies, and the audacity to express
his opinions, was such an anomaly in
Tunnleton that the community stood aghast,
but there was no denying that Maurice
Enderby buckled down steadily and conscientiously
to his work in the pulpit ; even
those most prejudiced against him were
fain to confess he was quite the equal of
Lomax, and that his discourses had far more
stuff in them ; one point, it was true, the
feminine part of his congregation still deemed
to his detriment — he was married.

Maurice Enderby was going through a new
experience. He was discovering that in the
mctlee of life he had exposed himself to his
enemies when he took unto himself a wife.
But a clever or vindictive man has but to bide
his opportunity over such attacks, and remember

that it is a simple matter of time to nail
his adversaries to the barn-door in their turn
as keepers crucify the vermin they destroy.
Neither man nor woman ever had a record
in which retribution was not practicable,
and, though Maurice's profession to a great
extent tied his hands, it might not do those
of his friends. Bob Grafton, for instance,
was likely to be very unscrupulous and energetic
in reprisal, and with little reverence
for generals, senators, or any one else, however
distinguished, with the exception of a
successful owner of race-horses ; no man
more likely to make things unpleasant for
the notabilities of Tunnleton all round than
Grafton : a shrewd man of the world, with a
certain command of money and men.

CHAPTER XL

Time TORKESLYS.

It was about a fortnight after he had met
Bob Grafton that Maurice End or by sat
moodily smoking in his little dining-room.
The morning had brought a threatening
letter from Badger, who menaced all the
pains and penalties if not immediately
mollified by something on account. Badger's
threats if pushed to extremity Maurice knew
might utterly ruin him in his profession.

The young man was grit to the backbone
— a shrewd clever fellow with plenty
of capacity for work in him. If he
smoked somewhat moodily to - night, it
must not be thought that it was the
tobacco of despair with which, conjoined
with copious draughts of alcohol and
water, men stifle unpleasant circumstances.
Far from it. He had a very uneasy
corner in his life to turn, and he was
thinking all he knew how best to compass it.
There was no more money to be made as
yet in his profession, let him work as hard
as he would at it. Do not misunderstand
me and think that Maurice Enderby was
anything but a thorough, conscientious, hardworking
man in his calling, but a clergyman
may wish that the loaves and fishes could be
multiplied by extra work when he has others
depending on him, even when conscientiously

discharging the duties of his trust. It
is a profession, especially in its early stages,
at which it is difficult to supplement the
work with advantage to oneself. The only
groove that occurred to Maurice was literature.
Men of his cloth, he knew, had made
much money by their pens, not perhaps in
the first instance, but who at the bottom of
the ladder does ? yet in time their income
from literature has far exceeded that from
their Church preferment,

Yes, he would have a shy at that ; there was
no reason he should not spoil paper for two or
three hours an evening. If nothing came of
it, it was preferable to gloomy reflection, and
at present he saw nothing better to turn his
hand to, and it was part of his creed both asa
Christian and a man to take such work as
came to him. His rector, too, Mr. Jarrow,
could probably be of some use to him in this
respect; but in this Maurice showed much

worldly innocence. The Reverend Jarrow
was a distinguished litterateur only in his
own estimation, and that of a limited circle
of Tunnleton friends, but the man's overweening
vanity would never permit him to
admit that he was not an acknowledged
literary star in the metropolis itself, and
Maurice, though quite conscious the rector
was possessor of no great talent in that respect,
thought it quite probable that from his
clerical position he commanded some influence
amongst the more serious magazines.
Not the man to undeceive him on that point
is the Reverend Jarrow, but likely to foster
false hopes and be profuse in his profession
of assistance; likely again to be severely
critical and disparaging when such manuscript
as was entrusted to him was rejected,
or fulsomely patronizing should it achieve a
success; but all this is mercifully hidden
from Maurice's vision as yet as from that of

many another aspirant to literary laurels
whose toilsome past would never be trod
were he conscious of how stony the commencement
of that way was.

Things, too, were not altogether pleasant
for the curate and his wife in Tunnleton.
One of the most redoubtable families in the
place were the Torkeslys. It was not by
birth or position they had made themselves
prominent in the place, but by their number
and volubility. It was always said that
Colonel Torkesly really did not, within one
or two, know how many daughters he had.
They pervaded Tunnleton ; it was impossible
to go out in Tunnleton without meeting a
Torkesly, and to meet a Torkesly meant to
hear gossip of some kind. Rumours existed
that the family had talked themselves out of
more than one such city of refuge. The
new curate was safe game to fly at, for the
Torkeslys could put the curb on their

tongues when they deemed the quarry too
strong on the wing ; but Maurice Enderby
and his wife had responded coldly to the
enthusiastic gush of that family when they
had called ; and the Torkeslys, whose life
was spent in a struggle to assert their
dignity, invariably resented their overtures
not being met with equal warmth. People
usually do, and yet it would be a weary
world if we were forced to take to our
bosoms every one with whom we chanced to
make acquaintance: better to stand the
whole gamut of proud, stand-off, haughty,
no-manners, than sell ourselves body and
soul to the vulgarians.

Yet the Philistines rule the social world,
for the most part grovelling before Dagon
and the flesh-pots, but consoling themselves
by spitting at those not privileged to set
foot within the outer gate of Dagon's
temple.

Now, nobody knew anything about the
Enderbys, who they were or where they
came from— much exercised on the point
of who Mrs. Enderby was ; it is always the
lady about whose antecedents the community
are most disturbed, and, even if
they had discovered that Mrs. Enderby was
the niece of John Madingley, that fact
would have conveyed no information to
their minds. In London or the shires orin
the county of the Ridings John Making
name was well known. Amongst the
lovers of horse and hound, his name
had been a household word in the days
of his youth, and amidst the votaries of
the turf the marvellous successes achieved
by his small stud were often talked of.
Madingley was no bettor ; he ran his horses
horses, bear it in mind, invariably of his
own breeding — from sheer love of sport,
and, though as a younger man lie undoubtedly

backed them for a modest stake,
during these latter years he had never either
done that or even witnessed their performances.
He was a good specimen of a type
now pretty well extinct. With the famous
Devonshire u passion " who but so lately
left us, the last of this famous gathering of
black-coated sportsmen may be considered
to have finally closed. They were men of
another age — good parish priests in their
way, usually with comfortable private incomes
of their own, which enabled them to
help their poorer parishioners substantially,
and their admonitions and advice generally
were practised. The new generation would
shudder at these proceedings, and profess
they could entertain no respect for clergymen
who lived such lives. Perhaps not, but
the round of civilisation is a conundrum.
Fifty years ago our ancestors, aye, the
nobility and dandies of the London world,

dined at what were designated as " '
attended prize-fights, and were
addicted to cockfighting. They drank more
wine than was good for them, and we of
the present day doubtless think they were
coarse in their manners ; on the contrary,
I believe that they were much more polished
in manner than ourselves ; they certainly
were more particular in their manner with
regard to ladies and also in dress. There
was a time when to smoke in the Row
would have been deemed the acme of bad
taste ; in the free-and-easy days we live into
leave a cloud of smoke behind you in a
fashionable promenade is a bagatelle, to
enter a drawing-room reeking of tobacco
an every day occurrence. All fashion, you
say : men reeked of port wine in the early
part of the century as they reek of tobacco
in the present time.

Maurice Enderby himself had literally
VOL. i. M

no other knowledge of the Eeverend John
Madingley than he had gathered from Bob
Grafton. Bessie knew no more of her uncle
than that he was a great sportsman, a
wealthy man, and childless ; and after he
had made up his mind to try his hand at
literature Maurice fell to musing — when he
had obtained his title to orders and had been
ordained priest whether John Madingley
could not be induced to assist him to some
small piece of preferment. He did not like
Tunnleton, nor apparently did Tunnleton
like him ; but that did not so much matter ;
he was young, strong, and at all events
could see an end of life in Tunnleton. Two
years he was bound to complete here, that
was requisite as a passport to ordination,
and, like it or dislike it, Bessie and he had —
as he muttered — to worry through that in
some way.

Then he thought of the old halcyon days

when he had first met Bessie, and wandered
with her through the shady glades of the Clipperton
Woods and finally told her his love-story
; the undisguised indignation of Mrs.
Marigold when she discovered that Maurice
proposed to marry her governess instead of
her second daughter. Dear Mrs. Marigold
had her quiver full of these blessings, and
like a wise matron, knowing that her
daughters were but slenderly dowered,
deemed it quite admissible to shift the
responsibility of taking charge of them onto
any eligible young man who might
frequent her sunny villa on the banks of
the Thames. She had deemed Maurice
Enderby a much greater catch than he
really was, thought she saw a penchant on
his part for Laura, her second, and had
considered the whole thing would do very
well, and when that young gentleman in

his usual insouciant manner informed her
M 2

of his engagement to Bessie Madingley, as
the good lady expressed it afterwards, " you
might have knocked her down with a
feather," — one of those oft-quoted illustrations
for which there is no historical
warrant.

But, if she might have been knocked down
with a feather, she recovered herself with
marvellous alacrity, and lost no time in
giving Miss Madingley her cone, both her
adieux and congratulations bearing an unmistakable
tinge of acidity. But Bessie
was happy, and all smiles and laughter, in
spite of the ill concealed bitterness with
which her employer bade her farewell.

It mattered little after all — so thought
Maurice at the time ; but the world is small,
the venom of an angry woman's tongue goes
far, and is hard at times to contradict. Mrs.
Marigold was neither sparing nor particularly
scrupulous concerning the truth with regard

to her late governess. Bessie, indeed, had
always been a somewhat independent young
woman. She had a slender income of her
own, very slender it was true, but enough
to make the fact of her losing a situation no
matter of immediate dismay — and then
Maurice told her she was to go out in the
world no more, but become his wife as soon
as they could get matters arranged. Yes,
it had all been very sweet, those days of
courtship and honeymoon, but he was face
to face with the consequences of matrimony
now; a small Enderby would be shortly
added to the family circle, which meant a
considerably additional expenditure. Maurice
sent heavy clouds of smoke from his
brule-gneule, as he thought over this, and the
very slender balance there was lying at his
banker's. Yes, there was no doubt he must
at once hit on some plan to supplement his
income.

So far the Rev. Jacob Jarrow was very
well satisfied with his new curate : if Maurice
was a little argumentative and self-assertion
at the club, he had the good sense to
hold his tongue before his rector. He had
some idea of discipline, and conceived that
he was bound, at all events at present, to
conform to the views of his superior in his
profession, but when he found himself upon
neutral ground, and upon subjects not ecclesiastical,
he looked upon it that he had as
much right to his opinion as any one else.
Fatal mistake ! as if any one can afford
opinions of his own at the outset of his
career. When your foot is fairly on the
ladder it is time enough to air your opinions.

Maurice, poor fellow, had not as yet quite
grasped that fact in social ethics, a want of
knowledge of which is productive of a harvest
of thistles, as a rule, to the luckless
wight ignorant of the fact.

CHAPTER XII.

FINANCIAL TROUBLES.

The storm-clouds are gathering fast round
Maurice Enderby's head. Badger of Cambridge
is showering threatening missives and
threats of denunciation to every one, from
the University Dons to the bench of Bishops,
if that account of his be not speedily settled.
The butchers' and bakers' bills are slowly but
surely creeping into arrears, and money somehow
seems to be waxing scarcer and scarcer.
Once get a little behind-hand with the world

and the first discovery one makes is that
there are only eighteen shillings in a sovereign.
Bessie, too, is unable to get about
to see after things herself as well as usual ;
Maurice has no idea of grappling with the
tradespeople, and therefore the probability
is that his housekeeping is managed on
a somewhat thriftless scale. His literary
schemes, so far, have been profitless ; he has
written more than one thoughtful article
which he had submitted to his rector, which
he had honestly deemed to have good stuff
in it, although carefully bearing in mind the
pride an author is apt to take in his own
bantlings. The Reverend Jacob, with all
the proud pre-eminence of the man who has
figured in print, has pronounced them in a
patronising manner " by no means bad, sir ;
very creditable to a young man fleshing his
maiden pen : " has taken charge of them,
and lias promised to submit them to the

editors of some of the heavy artillery reviews,
with whom the rector gives Maurice
vaguely to understand that he is upon more
or less intimate terms ; in reality, Maurice
would have had every bit as good a chance
had he quietly dropped it into the post-office
on his own account, Mr. Jarrow's name
being no more known to the Jupiter s who
swayed the destinies of these periodicals
than Maurice's himself. Editors may — or
may not — read the effusions of unknown
contributors ; it is too often a search for the
grain of corn in the bushel of chaff, and
must consequently depend upon their time,
patience, or lack of material ; but most
educated people think they could write a
magazine article if they tried.

Tunnleton, too, generally was planting
its darts in Maurice Enderby. Pin-pricks, if
you like ; it is not the banderillos that kill
the bull, but they goad him to madness ;

and so it was with poor Maurice; accustomed
to hold his head amongst the best
men of his college, and with an acknowledged
good head-piece, Maurice was fearless,
frank, and out-spoken in his opinions ; he
rather pooh-poohed and laughed at Tunnel
old-world notions, and Tunnleton fiercely
resented that one whom they designated
a mere unknown, penniless curate," should
take this tone with them. He was stuck-up,
said Tunnleton, and must be made to recognise
his proper position. He ought to be
very grateful for being taken any notice of ;
but Maurice Enderby utterly declined to be
patronized, he accepted such attentions as
were bestowed upon him as if perfectly his
due, treated the elite of Tunnleton with
courtesy, but completely as though he was
their equal, and made not the slightest
bones in differing from General Maddox,
General Praun, or any of the other pillars

of the community, upon any subject whatever
; a shrewd, clever young fellow,
thoroughly well-read, and perfectly conversant
with most of the leading topics of
the day, he was a terrible thorn in the side
of most of the veterans of the club. The
military experiences of Generals Maddox
and Praun, for instance, were somewhat
antiquated; Maurice had been a member
of the University Volunteer Corps, and
consequently his knowledge of the present
system of drill far exceeded that of those
gallant old officers.

In these days tip interest in things military
wonderfully exceeds that of thirty years
ago. Before the Crimean war it may be
doubted whether much more was known
concerning soldiers than that they all wore
red, had rather good bands, gave rather
good dinners, and, the young ladies would
add, were as a rule good waltzers. But the

campaign of the Chersonese changed all
that. For the first time the vivid pens of
Special Correspondents brought the daily
doings of the soldiers under the eyes of their
countrymen. Maps of the famous Black Sea
peninsula were published by the thousands,
and the redoubts of the Malakoff andMamelon,
the whereabouts of Eupatoria and Batch
Serai, were as accurately known to hundreds
of civilians as to the veteran warriors whose
swords were hanging on the walls ; indeed,
judging by the joke of u take care of Down"
probably better than by those on the spot.
Then came the great Volunteer movement. A
knowledge of military science spread rapidly.
No men are more conservative as a rule than
soldiers, and the heroes of the Sikh campaign,
who won their spurs long before
the appearance of arms of precision, would
doubtless deride any opinion on military
matters expressed by a civilian.

I cannot help smiling sometimes when I
hear my confreres beguiled into discussing
the London campaign or the late war in
Zululand with one of these enthusiastic
volunteers. It is the old sabreur unexpectedly
entangled with the rising swordsman.
It is almost pitiful to see the veteran
trying to shake off his antagonist, who
has all the best military reviews and journals
at his fingers' ends, and has studied
the maps till he knows them by heart, can
name all the strong positions and the
number of miles they are apart glibly, withall
the pros and cons for and against the
outcome of the campaign. I know but little
of the science of war ; our latest battles only
show that as far as formation goes we are
just where the grand old Romans were,
but we are certainly far improved in our
weapons of destruction. But Napoleon's
great dictum still holds true, and the greatest

general is he who makes the fewest mistakes.
The majority of the great battles of
the world have been won by downright
flukes. None more conspicuously so than
Marengo, where little Kleber's wild charge

saved Napoleon. If Kleber had not been tired


of doing nothing, and if the Austrians had

not exposed their flank and been stricken with
panic, Marengo would have ended very differently.
The conqueror of Europe might
have been checked at the beginning of his
career and shot for failure by the French
Directory. Very apt to deal promptly with
their military and naval leaders these republics,
from the relentless sentences of the
City of the Violet Crown down to those of her
modern prototype, Lutetia. Even our own
steady, even pulsed Anglo-saxon race could
steel their hearts to shooting an admiral in
the case of Byng, because he had failed to
understand that under anv circumstances an

Englishman must fight is the dogged
opinion of his nation.

I am wandering away, apparently, from
my story, but it must be borne in mind
that, well-known as these little historiettes
may be, they were anything but well-known
to the school of which Generals Maddox
and Praun appertained. These veterans
formed part of that gallant old army that
subsisted on the traditions of the Peninsula.

They had entered the service before the

•

days of examination and left it before
the days of breech-loaders. Warriors of a
completely superannuated time, but with
as much confidence in their judgment as a
Waterloo veteran might manifest concerning
the strategy of the Crimea, which, as
we all know, was still conducted on pretty
well the old obsolete principles.

Do you suppose a Crimea man, accustomed
to see or hear of a far bigger record

of killed and wounded weekly in a nameless
skirmish, feels much respect for the
battle of Tel-el-Kebir P It was ever so with
these warriors of the olden times. They
didn't see much in results that were brought
about with such marvellously little fighting.
I suppose it's all right, and that our very
modern generals are marvellous chess-players,
but when one sees such very small sacrifice
of the pawns and knights one can but think
there is a very weak player at the other
side of the board. Now this was just one
of the things that Maurice Enderby irritated
these old soldiers about to an enormous
extent ; not only was he liberal in his
politics but he stood up stoutly for the
triumphs of the great liberal generals, that
is, those appointed by the liberal administration,
and against which in good sooth
his adversaries might have had much to
say had they only the wit to argue the

question, but that was just what they
could not do ; the clever young Oxonian
knew much more about modern military
strategy than they did, and, to speak figuratively,
tripped up their heels and laid them
on their backs continually.

It can hardly be supposed that all this
conduced to making Maurice Enderby
popular with the little military hierarchy
that somewhat dominated Tunnleton. That
the veterans of the Old Guard should
be wroth with a curate who dared to challenge
their military memories and opinions
was but natural. Maurice Enderby was
adding little to his popularity by his display
of soldier's lore at the Tunnleton Club.

Things certainly were looking black
for the new curate. To people like the
butcher and baker he was somewhat in
arrear, and these people were beginning
to be respectfully urgent with regard

VOL. I. n

to their money, when there suddenly
occurred an event that took Tunnleton' s
breath away ! General Praun's eyes nearly
bolted out of his head, and, in that temperate
and classic language for which he
was distinguished, he exclaimed to his wife

on going home to lunch, " By ! what

do you think, Jem " (short for Jemima) ;
what do you think ? I'm dashed if the
Bridge Court carriage wasn't standing at
the Enderbys' door as I passed it just now."
Likely to make a terrible stir this, in a
tiny little fish-pond like Tunnleton. The
Bridge Court people did not fraternize with
Tunnleton, and indeed were not upon visiting
terms with any one but the Chyltons.
of the Bank and Dr. Romney, and even
with these the acquaintance was slight, and
limited to a couple of formal dinners a year.
The Balders were most decidedly not
given to general calling in Tunnleton.

They had never vouchsafed the slightest
notice of General Maddox, General Praetor
any of those other military magnates
as leaders of Tunnleton society. General
Maddox — who mastered the fact about the
same time — indeed, circumstances in 
were not very long in becoming
town-talk — took the news home to his wife
with the observation :

Most extraordinary, my dear. By
Jupiter! if the Balders haven't called on
that stuck-up young Enderby ! Where
the deuce society's going to I don't know,
but, when county people call upon radical
curates and overlook general officers, there
must be a pretty considerable screw loose
in our social organization somewhere."

' Do you mean to tell me, Maxey, that
the Bridge Court people have actually called
upon the Enderby s ? "

Yes, by Jove, I do! and nothing has

n2

astonished me so much for a long time ; if
serving your country for close on forty
years don't entitle a man to his country's
respect, I don't know what does ; and yet,
here are the Bridge Court people calling
on a whipper-snapper curate like Enderby,
and, as you know, madam, they have never,
as yet, called upon us."

It was not likely that such an event as
this would escape that keen-sighted cohort
the Torkeslys — difficult indeed to baffle the
vision or ears of that vigilant little brigade
of sharp-shooters. Nothing much that went
on in Tunnleton could escape their ken —
it was difficult to imagine even a proposal
of marriage taking place without a Torkesly
looming in the background. You couldn't
get away from that indefatigable family ;
some one or other member of them attended
everything; and ball, birth, or burial, feast
or fast, wooing or wedding, there was ever

a Miss Torkesly there to take keen and
attentive note of the proceedings. No
uncommon type this, you will always find
a family or so of this kind in every provincial
town, taking that diligent interest
in their neighbours' affairs that is so delightful,
and tends so much to universal
love and good feeling.

Tunnleton, indeed, was much exercised in
its mind about the fact of the Bridge Court
people having called upon the Enderbys, and
once more the question as to who the
Enderbys were was fiercely discussed. To
Maurice it was all plain enough. He knew
very well that he was indebted for this
courtesy from the B alders to Bob Grafton as
an intimate friend of the family ; he had
doubtless mentioned his — Maurice's — name,
and begged they would do the civil thing to
them, and cheery unaffected people like the
Bridge Court family were only too pleased

to extend the hand of fellowship to a couple
whom they were emphatically told would
prove a pleasant acquisition to their circle.

You will do them, me, and yourselves a
turn, Miss Balders, if you call on them,"
Bob Grafton said upon the occasion of his
last visit to Bridge Court. " He was not
only in quite one of the best sets at Oxford,
but about the best man all round in it. He
not only could beat us in the schools, but we
couldn't catch him with the drag either, and
as for his wife she is simply charming.
They labour under only one drawback, and
that is one that you are not the people to
care about ; they are poor. As for Mrs.
Enderby, she is a niece of old John Making
one of the best families in Yorkshire.' '

I shall not forget, Mr. Grafton ; we
would do a great deal more than that for an
old friend like yourself, and if a little civility
from Bridge Court can make things a trifle

more pleasant for Mr. and Mrs. Enderby
during their sojourn in Tunnleton, don't be
afraid but what it shall be extended to
them."

And the Maddoxeses, the Prauns, and the
Torkeslys marvelled greatly at this new and
extraordinary phenomenon in the social
horizon, destined to be still more astonished
before the erratic course of such a comet as
Maurice Enderby was brought to a conclusion.


CHAPTER XIII,

LITERARY FAILURES.

That the Bridge Court people should call
upon " those Enderbys " perfectly convulsed
the minds of Mrs. Maddox, Praun, and
those uncountable Torkeslys, but far from
propitiated that great faction of Tunnleton
already disposed to speak ill-naturedly
of the new curate ; it simply set their
tongues running faster ; apparently it seemed
a piece of presumption in their eyes

that Maurice Enderby should even be called
upon at all. They could give no reason for
this. Enderby was a gentleman who had
received a university education, and came
there unmistakably to take a gentleman's
position in their midst. As for his wife, no
one for one moment disputed the fact that
she was a lady ; it was not that, but the
magnates of Tunnleton thought curates were
to be patronised, and, lo and behold, here
was a curate who not only refused to be
patronised but held strong opinions of his
own, and, worse still, had the audacity to
express them !

Gad, sir!" said General Praun, " that
young beggar Enderby at the club only the
other day not only found fault with the
government but pronounced the chiefs of the
opposition a set of old women ; besides, it's
all very well, sir, but you must reverence
something or somebody, and, as far as I can

see, lie has no reverence for anything or
anybody ; why, dash it, sir, he simply pooh-poohed
Maddox's views and mine about the
Eastern question, and I flatter myself that,
after the years we spent there, we should be
some authority upon what is likely to occur
there."

A fatal mistake ! As if there were not
men who could live ten years in a country
and not know more about it than the student
who only gets his knowledge from books ; as
if time stood still, and the man who has
spent half a life-time in a country but left it
fifteen years ago can be the slightest judge
of public thought or public feeling there in
the present day. It has happened probably
to most of us to go back to some place that
we have known when young, and perhaps a
score of years ago. Do not we all know
what a miserable mistake it has been ? We
have seen more of the world since then, and

the place looks dwarfed. It is so much
smaller than we pictured it. The promenade
we once thought so magnificent turns out to
be a very small affair ; the public rooms and
public buildings insignificant ; and what we
have been trained to look on as the magnificent
mansions of the place turn out to be
very ordinary residences after all. Now,
much as Generals Maddox and Praun would
have derided the idea, Maurice Enderby had
really seen more of the world than either of
these gallant officers. Their lives had been
principally passed in India, when they did
retire from the service they had settled in
Tunnleton, and, though no doubt they occasionally
visited the metropolis, their knowledge
of London was very circumscribed.
Tunnleton was the home of their adoption,
and Tunnleton, after the manner of the
citizens of Boston, U.S., they had elevated
to the position of " Hub of the Universe."

In the meantime Maurice felt his life
growing harder and harder; he lived in
apprehension of what the irritable Badger
might be capable of. This alone showed
that he was no hardened offender ; had he
been more practised in debt and difficulties
he would have known quite well, that,
whatever he might] threaten, Mr. Badger
would never proceed to extremities. Mr.
Badger was no fool, and knew perfectly well
that the settlement of his account depended
entirely upon Mr. Enderby's doing well in
his profession.

It is as well to keep the screw on 'em,"
Mr. Badger observed, when talking the
matter over with one of his intimates, "it
may be hard, but it's best to wring a bit out
of them on account, even though you know
there's no chance of a real settlement — keeps
'em lively like, makes 'em think of you,
makes 'em bear you in mind because they

know you bears them ; it ain't to be supposed
they likes it, but, Lord love you, nobody
does like paying for the cakes and ale he eat
two years ago."

Mr. Badger's business was peculiar ; if he
hadn't given a great deal of credit it would
have been very much restricted, but he
understood it, and he understood human
nature. He might be a man of no education
but he was a thorough philosopher, and if he
bullied Maurice Enderby it was neither in a
spiteful spirit nor from any personal feeling
of animosity, it was in fact a mere matter of
business. Maurice's, like many other such
debts, was so much capital locked up.
There was plenty of time to wait for a complete
settling, but it was necessary to wring
a certain sum per annum out of the luckless
creditor to represent the thirty or forty percent,
that Mr. Badger considered his due on
such transactions. But to the man relentlessly

worried for money it signifies little
whether it is a matter of business or a matter
of malice. The finding of the precious metals
is equally difficult, and the majority of
humanity, recklessly though they may incur
debt, pay when they can when dunned in
earnest. It was a bold Hibernian plunger
who, hardly pressed and even threatened
with the penalties of an utterly unsettled
Epsom account, I heard some years ago exclaim,
philosophically, to his angry creditors,
€t Faith, you cannot get blood out of a stone. "
What became of that staunch backer of persistent
losers I never heard, but my mind
misgives me that his creditors very quickly
realised the truth of his remark.

Maurice kept his troubles pretty well to
himself. He was not of the kind that takes
to begging and whimpering in their difficulties
; like a game horse he " ran honest "
in his distress, and did his best to struggle

home. It was no use vexing Bessie, especially
now, with the stories of his debts and duns, but
for all that the story was one that promised
to speedily publish itself. Like he must —
at all events he saw the necessity, if nobody
else did — and the butcher and the baker
were necessary adjuncts to existence. Very
prosaic this, no doubt ; more prosaic still the
quiet pertinacity with which those purveyors
send in their weekly accounts.

Maurice Enderby thought anxiously overall
these things as he smoked his solitary
pipe. They came between him and the
paper — for he was still working steadily at
literature, in the hope that the time would
shortly come when he might supplement his
income in that wise. But literature is a
slippery ladder to climb, and, in its earlier
stages, one's work is by no means in much
request. Maurice, too, was making a very
bad start. Better to run on your own

bottom than under the fostering wing of an
impostor, who conveys to you an exaggerated
idea of his power in the land of letters.

Maurice's stuff was, in the language of the
profession, "by no means bad' but when it
reached the hands of the editors recommended
by the Reverend Jacob Jarrow they did not
much trouble themselves to look at it. That
gentleman was but little known, and his
lucubrations were regarded much in the same
light as the famous "Eatanswille Gazette,"
which the prevent Slur pronounced tl ungrammatical
twaddle." Little hope that
solid remuneration would accrue for sometime
yet to Maurice from that quarter.
Another singular thing that went against
Maurice was his play at lawn tennis. There
are some amusements at which you may become
unpopular by being a little too good.
Maurice had been one of the best players at
the University, and it was objected to him

at garden-parties, when he joined at this

diversion, that he ei spoiled the interest of the

game," as he played rather too well. It

is easily understood ; average players get a

vast amount of amusement out of all games

they may patronise, but the appearance of

a past master invariably spoils their fun.

People said unkind things concerning him.

General Praun remarked that he must have

dedicated his whole time at college to the

acquirement of lawn tennis, which accounted

for his ignorance on other subjects.

The attentions too of the Bridge Court

people were gall and wormwood to Tunnel

The Balders had undoubtedly been

very civil to Maurice and his wife. They

had not only called several times, but had

asked them to lunch and spend the day at

Bridge Court : and, upon finding that Bessie

was in delicate health, had sent her various

contributions from the conservatories and
vol. I. o

fruit-houses. All this occasioned much spiteful
feeling in Tunnleton, where there were
several families who rather looked down
upon the Enderbys, and considered themselves
far more worthy of such distinction.
It is so at times. People constantly resent
our knowing their superiors in the social
scale. We may not be very proud of it ;
we may not brag of it ; but by some accident
we have achieved such acquaintance, and
the mere fact that it is so always irritates
such persons when it comes under their
notice.

Clouds roll up as well as roll by, and Maurice's
horizon was getting more and more
gloomy as the spring-time came. He was a
happy father, and that event had not contributed
to lighten his difficulties, although
he pretty well held his own with his tradespeople,
and the irritable Badger still confined
himself to threats. One morning he received

an unexpected letter from Bob Grafton,

which ran as follows —

Dear Maurice,

How are Mrs. Enderby and the young

one going on ? — I hope well. I saw the

birth of the son and heir in the ' Times,'

' Heir,' muttered Maurice. i Yes ; to the

inheritance of love ' ) and had a bottle of

champagne on the strength of it. Put me

down as godfather if you can't do better.

Mind, a good godfather is like a good,

though rather far-fetched, speculation, he

may turn up trumps some day, ' more or

less,' as the music-hall bard hath it. I

might do as a second string, being good fora

silver cup down, and a case of wine for

keeping his early birthdays with.

Now there's another of your family on

the verge, I'm told, of distinguishing herself.

The Wandering Nun, I hear, is to make her

debut in the ' Woodcotes,' and report speaks
o2

highly of the young lady's charms and
capabilities. I intend to have a pony on
her myself, but, unless my memory — a
pretty good one — plays me false, her
triumph will mean something better than
that to Mrs. Enderby. Don't be very
sanguine about it. Young ones the first
time of asking are seldom to be trusted on
a racecourse, and the equine fair sex in the
first part of the season are wont to be capricious
in their behaviour. Have you seen
much of the Bridge Court people? They
are great friends of mine, as you know, and
I hope you have seen a good deal of them.
I'm afraid I shall not be down your way till
the autumn, so with kind regards to the
wife, and trusting that the ' wandering
recluse ' may distinguish herself at Epsom,

I am ever yours,

Bob Grafton."

Maurice received this letter in the early
part of April, and that from this he should
occasionally glance at the racing intelligence
in the morning papers was only natural; but,
of course, he found no allusion to the
Woodcotes," and easily ascertained that
that race was not run until the end of May,
and there was seldom any betting upon it
till two or three days before the race.
From that time he put it out of his thoughts,
and it was not till the papers teemed with
the accounts of the great Epsom carnival
that he once more sought for information
about Uncle John's wedding present. He
read the account of the " Woodcotes " with
great interest — interest which rapidly died
out on his ascertaining that the "Wandering
Nun," had not even started for that
race.

"Ah!" he said to himself, "I'm afraid

Bessie's wedding-gift is one of those 
that terminate in nothing. I
don't know much about it, but everyone
has heard that very promising foals, like
very promising boys, often turn out much
below mediocrity. There is no more dependence
to be placed on help from that
quarter. Grafton was quite right when he
warned me not to be too sanguine. My
literature is coming to nothing — we can't
live more carefully than we do, and yet weare
drifting behind the world, to say nothing
of my old Oxford liabilities looming in the
background ; " and with this reflection
Maurice Enderby threw down the paper
and went for a long meditative walk.

u I must try and turn my hand to something
else," he mused, " I work hard at
my profession but I want something to
supplement it ; however, as I don't see my
way to anything else at present, I'll just

hammer along at the pen-and-ink work, and
next time I'll not ask Jarrow's help, but
run up to town and see what I can do on
my own account."

CHAPTER XIV.

RICHARD MADINGLEY.

But if the world was by no mens a bed of
roses to Maurice Enderby it was still less so to
his wife. Bessie was a plucky little woman,
out and about, and quite herself again now.
Still she was fighting a hard battle in many
ways ; there was not only the endless
struggle to make both ends meet on scanty
means, but she had her own countless skirmishes
with Tunnleton society to boot.
Bessie was a quick-witted young woman,

and with plenty of spirit of her own. And
when Tunnleton commenced patronising
her it quickly found that she was by no
means disposed to accept the role of the
meek curate's wife. She had more than
once completely worsted the Torkeslys in
their own house, and even Mrs. Maddox
had been compelled to own that Mrs.
Enderby quite knew how to take her jDlace
in this world. She was almost as bad asher
husband. She smiled good-naturedly
at Tunnleton fashions, and sometimes rather
laughed at Tunnleton opinions, and it was
a quickly recognised thing that Bessie could
take her own part in the social tournament.
Neither she nor her husband at all kotooed
to the magnates of the place, but then on
the other hand it was conceded that they
were agreeable, pleasant people, although
they had the audacity to have opinions of
their own — a thing preposterous in their

present position. Still as the summer wore
on, although it was rumoured that the
Enderbys were dreadfully hard up, yet
perhaps they had grown somewhat more
popular. People do sometimes who pursue
the even tenor of their way and don't
trouble themselves about their neighbours.
It was about this time that an event occurred
in Tunnleton which was destined later onto
agitate the little town to its very centre.
A young gentleman of about five-ands twenty
arrived in the place with two or three
horses and as many servants, took one of
the most suitable bachelor residences in
the town, announced that his name was
Richard Madingley, and that he meant to
spend the summer there. He had taken a
house with a pretty garden attached to it,
just the thing, he remarked, for garden-parties
— put himself up for the Club, and

let it be understood that he meant to entertain
and go in for society generally.

Tunnieton voted Mr. Madingley an immense
acquisition; the young ladies declared
he was so handsome ; the men were struck
with his offhand bonhommie; and then
there was no deception about his hospitable
intentions. As soon as he had felt his way
he gave a correct little bachelor dinner,
and picked his guests with marvellous dexterity.
He had not fallen into the mistake
of asking a lot of young men of his own
age, but bidden to the feast u the grave and
reverend signors," and had taken care that
the palates of the veterans should be
titillated. General Maddox pronounced him
a fine young fellow, while General Praun
declared that the evening brought back
vivid recollections of the Bulla Club.
There was only one member of the military
hierarchy who was not loud in his encomiums

of young Madingley, and this was
General Shrewster. Shrewster was a man
of the world, an ex-dragoon, a man who
had lived all his life in the best society.
He had been asked to the feast of young
Lucullus, but had declined, and when
pressed upon the subject of this self-denial
had replied, tersely :

u I think you are all a little mistaken in
that young man. I have nothing, remember,
to allege against him. No doubt he is a
popular } 7 young fellow, but he gives me the
idea of not being quite a gentleman. I
dare say I am mistaken, but at all events I
generally stand to my own opinion, and have
no intention of being on terms of intimacy
with him''

General Shrewster was a slightly cynical
man, unmarried, but well-off, and his opinion
carried considerable weight in Tunnleton.
He did not mix much in society, living

rather a quiet and retired life, although
entertaining occasionally in admirable taste.
By Jove, sir ! " General Maddox would
say, " Shrewster may not do it often, but
he does know how to do it." But the ex-dragoon
was a difficult man to lure to other
people's houses. Always courteous, low-voiced,
and pleasant, when he did put in
an appearance he was amazingly popular
and especially with the ladies. A good-looking,
thorough-bred man of fifty-five,
young ladies particularly voted him charming,
and the rarity of his appearance, as
usual, enhanced his value. Amongst one
of his curious whims, at all events in the
eyes of Tunnleton, was that he had taken
a fancy to Maurice Enderby. He laughed
at his liberal principles, and as an old
militaire naturally pooh-poohed the idea of
his knowing anything about military matters,

but for all that he bore an unmistakably
kindly feeling towards the curate.

When General Praun upon one occasion
ventured to ask him what made him such
friends with that bumptious young curate,
between himself and whom there was not
an opinion in common, General Shrewster
replied, with a queer smile,

I like 'em well-bred, and that fellow's
got good blood in his veins ; he is the sort
of young man I should like to have seen
amongst my subalterns when I commanded
the 7th Hussars ; I daresay he can ride, and
if he can't I'd bet a cool hundred he'd very
soon learn ; and I'll tell you what, Praun,
a young fellow who has the pluck to hold
unpopular opinions is seldom wanting in
pluck about anything. There was a deuced
good dragoon lost to the service when
Enderby turned curate."

Maurice, from the first, had naturally been

struck by the name of Richard Madingley ; he
had watched his proceedings with considerable
interest, and, strange to say, he had come much
to the same opinion as General Shrewster ;
when he questioned Bessie about this distant
relative of hers, she simply made answer,
that she had never heard of him ; (i still,
she added, " as far as I gather from you he
is really only a second cousin of Uncle
John's, and relations of that kind very often
know nothing about each other."

et Still," rejoined Maurice, " I should have
thought you would have heard who was the
probable heir to your uncle's estates ; when
there is a rich man in the family it is generally
pretty well known who will be, or at
all events who is likely to be, his successor."

"I can only say," replied Bessie, " I
haven't the slightest idea who Uncle John's
heir is likely to be, 1 know he has no very
near relations."

"Why! What do you call yourself''
cried Maurice.

Well, I believe I am the nearest he has,
but you don't for one moment suppose that
he would think of leaving Bingwell to a
woman."

No, indeed, I didn't mean that," said
Maurice, laughing, "I wouldn't give you
much for your reversion of the property, so
suppose this Mr. Madingley is in all probability
his heir."

And with that the conversation on the
subject dropped.

Good morning, Mr. Enderby," exclaimed
Maria Torkesly, meeting the curate
in Tontine Street, the leading thoroughfare
of Tunnleton. " Have you heard the news ?
Mr. Madingley is going to give a great
garden-party on the 12th, and everybody is
going. We have just got our card ; are you
going?"

Well, Miss Torkesly, I have not got
mine, so I suppose I may answer, no."

ei Oh, I dare say they are not all out as
yet. You are sure to receive one. You
must come. Give my love to Mrs. Enderby
and tell her I shall quite look forward to
seeing her there."

Maurice raised his hat in sign of adieu,
and Miss Torkesly hurried off to flourish
her invitation before all her acquaintances.
When she said that every one was going,
she knew perfectly well that it was not to
be a large party, but it was a customary
fiction of the Torkesly s whereby they conveyed
the fact to their unasked neighbours
that everybody that was anybody was going,
and left them to the obvious inference.

Maurice, his morning's work finished,

dropped into the club to have a glance at

the morning's papers before going home to

luncheon. He found that little community
VOL. i. p

in a state of considerable excitement, and
the military section (a somewhat large one)
literally on the boil. Our troops had sustained
a tremendous disaster on the other
side of the Equator, and, let alone Tunnel
all England was ringing with it that
morning.

"What business had he so far from his
base ? " asked General Maddox, in those
judicial tones of his, " tell me that, Sir."

He ought to be shot," rejoined the irascible
Praun. " If they don't bring Lord
Raggleton to a court-martial the Government
ought to be ashamed of themselves."

Gad, he does seem to have made a mess
of it," said General Shrewster, " upon my
word he doesn't seem to understand the use
of cavalry at all. He's responsible for the
whole business, and when I was in the
service a man who had made such a preposterous
mistake as that would have thought

himself lucky if his life had not been the
penalty of it."

I suppose the leader of an army is always
liable to make a mistake at times' remarked
Maurice, quietly ; ci don't you recollect
Napoleon's dictum. Lord Raggleton
has apparently blundered this time."

16 But there are blunders a man ought not
to escape punishment for," said General
Shrewster with an amused twinkle in his
eye.

Perhaps not, but don't you think weare
trying Lord Eaggleton by a drum-head
court-martial with next to no knowledge of
facts?" retorted Maurice; "the English
public, like the Athenians, are swift, though
not particularly just, in their judgment."

"You are hardly a judge of military

affairs," snorted Praun, u a manlike Ragged

ought to meet his deserts."

Do you think a man fights best with
pa

rope round his neck, General ? I should
think one would feel one's hands rather
tied about fighting if one knew the penalty
for defeat were to be death. One does not
require to be a military man to understand
that."

"You see, Mr. Enderby," observed General
Maddox in his most pompous tones, "a civilian
cannot be expected to quite understand these
matters any more than we can be expected
to understand the intricacies of your profession."


u Well," rejoined Maurice, laughing, " I
have heard some of you comment pretty
freely upon the proceedings of my cloth
before this, and now I must go borne to
lunch. 'Tis possible, gentlemen, you may
alter your verdict when fuller details concerning
this disaster reach us. Meanwhile I
think it would be as well for Lord Raggleton

that his court-martial should not be held at
Tunnleton.''

16 By Jove ! " said General Praun, as Maurice
left the room, " that fellow Enderby is
the most conceited young upstart I ever
came across : there is nothing he refrains
from giving his opinion about. What can
he know, now I ask you all, what the devil
can he know about campaigning ? "

u Well," replied General Shrewster, laughing,
" I don't suppose he does know much
about that, but he is a little difficult to
get the better of in argument. Carries too
many guns for you, Praun, eh ?'"

I hate fellows who are all jabber like
young rooks*' replied that irascible veteran,
and turning abruptly on his heel he left the
room.

General Shrewster gave a low laugh. It
amused him very much to sec his ancient

brethren in arms so utterly unable to cope
in conversation with the young parson, but
still he had quite as great a contempt for a
civilian's opinion on military affairs as either
General Maddox or General Praun.

When Maurice arrived at home he found
Bessie waiting lunch for him with rather a
troubled face.

What's the matter, dear?" he asked,
I can see that something has gone wrong."

u Have your lunch first," she said, " nothing
has gone wrong, still there is a little
unpleasantness. ' '

Maurice looked at her for a moment, and
then as he sat down to his modest repast
said, inquiringly,

I suppose you want money."

Well, yes, if you can find it'' she said.
Rumford, the butcher, was up here this
morning, and said he would like something

on account ; his bill has been running rather
long, you know."

Maurice said nothing, but became plunged
into deep thought. He must have a little
money to go on with somehow; as to attempting
a settlement with Badger that was
out of the question, but the tradespeople
were another matter ; he must go to his
wife's trustees, and persuade them to let him
have a hundred pounds out of her settlement.
They were not likely to object to
this, more especially as this settlement was
not good in the eye of the law, it having
been made subsequent to the large debt he
had contracted to the livery stable-keeper.
He had vowed that nothing but Badger
should ever make him break into that little
fund. In this case if the man should proceed
to extremities he was unable to prevent
it, and to the extent of his due the 

could compel him to dip into
it. He sat ruefully thinking over all this,
when Bessie, suddenly putting her hand on
his shoulder, exclaimed :

il Don't look so sad, Maurice, I quite forgot
to tell you I have a letter for you. Here
it is. I think it is from Mr. Grafton, and
have a presentiment it contains good news."

Bob's letters, like your uncle's wedding
present, are a delusion and a snare," rejoined
Maurice, smiling. i( He said we were to
make our small fortunes in May, and that
remarkable quadruped, in which you are
half-proprietor, seemed to disappear below
the horizon immediately afterwards. However,
let us see what he says.

li Dear Maurice," so the letter began, —
"You must doubtless have wondered what
has become of the ( Wandering Nun.' At
Epsom she never put in an appearance, and

I suppose had succumbed to the mishaps
incidental in training : but I met a fellow
the other day who knows all about the stable,
and he tells me the only reason they did not
run her for the i Woodcotes ' was that they
did not consider her quite up to the mark.

He tells me that she is all right now,
going on wonderfully well, and they expect
her to run away with the ' Chesterfields '
next month. As I told you before, she
carries my pony whenever she does start,
and I fully expect to have a good look at
her at Newmarket, and I hope, a good deal
for your sake, to say nothing of a little of
my own, to see her win. My kind regards
to Mrs. Enderby, and tell her that I think
she will get the first instalment of Uncle
John's wedding present next month."

Maurice put this letter down on the table,
and, throwing himself down in his chair,
wondered if it would be possible to carry on

till this race should be decided. If anything
really came of it the meddling with Bessie's
settlement would be averted ; if nothing, it
was only doing then what he thought of
doing now.

CHAPTER XV.

THE GARDEN PARTY.

Mr. Madingley's garden-party was a great
success. It was undoubtedly well done.
There was a cold collation laid out in the
dining-room, on which lobster mayonnaise,
prawns, chicken, and other delicacies were
flanked by champagne cup, iced coffee, &c.
Refreshments of a lighter description were
handed freely about the garden, and the
most had been made of the lawn-tennis
ground.

The ladies were enthusiastic in complimenting
their host upon the perfection
of his arrangements, and that young gentleman
could assuredly not be accused of being
wanting in self-esteem. He replied that it
was all very well in a small way, " but
then, Mrs. Maddox, you must remember
what a box of a place it is."

"Why, it is one of the nicest houses of
the size in Tunnleton."

Perhaps so," replied Mr. Madingley,
with an almost compassionate smile. " It
is as much as I can manage at present.
Between ourselves, my dear madam, I am
at present only an heir-presumptive, and
have not as yet come to my kingdom."

The young man lowered his tone as lie
made this latter speech as if taking Mrs.
Maddox into his special confidence, and the
good lady felt much flattered at the compliment.
It was a way Mr. Madingley had,

and it had stood him in good stead with
middle-aged matrons many a time. His
confidences were never of a nature that
the violation of them would occasion him
even a moment's annoyance, for he was a
young man wise in his generation, and
gifted with a cool calculating selfishness
that was likely to stand him in good stead
in his way through the world. Although
but five-and-twenty Richard Madingley was
already a keen crafty man of the world,
thoroughly conversant with all its dark
holes and dirty corners, with experiences
that would rather have astonished his guests
had they been acquainted with them.

Our host has got rather a bit of side
on,' 7 observed General Praun to his particular
crony General Maddox.

Well, a good-looking young fellow giving
a recherche entertainment of this kind

to all the leading people in Tunnleton
naturally has that."

He needn't have quite so much of it
though' replied Praun, testily. He was
naturally of an irritable disposition, and had
met with a disappointment regarding a
second edition of lobster mayonnaise that
still festered in his mind. " Halloa, Kin-jersey
! " he exclaimed to a young fellow
who entered the dining-room, clothed in
flannels and perspiration, evidently in search
of a beaker of something cooling, "how are
you getting on at the tennis-ground ? ''

Capitally, but there are too many candidates
for the courts. The ground is
strewn with Torkeslys, ' thick as leaves in
Vallombrosa,' and in their desire for a game
they are insatiable."

Or what might probably come of a
game," muttered the irascible Praun, his
mind still harping on that little matter of

mayonnaise. " Ah, Jarrow ! " lie continued
aloud, " glad to see you ; glad you can
escape from your literary labours to take
part in an open-air junketing like this."

One cannot be always at the desk'
replied the rector, with an unctuous smile ;
and just at present I am not engaged in
demolishing a sophist. I have no doubt it
will not be long before I am compelled to
take up the pen again. The propagators
of specious fallacies are manifold in the
land."

11 Have some chicken and cold tongue,
Mr. Jarrow," interposed young Kingsley,
taking a practical view if not a particularly
high one of the situation. He was always
a little alarmed when, in his irreverent
vernacular, the rector had got his literary
stop on.

Mr. Jarrow yielded to the seduction, and

ceasing his literary pretensions, abandoned
himself to the luncheon-table.

Meanwhile, Mrs. Maddox and Mrs. Praun
were engaged in a real confidential gossip
under a tree in the tennis-ground. Neither
lady having daughters of her own, the overpowering
presence of the Misses Torkesly
did not occasion them much uneasiness.
They had made a spiteful remark or two
about it to each other, and then lightly
passed over the subject.

I see the Enderbys are not here," observed
Mrs. Praun, " I can quite understand
a young man like Mr. Madingley not being
able to put up with his conceited overbearing
manner."

Yes ; indeed, the general was quite
against my calling on them, but I thought
it right to do so. I have a great respect
for the Church, and invariably stretch out
my hand to welcome even its juniors when

they come here ; I have always felt it my
duty to be kind to the young people. In
India, my dear, when the general was
colonel of the district, I always called on
all the subalterns' wives.' '

So she did, dear good lady, and mightily
the subalterns' wives enjoyed it. She generally
read them a severe lecture on economy,
and doing their duty in that state of life
in which they found themselves — winding
up that their husbands might possibly become
colonels in the course of years, and
they themselves blossom even into such a
one as herself. That visit completed, she
seldom took further notice of them.

"There are rumours about the Enderbys,''
said Mrs. Praun; " but I dare say," she
continued, doubtfully, " you have heard
them, my dear."

u I don't quite understand you," rejoined

Mrs. Maddox, drawing her bonnet considered.
I. Q

ably closer to her companion's. " You mean

Just so," replied Mrs. Praun ; " but you
know they do say "

Exactly ; there's nothing wrong about
their marriage, is there ? "

"No! no! my dear, it's not that. I
thought you had heard — you know I'm nota
tattler, and perhaps I ought not to tell
you," — (what a provoking thing she is, muttered
Mrs. Maddox, in a fever of curiosity)
" for it is whispered that Mr. Enderby
is getting very much into debt in the town.
I happened to hear that the tradespeople
have great trouble in getting their money."

Well, I always did say," returned Mrs.
Maddox, " that they had no business to
take that house ; I always thought it was
quite beyond their means, or that of most
curates."

"Well, I'm sure I hope it won't get about;

let us hope it isn't true. I know, my dear,
I can rely upon your not mentioning it.
And as for me, as I said before, I am no
tattler."

It is to be presumed that the good ladies
honestly meant what they said, and yet,
strange to say, within eight-and-forty hours
it began to be whispered through Tunnleton
that Mr. Enderby was in difficulties. The
tradespeople — to do them justice— said little
about it, but these things generally leak out
in some inconceivable manner. Two or
three of the leading shopkeepers had, no
doubt, called upon Maurice lately, and urged
respectfully that they should like something
on account, but Enderby adhered to his
resolution and only said : " Wait till the end
of next month." This was his invariable
reply. From that time Maurice began toscan
the sporting papers with an eagerness
somewhat unbecoming his profession ; 


though he had never in the least taken up
racing, it would be absurd to suppose that a
University man of his stamp had never seen
a Derby run, or was totally ignorant of
horse-racing. There are thousands of Englishmen
who never bet, who never go near
a racecourse, and affect no knowledge of the
calendar, but who yet know the names of all
the leading cracks of the turf, and take an
interest as to what may win the half-dozen
big races of the season.

We are a horse-loving nation and cannot
help feeling a curiosity as to the deeds of
our equine heroes remotely approaching to
that which we feel in that of our soldiers and
sailors. I suppose there never was a club in
which a certain number of the members did
not talk of horse-racing, and the Tunnleton
club was no exception. Maurice had at first
stood aloof from this section of the community,
which as a rule haunted the billiard-room.

He had, to begin with, not thought
it quite right to look into that room much,
and secondly their talk had little interest for
him ; but now all this was changed, he was
beginning to feel an absorbing interest in
racing, and could not help listening to the
lore that fell from the lips of these young
gentlemen, although feeling in his heart that
they knew little about it. You must not
blame Maurice Enderby, and argue that a
man who had embraced his profession had
no business to let his thoughts be absorbed
about the turf. Remember he is a man sore
beset for money, and who, by no act of his
own, suddenly finds himself in the position
of half-owner of what he is told is a " flying
two-year old." It would not be in human
nature to abstain from looking forward to
the success of that filly as some relief from
his necessities.

But gradually he got so accustomed to

drop into the billiard-room and talk racing,
that it was no wonder the men with whom he
gossiped forgot his cloth and offered to bet
with him. It is true he always laughingly
refused, but there were naturally other frequenters
of the room besides the sporting
knot of which we have been speaking.
General Maddox and General Praun rarely
unbent so much as to look in there, but a
rumour spread about the club, which of
course speedily reached their ears, that Mr.
Enderby took a strange interest in turf
affairs ; then one or two of the staid, steady
old pool-players had heard Maurice offered a
bet, and that this little bit of scandal should
(in repetition) have been turned into had
taken a bet was not very extraordinary.
Before the Newmarket July Meeting took
place, Maurice, little as he knew it, had
achieved the reputation of gambling on
horse-racing. There are many quiet-going

people who regard a man who has made a
small bet upon a horse-race as going rapidly
to the dogs, and it was not to be supposed
that Tunnleton was not leavened by people
of this description ; and when the rumour of
Maurice's supposed misdeeds reached their
ears the feeling against him would be likely
to run very high in the town.

Young Madingiey had rapidly constituted
himself almost the principal figure in the
sporting coterie. He had evidently been
racing, while most of the others only talked
about it, and there was no doubt had considerable
knowledge of the subject. He it
was who had offered to bet with Maurice
Enderby. There was an instinctive antipathy
between the two men, and till Maurice
got so anxious about the advent of the
Wandering Nun " they had scarcely exchanged
twenty words, but now a common
interest bound them together.

It was the Saturday before the July meeting,
and Maurice could not resist dropping
into the club in the afternoon to hear what
might be the latest opinions and reports concerning
the forthcoming week's racing.

The sporting papers had all arrived from
town, and those that only appeared every
seventh day had to sum up, and speak with
authority as to what were to be the runners
of the principal races. Most of these put
down the " Chesterfields " to a very smart
two-year-old called Bajazet, who had been
only just beaten for the New Stakes at Ascot,
though some two or three of them asserted,
that there was a rumoured dark filly in
Osborne's stable that might take a good deal
of beating." Those connected with the
stable believed " The Wandering Nun " to
be a veritable flyer.

Mr. Madingley pooh-poohed Maurice's suggestion
that this might possibly prove the

victor of the " Chesterfields," and Maurice for
the first time betrayed his interest in a particular
[race. Hitherto he had talked over
racing generally, but this time he had ventured
an opinion, and what was more a
tolerably decided one.

Richard Madingley noticed it quick as
lightning, and turning to him, said,

"You seem interested in the 'Chester-fields
Enderby? I'll make you a small
bet, or for the matter of that a big one. I
will lay you two to one in pounds or to
money, that 'Bajazet' beats the * Wandering
Nun' wherever they finish."

For a moment the blood rushed to Maurice's
temples, and, although he had never
done such a thing before, a strange longing
came over him to reply —

si Done in hundreds ! ''

It was not so much the words, as the contemptuous
tone in which Madingley's speech

was uttered, but he swallowed his anger
with a great gulp, and replied coldly —

st I never bet, Mr. Madingley," and the
strange inflexion on the " Mr." marked his
resentment at that gentleman's familiarity in
addressing him without the prefix. " Neither
my profession nor my circumstances admit
of such indulgence, and, had you reflected
before you spoke, you might have known to
offer a bet to a man of my cloth was as much
empty bluster as calling upon him to fight a
duel."

And with this Maurice turned abruptly
upon his heel and left the room.

Father rose the parson," said Dick
Madingley. " Never bets, indeed! Supercilious
young prig ! he lias got a fiver or
tenner on < The Wandering Nun' I'll go
bail ! "

His remark fell somewhat flat, and he
could see, by the faces of his companions,

that they looked upon him as very properly
snubbed.

You had no business to offer to bet with
him, Dick," said young Kinnersley, " Enderby's
a good fellow, and a straight one. I
dare say he punted a bit when he was at
college, and naturally can't help watching
the old game a little in the papers, and likes
to have a chat about it ; but I certainly don't
agree with you that he does anything of the
kind now."

Parsons are not all saints, as you will
find out, Kinnersley, when you have seen a
little more of the world," rejoined Making
with an air of insufferable superiority ;
and from that out he honoured Maurice
Enderby with a rancorous hatred. From
that out the curate carefully refrained from
joining the billiard-room coterie. But it
was too late ; the scandal had gone forth,
and slowly the story was permeating Tunnel

that Mr. Enderby spent the best part of
his time at the club, talking racing, and, unluckily,
did not confine himself to merely
talking, but was given to backing his
opinion, which would easily account for his
inability to pay his tradespeople.

CHAPTER XVI.

BITTER TONGUES.

The rumour that Mr. Enclerby had taken to
betting, and that the money which should
have gone to his tradesmen was being
frittered away in Turf speculation, having at
length reached the ears of Generals Maddox
and Praun, it naturally had come to the
knowledge of those great conservators of the
morals of Tunnleton, their spouses — and those
two matrons at once agreed that it behoved
them to take steps of some kind. The only

question was what shape should their interference
be couched in. They talked this
over between themselves for some time.
Was it their duty to go direct to the Reverend
Jacob Jarrow, and acquaint him with his
curate's backsliding ? or should they spare
him in the first place, and content themselves
with administering a lecture to Mrs Enderby,
which she could, and no doubt would, pass
on to her husband.

This, after all, struck the two ladies as
the more congenial form of doing their duty
towards their neighbours, and so they resolved
to call upon Bessie.

It was easy to time their call so as to find
Maurice away from home. Tuesday afternoon,
for instance, he was always engaged
at the parish schools, and on that afternoon
accordingly the two matrons laid hands on
the Enderbys' knocker.

Yes, Mrs. Enderby was at home," replied

the neat little servant-maid. u Would
the ladies walk up ? "

Bessie received her visitors with a gaiety
she was far from feeling. She was, in truth,
very uncomfortable about their increasing
liabilities, although she endeavoured to show
it even to her husband as little as possible.
The story of the young Spartan with the
fox beneath his cloak is an everyday occurrence,
as would speedily be made manifest
were the cloaks removed. In the meantime
society demands that we keep our troubles
to ourselves, and look as if we had not a
care upon our minds.

The usual formalities that form the preliminaries
of a conventional call were gone
through, and then the two ladies exchanged
glances, which, being interpreted, mean,
which of us is to open fire ? A significant
nod from Mrs. Praun settled the question,

and then Mrs. Maddox lifted her voice and
spoke —

We have got something to say to you
which it is only right you should hear, Mrs.
En derby. It's a painful story to have to tell
a young wife, but Mrs. Praun and myself
have come to the conclusion that you are
sure to hear of it sooner or later, and it
would be kinder to break it to you at once."

What is it ? What do you mean ? "
cried Bessie, utterly bewildered, and dreading
she knew not what.

The fact is," said Mrs. Maddox, and
here she paused impressively.

Speak ! Good Heavens ! Can't you
speak ? " cried Bessie, excitedly.

"Your husband has taken to betting on
horse-racing ! "

I don't believe it ! " cried Bessie. " He
has never done such a thing since he was
married; and I am certain he would not now

that he has adopted the Church as a profession."


"I only wish it were so," exclaimed
Mrs. Praun, el and it is because he indulges
in this infatuation that he finds it
difficult to meet his creditors' demands."

But the two ladies had a little overestimated
the weakness of the curate's wife.
Bessie sprang to her feet, and said —

Of course, I do not know where you
have obtained your information ; but I tell
you the whole thing is most infamously untrue.


I assure you, Mrs. Enderby, the rumour
is all over Tunnleton."

And I do not care if the rumour is allover
England ! it is still false — shamefully,
disgracefully, untrue. You have thought
proper, madam, to insinuate that we do not
meet our liabilities. Our private affairs arc,
I presume, matters which in no way concern

VOL. I. R

you. My husband, you may depend, will
trace the falsehood to its originator, and
make him answer for it in sometime ! "

Oh, well," said Mrs. Maddox, as she
rose to her feet, her very skirts rustling with
indignation, "if this is the way you treat
friends, anxious to warn you of a coming
peril, and who came here to beseech you to
use your influence with your husband to turn
him from his fatal courses "

Fatal courses!" cried Bessie; "I tell
you this miserable story is untrue. My husband
will know how to defend himself when
the charge comes to his ears, as it will the
moment he comes home. The originators as
well as the disseminators of this scandal had
then better look to themselves, for if I know
Maurice he is far from being the man to
rest quiet under an imputation of this kind."

Oh, well," exclaimed Mrs. Maddox, with
an angry toss of her head, "if our motives

are so utterly misunderstood I think we had
better be going. It is evident, Mrs. Praun,
that we are of no use here. Good-bye, Mrs.
Enderby . I think when you have recovered
your temper you will be more ready to appreciate
our reasons for calling on you."

You are not the first wife, Mrs. Enderby,"
said Mrs. Praun, "who has been deceived by
her husband and awoke one morning to find
him a very different man from what she
imagined him. Good morning."

u We will make it good-bye, if you
please," said Bessie, quietly, as she rang the
bell for the maid to usher out her visitors,
and if ever two ladies had departed from a
house with ruffled plumes it was now.

"A chit of a curate's wife!" exclaimed
Mrs. Maddox, still almost snorting with
indignation.

She has actually had the audacity to

close her acquaintance with us," said Mrs.
r2

Praun, in a voice that trembled with suppressed
passion ; " the little rninx shall soon
see what that means in Tunnleton."

Bessie threw herself back in her chair
with flushed cheeks and heaving breast
when her unwelcome visitors had departed.

"I didn't believe' she muttered, "that
two women could have been so rude to mein
my own drawing-room as they have been ;
as for their foolish charge against Maurice,
thank Heaven I feel no anxiety about that ;
I know too well it is false. I wonder if it
is possible to make a more spiteful remark
than Mrs. Praun did as she left the room.
However*' continued Bessie, with a low
laugh, "I don't think they are likely to
trouble me again."

Maurice was very late returning home
that day, and the reason of it was this : he
had finished his work at the schools when
he recollected that the July Stakes were run

on that afternoon, and that there might
also be some betting upon the " Chesterfields
" telegraphed from Newmarket. He
determined to look in at the club and see
what news the telegram had brought. It
was the moth hovering round the candle.
As he had walked home on the previous
Saturday he had reflected with dismay that
he was beginning to take an interest in
horse-racing incompatible with his profession.
He recognised that it was growing
upon him, that it was absorbing him more
and more ; he could even imagine the fascination
of the pursuit leading him at last to
speculating in money on the correctness of
his own judgment. He was a shrewd, clear-headed
man, and since he had taken to the
close study of the sporting intelligence it
had interested him as men are interested
by double acrostics or other ingenious
puzzles. He had set himself to discover

from their previous performances, and what
he could pick up concerning them in the
papers, which horse would be victorious in
any important race shortly coming off, and,
as is frequently the case with neophytes,
had been rather fortunate in his predictions.
It was true he had prudence enough to keep
these mental speculations to himself, and the
Tunnleton Club was quite unaware of the
new prophet in their midst. It was well it
was so ; the interest he had avowed in turf
matters had already done him sufficient
harm, did he but know it. He had vowed
to himself on Saturday to set foot in the
billiard-room no more ; but the telegram
would be in the hall. There could be no
harm in just looking at it : and, comforting
himself with this little bit of sophistry,
Maurice ran up the club steps.

Deviate a hands-breadth from your good
resolutions and you will find your evil

genius with malignant grin prompt to take
advantage of your frailty, and it was so
upon this occasion.

In the hall, and gathered round the ,
were Dick Madingley, young
Kinnersley, and others of the sporting spirits
of the Tunnleton Club, and naturally they
were discussing the day's doings at Newmarket
with no little animation. Maurice
found himself in the middle of this group
almost before he was aware of it.

Well, Mister Enderby," exclaimed
Madingley, who was one of those pachydermatous
young gentlemen on whom sarcasm
has no more effect than a shower of
rain has on a duck, cl I see they are backing
your fancy for the c Chesterfields ' pretty
freely ; hope you'll have a good race, which
is at all events disinterested on my part,
because if you do I shan't.' 1

I told you on Saturday, Mr. Madingley,

that I never bet on horse-racing, and I amin
the habit of saying what I mean," and
so saying Maurice, without even looking at
the telegram, passed on towards the reading-room.


All right, your reverence," retorted
Dick, "mum's the word as far as I'm
concerned."

"You're too bad, Madingley. Your last
speech was that of a regular cad," said
young Kinnersley.

If that's your opinion, Mr. Kinnersley,
the sooner our acquaintance ceases the
better."

As you like," replied Fred Kinnersley,
turning on his heel ; and the dead silence
that fell upon the group suddenly awoke
Madingley to the fact that he had gone a
little too far.

As General Shrewster said, there was a
cross-drop in young Madingley, and when

that is the case with a man it never shows
itself so conclusively as when he has a little
drink aboard of him.

He had been lounging in the hall, waiting
for the telegram, and killing the time with
divers sherry and bitter ; if it had not been
for these, added to the elation of having
won a bit of money over " the July," he
would hardly have so far forgotten himself
as to make the offensive remarks he had to
Maurice Enderby. But he had the wit to
see that the feeling of his immediate coterie
was all in favour of Kinnersley, and not
of himself. The former was a straightforward
popular young fellow throughout
Tunnleton, and that he was right in the
slight altercation which had taken place
between him and Madingley did not admit
of a doubt. The latter said no more at the
moment, but jumped off the table upon
which he had been sitting in arrogant indolence,

and made his way out of the clubhouse
without further observation.

Confound that fiery sherry," he muttered,
as he strolled homeward. " What an
idiot I was to drink so much of it! The
committee ought to be indicted for keeping
such atrocious alcohol on the premises. I
shall have to tell Kinnersley tomorrow that
I didn't mean what I said ; that it was all
the sherry, and ask him to shake hands. I
can't well afford to quarrel with him ; as for
that clerical prig I hate him ! and what does
he take such an extraordinary interest in
turf affairs for if he don't bet ? "

Maurice in the meantime had gone into
the morning-room, and was destined thereto
encounter that first straw which shows
the way the wind is blowing. Old Praun
was there, fussing and fuming, as was his
wont, but no sooner did he espy Maurice
than a malicious twinkle came into his

fishy grey eyes, and, rising from his chair,
he began to fidget about with his papers.
A few seconds, and he threw the " Sportsman
" across to Maurice, saying —

Dear me, I can't think what has become
of the c World.' However, anyway, I have
found something in your way, Mr. Enderby."

Thank you," replied Maurice quietly,
I'm sorry you should have given yourself
such unnecessary trouble."

Not at all ! not at all ! " returned the
general ; " but I understand that you are
much interested in such matters."

Maurice made no answer, but took up one
of the daily papers. In good truth he did
not know how to reply to General Praun's
innuendo : he was conscious that he had of
late been manifesting an unseemly interest
in horse-racing. The gibes of Dick Making
in the billiard-room on Saturday had
first opened his eyes to the fact that this

hobby of his was exciting comment, and this
mock courtesy of General Praun, whom he
knew disliked him, showed him only too
clearly that his eager reading of the sporting
papers had attracted both attention and
adverse criticism. He would have no more
of it; from this time such papers should
remain a sealed book to him ; he would
carefully eschew all conversation with the
sporting coterie and content himself with an
occasional peep at the racing intelligence of
the " Times." Even that, he thought to
himself, it would be better to pass over ; but
Maurice, although possessing plenty of determination,
was conscious of human frailty.
He knew to read the •' Times," and carefully
abstain from looking at the racing
intelligence, would be beyond him, and
then, as he sat there staring at his paper
without comprehending one line of it,
another thought flashed across his brain.

If this Mr. Madingley was heir to old John
Madingley of Bingwell, it was very odd
that he should not be more accurately
informed about the presumed merits of "The
Wandering Nun." In his position, and
his evidently pronounced taste for the turf,
it was singular he should not take more
interest in his relative's stable. One would
have expected to find him enthusiastic about
her chance of success, instead of which he
persistently ran down her claims. Maurice
was older in thought than in years, and it
struck him that the few friends he had who
possessed relatives that kept race horses
were wont to be over-sanguine about the
prospects of those distinguished animals ;
and then he threw down his paper and
started on his way home.

Bessie jumped up to welcome him as lie
entered the drawing-room.

I am so glad you have returned, dear.

My house has been invaded by the two most
offensive women it has ever been my lotto
encounter. I did not think it possible
that two ladies could be so rude as Mrs.
Maddox and Mrs. Praun were to me
to-day."

Maurice kissed his wife as he said, C( Sit
down, little woman, and tell me all about
it."

And then Bessie told him the story of her
two visitors of the afternoon, and how they
had dared to assert that he, Maurice, was
behindhand with his tradespeople because
he was frittering his income away in betting
on horse-racing. " I told them," she continued,
vehemently, " it was an infamous
falsehood — a falsehood that you were likely
to make those who promulgated it pay
dearly for — of course it is not true,
Maurice ? "

No, I have never bet on a horse-race,
Bessie, since I married you, and very seldom,
and in a very mild way, before. I
have had follies enough, goodness knows,
but that has not been one of them. Still,
Bessie, I have been much to blame ; I have
given a handle to the scandal from my imprudent
hankering after sporting news, arising
from that luckless wedding gift of Uncle
John's. The animal of which you are half
owner is to run the day after tomorrow at
Newmarket, and its success might mean two
or three hundred pounds to us, and just
think what a handful that would be under
present circumstances."

Yes, Maurice dear, but recollect you
were just as sanguine in May, and nothing
came of it. I am very grieved that you
have given those women even a handle for
their falsehoods. I wish Uncle John had

sent me a hundred pounds instead of making
me such an eccentric present''

Perhaps it might have been better, and
after this week I'll try and forget it."

END OF VOL I.



Westminster : Printed by Nichols and Sons, 25, Parliament Street.

— ■'" [ II I I I I I I M I I . I | |l M 1 ,

A :j* f .*> .? .f f > .a J* .>

# •* •• •• «• «• e« »*• «« f # # <£

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

/■ ,/ ^ •/ > > ^ ^ «A ^ ^

«° •• •• •• • « •> »« *• «* ••

^ ^ :^ .^ :^ :f :^ :^ =^ ^ J.

OF Thou

N Diversity

or ILLINOIS

82.3

Inst
V.2

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/falsestartnovel02sma

a Movti

BY

HAWLEY SMART,

AUTHOR OF "Breeze LAXGTOX,'- 'FROM POST TO FINISH.
THE GREAT Textile," Etc ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON: CHAPMAN and HALL
Limited

1887.

Printed BY NICHOLS And SONS,

2.', PARLIAMENT STREET.

^ wi ^ t a

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

CHAPTER I. PAGE

THE CHESTERFIELDS . . 1

CHAPTER II.

EDITH MOLECOMBE 21

CHAPTER III.

'* WHAT A BORE I'VE BEEN ! " . . . . .39

CHAPTER IV.

BITTEN OF THE TARANTULA 58

CHAPTER V.

THE WIRE FROM GOODWOOD . 77

CHAPTER VI.

JOHN MADINGLEY . 95

CHAPTER VII.

AT THE "Bristol'* restaurant . . . . .112

CHAPTER VIII.

MR. MOLECOMBE GETS UNEASY . 131

CHAPTER IX.

the GAME ABOUT UP . . . . . . , 150

CHAPTER X.

FAMILY JARS . , 168

CHAPTER XL

NOTICE TO QUIT 185

CHAPTER XII.

HER HEART FAILED HER

2U4

CHAPTER XIII.
"the SPOTTED dog" . 223

CHAPTER XIV.

BETTER I SHOULD RETIRE NOW . 241

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

The person charging this material is responsible for its

renewal or return to the library on or before the due

date. The minimum fee for a lost item is $125.00,

$300.00 for bound journals.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons

for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from

the University. Please note: self-stick notes may result

in torn pages and lift some inks.

Renew via the Telephone Center a+ 0-1-7 errata.—

VOL. II.

r /nr "sherry and bitters or brandy''
'^' TodL'-W-sheJiesand bitters or brandies

and sodas."
Page asx, line xo,>. "loss of husband" W'loss

of her husband."

CHAPTER I.

THE Chesterfield.

But Maurice, though he might admit to his
wife that he was in some way morally guilty
of the charge preferred against him, was
very indignant that Mesdames Maddox and
Praun should have had the presumption to
come down and lecture Bessie on the subject.
He had quite made up his mind to submit
to no comment on his conduct from anybody
in Tunnleton but the Reverend Jacob

Jarrow. If the rumour, as it infallibly
VOL. II. B

would, reached the ears of the rector, and
that gentleman deemed fit to speak to him
on the subject, well, he would acknowledge
that he had transgressed in some shape
though able to give, an emphatic denial
to the dii-sect charge. As for Bessie being
preached to on the subject that he would
allow from nobody breathing.

He avoided the club all the next day, and
contented himself with such news as he could
extract from the paper he took in. That
morning brought a visit from Mr. Rumford,
who, though quite respectful, was very
earnest in his request for something on account,
and retired evidently but half-satisfied
with the promise that his account should be
settled in the course of the month.

The next day was Thursday, and, as
Maurice knew well, the Chesterfield Stakes
at Newmarket were decided that afternoon.
He determined not to go to the club, he

would wait patiently and learn his fate from

his own paper the next morning. That

afternoon he recognised what the excitement

of wagering on races was and how it was

growing upon him, as dram-drinking or

opium-eating might do, although he was

innocent of actual betting. He went about

his daily work as usual and did it, but in

preoccupied fashion, for his mind was all the

time dwelling on that sunshiny meeting at

the back of the '' Ditch," and wondering

what had been the result of the struggle for

the " Chesterfields."

'rit's terrible ! " he muttered at last. ' ' Do

what I will I cannot throw this thing upon

one side ; we may restrain our passions, but

we cannot control our thoughts. 1 wish

Bessie's uncle had given her some other

wedding present. I do believe — I do

believe it will end in making the Church an

impossible profession for me. I am getting
b2

SO infatuated with it, that I could quite
fancy my being so carried away as to resign
my curacy, and actually take to attending
race meetings. I know — no one better —
that it means nothing but ruin to a poor
man ! that scores every year perish under
the wheels of the Turf Juggernaut. Absurd !
I must shake it off."

He struck across the common, turned
down one of the innumerable country lanes
all fragrant with the scent of the hay and
the summer flowers, and stretched manfully
away for a coujdIo of miles or so ; but it was
of no use. All the way a fiend seemed
whispering in his ear '^ What has won the
Chesterfields ? ' " He turned his face
homewards, and still, as if keeping time
with his footsteps, came the whispered —
'' What — has— won— the— ' Chesterfields ' ?"
All across the common it was the same things
He had determined not to go into the club,

but at last he told himself that it would be
better to know, than to have this irritating
question ringing continuously in his ears.
He broke his resolution turned into the
club, and was a little disconcerted at finding
the sorting coterie gathered together in the
hall. He passed rapidly through them without
glancing afc the telegram board, and made
his way to the morning-room. There he
sat down, and affected to read the papers.
He had made ujd his mind what to do now.
He would wait there for a bit. It was getting
on towards six ; a little later and the
group in the hall would have doubtless dispersed,
and he would then be able to look at
the telegram board unnoticed.

For half-an-hour he fidgeted with the
papers, and then taking his hat he left the
room. As he had expected, the hall was now
clear. No one was there to see him walk

quickly up to the board. His heart gave a
great jump as he gazed at the tissue.
Wandering Nun . . 1

Bajazet 2

Rocket 3

AVon in a canter.
He rushed out of the club and hurried
towards home. What did this mean to him?
He hardly dared to think. John Madingley
had distinctly said that Bessie was to go
halves in all that accrued from the Wandering
Nun's racing career. He knew that the
'^ Chesterfields " was a good stake — did that
mean that Bessie was entitled to half of it ?
If so this probably meant some three or four
hundreds. What a windfall it would be for
them in their present circumstances ; it
would obviate the touching of that money
which he had settled on Bessie ; he would be
able to pay off his tradespeople, and to give
Badger something considerable on account.

^^ How late you are, Maurice ! " exclaimed
Bessie as he entered the drawing-room ;
what can have kept you ? "

'well;' he replied, "1 felt I wanted a
good long walk, so I went for a stretch out
Smithfield way, and as I came back just
looked in at the club ; that remarkable filly
of your uncle's, in which you are supposed
to have a vested interest, has won a big
race at Newmarket ; whether that means
anything to you or not, of course I do not
know."

'^I am sure I don't' replied Bessie; ^'but
I should think probably it means a present
of some sort ; Uncle John is a man who
doesn't talk at random, but always means
what he says. But I wish, Maurice,
you were not so interested in racing."

^' I'm going to drop it from this out,'
replied Maurice, ^'but I could not help a
feverish anxiety to see if '^ The Wandering

Nun " won to-day at Newmarket. Well,
she has, and now I will shut my eyes to
her further proceedings."

As might have been expected, the mal-practices
of his curate were speedily reported
to Mr. Jarrow. To do that gentleman
justice he manifested considerable incredulity.


^' It may be as you say, General Maddox,
and I shall regret very much if it is so,
but I can hardly believe that a man of
refined, cultivated taste, like Mr. Enderby,
should fritter away his talents on such a
profitless and unintellectual pursuit as
horse-racing. Mr. Enderby entered at once
into all the incisive logic and satire of
the Verity Letters, and has besides literary
ambitions of his own. Some of his work
which I have had the privilege of perusing
is, I assure you, very passable indeed for a
young hand. He is most attentive to his

parish duties, and, though he is certainly
not so jDOjDular in the pulpit as Mr. Lomax,
yet I think there is more stuff in his sermons.
Of course I shall speak to him on the subject;
it is only right that a man should
have a chance of refuting a scandal such
as this is, for a scandal it is to one of our
cloth. He may not know that the report
is afloat concerning him."

I feel sure he is perfectly aware of it,"
replied the general sententiously, ^' and he
has taken no steps to justify himself in
any way."

The Reverend Mr. Jarrow was a pompous
and not particularly wise man, but one
thing he was always quite clear about, namely,
that the Church was not to be hectored over or
dictated to b}^ the laity. He was as arbitrary
and jealous of the powers of the Church as
Cardinal Wolsey, and tolerated no interference
with his parish on the part of any of his

parishioners. He was well to do, having a
comfortable private income besides his living,
and was no niggard with regard to the
spending of money on his cure, but he
invited no co-operation on the part of the
wealthier of his flock that was not to be
under his immediate control. He had spent
and raised money to decorate his church
and improve his schools, but he had stedfastly
insisted upon dictating as to how it
should be expended. He was sure to stand
by any curate of his who was attacked by
the laity, more especially when the charge
was proffered by one of the chiefs of that
military hierarchy at whose presence in
Tunnleton the reverend gentleman so persistently
chafed.

It was the week succeeding the Newmarket
races that General Maddox spoke
to Mr. Jarrow. The general was of course
aware of what had taken place between his

wife and sirs. Enderby, and was quite as
indignant on his part as Maurice was. He
considered it a great piece of condescension
that Mrs. Maddox should have taken the trouble
to call upon Mrs. Enderby, acquaint her
with her husband's iniquities, and implore
her to use her influence to turn him from the
error of his ways.

^^ I should like to know what more a
kind-hearted woman could have done, and,
by Jove, instead of being grateful, Mrs.
Enderby actually flouts her, flouts her, sir,
flouts my wife, Mrs. Maddox."

In fact, the two generals were both
furious, and went about trumpeting in their
wrath like wild elephants. A version of the
scene in Mrs. Enderby's drawing room was
all over the town by this time, and it was
generally known that lady had behaved with
extreme rudeness to Mrs. Maddox and Mrs.
Praun simply because they had endeavoured

to persuade her to exercise her influence over
her husband to induce him to refrain from
speculation on horse-racing. The tide was
running strong against the Enderbys. The
Torkeslys and other members of the community
expressed their opinion that there
was nothing for Mr. Enderby but to resign,
he could never hope to be of any use in his
vocation at Tunnleton. Dick Madingley
took advantage of the popular outcry against
the curate to throw his stone at him. He
had made up his difference with Kinnersley,
and finding that he was a stanch believer in
Madingley was careful what he said before
him. But Kinnersley, not being present, he
did not scruple to remark to that sporting
coterie of which he was the acknowledged
oracle,

^' He's a knowing shot the parson. I don't
know where he got his inspiration, but Mr.
Brooks's Wandering Nun for the ' Chesterfields'

was about one of the best things of the
season. He don't bet, not he, oh no. Quite
right to say so in his position, and I was a
fool to chaff him about it. All the fault of
that confounded sherry and bitters. Dashed
if I don't think they distil that sherry on the
premises, it is so strong. But you can't make
me believe he hadn't a pretty good win over
it, I've seen rather to much of life for that.
It's not in human nature to have such a bit
of information and not make money of it."

Mr. Madingley, I am afraid, had considerable
experience of the shady side of life, and
was far from placing a high estimate on the
morality of his fellows.

But the Enderbys were by no means
friendless, and the Chyltons, with whom they
had been intimate from the ^ first, stood
gallantly by them now. Frank Chylton,
when the rumour first reached his ears,
said stoutly, he did not believe it, and then

went straight to Maurice and told him what
people were saying concerning him.

^^ There is not a word of truth in it' rejoined
the curate. ^' I may have given some
little handle for such a falsehood to get about
by foolishly talking about racing to some of
the men at the club, but I have never made
a bet of any description since I left the University,
which was before I was married."

^' It is very odd such a report should have
got about," replied Frank, '•'' but I felt sure it
was false before I saw you, and now 1 have
your own word for it I shall give it the most
unqualified contradiction wherever I hear it
alluded to."

The Eeverend Mr. Jarrow took an early
opportunity of speaking to his curate about
this unfortunate rumour as he termed it, and
Maurice answered him as frankly as he had
done Chylton.

'^Ah, Mr. Enderby, I felt sure I could

rely upon you, and I shall have the greatest
possible pleasure in requesting General
Maddox not to intrude upon my valuable
time with such idle cards in future. A
venial imprudence sou may have been
guilty of, but that is a very different thing
from the accusation they would fain lay at
your door. I would recommend you to bea
little more guarded all the same in future,"
and the rector departed, burning to tackle
General Maddox and demand retractation of
his charges on that gentleman's part.

A veritable storm in a tea-cup all this,
no doubt, but it is precisely such little convulsions
that constitute the salt of existence
in small country towns. Questions of the
kind are to them what a strenuous battle
between the Government and the Opposition
may be in the House of Commons, and
Tunnleton was literally divided into two
camps on the subject of Maurice End^rby's

iniquities. Generals Maddox and Praun
were the leaders of one party, who received
the assertion of his innocence with polite
incredulity, while the Eeverend Mr. Jarrow
and Frank Chylton championed him with
perhaps more zeal than discretion. Singularly
enough, too, there was quite a bitter
feeling engendered on the subject amongst
the community, for, while the one side held
that if you believed in Mr. Enderby's innocence,
well, then, you would probably believe
anything, the other contended that you
must be malicious, spiteful, and uncharitable
if you doubted the word of a gentleman of
unblemished repute.

Nobody, perhaps, contributed more to
keep the scandal alive than Mr. Richard
Madingley. He was a very popular character
in Tunnleton just now, as a well-to-do
young bachelor who entertained liberally
might well be. There were very few young

ladies in the town who would not have
thought twice before saying no to an offer
of occupying the top of his table for life.
Dick Madingley was quite aware of this,
and gave himself great airs in society inconsequence,
and society bore with them, as
it usually does with the impertinences
of young gentlemen of substance.

We have so far seen Madingley under
rather unfavourable circumstances, but it
must not be supposed that his manner was
so coarse and obtrusive generally as it had
been in the Tunnleton Club. In vino Veritas
is a very true saying, and it is probable that
sherry-and-bitters or brandy-sodas had much
to say to his want of breeding upon those
occasions ; still, upon this topic of Enderby's
offending he had always something to say ;
he was as vindictive a man as ever stepped,
and had never forgiven Enderby's rebuff in
the billiard-room.

VOL. II. c

'' My dear Miss Torkesly/' lie would say,
'^ don't ask me what I think; as a man of
the world, when a gentleman informs me
that a horse, that has never rmi, will win a
big race, I invariably conclude he is in
possession of private information ; when I
see him feverishly anxious about the betting
previous to that race, and about the result,
I can only conclude that he has very
naturally made use of his information.
Whether that is a right thing to do fora
clergyman I don't pretend to determine ;
it's a question I leave to older heads than
mine''

This was the line that Mr. Madingley
adopted,

^^ The evidence is all against him but
still I will not say he is guilty."

It was two days after Maurice's interview
with Mr. Jarrow that, upon coming
down to breakfast, he found Bessie seated

at the table, an open letter in her hand, and
a face in which surprise, exultation, and
dismay were strangely mingled.

'^ Maurice," she said, ''I have got a letter
from Uncle John, and I don't quite know
whether to be pleased or sorry about it."

^' From Uncle John ? Let me see it."

She handed him the letter without another
word.
'^ My dear Bessie,

'' Our joint property has turned out a
veritable flyer, and I honestly believe just
now is about the best two-year-old in
England. The Wandering Nun won her
race last week at Newmarket with consummate
ease, and there were some very
fair youngsters behind her.

^^ I hope you and your husband like ,

and are pretty comfortable there.

It is many years ago since I saw it —

more years indeed than I care to think
c 2

of. I recollect it is very pretty but very
quiet.

^' I inclose you a cheque for your half of
the Chesterfields, and trust that if she goes
on well the Nun will prove a gold-mine to
both of us.

'' Best love to yourself, and with kind
regards to your husband,
^^ Believe me,

'^ Ever, dear Bessie,

'" Your affectionate Uncle,

'' John Madingley."
And what's the cheque for ? " asked
Maurice.

'' Here it is' she replied, handing it him.
Maurice quite started as he gazed upon it.
Five hundred and fifty-seven pounds," he
murmured slowly.

CHAPTER II,

EDITH MOLECOMBE.

'^ What did you mean by saying you didn't
know whether to be glad or sorry ? " asked
Maurice, as soon as he had recovered from
this first surprise.

^' It looks rather as if the charge brouo^-ht
against you by these two terrible women
was true, doesn't it ? "

'^ It does rather'' replied Maurice, smiling,
as he dropped the cheque into his waistcoat-pocket,
^^ but we know that it is not so.

I have a perfectly clear conscience on that
score, and just think, Bessie, what we can do
with the money. It will put us perfectly
straight with the Tunnleton tradespeople — no
bother about writing to your trustees now,
my dear — enable me to stop) Badger's mouth
with a handsome cheque on account, and
leave us a comfortable balance besides in the
local bank.

But what will Mr. Chylton think when
you cash the cheque, Maurice ? You know
you have never told him anything about
Uncle John's wedding present. He believes
thoroughly in you, but the presenting such a
big cheque as this on the toby of this charge
will look so dreadfully as if you had won the
money by betting."

^^ What a clever little woman it is ! " rejoined
Maurice, admiringly. ^^You are
right ; it would. I will take it up and get
it cashed at my banker's in town''

This Maurice accordingly did, but he then
committed the strange oversight of paying
two hundred pounds into his account at the
Tunnleton Bank. This was even more
likely to induce the people at the bank to
put a false construction on his sudden acquirement
of money than if he had put in
John Madingley's cheque. The story of the
sporting parson who had won such a good
stake over the Chesterfields was by this
well known to the inferior strata of Tunnel
; the bank clerks looked upon Maurice,
not with the horror of Generals Maddox and
Praun, but with no little admiration. The
ostler and the fly-drivers had by this time
heard of Mr. Enderby as a rare judge of
racing, and accorded him no little veneration
in consequence. He had mounted a far
higher pinnacle in the eyes of these godless
understrappers of the stable than any eloquence
in the pulpit could ever have placed

him on. Sad to say, they took more interest
in the ways of this world than in the preparing
of themselves for another.

Mr. Rumford, the butcher, and his brethren,
when they found all their arrears promptly
discharged, were similarly convinced that the
report of Mr. Enderby's racing proclivities
was true, and these good people received it
and looked upon it in very different lights ;
some of them laughed, and thought a sporting
curate rather a joke than otherwise ; but
there were other more straitlaced who shook
their heads at the idea of a clergyman
dabbling in such a pursuit ; the opinion
of these latter somewhat mollified by the
comforting fact that they had at all events
got their money. In short, at the end of a
fortnight from that Newmarket week Maurice
Enderby might as well have endeavoured
to convert the betting-ring as to
induce the bulk of Tunnleton to believe that

he did not bet upon races. Even his stanch
friend Frank Chylton was staggered ; he
naturally knew that Maurice had paid in
two hundred pounds to his account, and in
face of the charge brought against him there
could be no doubt that this was a most
suspicious circumstance; he was loyal to his
friend as ever, but did think that out of
consideration for those who were standing
by him Maurice should be more prudent.
Frank saw at once that the payment of this
two hundred would be known to all the
clerks in the bank, and, though his subordinates
knew very well that keeping their
mouths closed was rigorously exacted by
their position, he had no doubt that with
such a titillating piece of scandal flying
about the town they would never be able to
refrain from contributing their quota to it.

Maurice, in the mean time, pursued the
even tenoiu' of his wav. He had laid out

his windfall exactly as he had contemplated.
Mr. Badger was profuse in his acknowledgments,
and his tradesmen were all chapeau
has J and that balance at the bank was a comforting
thing to think upon ; but for all that
he could not disguise from himself that a
considerable portion of Tunnleton society
gave him the cold shoulder. Their greetings
were chilly, and he was apt to find himself
left out of the delirious gaieties of that centre
of the universe. One of his enemies there
was who certainly retired from the fray
sore discomfited. In an ill-advised moment
General Maddox took upon himself to read
this contumacious young man a lesson on
manners.

I don't think the general ever forgot that
fall, and, were he alive, I think, would even
still give a slight shudder at hearing Maurice
Enderby's name mentioned. It took place
in the club, though not before witnesses.

General Maddox was far too gentlemanly a
man to have spoken as he did except in
private.

^^ Mr. Enderby ! er, er ! you'll excuse my
mentioning it, but when a lady of Mrs. Maddox's
position takes the trouble to call upon
Mrs. Enderby, with the kind view of tendering
her some good advice, I really think she
is entitled to be treated with civility and
consideration."

Maurice's face hardened, and there was a
dangerous glitter in his eye as he replied,

Mrs. Maddox, sir, entered Mrs. Enderby's
drawing-room apparently to malign her
husband : she was ruder, as was also Mrs.
Praun, than I had believed it possible that
any lady could be. I have further to point
out that my private affairs are no business
of yours, and I will trouble you not to meddle
with them for the future."

^' Sir ! " exclaimed General Maddox, '^ do
you mean to insinuate "

'' I insinuate nothing," interposed Maurice
quickly. ^'I have said what 1 meant to say,
and am now going to lunch, and have the
honour to wish you good morning."

As for General Maddox, he sank back in
an arm-chair, gasping with indignation. His
usual shortly presence was in a state of collapse
pitiable to witness ; it was probably a
quarter of a century since any one had presumed
to tackle the pompous old general in
this fashion.

*' By Jupiter ! I'll have him out' he muttered
at last, ignoring for the moment that
the duel was as obsolete in England as the
tilt-yard, and that even in its most flourishing
days the priest's cassock carried exemption.
After a little he got up, and as he
walked home said, " No! there is only one

thing to do, hunt the fellow out of Tunnel
; and, by Jupiter! I'll do it."

The glorious eJuly days rolled sunnily by,
and the country around Tunnleton is in all
its glory. The woods and fields are full of
wild flowers, and the hedges thick with dog-roses
and wild honey-suckle, the meadows
alive with sturdy lambs, and the corn, though
standing strong and green upon the ground,
yet here and there begins to show slight
indications of changing to a golden hue.

The parade is deserted, and nothing but
the severe exigencies of shopping bring the
fair ladies of Tunnleton to the High Street.
The hum of insects is in the air, the very
birds give vent to low querulous twittering
as if entering their protest about the state of
the thermometer. The cattle stand languidly
switching their tails till the aggressive army
of flies proves too much for their patience,
when they stamjDede in wild ungainly gallops

round their pastures. Tunnleton lies at the
bottom of a basin, and consequently the
little air there is barely reaches it. The
shopkeepers stand sweltering in their shirt-sleeves
at their doors ; no one would think of
buying and selling, save from dire necessity,
in such weather. The dogs lie upon the
door-steps with their lolling tongues and
panting sides, mutely appealing in their
canine breasts against the irony of dedicating
such days peculiarly to them. It is
one of those glorious old English summers
such as are all but dim memories.

Tunnleton society has betaken itself to
the open air. It is cricketing, ,
picnicking, munching fruit and consuming
claret-cup. There were perpetual open-air
gatherings of one sort or another, and
Maurice Enderby could not but see that
from a great many of these his wife and
himself were excluded; there could be no

doubt of it ; people who had called upon them
in the first instance, and who had appeared
anxious to make their acquaintance, now
neglected to ask them to such entertainments
as they might be giving. It did not
require much penetration to see that there
was a hostile influence at work, and that
he had made implacable enemies of the two
generals he felt no doubt. Of course, the
rector, his friends the Chyltons, and some
others welcomed him as cordially as of yore,
but amongst the people who had not exactly
dropped his acquaintance, but had apparently
struck him off their invitation list,
Maurice was a little surprised to find the
Molecombes. Mr. IVIolecombe was the
senior partner in Molecombe and Chylton's
bank, and had, on Frank Chylton's representation,
been one of the first people to
call and osier civility to the Enderbys ;
however, of the cause of their defection he
was destined to be speedily enlightened.

He was passing through the deserted
High Street on one of those errands that
formed part of his daily work, when he
encountered one of the Miss Torkeslys ;
as before said, no one ever went out in
Tunnleton without meeting a Torkesly.

'' Good morning, Mr. Enderby," she exclaimed,
with all the volubility characteristic
of her race. ^^ Have you heard the
news ? "

"No," replied Maurice, as he shook hands;
^' I was not aware that there was anything
stirring — not even a breeze," he added,
smiling.

^' Oh yes, I assure you, Mr. Enderby, a
marriage — a real marriage. And I suppose
it will take place in the autumn. She is
such a nice girl and I am so fond of her.
I am going up now to congratulate her.
I am sure they must be pleased I A young
good-looking husband with lots of money,

what more could anyone want. I don't
believe she cares much about him, you
know. And I should think she is a good
deal older than he is, but it will do all
very well no doubt, and I am sure I am
delighted. And, you know, it really was
getting time dear Edith was settled."

'^ Excuse me, Miss Torkesly, but I really
have no idea of whom you are speaking."

'^No, I forgot you don't go about quite
so much as you — I mean — that is, you
gentlemen don't interest yourselves so much
in marriages and engagements as we do."

'' But won't you enlighten my ignorance
? " replied Maurice.

^' Of course, of course — you will be delighted
to hear it, such friends as they are
of yom's, and you so intimate with the
Chyltons, and all ! "

Maurice said nothing. He felt that this
feminine wind-bag must have its way.

VOL. II. D

*' Yes," continued the young lady, complacently
; '' Edith Molecombe has accepted
Mr. Madingley, and of course, the wedding
will be a very grand affair when it does
come off; and I do hope they will ask us
to the breakfast. Good morning. I really
have no time to stand gossiping," and with
a gracious smile and bend of her head Miss
Torkesly resumed her weary pilgrimage —
for the Molecombes lived about a mile outside
the town, and under that fierce midday
sun the walk thither was really no small
sacrifice at the altar of friendship.

'' Yes," muttered Maurice, as he strolled
on, '^ that would easily account for the
Molecombes dropping me. I know Mr.
Madingley has never forgiven me for putting
him down, and, without knowing anything
positive about it, I should guess he
had the capacity of being what Dr. Johnson
admired, ' a good hat 67' ^"^ " and then Maurice

thought later in the afternoon he would
stroll up to the Chyltons and have a talk
with them. So when the sun waxed low
in the heavens, dropping like a ball of fire
into his bed in the west, Maurice and his
wife started for the Chyltons. They lived
in a pretty villa standing in the middle of
a large garden. To say grounds would bea
misnomer, it was really nothing more
than an extensive garden — well scrubbed,
well treed, and tastefully laid out. Sitting
under a horse chesnut on the verge of the
flower-gemmed lawn was Mrs. Chylton, a
tea-equipage at her side, and her two children
playing at her feet.

'' I am so glad to see you, Bessie," she
cried, as she rose to welcome the newcomer,
^' and you too, Mr. Enderby. How
good of you to come up and lighten my
solitude ! I was suffering from a bad headache
in the early part of the afternoon, and
D 2

SO give up all thoughts of the Molecombes'
garden-party. By the way, how is it that
you are not there ? "

'^ For the best of all possible reasons — we
were not asked," rejoined Bessie.

Mrs. Chylton said nothing more, but she
was a firm friend of the Enderbys, and
resolved to take the earliest opportunity of
favouring the Molecombe family with her
opinion on the subject.

'^ I suppose you were very much astonished
at the announcement of Edith's
engagement ? " said she.

'' Well, yes ; but, as I only know Mr.
Madingley by sight, I was not likely to
have any suspicion of what was coming."

'^ No," interposed Maurice, '^ and then, as
you know, Mrs. Chylton, in consequence of
my quarrel with Generals Maddox and
Praun, a good many houses in the place
are now closed to me."

'' Yes they no doubt have considerable
influence in Tunnleton, and a certain number
of people would be sure to take their
side, but after the shameful conduct of their
wives I don't see, Mr. Enderby, that you
could have done anything else."

'^ No, a man cannot allow his wife to be
insulted. General Maddox further had the
presumption to attempt to lecture me upon
keeping my wife in order."

What ! " cried Laura Chylton.

'' He had. That really was the gist of a
conversation he thought proper to commence
with me when we found ourselves left together
the next day in the morning-room of
the club, but I don't think he is likely to try
his hand at that again," and then Maurice
gave Mrs. Chylton an account of that interview.


Mrs. Chylton burst out laughing when
Maurice described with a good deal of

humour the conclusion of his passage of
arms with the general.

'soh, Mr. Enderby!" she cried; ^^ did
you really say that to him ? He will never
forgive you. I don't suppose his dignity
has received such a shock for years ; and
General Maddox without his dignity is
nothing. Frank must hear this — it will be
nearly the death of him ; he'll be home from
the Molecombes about seven. If you can
put up with cold lamb and salad for dinner,
be good people and stop. It's not sermon
night, Mr. Enderby, so you have no
excuse''

'' I shall be very glad indeed," said
Maurice.

^^ Now that's neighbourly," replied Laura.
^^ Smoke if you want to ; you'll find the
papers and magazines in Frank's room.
Bessie and I are going to have a good long
lazy gossip."

CHAPTER III.

WHAT A BORE i've BEEN."

Frank Chylton came home to diner, and
as his wife prophecies, laughed till the tears
ran down his cheeks at Maurice's account of
his skirmish with General Maddox.

''I don't blame you," he said; ^^ old
Maddox richly deserved it, but it isn't calculated
to quench the ill-will with which he
regards you. No, depend upon it, he and
his immediate friends will make the very
most of this trumped-up story, and they canto

some extent, make the place unpleasant to
you, no doubt."

*^ We must endeavour to bear his enmity
with what resignation we can. If his friendship
is to be burdened with a right to
administer advice on the part of Mrs. Maddox,
I infinitely prefer to be without it— eh,
Bessie?"

'eyes," replied Mrs. Enderby, laughing
merrily, '* I am quite content to figure as
the bad child who wouldn't take its powder
in spite of all assurances that it was for its
good. I suppose they were very full of
Edith's engagement this afternoon ? "

^^ Yes, it was a perfect /e^^ dejoie of congratulations.
She looked hajDpy and conscious,
and Madingley more at his ease and
less of a fool than a man usually does under
the circumstances."

'^ Is Mr. Molecombe very pleased, Frank ? "
inquired his wife.

*^ Very, I should say — ^ Very satisfactory,
good county family, heir to a nice property
yes, thank you, it will do, Chylton, ' he
replied, when I congratulated him. You
know his short jerky manner of talking."

^^ Well, I suppose it is a good thing for
her," rejoined Laura, '' though personally
I can't say I ever quite fancied Mr.
Madingley — I can't tell you wh}^, but it
is so."

•^I think I can, Mrs. Chylton, but pray
put no particular stress upon my opinion, as
I'll admit to being somewhat prejudiced
against him. What you are conscious of is
this — that Mr. Madingley is not quite a
gentleman."

'^ You are right, Maurice," replied her
husband. '^ He opened a very liberal account
with us when he first came, and, as far
as money is concerned, there is no reason to
suppose but what he has plenty ; but you're

right, it crops out whenever you have much
to do with him. Once get through the
French polish, and you'll find an arrogant
cad at the bottom of it."

'' Come, Bessie," cried Laura Chylton,
laughing ; ^' when the gentlemen ger so very
pronounced in their opinions, it is best to
leave them to themselves 'ere worse comes
of it."

^' Now Maurice," said Frank, as soon as
the ladies had left the room, ^' I've something
on my mind concerning you. I hate mysteries
and therefore I'm going to out with it
at once. I don't want in the least to pry
into your private affairs, but what induced
you in the face of this scandal to pay 200 Z.
into our bank last week? Of course, Mole-combe
knows it, and, forgive me if it sounds
like an impertinence, it is a big sum for a
man in your position to lodge to his account,
and I need hardly say gives additional

handle to the story of your having won
money by horse-racing."

'^ Stupid of me ! " exclaimed Maurice, ^^ I
wanted cash to draw against, to satisfy my
tradespeople; I came unexpectedly into some
money, and, never thinking of the construction
you have put upon it, paid into your
bank."

Frank Chylton said nothing, but he
looked uneasily at his companion. Maurice
caught the glance, hesitated for a minute or
two, and then said,

'•' You've been a stanch friend, Frank,
and are entitled to know the whole story,
and, providing you will give me your promise
not to open your lips without my permission,
I will tell it you''

Chylton readily gave the required promise,
and then, without further preamble, Maurice
related the story of Uncle John's eccentric

wedding present, and what bad come of it
so far,

Frank listened attentively.

'^ I don't know anything about such
things'' he said, when Maurice had finished?
^' but how it led you to take an interest in
racing matters is very easy of comprehension.
In that respect it has been perhaps an unfortunate
gift, but, so far as I do understand
things, from a money point of view, it is
likely to be very profitable. This successful
filly has only just started on her career,
and will probably win several more valuable
races before she has done. I have only one
thing to say, don't think that I'm preaching,
but for heaven's sake don't place reliance on
big cheques like this tumbling in. That
would sap the marrow of an}^ man's character,
and it is after all the hazard of two or
three years. It's moral gambling, Maurice,
and your uncle had better have written you

a cheque for five hundred right o& than
made Mrs. Enderby such an ill-omened
present. Forgive me, old man. What a
bore I have been ! Come and have a cigar on
the lawn before you trot home."

It was a very pleasant hour that, in the
garden, in the bright light of the full moon.
Frank and Maurice strolled up and down
enjoying their tobacco, and talking over their
old boyish days, when Maurice used to comedown
to spend his Easter holidays at Tunnel
; while the ladies interchanged those confidences
which it is seldom the sex has not at
command. Ah, those boyish days ! I am not
quite sure whether we ever experience the
same pure, unadulterated enjoyment afterwards.
I am not talking of school days, in
which there was more to loathe than to like,
but of those holiday times when we were permitted
our own sweet will, and were up at
daybreak to take up the night-lines. Then

there were birds' nests and wasps' nests to betaken
in the morning, countless occupations
for the afternoon if our restless energies
were not expended, and rabbits to be potted
with the old single barrel we were allowed
in the gloaming. That grim piece of irony,
the holiday-task, did not exist in those days,
or if it did was a little joke between master
and boy, supposed to pacify parents in wet
weather, when their progeny made themselves
more objectionable than usual in consequence
of enforced confinement, but never
to be seriously alluded to on returning to
school.

As they walked home Maurice said to his
wife,

^' I have had it clean out with Frank
Chylton, Bessie, and told him the whole
story. He a little staggered me ; he seems to
regard your uncle's as the gift of the wicked

fairy, and is a little clisj)osecl to take your
view of it''

'' Oh, I hose not, Maurice. I own I was
afraid at first it was leading you to take an
interest in matters that would be destructive,
to say nothing of disgraceful, to your professional
career. But you have given that
up, have you not ? "

Yes, but I'll admit the poison is hardly
out of my blood. It is with great difficulty
I abstain from the sporting papers, and in
our own daily I never can resist the sporting
intelligence. Is there inflammatory action
in money that comes to one in this wise ?
On my word, I am half-tempted to believe
it. Bessie, Bessie, I am afraid this fatal
present of Uncle John's will be the ruin
of me I "

^' Nonsense, Maurice, dear, you're excited
to-night and taking too strained a view of
things. I know I took the theoretical and

high-toned view at first, but, oh, Maurice,
when it comes to the practice, there is no
denying there's a comfort in money that's
not dishonestly come by. To walk into
Rumford's shop now is so different to what
it was a fortnight ago. Take Uncle John's
present, as we should take it, as windfalls
by no manner of means to be reckoned on.
Don't trouble your head about the Wandering
Nun, and then, dear Maurice, no harm can
come to you."

Poor Bessie ! She spoke as a woman will
speak, or, for the matter of that, men too,
about a thing outside her experience ; as if
nine men out of ten, who have made a
tolerable bet on the Derby or drawn a
prominent favourite in a Derby sweep, do
not, more or less, speculate upon what they
will do with those imaginary winnings.
They may deny it, but I know better, and
have even had many invitations to dinners

from sanguine backers, dinners which, sad
to say for their sakes, were never celebrated.
When the Enderbjs reached home they
found a heap of letters on their table ; of
these, three only have anything to do with
this story, but with these three it is necessary
the reader should be acquainted ; one
was to Maurice, the others to his wife ; we
will take Mrs. En derby's first.
^^ My deaf. Bessie,

^' You and T are halves in the greatest
flyer of the year. There will be another
sugar-plum fall into our mouths, I think, at
Goodwood, and perhaps something more
later on, though you know racing is both,
like life, uncertain and desperately wicked.
You must forgive an old man, my dear ;
people were laxer in their ideas when I was
young, and I am too old to change; I've
done and do my duty conscientiously in my

VOL. II. E

own way, but my ways, I know, are not in
accordance with the times.

'^ What I am writing to you chiefly about
is this. Can you put up with an old, somewhat
irritable, old man after Groodwood ? I am
ordered change and quiet, and, though I
hare no business to be seen on a race-comes,
must go there to see my favourite run.
Tunnleton suited me years ago, and the
doctors tell me will now, and that the iron-water
is just the tonic I require. They
must say something, but of course what I
do require is the hands of the clock put
back a quarter of a century.

'^ Drop me a line to the Bedford, Covent
Garden, and tell your husband he's not
to fidget about wine ; I am peculiar in that
respect, and my own wine-merchant will
send down what is good for me, or at all
events what 1 take. If you can't take mem.
get me comfortable lodgings near, and.

upon second thoughts, perhaps that would
be best, though I should like to dine, &c.
with you for the sake of your society. You
have a baby, you know, and the most
estimable babies will give vent to screams
and failings, which no bachelor, much less
an old one, appreciates.

'^ Kind regards to your husband,
^' Ever, dear Bessie,

^' Your affectionate Uncle
'' John Madingley."

^^We can't well take him in, Maurice.
He will require a couple of rooms to make
him thoroughly comfortable ; besides, I
should be on tenterhooks every time "

^^ Baby lifted ujd his voice and wept,"
interposed Maurice, laughing, '^ and it
is not to be supposed that young autocrat
is going to change his habits to accommodate
a great uncle. No. No, Bessie, I'll

get a comfortable bedroom and sitting-room

E 2

at Bevan's close by. He can lunch, dine, and
spend as much of the evening as he chooses
with us, and will have his own rooms to retreat
to whenever he wants to be quiet. It
will all work very well, only, little woman,
don't spare the table money while Uncle
John's with us."

^^ Never fear," replied Bessie, merrily, " we
will go in for riotous living, which will probably
throw out his gout, and bring down a
solemn anathema on your devoted head.
Who is your other letter from ? "

'' This," said Bessie, as she tore it open,
'^ is from the Bridge Court people. They

really are very kind — read it "

'' Dear Mrs. Enderby,

'' Will you both come and spend next
week with us? Your husband's old friend
Mr. Grafton has promised to pay us a visit,
and I am sure will enjoy a talk over old
days with him. Pray tell Mr. Enderby I

can take no refusal. If his duties require
his presence in Tunnleton, he can walk
over after breakfast, and be out again
easily in time for dinner. I guarantee
that his days shall be at his own disposal if
necessary.

^' With kindest regards from both myself
and the girls, believe me,

^' Sincerely yours,

^^ Louisa B alders."

'' Bridge Court, Tuesday.

*'P.S. Let us know when I am to send the

carriage for you on Monday''

^' It is very kind of them, and would be a
very pleasant change, I should like it immensely,
but I suppose it cannot be managed''
said Bessie.

'^ Why not ? " rejoined her husband.

'^ Well, you see, Uncle John is coming; it
is impossible we can go away for a week
under those circumstances,"

^^ Nonsense ! this is for next week ; Uncle
John is not coming until the week after
Goodwood — three weeks hence. No, it will
all fit in very well, write and say we shall
be delighted to come ; as Mrs. Balders said,
I can easily walk over and do my work."

'' But who is your letter from, Maurice ? "
replied Bessie.

•^'^ Oh, I had quite forgotten all about that.
In the excitement produced by Uncle John's
determination to visit Tunnleton, I might
well forget everything else ; you seem to
forget that I have never seen this mysterious
uncle, who, like the uncle of the old comedies
or the beneficent genii of fairy tales, showers
his gold upon us. My letter ? why it's from
Bob Grafton ; let's see what he has got to
say. '

46, Half-Moon Street.

'^ Dear Maurice,

No end of congratulations on the result

of the Chesterfields. Mr. Brook, there is no
doubt, possesses a real clinker in the ' Wandering
Nun.' I remember a wily old racing
man once said to me, ' There is no much
better chance for a backer of horses than the
getting knowledge of a good two-year old
and following it steadily all through the
season. Now that is exactly your position.
You are following what I firmly believe to
be the best two-year old we have seen, with
the additional advantage of not risking a
shilling."

'^ I wish Mr. Grafton wouldn't write in
that manner," interposed Bessie.

^^ Don't interrupt," rejoined her husband.

'^ John Madingley's was an eccentric
wedding present, but on my word it promises
to turn out a very profitable one, and a very
useful one, no doubt in these early days of
your career, when a few extra hundreds
naturally come in handy. The Ham Stakes

at Goodwood lie at her mercy, and I can't
see what is to beat her in '^ the Champagnes "
at Doncaster , and to wind up with she has
several engagements in the October meetings
at Newmarket, though what she will be slipped
for one can't tell at present. She is likely
anyway to prove a veritable gold-mine to
Messrs. Enderby and Brook. I was going
to volunteer myself as a visitor for a night
or two next week, but I have had a letter
from Mrs. Balders asking me to Bridge
Court, and assuring me that I should meet
you both ; so we will have our gossip
there, and I will describe the ' Nun ' to
you. She takes after her sire, and gallops
like a piece of machinery.

^^ Good-bye for the present. Trusting to
see you next week, and with kind regards
to Mrs. Enderby, believe me ever yours,
'^ Egbert Grafton."

I shall be very pleased to meet Mr

Grafton again' said Bessie, '' but Maurice,
dear, don't be angry if I give one word of
caution. I know you will have some racing
talk with Mr. Grafton ; but please don't talk
about it in public. You know what a scandal
is already raised here, and, though the
Bridge Court people are not so particular,
yet it is wonderful how things get round,
and it really is calculated to do you harm
in your profession."

Maurice made no reply. ^' Do him harm
in his profession ! " Suddenly it flashed
across him whether he had not made a mistake
; whether he could ever be fitted for
the high office he had taken on himself ; or
whether it would not be better to pause
before seeking to be ordained priest.

CHAPTER IV.

BITTEN OF THE TARANTULA.

Having read the papers, and pronounced
his views on the political situation in those
grave sonorous tones to which the club
morning-room was so well accustomed,
General Maddox shouldered his white umbrella,
and made his way home to luncheon.
He saw as he entered his dining-room that
Mrs. Maddox was evidently in what he
termed a state of fuss.

^^ General," she exclaimed, ^^I have had

one of the Torkesly girls here this morning,
and you will hardly believe it when I tell
you, that, in spite of all that has passed, the
Enderbys have actually gone to stay at
Bridge Court."

^^No, you don't mean it!" ejaculated
the general, for once surprised out of his
customary phlegmatic manner.

'' Indeed, I do ; Clara Torkesly saw it
with her own eyes. Saw them get into a
Bridge Court carriage at their own door,
and drive off with the boxes and portmanteaus
outside."

It is very odd what made the Balders
take them up," said the general, meditatively.


^' I presume you will think it your duty
to interfere ? *' remarked the lady sharply.

^ Me ! interfere ? ' ' said the general ; " why
how can I interfere ? "

^^ I presume you will write to Mr. Balders

and explain to him that he is entertaining
a gambling clergyman who ought to be
unfrocked "

^^ Nonsense! I haven't met Mr. Balders
half-a-dozen times altogether, and our acquaintance
is of the very slightest. I can't
interfere about whom he may think proper
to entertain at Bridge Court; but my
opinion is unchanged about Mr. Enderby,
and I shall certainly recommend all my
friends in Tunnleton to keep clear of him."

^' I contend, general, if you did your
duty you would write to Mr. Balders at
once."

'' Then for once, my dear, I shall not do
my duty. I am not going to run the risk
of being snubbed for such uncalled-for interference
in an almost stranger's affairs as
that would be. When I conceive I am
entitled to speak I shall do so."

'^ And I tell you, general, you're not only

entitled to speak now, but you're not doing
duty by society if you do not' retorted
Mrs, Maddox, with all the obstinacy and
steady adherence to her point that a vindictive
woman usually displays under such
circumstances. Mrs. Maddox was quite
conscious that she had had the worst of
her skirmish with Mrs. Enderby. It was
more bitter than the case of those, who,
seeking wool, come home shorn. She had
gone forth to patronize and came back
'' snubbed." There was no other word for
it, and when that happens to any of us, reprisals,
if they cannot be made on the
offender, must be made upon somebody else.
Do not the veracious legends of the House of
Ingoldsby remind us how a great warrior
of the Louis Quatorze times

Had just tickled the tail of Field-marshal Turenne,
Since which the Field-marshal's most pressing concern

Was to tickle some other chiefs tail in his turn."

Mrs. Maddox could not retaliate directly
upon Bessie, but she could through her
husband, and she meant to do so.

Before the general could reply the door
opened and the man-servant said, ^^ Mr.
Jarrow is in the drawing-room, and says
he is particularly anxious to see you, sir."

^^ Say I will be with him immediately,
Williams. Now what can Jarrow want ? I
should think he has come to admit that he
can defend Mr. Enderby no longer."

When the general entered his drawing-room,
he found Mr. Jarrow distended with
importance on the hearth-rug. Now the
general was pompous in his manner, but if
there was one man who, so to speak, ^' overflowed
and drowned him " in this particular
it was the rector of St. Mary's. The
Reverend Jacob Jarrow was continually,
when upon his travels, mistaken for a high
ecclesiastic in consequence of his extremely

patronizing, condescending manner, and
General Maddox had always an uncomfortable
feeling of being defeated at his own
game when thrown, as had happened more
than once, into collision with the rector.
There was nothing much in either man in
reality. Both depended upon this imposing
grandeur of manner — and that proving ineffective
had nothing left but to retire from
the fray discomfited. But the credulity of
mankind is such that they were wont to
be regarded as distinguished members of
their respective professions, although their
records afforded no grounds for such belief.

^' Good morning, Mr. Jarrow," said the
general, as he entered the room. '^ Charmed
to see you, as the servant told me you had
something particular to say. I am afraid
I owe this visit more to business than
sociability."

'^ Yes, general," returned the rector, '^ it

is my duty as one of her principal sons in
Tunnleton to repel all attacks made against
the Church. Sir, you ventured to bring a
charge against my curate, which, had it been
true, would have amounted in my eyes to
immorality in a minor degree. I have inquired
into that charge, and find it to be
utterly false. I call upon you now to retract
it, and to express regret that you
should ever have permitted yourself to have
made it."

The general drew himself up to his full
height before he replied, then he said slowly
but firmly :

'' I regret to say, Mr. Jarrow, that I can
do nothing of the kind. What evidence
have you of Mr. Enderby's innocence ?
Nothing, I presume, but his own word. The
bare denial of the accused hardly holds
good in a court of justice's; I have sat upon
court martials in my time."

^^ The decision of which," interposed i\Ir.
Jarrow, pompously, ^^ I'm given to understand
is usually in defiance of all evidence "

'' You are speaking, Mr. Jarrow," said the
general, flushing slightly, ^^ of a court of
which you have no knowledge. The accumulation
of evidence against Mr. Enderby
is very strong. He has been perpetually
discussing racing for some time past. He
takes an extraordinary interest in a particular
race; shows a feverish interest to
know the result of it, and, whereas before
that race he had been — I am told — in difficulties
about money matters, he displays
great command of that essential a few days
afterwards, and finally lodges a good round
sum to his credit at the bank."

^' Then, General Maddox, I am to understand
that you decline to withdraw the
accusation you have made ? "

VOL. II. F

Certainly I do,-' replied the general,
^' until I am convinced it is unfounded."

'^ And that, sir' said Mr. Jarrow,
swelling like an outraged turkey - cock,
you will speedily be convinced of in a
court of law if Enderby follows my advice.
How you have picked up all this information
about his private affaires I don't
pretend to conjecture, but it displays a
curiosity about your neighbours' affairs
which I should hardly give you credit for
taking. If Enderby follows my advice he
will bring an action for libel against you.
Good morning, General Maddox I " and Mr.
Jarrow fumed out of the room.

The general felt not a little discomfited.
He felt as unforgiving as ever towards
Maurice Enderby, and moreover he still I
firmly believed that he was guilty of the
charge preferred against him, and only
aggravated his offence by solemnly denying

it, but he was conscious that he had had

considerably the worst of the argument with

the rector. That taunt about prying into

his neighbours' affairs had gone severely

home to him. It was not the man's nature

to do so, but the idle gossiping life of an

inland watering-place eats into the bones,

gets into the blood. Life is so circumscribed

that we take an unnatural interest in the

doings of those around us. He did not much

believe in any action for libel being brought

against him, although he was fain to confess

it would be doosid unpleasant if such a thing

did take place. He could see already from

the final taunt that Mr. Jarrow had thrown

out that a sharp cross-examining barrister

could at all events give him a very unpleasant

half-hour in the witness-box.

At this juncture he was joined by his

wife, and no sooner was that lady made

acquainted with the object of Mr. Jarrow's

f2

visit than she at once proclaimed no surrender,
and expressed her intention of
nailing her colours to the mast.

*^ Mr. Jarrow, indeed! A pompous, meddling
priest, who, upon the strength of having
written some stupid bombastic letters in the
local journals, believed himself a literary
man and a great controversialist. Pooh !
a fig for the Rev. Jacob Jarrow ! He was
always fussing about something ! Let him
fuss about this, and if Mr. Enderby was fool
enough to listen to him he would see what
good he got out of it. If Mr. Enderby chose
to invite the public to inspect the quagmires
of his career he could do so ; wiser men
boarded them over and kept silence about
them."

Maurice and his wife, meanwhile, were
thoroughly enjoying their stay at Bridge
Court. The rector, with all his failings,
was a good-natured man, and had conceived

a real liking for his new curate, and, hearing
where Maurice was going, he at once
proposed to take a considerable portion of
his, Maurice's, duties off his hands for that
week, so that he was left pretty much his
own master at Bridge Court.

Bessie thoroughly revelled in the complete
freedom from all household affairs, and
enjoyed the fruit, the lounging in the
grounds, and the lawn-tennis. The Miss
Balders, too, thoroughly frank, unaffected
English girls, made a great deal of her,
and she got on capitally with them while,
to Maurice, chattering over old times or
things generally with his friend Bob Grafton,
was a quiet luxmy which he fully appreciated.


'^ It's a rum start, old John Madingley's
coming down to Tunnleton," said Grafton,
one evening in the smoking-room ; " you've
never met him, you say ; well, it is good

you should do so, and whoever recommended
him to nurse his gout here did you a good
turn."

'^ Yes ; but there is one very singular
thing about it. He writes to me to get
lodgings for him close to my own house, and
proposes to live with us. Now Richard
Madingley, his heir, has taken a house in
Tunnleton and entertains a good deal. He
has a very nice house, and could have put
his relation up without any trouble.
Curious rather he didn't write to him,
isn't it ? "

'' Yes; I never heard of Richard Making
and I never heard where John Making
money was likely to go, but, though
he's a wonderful hale, hearty man for his
seventy years, that last is a question that
we shall probably have answered for us
before long," said Bob, musingly ; *^ so the
fellow gives out that he is heir to Bingwell ?

He must have done or the people here could
never have arrived at such knowledge''

Yes, it is owing to his own volunteered
information on the subject that Tunnleton
is aware of the fact. My wife never heard
of him any more than you, but she owns
to being very hazy about her cousins
generally. She lost her father when she
was young and has never known much
about his family, with the exception of
Uncle John, the elder of the brothers."

Grafton looked up suddenly and said,
although in careless tones,

^^ Does this newcomer know your wife is
a Madingley ? ''

^^I should think not; but. Bob, I want
to speak to you about something else ; I am
afraid I have made a grave mistake in the
profession I have selected. I begin to think
I am not fitted for clerical life."

'' Can't say I ever thought you were,"

rejoined Grafton sent entiou sly, as he emitted
a cloud of tobacco from under his moustache,
'^ you ride too straight and are too
fond of snort generally to sober down into
a parson of these days. Forty or even thirty
years ago you might have done, but you're
too late, my boy."

'^ Why didn't you tell me so before ? " said
JVFaurice, somewhat bitterly.

^^My dear fellow, what business had I
to intrude such advice upon you ? It is
one of those things a man must think out
for himself."

*' I don't know what to do, but I think I
shall throw it up."

'swell," said Bob, ^^ you're not ordained
priest as yet, and therefore you have plenty of
time to think the matter over. Now I'm
going to volunteer my advice. Your chance
has come to you : think it seriously over,
and when your mind is clearly made up

unbosom yourself to John Madingley. Hein
great spirits just now at the running of
his pet filly, is evidently very kindly disposed
to your wife, and, I should think,
wouhi. be disposed to assist you in any
career you may determine to embark on ;
only remember, make up your mind and
know what you want him to help you in.
You can t be such a fool as to think of the
turf."

^'No/' rejoined Maurice; ^^ I'll admit
Uncle John's legacy has made me think
much more about it than I ever did previously,
and I, in my dismay upon finding
how absorbed I was getting in its doings,
on one occasion actually pictured myself as
perpetrating that folly, but I need scarcely
say that is by no means my view of ' a
career.' I sometimes think Uncle John's
wedding present has been a very dubious
benefit."

Grafton looked at his friend for a few
seconds with no little astonishment, and
then, with a shrug of the shoulders/rejoined
quietly,

^^ Well, it's a dubious benefit I only
wish some one would confer upon me. My
dear Maurice, don't build upon it, but
without your bothering your head about
it, your wife's eccentric present ought, in
the course of this year, and the next, if
you have any luck, to be worth not
hundreds, but some few thousands, to you,
a comfortable send-off in any new line you
may strike out."

You are right, old man," rejoined
Maurice, '' I shall follow yom advice to
the letter. I shall think well over what
I am going to do, and put racing away
from my mind as much as possible. By-the
- way, I think you said the Ham

Stakes at Goodwood was the next event the
Wandering Nun started for ? "

A tremendous guffaw from Bob Grafton
roused Maurice to a sense of the absurdity
of the question on the top of his previous
protestation. It was well the pair had the
smoking-room to themselves that night or
the room would have rung with laughter.

'^ Hold me! hold me!" exclaimed Bob,
as soon as he could control his merriment,
^4f ever there was a man badly bitten by
the turf tarantula, you are the party.
Bless you, I can understand it, I have
dabbled in it all my life; used to bet in
saveloys and pounds of raisins when I

IS a small boy. The complaint's old and

ionia with me, but you have got all the
early and inflammatory symptoms."

'' Nonsense, Bob. I'll admit being bewitched
by the 'Nun.' I told you the
present was a dubious benefit ; but don't

think I mean to carry my racing experiences
further ; however, after such a piece of
inconsistency as I have just been guilty
of, I don't think I can do better than be
off to bed."

'^ Good night," rejoined Grafton; ^'if
you think a laugh will do Mrs. Enderby
good before going to sleep you had better
recount that speech to her. I shall just
finish my cigar and then follow your
example."

'^ He is right about one thing," mused
Grafton, as he smoked on after Maurice had
left the room ; ^4ie is not fit for a parson,
and what the deuce he is to turn his hand
to I don't know. I fancy he would have
made a good soldier, but I suppose the time
has gone by for that ; I'm afraid he is too
old."

CHAPTER V.

THE WIRE FROM GOODWOOD.

But the stereotyped parson's week came to
an end, and the Saturday saw Maurice
and his wife back in their little house at
Tunnleton. Eob Grafton, in a spirit of
;'i good nature, volunteered to telegraph
-1 order to assuage that feverish curiosity
which Maurice admitted feeling when
he knew that Mr. Madingley's flying filly
was to run.

'now, don't you go fidgeting about, I

shall be at Goodwood, and will send you a
wire from the course. Don't you go into
the club to look at the tissue, you shall
have the news before they get it there, you
bet. Good-bye, Mrs. Enderby, don't let
your husband read sporting intelligence,
and give him a dose of chloral whenever he
manifests a proclivity to talk racing."

Bessie laughed as she stretched out her
hand to say good-bye, but it was rather an
anxious little laugh all the same, for she was
seriously uneasy about this unfortunate interest
which her husband took in the affair.

They were destined to have speedy evidence
of what Mr. Jarrow's partisanship
brought upon them. General Maddox, rather
appalled by the fierce front displayed by the
rector of St. Mary's, had strolled disconsolately
off to confer with his great friend
General Praun, and that irascible warrior,
who was as hot, not as an Indian but as an

English curry, at once took the fierce and
furious view that might have been expected
of him.

'^ Bring an action of libel I He should like
to see Jarrow bring one ! he should like to
see Enderby bring one ! upon the whole it
would seem that he preferred all Tunnleton
should bring actions for libel ! He would teach
them he was not to be bullied. He had met
traders in India under the guise of missionaries,
and had never failed to denounce
them. He had met a betting man in Tunnel
under the guise of a parson, and he had
denounced him. He had never been afraid
of doing his duty, and wasn't going to flinch
from doing it now. Let them bring their
Actions for libel I let them put him in the box
and listen to what he had to tell them,
Messrs. Jarrow and Enderby would be very
sorry in halfway-hour that they had invited
his revelations I ''

A great man Praun no doubt ; had gone
through life under this delusion, and been
accepted as such by numbers of his acquaintance,
chiefly on account of an irritable
temper and natural combativeness. But he
was no judge of what constituted evidence !
and what he termed his revelations would
have been pronounced mere hearsay and
gossip and no evidence at all by a court of
law.

Now the next week was Goodwood, and,
do what he would, Maurice could not abstain
from further glances at the sporting intelligence
in his own daily paper. It is useless
to rail against the infirmity of human nature,
but it is scarce in accordance with our common
frailty not to manifest curiosity of what
may be the result of a lottery or raffle in
which we have taken tickets. Still Maurice
manfully refrained from entering the club,
or throwing himself in the way of its sporting

frequenters. He contented himself with
Slowly gathering the news of the Goodwood
doings in his paper next morning ; but on
the Wednesday afternoon came an end to
this. Between four and five a boy arrived
with the yellow tissue, and it need scarcely
be said that a Miss Torkesly happened to
be passing and witnessed its delivery. The
telegram was of the briefest, it was simply
this —

'' Congratulations ! the Wandering Nun
won easily by a length. — R. Grafton.
Goodwood Racecourse."

A thrill of exultation ran through Maurice's
veins. It is no use disputing it ! To
nine hundred and ninety-nine men out of a
thousand the acquisition of money is inspiriting,
letter profession be what it may,
Maurice did not know exactly what the
winning of the Ham Stakes meant, but
he had little doubt that it represented two

VOL. II. G

or three hundred to his credit at his
banker's.

He sat with the telegram in his hand,
musing over several little things in the way
of astonishing that Bessie wanted. He
thought also of that pony-carriage of which
they had indulged in hazy dreams ; a ]Dony-
carriage with its etceteras that they had
pictured as coming within their reach, when
editors should at length awaken to a proper
sense of the value of his — Maurice's— contributions
; and here was this money coming
in without his lifting a finger (so he admitted
with a half sense of shame) to earn
it. Granting he was a popular contributor,
Maurice could not but think how many
articles he must need write, how many
weary hours he must need pass at his
writing-table, before he could hope to make
that sum of money ! It was demoralising —
he Knew it was. He was conscious tho.t,

despite all his struggles to the contrary, he

was becoming to all intents and purposes a

gambler. He did not actually play, he did

not actually bet ; but, for all that, he was

watching the racing reports as men do the

spinning of the ball or the fall of the card at

Monte Carlo. However he soon shook off

his reverie ; none of us wax solemn for long

over the winning of money, more especially

won from neither friend nor acquaintance,

and it was with quite a gay countenance

that he left his study and ascended to his

wife's drawing-room.

^^ Well, Bessie," he exclaimed, '^I have

just had a telegram from Grrafton to say

that your uncle's filly is victorious again. I

really am glad that he is coming to us next

week. He cannot surely mean to keep on

presenting us with hundreds. When he

good-naturedly said that you were to go

halves with him in what the ^ Nun ' mio-ht
g2

"wiiij he probably thought she might pick up
one decent stake, but could hardly have supposed
that he was the owner of the very best
two-year-old of the season — a filly whose
winnings are likely to be computed by thousands."


^^No, no' rejoined Bessie, ''I agree with
you, I don't think that could have been his
intention ; but Uncle John is a man of his
word, and sure to stick to it. Still his
coming here will give you an excellent opportunity
to release him for what he has
already done ; and tell him we really expect
to participate no further in the Wandering
Nun's successes."

^' You are quite right ; I have got a capital
first floor for him just over the way, and
as soon as he has settled down I'll explain
this to him. He has been very loyal to his
promise ; many men would have considered

a cheque for a hundred quite sufficient
redemption of such a sledge."

^'He has been very good to us, Maurice.
1 am no purist, as you know, but Uncle
John's present to some extent represents
dabbling in the turf, I know, dear, you
don't actually, but morally it is otherwise.
We will thank Uncle John and have done
with it."

Maurice stirred his tea and quietly assented
to his wife's proposition. He meant
it thoroughly ; he wished to disentangle
himself from the meshes of the turf ; but the
abandoning that fascination, except under
compulsion, requires rigid resolution, as
many a moth who has scorched his wings
past redemption at the fatal candle has sadly
owned, through many succeeding years of
exile or poverty. To Maurice it was so
easy to continue his interest in it ; he could
always calm his conscience with the assurance

that he never actually staked money on the
result, but the excitement of watching what
to him was really speculation on its chances
was one he would be somewhat loth to forego
when it came to the point.

Mr. Richard Madingley had given a
great garden-party, which was followed up
by a dance in honour of his engagement.
The greater part of Tunnleton society was
present at this fete, and the Enderby
scandal, as it had come to be called, was a
prominent topic of discussion. The adverse
party were much in the ascendant, indeed
Maurice could count few friends in that
assembly, but he had one powerful one
in the person of the Reverend Jacob Jarrow,
who had no idea of a curate of his being
found fault with by any one but himself.

Mr. Jarrow was a person formidable to
combat; his very failings tended to make him
an awkward antagonist ; his pomposity, self-complacency,

and obstinacy were hard to
contend with. You can't convince a man
who starts with a steady determination that
lie will not be convinced ; ridicule he was
impervious to, and, in the matter of words,
both ponderous and voluminous ; you could
no more have talked the Reverend Mr.
Jarrow down than his church steeple.

General Maddox, after his last week's
experience, kept clear of him, but the
irascible Praun could not refrain from dashing
in to rescue his wife from a pretty sharp
lecture on want of charity towards her
neighbours, which, without exactly mentioning
Maurice's name, evidently had his
story for its text.

'rit's all very well, Mr. Jarrow ; we all
know that you consider a curate of yours
can do no wrong; that you decline even
to listen to the evidence against him ; but
you can hardly expect that the unsupported

word of the rector of St. Mary's ^vill whitewash
Mr. Enderbj in the eyes of men of
the world. I'm told that you counsel him
to bring an action for libel against some of
us ; I can only say, let him, let him, sir, as
far as I am personally concerned ; he will
find that more complete exposure is all he
will take by that move ! "

^'I have not only counselled him to do
so, but I shall urge him still more strongly
to persist in such resolution. People who
calumniate their fellow-creatures find themselves
mulcted in serious damages in these
days; you will perhaps discover, general,
that mere statement doesn't constitute
evidence," and with this the rector walked
away, with the air of a man who has completely
crushed his opponent, most maddening
to witness.

'^ Evidence, forsooth ! " exclaimed the
enraged general to his wife ; ^^the idea of

any parson telling me, a man that has sat
on hundreds of court-martials, that I don't
know what evidence is ! " and then the
general walked off, fuming and muttering,
1 am afraid, words not altogether complimentary
to the clerical profession generally,
but he was soon destined to receive consolation,
and, ere he had gone far, he came
across his host, who was being excitedly
appealed to by some of his fair guests on
the subject of Maurice's iniquities.

^^ You see, you know all about these
things, Mr. Madingley; you oughtn't to,
and of course you'll give it up when you're
married, but you really should be a judge
of whether Mr. Enderby really is guilty of
gambling."

Dick Madingley, who was by nature
relentless in his vengeance, had steadily
adhered to his role of ago. He had nothing
to say to it ; he knew nothing about it ; it

was no affair of his, but, if you asked him
as a man of the world — well, Mr. Enderby
had endeavoured to make the most of his
information.

^' Ah, I am afraid so. It is very sad that
a clergyman should give way to such madness,"
observed Angelina Torkesly, with a
deep sigh ; ^^ but after what I saw yesterday
I am afraid there can be no doubt that Mr.
Enderby has yielded to temptation."

And then the fair Angelina, in all the
glory of contributing a fresh sauce to the
highly-spiced dish of gossip they were discussing,
narrated her story of the yellow
envelope and the telegraph boy.

Dick Madingley said nothing, but in the
eyes of the audience this evidently was
an important fact that admitted of no
rebutting, and they were expressing their
opinion to that effect freely when an
unctuous voice boomed upon their ears.

'^ I would recommend you to be a little
more reticent of your opinions, my good
people. This accusation is about to become
the subject of an action for libel, in which
one or two of the leading personages of
Tunnleton will figure prominently, and
several more have the privilege of entering
the witness-box."

A sudden shower could not have more
effectually washed out the conversation than
the rector's announcement. It was the first
society had heard of such a thing as an
action for libel being contemplated, and
society had a hazy idea of the pains and
penalties connected with that style of prosecution,
but Tunnleton was prompt to
recognise that it was a very unpleasant
affair to be mixed up in. The Eeverend
Jacob Jarrow had taken up the cudgels
with such good will for his curate, that he
had quite persuaded himself that this action

should be and would be brought, although
Maurice had never for one moment hinted
at such a course. However, his speech had
the effect of dispersing the little knot, and
Mr. Jarrow found himself left face to face
with his host and with General Praun as
the sole auditor of what might pass between
them.

' It is very good of you to stand up for
your curate, Mr. Jarrow," remarked Dick
Madingley, suavely, '^ but, if you have any
influence with him, you had best counsel
him to drop this action for libel. He is no
friend of mine or you would see him here today,
but I don't like to see a man make a
fool of himself. I'm the last fellow to find
fault with any one for having sporting tastes,
but if a man does have a little flutter over a
race it's no use telling lies about it. I don't
pretend to be a censor of morals at my time
of life, but, Mr. Jarrow, if it is wrong for a

parson to bet, I can't see that he mends
things by denying his having done so."

^' You had better be very careful how you
reiterate that calumny' said Mr. Jarrow,
pompously.

'had I," replied Dick Madingley, with
an evil gleam in his light blue eyes, '' Good !
next time you see your model-assistant, just
ask him this question : Did the telegraph
bring you good news from Goodwood on
Wednesday ? "

'good gracious, what do mean?" exclaimed
Mr. Jarrow.

Nothing more than I say. Simply ask
Mr. Enderby if the telegraph brought him
good news from Goodwood on Wednesday.
If his answer satisfies you I am willing to
retract my recently expressed opinion."

It was a bold coup on Richard Making
part, for telegrams refer to many other
things than racing, and Dick had no idea

of what Enderby's telegraph was about
really. Still he knew that it was the Good-wood
week, and had managed to wring from
the telegraph clerk, with whom he was on intimate
terms that it did come from the
ducal gathering.

As for the Eeverend Mr. Jarrow he was
fairly taken aback, and left, to use nautical
parlance ^^ in irons," and ere he could recover
himself his host was gone.

CHAPTER VI.

JOHN MADINGLEY.

Early in the following week John Making
arrived in Tunnleton. There had been
no flourish of trumpets announcing his
arrival, the Enderbys had mentioned it
to no one, and the quiet, countrified, old-fashioned
clergyman who stepped into the
very - well - known lodgings that Maurice
had secured for him attracted no attention
in the first instance. But in a few days
Tunnleton awoke to the fact that Mrs.

Enderby had got an uncle who had arrived
within its gates, and that the name of that
uncle was Madingley, and then the gossiping
little town literally ran wild with
boundless conjecture. What relation was
the new-comer to Mr. Richard ? How extremely
odd, if he was a relation, that Mr.
Richard had never alluded to his expected
arrival, and then Tunnleton remembered
that Richard Madingley had run up to
town, on some lawyer's business it was
said, and presumably connected with the
marriage settlement.

Tunnleton felt mystified, and if there is
one thing a provincial town invariably resents
and places the worst construction on
it is this. An uncle of Mrs. Enderby, then
why did the Enderbys keep his approaching
advent a secret ? Mr. Enderby's ways ap-apparently,
like those of ^^ the Heathen
Chinee," were peculiar, and once more

society shook its head over Maurice's iniquities
and came to the conclusion, that, as
far as Richard Madingley was concerned,
despite the uncommonness of the name, they
were namesakes but not relatives.

However there were two people in Tunnel
who did not accept this view of things.
Mr. Molecombe the banker, whose daughter
was betrothed to Dick Madingley, thought it
behoved him to call at all events on one who
might prove to be a somewhat important
relative of his futile son-in-law, and, to say
the truth, was not quite so well satisfied in
the matter of settlements as a staid business-man
should be before he surrendered his
daughter to a comparative stranger. Mr.
Molecombe came to the grave resolution that
he would call. He had sounded his junior
partner Frank Chylton pretty severely on
this point, but Frank was so indignant at

the omission of the En derby s from the
VOL. n. H

Molecombe garden-party of some few weeks
ago, that he steadfastly withheld the information
he possessed, and there was growing
up gradually in Frank Chylton's mind a
doubt as to whether Richard Madingley was
quite what he professed to be. He had
never even hinted such a thing to Maurice,
but it struck him as curious that Richard
Madingley seemed quite unaware that Mrs.
Enderby's maiden name had been identical
with his own, and that she was a niece of the
man whose property he professed himself
heir to. It had occurred to him of late that
Mr. Richard Madingley was perhaps drawing
on his imagination when he described
himself as heir to that Yorkshire property,
and that the succession to it might be more
matter of hope than a declared intention on
the part of the present proprietor.

The Reverend John Madingley of Bing
well might be a pronounced fact in his own

country and in many other places, but in
Tunnleton he had been a mere impalpable
shadow in which they took no sort of interest
till the arrival of his reputed heir, and
even then that Mrs. Enderby was also a
relation of the Yorkshire squire and rector
had been quite forgotten by the few people
who had known it, with the exception of
the Chyltons.

Mr. Molecombe in due course presented
himself at John Madingley's lodgings, and,
in response to the conventional ' ' not at
home," desired to see that gentleman's valet,
and explained to him that he did not come
within the catalogue of ordinary visitors, as
his daughter was engaged to be married to
Mr. Richard Madingley.

The valet's face was immoveable, and his

manner most deferential as he listened to

the banker's story, but he firmly though

politely reiterated that his orders were 


operative, that his master was in delicate
health, and regretted that he was unable to
receive visitors.

Mr Molecombe retired considerably disappointed.
Ho thought, considering the
circumstances, the rector of Bingwell might
have made an effort to see him.

There is a great resemblance between
humanity and sheep. Despite their first
impressions, no sooner was Tunnleton aware
that Mr. Molecombe had called, than it occurred
to several of the prominent members
of Tunnleton society, who had profited by
Richard Madingley's hospitality, that it
would be perhaps advisable to call upon the
new comer. Mr. Molecombe had, of course,
satisfied himself of the relationship before
committing himself in this wise. But the
same answer was invariably returned which
had met the banker on this visit — ^' Delicate

health, and deeply regretted he was unable
to receive visitors."

Not reckoning the Enderbys, John Ma-dingle
made but one exception to this rule,
and that, to the unfeigned astonishment of
Tunnleton, was General Shrewster. That
he was a self-contained man, and not given
to slopping over like a full pail when jogged
against, his acquaintance were awaie. Still
it is very odd that he had never mentioned
his acquaintance with the master of Bing-well,
whom he must evidently know intimately
or he would scarcely have been
admitted when he called.

It was quite true. General Shrewster,
although near a score of years younger than
John Madingley, had been a contemporary
of his upon the turf. It was many a year
ago since the general had abandoned that
fascinating pursuit, but there were plenty of
old race-goers even now who could recollect

how Captain Shrewster used to '^ shake the
ring." How he would dash in at the last
moment, in the days when men really did
bet, and write down three or four pages of
his betting-book in about the same time as
it has taken the writer to scrawl this paragraph.
" It's a treat," an old trainer once
remarked, ^' to jut the Captain on a good
thing, he's the pluckiest bettor I ever saw !
and when he goes in he fairly makes the
ring dazed before he snaps his betting-book
to again. He has had them so often and so
heavily, they are a bit cowed now when he
puts down the pieces in earnest''

Yes. General Shrewster's had been the
fate of many another who had started in life
with a good property and plenty of ready
money. How many thousands he had run
through on the turf was a matter only
known to his bankers, and his solicitor. The
large sums that he won by day on the heath

were more than swallowed up by the reckless
play he indulged in, at the rooms at
Newmarket, at night. He had wonderful
information and was a most successful speculator,
but reckless after-dinner play, at the
gaming table would easily dissipate such
successes, and the gambling houses of
Brighton or the rooms at Doncaster easily
swallowed up the winnings of the ducal
gathering, or successful days on the Town
Moor.

It was in those early days that John
Madingley had known young Shrewster.
It is hardly worth going into, but in
those days the then captain had intimate
relations with the great Northern stable
in which John Madingley trained, and the
rector had been attracted towards him fi^om
the audacity with which he was wont to
back any promising horse of his. They had
become great friends, Shrewster had more

than once been down to stay at Bingwell.
Then came his smash. He had nothing for
it but to exchange to India and leave the
settlement of his affairs to his solicitor. The
result was, a fine fortune became a moderate
competence ; still upon that and his pension
General Shrewster as a bachelor was passing
rich in Tunnleton. He never spoke of his
past, and that complacent little place, which
believed that its knowledge was universal,
was quite unaware that the grey-haired
veteran, who read the morning papers so
placidly, who was never seen in the billiard-room,
and rarely even as a looker-on in the
card-room, was the Captain Shrewster about
whose wondrous turf successes and mad
doings all London had rung a quarter of a
century ago. You may think yourself a big
man, you may flatter yourself that you have
made your mark, but to bring yourself to a
proper sense of the nothingness of all human

ambition there is nothing like a visit to one
of those pulseless provincial places. Except
you are royalty or the prime minister, there
will be slight curiosity regarding you.
Swinburne, Wilkie Collins, or Millais, run
no risk of being mobbed in such towns.

It was not long before Tunnleton arrived
at the fact that General Shrewster was
admitted by the recluse of Beans, as
the somewhat ostentatious private hotel
where Mr. Madingley had taken up his
abode was called, and about this the inquisitive
little town marvelled much.

Not an easy man to question, this General
Shrewster ; could be curt and sarcastic, as
more than one social dignitary had discovered,
somewhat to his discomfiture.
Still, Generals Maddox and Praun, after
some talk between themselves, came to the
conclusion that Mr. Madingley's eccentric
seclusion was a thing to be inquired into,

and that the information they sought could
only be obtained from General Shrewster.
But from this latter the two gone-mouches
could extract nothing. General Shrewster
told them briefly that he had known John
Madingley intimately many years ago, that
he had come down to Tunnleton for his
health, and was not equal to receiving
visitors or making fresh acquaintances.

Even General Praun admitted there was
no more to be said ; it certainly was open
to a man to choose whom he would receive
in his own house. Still, as the uncle of Dick
Madingley, Tunnleton, he did think, had
claims, &c., &c., which only went to prove
that '' there was no more to be said," by
no means, as a rule, closed discussion, there
being generally plenty more of inaccurate
talk to follow that brief announcement.

Maurice and his wife got on capitally with
Uncle John. He looked more like an old-fashioned

country squire than a clergyman,
although his dress was sober enough. He
was generally attired in a single-breasted
pepper-and-salt coat of slightly sporting cut,
drab kerseymere breeches and leggings, and
invariably wore a white scarf of matchless
fold and immaculate purity. He was evidently
fond of Bessie, and no sooner did he
discover the fascination the turf had for her
husband than he unfolded the lore of past
decades for his edification, and about the last
fifty years of turf history John Madingley
was a combination of racing calendar and
biographical dictionary very interesting to
listen to for any one whose tastes lay that
way. One thing Maurice remarked as
strange was that he made no allusion to
Richard Madingley, and at first seemed a
little taken aback to find that he was established
in Tuunleton ; afterwards he appeared
to have heard all about it, but to take very

little interest in Richard or his proceedings.


The following conversation would have
created no little excitement in Tunnleton
could it have been heard : —

'good morning, Shrewster ! It's very

good of you to come and cheer up an old

friend who has got very near to the end of

his tether. I like a gossip with you over

the old times of five and-twenty years ago."

Yes, Madingley, hut it's ended the same

way with the lot of us. We plunged and

won ! We plunged and lost ! and the losings

always exceeded the winnings by many

thousands. My lot was only that of a score

of others ; you can recollect. You, like a

sensible man, raced solely for sport, and

when you did bet it was to an extent that

never caused you a moment's uneasiness.

However, never mind these bygones. I am

glad you like young Enderby. He's a good
sort."

"Yes, he is!" returned John Madingley.
He is a very good young fellow ; but I
tell you what, he is in the wrong groove.
That chap will never do any good as a
parson. They don't stand parsons of my
stamp now-a-days, and Maurice is no more
fitted for the profession he has chosen than I
am, though all the same I have been more
conscientious than the world gives me credit
for."

'^ You are quite right," rejoined Shrewster.
Enderby would make a rattling good
dragoon, but he will never do any o^ood in
his present vocation."

^' Well," interposed Mr. Madingley,
quickly, '' he is not committed to it yet, and
he is young enough to change, and I
shouldn't mind helping him a little in some
other line if he liked."

^^ And That would your heir say to that?"
inquired General Shrewsbury slyly.

John Madingley threw himself back in his
chair, and burst into a roar of laughter.

^^ Ahj" he said at length, ^' what a commotion
there will be in Tunnleton when they
come to the rights of that story ; in the
course of a few days Scotland Yard will
no doubt have reckoned this gentleman up
for us ; but, as I told you before, as for his
being my heir, why I never even heard of
the fellow before. He may have a right to
the name of Madingley, but he is most
assuredly no connection of mine. You tell
me he is engaged to a girl in this town, a
daughter of that banker fellow who called
upon me. I don't mean to see him, but I
shall certainly before I leave Tunnleton let
him know that his intended son-in-law is
flying false colours. But in the meanwhile,

Brewster, not a word to any one. I know
I can trust you''

^' Yes, I know how to keep my tongue
between my teeth, and now I'm going to
say good bye. You look tired, and will be
all the better for a snooze before dinner.
Good-bye." And with a warm pressure of
the hand the two old friends separated.

CHAPTER VII.

AT THE " BRISTOL " RESTAURANT.

If there was one Dean at Tunnleton who
felt uncomfortable about the position of
things it was Mr. Molecombe. His daughter
had heard several times from her fiancee
but Richard Madingley always wound up
by regretting that the well-known dilatory
ways of solicitors still detained him in town.
That was nothing compared to a rebuff he
had received from John Madingley. Not
content with that gentleman's ^' not at

home," he had thought fit to write to him

'g

I

to explain Richard Madingley's relation to
his daughter, and the rector of Bino^wcjlFs
reply had thrown the banker into a cold
perspiration. John Madingley had curtly
answered that his health precluded his receiving
visitors, and that he had nothing
to say to Richard Madingley's matrimonial
arrangements.

A more uncomfortable answer it was
scarce possible to get from a man who
stood in loco parentis to that of a proposed
son-in-law. A second letter elicited
no answer whatever, and, though Mr. Mole-combe
as yet kept his own counsel, he was
nevertheless seriously discomposed about
the aspect of affairs. It was a puzzle
beyond his comprehension. His intended
son-in-law had vanished from Tunnleton
simultaneously with the advent of the relative
from whom he professed to expect his

VOL. II. I

heritage ; that might have been accident,
but it was singular that he should not return
nor apparently have been aware of the
Yorkshire rector's coming. Then, again,
John Madingley's note, and the ground he
had apparently taken up, were by no means
reassuring. Elderly gentlemen invariably
expected to be consulted and deferred to
about their heirs' matrimonial intentions,
more especially when such elderly gentlemen's
property was entirely at their own
disposal. Mr. Madingley apparently did
not. One solution only of this was possible
to the banker's mind, namely, that
the rector of Bingwell most thoroughly
disapproved of the whole affair and intended
to countenance it as little as might be.
This would account for Dick Madingley's
apparent embarrassment about the settlements.
There were difficulties probably
between himself and his uncle's lawyers,

i

for, despite the fact that Richard Madingley
had only given himself out as a cousin of
the well - known Yorkshire ^^ vSquarson.''
Tunnleton, from the moment they had
grasped the fact (rather late in the day)
that the owner of Bingwell was to some
extent a man of moneyed notalDility, had insisted
on that relationship, and their disgust
when this clergyman of the north declined
to appear and he worshipped was considerable.
Still, let Tunnleton think what it
liked, there were two points which there
was no getting over. The Reverend John
Madingley adhered strictly to his determination
to see nobody — while, curiously
enough, his relative and heir was apparently
unable to return from London. Mr. Mole-combe
was much too prudent to show any
concern about this, but at the same time
both he and his family felt extremely uncomfortable
about the turn things had taken.
i2

Edith Molecombe, indeed, shrank as far as
possible from receiving visitors of any sort.
Isle could say with truth that she heard
nearly every other day from her fiance —
that his letters were dated from the Bristol
Hotel, but that he was still detained in
London by those bothering lawyers ; all
very well this on the surface, but Mr. Mole-combe
could not but see that within such
easy distance from town as Tunnleton was
it was very possible for an enamoured
young man to run down for a day or so
to see his sweetheart, more especially when
such an opportunity of presenting his bride-elect
to the man who stood to him in
place of a father had occurred. It would
almost seem as if John Madingley had run
down to Tunnleton for that express purpose,
and yet Eichard seemed to have disappeared
as if to controvert it.

Could Mr. Molecombe have looked in at



the Bristol Restaurant one evening, his eyes
might not only have been opened, but have
been fetched pretty nearly out of his head.
Trifling over his dessert with a still unfinished
bottle of dry champagne at his right
hand, was a slight, wiry, dark-faced, clean-shaven
man, all owing himself only the smallest
modicum of mutton-chop whisker. A man
about whose age it was hopeless to conjecture.
He might be either prematurely old
or extraordinarily young for his time of life,
but he was at all events eating the best hothouse
peaches and drinking the best Brut
brand the Bristol could furnish, with a nonchalance
that betokened the most perfect
indifference to the amount of his dinner-bill.
While he was leisurely picking his teeth, a
man clothed in faultless evening attire, with
immaculate white tie, who had been apparently
so far condescendingly superintending the

other waiters, approached his table with a
deferential bow and said,

'^ I hope, Mr. Pick, I hope your dinner
has been satisfactory."

^•' Hallo Dick ! thought you had made
your pile and started something of this kind
on your own account."

swell, Mr. Pick, I did get a tidy loo
together, and I undoubtedly had a very
good time last year, still I did not think it
quite good enough to cut this place ; my
berth here, as you know, is an exceedingly
good one ; they are excessively liberal in the
matter of leave, in fact really three days a
week is as much supervision as they demand
from me. I have been in the country a bit
for the benefit of my health."

Mr. Pick received this statement with a
low whistle and a closure of the left eye
that might have been deemed almost insulting
by sensitive people.

Richard Madingley continued in the
same unmoved tone,

Things haven't been quite so rosy this
season so far ; you have always been very
good to me, Mr. Pick, and I thought 1 could
rely upon you thoroughly for information
about the North Country Stables."

^' So you can, Dick, you have always
known all I know."

'^ What about this ' Wandering Nun,' then?
You never gave me a hint about Lier, Mr.
Pick."

^'No," replied the satmmne gentleman
irritably. '' Dash it, how could I ? Those
cursed Kilournes kept the thing so confoundedly
dark that there wasn't a soul in
the north knew anything about her except
perhaps old Madingley and one or two of
his cronies. They never let you know,
and old Kilburne and his son think a deal
before they lay out a pony between 'em, but

they have got a flyer, no mistake about it.
I have learnt it much too late to collar the
loaf ; but you had better follow my lead and
go in for the crumbs."

^' My expenses have been very heavy this
season, Mr. Pick."

'^ Yom expenses ! " retorted the other
contemptuously, ^^your expenses be damned !
Look here, Dick Bushman : I promised your
mother to give you a hand, as far as I could,
before she died, and I've done it. I'm not
particular. No man who makes the turf his
vocation can afford to be mealy-mouthed,
but you certainly have no call to heave
rocks at me. I got you your appointment
here, better than that of most clerks in
government offices as far as money and
work goes : I've given you the office whenever
I've been in the swim myself, and you
come here whining to me about your expenses
and not being advertised of the

the two pounds a week you will probably
command if they turn you off here without
a character, and don't trouble me any more I "

'^ Pray don't mistake me, Mr. Pick. If
you would allow me to conduct you to a
private room while I explain, and condescend
to accept a glass of champagne and
a cigar from me, you will be quite satisfied."

'' Well, Dick, I could do another pint of
pop ' and a tidy cigar. You ain't a fool,
and if you don't rough me up the wrong
way I'm good to stand to you still, but that
Wandering Nun is a devilish sore subject ;
there hasn't been such a good thing as that
come out of Yorkshire in my time without
my knowing all about it : bat the Kilburnes,
having no real speculators connected with
them, had no trouble about keeping this
dark ; a few hundreds would represent the
investments of Mr. Brooks, his friends and

his trainer. But come along and you shall
tell me what you've been doing."

Mr. Pick, now a notable member of the
ring, had begun life as a footman. The
antecedents of the knights of the pencil
are mysterious as those of the members of
the Stock Exchange ; they have their ascension,
culmination, and decline, their zenith
and their nadir ; comet-like they cross the
sky and disappear into the obscenity of
poverty or sparkle with the temporary
effulgence of wealth. Mr. Peck at present
gravitated between these points, but he was
a philosopher, and, when he could not afford
the tariff of the Bristol, was content with a
cut off the joint at a luncheon-bar, though,
like most of his vocation, he always lived
luxuriously when in feather.

Dick led the way to a snug, disengaged
dining-room, in which one of his subordinates

was already busy manipulating the
cork of a champagne bottle.

'swell, I haven't seen much of you
lately," remarked Mr. Pick, as he sipped
his wine with infinite gusto; ^' what have
you been doing ? "

^^ I've been doing the swell and setting
up as a gentleman of property : never mind
where, but not very far from town."

^^ Yes, you're good at that game, as I
know from experience ; you can do the
pretty and put the side on, Dick, so as to
pass for the real article, unless the liquor
gets the best of you, and then, like the
rest of us, you are apt to display the weaknesses
of your past ; you've a command of
strong language which you're a little disposed
to make use of when you're sprung —
that's injudicious. Well, did you have a
good time ? Did you make it pay ? "

"- Not quite : but if I could raise a few hundreds

more I should have made a good thing
of it. I was fairly established as one of the
swells of the place and engaged to the
daughter of the leading banker there."

^' What, you, to a real lady, with
money ? "

Just so?" rejoined Dick rather sharply ;
^' there's nothing very wonderful in that ;
I'm not bad-looking, you know ; they all
think I'm comfortably off and that I'm a
gentleman."

The other ejected a cloud of tobacco -
smoke, and then, with a significant wink,
observed,

^' Right you are; a real out-and-outer;
but you've a past. Master Dick, that respectable
people would look upon as somewhat
dubious.

I

5?

^^ When the respectable people don't know
it that matters little," replied Dick Making
; " but I wanted to see you, and that is

the principal reason that brought me to
London."

^^ Campaign not been profitable as yet,
eh ? " rejoined Mr. Pick.

^' Nos but just on the point of becoming
so."

Like 'em all, like 'em all," replied the
bookmaker softly. belike myself, like the
beggars who are always on the verge of discovering
how to make gold or diamonds, or
their fortune. We're always pounded for
that other eve hundred pounds or so. If we
had had that odd hundred or so to plunge
with, what a lot of us would be driving in
carriages instead of wearing our soles out.
The end of your moving history is, you want
money and can I find it ? "

Dick nodded. He knew his man, and,
though Mr. Pick might philosophise himself,
words were quite wasted upon him as a
matter of business. He would never have

attained the very tolerable turf position he
held had he not been both hard-headed and
practical. The advancing of a little money
where he saw his way to tolerable security,
for exorbitant interest, was quite within his
province.

'' You know I have been doing tolerably
well, or you wouldn't see me here ; but you
also know I'm the last man to go into a
speculation blindfold. You'll have to show
your hand, my boy."

^' And that is none so easy to do. You
would want to know what the young lady's
fortune was to be."

'^ Naturally. I've to recover my money
and be liberally recompensed for the accommodation,"
rejoined Mr. Pick gravely.

'^ That's just the rub. My proposed
father-in-law is somewhat anxious to do the
same thing with regard to myself."

The bookmaker gave vent to a low
whistle.

'^ Under those circumstances' he said, at
last, '^I think I may say this match won't
come oflP. At all events, it don't sound
good enough for this child to risk money
on."

'^ It will come off fast enough if I am not
stranded for a few hundreds of ready coin.
They all believe down there I'm of a good
Yorkshire family, and heir to a nice property."


'' A rather credulous population down
there, wherever it is," remarked Mr. Pick,
with a sneer. ^^ And now, before we go any
further, where is it ? "

Time enough for you to know when you
tell me you're good to advance me four or
^\e hundred to carry on the war."

'rit is no use, Dick; when those parliament
swells come to the house for supplies,

they have to condescend to particulars, and
so will you before I part with a ' mag.' ''

^' I must have the money or chuck the
thing up," replied Dick Madingley. '^ You
would have to know it sooner or later, and,
as I can't well play the game without a confederate,
perhaps the sooner I take you into
my confidence the better. I am down at
Tunnleton, and living in one of the best
bachelor residences in the town."

'^ I say, isn't that risky? Weren't you
afraid of being spotted ? "

^^ No,' the Bristol is a little above Tunnel
form, and, as for racing, well, Tunnleton
talks a good deal about it, but, bar Epsom,
don't know its way to a race-course."

'' Any crumbs to be picked up there ? "
inquired Mr. Pick.

^^ No ; it's not worth while exposing your
game at sixpenny pool, nor your knowledge
of whist at shilling points — besides it would

have been all against the game I was playing
to be counted anything but a fair performer
in those lines."

'' Good, very good ! '' remarked the bookmaker.
'' There's nothing like understanding
when one's little talents are best kept in
the background. Or else, Dick, amongst
yokels, you're likely to do well at those
amusements''

^^ Well, you agree with me' replied the
other impatiently ; *' fishing for gudgeon is
waste of time when there are salmon in the
pool. Will you stand to me ? "

^' I'll come down and have a look at the
tidings anyway. You can put me up for a
day or two ? "

^' I'll put you up for a week or two, if you
will make up as an old-fashioned snorting
pastor and call yourself my uncle."

'^ What, the fellow with the property in
Yorkshire ? " exclaimed Mr. Pick.

VOL. II. K

'^ That's it. I want you to represent old
John Madingley of Bingwell. He's an old
man who never goes out of his own county,
and they know nothing about him in
Tunnleton."

*^ Never goes out of Yorkshire, don't he?
By Heavens, Dick ! I saw him at Goodwood
last week. The old man came all the
way to see his Wandering Nun win. the
Ham.' "

CHAPTER VIII.

MR. MOLECOMBE GETS UNEASY.

Me. Pick listened to the further evolution
of Richard Madingley's scheme with considerable
interest, but not altogether with enthusiasm.
No man keener than him to turn
five hundred pounds into a thousand in a
few weeks, and that he computed was about
the price he ought to receive for his assistance,
pecuniarily and otherwise. But then
Mr. Pick had a wholesome dread of placing

himself within the clutches of the law, and
k2

he had a vague idea that the personation of
a well-known personage would come under
the head of fraud or conspiracy, or something
of that sort. Moral scruples the
bookmaker had none, still he had escaped
once or twice by the skin of his teeth ; had
indeed once left the dock under the lash of
the judge's tongue, and had to listen to the
regrets of that functionary that his wrongdoing
had been so skilfully planned as to
just defeat the administration of justice.
N05 Mr. Pick did not approve of the bill of fare
at Millbank. No, .the bookmaker, although
he had embarked on some very risky enterprises
in his early career, was too substantial
a man now not to weigh possible results,
however profitable the game might appear
to be, and anything that looked like ending
in a law-court he shrank from. He was not
quite clear whether the personation of somebody
else was not an indictable offence. Hei



rather thought it was, he had hazy ideas of
^^ conspiracy with intent to defraud," being
a transgression that carried severe pains and
penalties. His mouth watered at the idea
of the sum he might demand for his help,
but he had no idea of burning his fingers in
pulling Dick's chestnuts out of the fire.

^^ I've been thinking this out," he said,
slowly, after a silence of some moments, which
the other had taken care not to interrupt.
^^ It's rather a risky business, and if I go
into it you'll have to pay pretty smartly for
my help. I tell you what I'll do. I'll comedown
and look at it, and that's as much as
I'll promise just now. If I fancy the spec,
well and good, if not, there's no harm done''

^^You will come back with me tomorrow;
remember it is important that I should produce
the relation from whom I have expectations
as soon as may be. I never saw
John Madingley, but you have, and well

know the sort of line to take up— country
parson with sporting tastes."

'^ I can't personate him to any body who
has ever seen him," replied Mr. Pick, '^ but
the chances are nobody in Tunnleton ever
has. I'll be ready tomorrow ; you wire
and order dinner," and, so saying, the bookmaker
rose to his feet and, nodding goodnight,
left the room.

Could the precious pair have overheard a
conversation at Tunnleton, the going down
there would have been deemed inexpedient
by both of them.

^^No, Madingley, T ran up to town and
did what you wished, but you had better, at
present, let things take their course. At all
events there is nothing to be done with
your namesake till he returns. They know
nothing about this young gentleman at
Scotland Yard, and pooh-poohed the whole
business. Said that he very likely had a

right to the name, and had only exaggerated
in claiming relationship with you.
In short," concluded General Shrewster,
they decline to interfere at present in anyway,
and I suppose they're right. This
fellow would 2^^^bably declare he only
claimed to be a distant connection of yom-s,
and that the rest was merely Tunnleton
gossip."

eyes," replied John Madingley, ^' it is
always open to a man to claim that sort of
kinship, and he does liimseK little harm
even if the other side disavow it."

'^ Yes, a cool hand like this young gentle-^
man will get out of it easily enough. He
does not want money apparently, and is
certainly not deficient in cheek."

^^ I know the sort," rejoined Madingley,
laughing, ' ^ plenty of bounce and swagger
till they're collared. We'll leave the fellow
alone, and only give Mr. Molecombe a hint

in case his daughter's marriage with my
namesake becomes imminent. It will befor
him then to discover whether Mr.
Richard Madingley is sailing under false
colours or not."

Yes," replied Shrewster, with a quiet
smile," and it will be a terrible shock to
Tunnleton should he turn out to be a rank
impostor."

^* Yes," rejoined the master of Bingwell,
*Hie idea that he has been regularly had
rouses the bile of the Yorkshireman, and I
don't suppose the southerners take it more
kindly."

So, it having been settled between them
that for the present they would merely
watch the course of events, neither John
Madingley nor his old friend troubled themselves
any more for the present about the
doings of this new star that had suddenly
risen above the town horizon.

But if they did not trouble themselves
about Dick Madingley's proceedings Tunnel
did ; and the Prauns and the Maddoxeses
and the Torkeslys shook their heads, and
agreed that there was something excessively
odd in the newly-engaged man's persistent
absence. Mr. Pick had suddenly found
that his own legitimate business would
detain him some time longer in London, and
with the somewhat hazardous game that
Richard Madingley was playing he did not
consider it advisable to re appear upon the
scene until his pockets were replenished.
On that point mr. Pick was very decided —
he would advance no money until, as he
expressed it, he had been 'sto look at the
speculation."

Mrs. Maddox said boldly that the young
men had changed a good deal since her
time ; that if Maddox had treated her in
such nonchalant fashion after they were

engaged he would very soon have '^ had
the mitten."

Mrs. Praun opined that there was no
standing the youth of the present day,
they really seemed to expect the young
ladies to do all the love-making, to
which her irascible husband responded,
sand by gad, madam, they are not
disappointed," which produced one of those
Mediterranean squalls wont to disturb the
even tenour of the Prauns' domestic life —
a hot-tempered couple who not only indulged
in volcanic explosions at home but
combined in volcanic irruptions abroad, and
were a terror and — metaphorically — a very
lava-flood to any weak-kneed society they
might get into. As for the Maddoxeses, they
never boiled, but persistently gurgled, like
the steady, monotonous wash of the sea
against the shore ; dangerous in their very
persistency in any view they might have

taken up. But there was one very curious
thing in all this which wrought very much
to the sol-disant Richard Mockingly's advantage.
Influenced considerably by their
enmity to Maurice Enderby, still further
stimulated by the Reverend John Madingley
declining to make their acquaintance, the
two generals gradually worked themselves
into the belief that John Madingley was
an impostor.

It's astonishing how it is possible to persuade
one's self to a belief in accordance
with one's wishes, albeit we have no facts
whatever to justify that opinion, and the
Maddoxeses and the Prauns were not at all
people to keep what they thought to themselves.
The consequence of all this was,
that, far from suspicion failing ujDon the
impostor, there was a lurking misgiving
that the Reverend John Madingley was not
what he represented himself to be ; in the

eyes of the Prauns and the Maddoxeses a
clergyman like Maurice Enderby, who
dabbled in horse-racing," would be capable
of almost anything ; they would hardly
have hesitated at almost openly insinuating
that the whole thing was a fraud but for
one fact ; there was no getting over that :
General Shrewster knew and visited the
Eeverend Mr. Madingley, and he was not
only above suspicion but carried far too
many guns to be assailed with impunity;
he might have been imposed upon, but it
was not likely, nor did even General Praun
feel that he should care about hinting that
to him. Shrewster's social position was
beyond dispute, and he had more than once
shown that he could say very bitter things
when provoked. Tunnleton had long ago
come to the conclusion that Shrewster was
a man to be let alone.

But a man who was made wonderfully

uneasy by all these varied rumours was Mr.
Molecombe. He was pledged to give his
daughter to this young man Richard Making
Here was his kinsman, from whom,
according to his own account, he expected to
inherit this Yorkshire property, and that
kinsman firmly but politely refused to see.
Mr. Molecombe; although the banker had
written and explained the peculiar relations
under which he stood to Richard Madingley,
the recluse of Bingwell, although actually
residing in Tunnleton, kept his doors resolutely
closed upon him. Then these sinister
rumours reached his ears that the Rev. John
Madingley was an impostor, and this, with
the prolonged absence of his son-in-law that
was to be, still further increased the banker's
uneasiness. It was difficult for him to get
not at the real state of things, but even at
what people thought ; it was not likely that
men like Generals Praun and Maddox would

confide their suspicions to hinij and a wholesome
respect for Greneral Shrewster made them
rather shy of expressing their opinion publicly.
The banker was much attached to his child,
and that he should feel uncomfortable about
her engagement was only natural, and there
could be no doubt about it, that just at present
Mr. Eichard Madingley's real status
was under suspicion. Greneral Shrewster was
the only man behind the scenes, for John
Madingley had not even confided to the
Enderbys that he knew nothing whatever
of this young gentleman who had thought
proper to claim kinship with him. Shrewster
was, what he would have termed, watching
the match with great interest. ^' Madingley 's
quite right'' he would mutter to himself,
^'in waiting for this impostor to show his
hand ; unless he has heard of John Making
arrival, and got scared, he is bound
to make the first move, and then it will be a

case of checkmate almost immediately. The
Scotland Yard people arc right ; we must
allow this yomig gentleman a little more
rope in order to make his discomfiture a
certainty. However, if he should come back
to Tunnleton there will be no doubt about
that, and in any case it is clearly John
Madingley's duty to interfere, and prevent
Edith Molecombe being married to this
man.

Mr. Pick's business being at length
brought to a conclusion, it was settled that
he should run down to Tunnleton that evening
in the assumed character of Dick's uncle,
and see what he thought of things. Making
at once telegraphed to his servants to
have dinner and a spare bed made ready,
and a little before six he and Mr. Pick
settled themselves comfortably in a first-class
carriage and started for their destination.


There was only one other passenger, and
he was apparently absorbed in his cigar and
evening paper. Dick cast one long keen
glance at him, and then, coming to the conclusion
that he had never seen the stranger
before, began conversing in a desultory way
about the past Ascot and Goodwood. Bob
Grafton, for he was the stranger, pricked up
his ears, as he always did when the talk ran
in that groove, but refrained from joining in
it. Suddenly he became haunted with the
idea that he had met the elder of his companions
before, and yet for the life of him
he could not recollect where or who he was.
The man was like a dim shadow of the
past connected in Grafton's mind with some
unpleasant incident. Ever and anon he
stole furtive glances over his paper at Mr.
Pick, but it was of no use ; the bookmaker was
to him like the blurred photograph of someone

he had known, but now failed to recognise.


On arrival at Tunnleton Bob got out, for
he was on his way to Bridge Court, and
purposed taking a fly from the station to
convey him thither. Rather to his astonishment
his fellow-travellers followed his example,
and as they drove o£P Grafton asked
the porter, who was busied with his luggage,
whether he knew them.

^'The young un's Mr. Madingley, sir, but
I never saw the other gentleman before."

'^ Madingley ! " exclaimed Grafton, as he
jumped into his fly. '^ I have it — that's the
fellow who found out John Madingley's mare
was lame at Epsom, and got such a lot of
money out of her for the Oaks — Pick, the
bookmaker, and if all that was said about
it was true, nobody was more likely to have
early information inasmuch as he was accused

VOL. IT. L

of causing it. What can have brought that
precious scoundrel to Tunnleton ? "

'^ All right, Phillips ; here we are," said
Dick Madingley, as his well-trained servant
opened the door the moment the fly stopped.
Take my uncle's things up to his room ;
dinner in a quarter of an hour ; and where
have you put my letters ? "

'^ You will find them on the mantel-piece
in the drawing-room, sir," and as he spoke
Dick fancied Mr. Phillips eyed Mr. Pick
with no little surprise and curiosity. But
apparently the man saw he was observed,
for he turned hastily away and disappeared
to attend to his duties.

*' All fancy, I suppose," muttered Dick,
there's nothing remarkable in my having
an uncle. Most people have till stricken in
years, and yet somehow that beggar Phillips
struck me as looking astonished. Now for
my letters : hum, small tradesmen's accounts.

a tea at the Torkeslys, will I join a house -
dinner at the club, an invitation or two for
garden-parties, and, hum ! a note from my
papa-inlaw as is to be. ' Will I call as soon
as I return ? is most anxious to see me on a
matter of great importance.' Now what
maggot has he got in his head. However, I
don't mean to see him to-night, tomorrow
will do for him. Dinner and a bottle of
wine's the first thing, anyway."

During dinner young Madingley kept up
the farce and was extremely civil to his
apocryphal uncle. Phillips's face gave no
sign, though nothing escaped his keen eyes,
and some of Mr. Pick's gaucheries might
have put a less thoroughly trained servant
off his balance ; that gentleman, indeed, was
not above harpooning anything he fancied
with his own fork, and utterly ignored salt-spoons
while his knife was in his hand,
l2

plunging the blade in freely when wanting
that condiment. The meal over, and Mr.
Pick having pronounced it a very pretty
notion of a feed, the book-maker settled
down to a cigar and brandy and water.
Champagne he understood, but the best of
claret had no attractions for him.

^' Look here, old man," said Dick, '' you've
got all you want in the way of tobacco, &c.
and there's books of all sorts on those
shelves. I just want to slip down to the
club for an hour, and hear what's been going
on while I was away. Necessary, you see,
in the rather ticklish game I'm playing to
have the gossip of the place at my finger-ends."


'^ Quite right. Don't you mind me. I've
a shrewd suspicion you're out of your depth
already. You can't keep too close an eye
on the current. Let it once turn against
you, and the sooner you slope the better."

^^ You're right. Shall see you when I
come back ; " and, with a nod to his friend,
Dick took up his hat and sallied out into
the niofht-air.

CHAPTER IX.

THE GAME ABOUT UP.

Mr. Pick, left to his own reflections, began
in his parlance to reckon up the trumps in
their hand. 'eyes, this sort of crib and
turn-out looks like money, and as for Dick's
name he's always gone under that of Ma-dingle,
and that he's no relation to old John
is no fault of his. He's quite willing to belong
to the family vf they'll let him. It was
a very good plant to come down here and lookout
for a wife with money, and, according

to Dicky it looks like coming off if he can
carry on a little longer. But there's one
very awkward corner to get round. These
swells always go in for what they call settlements
— means, I suppose, putting down
your picture cards and showing what money
you've got and where you keep it. Now
Dick must come to grief over that. He's
only one chance, to run away with the girl
and trust to the old man coming round afterwards.
It's a risky game, and I shall charge
pretty high for what I put into it."

Then Mr. Pick selected a novel from the
book-case and sat down to enjoy for the
twentieth time the account of the great
^^ Oriel" trial in Digby Grand; for, like
most men, Mr. Pick enjoyed the description
of life and scenes within his own immediate
experience. But he had not been reading
long when the opening of the house-door
announced the return of Dick Madingley.

'sit's all U P,'' exclaimed that worthy;
*' and the sooner you clear out of Tunnleton
the better."

^^Why, what has happened'' inquired
Mr. Pick.

^' John Madingley is here, and has been
for the last week. All Tunnleton knows
it."

Whew ! " whistled Mr. Pick. " Yes,
you're right — you are knocked out of time.
Now the next thing is to get out as easy
as we can."

'^ I don't know about easy' replied Dick.
'^ I should think we had better get out as
quick as we can."

'' Now, look here, young man," replied
Mr. Pick, impressively; '^ you can't be said
to have my experience of tight places, and
there's many an awkward circumstance ina
man's career may be got over if he'll only
just brass it out ; now, I have no intention

of putting myself in a bustle, I can tell
you."

^^ Why, good gracious ! " exclaimed Dick;
^' you come down here as John Madingley,
and here's the Avery man himself in the
town, what the deuce are you thinking of ? "

^^ Never mind what I came down for;
no one has heard you call me anything but
^ uncle ' as yet. Can't you have an uncle
on your mother's side as well as your
father's ? Bless you, my boy, I'm your
Uncle Hopkins, or anything else you like
to call me — bar Madingley — as for that
uncle you must stick to it that they misunderstood
you."

'' But you don't suppose that will satisfy
old Molecombe, do you ? '' replied Dick.

'' No ; nor that you will marry his
daughter," retorted the book-maker.

'' I don't know about that'' replied Dick,
doggedly. '' If I am not mistaken, Edith

is really fond of me, and when that is the
case a girl don't throw you over just
because her father says ^ no.' "

Ah ! then you do think that probable ? ''
'^ Never had a doubt about it," rejoined
Dick, sententiously ; ^' when it came to the
settlements it was hardly likely that any
hankey-pankey work you or I could manage
would blind a man of business like Mole-combe.
No, I'll take your advice, and play
the game out. 1 shall have to see Mole-combe
tomorrow, and no doubt get my
dismissal when I disclaim all connexion with
John Madingley."

osgood," said Mr. Pick, sententiously;
^ ^ it comes exactly to what I reckoned it up
at when you were out. Run away with the
girl, if you can, and trust to the stonyhearted
father relenting afterwards. I don't
mean putting much money into the business,
I tell you, but I'll stay with you a week,

and find you enough to carry on for a month
on the old terms ; if it don't come off in
that time, you had better give it up. And
now, my boy, Pm off to bed." And so
saying, Mr. Pick lit his bedroom candle,
and nodded good-night to his companion.

Dick Madingley sat lost in thought for
some few minutes after the book-maker's
departure. He possessed considerable experience
of how far an off-hand manner,
unlimited assurance, and the possession of
ready money, will impose upon society.
He was utterly unprincipled, and had for
some time come to the conclusion that his
first stepping-stone to fortune was to marry
money. He liked Edith Molecombe, but,
nice-looking girl though she was, he, nevertheless,
was no whit in love with her. The
question was, whether the speculation was
good enough. The banker must have
money, and, storm and rave though he

might at the outset, yet when the thing
was irrevocable he could not but forgive
his only child. As for his past, Dick
thought there would be not much trouble
in burying that. It would be easy to ignore
his present situation, and one or two of like
character which he had previously held.
Fool I as if the irrevocable past was not
always dogging man's footsteps, and, obscure
as his career may have been, rising
up against him in the days of his splendour.
It is no use ; a man who knew you when
you kept that grocery store in Islington
confronts you sooner or later, when you
soar to the glories of Cromwell Road.

However, this never crossed Dick's brain.
He saw no further, and it was very possible
to persuade Edith Molecombe to trust herself
to him, and that, once married, her
father's forgiveness would be a mere matter
of time ; and, with a firm determination to

pursue his love-suit to the bitter end, Mr.
Madingley followed his friend's example.

The next morning Dick, strongly advised
by Mr. Pick, determined to take the bull by
the horns, and, to use that worthy's expression,
'have it out with his guv'nor-in-
law " at once.

'snow, you know what you've got to
say," said Mr. Pick. ^'Say it, say it strong,
and then come the indignant dodge.
Kicked out you'll be ; that'll be the end of
the first move. If the young woman means
sticking to you, you'll know all about it
before the week's out. Now then, off you
go, and leave me to explore the beauties of
Tunnleton."

Dick Madingley was blessed with plenty
of nerve, and it was with the most unblushing
effrontery that he knocked at the
banker's door, and requested to see Mr.
Molecombe.

He was informed that gentleman was out,
upon which Dick expressed great annoyance,
and, making his way to the drawing-room,
told the servant to let Miss Molecombe
know that he was waiting to see her. This
request the man very naturally complied
with, and, having shown Mr. Madingley into
the empty drawing-room, went off at once inquest
of his young mistress.

A very few minutes, and then the door
opened and Edith Molecombe sprang forward
to greet her lover.

^'Oh, Dick'' she exclaimed, ^' what a
long time you have been away from me."

'' Soothing to my vanity to think you
have found it so," he replied, ^'but I could
not get away before ; business arrangements
consequent on our marriage detained me ;
and you know, dearest, how slow lawyers
are about these sort of things. But, sit

down, Edith, I want to have a little serious
talk with sou."

'eyes," replied the girl, as she seated
herself on the sofa. ^^You haven't bad
news to tell me, have you, Dick ? "

^^No, nothing very bad, though I must
own I'm not a little annoyed, and, if you
really care for me and will stick to me, I
shan't so much mind."

^' Why you know I will, Dick. Have not
I promised ? '' she continued, almost in a
whisper, '^ and do you think I'd go back
from that promise ? '*

^^No, I think I can trust you," he replied,
^^but during my absence a very awkward
misunderstanding has arisen it seems. Mr.
John Madingley — a well-known man up in
Yorkshire — has taken up his abode in
Tunnleton. Because his name happens to
be the same as mine, and because I rather
foolishly bragged of how good an uncle mine

was to me, and what great expectations I had
from him, I find all the people here have
jumped to the conclusion that this Mr. John
Madingley is that uncle."

'''We certainly all thought you had said
so, and I think papa has called twice on him.
It seems he is a great invalid and sees
nobody, with the exception of General
Shrewster and the Enderbys."

Dick gave a slight start. '* Odd ! " he
muttered. *' Old Shrewster and that prig of
a parson are the two people in Tunnleton I
dislike most."

'^ Well, Edith," he continued aloud, '' how
the misunderstanding arose I don't know —
I certainly never meant to say that Mr.
John Madingley was my uncle. A very
distant connection, no doubt he is, but the
uncle to whom I owe everything is staying
with me now, and rejoices in the more
commonplace name of Dobson."

Edith Molecombe said nothing for two or
three minutes. She felt quite certain that
Dick had, upon more than one occasion, said
positively that John Madingley of Bing-well,
Yorkshire, was his uncle. She knew
her lover was lying, but then he was her
lover, so she deliberately shut her eyes to
the truth, and determined to believe that she
was mistaken.

^' I don't see much to be disturbed about
in all this. You will, of course, have to
explain it to papa."

^^ Exactly what I had hoped to do this
morning," he replied quickly ! ^^ I only heard
of the rumour late last night, and came up
this morning both to see you and to set your
father right on this point."

'papa may feel a little annoyed at having
fallen into a mistake — most people are-but
I don't know that it is one of very great
consequence."

VOL. II. M

'^Ah! Edith— Edith darling. Can't you
see," exclaimed Dick with well simulated
passion, ^^ that your father gave you to me
under the misapprehension that I was heir
to a nice estate in Yorkshire ? When he
finds that I only expect to inherit a mori
moderate income, and that my uncles though
as dear an old . fellow as ever stepped, can
lay claim to no particular family, I am
afraid he will revoke his consent. Can I
depend on you, Edith, not to give me up
then, but to stand firm, and wait till time
shall soften his disappointment ? "

^^ Yes," she replied in clear resolute tones,
'^ I promised myself to you because I loved
you — of course we can't marry without something
to live upon ; but you won't find me
grumble if we are not quite so rich as
was expected."

^^ Thanks, my own brave girl," he replied,
as he bent down and kissed her, '' now I

feel I can trust implicitly in you, I have no
fears for the result, although I shall doubtless
have to go through a stern probation as
best I may. And now I am sure you will
agree with me that the sooner I see sour
father and put a stop to this absm-d rumour
generally, the better."

^' Yes," said Miss Molecombe, ^^ it will be
best so. I don't think you do papa quite
justice. He may feel a little disappointed,
just at first, but he is not the man to go
back from his word on such slight grounds
as those''

^^ You have taken quite a load off my
breast ; and now I must be off ; " and, after
again embracing his^Vm^?^'^, Dick Madingley
took his departure.

'' Not a bad morning's work," he mused,

as he strolled leisurely back to Tunnleton,

for the banker's house, be it remembered,

stood a little way outside the town. '^ If
M 2

Edith only sticks to me, and I think she will,
old Molecombe will have to give in at last.
It wouldn't do to talk to her about running
away just yet, but when I am presented
with 'the key of the street" I shall be able to
harangue on domestic tyranny, and point
out that there is a period when parental
oppression justifies daughters taking their
lives into their own hands. It won't take
very long to arrive at that stage, either."

Could Dick have been present at a little
conversation in John Madingley's rooms, he
would have realised that his next interview
with Mr. Molecombe would probably be his
last.

^' I think," said Greneral Shrewster, ^^ it's
time now, Madingley, for you to interfere. I
hear this precious namesake of yours returned
last night, and you really are in
common justice bound to let Molecombe
know that he is no relation of yours."

^' I'm not quite clear I'm called upon to interfere
at all in the matter ; Mr. Molecombe
has thought proper to identify himself nth
the faction here that are apparently endeavouring
to make Tunnleton impossible for
Maurice and his wife to live in."

I don't think that has anything to do
with it," interrupted Maurice. I can't altogether
blame Mr. Molecombe because he
has thought fit to credit malicious charges
brought against me ; but surely, sir, it is
your duty to unmask this young scoundrel,
and save Miss Molecombe from such a
terrible fate as her marriage with him would
be."

^' You go a little too fast," replied John
Madingley, quietly. 'just bear in mind,
that, whatever we may think, all we know
positively is that he is no nephew of mine."

Perfectly true," remarked Shrewster,
*' but I agree with Enderby, that it is only

right you should let Molecombe know that
fact at once."

Thus urged, John Madingley sat down
and wrote a brief note to the banker, in
which he said, '' that, it having come to
his ears that a certain Mr. Richard Making
whom he understood was engaged to be
married to Miss Molecombe, had stated that
he was nephew and heir to him (John
Madingley) , he begged to inform Mr. Mole-combe
that the gentleman in question was no
relation, and that he had never heard
of his existence until he himself arrived in
Tunnleton some three weeks ago."

^' There," he said, ^'^I think that meets
the case, anyhow it is all I virtually know
of the matter, and Mr. Molecombe must do
as he thinks best on that knowledge."

^^Oh! that will be quite sufficient," cried
Maurice. ^' No father could dream of giving

his daughter to a man capable of uttering
such a gross falsehood as that."

I hope you're right, Mr. Enderby," said
General Shrewster, ^^but, mark my words,
he is a precious cunning, plausible, young
gentleman, and I should not be the least
surprised if he carried off Miss Molecombe
after all. If he is the arrant adventurer I suspect
him to be, Edith Molecombe's money
is her great attraction in his eyes. And the
tenacity with which men of this class cling
to a purpose of this sort is marvellous," and
then the general took up his hat and departed.
-

CHAPTER X.

FAMILY JARS.

Although Dick Madingley had failed to
see Mr. Molecombe he was not left long
in ignorance of that gentleman's decision ;
indeed, in the course of the day he received
two notes from the banker ; the first merely
requested him to call the next morning on
a matter of considerable importance, the
second informed him that there would be
no necessity to do so : that he, Mr. Mole-combe,
had received a communication from

the Reverend John Madingley not only
entirely repudiating him as a nephew, but
disowning any relationship with him whatever.
^^Asj" continued the banker, 'you
have persistently and distinctly always
referred me to your uncle, I need scarcely
say that my whole belief in your account
of yourself is shaken, and you cannot be
surprised at my refusing to consent to any
engagement between my daughter and a
man about whose antecedents I know nothing,
further than that he has represented
himself to me as the acknowledged heir of
a gentleman who had never even heard of
him until about a fortnight ago. You will
therefore understand that your engagement
to my daughter is at an end, as also is our
acquaintance," and then the banker wound
up formally with, he had '' the honour to
be, &c."

But Dick Madingley was not going to

take his dismissal quietly. He replied to
Mr. Molecombe's letter, and repeated the
same specious story of a misunderstanding
that he had detailed to Edith, pointed out
that the uncle from whom he really had
expectations, and to whom he owed everything,
was now staying with him, and that
if Mr. Molecombe would only consent to be
introduced to Mr. Dobson he would se how
the mistake arose.

But the banker's reply was very short
and uncompromising ; he briefly pointed out
that Richard Madingley had several times
deliberately stated that John Madingley
was his uncle, a fact which that gentleman
emphatically denied. He could not refuse to
believe the latter on this point, and therefore
had no alternative but to regard Mr. Richard
Madingley as having wilfully misrepresented
his social position, and therefore begged to
decline any further intercourse with him.

'kicked out'' said Dick meditatively,
as he handed the letter to his Mentor; sewell,
I expected that."

'just so' replied Mr. Pick-swell, if
old Molecombe won't let you in at the front
door there's nothing for it but the young
lady should steal out at the back. Yes,
Master Dick, if you press the siege hard
enough you ought to persuade her to make
a bolt of it before a fortnight is out. However,
I shan't be able to give you much
more of my society ; I have had my holiday
and must be off to York races on Monday."

It was evident to the precious pair that
Mr. Pick could be of no further assistance
in the prosecution of this sordid love-suit ;
that was for Dick to pursue alone. As has
been before said, he was of a bitter and
vindictive nature, and he felt that it would
afford him much satisfaction to laugh at the
banker's beard by carrying off his daughter

in the face of the curt dismissal he had
received, and the fates were fighting for
him in a way. which, though common-place,
would not have happened in the case of a
more judicious man than Mr. Molecombe.
It was a sore blow to the banker's pride to
think that all Tunnleton would be talking
of his daughter's engagement with one
whom he felt little doubt now was a mere
specious adventurer, and he was foolish
enough to visit his annoyance upon Edith.
He delighted in painting Dick Madingley's
conduct in the blackest terms. His daughter
stood up for her lover with much spirit ; she
had determined to believe Dick's own
version of the story, and shut her eyes to
what she knew to be the real state of the
case. She was very much in love, and what
girl under those circumstances would not
stand up for her lover, let his wrong-doing
be what it might ? "

There was much stormy converse with the
twain upon this point, with the usual result,
that Edith believed more strongly in her
lover than ever.

To open a clandestine correspondence
with Miss Molecombe was easy work for
Dick, who was personally acquainted withall
the dependants of the establishment, and
the female servant who would not assist in
the promotion of a love affair, more especially
when liberally handselled, is rarely
met with. Dick's passionate notes quickly
found their way to their destination, and
that they contained entreaties for a rendezvous
need scarcely be mentioned. There
were plenty of secluded walks around Tuunle-
ton, and in these long summer afternoons
there was no one to know of Edith Mole-combe's
coming and going. The awkward
disappointment gave her an excuse for
rather holding aloof from Tunnleton society

for the present, and so day after day she wandered
through the fields and woods with her
scapegrace lover. The strong common sense
that she naturally possessed would whisper
to her now and then that Dick's love-tale
was hardly veracious, but the glamour of her
passion closed her eyes, and if she could not
quite believe that it was all misunderstanding,
and that he had never represented himself
as the nephew of John Madingley, yet she
deemed the falsehood had been perpetrated
because of the great love Dick bore her.

'' Even supposing," he would argue, 'That
I had said so, which I deny, when a fellow
cares about a girl, and is just wild to call her
his own, it's no great crime if he a little
bounces about his position to her relations
in order to carry his point. A man who
is a man don't stick at trifles when he's overhead
and ears in love with a girl, and I don't
think, Edith, I should stand at much to win

you," and Miss Molecombe in her infatuation
thought Richard Madingley one of the most
chivalrous of men, and failed to discern the
utter selfishness of his character. ^^Your
father' continued Dick, ^^is behaving like
a parent of the last century ; he has no business
to treat you in the way he is doing, it
is shameful that he should play the tyrant in
this bygone fashion ; remember you are of
age, and no parent can dictate to you on a
matter of this kind."

"Oh! Dick," she cried; '^ I am always
standing up for you ; I have told papa again
and again that I will not sit by and hear
you abused, and I intend to stand to my
promise, and will marry nobody but you."

You are a dear, good girl," he replied,
' and if your father cannot be brought to
listen to reason we shall have to take the
law into our own hands. I want you for
yourself darling, and not merely because

your father can make you a handsome allowance
if he chooses."

'^ I don't quite understand you, Dick, but
I couldn't marry you without papa's consent,
I couldn't indeed ! I will be true to you,
but we must wait, he will come round intime."


"By all means," rejoined Dick, "give him
time, though it is hardly fair to expect us to
Taste our lives because he happened to misunderstand
what I said — but never mind,
darling, I know you're true as steel, and as
long as that is the case I will bear this
injustice as best I may."

It was ingeniously put ; Dick Madingley
was posing before his fiancee as the victim
of cruel injustice. He drew her closer to
him, and as they strolled leisurely down a
briar-scented lane a more dovelike couple
could scarcely have been seen ; and this was
precisely the view that a tall muscular

young man, who had just reached a stile
leading into the lane some thirty or forty
yards behind them, took of affairs.

Maurice Tenderly, for it was be, paused
ere he mounted the stile. He recognised
the couple before him at a glance, and had
no wish to intrude upon them, but he felt
sorely puzzled as to what he ought to do
under the circumstances. He knew, as did
all Tunnleton, by this time, that Mr. Mole-combe
had withdrawn his consent to Edith's
marriage ; he believed, as did many other
people, that Richard Madingley was an
impostor ; still it was perfectly clear that
Miss Molecombe had not given him up and
did not share that opinion. Maurice Enderby
sat for some time on that stile thinking
what he should do. It did not require
much knowledge of the world to know how
clandestine meetings with an unprincipled
scamp like Dick Madingley would terminate.

VOL. II. N

He could not bear the idea of any girl becoming
the prey of a reckless adventurer
such as Dick. Ke could not stand still
and see Edith Molecombe, in a moment of
madness, consign herself to life-long misery.
But how was he to interfere ? It was a
very delicate matter to touch upon. He
might communicate his discovery to Mr.
Molecombe, and throw that gentleman into
a perfect tempest of indignation, but it
struck Maurice that would be more likely
to precipitate an elopement than avert it.
In vain did Maurice cudgel his brains ; he
could think of no other means of interfering
except through the medium of Edith's father,
and he felt instinctively that would produce
more harm than good. In the meantime
the lovers had got well out of sight,
and he could now pursue his way home.
Maurice felt that he should very much
like to take counsel with somebody as to
what he had best do — but with whom ? Most

decidedly he did not wish his discovery blazoned
abroad. Should he confide the matter
to General Shrewster, and take his advice on
the subject ? He was a clear-headed man and
not given to babble ; however, he was not
destined to require the general's services upon
this occasion ; for, to his great delight, on
arriving at his own house, he found Bob
Grafton chatting merrily over the tea-table
with Mrs. Enderby, and it flashed across
him that a thorough man of the world like
Grafton was just the very man to take into
his confidence.

Grafton was in high spirits ; news and
gossip of every kind fell from his lips. He
touched on pretty well everything that was
talked about — musically, politically, socially,
and wound up by congratulating Mrs. Enderby
with mock gravity upon her successful
debut as an owner of race-horses.

Bessie's face became serious directly.
N 2

^' Don't jest about that, please, Mr. Grafton.
There is no denying we have been
very fortunate, and that the money has
been a great boon to us ; but I can't help
feeling that it is an ill-omened present, as
we shall discover in the end."

Nonsense, Mrs. Enderby ! There can
be no harm in what you do ; indeed, as a
matter of fact you don't win it ; you've the
luck to possess a jolly old uncle who gives
you half Ms winnings, which he can well
afford to do. I only wish I had an uncle so
charged with right feeling. And now I
must say good-bye ; it's a good stretch
back to Bridge Court."

'' I'll walk part of the way with you.
Bob'' said Maurice, as he took up his hat,
and the pair descended the stairs together.
'* I want your advice on a rather ticklish
point," he continued, when they found themselves
outside the door. And then Maurice

fold the whole story of Dick Madingley's
arrival in Tunnleton, how he had proclaimed
himself nephew and heir of John Madingley,
had become engaged to a young lady of the
place, and how that dien John Madingley
himself appeared on the scene he had utterly
repudiated all knowledge of his namesake.

Grafton listened with great attention and
no little amusement. •' What a precious
young scamp ! " he exclaimed, as Maurice
finished, '' and by Jove I wdiat a sell for him
John Madingley turning up at the finish !
However, of course that burst him up, and
his matrimonial speculation is all over now."

'^ That is just wdiat it isn't," rejoined Maurice.
"Molecombe broke off his daughter's
engagement, and turned this young gentleman
out of the house with the utmost
promptitude. But the fellow still lingers in
the place, as I happened to discover to-day,
and is still mains clandestine love to Miss

Molecombe. Now this is what I want to
consult you about. I don't wish to meddle
I don't desire to make a scandal. If I inform
her father "

'' Oh, nonsense I " interrupted Bob, energetically
; •* from your description of him, he
would lock her up, and then lie would be
off before twenty-four hours were over her
head. No, there's only one way out of a
thing like this. We must deal with Dick
Madingley. We must either bounce him
out of Tunnleton, or buy him, but I think
we can manage to do the former. You
must know that when I came down the
beginning of the week my attention was
attracted by one of my two fellow-travellers.
The man's face haunted me. I knew I had
seen it before, and under unpleasant circumstances.
Rather to my surprise, they both
got out at Tunnleton, and the porter told
me that the younger man of the two was

Mr. Richard Madingley. The name brought
it all back to me. I recollected my man
then. It was a Mr Pick, a leg who was
strongly suspected of being actively engaged
in the laming of a horse of John Making
's at Epsom. Like most of these cases, it
couldn't be proved, but of one thing there
was no doubt, that nobody benefited by that
mare's accident so largely as Mr. Pick, and
from the heavy amount he had betted against
her it seemed as if he had foreseen the accident
that befell her at the eleventh hour."

^^ Still, although that is very corroborative
of the opinion I have formed of Dick
Madingley, I don't see how that is going to
help us''

^' It's not at all a bad card, my dear
Maurice, in the game of bounce that we are
about to play ; that this young gentleman
should be entertaining such a known scoundrel
as Pick speaks volumes against him;

besides, didn't you tell me that he swaggered
a good deal about an uncle who is staying
with him whom he asserted to be the uncle
who owned the gold-mine, or whatever he
chose to call it. Now I take it half Tunnel
could tell you who has been staying
with Mr. Richard Madingley this week, and
if it turns out. as I think it quite likely it
may do, that this thief Pick, the book-maker,
has been posing as that wealthy relative,
then my boy we've got the ace of trumps in
our hand, and now good-bye. I'll be with
you to lunch tomorrow, and we'll snuff our
young friend out as soon as we have made
the necessary inquiries.

CHAPTER XI.

NOTICE TO QUIT.

The morrow was rather an eventful day
with Maurice Enderby. In the first place
John Madingley took his departure ; he was
extremely cordial in his farewell both to
Bessie and her husband. '' I'll give you
what help I can my lad," he said as he
bade Maurice good-bye, ^' in whatever you
turn your hand to ; but you're no more fit
to be a parson than I was, though when they
some to tot up my ledger they'll find I've

been a good deal better clergyman than
they give me credit for ; but remember,
things were very different when I began,
and what was thought no harm in a parson
doing in my younger days is looked upon
in quite another light now. You're in the
wrong groove, my boy ; take an old man's
advice, think very seriously before you are
ordained priest, and remember if you want
a little money to start in another line I daresay
I can manage to find it for you." A
warm kiss to Bessie, a hearty wrench of the
hand to Maurice Enderby, and old John
Madingley was speeding once more towards
his northern home.

^' I hope you've a decent lunch for Grafton,"
said Maurice to his wife, as they
strolled home from the station.

^' Don't throw doubts upon my housekeeping,"
replied Bessie, laughing, 'the
fatted calf has been killed for Mr. Grafton,

and I don't think you'll have anything to
complain of."

Bob Grafton turned up in due course, and
did due justice to Mrs. Enderby's preparations
; but no sooner was their meal disposed
of, and they were left by Bessie to their own
devices, than he at once plunged into the
midst of things.

'' I've asked a question here and thereabout
Tunnleton this morning, and gathered
a fact or two that will be useful to us. Only
one person has stayed with Richard Making
since he established himself here, that
was his uncle, Mr. Dobson, who left again
some two or three mornings ago. I've no
earthly doubt that Mr. Pick and Mr. Dobson
are identical, though what object Mr. Pick
had in posing as this young man's uncle I
don't know. I can imagine a score of good
reasons for his changing his name. He maybe
veritably his uncle for all I know, but

we've this fact to go upon, his relative is
well known as a thoroughly unscrupulous
book-maker, and is masquerading down hereunder
an assumed name. The conclusion is
obvious ; he is known to have given utterance
to a most mendacious statement regarding
his kinship to John Madingley. You
have fair grounds, therefore, for supposing
that he is also down here under false colours.
And now comes the question of how are we
to put the screw on. What I propose is
this, that you and I walk down to see him,
tell him briefly, but sternly, that we give
him forty-eight hours to clear out of Tunnel
and that if he has not disappeared in
that time you will feel it your duty to lay
the facts that have come to your knowledge
before the committee of the club."

'' And suppose," replied Maurice, '^ he
simply laughs at us, and tells us to do our
worst ? "

Then hold your tongue and let me talk
to hin. You see, if what we know really
teas put before a committee of the club, they
would feel bound to make him substantiate
his social position. AYhat scoundrels he
may choose to know is no business of theirs,
but doubts having arisen they have a right
to insist upon his vindicating himself and
show them that he is a gentleman and not a
mere adventurer who has crept into their
midst under false colours."

^' And you think it possible, Bob, to keep
Miss Molecombe's name out of the business
altogether?''-

''No, honestly, I don't; we will do our
best ; but an unprincipled blackguard like
that is pretty certain to introduce it, even if
he gives in and we carry our point ; he is
sure to spit all the venom he can ; and look
here, Maurice, you used to be able to hit
terribly hard with the gloves when you were

a freshman, and probably will be sorely
tempted to knock Mr. Richard Madingley
down before our interview is over. Mind,
you must keep your temper. And now, the
sooner we tackle this gentleman in his own
den the better."

Mr. Eichard Madingley, having made an
excellent luncheon, was ruminating how
things stood nth him in Tunnleton. He
was quite conscious that they were beginning
to look askew at him at the club.
They had no doubt there about his having
represented himself to be John Madingley 's
nephew, and they were equally aware from
General Shrewster that John Madingley
had most clearly denied all relationship
during his brief visit to Tunnleton. People
who had opened their houses freely to Dick
Madingley began now to repent their precipitation.
Some few crusty old members,
who had not benefited by Dick's hospitality.

were already whispering that 'Hie fellow
ought never to have been let in here, the
committee are not half particular enough in
their scrutiny." Let people once conceive
a suspicion that you have deceived them,
and that you are not what you represented
yourself to be, and it is wonderful how
willing they are to go into the other extreme,
and believe any wild story to your
detriment.

Dick felt that opinion was against him in
Tunnleton. He could not but notice that
many of his fair acquaintances, who had
previously quite courted a bow from him,
now seemed a little anxious to avoid meeting
him, and when they did the old smiling
salute degenerated into a frigid bend.

eyes," he mused, "the game's about up
here ; well, it has served my turn very welland
I don't know that even the finish of it
is not another trick in my favour ! The

question of settlements would have been a
rock I must have split upon ; my only
chance would have been to run away with
Edith, and old Molecombe's angry breaking-off
of our engagement only makes it easier
to win her consent to that step. A few
days more, and I've no doubt I shall get
her to agree to it." But here Dick Making
reflections were somewhat rudely interrupted
by an intimation from Phillips
that Mr. Enderby wished to see him.

^^ Mr. Enderby ! " exclaimed Dick in
great astonishment.

'^ Yes, sir," replied Phillips ; ^' he and
another gentleman, I don't know his name,
but he's often about Tunnleton, I believe;
stops a good deal at Bridge Court, sir."

Show them up to the drawing-room,
Phillips, and say I'll be with them in two
or three minutes. Enderby'' he muttered,
'^ now what can he want with me ? I hate

him, and don't suppose he has much liking
for me. What can he have got to say tome
? As for the story about John Making
why all the town knows it by this time,
he can't have come with that precious discovery
to me. And I don't think," said
Dick, meditatively, ^'he can possibly have
found out anything else; however, here
goes."

When Dick entered the drawing-room,
Maurice Enderby saluted him with a formal
bow, introduced the stranger who accompanied
him as his friend Mr. Grafton, and
then, without further preface, he continued,

^^ I need scarcely say, Mr. Madingley,
that nothing but a matter of urgent importance
would have justified this intrusion,
but if you will only listen to me patiently
for a few minutes I will endeavour to be
as brief as possible over a most unpleasant
business," and then, in pithy logical .

II. o

quench, Maurice stated the facts with which
we are abbacy acquainted, and concluded
by saying that all these things threw such
grave doubts on the minds of both himself
and his friend that he had no alternative
but to make them public.

And do you suppose, Mr. Enderby, that
I feel called upon to inform you of all the
details of my family history, of where I
usually live, who are my intimate acquaintances,
&c."

^^ No," replied Maurice, '' that will be for
the information of the club committee, and,
as for family details, I can only trust that
you will be rather more fortunate as regards
uncles than you have been so far."

The shot told. A savage scowl passed
across Dick Madingley's face, and he
muttered something, of which '' meddlesome
parsons " was all that was audible. Bob
Grafton, who had watched him keenly from

the beginning of Maurice's statement, had
noted, coolly though Dick took it, his slight
start at the mention of Mr. Pick ; he also
noted the slightly nervous twitch with which
he heard the threat of placing his case
before the club committee. '^ That fellow
will shut up when the pinch comes' thought
Grafton.

^' I have very little doubt, Mr. Enderby,"
rejoined Dick, with a sneer, 'you are intimately
acquainted with the members of the
betting ring. It is not often that any
gentleman manifests your interest in turf
matters who is not in the habit of doing
business with that fraternity. I am not
aware that you ever saw my Uncle Dobson,
but, even if you did, an accidental likeness
to an unknown betting man hardly warrants
the assertion that he is a supposititious
relation."

Maurice hesitated for a moment, but
o2

Grafton now cut into the conversation in
quiet resolute fashion that somewhat awed
Dick Madingley.

^^Oh, no! " he said, ^^ we don't make mistakes
of that kind. I'm a racing man myself,
and have known Mr. Pick by sight
ever since he nobbled Marietta for the
Oaks seven years ago. I travelled down
from London in the same carriage with you
and him ten days ago, and know perfectly
well he passed in Tunnleton as your Uncle
Dobson. Never had anybody else staying
with you, you know, since you've been in
Tunnleton. Can't be any mistake about it,
you see."

'•' And what the devil have you got to do
with it, I should like to know ? '' demanded
Dick fiercely. ^'By what right do you interfere
? "

Right ! " exclaimed Grafton, with a
short laugh. " By the right that men put

welshers out of the inclosure of the racecourse,
by the right that all men have to
defend their brethren from fraud, by the
acknowledged right and duty of every man
to expose a swindler ! "

'^ And you dare say this to me ! " cried
Dick, with a voice hoarse with passion.

'^ Yes," chimed in Maurice, "we not only
say it, but, as Grafton says, it's om duty to
say it. For the sake of some of those who
have weakly trusted you, who have weakly
welcomed you to their homes, and to whom
this exposure must be a source of bitter
shame, we are willing to hush it up as far
as may be. Give us your word to leave
Tunnleton within eight-and-forty hours, and
we will stay our hands for that time ; but
after that remember everything we know is
laid before the club committee, and your
exposure is imminent."

'^ You may do as you like about that,"

rejoined Madingley, ^'I am quite willing to
court investigation, and shall bring an action
for libel against the pair of you to boot."

'^ 'No you won't' chimed in Grafton, ^'we
are not going to be frightened by brag, and
you don't mean fighting. You'll be out of
Tunnleton in forty-eight hours."

'' Do you know, sir," rejoined Dick, with
inimitable assurance, '' that I am engaged to
be married to Miss Molecombe, and that

^' Her father kicked you out of the house
a few days ago. Yes, we know all about
that, and it is to avoid such annoyances as
this that we suggest that you should leave
Tunnleton quietly and at once — but leave
Tunnleton you will, or find yourself cut by
the whole community."

For a few minutes Dick reflected in dogged
silence, then he said —

'' Remember, I in no wise acknowledge
that the allegations you make against me

are true, although perhaps there is just that
suspicion of truth in them that makes them
difficult to disprove ; but, gentlemen, my
feelings are deeply involved as regards Miss
Molecombe, and 1 utterly decline to leave
Tunnleton for another week."

^'Ha! in order that you may continue
your clandestine meetings with that foolish
girl' interposed Maurice hotly. '^No, Mr.
Madingley ; forty-eight hours is the outside
we give you, and I honestly believe that is
twenty-four too long."

Dick looked at him for a moment.
^^ I suppose," he said, with an evil sneer,
*^ that in the interests of morality you consider
it necessary to keejD strict espionage
over your flock. I have heard of such shepherds,
but never saw one of the dirty
creatures before. You have been doing me
the honour, I presume, of dogging my footsteps
lately."

For an instant Maurice's fist clenched, his
eyes flashed the veins in his forehead stood
Omit, and it was the veriest toss-up whether
Dick Madingley measured his length on the
carpet or not ; but a '^ steady, old man," from
Grafton turned the scale, and with a mighty
effort Maurice mastered his temper.

^' I happened to see you walking with
Miss Molecombe yesterday, and knowing, as
indeed all Tunnleton knows, that her father
had forbidden all intercourse between you,
I don't scruple to say that such conduct on
your part will make gossip all too busy with
her name."

Never mind going into all that," broke
in Grafton, ^4t is quite beside the point.
Mr. Madingley thoroughly understands us —
we give him forty-eight hours to leave the
place quietly. After that, we do our best to
unmask an adventurer. No ; you needn't
talk about libel — we'll chance that. Come

along, Maurice, I don't think we need detain
Mr. Madingley any longer ; he quite understands
us."

^' I shall take my own course," blustered
Dick.

^^ Just so," rejoined Grafton; '' which
will be a ticket to London by an early train
tomorrow. Good-morning "

Dick Madingley vouchsafed not the
slightest notice of their salutation, and, when
the pair were outside the house, Maurice
exclaimed —

'' Thank heaven we are through with that.
I never was so sorely tempted to inflict personal
chastisement as I was a few minutes
ago."

'^No» I know, old man; but it would have
weakened our game terribly, and a summons
for assault is always an awkward thing for
one of your profession. He's going right
enough, never fear ; but you were right in

one thing : we ought not to have given him
more than twenty-four hours ; he's a vindictive,
mischievous cur, that, and, mark me,
Maurice, if by any fluke he ever has a
chance of squaring accounts with you he
will do it ; but he's a plausible beggar, and
there's no saying what he mayn't persuade
Miss Molecombe to do in the time we've
given him; however, we may console ourselves
with one thing : if a young woman
in these days is bent upon marrying the
wrong man she will do it sooner or later
in spite of everybody. I turn off here, so
must say good-bye. I leave Bridge Court
in two or three days now, and if you happen
to want me in re Madingley you know my
London address."

Maurice Enderby walked home musing
over his interview with Dick Madingley.
He had done the best he could think of to
prevent Edith Molecombe falling into the

hands of the audacious adventurer who had
ensnared her affections, but he was forced
to admit that Grafton was right, and that,
let the girl's father and friends do what
they would, it must depend very much upon
whether Edith could be brought to see the
utter worthlessness of her lover. On one
point of the interview Maurice looked back
regretfully, and a faint smile played round
his mouth as he muttered,

^'No, I don't think I am suited to the
profession. Ah, if I hadn't been a parson
how I would have knocked that fellow
down ! "

CHAPTER XII.

HER HEART FAILED HER.

Dick Madingley paced the drawing-room
for a good half-lour after his visitors left
him. He had decided before their coming
that it behoved him to quit Tunnleton very
shortly, and, except for Edith Molecombe,
it would suit him just as well to leave the
day after tomorrow as a week or two later ;
he would not see Edith this afternoon, ashe
was well aware that she had an engagement
that would prevent her meeting him,

and further, she had told him that she must inevitably
be discovered if their meetings were
too frequent. She was to see him tomorrow,
and the question was, should he be able to persuade
her to elope with him on the following
day ? Dick had a pretty genius for intrigue ;
no, he would not go by the morning train, for
that was the train which Tunnleton chiefly
affected, for the obvious reason that it gave
them a long day in town ; no, he would go
by the mid-day train, and, if he could persuade
Edith to come with him, well, he
would take her ; they must not go together,
and he thought if Edith travelled up second-class
and closely veiled she would run little
risk of recognition ; he would get her ticket
for her and contrive to slip it into her hand
as she passed into the station; once there
she must stick closely to the ladies' room
till the train came in, and then, if she
slipped quickly into her carriage, he thought

in the confusion she would escape all observation.
Would he be able to persuade
her to this step so abruptly ? Dick Making
had great confidence in his power over
the girl ; if that confounded parson had
only given him another week or ten days
he would have had no fears as to the result,
but most girls are startled at the idea when
such a step is first proposed to them. Dick
knew this, and, though by no means troubled
with diffidence, felt that he might not
succeed.

Grafton read him truly ; he might bluster
about what he was going to do, but Dick
Madingley knew a good deal better than
to risk an inquiry into his social status by
any of the Tunnleton people. No, he would
settle the few bills he owed in the town
that afternoon, for Dick was not an adventurer
of the petty sort that swindles the
trades-people of the place in which they

conduct their campaign ; he flew at higher
game than that, and, but for the inopportune
appearance of John Madingley on the scene,
would probably have won the prize for
which he strove. This aim, just now, was
a wealthy marriage, and in Edith Molecombe
he imagined he had found a young lady
who must eventually come into a good bit
of money, and whose father if he liked,
could behave very handsomely to her at
present. He might have had to run away
with her in any case, but he would have
figured in a very different light before
Tunnleton had his imposition regarding
John Madingley not been discovered. Yes,
if ever a man of his temperament had a debt
to settle with another he had with Maurice
Enderby, and he vowed that, should the
chance ever come, Mr. Enderby should be
paid in full. Curiously enough his ani-city
was but slightly roused as regarded

Grafton, but his antipathy to Maurice was
of long standing and had increased in intensity
day by day : this was the culmination
of it, and Dick Madingley was not likely
to be very scrupulous should he ever see
his way to revenge.

Dick Madingley had been sitting on the
stile leading into Kilroe Wood a good half-hour,
and was beginning to wonder whether
Edith would keep her appointment, when a
light step behind him caught his ear, and,
in another moment, Miss Molecombe was
by his side.

"I am very sorry I am late, Dick, but I
had a good deal of difficulty to get here at
all. I can't help thinking they suspect
something; papa said last night that he
could not think what you were still hanging
about Tunnleton for, a place in which, he
said, you were utterly discredited, and
further added that if he for one moment

thought it were on my account he would
pack me off to my aunt in Wales, and then,
as usual, we came to high words, which
ended in my flouncing out of the room and
having a good cry upstairs."

'^ It is as I thought, darling," replied Mr.
Madingley, ^' your father is commencing to
play the domestic tyrant. As long as you
stand to me, you will be continually talked
at. It is too much to ask of any girl to bear
that. Better tell your father at once, dear,
that you give me up, and then they would
let you alone."

^^ You don't mean it, Dick, you can't; you
know I wouldn't give you up."

'^ I think perhaps it would be best for you,
dearest. I must leave this tomorrow, and
though, as long as there is a hope of winning
your hand I shall be true, yet it is trying
you too hard to hold you to your engagement.
Tell your father it is broken "

YOL II. p

'^ Dick ! Dick don't think so meanly of
me ; do you think I cannot wait and suffer
patiently for your sake ?" and Edith thought
how unselfish and chivalrous her lover was
in endeavouring to make their parting as
easy as possible for her.

^^ Yes, it must be so' replied Madingley.
'' It will be sad and dreary work for me, but

there is no alternative, unless " and here

he paused abruptly, with apparent confusion.
^^ Unless what? " she exclaimed, anxiously.

^^ Nothing, nothing. Don't ask me : I
never ought to have said what I did ; forget
those last two or three words."

'^ No, I claim to hear what you were about
to suggest," replied Edith, ^' if there is any
other course open to us, I've a right to decide
whether I will take it."

At first Dick Madingley positively refused
to explain himself, but gradually the specious
impostor allowed Edith to draw from him

that she might be freed from all annoyances
and their mutual happiness secured if she
could make up her mind to run away with
him the next morning.

At first Edith was frightened out of her
life at the bare suggestion, but gradually as
Dick unfolded his scheme, and pointed out
to her the extreme simplicity of it, she began
to listen to him, and before they parted she
had pledged herself to meet him at the
Tunnleton Station, and elope with him by
the midday train, and then Miss Molecombe
scampered home with a heightened pulse
and a heart beating with unnatural rapidity.

If Edith wanted any strengthen in her
resolution it was administered to her that
night. Business at the bank had gone a
little awry; it was not that anything serious
had occurred, but an unpleasant mistake had
been made with regard to one of their best

customers' accounts, and the customer in
p 2

question, who was a wealthy and irascible
man, had gone the length of blowing up Mr.
Molecombe in his own bank parlour about the
carelessness of his subordinates. That Mr.
Molecombe had passed that on, and made
things pretty lively all round for the subordinates
in question, it is almost needless to
add, but unluckily he had not wholly worked
off his irritation at his place of business,
and poured forth the remnant of his wrath
on his own family. Having pronounced the
cook utterly incompetent, and marvelled why
Mrs. Molecombe continued to keep a woman
so incapable of cooking a mutton chop, having
informed his butler that he was an idiot,
who, after many years' experience, seemed to
know less about what should be the proper
temperature of the wine than a charity
school-boy, he, when the servants withdrew,
commenced to talk at his daughter, perhaps
the most exasperating form of attack : he

said nothing to Edith, and poured forth a
flood of ridicule and abuse to his wife on the
subject of Dick Madingley. At last Edith,
springing to her feet, exclaimed, with flashing
and tear-stained eves, that she would
bear it no longer, that she believed none of
these lies that were circulated about Mr.
Madingley, and that even if they were true
he might recollect that with his own consent
Dick Madingley had been affianced to her
for weeks. That she had given him her
love, and, come what might, she would not
sit still and hear him thrown stones at.
'^ I can bear these taunts no longer, and
sooner than continue to endure them I shall
seek a home elsewhere."

^' You had better seek your pillow at once,
Miss," replied Mr. Molecomhe, furiously,
^' and as for the home, if this is not good
enough for you, I'll make arrangements for
you to reside with your aunt in Wales.

The scenery is magnificent, and as for
society I believe there are the goats," concluded
Mr. Molecombe with grim irony.

^^ Good-night, mamma' said Edith in a
low tone, and without ever glancing at her
father she quickly left the room.

Mrs. Molecombe was a rather weak
woman and stood in no little awe of her
domineering husband, but she loved her
daughter dearly , and no sooner had the
door closed than she took up the cudgels on
her behalf.

You are too hard upon her, Alice, you
are indeed'' she exclaimed, 'the girl has
met with a bitter disappointment and is
naturally very sore at heart. Why cannot
you give the wound time to heal ? Why
will you not suffer her to do her best to
forget him ? You don't know the suffering
you inflict. You don't know that when a
girl has given her heart away what a desert

life seems to her when she is told that her
lover is worthless and that she must give
him up.

'' Confound it, woman," rejoined Mr.
Molecombe, in milder tones and with no
little contrition for his past ill-temper, '^ you
don't mean to say that it was my fault we
did not discover this Madingley was a liar
and a scoundrel sooner."

''No, Alice ; but cannot you understand

7 1 t/

that alluding to her lover's iniquities is
dropping nitric acid into Edith's wounds.
Pray, pray, leave the subject alone before
her. Don't let the name of Eichard Making
ever pass your lips."

'swell, well, perhaps I'm wrong, but the
whole thing, you know, has been so deuced
disagreeable. I am quite the laughing-stock
of the town, and then Edith makes me mad
by standing up for the young villain ; but
I'll do my best, I'll try not to say any thing

about him before Edith, and if, as I hope,
he clears out of Tunnleton before many days
are over, that will make it all the easier."

The banker lingered over his breakfast
the next morning in the hope of making
friends with his daughter, but Edith's maid
reported that her mistress was suffering from
a bad headache, and wanted nothing but a
cup of tea in her own room. Mr. Molecombe
of course went up to see her, but Edith declared
she was suffering chiefly from the
effects of a bad night and only wanted quiet
and to be let alone. She had made up her
mind that this would be her best chance
of escaping all observation ; it was easy
enough to get out of the house and make her
way to the station, but the difficulty was to
carry a hand-bag with her ; more baggage
she dared not attempt, but even that little
would attract attention, should any of the
servants catch sight of her departure. Once

clear of the house, and the getting to the
station by roads by which she was not likely
to meet acquaintances was easy. In due
course she rang for her maid and dressed,
then ordered a cup of strong beef-tea and
desired not to be disturbed till luncheon
time. A quarter of an hour afterwards, and,
closely veiled, hot though the weather was,
with her dressing-bag in her hand, she stole
down the back stairs into the garden ; a light
shawl thrown carelessly over her arm veiled
the dressing-bag. One piece of lawn dangerously
open to observation was safely
crossed, and then Edith plunged into the
shrubberies and felt safe. No chance of
meeting any one now, unless it was some
under-gar done. No. She felt the perils of
her enterprise were over until she arrived
in the purlieus of Tunnleton Station.

Edith passed into the booking-office unnoticed,
and then stood irresolute, not knowing

how to act. She glanced at the clock,
and saw there was a quarter of an hour yet
before the train was due. Had she better
take her ticket while the office was as yet
uncrowded, or leave the obtaining of it to
Dick?

While she still hesitated a voice whispered
in her ear —

^' Go into the waiting-room at once;
don't come out till the bell rings, and then
jump as quickly as possible into the nearest
carriage," while at the same time she felt
her ticket slipped into her hand.

Without turning her head she made her
way into the waiting-room as directed, and
there, in a state of some trepidation, awaited
the signal of the coming train. A few
minutes and the bell rang out its warning
for passengers to take their seats. Grasping
her dressing-bag, Edith made her way
swiftly to the platform ; but as she crossed

the threshold stopped paralysed, for there,
not half a score paces from her, stood
her father in animated conversation with
some gentleman, whom he was apparently
seeing off to London. To reach her part of
the train she must pass close to him, and she
could hardly hope that he would not instantly
recognise her. Her heart failed her,
she shrank back again into the waiting-room,
intent only on escaping her father's
recognition.

Dick Madingley had been also terribly
discomposed by the appearance of the
banker. He judged it wisest to attract as
little attention to himself as possible, and,
therefore, instead of lingering, as he had intended,
to see Edith emerge from the ,
he got into his carriage and took
a seat on the far side from the window.
Another two or three minutes and they were
off, and Madingley was left to wonder the

whole way up whether his fiancee had
effected her escape.

'' It could hardly have been a mere
chance," he muttered; ^Hhis is some of
Enderby's work, I'll be bound. IVe no
doubt he or his creatures have dogged my
every footstep ; he doubtless bribed someone
of my servants to know by what train I
was going to town, and put old Molecombe
up to seeing me off. His taking his stand
where he did was probably accident, but
there he was like a terrier at a rabbit-hole.
I don't suppose Edith is in the train, she is
a clever and a plucky girl if she managed to
get past him."

On his arrival in London, Mr. Madingley
speedily convinced himself that his surmise
was correct, and, with a furious malediction
on Maurice Enderby, he drove off to the
scene of his usual avocations.

In supposing that the banker's appearance

at the station was due to maurice Enderby,
Dick Madingley was mistaken. It was the
result of pure accident. The irascible customer
of the day before had called in to
have a little more talk with Mr. Mole-combe
of a less fiery description, and,
not having been able to quite finish his say
and being at the same time anxious to catch
the London train, the banker had walked
down to the station with him in order to
finish their discussion.

His client off, Mr. Molecombe at once
turned his back u2Don the railway and retraced
his steps to the bank. But Edith had
no more idea of this than her lover. ,
she thought her premeditated
elopement had been discovered, and sat
trembling in the most retired corner of the
waiting-room, expecting every instant to see
her father enter in search of her. When a
quarter-of-an-hour had elapsed, and she saw

no sign of anyone in quest of her, she
ventured to peep once more cautiously out
of the door. The platform was nearly
deserted ; except for a boy cutting papers at
the bookstall, and a grimy gentleman assiduously
engaged in cleaning lamps, there was
no one visible. The very porters were allover
on the other side of the line, awaiting
the down train.

Edith began to recover her courage.
Whatever caused her father's presence there,
it was possible, could she only regain her
home unnoticed, that her escapade of this
morning might be kept a secret. Fortune
favoured her, and she regained her own
room unnoticed, some quarter-of-an-hour
before luncheon, without any one suspecting
that she had been beyond the
shrubberies.

CHAPTER XIII.

'the SPOTTED DOG."

TuNNLETON was quite in a ferment during
the next day or two. The Torkeslys, the
Prauns, and the Maddoxeses were much excited
about the sudden departure of Richard
Madingley.

Given up his house, by Jove ! " said
General Maddox in his usual deliberate
tones; 'paid off all his servants, and has
cleared off without beat of drum ; hasn't
left a P. P.O. card anywhere that I can hear.

Looks queer, sir. Gad, I don't believe that
fellow was quite right after all ! "

^^ Right, Maddox ! " replied the irascible
Praun, who was always in extremes, and
who flew from one view to a diametrically
opposite one, quickly as the wind flies round
the compass, " I have no doubt he was the
most confounded impostor that ever put
foot in the place. Took us all in, damn
his impudence ! "

"Very disgraceful, Praun," replied General
Maddox, shaking his head; ^ though, to do
him justice, he did give good dinners''

'eyes," replied the other ; "and, scoundrel
though he was," a remark, by the way, for
which General Praun had very scant justification,
" I should like to know, before he
is hung, where he got his after-dinner
sherry ; but I don't know what's coming
to us: the place is getting turned topsy-turvy
; what do you think I passed on

THE Sj?OTTED BOG. 225

my way here? Mrs. Enderby, if you
please, driving a carriage and a pair of
ponies. Now I hate gossip ; I don't want
to meddle in my neighbour's affairs, but
when you see a phenomenon, such as a
curate setting up his carriage and pair,
one can't help asking how he does it."

'livery stable probably," rejoined General
Maddox ; '' trap for the day, you know ;
two ponies, though ? Quite beyond his
means," concluded the general, with a
shake of his head.

'' Means ! '' cried Praun ; '' nothing is
beyond the means of a gambler while he is
in luck. How Jarrow can reconcile it to
his conscience, how Tunnleton can submit
to a parson within its midst, who, instead
of attending to his duties, is devoted to
speculating on the turf, passes my comprehension
! " and in good truth for the next
few days the backsliding of Richard

VOL. II. Q

Madingley and Maurice) Enderby divided
the attention of the town.

But for all that there are not wanting in
any community worshippers of the rising
sun. To these worldly people that Mrs.
Enderby should have turned out a veritable
niece of John Madingley and have set up
her pony-carriage were signs indicative of
coming prosperity that they deemed unwise
to neglect. They reminded each other that
the Enderbys, although they had said
nothing, had always held strictly aloof from
Richard Madingley's entertainments: in facta
slight reaction was already setting in in
Maurice's favour, although the two generals
had by no means abandoned their hostile
attitude.

But now that fatal wedding gift once
more began to haunt Maurice, once more
to send the blood dancing through his veins,
once more aroused visions of a broad, green-ribbon

turf, white rails, silken jackets,
and half a score of horses tearing up " the
straight '' at full speed. Doncaster meeting
commenced in a few days ; the sporting
papers were, so far, nearly unanimous in
predicting that the Wandering Nun would
win the Champagne Stakes, and, strive to
banish it from his mind though he might,
it was all no use, and Maurice Enderby was
once more feverishly anxious about the
result of the race. He had not dared to
ask Grafton to telegraph to him again,
although he knew that gentleman would beat
Doncaster. The employed at the telegraph
office are not altogether reticent about
the messages that pass through their hands,
and it was pretty well known through
Tunnleton that Mr. Enderby had been the
first man in the town to know of the
Wandering Nun's victory at Goodwood.

Generals Maddox and Praun could hardly
q2

be blamed for holding that Maurice speculated
on the turf, for it would be very difficult
to have persuaded the Tunnleton people
generally of that, and while the respectable
part of the community regarded a betting
clergyman as an anomaly that could not be
suffered in these days, there was a minor
and godless section who had much admiration
for Mr. Enderby's astuteness. It is hard to
stem the tide of calumny, more especially
when such calumny is based on such apparent
grounds as there were in Maurice's
case. His own acts too combined strongly
to strengthen the prevalent belief, the interest
he had manifested in racing, the telegram,
his sudden command of money, and,
last not least, what his enemies in Tunnel
termed his arrogance and effrontery insetting
up a carriage and pair of ponies.

Most of us have some few sworn friends
who will stand by us unflinchingly should

disaster overtake us, who, if unable to assist
us in our trouble, we know will always meet
us with sincere sympathy and a hearty hand-grip)
; there are others who, though loyal
enough in the first instance, begin to weaver
as the tide runs high, who begin to calculate
and doubt whether they are prudent in
championing what looks like a lost cause.
Politic and rather timid people some of these
willing to take our part in the first instance,
but afraid that it may be to their own detriment
to continue their partisanship when
they find the clouds of popular opinion are
gathering thickly around us. Now this was
rather Mr. Jarrow's case ; he had stood
stanch by Maurice in the first instance,
but even that had not been friendship, but
his natural obstinacy, combined with much
indignation that men like Generals Maddox
and Praun should venture to interfere in
affairs of his. But he was beginning now to

waver in this belief in his curate ; evidence
continued apparently to accumulate against
Mr. Enderby, and that Tunnleton gave
credence to such evidence was unmistakeable.
Maurice too declined any explanation,
and, except to the rector, had hardly condescended
to deny the accusation brought
against him. Mr. Jarrow began to think
that it behoved Maurice at least to refute the
charge to the utmost extent of his power.
He, the rector, in his interview with Generals
Maddox and Praun had actually blustered
about bringing an action for libel, and yet
Maurice sat down supinely under the scandal,
and made no effort to remove the taint from
his name. The rector was of a pugnacious
disposition, and never happy unless engaged
in a wordy war with somebody, and it was
wormwood to him that Maurice, by the attitude
he had taken, precluded all continuance
of his quarrel with the two generals.

In good truth, ever since Grafton had
put the idea into his head, which John mainly
had considerably strengthened, Maurice
had been weighing in his mind the
propriety of his giving up the Church. He
had tried it, and, though he had conscientiously
performed his duties, still he felt he was
in no wise fitted for the profession. He had
taken to it as a means of living, but before
seeking ordination as priest he felt that a man
should have some higher feeling regarding
it than that, and now he was once more
bitten by the turf fever, and, do what he
would, could not keep the '' Champagne" out
of his head. The success of the wandering
Nun " was not the great object which it
had been to him when she secured her first
victory ; he was no longer pressed for money,
but nobody exists in such affluent circumstances
as not to be very well pleased at the
idea of having a little more of that useful

commodity. Still it was not so much that,
as was the interest he took in the career of
the flying filly ; and if it had not made a
penny difference to him he would have been
still as deeply interested in the issue of her
forth-coming essay at Doncaster.

The next two or three days slipped by,
and at last came the opening day of the
great Yorkshire meeting, and Maurice knew
that at three o'clock this race, the winner of
which so often made his mark in turf history,
was to be decided. As the afternoon wore
on he could no longer control his restlessness.
They must know it in the town now, the
telegram must have arrived at the club, but
he did not wish to make any further scandal.
He supposed he inst wait till he got his
paper the next morning, but he was resolute
not to look in at the club for fear of what
might be said as to his reason for coming
there.

He wandered aimlessly about the town
till in an evil moment his vagrant footsteps
brought him outside a second-class hotel
called '' The Spotted Dog." He knew this
house by repute, he knew it bore the reputation
of being a sporting-house, and he had
heard some of the young men at the club
declare that they knew what had won a big
race at '' The Spotted Dog " always a quarter
of an hour sooner than anywhere else in
Tunnleton. In an evil moment he resolved
just to step in and ask the question.
He cast a hurried glance up and down the
street, but there were not many people moving
about, and nobody he knew was insight.
He ran up the three or four steps and
glanced rapidly round for some one of whom
to make inquiries. A small knot of rather
raffish looking young men were gathered
in front of the bar, and one of these saved
him all further trouble.

'' There you are, sir," he said, pointing
to the tissue fastened up in the bar window,
^ ' won in a canter ; that ' Wandering Nun '
is about the best bit of stuff Mr. Brooks ever
owned."

Maurice bent his head in acknowledgement
of the speaker's civility, and retreated
rapidly into the street, which he gained justin
time to receive a frigid bow from Miss
Torkesly, just issuing from a shop on the
other side of the road. Maurice knew all
was over as he raised his hat. He felt
that Tunnleton would never tolerate this
fresh iniquity, that he would be cast out
from among them. That question of resigning
the Church was being much simplified,
as he could not but think, looking back
upon his imprudence. There was much
likelihood of the Church resigning him. It
was well that it was a nice day for walking,
for Miss Torkesly had seldom enjoyed a

busier time than was her lot that afternoon.
To whisper into the ears of all her friends
and acquaintances that she had seen Mr.
Enderby coming out of " The Spotted Dog "
was Miss Torkesly's clear and bounden duty
before she slept.

^'So dreadful, my dear. Of course we
all knew that the poor infatuated man gambled,
but I'm afraid he drinks as well."

'rit is terrible, but I believe they usually
both go together. Fancy, to be seen coming
out of ' The Spotted Dog ' in broad daylight
! I didn't know what to do, and I am
afraid I bowed, my dear. Just fancy ! bowing
to a man who came out of ' The Spotted
Dog.' I was too confused and horrified to
see, but I daresay he was even walking unsteadily''


Yes, before twenty-four hours were over,
the greater part of Tunnleton was aware of
Maurice's delinquency. About how the unfortunate

man left 'the Spotted Dog" accounts
varied according to the imagination
of the narrator. He was variously described
as being the worse for liquor, having reeled
down the street or carried home insensible
to his wife. Such a schedule of wrongdoing
as was now filed against Maurice
Enderby was more than a man could hope
utterly to refute.

It was not likely that Mr. Jarrow would
be long left in ignorance of his curate's
questionable proceedings. Mrs. Praun picked
up the news in the course of her afternoon
rambles. The general quite bubbled with
excitement upon hearing of it. ^'Ah/' he
said, 'ewe will see what Jarrow has to say
to this. He took a precious high hand with
me, and threatened me — me! General Praun,
with an action for libel, told me that he had
Mr. Enderby 's own word for it that he
never bet upon horses, and, when I pointed

out this sudden plentiful supply of money,
he informed me that he had nothing to do
with that. Mr. Enderby had probably relations
who assisted him from time to time.
Ah ! " continued the general, with a triumphant
snort, ^' I suppose he was looking for
one of those relatives at ' The Spotted Dog,'
and wee shall hear next that his duties necessitate
his attendance at a public billiard-room ;
but 111 have it out with Jarrow tomorrow
morning''

General Praun was as good as his word.
Habitually an early man, he was at the
rector's house almost as soon as he had
finished his breakfast, and desired to see
him. Shown into Mr. Jarrow's study, he
plunged at once into his subject, and dilated
upon it with such volubility that his astounded
host was unable to get a word in.

^* I told you so, Jarrow, I have told you
all alon, that this paragon of a curate of

yours was a dissolute young man quite unfitted
for his position. There is nothing
remarkable in it ; you are not the first rector
by many who has been similarly deceived ;
but you are so obstinate ; you shut your ears
to what your parishioners tell you."

'^ Obstinate? me?" suddenly interposed the
Rev. Jacob. '^ If there was ever a man open
to conviction ; if ever there was a man prepared
to listen to facts or contravention of
his own opinions, I flatter myself I am that
man."

Very good, then," said General Praun.
^* You have been told that Enderby gambles.
You now hear upon unimpeachable testimony
that he frequents what, though he may call ita
second-class hotel, I should denominate a
sporting public. If you think that befitting
one of your cloth well and good, but you
won't find Tunnleton agree with you''

'^ I need scarcely say," rejoined Mr.

JaiTow, who had by this time somewhat
recovered himself, '' that I have heard
nothing of this before ; that I should make
inquiry into such a rumour is matter of
course."

^^ It is no matter of rumour, I tell you,"
snapped Praun, irritably.

'' Then, sir," rejoined Mr. Jarrow, in his
pompous manner, '^ it will be so much the
easier to investigate. Humours are difficult
to grapple with ; facts demand explanation.
I shall withhold my opinion till I
have spoken to Mr. Enderby on the subject."


And the rather stately bow with which
Mr. Jarrow intimated that their interview
was at an end made the hot-tempered
Praun's very pulses tingle.

'^ They take too much upon themselves,
these parsons. By Jove ! Jarrow dismissed
me as I used to dismiss a subaltern in the

old days. Bowed me out as if I had been
a mere nobody instead of a general officer."
And with these thoughts Praun fumed along
on his way to study the daily papers at the
Tunnleton Club.

CHAPTER XIV.

BETTER I SHOULD RETIRE NOW.'^

Maurice told his wife that evening what
had happened; and Bessie at first by no
means realized the consequence of his imprudence.
She did not even know, as was
very natural, the name of this second-class
hostelry. She did not see that because
upon one occasion her husband once entered
an hotel it should be looked upon as any
great crime on his part. A score of reasons
might have taken him there — reasons which

VOL. II. R

might be proclaimed from the house-tops.
And it was not until Mam-ice explained to
her that ^^ The Spotted Dog" had th reputation
of being a sporting-house, pointed
out to her that Doncaster races were going
on, and reminded her that he had been
charged with betting on horse-racing, and
that, though it was not true, his denial
thereof had never been half believed in
Tunnleton, — that she grasped what would
probably be the outcome of this last imprudence.


Ah, Maurice," she said, ^' Uncle John
meant well, and from a money point of
view his gift has proved princely, but I
am afraid it will turn out a fatal wedding
present in the end."

^'You are always saying that," he re-rejoined,
testily; ^^but I think this last
escapade is very likely to terminate my
engagement at Tunnleton. Jarrow stood

by me in the first instance like a thorough
gentleman. He took my word that the
charge was false, and refused to listen
further to what my traducers said, but, looking
back, I think that was due in part to
the natural combativeness of his nature ;
moreover, he will very likely tire of perpetually
fighting my battles. Do you know,
Bessie, I am thinking seriously of giving
up the Church."

Now, much as he had thought over this
himself, Maurice had never said a word to
his wife on the subject, and her first feeling
was that of repugnance at the idea. '' Oh,
Maurice," she said, " you would surely never
do that ! "

«' \Yhy not ?" he said ; "it is surely better

that I should retire now than become positively

enrolled in a profession for which I feel 1 am

unfitted. I shall never make a good clergy


man, but I thmk I have stuff in me, and
could do good work in some other calling."

Still, Bessie was not to be reconciled to
the idea ; she urged him to consider well
what he was about, pointing out that, though
he might have been imprudent, he had
really done nothing wrong, and that there
were other places besides Templeton in
which he could obtain a curacy.

*' Oh, it's a thing that there will be plenty
of time to think about. Jarrow is not likely
to wish me to leave until he has found
some one to supply my place. However,
we shall doubtless have some conversation
on the subject tomorrow, as a conflagration
in a high wind speaketh not so quick as
scandal in the mouth of the Torkeslys."

Maurice had not long to wait. General
Praun had left the house not ten minutes
when a servant was on his way to Mr.
Enderby's with a note, intimating that the

rector wanted to see him as soon as possible.
Maurice was quite as anxious for the
interview as Mr. Jarrow, and accordingly
lost no time in making the best of his way
to the rectory. He was admitted at once
to the Reverend Jacob's sanctum, and there
found that gentleman in a most unmistakable
state of fume and fidget. It was
matter of deep annoyance to Mr. Jarrow
when any protege of his — and he was much
given to taking people up — was found wanting
; he prided himself especially upon insight
into character, and that his swans
should occasionally turn out geese was
always sore vexation to him. He snatched
greedily at all petty pieces of patronage
which fell at all within his reach ; from the
nomination of a pew-opener to recoil ending
cr a man as a fit candidate for the town
constabulary, Mr. Jarrow always endeavoured
to have a finger in the pie ; that any

curate of his should be deemed unfit for his
position was easting much discredit on his
sagacity.

'^ Sit down, Mr. Enderby' he remarked,
their first greetings over. '' I have sent for
you upon a very unpleasant business ; but
the fact has been pointedly brought to my
notice, and it is incumbent upon me to ask
you for an explanation."

^' I will save you all further preamble, Mr.
Jarrow," replied Maurice. '' You have been
told that I was seen coming out of ' The
Spotted Dog ' yesterday. Perfectly true,
I was. — Why did I go in there ? To learn
the result of a race in which my wife's uncle,
John Madingley, had got a horse running.
Had I any bets on it ? Most certainly not.
I never have bet upon horse-racing, except
in a very trifling way before I married, and
most assuredly I have never wagered a sixpence
since on that or anything else."

Mr. Jarrow paused for some minutes
before he replied. He thoroughly believed
Maurice, but then he felt at the same time
that nineteen people out of twenty in
Tunnleton would not.

^^Mr. Enderby," he said at length,
although I am quite willing to accept your
explanation, you must be aware that the
public will not. As some eminent man,
whose name just now I forget, has said,
mistakes are worse than crimes. You must
forgive my saying that since you have been
among us your life seems to have been a
succession of blunders. You have, by your
own imprudence, put yourself so completely
in the wrong light, that I am afraid it will
be impossible to convince the public that
you don't gamble, and, from what I heard
this morning, they are likely to add drink to
your transgressions. I have stood by you
as long as I could, but you must excuse my

saying," and few would have given the
pompous rector credit for the kindliness
with which the words fell from his lips,
^^that, under the circumstances, you can
exercise no influence for good in the
parish."

I quite agree with you, Mr. Jarrow,"
replied Maurice, quickly, '' and, as you were
doubtless about to say it is better under
those circumstances we should part, we will
look upon that as clearly understood between
us, and I shall remain now only so long as
suits your convenience."

"' Well, Mr. Enderby, you have taken the
words out of my mouth, but I do think that
will be the best arrangement we can arrive
at. Shall we say, sir, about two months
from this date ? That will give you time to
look round as well as me."

^^I have to thank you, Mr. Jarrow," said
Maurice rising, '^ for much kindness since I

have been here, and shall be very glad to
time my departure with regard to your convenience.
As for myself, let me tell you in
strict confidence that I have quite made up
my mind to resign the profession. And
now, for the present, I will say good-morning."


Mr. Jarrow remained for some time after
Maurice's departure in a brown study. He
shook his head two or three times, like a
man who has come across a phenomenon
beyond his comprehension. He had had
curates resign before now, but this was his
first experience of a young man resigning
the profession as well as the curacy.

It soon became evident to Maurice that
Tunnleton society was unfeignedly shocked
at the last scandal in connection with his
name. That he should dabble in horse -
racing had been deplorable, shocking in the
eyes of most people, but a clergyman who

^^ frequented public houses" (that he had
only been seen entering one once was a fact
quite lost sight of) had put himself quite
without the pale. When Tunnleton heard
that he was going away, it shook its head,
and opined that Mr. Jarrow could do no less.
It was a sad pity that a young man should
be so depraved, but of course he was useless
in his present position, and Tunnleton feared
would do no good any where. And now
curiously enough a reaction set in in favour
of Mrs. Enderby. How it began one hardly
knew, but Bessie had made some few friends
in the place, and it probably owed its origin
to them. It suddenly became the fashion to
express great commiseration for ^^ poor Mrs.
Enderby," and society delighted to paint imaginary
pictures of Bessie vainly attempting
to keep her husband in the straight path. It
was difficult to say which suffered most from
the new order of things — Maurice or his wife.

He on his part was subject to the most freezing
return to his salutations, but I doubt if
that was so hard to bear as the ostentatious
pity to which his wife was subjected.
Nothing was ever said to her, but the ladies of
Tunnleton had determined that she was to
be pitied and condoled with, and their faces
could not have expressed more mournful
sympathy had she been lamenting the actual
loss of husband. They both agreed that
Tunnleton was unendurable, and Maurice
speedily asked Mr. Jarrow to release him as
soon as possible.

Two people there were who Maurice determined
to take into his confidence. One
of these was Frank Chylton, to whom he had
already told the story of his singular wedding
gift. He now thought it only right to
explain to him the itching curiosity that
had led him to commit the imprudence of
entering ^^ The Spotted Dog." The other
was General Shrewster. The latter had

heard the whole story of the wedding present
from John Madingley, and the comic
side of the business had tickled him immensely.


'' I can understand his reticence," he said,
'' but I am afraid it is destined to do him a
good deal of harm here. You see this is an
eminently respectable place, extremely orthodox
and all that sort of thing, and when
people are that, they are always not willing
but greedy to believe the very worst of their
neighbours."

But when Maurice told him of this second
imprudence the general simply roared with
laughter.

^'My dear Enderby," he said, 'Mio
could you do it ? You know you were, so to
speak, under the ban of Tunnleton, now
you'll be positively outlawed ; what are you
going to do ? You will never make head
against it."

'' I am not going to try," replied Maurice
quietly ; ^^ I have resigned my curacy and
am only waiting now as a convenience to
Mr. Jarrow. Further, general, I consider
myself unsuited to the profession, and am
going to adopt some other calling."

'' There I think you are right ; it's a
pity that you've thrown away a whole
year, but anything is better than a lifelong
mistake. I can only say 1 shall be
very glad to help you should it at all lie in
my power. As far as ways and means go,
your uncle promised to assist you to a start;
still, I should be afraid his interest would
lie chiefly in the profession you are about
to abandon. For myself, I have none
except in my old trade."

^^ Thank you very much, general," replied
Maurice ; ''I will ask for your good
word without fail should I want it, but at

present I have not made up my mind as
to what I shall do."

Will you let me give you one piece of
advice, the warning of a man who has been
through the furnace : keep clear of the racecourse
whatever you do. I was a rich man
once, and should be so now bad I not been
bitten by the turf tarantula. I took the
fever very badly, and, unless I very much
mistake, you are a man likely to contract
it in its most virulent form. It makes your
pulses tingle even now, and you will probably
be quite carried away if you find
yourself in the thick of the fray. There, I
am going to say no more," said the general,
laughing ; ''a word is more likely to be
remembered than a sermon in these cases.
Of course my mouth is closed about what
you have told me, but I think the sooner
you allow Chylton and myself to make the
whole story public the better''

I don't want it published until I am
gone," replied Maurice ; '^ I am too angry
to care to right myself in the eyes of the
people here ; and now I will say good-bye
for the present."

END OF VOL. II.

WESTMINSTER :

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

A

.v •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •• ••

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

3 0112 042045010

./^ .A .>^ .A ,/- > .# ,.>^ ,A .,A ,>

«> «9 «« a» «• «» '»» 9« 9* «» 9«

,. .^ . A A ,. j^ „| ., ,^ , ^„^ .^f^ I ^ -^ ,^ ^ ■. w .^ ,^ ^ .w .^ ^ A A J. i. -^ ^ /w.^ ^ ■> -. A J. ^ y< ^ .-^ ^ >. i.^^ .^1. ^L

.A ./^ .^ ./ ,/■ ,^ ./■ ,J^ /- ;/- .^

• • •• •» *• *9 •« •> •• •• •* •*

OF THL

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS


drii2ra

V.3

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

The person charging this material is responsible for its

renewal or return to the library on or before the due

date. The minimum fee for a lost item is $125.00,

$300.00 for bound journals.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons

for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from

the University. Please note: self-stick notes may result

in torn pages and lift some inks.

Renew via the Telephone Center at 217-333-8400,

846-262-1510 (toll-free) orcirclib@uiuc.edu.

Renew online by choosing the My Account option at:

http://www.library.uiuc.edu/catalog/

iAR a 5 mi

% gavel

BY

HAWLEY SMART,

AUTHOR OF "Breeze LANGTON," "FROM POST TO FINISH;
THE GREAT TONTINE," ETC,, ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. Il

LONDON: CHAPMAN and HALL
Limited

1887.

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS

2o, PARLIAMENT STREET.

V. 3

CONTENTS OF VOL. Ill,

CHAPTER I. PAGE

A LITTLE DINNER . 1

CHAPTER II.

RIPE FOR TEMPTATION 18

CHAPTER Til.

EPSOM Downs 35

CHAPTER IV.

EDITH GETS OVER IT . . . . . . .53

CHAPTER V.

A BLACK ASCOT . 69

CHAPTER VI.

"the PALACE STAKES " 86

CHAPTER VII.

THE GOLD CUP 103

CHAPTER VIII.

THE NEWS OF ISANDHLWANA . 120

CHAPTER IX.

THE LEAGUER 134

CHAPTER X.

A PERILOUS RIDE . . . . . . .151

CHAPTER XI.

A NIGHT ATTACK . . . . . . .168

CHAPTER XII.

THE NEWS COMES HOME . . . . . .187

CHAPTER XIII.

CONVALESCENCE 204

CHAPTER XIV.

TUNNLETON CHANGES ITS OPINION 221

CHAPTER XV.

THE Leger " 238

CHAPTER XVI.

THE BIVOUAC 253

CHAPTER XVII.
the storming of the kraal 272

Conclusion . 203

CHAPTER I.

A LITTLE DINNER.

Next week brought two things to Maurice
Enderby : first, a jubilant letter from old
John Madingley, enclosing a very handsome
cheque on account of the '^ Champagnes'
sand though," he added, '^I was not there to
see, and indeed never have seen the Wandering
Nun run except that time at
Goodwood, yet I am convinced she is the
best I ever owned ; let her only keep welland
the Oaks is a moral certainty for her

VOL. III. B

next spring." The other letter was from
Bob Grafton, and ran as follows :
dear Maurice,

^^I am afraid you are about the most
hopelessly ruined man of my acquaintance.
A man who has only to sit still and see
hundred-pound notes dropping into his lapis
certain to deteriorate ; he is bound to get
out of the idea of ever earning his living
in future. The filly is a clipper, and made
a perfect show of her field on Tuesday.
By the way, I met young Balders at Doncaster
and he tells me that you are about
to leave Tunnleton. What does that mean?
Are you tired of it or has the petulant little
place tired of you ? When we cast out
from its bosom your most virulent foe —
Richard Madingley — if that really is his
name — I thought that Tunnleton would be
bound to acknowledge its obligation to you.
Do you know I saw that precious young

scoundrel in the outer ring on the Leger
day ; he was in close conference with Pick
and one or two more of the same kidney ;
you may depend upon it he is a regular
hanger-on of the turf : I don't mean of the
jackal species, but he has no more right to
the social status he assumed in Tunnleton
than he probably has to the name of Richard
Madingley. I shall be glad to hear about
why you are leaving Tunnleton, also what
are your intended movements. I presume
you are in search of a fresh curacy, or can
it be possible that you have made up your
mind to resign the profession ? Kindest
regards to Mrs. Enderby, and tell her her
pretty turn-out requires no outriders, though
I admit the Wandering Nun is enough to
tempt her fortunate owners into the most
profuse expenditure.

Ever yours,

'* Egbert Grafton,"
B 2

As he finished the letter Maurice could
not help thinking that perhaps the one good
thing he had done at Tunnleton was compelling
Richard Madingley to leave the
place, and so saving Edith Molecombe from
rushing on her fate. He little dreamt
of how, if chance had not intervened, his
efforts would have been unavailing, and
that, but for a valued client of her father s
having proved rather long-winded, Edith
would have been the partner of Dick Ma-dingle's
compulsory retreat. The person
who not a little astonished Maurice at this
juncture was Mr. Molecombe ; the banker
had called upon the Enderbys at the instigation
of his partner, Frank Chylton, when
they first made their appearance in Tunnel
and when the rumours to Maurice's
discredit arose there could be no doubt
that he rather dropped them. He did not
take a rabid view of Maurice's conduct like

General Praun, and thought, probably, that
report considerably exaggerated his misdoings,
but he did think that Mr. Enderby
was not exactly an acquaintance to cultivate.
He was cautious and civil enough
when they met, but he no longer asked the
Enderbys to his house. Now a reaction
had arisen in his mind ; he knew that
Maurice was bond fide John Madingley's
nephew by marriage, just as he knew that
Dick was an impostor. Very sore about
the somewhat ridiculous position he had been
placed in, he had a sort of hazy idea that
he owed reparation to the right man ; he
felt that he had been swayed very much in
his judgment by Richard Madingley, and,
being a tolerably clear-sighted man, thought
that Maurice lead perhaps had hard justice
dealt out to him. Mr. Jarrow, for instance,
would hardly have taken his curate's part
without being satisfied that the allegations

against him were untrue ; as for this last
scandal, he had taken the trouble to make
a few inquiries concerning it, and easily
ascertained that "frequenting" meant that
he had been once seen coming out of 'the
Spotted Dog." As Mr. Molecombe remarked
to himself, '^ A gentleman don't live close
upon a twelvemonth in a place like Tunnel
without the fact of his frequenting
public-houses being known."

Maurice, unable to think of any other
reason for the banker's increased cordiality,
at last attributed it to the satisfactory
balance standing to his account, still, he
was rather taken aback at Bessie's getting
a note from Mrs. Molecombe asking them
to waive ceremony and come and dine ina
friendly way.

There are wheels within wheels even in
an invitation to dinner ; and the conceit
would be taken out of a good many of us

could we know the real reason why weare
bidden to the feast. We should be
astonished to find how rarely it is for our
own sakes. It was quite true that Mr.
Molecombe was disposed to be much more
cordial to the Enderbys than he had been,
but for this invitation they were indebted
in a great measure to his daughter. Edith
Molecombe was much depressed about the
tangle of her love affair. That she was
very earnest in her love for Dick Madingley
was evinced by her consenting to elope with
him. She had heard nothing of him since
that brief peremptory whisper in Tunnleton
Station when he had slipped her ticket into
her hand. She had heard — it is difficult to
say quite how, but young ladies in Edith's
situation do contrive to get news of their
truant lovers in marvellous fashion — that
Mr. Enderby and a strange gentleman had
called upon Richard Madingley only a day

or two before his departure. Now Edith
Molecombe knew very well that Maurice
was no friend of Dick Madingley ; she
knew, on the contrary, that the Enderbys
had been rather pointedly excluded from
the two or three garden-parties Dick had
given. It was therefore, decidedly, not asa
friend that Maurice would call there. She
fretted dreadfully over this mysterious silence
on the part of her lover ; he must have seen
her father at the station, and have understood
why she had to abandon their scheme.
She was unable to write to him, as she did
not know his address ; but he, if he chose,
could have no difficulty in letting her hear
from him. Whatever Mr. Enderby's business
might have been, it was possible that
it might throw some light upon her lover's
silence. In the course of the evening, she
thought, she should have no difficulty in
questioning Maurice on this point.

The Enderbys, at Maurice's instigation,
accepted the invitation. He was quite as
curious to have some conversation with
Edith Molecombe as she was with him. He
knew her but slightly, and had taken no
particular interest in her till the events of
the last few days had brought her so prominently
to his notice.

The only people asked to meet them were
the Chyltons. These acted as a sort of connecting
link between the Enderbys and
their host, and, as the banker kept an
undeniable cook, the little dinner passed
off gaily. A regret was expressed at the
coming departure of Maurice and his wife,
but the subject was not unduly dwelt upon.
Richard Madingley and his misdemeanours
were naturally not alluded to ; and, in short,
when the gentlemen joined the ladies in the
drawing-room, everything had gone off most
sociably and pleasantly. Mr. Molecombe

was no niggard, he thoroughly enjoyed
entertaining, and, though he would have
been puzzled to explain what had induced
him to give this little banquet, yet he had
got on very well with Maurice, and had
come to the conclusion that gentleman was a
very good fellow. Taking up his favourite
position on the hearth rug, Mr. Molecombe
rather confused Mrs. Chylton and Mrs.
Enderby by favouring them with his views
on the political state of the country, while
Edith carried Maurice off to a distant table
to look over photographs. She was a young
lady of considerable determination, and lost
no time in broaching the subject that was
nearest her heart.

^'Mr. Enderby," she said in a low voice,
^^ I have one question to ask you. Will you
answer it ? ''

'^ If it really is only one question," rejoined
Maurice, smiling, ^^ I think I might

say yes ; but one question is very apt to
lead to a string."

'^ Why did you call upon Mr. Madingley
last week ? He was no friend of yours
'surely ? "

"Certainly not," said Maurice, ^'I called
to see him on business."

"That is no answer," replied the girl
quickly, ^' what business ? ''

^' That is another question, and I must
think a moment before I answer it."

There was a pause of Several seconds, and
then Maurice continued —

^'I am not sure that it would be fair
to tell you that. Like everybody else in
Tunnleton, I am of course aware of the relation
in which you lately stood to him. I
should be exceedingly sorry to say anything
that might hurt your feelings, and therefore,
if you please, we will leave the subject
where it is."

'' No, no," she said quickly, '' tell me all ;
whether for good or evil I have a right to
know what men say concerning him."

Again Maurice hesitated for some little
time. At last he answered slowly, ^' Perhaps
you are right, you ought to know. If
I give you sain forgive me. At any rate I
will be brief. I saw Richard Madingley, in
company with a friend of mine, to inform
him that he was down here under false
colours, and that it was my duty to unmask
him before all Tunnleton, unless he thought
proper to avoid such scandal by leaving the
place in forty-eight hours."

^^ And what induced you to tell such a lie
as that ? " said Edith, with quivering lips.

'^ I had tolerable proof of what I asserted,
and that Mr. Madingley thought there was
some truth in it was proved by his accepting
my terms and leaving Tunnleton
within the time specified. We will drop the

subject now, if you please, Miss Molecombe,
but you may rest assured of one thing, that
Mr. Richard Madingley is not at all what he
passed for in Tunnleton, and that it is extremely
doubtful whether that is even his
name." And with that Maurice rose from
his chair with a hint that perhaps they had
better join the circle.

'' You don't quite like the idea, Bessie, of
my giving up the Church' said Maurice ashe
drove his wife home ; '' but do you know
the three friends I have mentioned it to
have not uttered a syllable of remonstrance.
General Shrewster and Grafton, on the contrary,
clearly think I am right in doing
so ; while as for dear old Frank Chylton,
he has clearly regarded me as a square
peg in a round hole ever since I have been
here."

'' You know best, Maurice, still I confess

to a feeling that it is too late for you to turn
back now."

^^You forget that I am only in the
novitiate, and not as yet actually elected to
the ministry."

Bessie said no more, but she still had her
doubts as to whether her husband would be
right in doing this thing.

Edith Molecombe retired to her own
room as soon as the visitors had left ; but it
was very late that night before she sought
her pillow. She had had her interview with
Maurice Enderby, and for the first time
unbelief in her lover sprang up in her mind.
She had been very much impressed by Maurice's
manner; unlike her father he had
hesitated at speaking at all about Richard
Madingley ; when he did speak it was in the
quiet, resolute tones of a man confident of
his assertions and of his power to prove
them. He had passed over her insult, and

Edith's face blushed even now as she thought
how very rude she had been to Mm in her
own home. Careless of that, he had been
only anxious to warn her that her lover was
not what he represented himself to be, and
to caution her against trusting in his words.
That said he had evidently no wish to touch
further on the subject. Could it be so ? Was
it the old story ? Had she also set up for
herself a false idol and fallen down and
worshipped ? She had refused to believe
her father, she had refused to believe all
stories to Dick Madingley's detriment that
reached her ears ; but Maurice Enderby had
cast doubts into her mind, and for the first
time she felt that it was well her future was
yet in her own hands.

Generals Maddox and Praun were much
exercised in their minds when they met
upon the Promenade the morning after the
banker's little dinner. To have given a

stranger a mutton-chop in Tunnleton unknown
to the community would have been
difficult. Mr. Molecombe's entertainment,
it need scarcely be said, was already talked
about.

^' I really am surprised at Molecombe,''
said General Maddox. '' Think of a respectable
man like him entertaining a dissolute
young man like Enderby, a perfect scandal
to his cloth. Upon my honour, I don't
know what society is coming to."

"• Shameful ! disgraceful ! I call it," replied
General Praun, angrily. " That is
where it is, sir; the plutocracy is playing
the very devil with the country. Mole-combe
is a man of business ; Molecombe is a
mammon worshipper. What does Molecombe
care about a man's private character as long
as he keeps a good swinging balance at his
bank ? What does he care, sir ? answer
me that ; " and General Praun inflicted

sundry severe punches on the flags at his
feet, as if exhorting the very stones to rise
and bear testimony on his behalf. '^ I tell
you what, Maddox," he continued, lowering
his tone, ^^ if Beelzebub's account stood at
over four figures, it's my impression Mole-combe
would ask him to dinner ! "

General Maddox shook his head solemnly,
and said gently, ^' Too true, I am afraid ;
but Molecombe will live to discover that
a gamblers account is liable to considerable
fluctuations ; '' and with this exchange of
amiable sentiments the two veterans separated.


VOL. III.

CHAPTER II.

RIPE rOH TEMPTATION.

Autumn, with all the glories of its dying
tints, has departed, a few last lingering
leaves have fluttered lifeless to the ground ;
hedge and tree stand stark and bare, grimly
defying the chill embrace of winter which
now threatens them. The markets are
glutted with pheasants ; the Christmas turkey
and the Christmas holly are already
shadowed on the horizon, and the Christmas
bills, more surely to be depended upon than

either turkey or sausages, loom imminent
in the near futurity. The Enderbys have
paid their farewell calls, have wished their
friends good-bye, have shaken the dust of
Tunnleton from their feet, and left their
characters behind them. Much debate about
these latter still raging in Tunnleton, for
General Shrewster and Frank Chylton have
both now spoken out and narrated the
singular story of John Madingley's wedding
present. It is known now how the
Enderbys suddenly became possessed of
such command of money ; it is known now
what induced Maurice's strange interest in
the turf ; it is known now what was the
cause of that visit to '' The Spotted Dog,"
which had so scandalized Tunnleton; and
all but the most bigoted and obstinate of
its inhabitants are fain to admit that under
similar circumstances they would have acted

much as Maurice did. A strong reaction
c 2

has set in in favour of the Enderbys,
while Mr. Richard Madingley's reputation
is drowning in the backwater of public
opinion. Mr. Molecombe especially is full
of regret that he did not sooner recognise
the curate's good qualities. The rector
makes himself peculiarly offensive to Maurice's
opponents, by alluding to him as
^^ that excellent and talented young man,
who an obstinate faction literally hounded
out of Tunnleton." General Shrewster cuttingly
remarks that those who had condemned
Maurice Enderby and believed in
Richard Madingley had shown they did
not know a gentleman when they saw him,
and had exhibited much want of tolerance
in their judgment.

General Maddox, finding the storm run
high, and that he had been somewhat mistaken
in his estimate of Maurice's iniquities,
thought it expedient to leave Tunnleton fora

temporary change of air, but the irascible
Praun stood manfully to his guns, and declared
that, if Enderby had not yet been
guilty of the charges brought against him,
he inevitably would be before he had done ;
that the thirst for gambling was implanted
in his veins ; that they might tell this tale of
a wedding present to the marines ; that if
Mr. Enderby had not bet as yet, which he
didn't believe, they would very soon hear of
his transacting business in that respect, that
is if they ever did hear of him again ; that
Mrs. Enderby had exhibited her fiendish
temper when spoken to in her own interest
by two of her best friends ; that those who
lived would see. And then the general faded
out of the club billiard-room with a rumbling
chorus of expletives suggestive of service
seen with that famous army of Flanders.
On the subject of Dick Madingley, the
general prudently refrained from expressing

any opinion. He had his own misgivings
concerning that gentleman, and remembered
regretfully that he had constituted himself
one of his principal supporters in Tunnleton.
The Enderbys meanwhile had established
themselves in comfortable lodgings in the
Hyde Park district, and Maurice was turning
over in his mind what calling he had better
embrace. Thanks to the successes of the
^^ Wandering Nun," he had a very comfortable
balance at his banker's, and this would
give him time to look around. For sometime
the Bar commended itself to his attention,
but the beginning of that profession was
cast among rather stony places, and at the
best some time must elapse before he could
expect to make even a slender income at it.
Many young barristers at the outset of their
career supplemented their business with their
pens. This Maurice had commenced trying
to do at Tunnleton, and still continued in

London, but, though it had been attended
latterly with some little success, it certainly
did not at present promise to swell to a
regular income. And yet for the life of him
beyond the Church and the Bar he could see
no other profession open to him ; medicine
required special training, and for the army
and navy he was too old for admission. It
must not be thought that Maurice was
lounging about town in a happy Micawber
state of mind waiting for something to turnup
; he was strenuously seeking for the
'^ something " himself; but it is not quite so
easy at six-and-twenty to find an opening.
However, after some weeks' reflection, he
attained the first great step. He made up
his mind what it was he wanted, and there
is much in that. It was true his choice fell
on what he believed to })e utterly out of his
reach ; but the apparently unattainable is
sometimes achieved by dogged perseverance.

He would be a soldier if he could ; and he
decided that he could do no better than write
to consult General Shrewster on that point.

General Shrewster's answer sj^^^^ity ^^"
rived ; he would do highest, and was willing
to seize every opportunity ; but he pointed
out that Maurice's age precluded his getting
into the array by any of the regular channels.
•* Your only chance, my dear Enderby, of
joining the profession is by a by-path; they
don't stand much of it in these days ; still,
a commission is got now and again in that
way. You must wait for a war of some
kind, and with our magnificent and extensive
empire the luxury of a small war is a
thing we are rarely without for many
months together. You must then go to the
authorities, and volunteer to go out in any
capacity. You will be handsomely snubbed
no doubt ; never mind that. Your case becomes
my business then, and I shall hope

that I may have influence sufficient to induce
some one employed to take you on his staff*,
in of course an unacknowledged capacity ;
then we must trust to the chapter of accidents.
If you get a chance of distinguishing
yourself, or do good service in the field,
your chief may recommend you for a commission,
and we must endeavour all we know
then to get you appointed to a regiment.
You will be beginning late, but if luck
favours you with plenty of fighting you may
easily make up for a bad start. An old
friend of mine was six years an ensign in an
infantry regiment, but nevertheless was a
Colonel of Dragoons at the end of eleven
years. May fortune be as favourable to you
when we get you started.

^' With kindest regards to Mrs. Enderby,
^' Believe me,

'' Ever yours,

*' James Shrewster. '

This letter gave much encouragement to
Maurice. From that out he began to take
much interest in the proceedings of our
missionaries, who are the cause perhaps of
more of our petty wars than anybody else.
That matter of religion has been productive
of bitter feeling since the world began, and
the desire of the one man to arbitrarily substitute
his own creed for that of his neighbours,
the cause of much heartburning exasperation.
Strengthened by Shrewster's
counsels, Maurice gave up the thought of
seeking other employment. He read the
papers carefully, more especially the Indian
news, but the winter glided away, and England
seemed as far from an embroglio as
ever. It was unfortunate, but an unnatural
tranquillity seemed suddenly to have settled
over the restless area of the British Empire.
Of the numberless races which acknowledge
the sway of England, not one at present

showed signs of irritability, Maurice even
wrote a letter to General Shrewster, complaining
of the stagnation in the trade of
wholesale murder. The veteran could not
help smiling upon receiving his protegees
letter, '^ such a rapid conversion," he murmured,
^'was never seen. Most decidedly, he
was not in his right vocation here." But he
wrote a few lines to Maurice and told him
not to trouble himself, for that England was
very seldom long without a small war on her
hands ; that in the meantime he was in the
right place both for obtaining the earliest
information and for making the earliest
application for employment; and further
promising to come himself to town directly
he saw a chance of forwarding his (Maurice's)
interests.

But as winter merged into early spring in
his search through the papers Maurice found
himself constantly confronted with the betting

on the spring handicaps, and as the
weeks slipped by the betting on the Two
Thousand and Derby became added to the
prize-list. The old infatuation once more
took possession of him, although the Wandering
Nun was engaged in none of these
races, but in watching the returns of last
}• ear's sport Maurice had acquired a general
knowledge of the running of most of the
more prominent horses on the turf, and had
noted the vicissitudes of their various careers
with the keenest interest. Once more he began
speculating in his own mind on their chances,
and picking out what he conceived ought
to be the winners of these races, not that he
had the slightest intention of backing them,
but simply with a view of seeing whether
his judgment would prove to be correct.
Once or twice that solemn warning which
Shrewster had given him crossed his mind,
but there was little cause to feel afraid of

trouble accruing to him in that wise at
present. It was true, racing had begun
again, and besides the Lincolnshire handicap
many another big stake had been fought out
in the Midlands ; but he never went near
these battlefields, and contented himself with
reading what had happened in the daily
papers.

But when a man is ripe for temptation
it is odds that his bad angel speedily offers
him the opportunity to indulge his weakness.
As Maurice was strolling down Oxford
Street one morning he ran across his friend
Bob Grafton.

^^ I didn't know that you were back in
town," said Maurice as they shook hands.

*^ Well, yes," replied Grafton; 'sit was
getting high time to get back to the dear
old wilderness of bricks and mortar. The
hunting is about played out, at all events
my two or three screws are, and the country

Is no good for the next five months. I'll
tell you what we'll do — there can't be any
harm in it now, you know — we'll go down
next week and see the City and Suburban
run. You cannot help taking some interest
in racing as half-proprietor of the crack
three-year-old of the season, and the Epsom
handicap is a pretty race to see."

Now Maurice had vowed to himself that
he would not do this thing ; that though he
could not help watching racing he would
not go near it ; bat then that was while
General Shrewster's word of warning still
rang in his ears. That was some time ago
now ; it was all nonsense ; he could look
on and enjoy the sport without betting,
and, after a moment's hesitation, he yielded
to Grafton's persuasions and agreed to
accompany him to Epsom on the following
Wednesday, and, this settled, the two
friends separated for the present.

Maurice had, of course, seen big races
run before, but for a young man with a
strong taste for horses and hunting racing
had, so far, interested him singularly little ;
it was easily explained : he had, till the
last year, never made any study of it, he
barely knew the names of even the prominent
equine celebrities, he had no
knowledge of the colours of the owners;
consequently a race to him so far had been
like the flashing of a kaleidoscope, and even
when the numbers were hoisted the names
of the placed horses interested him but
little. Now it was different; while at
Tunnleton he had surreptitiously studied
the calendar attentively and learnt the
colours of prominent owners by heart, and
he was looking forward with considerable
excitement to visiting a race-course under
different auspices and accompanied by such
a capable mentor as Grafton.

Bob was true to his tryst at Victoria
Station.

'' Glorious day," he said, as they stepped
into a railway carriage; ^^ bright, clear, and
no chance of rain ; but your top coat is
hardly thick enough, it will be nipping on
the Downs, you may depend upon it," and
Bob glanced down with much satisfaction
at the bulky ulster in which he was himself
encased. ^^ 111 tell you what, too," he
continued : ^^ I've got a rare hint about the
City and Suburban, and we'll see what
we can do with it when we get to the
course."

Two or three strangers now got into the
carriage, and Grafton at once dropped the
subject and never opened his lips about it
again till they found themselves on the
lawn at Epsom, just outside the gate leading
into Tattersall's ring.

^' Now you wait outside for me while I

go in and see what's doing," and then Bob
slipped through the jealously-guarded portals
of that inner enclosure.

Maurice lingered where he had been left,
and, though it was some little time before
Grafton returned, yet he found himself
thoroughly amused; he fell across three or
four old college friends and chatted pleasantly
with them, and each of them at
parting gave him a different tip for the
big race. Maurice's own predilections ran
in favour of a three-year-old called Wolfgang,
a prominent favourite with the
public, and he was wondering whether
Grafton would coincide with him in that
opinion, and getting slightly tired of the
monotonous question ^'Do you want to do
anything, sir ? " or the slightly varied formula
of '^ Want to back one, sir?" when
Grafton touched him lightly on the shoulder.
'^ It's all right, old man, I've got a rare

VOL. III. D

good price. Twenty to one to a pony is
rather a nice bet if it comes o£E. I met
Jack Darby at dinner last night, and he told
me that all their stable are going for old
Drumhead. The public don't fancy him a
bit ; they think he's got too much weight,
but he says the old horse is wonderfully
well just now, has won a rare good trial,
and is sure to be there or thereabouts at the
finish. Now, Maurice, you shall be ina
fiver with me. You must have a bet, you
know ; you can't come down and see the
City and Suburban without having a trifle
on it, and, win or lose, I'm sure old Drumhead
will give you a good show for your
money. And now let's come up to our stalls
and see the race."

CHAPTER III.

EPSOM DOWNS.

They reached their seats in very good time,
and Maurice mentioned to his friend his own
partiality for Wolfgang, who, as he pointed
out, was very well in the handicap.

That's just what it is," replied Grafton,
^^he is rather too well in. He's rather a
headstrong horse, and wants a man to ride
him. A big colt of that kind, to my thinking,
always runs better when not so lightly

weighted, for the simple reason the boys
D 2

can't hold him. However we shall soon see
all about it now ; here they come."

And in threes and fours the competitors
paced slowly past the stand.

^' It is a large field," remarked Grafton,
*^ and a horse wants to be lucky as well as
good to win to-day ; the starter will very
likely have a job to get them off. Twenty-nine
of them altogether. There goes Drumhead,
Maurice, with the black jacket and
crimson sleeves," and Grafton pointed to a
big brown horse that was pacing soberly
up the course on the far side. Another few
minutes and the cavalcade came striding
back once more past the stand in their preliminary
canter.

'^ Here comes Wolfgang," cried Grafton,
'^ the blue and white chevrons in the centre.
Now do you see what I mean r He's a
splendid mover, but look how he is tearing
at his bit, it's as much as the boy can do to

hold him now, and it's a chance whether he
won't lose control over him in the actual
race."

'eyes," laughed Maurice, ^^ in a hunting-field
I should say it was odds that a beggar
like that spread-eagle the pack. But here
comes Drumhead, a very sober, business-like
gentleman that."

^' Yes," said Grafton, drily, ''he is a
veteran of five seasons, and knows better
than to go using up himself and his jockey
in that fashion. But isn't he a rare goer ?
Look at his long easy stride, and then he
has such power. A few pounds more don't
make much difference to him. Ah ! Hampton,
how are you ? " continued Grafton, ashe
nodded to a wiry red haired man, who,
in an ulster and a pot-hat, had just entered
an adjoining stall. " What are they doing
below ? "

'' Golden Dream is strong as brandy.

His party are very confident, more confident
than they have any right to be in such a
big field. Give to one is hard to get against
him now ; but there's lots of 'em backed."

What do you fancy yourself ? '' inquired
Bob.

*^ Well, you see, Mr. Grafton," replied the
bookmaker, '' it's not quite my business to
have fancies, but I think old Drumhead will
run well, and I've kept Flycatcher to run
for the book. His people think he'll give a
good account of himself."

'^ It must be a good betting race."

^^ Very fair, sir," replied Hampton, '' very
fair. It won't hurt any of us much. But I
always like to go for the gloves when I have
a chance, and keep one."

*' They are down at the post now," said
Maurice, '^ and some of them appear very
fractious."

Grafton looked steadily through his glass

at the cluster of silken jackets grouped in
the starter's charge. ^^Yes," he said, sphere
are three or four of them giving trouble.
They're off ! " he cried, and the shout was
re-echoed from many a throat, only to be
followed by a cry of " No, no ! false start ! "
while some half-dozen horses were seen
streaming to the top of the hill.

^' That's bad for Wolfgang," continued
Grafton, ^^it is as I thought, he's got away
with the boy, like two or three more."

Wolfgang, indeed, proved more insubordinate
than his companions, and reached the
top of the hill before his jockey succeeded
in pulling him up. It would be tedious to
dwell upon the numerous false starts that
took place — as is not uncommonly the case
when there is a large number of competitors,
and the field comprises three or four
fractious youngsters. The bad manners of
these sinners are infectious and make even

elderly and well-disposed horses forget themselves.
Suffice it to say that the backers of
Wolfgang and Golden Dream passed a very
bad three-quarters-of-an-hour. False start
succeeded false start, and upon pretty nearly
every occasion Wolfgang and Golden Dream
were nearly at the top of the hill before
they could be stopped. Latterly Flycatcher,
who had been very well behaved during the
first part of the proceedings, began to exhibit
signs of temper, and even Drumhead
and his experienced pilot began to manifest
anxiety to be off. At last the welcome roar
of ^^ They're off!" was followed by no
counter-cry of ^' False start ! " and, with a
sense of relief, the crowd saw the cluster of
silken jackets stream up the hill and come
sweeping through the furzes. If the backers
of the two principal offenders had looked
askance at the erratic proceedings of their
favourites during the last forty minutes the

supporters of Golden Dream had good right
to be disgusted with that animal now.
After being pretty well first away in everyone
of the previous '^ no goes '' he had
distinguished himself by getting off very
badly when the flag fell in earnest.
Wolfgang, on the contrary, proved eager to
begin till the last, and, coming through the
furzes, assumed the command ; he must
have been a good colt, in rare condition,
for, notwithstanding all his breaks away,
and that he had as good as taken a race
out of himself before starting, he led his
field a cracker till half-way down the hill,
leading to Tattenham Corner, when Flycatcher
ran up to him, and, getting the
inside berth round the famous turn, deprived
him of the lead. By this time the scattering
of the field was amazing ; such tailing had
rarely been witnessed, and, out of the
twenty-nine who left the starter's hands

not two minutes before, there were certainly
little more than half-a-dozen left in the race.
At the road Flycatcher was still leading,
with Wolfgang lying second. Then came
three or four all in a cluster, and barely a
couple of lengths behind ; while stealing upon
the rails, inch by inch, was old Drumhead,
whose jockey, watching the leaders
keenly as a hawk, already felt victory
within his grasp. At the distance Wolfgang
was done with, and Flycatcher came
on with a lead of two lengths. Half-way
up, there were only three left, and a cry
of ^' Come on. Flycatcher," burst from the
excited throats of his immediate partisans.
At the '' Bell " one of the three competitors
compounded, while Drumhead rapidly closed
with his opponent. Flycatcher's jockey
cast an anxious look right and left, and
became aware that on his near side the
most dangerous horseman that ever steered

thoroughbred over Epsom Downs was at
his quarters. He had ridden steadily and
with judgment up to this, now he lost his
nerve, and, anxious to get home, sat down
opposite the stand and commenced riding
his horse in earnest. His grim opponent
smiled as he found, despite his jockey's
efforts. Flycatcher could not improve the
half-length he held. Then he too began,
and driving the old horse all he knew,
landed him a clever winner by a good neck.

^"'A fine shave, Hampton, either way,"
cried Grafton; ^'and from here I can't be
very sure, but I fancy Drumhead got up
in time."

'' Not a doubt about it, sir," replied the
bookmaker; ^^if I wasn't sure myself the
silence down below would tell me. Flycatcher
would have been a clean haul for
most of them, but few, I fancy, missed laying
Drumhead any more than I did."

^' Now Maurice, we can go down and
look after some lunch comfortably. I've
collared four, and you are one hundred in,
old boy."

Maurice said nothing, but he could not
help) reflecting that his determination not
to bet had been promptly dissipated. It
would be absurd to suppose that he felt
penitent or uncomfortable about it, for
winning a hundred pounds on a bright
breezy April afternoon never oppressed anybody
within my recollection. He had not
meant to do it, and, great as his excitement
had been over the race, he had honestly
never thought of the bet he had upon it.
His interest had been absorbed, first in
the bold front shown by his own selection,
Wolfgang, for so great a part of the distance,
then in the sudden advent of Flycatcher,
the bookmaker's tip, and lastly, in
the triumph of his friend Bob Grafton's

favourite. Drumhead. It was some time
before they could make their way downstairs,
for the crowd were, like themselves,
hunger-stricken, and the staircases of the
grand stand are by no means broad and
stately. Mr. Hampton was jammed up
with them on the way down, and, slightly
to Maurice's surprise, Grafton insisted on
his coming to luncheon with them. The
beauty of the hunting-field, quoth Mr. Punch,
is that it enables all classes to mix, but for
purposes of amalgamation the hunting-field in
that matter cannot be compared with the
race-course. At length they made their
way into the chief refreshment saloon,
where Grafton at once ordered everything,
including a couple of bottles of champagne.
Everything, as he explained, simply meant
such food as the hurried waiters could lay
their hands upon ; while, as for the liquor
*ewe can only hope it may be drinkable."

Mr. Hampton ate with all the equanimity
and rapidity characteristic of his class. They
are perfectly used to the losing and winning
of money, and as convinced as the proprietors
of Monte Carlo that they must win
in the long-run, but of time for revelry they
are aware they have little during business
hours. Mr. Hampton was not long finishing
his lunch and tumbler of champagne,
and then announced that he must be once
more '^ up and doing." Grafton and Maurice
lingered some little time longer.

^' I don't care much about the minor
races here," said Bob. *^ We've seen the
big event, and, after we've had a stroll
through the paddock, I'm good to get back
to town again as soon as you like. Sure to
see a lot of fellows there, you know, who
can tell us all about the race, and sure too
to encounter several others who always said

old Drumhead would win, but who for
varied reasons never backed him."

Maurice returned to town in excellent
spirits and, having thoroughly enjoyed his
day I'm afraid felt but small compunctions
concerning that profitable wager that he had
allowed himself to be led into. He had no
intention of taking to betting, but this was
just an odd instance that wouldn't occur
again, and as for enjoying a day's racing
occasionally it was quite possible to do that
without gambling ; and, now he had determined
to lay aside his sacred calling, there
would be no shocking of people's prejudices
on that account. Prom this out he paid as
much attention to turf news as if he had
been a declared votary of the sport ; and as
the Epsom carnival drew near Maurice got
deeply interested in the probable results.
He had not been on a race-course since the
triumph of Drumhead, but he had made up

his mind to see the Derby, and more especially
the Oaks, run for. The Wandering
Nun had made a successful debut at
Newmarket, and carried off the Thousand
Guineas in a canter, and racing men were
pretty nearly unanimously of opinion that
the ladies' race at Epsom was at her mercy
provided she kept well.

The last week in May saw Maurice accompanied
by his friend Grafton once again
on the Epsom lawn. He had been down on
the Derby day and had been persuaded by
Bob to have ten pounds on the winner of
that race. Between that and his half of the
stakes for the Thousand Guineas his balance
at his banker's waxed fat, and Maurice, ever
sanguine, looked upon the success of the
Wandering Nun this afternoon as a foregone
conclusion. Grafton had left him to see
what was doing in the inner ring, which
Maurice, not being a member of Tattersall's,

was, of course, unable to enter. Suddenly
his attention was arrested by a voice he
thought he recognised vociferating, " The
'Wandering Nun,' I'll lay against, here's four
to one the ' Wandering Nun.' " Looking in
the direction from which the voice proceeded
he at once recognised Hampton just the
other side the railings which divided the
Tattersall enclosure from the Lawn. It
flashed through Maurice's mind that this
was a chance. The last quotation he had
heard against the favourite for the Oaks had
been five to two. Leaning over the rails he
touched the bookmaker with his umbrella
and said, ^' I'll take fours, Mr. Hampton."

'every well, sir. What shall it be in?
Will you have it in ponies ? "

'' No," exclaimed Maurice, '^ 1 want four
hundred to a hundred ; will you lay it ? "

"Certainly," replied the bookmaker.
'' Let's see— Mr. Envy, isn't it ? "

VOL. III. E

^^No, that's not quite right," replied
Maurice — '^ Tenderly, You met me with
Mr. Grrafton at the Spring Meeting. You
may remember."

'' Certainly," replied the bookmaker, who,
like most of his class, had a good memory
for faces, and then, having made a rapid
note of the transaction, he turned round
and once more vociferated his war-cry.

Some little time after Grafton re-joined
him, and Maurice at once informed him of
what he had done.

backed it for a hundred?" said Grrafton.
^^ The deuce you have. Surely, your share
of the stakes should be good enough for you,
and I'll tell you what : I'm very much afraid
it isn't coming off this time. I've not been
able to catch anybody who can tell me anything
about it; but there's a screw loose
about the ' Wandering Nun.' Those fellows
in there lay as if they knew something,

and I saw one or two good judges very busy-covering
their money. It's not a very
healthy sign when the odds against a
favourite expand just before the race."

As they made their way to the coign of
vantage, from which they meant to view the
race, two men who were ascending the stairs
just before them enlightened their minds on
the subject. *^ No, the * Wandering Nun'
won't win ; she is not even first favourite
just now. All the better for us. With her
out of the way Belladonna ought to be about
good enough'*

^^ Have you heard what's the matter with
the ' Nun ' ? "

'^ Gone slightly amiss at the eleventh

hour, I fancy, as these fillies will sometimes

out of sheer perversity. Some of them seem

to have got a hint of it in the enclosure, for

Hampton, Weston, and two or three more of
E 2

the most deadly pencilled out, have never
ceased betting against her all the morning."

^' Pleasant news," said Maurice, with a
smile, '' however, I can afford to forgive her
if any one can."

The race for the Oaks was devoid of all
interest as far as Maurice's champion was
concerned ; from the fall of the flag the
^' Wandering Nun " either could not or
would not go near her horses. She never
looked dangerous from first to last, and
finished an indifferent sixth in a field of ten
runners. Belladonna and Tamarinds fought
out a rattling race, which terminated in
favour of the latter by half a length.

'^ She is not herself, and showed temper
to boot, but that running is too bad to be
true, and the ' Wandering Nun ' will win
you a hat-full of money yet, old fellow, before
she has done," remarked Grafton.

CHAPTER IV.

EDITH GETS OVER IT.

All great gatherings of the people are remarkable
for one thing, to wit, those whom
you wish to see you never meet, whilst those
whom you would rather did not see you
there, do. Your puritanical uncle, from whom
you had expectations, who regards racing as
the acme of iniquity, is sure to hear that you
graced the Derby with your presence. Your
spinster aunt, who has strong and intolerant
feelings about the scarlet lady of Babylon, is

certain to be informed of your attendance at
any High Church temple of worship. You
cannot as a rule join in any celebration
which your dear relatives consider unfitting
without its speedily coming to their ears.
Our sins have a greater tendency to make
themselves heard of than our good deeds.
Maurice was most assuredly not thinking of
Tunnleton during the Epsom week, but
there were Tunnleton men there who saw
him, and a large section of Tunnleton is
even now bewailing his backsliding and
misfortunes.

It is all very well, said Tunnleton, for
General Shrewster and one or two more to
express their belief in Mr. Enderby's innocence
of the accusations laid against
him, but '^ what was he doing at Epsom ?
Answer me that," demanded General Praun,
fiercely; ^' I am told too that he has lost a
very large sum of money."

As Maurice was now currently known to
be the nephew of the owner of the 'wandering
Nun," the defeat of that animal would
naturally give rise to some such rumour in
the little town, and it was upon that report
that the latter part of General Praun's statement
was founded. As for Maurice he
troubled himself little about Tunnleton's
opinion. He had received his first rebuff on
a race course. He had made so sure of the
Wandering Nun's victory that he felt very
much as if he had lost a large sum of
money, but General Shrewster had gauged
him pretty accurately, he was just the man
of which bold and daring betters are made.
He was not in the least depressed at his
defeat, but simply keen and sanguine to
recover his losses. His successes had been
so unbroken, for every victory of Uncle
John's flying filly had been practically a
success for him, that he must have been a

very craven to have been cast down by the
first reverse. This was a quiet week, but
next came Ascot, and there Maurice had
made up his mind to plunge into the thick
of the fray. Even Bessie, though very far
from intending it, confirmed him in his resolution.
He had mentioned neither his
little bet on the Spring Handicap nor his
big one on the Oaks, but, like himself, in
spite of all her prudent resolutions, she had
gradually come to look on Uncle John's
racing successes as a welcome contribution
to their income, and this last would have
been such a grand prize. Such a sum as two
thousand pounds odd, which she had come
to regard as sure to fall into their hands, was
bitter disappointment to be bereft of, and she
more than once laughingly expressed such
disappointment to her husband.

Never mind," he rejoined, ^' our good
fairy has one or two engagements at Ascot,

and we must hope that next week will find
her restored to health. The sporting* papers
all say it was merely a temporary ailment."

'^ You won't go down Maurice, will
you ? " she inquired, a little anxiously.

^' Oh, yes I shall," he replied. '^ It's no
distance, and I thoroughly enjoy the sport."

'' I am afraid Tunnleton will be more convinced
than ever that you bei, if they hear
of you at all these race-courses," said Bessie,
with a smile.

'' And with some justice at last," thought
Maurice. '^ Nonsense I " he said. '^ What's
Tunnleton to me, or me to Tunnleton? Bar
the Chyltons and Shrewster, I think we have
left no friends behind us there."

^' Well, I must say I liked the Molecombes,
they were very civil to us at the last, and
yere anxious to make amends for having
lent too credulous an ear to that precious
impostor Richard Madingley. By the way

I had a letter from Edith this morning, and,
what is more, it contains a mysterious
message to you. She desires her kindest
regards, hopes you will forgive her being so
rude to you, and bids me say that she bears
what you told her constantly in mind; and
now, Maurice," cried Bessie quickly, ^' what
did you tell her ? "

'^ A mere nothing; only gave her my
opinion regarding Richard Madingley, which
she naturally refused to believe true. I am
very glad to see that she at all events thinks
that I may be right after all."

'^ She talks of coming up to town in the
course of next week, when she hopes to see
us."

There was one person who shook his
head, though not so noisily as General
Praun, yet much more seriously, over
Maurice's proceedings. It so happened that
General Shrewster had heard of Maurice's

presence at the Spring Meeting, and he
feared that his prediction was about to be
realized.

It will be the ruin of him, that life in
London," he muttered, ^'with any amount of
racing going on all round him. He will
begin attending all these meetings, and as
for a man of his temperament not betting it
is preposterous to think of. Ah ! if there
was only a chance of getting him into the
service in some way. To pack him off to
India, or rattle him out on service, would bethe
making of him just now, but I am afraid
at his age there is no opening at present;
odd, too, that we are not in a petty quarrel
with somebody."

However, for a wonder, the country was
not engaged in protecting its frontiers,
punishing its feudatories, or annexing its
neighbours, and soldiers had nothing for it
but to regret the stagnation of their trade.

Mrs. Enderby was very pleased in the
course of the week at receiving a visit from
Edith Molecombe. That young lady was
unfeignedly glad to find her hostess at
home, and seemed still more pleased at discovering
that Maurice was likely to be in
later in the afternoon. She wanted very
much to make friends with Mr. Enderby,
who, she had taken it into her head, had a
shrewd suspicion of her contemplated elopement,
though she hardly anticipated the
chance of saying much to him. As it turned
out, when he did make his appearance, he
was accompanied by his friend Mr. Grafton,
and the conversation became, of course,
general.

Grafton had never as yet set eyes upon
Edith Molecombe, and, knowing her history
as he did, looked upon her with no little
curiosity. She was looking her best ; the
worry of her disappointment had imparted a

refinement to her features wlilcli they had
hitherto lacked. She was a nice-looking
girl, of medium height, and with a neat
figure, which showed off her dainty muslin
draperies to the utmost advantage ; and, in
spite of Miss Torkesly's remark that it was
high time she got married, although past
her majority, she was still a long way off
being an irreclaimable spinster.

"• Well worth interfering about," thought
Grafton ;-'^ it would have been a sin that a
nice ladylike girl like that should have
fallen into the hands of an unscrupulous
blacken."

In spite of his passion for sport of all description,
Grafton was a man fond of ladies'
society. He could drop all the shibboleth of
the race course in their presence, and, rarer
faculty still, could refrain from chanting his
prowess amid the turnips or in the hunting-field
to their weary ears. He chatted away

to his hostess and Edith Molecombe about
all the gossip of the day, and what was doing
in town, in the liveliest fashion. Fancy-fairs,
exhibitions, Royal patronages, Bob
Grafton had attended them all and had a
piquant anecdote to tell about many of them.
He was a popular man, and sure of being
heartily received at many a London tea-table
could he only be entrapped thither.
It was not till the last moment that Grafton
alluded to the forth-coming Ascot, and then
it was briefly to arrange with Maurice where
they should meet, but that allusion produced
results which Bob never dreamed of.

^^ How I should like to see Ascot ! '^ exclaimed
Miss Molecombe, ^' but the Millions,
with whom I am staying, say they cannot
find any one to go halves in a box,
and Mr. Millison declares that he cannot
afford to take a whole one's

^'And I have never seen Ascot," cried
Bessie, ^' and really," she continued, with a
slight toss of her head, ^^ as I am never likely
to be part proprietor of another race-horse, I
ought to be allowed to see the ^ Wandering
Nun' for once. Can't you manage it,
Maurice ? "

'' Of course he can, and must," replied
Grafton, '' the idea of a lady who owns tie
best three-year-old of the year not going
down to see her mare run ! How can you
expect her to win, Mrs. Enderby, if you
don't personally smile on her exertions ? ''

Maurice was rather in a dilemma ; he did not
want to take his wife down to Ascot, but,
considering that all the money which had
come to them by means of the ^^ Wandering
Nun " was virtually hers, it did seem rather
ungracious to refuse her request, so after
some little hesitation he yielded, and said

that if a box could be procured so late in the
day he should be very glad to share one
with Mr. Millison.

'^ Hold him to that, Mrs. Enderby, and
never fear but what I'll find the box. It's
of course a little late in the day, but there
are always a few come in at the last moment
belonging for the most part to regular
tenants whom something suddenly prevents
from attending," and with this Mr. Grafton
made his adieux and departed.

*^ Do you think we shall get the box ? "
exclaimed Miss Molecombe, with eyes
sparkling at the prospect of witnessing the,
as yet, unknown glories of Ascot.

'' 1 can only say the aJBtair could not be
in better hands. Grafton knows all sorts
of people, and if the thing is to be managed
he is the man to do it."

'' Yes, Edith," said Mrs. Enderby, who

believed immensely in her husband's friend;
** I don't think we shall be disappointed, so
you may look out your best frocks."

*sit will be delightful. I must run home
now and tell Mr. Millison the good news ;
and Mr. Enderby," she continued, in a low
voice, *^ I want to apologise for being so
rude to you that night ; from several things
I have learnt lately I am afraid you have
told me the truth. I don't want to say
anything more on the subject, but you maybe
sure I shall not forget your warning.
Good-bye."

'^ I think she has pretty well got over
it'' said Maurice when he had returned
from seeing his visitor out.

'' Yes ; there is one tiling that, once
convinced of it, would help a proud girl
like Edith Molecombe much in getting over
a disappointment; her pride would be so

VOL. III. F

wounded at the thought of there being good
reason to doubt her lover being a gentleman."


'^ Ah ! " said Maurice, '' I believe distraction
is always recommended for these
cases," — he was still feeling a little annoyed
at the idea of being saddled with ladies at
Ascot — '' I suppose Edith is just in the
state described in the old song :

From place to place they hurry me to banish my regret,
And when they win a smile from me they fancy I forget; "

and, as far as my experience goes, they are
pretty well justified in doing so. I don't
suppose, if it is a fine day and her dress
fits, that we shall be wrong in supposing
that Edith has forgotten."

'you needn't sneer in that way, Maurice;
it would be rather odd if she hadn't. Don't
you know that from the day Richard

Madingley left Tunnleton she has never
even heard of him ? That is about three-quarters
of a year ago ; I think most girls
would have ceased to think about such a
lover as hers was in that time."

It would be very curious if it should be
sOj but do you know, Bessie, it's just possible
that Edith might see her old lover at Ascot.
I have never seen him myself during my
few days' racing experience, but Grafton
tells me that he has caught sight of him
once or twice, and that whatever he might
have been when he was at Tunnleton he
has little doubt now that he is enrolled in
the ranks of the ring."

^'We will hope she won't," replied Bessie;
'^ surely we shall not be mixed up with
those sort of people ? "

'^No, but I saw at Epsom that some of

the smaller bookmakers roamed about in
f2

pursuit of their calling in front of the stand,
and I daresay they do the same at Ascot ;
however, it is not very likely to happen,
and, let Grafton only get us the box, no
doubt we shall have a good time."

CHAPTER V.

A BLACK ASCOT.

Never was there greater promise of Queen's
weather than the Ascot week held out for
the royal meeting. No party on the Waterloo
platform was in higher spirits than the
Millisons and Enderbys. Old Millison was
the head of a well-established broker's house
on the Stock Exchange, and dearly loved a
bit of racing now and then. A judicious
douceur to the guard enabled them to obtain
a compartment to themselves, and, furnished

with race-cards, the whole party were
speedily engaged in speculation as to what
would win the Queen's Vase. Even the
ladies caught the enthusiasm, desired to be
instructed, and expressed their intention of
having a bet upon that race. And Grafton
soon found himself invested with the office
of the ladies' commissioner, while they themselves
plunged into an animated discussion
as to what extent their investments were
to be carried. Miss Molecombe solemnly
handed a five-pound note over to Grafton,
which he was adjured to lay out to the best
advantage. Mr. Millison deposited a similar
stake on behalf of his wife, and then Maurice
handed over a like sum on the part of Bessie.
Mrs. Enderby was in a state of great excitement
as to whether the ^^ Wandering Nun "
would run or not for the Queen's Vase. The
mare was reported amongst the arrivals at
Ascot, and was also coloured on the card.

But Grafton rather inclined to the belief
that she would not start for that race.

^' You see, Mrs. Enderby, the ' Wandering
Nun ' has two or three valuable engagements
this week, and as she wasn't quite herself
ten days ago it is probable they will keep
her for something that is run over a less
severe course than the Queen's Vase."

Now it had been arranged that the ladies
should run down for the first day of the
meeting and the Cup day. And now arose
another problem for Grafton to solve. Mrs.
Enderby was naturally excessively anxious
to see this famous mare, of which she was
half owner, run. Miss Molecombe was
equally decided that above all things any
race in which the 'wandering Nun" figured
must be witnessed. But here came a little
divergence of view ; whereas Bessie and Mrs.
Millison had only suggested a change of day
if necessary, Edith thought that they had

better adhere to their original arrangement,
and come down an extra day if circumstances
required it. Racing might amuse
Miss Molecombe, or it might not, but she
had at all events made up her mind to
thoroughly satisfy herself on this point.

At last Ascot station is reached, and, descending
from their carriage, the party followed
the throng, making their way up the
narrow lane leading to the back of the stand.
No sooner are the ladies comfortably installed
in their box than Maurice and Grafton
sally forth across the lawn towards the
betting-ring to ascertain what is doing,
leaving Mr. Millison to do cicerone and
point out the humour « of the course to the
two neophytes. Their box was on the second
tier, and looking down upon the crowd that
thronged the lawn and race-course afforded
ample amusement to Mrs. Enderby and
Edith. With their glasses they could see

clearly the motley crowd on the far side
drags covered with men whose appearance
unmistakeable stamped them as wont to
mingle in the clubs of St. James's and the
drawing-rooms of Belgravia. Other drags
there were in which the ladies looked quite
as smartly dressed, but exhibited much want
of that repose of manner which characterised
their neighbours. The men too in these
latter were remarkable for a brilliancy of
attire, which, if not quite to be picked to
pieces, gave a vague idea of not being exactly
correct as a whole. There were the
sable sons of minstrelsy, the tumblers, the
gipsies, girls with the last nmsic-hall songs,
strong men, fire-eaters, card-sellers, and all
the miscellaneous crowd that mingle in the
throng of a big race-meeting. Although
watching them from afar, Edith through
her glasses could see quite well enough to
be amused at the motley gathering. At

length a line of police marched steadily
down the centre of the course, other mounted
policemen accompanying them, and in an
incredibly short space of time the broad
green ribbon is cleared of the loungers, who
but a few minutes since had crowded it.
Another minute, and a ringing cheer some
distance down the course announces that the
royal cortege is close at hand, and immediately
afterwards some half-dozen open
carriages, with the Prince and Princess of
Wales in the leading one, passed leisurely
up the centre of the course, and deposited
their contents at the door of the Royal
Stand.

The sharp note of the saddling-bell is
now heard, and a minute or two later
the numbers go up for the Trial Stakes.
There are are ^yq runners, and, as is usually
the case in this race, one of them is at
once made a pretty hot favourite.

Grafton and Maurice hurry in at the last
moment, and Bob informs the ladies that
he has taken two to one against Armature,
for what he calls the Ladies' Betting
Association, limited. That he has backed
it himself, and fancies it should win. But
the Trial Stakes, which inaugurates the meeting,
is generally an uncertain race and wont
to result in discomfiture to the backers to
start with. It follows its charter this afternoon,
and our party see their horse beaten
in a canter by a little-fancied outsider,
about whom very long odds had been
offered a few moments before ; however,
nobody rocks much of the first reverse of a
big meeting ; there is plenty of time for us
to recover from such petty disaster ; and
Stratton, as he laughed gaily and said,
'' Better lack next tune," little dreamed of
the scale upon which Maurice had commenced
operations. Enderby had made up

his mind to bet in earnest for once, and
had unluckily conceived a hazy notion of a
system about backing* horses. He did not
know it, but the idea was as old as the
hills, and had brought many a gallant
backer to grief in his day. It was simply
increasing your stakes after every rebuff,
on the principle that your turn must come,
and that when it does you will have recovered
all your losses and a good deal
besides. Maurice had lost fifty pounds
upon this race, and had already determined
to have a hundred on the next.

^^Is my horse going to start, Mr. Grafton?"
exclaimed Mrs. Enderby. ^' AYhat
have you heard about her in the ring ? "

*^No, you won't see her to-day; she is
not to go for the Vase, but I hear she is to
run on Thursday for the rich St. James's
Palace Stakes. Not quite perhaps all the
honour and glory of winning the Vase, buta

much richer prize, and if the ' Wandering
Nun ' is at all herself she should win without
difficulty''

The Gold Vase, which immediately succeeded,
terminated, as the prelude to
luncheon always ought to do, in the triumph
of the favourite, and a monetary success to
the little party all round, and they adjourned
to their cold lamb, lobster salad, and champagne,
which Millison's servants had laid
daintily out on the lawn at the back of the
stand, in the highest of spirits. The stockbroker
was a lover of the flesh-pots, and
had a capital notion of doing things properly,
and two bulky hampers in charge of
his butler and footman had accompanied
them from town. Maurice, in particular,
was in high feather ; he had put a hundred
on the winner and was consequently more
enamoured of his theory than ever. They
were very merry over the lunch, and, when

they trooped back to the box to once more
enjoy the sport, Miss Molecombe vowed that
racing was the most exciting amusement in
which she had ever embarked, and that a
proprietress of race-horses like Mrs. En derby
was a woman wondrously favoured of fortune.

'' You will have to lay out some of your
winnings," exclaimed Edith, "' in purchasing
two or three more racers. It must be
so nice to have a few of one's own."

No, no, Mrs. Enderby," laughed Grafton,
'^ we must make a great deal more
money than we've done so far before we start
our stud. You are to appoint me your master
of the horse, remember, and I can't authorise
our beginning as yet''

It would be tedious to follow our friends
through all the vicissitudes of fortune. Interesting
as the fierce battle between backer
and bookmaker is to those engaged, it is
somewhat wearisome to read about. Suffice

it to say, that wagering under the sage
advice of Bob Grafton, when after the last
race but one they made their way back to
the train, they were all winners with one
exception. Flushed with success, Maurice
had trusted to his own judgment instead
of relying upon his mentor, and unfortunately
had done so for a considerable sum.
He alone had lost money on the day ; the
others, although far from requiring sacks
to carry home their winnings, were still
victors on the afternoon ; and Edith Mole-combe,
at all events, was convinced that
racing was the sport of kings, as, indeed,
it may well be termed so far as English
monarchs are concerned.

Many a black Ascot has opened as seductively
as this one, and looked like a very
garden of Bendemeer to the fashionable
London throng, who have already found their
resources severely taxed to keep pace with

the constantly recurring exigencies of the
season. The veterans put but little faith in
these gay openings, and the fielders blench
not a whit because the first day goes against
them. The former have seen the storm-clouds
gather heavily round the Royal Hunt
Cup — that prettiest of gambling races — and
the decision of the Rockingham cause Ascot
to close, metaphorically speaking, in a gloom
dark as Erebus. It had been settled that
the ladies were not to go down on the off-day,
but the men all met again at Waterloo,
Maurice keener than ever for the fray, and
with a firm conviction, shared indeed by the
other two, that it was a card easy to pick
winners from. But disaster came with the
opening race, when the favourite, upon
whom two 5 and in some instances even three,
to one were laid, was most ignominiously
beaten. The second race was attended with
a similar result, and then came the pause

which usually precedes the Royal Hunt Cup.
The competitors were numerous, and the
betting remarkably heavy ; but the powerful
stable that owned Duke Humphrey were
apparently not to be stayed by any efforts
of the bookmakers, and continued to back
their horse. Two of the patricians connected
with that stable were as shrewd judges and
as bold speculators as any men on the turf,
and sheer weight of metal kept their horse
at the head of the poll, although many of
the others were also backed heavily. Acting
under the advice of Grrafton, Maurice had
thrown in his lot with Duke Humphrey.

He was standing against the rails of the
lawn, scanning the competitors as they cantered
past, when a voice he thought he
knew struck upon his ear.

'* Do as you like," said the speaker, '^ but
I tell you it is so. I know all that ; I've
heard it all before. Lord Linton and Sir

VOL. III. G

Ralph don't throw their money away, I
grant you. They make mistakes at times,
and they're making one here. There's a
tout I employ on those Downs, and he's
about the best of his calling in England.
They've tried Duke Humphrey all right
enough, but their training-ground is not
the new mile at Ascot, and they have
not yet quite opened their eyes to the fact
that their horse is a rogue''

Maurice had recognised the speaker by
this, and looked round to make sure that he
was right in his conjecture. Richard Ma-dingle
was turned slightly away from him,
but the satchel hung from his shoulder left
no doubt about the part he played on the
racecourse.

^^ And you think, then," said Dick's companion,
a somewhat over dressed young
man, " that Jerry can beat the Duke ? "
*^ No, not if the Duke would try ; but he

won't like the hill, and he won't like the
struggle ; and so I recommend you, if you
want to get out of your scrape, to back
Jerry this time. You can get a good price,
at least you could just now. I've made my
book for him, and backed him besides."

Maurice wondered if there could be anything
in what Madingley said ; he had looked
with rather contempt upon that gentleman's
judgment at Tunnleton, and considered that
he himself was a far better judge, which, had
he analysed it, was simply based upon the
fact that he happened to know more about
the 'wandering Nun" than Madingley. No,
he decided if he was to let his own opinion
be swayed by every idle rumour he heard,
he might back half the horses in the race.
^' Jerry," he muttered, contemptuously, and
here he turned round and asked one of the
outside book-makers what that horse's price

was.

a 2

'' I've done on the race, sir" replied the
man civilly, '^ but I laid one hundred to six
about that one."

Maurice walked quietly back to his box
to see the race, where he found his two
friends duly installed, and with their glasses
in their hands. There was the usual slight
delay at the post, and then the bell announced
that the field for the Hunt Cup was away.

'^ We can't see 'em till they top the hill,"
cried Grafton. ^' Keep your glasses on its
crest, Maurice. All right so far," he exclaimed,
as the charging squadron, glittering
like a tulip bed in the summer sun flashed
in sight, ^' Duke Humphrey is lying fourth."
And now the squandering began. A little
more and there were only six in it, opposite
the stand there were but three. Duke Humphrey
was leading, but sticking to his quarters
like a bur on the hand were a pair of
antagonists who promised to give trouble.

Another stride or two and the one on the
near side has shot his bolt, and gives way
beaten, but the one on the off closes with
him inch by inch, and no sooner does the
Duke find this doughty opponent at his
girths than he lays back his ears, and swerving
across the course enables Jerry to win
by a good half-length. From the box they
cannot be sure of the result, but when the
numbers go up Maurice sees that Dick
Madingley has been at all events right this
time. The ill-luck of the backers continues
through the afternoon, favourite after
favourite goes down, and on the homeward
journey Maurice feels a little serious when
he reflects upon his losses.

CHAPTER VI.

THE ST. JAMEs' PALACE STAKES.

Maurice had begun the week with a very
handsome balance at his banker's, derived
entirely from the victories of Uncle John's
flying filly, but he might well look serious
when he thought of the inroads he had made
upon that balance during the last two days.
The latent demon of gambling had been
aroused in him, and he had already discovered
that it requires a man of iron will to
follow a system on the turf, and a little more

knowledge of that amusement will show him
that a system is fallible on a racecourse as it
is at the gaming-table. It is certainly harder
to carry out, for in the latter case you will
be allowed to pursue your theory untroubled
by advice, whilst in the former you are
generally advised of nearly as many winners
as there are runners in the stake about to
be contended for. Neither his wife nor
Grafton had the slightest idea of the magnitude
of his speculations.

Mr. Hampton the bookmaker was a prominent
member of Tattersall's, and at Ascot
had a particular coign of vantage, which
custom seemed to have made his own. At
the corner of the inner ring, adjacent to the
Grand Stand, and just beneath the lower
gallery of the Iron stand, was a square pillar
about five feet high ; from the top of this
Mr. Hampton was wont to offer to give or
take the odds to all comers. It was an

excellent position for his purpose ; everybody
could find him, and he was both
within reach of those in Tattersall's enclosure
and also of those without the pale.
His secretary stood, book in hand, at the
foot of the pillar, taking note of his transactions
as quickly as they were made, and
such was the swarm of customers at the foot
of the pillar, that it was all the secretary
could do to write down his employer's
wagers.

Long habit had made the pair thoroughly
expert at their business, and it was rarely
that Hampton's memory faltered as to what
sum he had laid against any particular horse.
It was with this man that Maurice had
carried on his speculations. He could not
go into the inner ring, and in the outer lawn
had not the knowledge which would enable
him to distinguish good men and true from
the pirates who mingled with them.

Hampton knew Mr. Enderby to be a
friend of Grafton, and that had been introduction
enough for him ; besides he had
given the bookmaker a hundred-pound note
through the medium of Grafton, when the
'^ Wandering Nun " was beaten for the Oaks,
and therefore Hampton had been only too
glad to welcome him as a new client.

There had never been such a glorious
Ascot week known, said the pleasure-loving
dames and demoiselles who, robed in their
freshest and prettiest, thronged the Waterloo
platform on the day of the Gold Cup.

^' There had never been such a deuce of a
time seen," said their male belongings, who
had passed the last eight-and-forty hours in
weary battle with the bookmakers. Men
studied the card gravely, and pronounced it
promising.

^' A winning card, Mrs. Enderby," said

Grafton gaily, ^* better than the first day's
even, and we did pretty well then."

'^ And it need to be," replied old Millison,
^^ for if they don't have a change for the
better the gentlemen will be all clean
broke."

^^ We are going to see your colours out today,
Mrs. Enderby, and I think we must all
have a plunge on the ^ Wandering Nun.' She
ought to win the St. James's Palace Stakes,
if well, and they would hardly have sent her
to Ascot unless she was supposed to have a
race in her."

eyes, Mrs. Enderby," exclaimed Edith,
^' when we see your pretty blue and white
sleeves go by victorious our throats must
make the welkin ring. Isn't that the proper
way to put it, Mr. Grafton ? — and oh 1 by
the way, what is the welkin ? "

^'That's known only to the poets," replied

Grafton, '^ and the craft keep that mystery
safely to themselves."

They arrived at Ascot in time to see the
royal cortege sweep up the course in state ;
the Master of the Buckhounds, attended by
his huntsman and whips, riding at the head
of the procession. There was much cheering
from all parts of the course, and much
waving of pocket handkerchiefs from the
grand stand, as the prince and princess
bowed their acknowledgments. Royalty
safely disposed of, racing people settled
down to the regular business of the day.

It would have been well for Maurice
Enderby if he could have overheard a conversation
which took place on the corner of
the lawn next the racecourse about this very
time. Mr. Pick and Richard Madingley
had been holding grave conference over the
afternoon programme, at the conclusion of
which Mr. Pick remarked —

^' We had a rare innings yesterday. I
tell you what, Dick, the swells looked blue
enough over it, but I've a strong idea
that indigo will be nothing to 'em by the
time the card's finished to-day. This
Wandering Nun ' will be facer the first,
there'll be heavy plunging on her, and I've
got a hint from a man I can depend on that
she is not quite up to concert-pitch."

^' There is one thing more; you remember
that young parson who spoilt my game at
Tunnleton. I always stuck to it he was a
betting-man, and he is here, and what is
more he is backing 'em and no mistake. I
was just putting a young friend of mine on
Jerry for the Hunt Cap yesterday, when I
twigged him with his ears back listening to
all I was saying. Well, after that I stalked
my gentleman and found him interviewing
Hampton before every race. Now I owe
that fellow a pretty heavy score, and I should

like to settle a bit of it at this meeting. If
you give me a lift I think we can induce
him to back a loser or two pretty heavily'

'swell," rejoined Mr. Pick, 'from all
you've told me I shouldn't think you would
be the man to whom he would come for
advice, but if you can speak to him put
him on the 'Wandering Nun* to begin with."

I can't speak to him for one thing,"
rejoined the other, " and he'll back that
one safe enough without ever a hint from
me ; he's always been mad about her ; no,
from my being right about Jerry he's pretty
sure to jay attention to what I say ; I want
him to overhear a little talk between you and
me before the Gold Cup ; you understand ? "

Mr. Pick grinned in reply.

"Yes'' he said, "that also promises to
be a queer race, but we'll put the parson on
the winner, no fear — rather ! '' and, with an

ominous wink Mr. Pick disappeared through
the wicket of the inner ring.

One or two minor races were disposed of
to start with, resulting in no material difference
between backers and fielders, and
then the numbers were hoisted for the St.
James's Palace Stakes. The '' Wandering
Nun " was the cynosure of all eyes in the pack;
she was pronounced a grand mare, and
many of her admirers marvelled not a little
how she had lost the Oaks ; her coat shone
like satin, and the crowd generally announced
her in splendid condition. One or
two old hands, and more especially those
who knew the mare best, shook their heads
and muttered " She would be the better for
another gallop or two," but these cavillers
were deemed hypercritical, and the crowd,
full of enthusiasm for John Madingley's
filly, rushed back to the ring prepared to
stake their money freely on what many of

them declared was the best thing of the
meeting." The fielders were apparently
of the same way of thinking, and declined,
in the first instance, to do business
under three to one " on," and some of the
irrepressible, who are always anxious to be
early in the market, laid those odds on
the '' Wandering Nun." The bookmakers
took a point shorter later on, but excitable
Maurice, one can easily imagine, had not
waited for that but promptly laid Hampton
six hundred pounds to two hundred on the
mare as soon as the betting opened.

That there was great excitement in Mrs.
Enderby's box it is needless to say. The
ladies had not only invested one of those
subscribed rivers but all such winnings as
still remained to them from the Tuesday,
and their glasses were riveted on the '' Wandering
Nun " the minute lie made her
appearance. A slashing, dark chestnut

mare, with not a speck of white about her
save the blaze on her face, and looking
really fit to run for her life, except to a
thoroughly trained eye, owned by a man
also well acquainted with the mare. The
ladies were enthusiastic, and even Grafton,
accustomed as he was to the vicissitudes of
the race course and carefully as he had
scanned the ^' Wandering Nun " in the paddock,
told Mrs. Enderby that he thought she
was sure to see her favourite win to-day.

The race may be told in a few words ;
the " Wandering Nun " apparently held her
opponents safe until she reached the distance,
then it was seen that she was
palpably in difficulties, and, though she
struggled gamely till her jockey ceased
riding, she only finished a bad third to two
animals of infinitely inferior class to herself.
The want of condition up the
punishing Ascot mile had beaten her.

A fierce shout of exultation with which
the ring welcomed the downfall of the
favourite was succeeded by an ominous
silence. Everybody connected with racing
knew that one of the heaviest betting
meetings seen of late was going all one
way, and that the week was likely to end
in wide-spread disaster and leave many a
gap in the fashionable world ; even the ring
looked somewhat askance at its good fortune,
and a hard-headed northern member
of the fraternity was heard to say to one
of his exultant brethren,

^^Noa, noa, land, it's too good; if the
swells don't have a turn or two before we
finish there will be no stating worth
speaking of."

In Mrs. Enderby's box there was much
lamentation ; not only had they lost their
money, and women never like that, but
they were all much mortified at seeing the

VOL. HI. II

famous mare, with which they had proudly
identified themselves, beaten, and it was
with a sense of relief that Bessie and Edith
Molecombe welcomed Grafton's proposal
that they should take a turn on the lawn
and then walk up the course, have a look
into the royal inclosure, and see the horses
parade for the Gold Cup. Maurice had
disappeared the moment the race was decided,
and Mrs. Millison, a portly lady not
much given to exertion, declined to leave
her chair even to feast her eyes on the
millinery triumphs displayed in front of
the Royal Stand ; however she made no
objection to being left alone, and so, under
the charge of Mr. Millison and Grafton, the
others sallied forth.

Like many another plunger of that
memorable Ascot, Maurice glanced moodily
at his betting-book and wondered whether
he could afford to go on ; he knew very

wpII that he had no more right to continue

than he ever had to have begun, but still,

thanks to the thousand guineas, he had not

yet got to the end of his balance at his

banker's. It was impossible that things

could go on like this ; it would never do to

give up now, luck must turn He sauntered

idly towards the entrance of the inner

ring.

The next race, which was a small one,

had virtually resolved itself into a match ;

it looked pretty well a certainty for one,

and, flushed with success, the ring were

liberal enough to take short odds about the

result. Once more did Maurice boldly reply

to Hampton's challenge, and this time his

venture was crowned with success. He had

the satisfaction ol feeling that lie had

reduced his losses to some small extent. He

had not been up to the box to see this race

but had viewed it from the rails, and, as
h2

he turned away, he found himself face to
face with Dick Madingley.

*' How do you do, Mr. Enderby ? " said
Dick; 'you were pretty severe upon me
because the people at Tunnleton took an
idea into their heads and declared that I
was a liar and impostor ; do you think
there is much to choose between us now ? "

*' You'll be good enough not to address
yourself to me in future," rejoined Maurice
haughtily.

'' Now don't go on in that way, Mr.
Enderby. I'll own I couldn't stand you at
Tunnleton because I looked upon you as an
arrant hypocrite ; you declared you never
bet on races."

'^ Nor did I," rejoined Maurice quickly.

^'No matter; I suppose you'll hardly
pretend you don't now, and I like you all
the better for it. I'd do you a good turn
if you would let me."

^'I want neither your advice nor your
conversation," replied Maurice coldly.

^^ Go your own way then," replied Dick ;
^^you must have had a pretty bad time,
like the rest of them, and the upset of the
Wandering Nun ' would not improve things
for you ; she was a favourite of yours from
the first. Oh, you needn't be afraid," continued
Dick, as Maurice made a gesture of
impatience, ^' after the Gold Cup is over
perhaps you'll wish you had listened to
what I had got to say," and, turning sharply
on his heel, Madingley disappeared amongst
the throng.

Maurice could hardly suppose that Dick
would do him a good turn. He must have
been singularly blind if he had failed to seethe
rage and malice concentrated in Making
face at their last interview. He had
not been the cause of his exposure in
Tunnleton, but it was he who had baffled his

projects by threatening to divulge the further
information he had acquired concerning
him. No living thing likes being hunted
except perhaps foxes, and man is wont to
treasure up fierce resentment against his
social pursuer. No, whatever his motive
might be, it would be absurd to suppose that
he could feel any desire to be of use to him,
Maurice Enderby. And yet Maurice could
not divest himself of the idea that Dick was
really in possession of mysterious information
about the big race now so soon to be
run.

CHAPTER VII

THE GOLD CUP.

Mrs. Enderby and Edith most thoroughly
enjoyed their stroll through the lawn.
Under Grafton's guidance they passed
through the wicket, and proceeded up the
course till they were opposite the Royal
Inclosure, where they feasted their eyes on
the very last efforts of the crack London
modistes. It is a wondrous show, that lawn
on a fine Cup day, when fashion's fairest
daughters ruffle it in all their bravery. It
was their first experience of Ascot, remember.

The two country girls were delighted
with everything they saw. Grafton, it need
scarcely be said, knew by sight everyone
who was anyone in the London world, and
pointed out many celebrities to his charges.
** And now," he said, as the roar of the
betting-ring broke once more upon the ear,
'^ it is getting time we went back. The
numbers are up, and we shall have the
horses out directly."

As they reentered the wicket, Grafton
and his companion had fallen a little behind
Bessie and Mr. Millison. Suddenly Bob felt
a strange flutter on the little hand within his
arm. He turned quickly to see what was
the matter. Miss Molecombe's face was very
pale, and her eyes were looking into infinite
space with that far-away look which we all
assume when determined not to see anyone.

Just in front of them stood Mr. Richard
Madingley, busily vociferating.

'' The Gold Cup ril take odds upon."
He was well dressed enough, but there
could be no mistaking what his vocation was
even by one so little versed in race-courses
as Edith Molecombe. He was busy taking
money, and giving in exchange tickets
which he took from the bag slung across his
shoulder. Grafton would have led his
charge away, but ere he could do so Ma-dingle
had caught sight of them, and,
though Edith was most certainly not looking
at him, the unabashed scamp, with a smile,
deliberately raised his hat to her. As Grafton
told Maurice afterwards, he never felt
more inclined to try his hand at physical
force ; but, although aware that this man's
salutation was a positive insult to Miss
Molecombe, there was of course nothing to
be done ; to have resented it would have
only made a scandal, in which Edith's name
would have been bandied about.

Grafton, having seen Miss Molecombe safe
to the box, at once disappeared to see what
was doing in the betting-ring. On his way
thither he ran across Maurice, who eagerly
asked him what he thought of the Cup.

^^ Well, I don't know much what to think
of it. How are they betting ? "

^' There are only two backed in earnest.
They take even money about the Viking,
and there's a large party who are backing
old Bellona."

Ah ! I can quite understand that," observed
Grafton. '^ They know the old mare
can go the course, and it's yet to be seen
whether the young one can stay." And with
that Grafton disappeared into the inner inclosure.
Almost immediately afterwards
Maurice's attention was arrested by the
voice of Dick Madingley. He was talking
to one or two of his brethren, and apparently

perfectly unaware that Maurice was in his
vicinity.

^' No, don't tell me' he was exclaiming in
much the same arrogant way he lead been
wont to assert his opinion at the Tunnleton
Club, '' this Viking won't win. Old Bellona
will gallop him to a standstill. The swells
will get another spill, you see if they don't.
I have it pretty straight from the stable.
They very much doubt whether their horse
can stay, but they hope it will be a slow
run race, and then they know that they can
cut the old mare down for speed. But the
Bellona people are quite as wide awake as
their neighbours, and they mean the race to
be run right through."

The little group seemed much impressed
with Mr. Madingley's views, and they all
agreed that to take three to one about
Bellona under the circumstances on this information
was about as good a chance of

making money as often fell to men, and then
apparently separated to take advantage of
it.

Maurice was strangely impressed with
this conversation. It coincided in some
measure with Grafton's idea of the race, and
moreover it offered the great chance to
recoup himself, for which he so anxiously
looked. His mind was made up quickly ;
he would wait no longer, but take Hampton's
fifteen hundred to five hundred if he could
get it.

Verily, General Shrewster was right. The
gambler's instinct was strong within Maurice.


Hampton hesitated for a moment, and
then replied, ^'All right, Vir. Enderby, three
monkeys to one Bellona ; " and, that
little bit of business satisfactorily concluded,
Maurice thought he would go back to the
box and see the race. There he was nota

little surprised to find that Grafton had
changed his opinion and backed the favourite,
both for himself and his fair clients.

^•You told me you fancied the mare for
the race," said Maurice.

''So I did' replied Grafton; 'but when
I got inside there I found all the best judges
were going for the Viking, and they assured
me there wasn't the slightest doubt about
his staying."

Well, these are the sort of rumours
that backers of horses are usually destined
to hear till the race is run. Up to the very
last moment there is always somebody to
presage disaster to the steed that carries
your investment. Some gobe-mouche invariably
encounters you with tales detrimental
to that luckless horse's welfare. He
may be right, he may be wrong, but his
actual knowledge is certainly no more than
that of the policeman who keeps the wicket ;

and I once saw that official gravely consulted
on the subject of the Gold Cup by
an unmistakeable West-end cockney.

There was no delay at the starting-post
on this occasion. The half-dozen runners
were dispatched almost immediately, and
the race itself was as tame a struggle for
the Cup as ever was seen, and may be told
in two lines. Bellona made running till
they were in the Stanley Bottom, when
Viking took up the running and galloped
home an easy winner by twenty lengths,
to the great delight of Mrs. Enderby and
Edith. The irony of fate is common
enough on our leading race-courses. Wives
and daughters rejoice over the gloves and
bon-bons they have won, knowing little what
the triumph has cost their husbands and
brothers. The fickle goddess is capricious,
and is wont to deal better with our feminine
belongings than she does with ourselves

Maurice laughed gaily as he congratulated
his wife and the rest on their success,
and in answer to Grafton's inquiries as to
what he had won himself, replied, ^^I was
not so lucky as you all seem to have been;
my investment, sad to say, was on Bellona''
and then Maurice abruptly left the box.

This last defeat was a crushing blow.
He knew now that he was getting near the
end of his resources, and felt that he had
hardly capital enough remaining with which
to take advantage of a turn in the tide,
even if it should come. It had not occurred
to him that the conversation he had overheard
had been got up expressly for his
benefit ; and, only that Madingley, afraid
of risking this chance of wreaking his vengeance,
sternly discountenanced it, one of
his companions upon that occasion would have
endeavoured to lay Maurice the odds against
Bellona, which mare the confederates believed

really to have no sort of chance with
the favourite.

But Dick Madingley's malice would have
hardly been gratified without his making
Maurice aware that he had been the victim
of a little conspiracy. One of his associates
had dogged Enderby until he had heard him
make that big bet with Hampton in accordance
with the false information he had
been allowed to overhear. The confederate
quickly reported the fact to his principal,
and it was with much chuckling Madingley
and his companions saw the race terminate
just as they had anticipated.

Come along," said Dick in such jubilant
tones as a man may use who has won his
money and worsted his enemy ; for although
Dick had fielded in the first instance he had
turned round and backed the favourite to
finish with. '^ Come along," he said, '^ I
want to give the parson another chance ; he

benefitted so much by listening to gentlemen's
private conversation last time that he
is safe to be keen to be in our little secrets
again," and Mr. Madingley favoured his
friends with a wink and grimace.

^' Yes," rejoined Mr. Pick, '' it was a very
neat little plant, but it is a thousand pities
we couldn't have collared that five hundred
instead of Hampton, it would have been so
much more finished like."

The confederates had not to go far before
they saw Maurice, smoking a meditative
cigar and thinking over what he had best
do next. With another wink at his companions
Dick took up his position within
earshot of, but with his back towards, Maurice.
They clustered round him like bonnets
round a card sharper, and then Mr. Making
commenced his narration.

I'll just tell you how it was, you never
saw such a game. There's a fellow here

VOL. III. I

whom I've vowed to pay out for an ugly-trick
lie served me in the country not long
since. He's as innocent as a baby when he
gets on a race course, and I saw him going
about with his ears cocked listening here and
listening there, and seeing what he could
make of it all. When he had put it all
together I knew he looked upon it that I
was a tidy judge of racing, and it suddenly
occurred to me to put him on a ^ wrong 'un '
for the Cup. I let him hear a valuable
piece of information, and am blessed if the
sagacious cuss didn't trot off and back it fora
monkey."

An ostentatiously loud guffaw followed
the conclusion of Dick's narrative. It was
not that his listeners were really amused, it
was more like the conspirators' chorus in
^^ Madame Ingots'' a necessary fanfaronade
for the proper rendering of the plot. Maurice
had heard every word, and knew that

he was intended to hear it, and could have
grovelled on the lawn at his own foolishness.
Was it likely that any information ostentatiously
dropped by such men as Dick
Madingley could have any other object
than to delude the bystanders ? Was
it likely that Madingley would drop a
hint for his benefit ? Of course not ; but
that he would gladly be the cause of his
losing a lot of money was easy of comprehension.
He had thirsted himself to strike
Dick to the ground at Tunnleton, and was
it to be supposed that Dick's feelings towards
him had not been of similar nature ? He
had read of the salting of gold and diamond
mines, and saw now, idiot that he was, how
possible it was to salt gold mines on the
turf. If there was one man at Ascot whose
ill-will he had good cause to dread it was
Richard Madingley, and he had been insane

enough to follow his advice on a big race.
i2

^^Pool! fool! thrice sodden fool!" he
muttered. " The veriest child would have
mistrusted one who had always been his
avowed enemy, and I must actually put
faith in him. I start on a system and neglect
to follow it. I put my own judgment of
racing against Grafton's, who has been following
it the last ten years. No wonder I
have come to grief. To finish with," he continued
grimly, '' I happen to have thrown in
for the worst meeting backers have had this
year. Well, I've gone too far to give in
now. It may as well be a little worse as
left where it is. Luck must change, one
cannot always go on backing losers."

It is to be hoped not, still the sad fact
remains that one may do so for a very considerable
time. There is nothing in this life
in which luck does not form an ingredient.

Bob Grafton, lounging through the lawn
where he smoked his after-luncheon cigar, suddenly

ran across Mr. Hampton. ^' Well, we
got the best of you that last time, but you and
your brethren are having a rare meeting."

'^ Well, yes, Mr. Grafton, we are, as poor
Ned Carey used to say, I am almost tired of
winning money. I beg pardon, Mr. Grafton,
there's a gentleman you introduced me to,
who I think you should give a hint to. Mr.
Enderby is having an awful time."

*' But he's not betting high, surely ? " exclaimed
Grafton.

Well, sir," replied Hampton, ^' of course
I don't know anything about his income or
resources, nor do I know what other bets he
may be making, but he must be getting on
towards a couple of thousand to the bad in
my ledger."

^' I had no idea he was betting like that,"
replied Grafton quietly. ' ' He don't usually
speculate so heavily, but he's good enough,
if that's what you mean."

^' No, Mr. Grafton, I didn't quite mean
that. I only mean that he's backing his
bad luck right out. I've seen a meeting or
two like this before, and I can only say if I
was a backer I should turn it up and go
back to London."

As Grafton walked away he reflected
rather seriously over what the bookmaker
had told him ; he had no doubt that Hampton's
story was correct, and that Maurice,
carried away by the excitement of what
might be called his first race-meeting, had
staked heavy sums again and again. He
knew perfectly well what this was to the
Enderbys. It meant sweeping away all
these winnings of the " Wandering Nun,"
even if they sufficed to pay Maurice's liabilities.
He thought rather ruefully that it
was he who had been at the bottom of this
Ascot excursion. However, there was no
more to be said, but it made Grafton somewhat

grave for the remainder of the afternoon.


They were a somewhat sombre carriage-full
on their way back to town. First and
foremost they were all tired, and in the
crowd of the Cup day had a considerable
difficulty in getting away from Ascot station.
Two trains leaving before they succeeded
in obtaining the accommodation they
required ; and those who have experienced
that wait at the station after a fatiguing
and unsuccessful day will quite understand
that there was not much life or conversation
in the party on the way home — in short,
most of them, I think, slept more or less,
and if Maurice did not he was at all events
chewing the bitter cud of his own thoughts.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE NEWS OF ISANDHLWANA.

Ascot is over : there is nothing left but to
pay the bill, and Maurice sits gloomily this
Saturday morning, pondering over the pages
of his betting-book. It is no use hoping
for a mistake in the figures, he has gone
over it at least a dozen times, trying to
cheat himself with the idea that he has
added it up wrongly; but no, the figures
are inexorable, his losses are larger than he
had fancied them. Even if he drains his

banking account to the last shilling it will
not suffice to discharge his Ascot liabilities.
He does not quite know what to do ; he
must go and consult Grafton about it ;
indeed, he would have to do that in any
case, as it was through him that he usually
settled with Hampton. He did not quite
relish the confession he had got to make
to his friend. It is difficult to mask ill-tidings
from those who love us and are
accustomed to note every change of our
face — and, to add to his perplexities, Bessie
saw something had gone wrong with him,
and, though she was very far from guessing
the whole truth, it did not require much
penetration on her part to suspect that he
had lost more money during the week than
was justifiable.

However, having caned her apprehensions
as well as he could, he started forth
for Grafton's chambers in Half Moon Street,

and found that gentleman at breakfast, although
it was past noon.

^^ Come in," he said, 'sand sit down; T
always take it out after a hard week's racing,
especially when it has been such a week of
disaster as this has. I've a philosopher
amongst my acquaintance who always takes
to his bed when he is hard hit ; as he says,
it is the most economical thing you can do.
You don't spend money, and are hedging
any amount of sleep for livelier times."

All the time Bob rattled on he was
watching his companion's face keenly — ashe
rightly guessed, he was about to listen
to a discussion of ways and means. He
had listened to so many from all sorts of
people that he was quick at reading the
signs of the storm-beaten. Indeed, he enjoyed
quite a reputation in this way. Clear-headed
and fertile in resource, it was quite
a common saying amongst his own set,

Go to Bob Grafton, he'll pull you through
if anybody can."

^' I want to consult you, Bob," said
Maurice, as he took a chair.

^' I know' interrupted Grafton ; '' you
got hit deuced hard at Ascot. I'd no idea
you were betting heavily, or else I should
have told you not to be such a fool as todo
it. However, it's no use talking about
that now ; the question is, what does the
scrape come to ? "

'' Twenty-four eighty'' replied Maurice,
as he handed his memorandum book to his
host.

Well, you've joined the plunging school
with a vengeance," rejoined Grafton. '' I
heard something of this accidentally at Ascot.
The names of the heavy losers generally
ooze out in the ring, and I suppose you
attracted attention as a new hand. But
I'd no idea that it was so bad as this.

Well, it's no use going over it all, you've
no doubt totted it up correctly. Soo it
was lost is of no consequence — that it has
got to be paid at once — is. What are the
assets ? "

^^ About five hundred short of that amount
if I draw out my last shilling."

'' Well, you can't quite do that, you must
have some ready money to carry on with.
Hampton, I see, is your main creditor.
You must let me have as much as you can
spare on Monday morning. I'll pay off the
few minor creditors, I will give Hampton
all there is left on account, and ask him
to give you time for the remainder."

'' Yes," said Maurice, gloomily, *' I know
all that can be done, but the worst of it is,
I don't see what time is to do for me."

'' I do," rejoined Grafton ; ^'and, if you'll
promise me solemnly not to go plunging
any more, I can give you a gleam of comfort

in that direction. Remember, the
Wandering Nun ' was all amiss at Epsom,
and she hadn't got over it at Ascot, but I
can tell you what I saw there, some of the
cleverest men on turf were backing her
quite quietly for the Leger. Now, you
stand to win quite enough upon her without
backing her. Half the Leger Stakes will
satisfy Hampton and put your banking
account in a very satisfactory position —
should it happen to come off."

'' Let me only get out of the trouble
that way, and I will give my word never
to go racing again. I can't trust myself,
Bob ; it's intoxication, infatuation, what
you will ; but I couldn't look on at it
without betting."

'^ No, I understand you now," replied
Grafton, " and deeply regret I ever persuaded
you to accompany me to a racecourse.
I've met your sort before, nothing

but total abstinence is of any use to you ;
and I tell you what, old man, the sooner
you get something to do^to work your
superfluous steam off at, the better. You're
certain to come to grief if you stop idling
about town."

Talk about marking out our own career,
how very little we often have to say to it.
Men who have started for the bar have
become eminent dramatists ; men who have
started for the navy have become famous
judges ; while warriors like Cromwell and
Clive were not bred to arms. Had it not
been for Uncle John's wedding present,
Maurice Enderby might have blossomed
into a respectable clergyman ; as it is,
wherever his future may lie, he will never
attain celebrity in this wise. Yet Maurice's
pen was getting recognised amongst the
guild of literature as that of a bright, lively
writer with considerable power of satire, one

who handled the topics of the day in light,
masterly, and, above all, readable fashion.
It might not be very lucrative employment
as yet, but he had at all events established a
market for his wares.

Now another person whose character had
been somewhat altered by Ascot was Miss
Molecombe. She had been, previously to
her affair with Dick Madingley, a quiet
conventional young lady ; but these latter
events had imparted a certain amount of
dash and possession to her manner which
it had not possessed before. She had been
pretty well cured of her passion for Dick
Madingley before going to stay with the
Millions. No girl who had dared so much
for a lover could have stood the cool, premeditated
neglect that followed the fiasco
of her attempted elopement. She had stood
up for him for some time, but her womanly
pride had been cut to the quick, and it must
have been indeed a very clear explanation

which would restore him to her good graces.
At Ascot she saw him in his true colours,
and the very salt was sown over her dead
love with a vengeance ; but strange to say
she returned to Tunnleton with a great admiration
for Maurice Enderby. He had
been so loyal and true to her, and above all
the very iniquities now charged against him
rather glorified him in her eyes. That Mr.
Enderby had withdrawn from the Church,
and had lost a very large sum of money at
Ascot, was no secret whatever in Tunnleton.
The latter Dick Madingley had taken care
should reach that town, where he hoped it
might do Maurice considerable harm. He
was not aware that Enderby had severed all
connection with it, but the blackening of
Maurice's character was a thing to which
he was ready to devote himself ungrudgingly.
But Miss Molecombe looked back
upon Maurice's misdeeds, when they came to
her knowledge, with a species of reverence.

We all understand it. The petty sinners
regard the great ones with a quiet awe.
And the mild gamblers of the race-course
revere the magnates of the turf, whose
chief claim to celebrity lies in the fact that
they bet in thousands, instead of wagering
the more modest stakes of their fellows.
Even mere boys who have lost some thousands
in anticipation of their patrimony are
looked at with morbid interest, and yet if
there is one thing within every one's accomplishment
it is the losing of money.

When General Shrewster heard the Ascot
story he wrote a few sensible lines to Maurice,
in which, while regretting that his
warning had been so quickly found too prophetic,
he repeated Bob Grafton's advice of
'^ total abstinence'' and further added,
^' There is trouble arising in South Africa,
and you should hold yourself in readiness to
take advantage of the earliest opportunity

VOL. III. K

of volunteering that may arise. Count upon
me to back you in this. Now, to help yourself.
I have heard that you wield a smartish
pen of your own. Can't you get an appointment
from one of the daily papers should
these rumours turn out true ? It would be
no detriment to you as an extra aid, remember,
to be in possession of the ear of a
prominent daily. Take my advice, and
look after the second string at once, and, if
you can't speak whatever the lingo of those
parts may be, well, pretend you can."

Maurice was thunderstruck as he finished
this letter. Mr. Greville, in his memoirs,
recalls how Epsom and Newmarket utterly
absorb a man, and Maurice had forgotten
for some days to take note of anything in
the papers that did not bear upon the pursuit
uppermost in his thoughts, but though he
heeded them not, and the Government also
troubled their heads but little about it, there

were signs of stormy times on the Cape
frontier. We were acting with our usual
contempt for our neighbours, arrogantly-sending
a corporal's guard to put down a
simmering insurrection which required a
division to intimidate it.

It is our way, I suppose. We are so impressed
with the manner in which a handful
of policemen cow a London mob, that we
believe a like handful of soldiers will suffice
to strike terror into the hearts of our savage
neighbours. We are astonished to find that,
much as well-trained soldiers can effect by
science and superior weapons, yet, when the
foe, exulting in his numbers, has, reckless of
loss, fought his way in to a hand to hand struggle,
the barbarian's sinews are tougher than
those of our own men. Overweening confidence
and insufficient numbers have been the
cause of more than one disaster to our arms,

and first successes give courage to the enemy.
k2

Here and there an old military man, who
knew the country, shook his head, and prophesied
that if Government did not stamp
this little agitation out promptly they would
find themselves involved in an awkward war
before many weeks were over.

The croakers were right — these prophets
of ill omen are at times — and, when the cable
flashed the news that a British regiment had
been annihilated, the nation was one in demanding
that the Zulu king should be at
once brought to his knees. A mere question
of time and troops, no doubt, but meanwhile
those with a stomach for fighting were like
to get their fill of it.

The story of the all but annihilation of
the twenty-fourth, and heroic defence of
Yorke's Drift, had not yet reached England,
when General Shrewster wrote, but it followed
pretty quickly on the heels of his
letter, and Maurice saw now that the chance

had come to him. As General Shrewster
had foreseen, brigadiers, staff-officers, and
newspaper correspondents, were all on the
wing, and tumbling over each other in their
anxiety to procure employment of some sort
beyond the Tugela.

Note. — There is some little discrepancy in the time
of the disaster of Isandhlwana, and history has had to
bend here to the exigencies of fiction. I can only

Fairly acknowledge I
At school or college I
Never was very precise in chronology."

CHAPTER IX.

THE LEAGUER.

If England had been startled and Europe
amazed at the terrible intelligence that the
cable had flashed from South Africa, it was
nothing to the dismay that spread through
the country itself. In Natal the news of the
disaster produced a positive panic. It was
rumoured that the Zulu army, flushed with
victory, had crossed the T'ugela and were ina
fair way to overrun the province. Paris
and Berlin, as well as London, were aghast

at the catastrophe. Even in civilised warfare
it is rare to hear of the annihilation of a
regiment, and, singular to relate, it was the
same regiment that some thirty odd years
before had died grimly fighting almost to a
man, in India, on the fatal field of Chilling
That the scare should be pretty
general through the provinces bordering on
Zululand was excusable, considering that
even the military leaders took a most gloomy
view of the situation, and at once abandoned
the initiative for the defensive.

Had the Zulus of that time been led by
one of those wild military enthusiasts who
seem born to ride the whirlwind and direct
the storm, they would have swept like a
torrent across the Tugela, annihilating convoy
after convoy in their triumphant march,
but, according to the manner of barbarians,
their first impulse, after striking a great
blow, was to return home in triumph with

their plunder. Our own Highlanders in the
last century had a good deal of this feeling,
and, though easy to gather for one supreme
effort, were difficult to hold together for a
continuous campaign.

Colonel Pearson, advancing into Zululand
at the head of a long straggling convoy, had
arrived as far as Etshowe, when he received
news of the catastrophe of Isandhlwana,
with orders to entrench himself where he
was, and to be prepared to bear the attack
of the whole Zulu army. This the column
did without loss of time, and for about a
month was known to the outer world no
more.

The first streaks of dawn were just visible
in the heavens ; the advanced sentries
drop slowly in and report that all is quiet
as far as they can ascertain, but everyone
knows that Etshowe is surrounded by
a numerous and subtle foe ; they have had

too many proofs of late both of the numbers
and cunning of their enemies not to be
strictly on the alert ; creeping up noiselessly
through the night again and again, the Zulus
had become only visible at the last moment,
when, with a savage yell, they made a
determined attempt to rush the entrenchments,
but so far they had been invariably
repulsed with heavy loss. As the sun tops
the horizon and lights up the big rolling
prairie, clothed for the most part in long
grass, dotted here and there with mealie
fields, one recognises how easy it is for the
savage foe to conceal his numbers, and, in
the hours of darkness, steal up to the attack ;
but there are keen eyes and stout hearts
behind those breastworks, and, as long as
the cartridges and food hold out, there is
little fear of the Zulus ever getting inside.

A tall, bearded man, clad in semi-military
costume, stands resting his elbows on the

parapet and eagerly scans the country
through a field-glass, but apparently without
discovering anything worthy of his attention.
As he ]cuts down his glass a quiet
voice by his side observes,

'^ Another night of tranquillity, Mr.
Enderby ? "

'eyes, sir," replies Maurice, as he turned
and touched his cap to the veteran chief
who stood beside him; '^ you don't suppose
they will raise the siege, do you ? "

'not a bit of it," replied the colonel;
'' I've had much experience on the frontiers,
and the Zulus, like all barbarians, are full
of tricks and stratagems. They are only
trying to lull us into fancied security. I
wish we could hear something from the
outside ; we know less of what is going on
than they do in London''

'' And know, I should think, sir," replied

Maurice, laughing, ^' more about the Zulu
army than most people."

'^ Ah," replied the chief, '' we can't tell
how much of that army we have got around
us ; except in small bodies we never catch
much sight of them by day, and in the
night attacks it is difficult to judge of their
numbers. By the way, Shrewster, in his
letter to me, told me your object in volunteering,
and I've seen quite enough of you
here to know that you have the makings
of a good soldier. Now I can't say for
certain, but the probability is in two or
three days I shall want a volunteer on a
very delicate mission ; I don't disguise from
you it's a risky one, but if you pull through
all right it will count as a special bit of
service, and strengthen your claim considerably
for a commission."

'^ It's only too kind of you to give me
the chance," replied Maurice; ^^I can only

promise when the time comes to do my
level best."

That'll do," said the chief ; '' only don't
forget a cool head is the first essential in
difficulties," and, with a slight nod, he
walked away into the interior of the fort,
leaving Maurice to wonder what his special
mission might prove.

It was rather a grim consultation at which
the chief had next to preside. He had to
point out to his second and third in command
that their stock of provisions was
getting low, and that, though he had
no doubt they could hold Etshowe for
months had they food, yet their ability todo
so was now simply dependent on that
fact.

^^I don't like to do it, but I am afraid I
shall be compelled to put the force upon
half-rations. It is a sad necessity, for the
men are hard worked; you can't expect to

get that out of either man or horse unless
they are well fed."

No," replied one of the other officers,
'^ moreover there is a good deal of sickness
amongst both officers and men. They don't
give in, but stick to their work pluckily
enough, still they are not likely to improve
upon half rations "

^^ No," rejoined the Chief, "but there is
no sign of any relief for us as yet, and we
do know that four weeks at the present issue
of food will bring us about to the end of our
stock."

That's true," re lied the other, '' and,
even when we get an intimation that succour
is on its way to us, it may be still some time
before it arrives."

Quite so," said the chief, *' and as it is
clearly our business to hold out till the last
I shall put the garrison on half-rations from
tomorrow. It looks as if the massacre of

Isandhlwana had been by no means the
measure of our disasters. The commander-in-chief
would have surely contrived to communicate
with us before this if there had not
been further trouble."

Maurice's first experience of active service,
had been by no means cheering The march
up to Etshowe had been all very well ; riding
through a strange country in which they
might hourly expect to be attacked had a
wild excitement about it which sent the
blood coursing through the veins and made
the pulses tingle, but this being rooted up,
like a rat in a corner, the dull and depressing
routine of siege life, is about the hardest
trial that a soldier has to endure, followed
as it usually ii by all the privations of insufficient
food et cetera. As for fighting, the
Zulus, to do them justice, took care they
should have plenty of that. Maurice, like all
his comrades, knew that they were fighting

for their very lives. Their fierce foes had
already shown them how they construed
'^ washing their spears," and every one in
Etshowe knew that if the place was taken
the Zulus would spare no one within its
ramparts. Men die hard when fighting for
their lives, and so far the Zulus had found
Etshowe a stubborn nut to crack. But they
knew as well as its beleaguered defenders
that there was a limit to their provisions,
and waited patiently till the time should
come when the garrison would have to
choose between surrender or that last expedient
of the desperate, an attempt to cut
their way through.

About two days after the order for alterations
had been given oil some of the
soldiers were suddenly struck with some
singular flashes that illumined the sky in the
direction of the lower Tugela, and no sooner
was this fact communicated to their officers

than the entire garrison crowded out to see
what could be made of it. The officers welcomed
it with a great sense of relief. It was
apparent to them that their own people were
striving to communicate with them by means
of the telegraph. It is true that so far
they were unable to interpret the signals,
but one thing was clear, assistance was approaching,
and that one fact did more to
raise the spirits of the gallant little band
than even luxury in the shape of rations
could have done. There is something terribly
depressing in utter isolation to most
of us, but nothing perhaps tries the soldier
more heavily when besieged than complete
ignorance of what his friends on the outside
may be doing on his behalf. The leagued
force at once attempted to reply in similar
fashion, but the afternoon wore away without
their being able to interpret the signals.
This however was clear: that friends

were signalling to them, and evidently recognised
their flashes in response. Whether
they were understood any better than they
understood the telegraphs of the relieving
column they were of course unable to judge,
but that assistance was close at hand was
beyond all doubt. The next day was a repetition
of the abortive signalling, and still,
much to his disgust, the commandant found
himself in ignorance of what the advancing
column was trying to say to him. As far as
they could judge by the flashes, the sig-callers
were stationary, and had not moved
since yesterday ; they were some twenty
miles off, apparently, but that was rather a
matter of guesswork. The commandant was
much exercised in his mind on this point.
Was the relieving force held in check by
the Zulus, and were they inviting him to cooperate
in a grand attack ? Was this the
meaning of the quiet of the last two or three

VOL. III. L

days, had the Zulus withdrawn from
around Etshowe with a view to giving battle
to the relieving force ? If so they were
probably lying more or less masked on the
road leading to the fort. It was, he thought,
imperative that he should communicate with
the leader of the advancing column. He
must send a messenger — a dangerous errand
no doubt, still a resolute, well-mounted man
might get through, carrying with him such
explanations as would make all signalling
easy for the future, and who would also be
able to speak as to the exact state of things
in Etshowe. He had been prepared to do
this before when without the knowledge
that assistance was so near at hand, and it
seemed to him still more necessary to send
that messenger now. His mind was soon
made up, and then he sent for Maurice.

Briefly he explained what he wanted.

'^ It's not a nice ride for you, Enderby,

and you'll want both sabre and revolver
ready to your hand, but I think if you keep
your head cool you'll pull through. A good
deal depends upon your horse, and you've
my authority to take your choice of any one
in the fort''

^^ Thank you, sir, but I think my own
horse looks as well as any of them ; he's got
a bit of blood about him that'll serve me
well if it comes to a pinch. I had plenty
of opportunities of trying him on the way
up, and know he'll do his best in case of
need."

'^ Good ! you'd better start just before
daybreak. I will have the road patrolled so
as to ensure you a clear start. My impression
is that you will see no Zulus till
you get some miles from here."

^'You don't think they have withdrawn

from around Etshowe ? " inquired Maurice.

In the main yes. They've left part of
l2

their army here to watch us, but the bulk of
it is withdrawn to give battle to the force
coming up to relieve us, and it is as you
near that you will run the greatest danger.
You had better spend the afternoon concerting
a simple code of flashes with Chamberlain
; he seems to understand the telegraph
better than any one else, and to
thoroughly establish communication is, of
course, the chief object''

And with a quiet nod the commandant
dismissed Enderby for the present.

As for Maurice, he left the room in search
of Chamberlain as gay as a lark. A somewhat
hazardous piece of service it might be,
but it may be doubted whether there was an
officer in the garrison who would not have
been delighted to change places with him.
In war men are called upon to risk their
lives day by day, to die with their face to the
foe, with the brief epitaph that they have

done their duty, or if fortunate enough to
escape shot and steel to be rewarded with
the homely but pithy observation 'That it
was all in the day's work " ; but here was a
chance. The man who carried out this mission
successfully would be sure of praise,
and had a fair promise of being mentioned
in the despatches. Maurice knew well that
in most callings the man who can carry a
still tongue is wont to be most trusted by
his superiors. To no one of his comrades
did he confide his forth-coming departure
save Chamberlain. That officer it was necessary
to acquaint with the orders he had
received, to explain the urgent need of his
being instructed in heliograjDhy to the extent
that time would allow ; and before sundown
he had mastered sufficient of the science of
flashes to feel certain that to the extent of a
simple code communication would be established
between Etshowe and the relieving

force, should he only succeed in reaching it.
That done, he jealously superintended the
doing-up of his horse, and then, having
finished his own supper, threw himself on
his pallet to snatch a few hours' rest before
starting on his perilous ride.

CHAPTER X.

A PERILOUS RIDE.

It wanted considerably over an hour to daybreak
when Maurice was aroused from his
slumbers and told that the chief was awaiting
him. A toilet is a brief and hasty ceremony
at such times, and a very few minutes
elapsed before he followed the orderly across
the open space to that wing of the mission-house
which served as the commandant's
quarters.

'' I have nothing much more to say to

you," said the veteran, as he acknowledged
Maurice's salute, ^^ than to wish you Godspeed,
and shake hands. You will tell how
it is with us here to whoever commands the
relieving column. Say we can last on the
half-ration for three weeks yet, and that
they will never turn us out of the fort
except by starvation. Take an old hand's
advice — spare your horse on the early part
of your road so as to keep all the powder you
can in him for the time when you will have
to trust to his heels. Let the first flash you
can send us announce your own safety. The
picket report that they can get no touch of
the enemy as far as they have been along
the road; and now God bless you and send
you safe through ; the sooner you are in the
saddle the better," and as he concluded the
veteran extended his hand and exchanged a
hearty hand-grip with Maurice.

Enderby's final preparations were soon

concluded. Some two or three hours would
either bring him to his destination or see
him in the hands of the Zulus if alive. There
was no necessity, therefore, for carrying
food with him, and it was best he thought
to travel as light as possible. He confided a
letter to Chamberlain to be forwarded to his
wife in the event of the worst happening
to him, and then, having looked carefully
to girth and bridle, swung himself into
the saddle, and made his way quietly to
the gate. A quiet ^' good luck " from the
officer commanding there, and then Maurice
found himself without the entrenchments,
and fairly started on his errand. He jogged
gently along at starting, peering into the
darkness on every side, for it was now that
blackest hour of the night which liberals the
dawn, which from late experience he knew
was a favourite time with the Zulus for commencing
their attack. He would have been

troubled to have increased his speed much
at present, for it was just as much as he
could do to make out the track, which even
in broad daylight was by no means very
well defined. More than once he turned in
his saddle and checked his horse, while he
looked back to see if there was any stir at
Etshowe, but no — all was still. He had
been travelling now as far as he could guess
for about an hour, and, though the fort was
long lost to sight, yet his ear must have
caught the sharp rattle of musketry and the
fierce yells of the foe had there been any
attack upon it.

He hailed the first streaks of dawn with
no little satisfaction. If the Zulus were
more likely to catch sight of him by daylight,
he, on the other hand, was more
likely to blunder into their midst in the
darkness. Then, again, with light it would
be possible to travel considerably faster. As

far as he could guess lie was now some four
miles from the fort, and he hoped had traversed
a fourth or so of his journey. And
now the sun peeps above the horizon ; the
stars have faded away ; a few minutes more
and another day has begun. Maurice pulls
up his horse, and gazing around takes stock
of the situation. He can see Etshowe behind
him, and in the clear morning air can
almost make out the sentries on its ramparts ;
but with that exception there is not a sign
of a human being. He can see the track
plainly enough now, and just at present it
seems to be pretty fair going. Putting his
horse into a hand-canter, he rides gaily forward,
and is half inclined to already deem
the dangers of his expedition overrated.
Still, he had seen too much of the cunning
of the Zulus to relax his vigilance, and
knows that as yet he has not come to wherein
the opinion of his chief, he might expect

to be waylaid by the enemy. He has got
over another three miles in easy fashion,
and is approaching a place where the road
bends considerably to the right. Round that
bend he thinks it quite possible he may catch
sight of the distant laager of the relieving
column. Suddenly he fancies he sees a
black head appear for a second above the
crop in a mealie field to the right. It disappears
almost instantaneously, but another
minute convinces him he was not mistaken,
as in half a dozen places the dark heads
appear for an instant above the crest of the
corn, and then as suddenly vanish. Yes, he
has come upon the enemy now, and then it
flashes across him what is happening. The
Zulus drive caught sight of him, and are
hurrying under cover of the mealies to intercept
him just beyond the bend, He knows
now that the crisis has arrived, and that

Bay Robin will be called upon to gallop in
real earnest.

He shakes up his horse ; and, as Bay
Robin settles down to his stride, Maurice
thanks Heaven that he has a stretch of fair
galloping ground in front of him. A yell
bursts from the throats of the Zulus as
Maurice's quickened pace tells them they
are discovered. Throwing off all further
attempt at concealment, they come trooping
in irregular order through the mealies as
fast as they can. But if the corn had
afforded them cover in the first instance,
and so nearly compassed Maurice's destruction,
it stood to him now. It hindered his
foes from progressing as fast as they otherwise
would ; the fleet-footed Zulus could
not utilise their speed as they might have
done in the open ground, and Maurice saw,
with a gleam of exultation, that, with the
exception of some half-dozen of the foremost,

he should easily outstrip the remainder.
These were straining every nerve to intercept
him just below the bend. Should they
fail to arrest him there. Bay Robin would
speedily bear him beyond their reach.

^' There'll be a tussle for it, my horse,"
muttered Maurice, as he bent forward in
the saddle and patted the animals neck;
*' we're tailing them off nicely, but they
haven't near so far to go as we have, and
those leading fellows will be in time to
throw their assegais at us. We must chance
it, and take very good care that, if their
assegais don't hit us the first time, they
have no chance to throw a second."

It turned out even better than Maurice
had anticipated. He is round the bend,
and then it becomes evident that he will
have to deal with no more than three of his
enemies. Two of them emerged from the
mealie field and gained the edge of the

track just as Enderby comes well round
the bend. They are still some hundred
and fifty yards from him, while the third
man has not as yet emerged from the corn.
Drawing his sabre, and setting spurs to his
horse., with a wild cheer Maurice dashes
straight at them. Breathless with their
long run, the two Zulus are not as accurate
as usual in their aim. A couple of assegais
whizz harmlessly past the horseman. One
of the two, a big powerful fellow, makes a
desperate snatch at Bay Robin's bridle,
only to go down before a swashing sabre-cut
that lays his right cheek open in grizzly
fashion.

'* But sabres shall swing,
And lead-pieces ring,
When the gallants of England
Are up for their King'*

muttered Maurice with a grim laugh in all
the intoxication of battle, as he and Bay

Robin sped merrily onwards. Forward —
away — onward, onward, the best part of a
mile is past before Maurice drew bridle, then
the broken ground dictated a slackening of
speed. Sheathing his sabre he looked back
and saw that the Zulus were gathered round
the fallen man, still brandishing their spears
at him, but they had evidently abandoned all
idea of pursuit. Once more he laughed in
his beard, but still pricked on as quickly ashe
could conveniently go over the uneven
track. Once more he comes to a stretch of
smoother ground, and again presses his horse
to a hand-gallop. Bay Robin is barely in
his stride when he swerves across the track
so suddenly that a less practised horseman
than Maurice would very likely have been
unseated. It was well the gallant brute had
done so, for half-a-dozen assegais whizzed
passed his rider that would in all probability
have taken effect had it not been for Bay

Robin's being startled by the gleam of the
spears in the long grass to his right. As it
is, from some cause or other, the horse
nearly blunders on his knees, and half-a
dozen Zulus rush forward to seize their
victim. Quick as thought Maurice draws
his revolver from the holster. Crack ! crack !
and the two nearest bite the dust. Bay
Robin recovers himself by a supreme effort,
and gallops on with unabated vigour, but it
is not for long. Another half-mile and his
rider feels the gallant horse faltering in his
stride. He turns an anxious glance back,
but his foes, singularly enough, have already
vanished. He pulls Bay Robin together,
but feels that he is dying away under his
hand. What has come to him ? He lurches
in his gallop, and as Maurice pulls him up is
beginning to sprawl after the fashion of a
drunken man. His rider has barely time to
jump from his back ere the honest brute

VOL. III. M

pitches heavily forward, and then rolls over
on his side. It is clear enough now, the
cruel assegai is quivering in his flank, and
Maurice knows that his charger's last course
is run.

He looks round. Small chance of his
escape now he thinks. His foes can be buta
few hundred yards behind him, and as
soon as they see he is dismounted, there is

little likelihood but what they will start in

*/

hot pursuit; although he can see nothing
of them he has small doubt but that they
are watching his movements. Singular, he
thinks, that a fierce yell of triumph did not
burst from their throats as they witnessed
the fall of his horse. He drew the revolver
from his holster, loosened his sabre in its
sheath, and made up his mind to sell his
life dearly. That they would be on him
before many minutes he looked upon ascertain
; and then he cast a despairing look

along the track in front of him. Ah ! could

it be possible ? Yes, he felt sure of it —

a long way off yet, but there was a laager

straight ahead. Could he gain it ? and

Maurice strode manfully forward.

Every moment he expected to hear the

whizz of an assegai ; but no ; he trudged

along a good mile and still his foes made

no sign. Again and again he looked back

but could see nothing of them, and at last

the truth dawned upon him : the Zulus were

ambushed with a view to attacking the

relieving column as soon as it was once

more on its march ; they were afraid to

follow him further for fear of discovering

themselves. Maurice's spirits arose; let him

gain the laager and the information he

brought with him was of the highest value,

not only to those whom he had left but to

those he would join.

He had not trudged far before he espied
ma

small party of horsemen riding leisurely
towards him ; it was evident, moreover, that
they had already caught sight of him ;
although some distance off he felt pretty
sure that these were friends. Another
minute and two of them, detaching themselves
from the group, came galloping towards
him. The foremost was an officer,
and, as he reined up his horse close to
Maurice, he exclaimed,

^' Who are you and where do you come
from ? "

''I am a messenger from Etshowe,''
replied Maurice, '' and the bearer of important
news for your general''

'' When did you leave the fort ? "

'' A little before daybreak."

*' They were all right then?" asked the
officer eagerly.

"" Yes, and quite able to hold out for sometime
yet."

'^Ah, we've been trying to communicate
with you for the last two or three days, but
our people can't understand your flashes.
You haven't come on your feet, surely ? "

^^ No, I left a good horse on the road
about three miles back. It was a squeak
and I had to ride for it. I pulled through,
but they killed my horse, and a right good
one he was, too."

''Ah, you came through the Zulus?"
said the dragoon; ''I suppose they lie
pretty thick between us and the fort ? "

'' Yes," laughed Maurice, as he tramped
onwards by the side of his companion's
horse; 'you will find them thick as thieves
some few miles ahead."

Well," replied the other, " the general
will be glad to see you ; lie is very anxious,
I know, to get news from Etshowe. It was
a great relief to us all to get those answering
flashes on the bibliography ; we couldn't

make out what you said but they showed
you were all right, and we're within a long
day's march of the fort now. We are
advancing rather slowly because we expect
to come in contact with the enemy every
hour. Now if you will follow with my
orderly I'll gallop back to camp and report
that you are on your way to the general.
You've a good three miles before you
yet, but I'll send out a horse to meet
you, which will save you a bit," and, so
saying, the dragoon set spurs to his horse
and galloped off with his news.

And now, as Maurice neared the laager
it was evident that all the preparations for
the march had been suddenly suspended.
His former acquaintance met him with a
led horse.

'^ Jump on," he cried ; *^ the general
wants to see you immediately. You are
upsetting all the programme," he continued

laughing ; -^ the orders are for the camp to
stand fast while the rocket-troop and horse
artillery go forward and search all this long
grass right and left of us."

Thus adjured Maurice swung himself into
the saddle, and, guided by his new friend,
found himself in less than a quarter-of-an
hour at the laager.

CHAPTER XI.

A NIGHT ATTACK.

Excitement in Etshowe ran high that morning.
It was pretty well known, two hours
after daybreak by the garrison that Maurice
Enderby had been despatched to carry a
message to the relieving column. Would he
get through, was the question at that moment
in all men's mouths. They would soon know
now. Had not Captain Chamberlain said
that if Mr. Enderby won his way through
safely the telegraph of their friends would
be easy to understand. At length the well-known

flashes were once more discerned,
and from those entrusted with the signalling,
suddenly came forth a ringing cheer. Even
the veteran commandant's stern features relaxed
as he said, spread it out to them,
Chamberlain, read it out."

'' Shall be with you tomorrow, Enderby
safe!" and then the cheer of that small party
on the ramparts in charge of the signalling
was re-echoed by the throats of the whole
garrison, who knew now that their wearied
leaguer was over, and that they should
henceforth meet the foe in the open. Full
rations were served out immediately, and
the whole garrison perked up and discussed
jauntily the likelihood of their commencing
the offensive and of making a sharp sortie to
assist their deliverers.

Maurice meanwhile had made his report
to the general commanding, who had quickly
decided what to do. Find in o^ there was no

immediate necessity for reaching Etshowe
that night, he determined to advance
leisurely, searching the ground on his front
and on his flanks rigorously as he proceeded.
He felt very little doubt that he should have
to fight the Zulu army before he reached
the fort ; it should be to-day if they chose,
but if not he intended to join hands with
the Etshowe garrison on the morrow, though
all Zululand stood in his path.

'' You have done your mission very well,
Mr. Enderby," he said, as Maurice finished
his narrative ; ^ ' and now after your riding
for your life to get out of the place you will
have to take a turn with us and fight your
way in again. You say you saw no large
bodies of the enemy ? "

Mere pickets, sir, about thirty in the first
instance and not more than six or eight in the
second, but we had little doubt at Etshowe
that the besieging force had been withdrawn

to meet you, and from what I saw, I should
say you would come across them some five
or six miles from here ; " and then Maurice
was dismissed in charge of an aide-de-camp,
who contrived to furnish him with a tolerable
breakfast, which went far to cement their
acquaintance.

The camp broke up, and the long column
crept cautiously along the track, covered by
a could of skirmishers with a rocket-troop
and horse artillery. Right and left flew
the rockets, while the shells dropped here
and there into the mealie fields, and now and
again into the long grass, and as they crept
on it became speedily apparent that, although
carefully masked, the enemy were in considerable
force in front of them. They did
not like the shells, still bore them with tolerable
equanimity, but the rockets seemed to
demoralise them, and more than once considerable
numbers broke from their cover

A FALSE START.

and retreated with more rapidity than military
etiquette sanctions.

'^ Ha ! Ha ! " laughed the general as he
caught sight of a strong body of the dusky
foe, retiring in a manner that almost savoured
of flight. '^ What a dressing we will give
these fellows tomorrow morning, if they will
only stand. Signal to Etshowe to make a
sortie in their rear as soon as the sound
of our guns tells them we are thoroughly
engaged."

Steadily the advance continued, the Zulus
retiring before them as they pushed onward.
That the enemy was in considerable force
there could be little doubt. He was evidently
extremely anxious to conceal his
numbers. The rockets and shells here and
there forced small bodies to abandon the cover,
and discover themselves, but it was always
very temporarily, and the mass of the foe had
carefully refrained from exhibiting itself.

Still no soldier could fail to understand that
he was driving a large force of the enemy
before him, neither routed nor demoralised
but retiring leisurely in their own fashion
and for their own reasons.

^' These fellows don't mean to let us get to
Etshowe without fighting," said the general,
'' but they mean to fight on ground of their
own choosing; they can't surely be such fools
as to make their stand under the guns of the
fort. What do you think, Mr. Enderby,"
he continued, ^' can you make any guess
where they will fix their stand ? "

"' Not in the least, sir'' replied Maurice,
'' but, from what I've seen of them, they
won't retire much further before they
attack."

When they had arrived within some nine
or ten miles of Etshowe the general sounded
a halt, and, although it was only midday,
gave the order to laager and encamp for

the night. He confided to his staff that his
men would be all fresh by these means for a
night attack, and if the enemy did not think
fit to make that he would have a long day
before him to fight his way through to the
walls of Etshowe. The camp was formed
with the greatest possible care. Pickets and
scouts were thrown out around it, and the
strictest vigilance enjoined on all those
whose duty it was to watch. They had had
a long afternoon in which to prepare, and, as
the general at sundown made his final rounds
in person, he felt confident that, in the event
of a night attack, his foes would be, so to
speak, running their heads against a brick
wall.

Maurice stretched himself under a waggon
by the side of his new friend, who, curiously
enough, turned out to be a younger brother
of Bob Grafton. A more light - hearted
dragoon than Charlie Grafton never held her

Majesty's commission, and when the two
had made each other out they fraternized
immediately.

^^ It's a precious little bit of earth this old
planet of ours," laughed the dragoon as he
lit his pipe. ^' If you're only a sociable
beggar you can't go anywhere without
tumbling over somebody you know. Lord !
how often I've heard Bob talk of you. He
was never tired of telling the story of
Mrs. Enderby's wedding present. But I
say, how did you come out here ? you were
in a very different line the last time I heard
of you."

^' Yes," said Maurice, as a cloud of smoke
rolled from under his moustache, ^^ I
started in the wrong groove. Pray don't
think I've a word to say against religion
simply because I found I wasn't fit to be
one of its ministers. As an old friend of
your brothers and mine said, ' You may

make a dragoon, but you'll never make a
parson.' A fellow must be made for something
in this world, and I'm trying to see
whether he is right."

'' Jolliest life out," replied the other.
^* whether on service or in garrison; but you
must get into the regulars, you know. Just
at present, I take it, you belong to nothing
? "

^^No," said Maurice, '^ I'm a sort of half
orderly, half aide-de-camp, with no exact
position. However the chief is very good
to me, and usually finds me something todo."


*^ I suppose you can't guess where these
fellows will make their stand ? "

'^ Well, I fancy that they did mean that
you should have marched into the middle of
them by this, but the general is too old a
hand for that. The advance was much too
guarded to have fallen into an ambuscade.

I think, judging from past experience, that
we shall hear plenty of them before morning."


Ah, well ! they won't find us asleep, and
it ought to cost them pretty dear if they
venture to attack the laager. Good-nights''
And rolling himself in his cloak Charlie
Grafton was speedily wrapped in slumber.

Maurice soon followed his example, and,
tired out more by the excitement than the
fatigues of the day, slept soundly. He was
awoke by a hand being laid on his arm, and
looking up found the dragoon stooping over
him.

'the word's passed'' he said, 'Ho stand
to our arms. One or two of the picket have
just come in with a message from the officer
in charge, to the effect that he believes the
enemy to be closing in in force on our front
and right flank''

'' Let's creep out and have a look at

VOL. III. N

them' replied Maurice, springing to his feet,
and in another two or three minutes he and
Charlie Grafton had passed without the improvised
walls of their temporary citadel,
and were stealing along through the rough,
coarse grass that surrounded it.

The training of the last few weeks stood
Maurice in good stead. He had a keen eye
for their subtle enemy, and was quick to
detect these dusky warriors, as, taking advantage
of every bit of cover, they crept
within springing distance of their foes.
They had not gone far before he suddenly
gripped Grafton's arm, and then, crouching
on his knees, whispered—

'^ Hist ! they're coming and no mistake.
I'm dreadfully afraid they have got round
the picket. I can swear I saw a fellow slip
behind that big boulder about fifty yards in
front of us. Ah!" he continued, ^*the
game's begun, as three or four rifle-shots

rang sharp and shrill on the night air. A
hoarse cry of — ^* Stand to your arms' was
heard from the laager, and in another
instant rapid flashing of the rifles showed
that the pickets were in quick retreat all
round.

^' Come along, we must run for it, we're
only in the way out here."

They didn't start a minute too soon, and
it was well for them that they had not far to
go, for scores of their active foes started
from the grass behind them and came
bounding forward in pursuit. As they
regained the laager, the bugle sounded the
*fire," and in another second their side of
the square became a blaze of musketry. The
Zulus now came on openly and in great
numbers. Many of them were armed with
rifles, which perhaps rather served to lessen
the dash of their attack, insomuch as, understanding
nothing about 'Hie sights," their
N 2

fire was comparatively innocuous, and not
so much to be dreaded as the terrible
assegais at close quarters. Still, mowed
down though they were, they advanced with
unflinching resolution ; reckless of the deadly
rifle fire that decimated them or of the
murderous discharges of grape poured in
from the guns at the salient, they fought
their way determinedly up to the waggons,
and sent a very cloud of assegais among the
defenders. So determined were their rushes
that more than once a small party obtained
a footing within the camp, only however to
cherish to a man.

It was in one of these rushes that Charlie
Grafton, who, at the head of some of his
dismounted dragoons, had been doing good
service on the like occasions, came perilously
near making an end of it. Having emptied
his revolver he threw himself, sabre in
hand, in front of a gigantic chief who was

leading the assault ; as he made a furious
lunge at his foe his foot slipped, and the
Zulu, taking advantage of the accident,
sprang within his guard, and, quick as
lightning, dashed him to the ground ;
shortening his assegai, with a fierce yell,
he was about to drive it through the prostrate
man when Maurice's sabre swung
keenly through the air, and the Zulu fell
dead over his victim, with a fearful sword-cut
in the head. But his followers closed
rapidly in upon Enderby, and, ere his own
people could interfere, Maurice fell, bleeding
and prostrate, across the body of his late
antagonist. A few minutes and the luckless
Zulus had paid the penalty of their brief
success, and the victors had a few minutes'
time in which to reckon up their losses.

'' This one's got it bad," exclaimed a
bluff infantry serjeant as he picked up
Maurice and drew him clear of the little

ring of killed and wounded; ^^it's the
gentleman who came in from Etshowe;
fetch a doctor here some of you ; he's grit,
every inch of him, and has been right in the
thick of it all along."

'' Confound it ! Pull this black brute
off the top of me, can't you ? " exclaimed
a voice somewhat impatiently from close
beside them.

'^ Hurrah, lads ! " cried a stalwart young
trooper, as, with the assistance of a comrade,
he tumbled the dead chief quickly on one
side; 'sit's Mr. Grafton. May I never, sir,
but I thought you was done. I could have
sworn I saw that big Zulu send his spear
right through you ! "

'^ Done be d d ! " replied Charlie

Grrafton, shaking himself very much after
the manner of a small dog who has been
tumbled over in the roadside by a bigger
of his species; ^^ not but what I should

have been if Mr. Enderby hadn't been a
little quicker to chip in on my side than
you fellows were. Where is he ? "

^' He's here, sir," replied the serjeant;
'' but I doubt he's badly hurt."

'^ By Jove ! I hope not," retorted Charlie.

^^He saved me, and I trust but here

comes the doctor."

Young Grafton was a little fellow gifted
with unbounded animal spirits, unflinching
pluck, and untiring go. Foremost in every
description of sport, and equally keen when
it came to campaigning, regarding a
*' crumpled '' after a jackal, a wet bivouac, a
wearisome march, and a hard day's fighting,
as all in the day's work, and things to be
rather laughed at than otherwise. The
'' irrepressible sub." as his brother officers
had christened this vivacious young gentleman,
was an immense favourite in his regiment.
The men of his troop, whom lie was

accustomed to address in a polite slang of
his own, not in the least warranted by Her
Majesty's regulations, would do anything
for him, although they could never quite
refrain from grinning when he pitched into
them in his racy vernacular, and they were
most unmistakeably glad now that 'little
cheeky'* as they called him, had not come
to grief.

Charlie Grrafton is silent enough though
now. Por once his voluble tongue is stilled,
and he anxiously awaits what the doctor has
to say about this new friend of only some
few hours ago. Maurice lies very still ; his
face pale, and the blood wells fitfully from
the wound in his side. Quick as thought
the keen surgical scissors rip open his patrol
jacket. The surgeon takes a sponge, and
gently wipes away the blood.

'^ An ugly wound," he mutters, ^^ but, as

far as I can judge, there is no internal
hemorrhages''

"Do you think he'll live?" inquired
Grafton, anxiously.

echard to say as yet," replied the surgeon,
^^ but it doesn't look to me at all a hopeless
case. Carry him across to the hospital-waggon
at once and then I must set to work
to stanch this bleeding. By his looks he
should have youth and a good constitution
on his side, and that goes for a good deal."

For more than an hour did the Zulus persist
in their assault. At last they could
stand the punishment so relentlessly dealt
out to them no longer, and retired in sullen
disorder. No attempt was made to pursue
them, and when the day broke the thickly
strewn dead showed how terrible the carnage
had been, and with what gallantry and
recklessness of life the assault had been persisted
in. There had been fierce hand-to-hand

fighting outside the laager, and the
relieving column could boast no bloodless
victory. One of the most popular chiefs of
the rifles had fallen while cheering his battalion
to victory, and several officers of lower
rank, to say nothing of the rank and file,
attested to the severity of the struggle.

As the sun rose high in the heavens the
h(3liograph from Etshowe flashed congratulations
on the victory, which the garrison had
already rightly interpreted from the steady
and persistent firing.

'^ The battle's over'' said the Etshowe
commandant, who was anxiously watching
from his ramparts the angry flashes of the
guns. '^ No savages that ever were could have
succeeded against such a continuous roll of
musketry as that. The Zulus, gentlemen,
will trouble us no longer."

CHAPTER XII.

THE NEWS COMES HOME.

Bessie had retired to Tunnleton to spend
her temporary widowhood. It was near
London and she could count now upon a
few staunch friends there; Greneral Shrewster,
the Chyltons, and especially the
Molecombes, could all be reckoned upon to
welcome her kindly. The Praun faction
had hardly done rubbing their hands and
chuckling over Maurice's Ascot misfortunes
when they were staggered by the intelligence

that he had started as a volunteer in
the Zulu war, and, though the veterans at
first pooh-poohed the notion and declared
that more useless lumber than volunteers,
who knew nothing of their duties, never
hampered a general, yet they were rather
put down on this point by one of their own
caste. Shrewster had had a turn at the
Cape during the Kaffir War and therefore
could speak with some authority upon present
affairs in Zululand.

^' It's all very well to call them live
lumber, Praun, but I tell you that any
active young fellow who can ride, has a
stout heart, a keen pair of eyes, and brains
in his head, is well worth his salt out there.
I'd ask for nothing better than three or
four hundred such fellows as Maurice
Enderby to mould into a regiment of
irregular horse. They'd be rare scouts at the
end of a few months, and, though roughish

troopers to look at and of no use opposed
to regulars, yet they'd be a valuable contingent
in cutting up barbarians like the
Zulus."

That the peppery Praun should dissent
from this opinion need scarcely be observed,
but then he disagreed with most people's,
and even at times turned round upon himself.
Still, General Shrewster was a man
entitled to speak with authority ; he had
seen, in his time, more hard fighting than
either Generals Maddox or Praun could lay
claim to, and Tunnleton, as a rule, stood
a little in awe of his quiet, self-possessed
manner.

As for Bessie, hers was the fate of all
women linked to the brethren of the sword.
Great Britain, like ancient Rome, is embroiled
by perpetual wars. There is always hot
water simmering in some of our numerous
dependencies ; a few lives are lost, and we

hardly heed it, it is only when the simmer
becomes a boil and the fingers of the cooks
who are managing our affairs get grievously
burnt, in short when disaster overtakes us
and we hurry out all the available troops we
can lay our hands on to avenge our outraged
authority, that we begin to recognise
we are really at war. Bessie's fate was in
one respect hard. Her husband was under
no orders but had proceeded to the banks of
the Tugela of his own free will, and Maurice
in this had been guided altogether by General
Shrewster's advice.

The great thing, my dear Enderby, is to
be early in the field. Buy such kit as you
think desirable, I should suggest the following,"
and here followed a list of articles such
as from his former experience General
Shrewster thought might be found useful. '' I
will forward you two or three letters of introduction
to old friends of mine in high

position at the front. I am sure they will
advance your views and give you every
chance. Luck, and your own right hand,
must do the rests

far Maurice's luck seemed to have terminated
with an assegai . through his ribs,
but this news had not as yet reached Tunnel


That the many warriors at the club
followed the campaign with close interest
may be easily imagined, and if there was
one thing irritated these critics it was the
tardiness with which the disaster of Isandhl-
want was being avenged. They were loud
in their condemnation, of the military chief
out there, and in this respect they differed
but little from the press and the rest of the
country. The war indeed was beginning to
assume proportions in the eyes of the public
to which it was by no means entitled, and
that the enemy, though numerous and after

their fashion disciplined, were unskilled in
the use of the rifle and destitute of artillery-ran
some danger of being forgotten. Our
leaders out there were no doubt in some
measure afraid to risk their prestige till reinforcements
should make success a matter
beyond doubt.

At length came home intelligence of the
relief of Etshowe, and a brief account of the
fierce night-attack on the relieving column
by the Zulu army which had immediately
preceded it.

Bessie had good reason to believe that her
husband was shut up in that fort. She knew
that he had joined number one column, that he
had been taken, as he himself described it, as
half orderly, half aide-de-camp, by the officer
commanding that force, who was an old friend
of General Shrewster's. From himself she had
received no letters since, but it was natural
to suppose that he had shared the fate of

those with whom his lot was thrown. It had
taken much to reconcile her to his change
of profession, but she had schooled herself toit
at last, even to the fact that his only
possibility of entering the army was by
the way of active service. Even that did
not quite come home to her until it came to
the saying '^ good-bye," and then poor
Bessie gave way utterly. Still he had promised
to write frequently, and that he should
be in a position in which it would be impossible
to keep his word was a thing she
had never dreamt of. At first when his
letters ceased she felt sure something must
have happened to him ; but then General
Shrewster pointed out to her that there was
no post running from Etshowe, and that till
it was relieved it was impossible she could
hear.

But by-and-by came fuller details — the
graphic account of the battle almost within

VOL. III. o

sight of Etshowe — how want of food was
beginning to stare the garrison in the face,
and that in short, had its relief been much
longer delayed, its defenders would have had
nothing for it but to sell their lives as dearly
as they could. There was a long roll of the
casualties which had taken place during the
siege, and also a list of the killed and
wounded of the relieving force and in
neither of these was any mention made of
Maurice Enderby.

Besides his wife and his friends there was
another person much dismayed at hearing
nothing of Maurice, to wit, the impalpable
WE, who controlled a leading London
journal.

The fresh brilliant letters from ^'Our Own
Correspondent in Zululand" had just arrested
public attention, when, to the editorial disgust,
they suddenly ceased. They had not
much doubt at the office of the Telegraph

as to what had become of their correspondent
; but then, as the editor testily remarked —

'^ That's the worst of these young hands.
Freshness and real power of description do
not compensate for their ignorance of their
duties as journalists on the war-path. His
first duty," continued this enthusiast, " is to
his paper ; his queen and his country must
for the time be a secondary consideration,
and especially should he be careful to avoid
getting shut up in such places as Etshowe,
A correspondent inside such a city as
Paris may be doing good work, but what
can there be to tell about the siege of a mere
frontier fort ? "

Many a mail was destined to pass before
the ruler of the Telegraph received another
letter from Maurice Enderby,

Bessie's first news of her husband came
from Bob Grafton. She was astonished one
morning by his unexpected arrival,
o2

^' I make no apology," he exclaimed, ^^for
darting in upon you at this early hour, but
the fact is I am down in the neighbourhood
for a few days, and have come to hear the
latest news of Maurice."

'' I am very very anxious about him, Mr.
Grafton," she rejoined ; ^^ I have heard
nothing from him since, I presume, he was
shut up in Etshowe ; and, though it is now
relieved, he is still silent. His name, thank
heaven ! is not 'mentioned among the killed
and wounded. You are staying at Bridge
Court, I suppose ? "

^^ Just so'' replied Grafton. He was not,
but he did not wish Mrs. Enderby to know
that he had travelled down from the north
expressly to tell her of her husband's mischance.
^^I can't help thinking, Mrs.
Enderby," he continued, '' that my news of
Maurice may be later than yours. You
don't seem to be aware how he has distinguished

himself. I had a letter the other
day from my brother Charlie. As you know,
he is a horse-soldier in those parts, and
oddly enough has come across your husband ;
in short, Charlie is indebted to him for his
life."

'' His life ! Your brother ! To Maurice !
Pray explain, Mr. Grafton," and Bessie's
big brown eyes glistened with excitement.

^'The shortest way is to read you Charlie's
letter," replied Grafton, '^ always premising
that Charlie, though peculiar in his phraseology,
is accurate in the main. He is a
sanguine young beggar, and takes life's
croppers pretty lightly — now for his letter."

^* Dear Bob,

If you're not anxious you ought to be
about how I am getting on in these parts,
and it will soothe your agitated feelings to
know that my scalp is not as yet whitening
in a Zulu lodge. I don't know that he

cared about my scalp, but a very long Zulu
most decidedly went for my midriff the
other day, and, but for your old friend
Maurice Enderby, would have probably
extinguished one of the dawning lights of
the British army. By Jove ! that fellow's
born to good luck. He's done a thing that
has set everyone's tongue wagging. It
seems they were getting rather hard up for
grub in Etshowe, and, not being able to
understand our signals, they gazetted Enderby
honorary postman and sent him forth
to tell us to ^ hurry up.' Well ! dashed if
he didn't ride clean through the Zulu army,
and come ose with only the loss of his horse.
It was a plucky thing to do, no doubt ; and
he showed plenty of head and judgment in
doing it, but it was luck after all that pulled
him through. Of course, a man who started
with half the 'Wandering Nun' as a wedding
gift is bound to throw sixes. He had

one or two turns up with the Zulus on his
way, and, from the little he has said about
his ride, they were bad for the Zulus.
However, poor fellow, just now he has
tliTown deuce ace.

I must tell you how it was, Bob —
Enderby told us when he came in, that the
Zulus were swarming between us and
Etshowe ; and that we weren't likely to get
there without a fight. Well, we couldn't
bring 'em to book all that morning. They
kept on retreating slowly before us ; and,
at last, our general made up his mind to
halt for the night and have it out with them
the next morning. A little before daybreak
they came on like wolves ; and, although
we rolled them over in scores before they
could close, they weren't to be denied. A
few of them broke into our laager four or
five times, and it was in stopping one of
these rushes that your distinguished brother

nearly came to grief. He was too big, Bob,
and I ought to have left him to some one
nearer his own weight ; but, in spite of the
lickings I used to get at school, I always
pique myself upon my science, and thought
I could pink the fellow before he could close.
That was not destined to be decided, for my
foot slipped, and before I knew where I was
I was dashed to the ground, saw a spear
gleam high in the air, and felt that I was
about to be spitted like a cockchafer, when
Maurice suddenly chipped in with his sabre,
and most obligingly dropped my big friend
on the top of me. Being undermost, I saw
no more, but conclude it was a sharp and
merry mill while it lasted. When it ended,
I am sorry to say, poor Enderby was at the
top of the heap, having received a very awkward
poke in the ribs from one of our black
entertainers.

Joking apart, I am sorry to say that

Enderby is seriously wounded. Remember,
the doctors by no means say that he will not
pull through, but make no disguise about his
situation being critical. We have brought
him on to Etshowe, where he'll have to stay
for the present, but I suppose they'll send
him down to Marietzburg as soon as they
can move him."

Bessie listened in rajDt attention as Grafton
read, her eyes sparkled and her cheeks
flushed at the accounts of Maurice's ride,
only to turn pale as death as the next few
lines bore record of his being struck down.

^^ Wounded ! " she exclaimed, in a low
tone, in a critical state. ^' I must go to him ;
Mr. Grrafton you must help me in this. As
Maurice's dearest friend you will, won't you ?
Where is it they are taking him ? Marie —
Marietzburg. I must go there, and, oh ! my
God, if I should arrive too late," and here
her sobs choked Bessie's utterance.

Like most men, there was nothing discomposed
Bob Grafton more than a woman's
tears, and it was in somewhat clumsy fashion
he set himself to console the stricken woman
before him.

'^ Of course I'll help you, Mrs. Enderby,
but you mustn't take that view of it. Men
get seriously hurt on these occasions no
doubt, but most of them recover and in a
marvellously short time too. By the time
you reach Marietzburg you will find the only
thing the matter with Maurice will be that
he cannot get enough to eat. Your convalescents
are always very cormorants."

^' Grot grant it may be so'' said Bessie,
smiling sadly through her tears. ^^ 1 shall
trust every thing to you, and you'll lose no
time, will you ?"

^' I'm off to town by the next train'' said
Grafton, '^ to take your passage, if possible,
in the next ship that sails. Make your preparations

at once so as to be in readiness to
join me in London as soon as I write to
you; and now, for the present, good-bye''

"By Jove!" thought Grafton, ''1 do
hope Maurice is all right. It would be an
awful thing for this poor little woman if
she should get up to Marietzburg only to find
that her husband is dead and she left all
alone in the world," and, looking more
serious than was his wont, Grafton made
his way rapidly to the station.

CHAPTER XIII.

CONVALESCENCE.

The sun is pouring down upon the dusty
streets of Marietzburg ; the queer little
colonial town is swarming with a tumultuous,
perspiring crowd, wanting apparently
everything. In busy search of accommodation
for man or beast, of food, of tobacco,
and of strong waters ; much curiosity manifested,
indeed, about this latter, as the
military authorities have interposed some
restrictions on their sale. Bluff teamsters.

with their heavy ox-waggons laden with
provisions, wearily working their way to
the front ; commissariat officers vainly endeavouring
to hurry them forward ; soldiers
striving to discover billets that only exist
in their imagination ; officers in charge of
them hurrying here and there in the endeavour
to keep these tired sheep in hand,
and also to feed them ; a reek of tobacco,
a buzz of language more pungent than
classical, strange oaths, with a strong flavour
of Dutch in them, and athletic blacks
lounging about clothed in a sparse caricature
of European costume. Such constitute the
crowd that throng the streets of Marietzburg
on this summer day. It is much the same
as might be written of most towns of which
the supplies of an army were being hurried
to the front.

For the chiefs of the Capo had been
spurred to extra exertion by the recent

receipt of telegraph messages from their
friends at home. The great democracy of
England had risen in its wrath, like that of
Athens of old, or like that later sterner democracy
which in its death struggle of nearly
a quarter of a century ago changed its
generals pretty nearly as soon as they were
beaten. There was no more singular feature
in the gigantic civil war in America than
the rapidity with which the Northern States
discarded their unsuccessful leaders. In like
manner our military chiefs in Zululand were
told by their friends in England that their
successors were on their way, that the public
were weary of their inactivity, that the
English people in these days of telegraphs
were impatient of reverses to their arms,
unless speedily avenged. It was rumoured
that a wire had come to the English general
from a distinguished relative to this effect —
*' Fight! above all fight! You'd better

take a licking than continue this strategy,
which is jeered at as an armed neutrality.''^

That Sir Garnet Wolsey and a band of
his favoured henchmen were on their way
was well-known in the colony. Already the
war correspondents had pronounced Zulu-land
the grave of military reputations ; one
and all, from the general down to the junior
brigadier, felt that it was incumbent to
strike a fatal blow before the new men came
upon the scene. The waves favoured them,
and, thanks to the suif at Durban, the victory
of Ulundi took place in time to rehabilitate
many a bespattered military name.

At a window on the first floor of a sort of
half villa, half farm-house in the suburbs,
looking out over the burnt-up rolling prairie
ground, sat Maurice Enderby. The pale
face and sunken eyes showed that it had
gone hard with him, and the thick blackbeard
that now garnished his chin would

have made the good people of Tunnleton
stare at their late curate. Not that the
brethren of the surplice by any means
eschew beard and moustache in these days,
but Tunnleton was an old-world place full of
old-world prejudices, and about a quarter of
a century behind the times, and one of its
axioms was that its divines should be clean-shaved.
Maurice is chafing terribly at his
enforced idleness. He knows that he has
distinguished himself, but he knows equally
well that, if the first step in life is to attract
the eyes of the chiefs of your vocation, the
second is to keep yourself constantly before
them. But no — the doctor says it will be
six good weeks before he will be able to take
the saddle again ; and, what is worse, he
feels that it is true.

A light step behind him arrests his attention,
and Bessie glides quietly to his side
with a tray containing nourishment of some

kind. He looks fondly up at her as he
says —

^^Ah, Bess! if it hadn't been for your
nursing I don't think I should have pulled
through ; and, though I fret here horribly
at my enforced idleness, still I don't know
if I was well tomorrow what I am todo."


'' Do ? " she replied, though her voice
shook and her lips quivered as she said it.
'^ You would rejoin your old chief, of
course."

^' Yes, no doubt that is what I ought to do
from one point of view; but what's to
become of you ? "

Me ? " replied Bessie, with a rather
forced laugh; 'soh, I shall stop here, with
my heart in my mouth, so as to be all
ready when my services are required again''
Maurice looked at her for a moment, and
then said,

VOL. III. p

^^ Ah, Bessie, Bessie, you will never make
a soldier's wife."

'^ I don't know about that," replied
Bessie, as the tears welled up in her eyes ;
'^ I don't think I have made a very bad
beginning. I made what you call a forced
march out here, and even the doctor says
I am a capable nurse."

'^ Capable nurse ! " exclaimed Maurice,
'^ I should think you were indeed. Why the
doctor told me the other day that I owed
my life to your unceasing vigilance."

^^ I did my best," she replied meekly,
^^but, ah, Maurice, after snatching you
from the very jaws of death can you wonder
that the brine comes into my eyes at the
idea of your going to the front again ? Stop,
let me finish ! " she continued, as he was
about to speak ; ^^ do not think that I wish
to dissuade you from it. We made a false
start, but you have now begun a new

career, and I know that if a soldier is to
make his mark in his profession he must
not neglect his opportunities."

^^ Spoken like a sensible little woman,"
he rejoined, ^^ and you'll promise "

^^Not to be more foolish than I can help,"
she interrupted ; '^ but, Maurice, I cannot
be a Spartan matron, and am afraid I shall
always cry a little when you go forth to
battle."

^^Pooh!" he said, laughing, 'you must
look upon me as insured. I have been hit
once, and the odds are they won't hit me
again."

^' There's very little consolation in that,"
she replied, smiling, 'but one comfort is,
that you're not fit to start yet, and it is
possible all this may be over before you
are in the saddle again''

And if it is," said Maurice, a little

bitterly, ^'I shall have come all this way
p 2

for nothing — and I know now Shrewster
was right : I have the makings of a decent
dragoon in me."

'well crowed, Mr. Enderby," said a
voice from the doorway; ^' when men feel
that way they are bad to kill, and I'm
thinking ye'll do now, but, as for making a
decent dragoon, I'd me doubts as to your
ever doing that some few weeks back. Ah,
Mrs. Enderby, your patient's a credit to
you ! Feed him, ma'am, feed him with flesh,
fowl, and good red wine. All we've got
to do now is to re-make the blood the Zulus
let out."

'well, Dr. Gabbet," said Bessie, 'lie
can't complain about that, and he is becoming
now a capital patient, for he's
always ready to eat."

'^ It's the way with them all, ma'am ;
they're always anxious to make up for the
time they lost during the fever ; but you'll

be asking me for news ; they are all playing
now the game of catch who catch can.
There's the general-commanding doing all
he can to get up to Ulmidi before Sir Garnet
Wolsey can join him ; there's Sir Garnet
doing all he knows to join him before he
gets up to Ulundi ; and here's Cetewayo
doing all he knows to be ' not at-home ' to
either of them."

'' And how will it all end ? " asked Maurice,
laughing.

^* Well, the deuce a one of them knows!
It'll be bad for Sir Garnet if he don't catch
'em, it'll be worse for Thesiger if he is
caught, and it'll be worst of all for Cetewayo
when they happen to catch him ; there yeare,
sir, and there's never another man in
the colony could have explained the position
of affairs so tersely or so clearly as Mick
Gabbet, though it's myself says so."

'^ But as soon as they have got Ulundi

it'll be all over, doctor, eh ? " said Mrs.
Enderby.

'' Tear an' ages, ma'am, don't think so
manly of the natives ! They're like me
own countrymen, they can't get on without
their diversions, and, as soon as the fighting's
done in one place, they just set it
going again in another. There's a broth
of a boy called Sikukuni who has been
trailing his coat these last three years, and
we have to polish him off as soon as we
have time to do so."

^'Ah, that's the fellow we've never succeeded
in doing anything with. He's got
a tremendous stronghold of his own, I
believe, hasn't he ? "

That's just it," said the doctor, with a
wink ; " we've taken out a judgment summons
and tried to put in a ^ man-prepossession
' a good many times, but he's as hard
to deal with as a Galway squire ; and now

I'm off. Feed him up, Mrs. Enderby, feed
him up, and he'll soon be strong on his
legs again."

It was dull work this convalescence at
Marietzburg, but Maurice shook off his
weariness considerably when Dr. Gabbet
at length sanctioned his going for a short
afternoon ride. From that out the horses
came round every afternoon, and, accompanied
by Bessie, Maurice indulged in a
good canter when the sun began to sink.

And now came the news of the fierce fight
of Ulundi, where the Zulus fought their
last battle in defence of their capital. That
their defeat was crushing, their power
broke, their army dispersed, and their king
a fugitive, was speedily apparent as the
sequence of this victory. Carping critics
urged that it might have been done before,
and there were cynics who chuckled with
amusement because for once Sir Garnet had

been too late. But, although the Zulus
were effectually conquered, there was plenty
of work to be done in restoring order
through the land, and it was said pretty
openly that our own troops, flushed with
their triumphs and successful campaign, had
not yet been able to divest themselves of
the idea that they were in an enemy's
country, and, though they had recrossed
the Tugela, were levying supplies with a
high hand. There were rumours, too, of
coming troubles in the Transvaal. The
Boers, who had never been satisfied with
annexation, were holding mass-meetings,
at which the speakers once more claimed
their independence. Sikukuni, with whom
we had been carrying on a desultory war
for months, was getting more restless and
encroaching than usual. This marauder,
who was a sort of South African Rob Roy,
displayed laudable impartiality in his raids.

Cattle-lifting was apparently his chief industry,
and whether they were the cattle of
Boers or British owners he never troubled
his head to consider. The Boers had striven
vainly to cope with him, and all attempts
on our part to put him down had so far
failed chiefly from the insufficiency of the
force employed against him. Every available
soldier had been wanted in Zululand,
and, though the officer in charge of this
suppression had once actually led his small
force within a mile of Sikukuni's citadel, yet
that pest of South Africa, a murrain amongst
the horses, had compelled him to retire.
The battle of Ulundi had set free the
greater part of the army in Zululand, and
Sir Garnet now found himself able to turn
his attention to these minor matters, and it
was not likely that the chastisement of the
marauding Sikukuni would be overlooked.
By this time Maurice was thoroughly

restored, and, though he looked a bit pulled
down, declared he was as good a man as
ever. He had written to his old chief, reported
himself quite fit for service, and
begging to be allowed to resume his former
post on his personal staff, and in due time
received a letter which occasioned him no
little elation.
^^ Deal Enderby " — it ran —

^' I am delighted to hear you are all right
again. When I last saw you outside
Etshowe the doctors spoke gravely of your
case, and I was sorry to hear that you had
a bad attack of fever consequent on your
wound afterwards. However I am truly
glad that you are at last safe out of the
wood. I should be only too glad to have
you back with me, but it is all over up here.
Ulundi completely crushed the Zulu nation,
at all events for the time. The sole thing
doing is the pursuit of Cetewayo, and.

though no doubt you would, ask nothing
better, we have dozens of volunteers for that
work, and he will probably be captured
before you could possibly arrive here. No ;
I can do better for you than that ; the man
who cut his way through the Zulu army is
never likely to want employment. I have
managed to get you transferred to General
W.'s staff, who will be shortly settling with
that very troublesome chief Sikukuni. He
is just the man to appreciate a bit of dash
like yours, and you need never fear you
won't see fighting under him ; he revels in
it, and will work his brigade into the thick
of it somehow.

^' Make your way to him at once ; he's
somewhere now, I think, in the neighbourhood
of Luneberg ; but he is not the man to
dawdle when he has got his force together.

'^ Good-bye, I wish you every luck.

^^ Yours sincerely, F. P."

^'Your name is mentioned in despatches,
and I am glad to say your exploit thought
highly of by every one."

At this moment Bessie entered the room.
One glance at her husband's delighted face,
another at the letter he held in his hand, told
her all. She knew that she had again to
wish him good-bye.

CHAPTER XIV.

TUNNLETON CHANGES ITS OPINION.

TuNNLETON was much excited when the
story of Maurice's exploit appeared in the
papers. That he had gone out as a volunteer
to Zululand and that he had been
severely wounded, Tunnleton was aware ;
that Mrs. Enderby had started at two or
three days' notice for the purpose of nursing
her husband was also currently known ; but
Bessie had seen but two or three of her intimate
friends before leaving, and, except

General Shrewster and Edith Mclecombe,
nobody had heard the details contained in
Grafton's letters. But Maurice's brother
correspondents were proud to put on record
such a deed of daring — achieved, too, by one
of their guild. Individual heroism is always
telling in a war correspondent's letter, and it
really was extraordinary the manner in
which Maurice had made his way through
the Zulus.

There is a great deal of the Pumblechook
element about in this world ! and Tunnleton,
which not a year ago had cast him out from
among them, now almost claimed Enderby
as a fellow-citizen. It is astonishing when
you have succeeded in this world the number
of people who are always convinced you
^^ had it in you." It is true they had kept
this knowledge carefully to themselves in
the early part of your career, but they remind
you of it now you have achieved fame,

all the oftener, it is to be presumed, by way
of making up for lost time. Tunnleton has
quite made its mind now to regard Maurice
as one of her own sons, and people vie with
each other in exchanging reminiscences of
the ex-curate's sayings and doings while
resident amongst them. Although a reticent
man, General Shrewster could not refrain
from crowing a little over the exploits of
his protege.

^^ Aha! Prawns' he exclaimed, ^^ didn't I
always tell you young Enderby would make
a rattling dragoon ? "

^' I don't know that you did," snapped
that irascible warrior, '^ but I am sure that
I never said anything to the contrary. I
only said that he was guilty of great impropriety
of conduct as a curate. There are
people'' he continued snappishly, '^ who
don't see any harm in gambling and
horse-racing — I do," and to avoid rejoinder

General Praun left the club morning-room a
little precipitately.

It soon further leaked out that the spirited
letters of some few weeks back in the Telegraph
were from the pen of the dashing
young volunteer, who had carried the
message from Etshowe, and then the
Eeverend Mr. Jarrow could no longer contain
himself. The rector positively glowed
with enthusiasm, and in the course of two or
three days had thoroughly persuaded himself
that he had no little to do with their
composition.

*^ Excellent, sir, so full of fire and vigour.
I am proud to think that I first guided his
steps in the path of literature ; I looked over
his early efforts when he was here and gave
him the benefit of my advice and suggestions;!
lent him the ' Verity Letters' to read, and I don't
know — now does it strike you? — but it seems
to me that he caught my style a good deal.

Now these letters in the Telegraph are
characterised by a good deal of that vigorous
thought and power of sarcasm which you
may have observed in my own poor efforts'
and the mock humility that characterised
the rector as he uttered the concluding
words was beautiful to witness.

On one point Tunnleton was unanimous,
and that was, in their anxiety to hear tidings
of the wounded man. Even those whose
tongues had been most bitter against him were
desirous to hear he was doing well. There
could be no doubt he had done something
of which his countrymen might well be proud,
and most of us sink our dislikes when their
object has come to grief on the battle-field.

A man who, rather to his astonishment,
found himself suddenly a person of considerable
importance in Tunnleton was Bob
Grafton ; he was staying for a few days, after
his wont, at Bridge Court, and he walked

VOL. III. Q

into Tunnleton two or three times to call on
Miss Molecombe, General Shrewster, and
two or three other friends he had made of
late in the little town. He had often walked
in from Bridge Court before, and Tunnleton
scarcely heeded his presence, in fact barely
knew him by sight. But now, much to his
surprise, he was constantly stopped by
people, strangers to him, anxious to know if
he had any news of Mr. Enderby. The
first news of Maurice's mischance had come
from him, and Tunnleton very naturally
thought there was much likelihood of his
hearing again — and Tunnleton was right.

It was during his stay at Bridge Court
that the next news of Maurice came across
the sea, and the letter was once more
to Bob Grafton. This time it was Mrs,
Enderby who wrote. There was a brief
record of her journey out to begin with, and
what kindness she had received in making

her way up to Marietzburg ; low she had
found Maurice slowly struggling back to life
after a severe attack of fever \ how that he
was now almost himself again ; and, whether
they knew it or not in England, that he was
reckoned a hero out there.

'^ And now, Mr. Grafton," she continued,
*^ comes the terrible hardship of being a
soldier's wife. I have nursed him till his
step is as firm and his figure as erect as
ever it was ; and now he is once more going
to bid me good-bye. He has got what he
calls another chance, and I suppose he ought
to take it, but wee poor women know what
such chances are, and what a wailing the
result of them means to us. I shall bear it,
this time, worse than I did before, for the
evil I dreaded has already once befallen me,
and I shall tremble at the thought that it
may do so again. One comfort is, that this

time I shall be near at hand should he come

2

to barm. Tell General Shrewster that
Maurice is going with a column to beat up
Sikukuni's quarters. He is not exactly a
Zulus as far as I can make out, but seems to
be an independent freebooter who revels in
little wars on his own account ; at all events
he has been giving a deal of trouble, and,
so far, seems to have got the best of those
who have been despatched to bring him to
account. Good-bye. Love from us both
to all old friends, especially the Chyltons,
Edith Molecombe, and General Shrewster.
'' Sincerely yours,

^^ Bessie Enderby."
An idea flashed across Bob Grafton when
he had finished this epistle, and that was,
that he could not do better than call upon
Miss Molecombe and read her Mrs. Enderby's
letter. He had got rather into the
way of dropping into the banker's about
luncheon time of late, and the Misses

Balders rallied him not a little as to what
Wits the attraction in Tunnleton.

Another thing too that was absorbing a
good deal of Mr. Grafton's attention at this
time was the approaching Leger. It maybe
remembered that Grafton had made
arrangements on Maurice's behalf for the
Ascot settling. Enderby had let no time
grow under his feet, and a little more thana
week after that disastrous meeting had
sailed for the Cape. Hampton had readily
acquiesced in Grafton's offer, namely, of
taking nearly two-thirds of the debt, and
allowing the remainder to stand over for
some little time ; and it was to the big race
on Doncaster Moor that Grafton looked for
the recovery, so to speak, of those Ascot
losses. The 'wandering Nun" was a
strong favourite for that prize, and, as far
as Grafton could learn, was not only excessively
well, but had undergone a most satisfactory

preparation for the struggle on the
town moor. The mare, although it was
what is called the mares' month, was nota
favourite with the general public ; they
could not forget her defeat in the Oaks, or
understand her miserable display at Ascot.
But amongst the shrewdest men on the
turf she was a strong fancy, and there were
very few of them who did not back the
*' Wandering Nun " for the St. Leger.
Grafton himself was in this category, and
had taken a pretty little bet about the mare
at Goodwood.

However, putting his racing cares on one
side, Bob Grafton strolled on through 
until he arrived at the Molecombes'
house. Yes, Mrs. Molecombe was at home,
and he was shown into the drawing-room,
where he found Edith and her mother, and,
the first greetings over, at once proceeded
to read them Bessie's letter.

'' How very terrible for Mrs. Enderby ! "
said the banker's wife, as Bob Grafton concluded.
'^ If he is a hero, I declare I think
she is a heroine. Fancy her — poor thing !
she has no sooner cured her husband than
she is left alone in the midst of all that
bustle and turmoil to take care of herself."

^' It is rather rough," said Grrafton ; '' but
I don't see how Maurice could help it."

^' Of course he couldn't, and, though we
all wronged him, and told horrible stories
about him here — I was as bad as anybody
he has made us feel mean enough now.
As for Bessie, it is hard upon her," said
Edith, passionately 5 '^ but what woman,
worth the name of one, would not wish to
be within reach of her husband when she
knew he was carrying his life in his hand ! "

Grafton gazed at the girl with no little
admiration as she spoke. '' By Jove ! " he
thought, " how her face lights up when she

is moved, she looks quite handsome at this
moment." " Yes' he replied, 'That's all very
welij but it was a mistake Mrs. Enderby's
going out. It was no use attempting to
persuade her to stay here— go she would;
and all one could do was to make things
as smooth as possible."

^' I don't agree with you, Mr. Grafton ;
I think it is more than likely she saved her
husband's life''

'' I grant you that her nursing perhaps
contributed a good deal to his recovery,
but I have no doubt Maurice wishes now
that she was safe in Tunnleton. A mangoes
campaigning with a lighter heart when
he knows those dear to him are safely harboured."


shad I been in Mrs. Enderby's place,
I should have done as Mrs. Enderby has
done," replied Edith, defiantly.

'' Which by no means follows you would

have done what Mr. Enderby wished you,"
replied Bob, laughing.

'^ You're too bad, Mr. Grafton, and I'll
argue with you no more. How much longer
do j^ou remain at Bridge Court ? "

Only a few days, and then I go north
to attend the Doncaster meeting."

How I envy you ! " exclaimed Edith.
^^ How I did enjoy those two days at Ascot,
and I am sure you would have too, mania,
if you had only been there."

^' Rather too tiring work for me, my
dear, I should say from your description
of it," rejoined Mrs. Molecombe.

^'And what do you think about the Leger,
Mr. Grafton? " inquired Edith. '' My very
limited stock of knowledge concerning racing
has almost evaporated since Ascot ; but I do
know that the Leger is the big race of the
Doncaster Meeting."

'^ Ah ! I hope we are not going to have

such a terrible time as we had in June. I
have trusted our old friend ' The Wandering
Nun ' with my venture, and expect to see
her turn out a very different mare from
what she was at Ascot."

^^Ah! how nice it would be if the En-derby
were only safe back from the Cape,
and we were all going up to Yorkshire to
see Bessie's mare win. It makes me sad to
think about it' sighed Edith.

^^ And when Miss Molecombe takes to
such wild castle-building as that, I feel it is
time for me to go ; besides, I have told you

all mv news."

«/

^^ But we shall see you again before you
leave Bridge Court?" said Edith, as she rose
to say good-bye.

'eyes, most likely," replied Grafton.
'' Certainly, should I hear any more of
Maurice, though that is hardly probable''
And then Bob took his departure.

He had just reached the garden-gate when
he heard his name called two or three times.
Turning towards the direction from which
the voice came, he saw Miss Molecombe,
who had slipped out of one of the drawing-room
windows, hurrying to meet him. ^'Mr.
Grafton," she exclaimed, '^ one word before
you go. I really can't help it. You see it's
Bessie's mare, and it's only once in a way,
you know, and I must have five pounds on
it for the Leger. Will you do it for me ? "

'' Certainly," he replied, laughing. 'john
Madingley has much to answer for. His
Wandering Nun ' seems to have turned all
your heads, and developed the spirit of
gambling wherever it was latent. Maurice
first, and now you, Miss Molecombe. However,
I will do your bidding at once, and do
think this time we shall be victorious."

•* Thank you so much," replied Edith,
and, with a quick little nod of '* good-bye,"

she turned and walked back towards the
house.

'^ She's a rather nice girl that' remarked
Grafton to himself, as he trudged homewards,
'' and I've no doubt old Molecombe
can give her a very tidy bit of money if he
likes. What an escape she had from that
precious scoundrel Dick Madingley, if indeed
that be his name." And, singular enough,
before he had gone another half-mile that
point was destined to be cleared up for him.
As he passed the Tunnleton Club General
Shrewster was just coming out.

^* By Jove, Grafton I " he said, " have you
heard the news ? There's one of the cleverest
turf frauds you ever heard of just come to
light. A gang of fellows representing themselves
to be beating agents have got hold of
a French lady of title, and have swindled
her out of close upon thirty thousand pounds-they've
all two or three aliases, and

amongst them is one who for some time has
passed under the sobriquet of Richard
Madingley. Go in and buy an evening
paper as you pass the station, and you'll see
a brief summary of it, but tomorrow morning
we shall doubtless read a lengthy account
of it."

Grafton followed the general's advice, and
saw just enough to whet his curiosity.

CHAPTER XV.

THE LEGER.

When Grafton opened his paper the next
morning it was to read one of those astounding
stories which exemplify the boundless
credulity of human nature in the
pursuit of wealth. A plausible set of adventurers,
under the names of Below,
Crofton, & Co , had, by specious and persistent
advertising, seduced, doubtless,
numberless minnows into their net, but
they had at last hooked a big fish, and this

latter, in its agonies, promised to prove too
much for its captors. Messrs. Below,
Crofton, & Co. continually asserted in the
journals that they were in possession of
such extensive and valuable information
as made winning on the turf an absolute
certainty. They advertised more largely
in the foreign papers than in the English,
and at length attracted the attention of the
Comtesse de Mombel, an elderly French
lady with a passion for speculation. It did
not occur to the Comtesse that, under such
circumstances, Messrs. Bulow and Crofton
would probably work the gold-mine they
had discovered without calling in the
general public to help them. She appeared
to have blindly trusted these adventurers,
of whom she knew nothing, and it was not
till she had been actually mulcted of thirty
thousand pounds that she blenched, and
confided the story of her losses to an old

and trusted friend. He, being a man of
the world, immediately put himself in communication
with the French police ; but
Messrs. Bulow and Crofton were no 'prentice
hands, and had for some time anticipated
some such result as certain to follow the
plucking of the plumpest pigeon they had
ever had in their nets. They got wind of
that the authorities were on their track,
and at once transferred themselves across
the Channel, where their partners were
doing the best they could with the British
public. It seemed incredible how the
Comtesse could have been duped to the
extent she had, how she could have been
persuaded to lose sum after sum, but the
old lady was a thorough gambler at heart,
and knew what it was to fight the bank at
Monaco ; she was, however, vengeful in
her wrath, and, like a shrieking Maenad, now
that her eyes were opened to the way in

which she had been defrauded. She had
money still left, and did not mind spending
some of it to bring those who had robbed
her to justice. She hounded on the French
police, and they in their turn roused Scotland
Yard. Messrs. Bulow, Crofton, & Co.
found the pursuit grew hot ; they separated
and dispersed all over England ; but the
sleuth-hounds of the law were on their
trail ; one by one they were apprehended,
and were utterly astounded, when brought
before the magistrate, to find how exceedingly
well their biographies were known at
Scotland Yard. They mostly rejoiced in
aliases, and amongst them figured French,
alias Jackson, alias Madingley, alias Bushman.
^' Well'* said Grafton to himself, as he
threw down the paper, '' I have never
thought much of Mr. Richard Madingley, ashe
chose to call himself, looking upon him as
one of the outside ring ; but 1 certainly

VOL. III. R

should never have given him credit for
being capable of such a gigantic fraud as
this. However, the evidence so far goes to
show that he was quite one of the minor
actors in the drama ; but I should think the
whole lot are certain to be committed for
trial."

That the case excited extraordinary interest
in Tunnleton it is needless to say ;
and to many there it was a source of considerable
annoyance. Nobody, perhaps, felt
it more than the unfortunate Molecombes,
who were conscious of how narrowly they
had escaped connection with one of the
criminals. How narrowly Edith only knew,
and she grew hot with shame to think that
her name had ever been coupled with such
an one as Dick Madingley.

The papers all remarked on the plausible
manners of the prisoners, and pointed out
that they seemed to be of superior education.

Still Edith felt that, though she really had only
been imposed upon like many other people
in Tunnleton, yet she could not go about
while Richard Madingley's name was upon
everybody's lips.

Although Bob Grafton was again in
Tunnleton before his departure for the
north, he abstained from calling on the
Molecombes. He felt that the whole of this
exposure must be very annoying to Edith,
and that to meet one who, like himself, was
so thoroughly conversant with all the ins
and outs of Mr. Richard Madingley's career
would be only painful. He contented himself
with a brief note, in which he informed
her that he had obtained twenty pounds to
five for her about the 'wandering Nun" for
the Leger. It was a point more than the
odds, for they had grown very short of
late ; but man is weak, and, when the commission
is given him by a young and good.
r2

looking woman, is sure to return a liberal
price. Then Bob Grafton started for Yorkshire.
He heard lots of South African
gossip as he went through London. How
Ulundi had been fought, and how Thesiger
had promptly washed his hands of the whole
business, this victory having been vouchsafed
him; how there were many tangled skeins
yet to unravel ; and how the South African
business generally promised to keep our
people employed for some time to come.

He went to the War Office to try if he
could hear anything of Maurice, but, Enderby
being only a volunteer, they could give no
accurate information concerning him. Then
Grafton bethought himself of the '' Telegraph
" office, and there they told him that
their valued correspondent was quite himself
again, and once more on his way to the front.

But all this amounted to little more than
Mrs. Enderby 's letter had told him, so

Grafton, as he had promised, dropped
General Shrewster a line to say that he
could gather no further tidings of Maurice
in London.

When Grafton reached Doncaster he
found the Tykes in all the simmer of excitement
that the Leger always produces in that
somnolent little town. It wakes from its
slumbers for but this one week in the year,
and then, from the Salutation to the Shakespeare
siding, the assembled crowd eat, drink ,
and talk horse both day and night. Bed
must be a mockery to many enthusiasts.
What with watching the doings at the rooms
overnight ; what with watching the morning
gallops, attending the sale-ring before lunch,
and spending the afternoon on the town
moor, from the Monday till the big race is
over, the votaries of the turf know but little
rest.

The Yorkshiremen were all agog about

'' The Wandering Nun." She was a mare
trained in their own county, and they vowed
she looked fit to run for her life. She became
a hotter favourite every hour. All
Yorkshire bets, from the Lord Lieutenant of
the county to the porters of the Shakespeare
siding, and all Yorkshire was throwing in its
lot with John Madingley's mare.

There was a hum of applause as the mare
walked down the course preparatory to her
preliminary canter, and Grafton, who had
seen her in all her races, was fain to admit he
had never seen her in such condition before.
Her coat shone like satin, and she paced up
the course quite cool and collected, looking
proudly around as if to challenge any competitor
to try conclusions with her to-day,
while the winner of the Derby, who was
also backed for a large sum, was fretful, uneasy,
and lathered freely.

^^ If ever I saw a winner, that's one ! "

muttered Grafton. ^' I think, Miss Mole-combe,
you and I are going to win our
money this time."

'' I'll tak' anyone's three crowns to two the
mare wins," shouted a burly farmer within
a few yards of him.

As for the story of the race it is soon
told. Never was a Leger galloped in which
there were fewer vicissitudes — it might be
said, none. ^' The Wandering Nun " got
well o£f, lay over her field the whole way to
the Red House Turn, when she came away,
and, despite a resolute challenge by the
Derby winner half way up the straight, won
easily by a couple of lengths.

^^ It's come off handsomely this time''
muttered Bob. ' ' This will square up Maurice ;
it's bonnets for Miss Molecombe, or she can
go for a sealskin if she likes it better ; and
for myself, well, I shall enjoy the luxury of

betting the ring their own money back at
Newmarket."

He strolled into TattersalPs ring in the
course of the afternoon, when he fell across
Hampton.

*' Well, Mr. Grafton," exclaimed the bookmaker,
with a beaming face, '^ you've had
a good race of it no doubt."

every fair in my little way'' replied
Bob, ^< and you?"

'' A rare good 'un, sir," replied the bookmaker
; ''I was sure the summer form was all
wrong, and I took all the long shots about
The Wandering Nun ' I could lay my
hands on after she was beat at Ascot, and
covered my money, by laying it back at the
short odds they have been taking this week.
Any horse of Mr. Madingley's, you see,
sir, one knew would be run straight, and
that mare when she's right is the best of her

year, and she was about as fit to-day as ever
I saw one."

^^Yes," replied Grafton, ^•' and another
good winner on the race you'll be glad to
hear of is Mr. Enderby ; he is away in South
Africa, as no doubt you know, but I've no
doubt in the course of the next week or two
I shall be able to hand you over the balance
of his account."

'don't talk of that, sir," replied the
jubilant bookmaker. '^ When I read that
account in the papers of his ride through
all them Kafir fellows I'd have wiped
the slate with pleasure. Do me a favour,
Mr. Grafton. Just come right away now,
and drink his health coupled with * The
Wandering Nun's' in a glass of champagne."


And that afternoon, though he may be
destined perhaps never to know it, Maurice

Enderby's health was enthusiastically drunk
in the Grand Stand at Doncaster.

It was from General Shrewster Edith first
learnt of John Madingley's victory. He had
not known much of Miss Molecombe previously,
but had become interested in her
from the enthusiastic friendship she had developed
of late for the Enderbys. Edith
had gradually wormed out of Bessie before
she left how much she had owed to Maurice's
interference, and the girl's gratitude was
unbounded. Shrewster had taken a great
fancy to her ; and, like all men who are
choice in their friendships, was all the more
prized by those whom they took the trouble
to cultivate, and where he pleased there
were few men could make themselves more
agreeable than could the general. A well-read
man, who had lived much of his life
in the great London world, of which he had
never altogether lost touch, he had plenty

to say about pretty well everything and
everybody, and Edith Molecombe never
tired of sitting at the feet of Gamaliel.

The general was very pleased when the
result of the race became known in Tunnel
He liked to hear of his old friend
winning, and chuckled as he thought of what
a stake he would have won over it himself in
the old days when he used to bet so heavily.
He had given up all that sort of thing now
and was never seen upon a race-course, but
he still took the greatest interest in the
fortunes of his personal friends who still
continued their favourite pastime. Meeting
Miss Molecombe that afternoon, he told her
the news triumphantly, and was astonished
at that young lady's clapping her hands
and exclaiming,

'* I knew she would ; I felt she would.
Mr. Grafton said ' The Wandering Nun '
was sure to win."

'^ Well," replied the general, laughing,
'' I think Mr. Grafton is too old a hand to
express himself quite so positively, but I
suppose you won a lot of money ? "

I won twenty pounds, general'' replied
Edith ; '' Mr. Grafton made my bet for me.'

'rand this after your Ascot experiences ?
Mark me," continued the general, with
mock solemnity, 'the turf will be your
ruin ! "

'' Not this time, anyway," rejoined the
young lady, as she nodded a merry goodbye
and then tripped lightly on her way.

Ha, principal turf adviser to a young
lady ! A very comfortable appointment.
There's only one thing, Master Bob: remember
that racing often herds to matchmaking,
and, by Jove, if it does in your
case I shall say you've not done badly on
the turf'' and, with a smile at his own joke,
the general strolled homewards.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE BIVOUAC.

On the borderland abutting the Transvaal
and the Zulu country are bivouacked a large
force, concentrated with the immediate view
to the suppression of Sikukuni ; clearly time,
thinks Sir Garnet, that that defiant and
audacious maurauder should be brought to
his marrow-bones. While Cetewayo claimed
all our attention this chieftain had had
things a good deal his own way ; he had
thrashed the Boers, when they had gone out

against him, and, though we had once
worked our way within a mile of his citadel,
sickness, drought, and want of provisions had
compelled us to fall back, and the enterprising
Sikukuni had made that retreat very-bitter
to us, hanging on the trail of his invaders
with the pertinacity of a bull dog,
and making them feel for many a mile on
their way back that they had stirred up a
hornet's nest. But if settlement with Siku-
uni had been postponed the British authorities
had by no means forgotten his offending,
a pretty accurate record had been kept of his
raiding and plundering, and now the time
had come to close accounts with him.

Lounging round the bivouac fire, wrapped
in all the dreamy enjoyment of the evening
pipe, were three men lazily discussing the
prospects of the next two or three days,

^' Do you think he'll make a stand ? "
asked Maurice Enderby. '^ These fellows

can fight, we all know, but Sikukuni must
have heard all about the battle of Ulundi by
this time, and knows that Cetewayo is a
prisoner and the Zulu army a thing of the
past."

'' You needn't fret yourself on that point,"
replied a stout, thickset, little officer of the
Natal contingent. '^ I've been up here before,
and I'll tell you his citadel is a pretty hard
nut to crack. We had a good look at it last
time, though we had to retreat without
attempting it, but he hung on our skirts for
many a mile as we fell back, and made
things pretty lively for us. In fact it was
a case of desultory fighting for some days.
We shall have it of course this time ; we've
plenty of force and Sir Garnet means it, but
it'll be a hottish fight, you may take your
oath."

A tramp of horses' hoofs and the jingle of
a sabre caused all three men to raise themselves

on their elbows, and then a dragoon
jogged quietly into the fire-light, reined up
his horse, and exclaimed in easy nonchalant
tones,

'' Don't let me disturb you, gentlemen,
but perhaps you can tell me where Mr.
Enderby, on General Ws staff, is spending
his evening ? "

^^ Charles Grafton!" exclaimed Maurice,
as he sprang to his feet, and rushed eagerly
forward to shake hands with the new comer.
'^ What, have all your people got up ? "

^' Yes, old man, we've pushed along pretty
sharp to join you. Our colonel had no idea
of a row coming off without our being near
it. And, when you've driven the beggars
out of their earths, we shall give a very tidy
account of them in the open, you'll see.
Bless you, you can't think what a lot of 'emus
Lancers poked out of the grass after
Ulundi."

^' Well, we shall be very glad of your
help, but you must be dead tired ; jump off
and we'll do the best we can for you and
your horse."

Can't," replied young Grafton briefly ;
'^ I must go back to my own people, who
are about half-a-mile away. I only rode
on to bring you this letter and a couple of
newspapers from Bob, but if you've got
anything handy to drink I shall be very
glad to wash my mouth out," and, as he
spoke, the lancer drew the papers from his
sabretasche and handed them to Maurice.
^' Here's good news for you," he continued,
in Bob's letter, for ' The Wandering Nun '
won the Leger, and the papers are full of
a wonderful trial which he says will
interest you. Thanks," he added, as he
took the tumbler Maurice proffered him;
'^ and now I'm off. I shall sleep without
rocking as soon as we get littered down ;

VOL. III. s

we've been in the saddle a good many hours
to-day. Good-night, gentlemen," and, turning
his horse, the lancer disappeared in the
gloaming.

Having satisfied his companions' curiosity
as to who the newcomer was, and explained
that his appearance was the announcement
that the — th Lancers had joined the camp,
Maurice proceeded to open his letter. This
contained an account of the Leger, which
Bob described with all the gusto of an
enthusiast.

^' It will enable you," continued the
writer, ^^ to square up comfortably with
Hampton. I saw him at Doncaster and
told him as much, and he insisted on our
having a bottle of champagne to drink your
health in, and vowed that, after reading
the account of your famous ride from
Etshowe, he would willingly cry quits over
the whole affair. It was a hot afternoon,

Maurice ; he had had a good race and
^ wetted ' it, in fact he had attained to the
acme of geniality. As for your ride, sir,
you can't think how it has been talked of.
The usual version is, that you charged
straight through the whole Zulu army, and
people wrangle tremendously about the number
that you sabred with your own hand; I
only know that Shaw the Life Guardsman sinks
into utter insignificance when his holocaust
is compared with yours. As for Tunnleton
it has adopted you ; it claims you as a son ;
I am not sure there were not thoughts of
canonising you ; but you really may expect
the freedom of the town in a gold box when
you return ; as for the Reverend Mr.
Jarrow, he smiles sweetly and says he made
you, and on investigation I found it was
not in your military capacity but in your
literary one, for that you arc war correspondent
for the ' Ileliograpli ' has leaked
s 2

out, and your spirited letters have taken us
all much by surprise. Go on, my boy, and
prosper. Bear in mind, my dear Maurice,
that you have a wife, and therefore I don't
think, in justice to her, you ought to
fight the Zulu army again single-handed.
Excuse all my rubbish. Good-bye and God
bless you. We shall all be delighted to
take you by the hand again — the sooner
the better.

'^ Ever yours,

"Bob Grafton.

'' Kindest regards to Mrs. Enderby.

''By the way, I send you a couple of papers
that I think will interest you. They contain
a conclusion of the Eichard Madingley
romance

Ah ! they must wait for the morning,"
muttered Maurice. *' I am very glad that I
am now able to settle all my liabilities.
The sequel of that scamp Madingley 's

iniquities I am certainly curious to learn.
To think what a fool I allowed him to make
of me at Ascot. However, a good sleep is
the thing one wants now," and with that
Maurice rolled himself in his cloak, and
followed the example of his comrades.

The camp was astir betimes the next
morning. Every one knew that they were
within easy reach of Sikukuni's citadel, and
that they would attack that place as soon as
they reached it.

Maurice, who found himself an idle man
for the present, sat quietly down to read
his papers. It was with astonishment that
he perused the account of the great De
Mombel fraud, as the trial was headed. The
extraordinary credulity displayed by the
Comtesse made him think less harshly of his
own weakness. There is nmch consolation
in finding that we have fellows in our folly.

The police had tracked out the antecedents

of all the prisoners, and they were, without
exception, men of good education, and, in
the case of two of them, certainly endowed
with talents that should have guaranteed
them success in any honest calling. But,
naturally, the biography that interested
Maurice most was that of the soi disant
Richard Madingley.

He was the son of a well-to-do auctioneer
in a country town about four miles from
Bingwell, and consequently from a boy had
known the whole history of John Madingley.
As he grew up, his father associated him
with himself in the business, but Dick had
already taken to horse-racing and dissolute
courses. High words passed between father
and son in consequence of the way in which
the latter neglected his duties. His inattention,
in fact, was seriously affecting the
business, and the father soon found that it
was hopeless to leave anything to Dick. A

violent quarrel ensued between them at
last.

The young man was attending a neighbouring
race-meeting when he ought to
have been "' knocking down lots " in the big
room of the George Hotel. The father, a
stern, violent man, in his wrath told Dick
that he might get his living how and where
he pleased, but that he would maintain him
no longer in idleness. Dick had a bit of his
father's wayward temper, and left Bennington
the next day, and, wishing to sever all
connection with that place — for which he
had good and sufficient reasons of his own —
determined to change his name. While he
was about it he resolved to do it handsomely,
and it occurred to him that he could not do
better than assume the name of Madingley.
It was, the young man thought, a good
travelling title. He knew that John
Madingley rarely set foot upon a race course,

and that if he passed himself ois as a distant
relation of his he was not likely to meet
with exposure.

The police had traced Dick French's
career with marvellous accuracy. They had
followed him through various situations, in
all of which he would have done well could
he have made up his mind to stick to his
work ; but, just as he had lost the capital
berth of superintendent of the Bristol
restaurant, from perpetually requesting
leave to absent himself from his duties,
so had been the case in all his other employments.
There had never been anything
against him, and it was not till he had left
the Bristol that he had avowedly taken to
the turf, though that had been the chief
cause in reality of his so constantly absenting
himself from his employment.

But Maurice had no time to read more, for
the cavalry trumpets were sounding ^^boot

and saddle," and the ^ assembly" was ringing
through the infantry camp. The hive was
all astir, and about to move forward on most
malevolent intentions, bent upon stinging to
death Sikukuni and all his hoard.

Maurice called for his horse, and had just
mounted, when Charlie Grafton cantered up.

'' The game's about to begin," he cried,
^' and what a morning we've got for it.
We're ois at once, to cover your advance.
Our vedettes report that they touched the
enemy's outposts all night. He's all there,
and means business. What did you think
of the trial ? It killed a dull day or two for
us, I can tell you, on our way down, and
Bob says that you and he know something
of this French."

^* Yes," rejoined Maurice, ^'we know a
good deal about him, which I'll tell you
when we've time. It's too long a story to
enter upon just now."

''Yes/' laughed the other; '^ we have no
time for yarning just now ; I only cantered
over just to look at you by daylight before
we started — the work will be warm from all
I hear."

'' I fancy so," replied Maurice ; and the
two rode away in opposite directions.

It was a pretty sight — the advance that
clear autumn morning — the cavalry scouring
those big rolling plains far in advance, diverging
here and there on either flank to
make good bits of bush, or to peer round the
kopje which occasionally cropped up. The
enemy's skirmishers could be seen falling
back and firing before the steady advance of
our own people. At last they reach the
mouth of the defile, which led immediately
to Sikukuni's stronghold, and now the cavalry
were promptly called in. In that broken
ground which had now to be traversed,
commanded by those quaint masses of rock

and boulders, called in the language of the
country kopje, there was no opportunity
for the horsemen, and the infantry skirmishers
now spread out in a cloud in their
stead. They were no sooner well into the
defile than that the enemy meant a stubborn
resistance became a fact past all doubt.
Every one of these singular hills, running
many of them to some hundred feet in
height, were crowned with the enemy, who
kept up a sharp fire on the advancing
column, and only yielded their position
upon being fairly turned out by our skirmishers.


Steadily and persistently the force wound
its way through the defile, but the advance
was slower than had been anticipated. The
enemy's fixed determination was beyond all
praise. Not only did they fight every
kopje, but they disputed every boulder.
Science, and even perhaps numbers, were

against them ; but on the other hand the
country gave them great natural advantages
for defence, and they availed themselves of
it as dexterously as if led by a skilled
European. Stubbornly they resisted, unflinchingly
they fought, for every quarter of
a mile of that defile ; but the Anglo-saxon
won his way at last, and emerged within
sight of Sikukuni's citadel. Anxiously the
military chiefs bent their field-g] asses on
this famous stronghold, and there could be
no doubt that, should the resistance be as
stubborn as that through the 23ass which
they had just fought their way through, they
had a tolerably stiff job before them.

Something like a mile of open plain now
intervened between them and the place they
had come to capture, dotted by the skirmishers,
already half a mile ahead, and now
the guns, which had done good service inforcing
the passage, emerged from the defile,

and galloped sharply to the front, unlimbered,
and began to shell the fortress. It consisted
of a rocky hill some seven or eight hundred
feet high, honeycombed with caves, and
artificially terraced all the way up. At the
base of the mountain lay the kraal or town,
consisting of numberless groups of wattled
screen huts, surmounted in many instances
by palpitating and stone walls. From behind
each group of huts a direct or enfilade
fire could be poured on the attacking party,
while the huts themselves were thoroughly
commanded by the rocks above. The whole
town was encompassed by an impenetrable
hedge of prickly pear, the single entrance to
which was barricaded with timber, and led
through a mixed avenue of prickly pear and
cactus. A very ugly place indeed to get
into for an enemy without artillery, but that
certainly considerably curtailed its natural
defences, for it was quite possible to shell

the defenders out of their kraal before delivering
the attack. Nevertheless, the eaves,
the bush clothed crags, and the rocky terraces,
gave promises of furnishing a toughest
job to the invader.

'' Well, Mr. Enderby," said the general,
after a steady look at it, ''I mean having it
and Sikukuni himself to boot; but it will cost
us dear if these fellows fight, as we've every
reason to suppose they will. Just ride forward,
tell Colonel Rumford he is making
capital practice, and that I want that kraal
cleared before I slip the infantry. I wish to
goodness I knew whether those fellows can
retreat down the back of their mountain,
but I suppose there is no doubt they can."

Maurice set spurs to his horse, and cantered
gaily off to where Colonel Rumford's
guns, with perfect accuracy, were dropping
shell after shell into the town; but as he

remarked upon receiving the general's message:


'^ Tell the chief, sir, I'm not producing so
much effect as I expected. The town is
evidently occupied by nothing but their
warriors, and even they, I can't help fancying,
don't hold it in any force. My men
have got the range exactly, and, though I've
already knocked down some half-score of
their huts, yet the result has been the disturbance
of very few of them. Now and
again a shell makes a few of them shift their
quarters, but I can't think there are many
of them there."

'^ I will tell the general what you say,
sir," replied Maurice, as he touched his cap,
and, turning his horse sharply round, he
galloped back to his chief.

CHAPTER XVII.

THE STORMING OF THE KRAAL.

Before Maurice had regained the general's
staff the infantry were advancing steadily
across the plain towards the kraal. Siku-
uni's people made no sign, that is, in the
town that lay at the foot of the mountain ;
still, it was evidently not deserted, for, as
Colonel Rumford had said, his shells every
now and then unearthed a few of them, and
sent them scampering elsewhere for shelter ;
but on the rocky terraces above the enemy

showed themselves freely, and were evidently
prepared for resistance. Steadily
the troops advanced, the guns playing over
their heads, but without much apparent
effect, although shell after shell was pitched
into the kraal, upon which all eyes were
riveted. The attacking party had now got
within some couple of hundred yards, when
suddenly the quick eye of the officer who
was leading the storm hers caught the gleam of
steel from behind that hedge of prickly pear.

'^ Lie down ! '' he thundered ; and the
bugler at his side sounded the order — sounding,
poor lad, his own requiem as he did so
for as the storming party dropped in
obedience to his command a volley of musketry
swept over them, which, however,
claimed but one victim as its result.

^' Axes to the front ! " cried their leader;
'' now then, my lads, up and at them before
they have time to load again. Hold your

VOL. III. T

fire till you are up to the hedge. Forward !
Charge ! '' and waving his sword he dashed
forward at a steady run.

The Kafirs had by no means abandoned
the town, but were formed up behind the
hedge, which now became the scene of a
desperate hand-to-hand struggle. Several
of the men had been armed with axes, with
a view to hewing their way through the
barrier, and succeeded in making a gap
which they soon enlarged sufficiently to
enable the greater part of their companies
force their way through.

Still, inside, the garrison made a most
stubborn resistance, but the supports were
promptly hurried up, and after a quarter of
an hour's fierce fighting the kraal was in
the hands of the English ; the enemy retreating
up the mountain. The battle had
now begun in earnest : large gaps were
speedily opened through the pear and cactus

hedge. The infantry were poured rapidly
into the place, only to find themselves under
a heavy fire from the terraces immediately
above them. No time was lost, and speedily
the victors were swarming up the mountain
in pursuit of their obstinate foe. When
they gained the first terrace, which they
did with considerable loss, it was only to
encounter as obstinate a resistance as they
had done down below ; and it was clear
that the storming of these successive terraces,
enfiladed as they were in many instances
by caves, the whereabouts of which
were unknown to the assailants, was a very
tough business. The general's aides rode
fast and far that day, for he rapidly recognised
the exceptional strength of the position,
and foresaw, if he meant to make,
to use a homely phrase, ^'a good job of
it," it would be necessary to employ all

his infantry.

t2

Slowly, but steadily, the British won their
way up the mountain, though every terrace
was desperately contested. The sun was
now high in the heavens, and the troops
had been, more or less, engaged since early
morning, but the general saw now that it
was a question of a short time only. The
defence began to wax somewhat weaker.
You cannot drive a foe before you for hours
without more or less demoralising him, and
the last terrace taken had not been defended
to the bitter end as the previous ones had
been.

''Mr. Enderby," exclaimed the general,
"ride down to Major Carlton and tell him to
take his lancers round the mountain so as
to cut off the enemy if he endeavours to
escape on the other side, and then make your
way up yonder'' and he pointed to the
mountain, '^ and bring me back word what
they think of things in front. It looks tome

as if we had pretty well taken the fight
out of them."

Maurice rode off with his orders. '^ The
general's right," he muttered, *^ the heart
is about taken out of them now, and if the
lancers are to cut off their retreat they'll
have to look sharp."

He gave his message to Major Carlton,
and then lingered to exchange a few words
with Charlie Grafton.

^^ So you've brought us our orders to chip
in again, we've had nothing to do but look
on lately."

*' No, the infantry have had toughest work
driving those fellows up the mountain, and
the general wants you fellows to catch them
when they come down the other side ; and
now I'm off; my orders are to go and see
how they are getting on up there."

'^ And we're off too," replied Charlie.
^* I think we shall have made a pretty clean

business of it before another couple of hours
are over, if we only find galloping ground
when we get round by the hill."

Maurice nodded good-bye, and then
pushed rapidly on to the kraal. He entered
through one of the gaps that had
been hewn in the prickly thorn h-edge, dismounted,
and giving his horse in charge
to some of the ambulance people, who were
busy amongst the huts, commenced the
ascent of the mountain. The spattering
rifle fire was going on above him as the
skirmishers pushed forward from rock to
rock, preparatory to storming the last terrace
but one. Ere Maurice could reach
them he heard the cheer which told that
they had closed in, and heralded the final
rush ; he pushed on as rapidly as he could,
but they were a good bit above him, and
though he gained rapidly upon them the
yells and shouts told him they were already

at close quarters, and he knew that the
struggle would be most likely over before
he got up. It turned out as he expected,
and when he arrived the assailants were in
full possession of the terrace, and pausing
for a few minutes previous to attacking the
last one.

^' What, it's you in command, Maitland ! ^'
he exclaimed, as he exchanged hand-grips
with the sturdy Highlander who was in
command of the party.

'^ Yes," he answered, glancing down at
the crimsoned blade of his claymore, ^Hhese
fellows have fought like wild cats, and it
has cost us dear. But it is about over now,
we've only that one more terrace to carry
and they don't mean making much of a stand
there ; see, there's lots of them going over
the crest of the hill now. Now, my lads,
spread out in skirmishing order, and push
on as before. Sound the advance, bugler ; "

and again the Highlanders pushed on, using
their rifles but little this time, and being
met by only a spattering desultory fire
from the final terrace. The short space of
ground was quickly skirmished over ; the
bugle sounded the close, and Maitland with a
cheer led his men in their rush. The fighting
on this terrace was all over in two or three
minutes; a handful of the Kafirs perished
grimly in their obstinacy sooner than yield
to the invader ; and it was now obvious
that the whole of Sikukuni's stronghold
was in the hands of the English, his tribes
scattered and dispersed over the crest of
the hill.

"A very pretty eye this same Sikukuni
had for a military position," said Maitland.
•' It's been a rare tough nut to crack, and,
if the artillery had not dispersed them a
good deal in the kraal, it would have cost
us still more lives than it has."

'eyes," replied Maurice, as he stepped
along the terrace ; unluckily, a cave to his
right attracted his attention and he advanced
a few steps towards it. Suddenly
four or five rifles were discharged from its
interior, and with a stifled cry Maurice fell
to the ground.

There was a rush of soldiers to the cave ;
a tumult mixed with shrill cries and savage
execrations, and then all was still ; and in
another couple of minutes half-a-dozen grim
veterans issued from its mouth and quietly
wiped their blood-stained bayonets. Maitland
had sprung forward in the meanwhile
and raised Maurice. The wounded man
was deadly pale, and a slight froth was
oozing from his lips.

He's badly hit, sir, I'm thinking," said
a bluff corporal to his officer, as he assisted
him to place Maurice in what they deemed
an easy position.

^' Yes," rejoined Maitland ; '^ away with
you, Donald, and hurry up the doctor as
quickly as you can. We must get him down
this confounded place as soon as we can,
but the surgeon had better see him first."

The corporal dashed down to the terrace
below him, where he soon found the surgeon
busy in the exercise of his duties. The
doctor responded promptly to the summons ;
quick as thought he was on his knees and
tearing open the patrol jacket, cut away the
shirt, and gazed anxiously into the two
small wounds from which the blood was
slowly oozing.

^' That's nothing," he said, pointing to the
upper one; '^ but there's trouble in this ! of
what nature it is difficult to say, till I've
used the probe ; but it must have hit some
of the vital organs. We must get him down
of course but if you're a friend of his,

MaitlaiicI, it's no use disguising from you
that it's a bad case."

'* I've not known him very long' replied
the other, ^'but he's a right good fellow. It's
Enderby, the man who did the famous ride
from Etshowe, you know. I can't stay any
longer, for I must scour the crest of the hill
with my skirmishers. He is not in immediate
danger, is he ? "

"^ No," replied the doctor; '' he is recovering
now from the first shock, and curiously
enough it's more that upper wound than the
lower which has stretched him senseless.
He'll soon come to when I administer him a
stimulant.

Maitland had time for no more. 'forward,
my lads," he exclaimed, and very
soon he and his Highlanders had crowned
the crest of the hill from whence they could
descry their broken foe, retreating pell mell
down the narrow and precipitate road that

led to the plain on the other side. A
stretcher party meanwhile bore Maurice
down to the kraal. A temporary hospital
was established there, and, after a tablespoonful
or so of brands had been forced
down his throat, he opened his eyes, and
began slowly so recover his senses.

'' Don't talk — don't try to talk. You are
badly hit, but we've given these Kafirs an
awful dusting. What I want you to do is
to lie as still as you can. Anything you
want just whisper to me as shortly as you
possibly can."

Maurice nodded assent, and then, in tones
barely above a whisper, murmured,

'charlie Grafton."

'^I know," replied the surgeon. '^ Hein
the — th Lancers. He shall be sent for
at once, and no doubt will turn up as soon
as he can."

'' Done, doctor, eh ? '' whispered Maurice,
interrogatively.

^'Pooh ! Mr. Enderby," rejoined the surgeon.
'^ Knocked out of time for the present,
but we shall patch you up, and you'll
live to drink many a bumper in commemoration
of this day's victory. Now swallow
this. I want you to sleep and keep as quiet
as you can till we get you to the waggons "

'all right, doctor!" murmured Maurice,
with a faint smile. '^ I'll do my best, but
my time has come. Poor Bessie ! " and,
having swallowed the potion the doctor
proffered, he fell quietly back on the
stretcher, and seemed to sleep.

Far away in the open plains at the back
of the mountain the Lancers rode hot and
fiercely on the track of the flying enemy, but
their defeat was thorough, and the demoralised
Kafirs made not the slightest attempt
to stand ; whether the famous robber chieftain

had fallen or not in the day's battle.
Major Carlton knew not, when he recalled
his squadrons, their lances red with carnage.
That Sikuknni was not his prisoner was all
he could say positively on that point. Slowly
the wearied Lancers jogged back towards
the camp, which was already formed in the
plain fronting the mountain which had been
the object of such fierce contention during
the day, and they had hardly arrived there
before a messenger from the general made
his appearance, with an intimation that he
wished a report sent to him at once of what
they had done on the other side of the hill.
The messenger further brought a note for
Lieutenant Grafton, which briefly informed
him that Maurice Enderby was badly
wounded and anxious to see him, '^ so
badly'' added the writer, '' that there is not
very much time to be lost."

Charlie was much distressed at the intelligence,

and went at once to his commanding
officer, for leave to ride across to headquarters,
as soon as they had got the men
camped down for the night.

^^ All right, Grafton'' replied the Major,
'^ I've got to send one of you with this
report of our day's doings to the general.
He will probably ask you a few questions
about what we did. Poor Enderby ! I hope
you will not find him quite so bad as you
expect. Most promising young fellow that,
and I should like to have had him one of us''

Grafton touched his cap and without
further word started on his errand. He had
not seen much of Maurice, it was true, but
there are circumstances under which a strong
friendship springs up in a few hours such as
might take months in the ordinary course of
things. The light-hearted dragoon had
taken a strange fancy to Maurice from the
first, and it must be remembered that he had

heard a great deal of Enderby from his
brother, and then there was no manner of
doubt that Maurice sabre had saved his life
on the occasion of the night attack outside
Etshowe.

*' There can be no liopCj" he thought ;
'^ poor fellow ! he must have got his death-wound
I suppose — the doctor would hardly
have said ^ no time to be lost ' unless it had
been pretty well all over." He made his
way in the first place to the general's tent
and gave his report.

'' I had some Hopes, Mr. Grafton, you
might have brought me word that you had
captured Sikukuni himself ; the prisoners
say he was commanding in person, but I am
afraid now he has escaped us. However 1
am glad to hear that the casualties in your
corps are slight," and a nod of farewell told
Grafton that he was dismissed, and now he
was free to go and see Enderby. He soon

found the tent to which he had been carried.
One of his brother aides-decamp was watching
by the bedside and rose as Charlie
entered.

'' Mr. Grafton, I presume. I am very glad
you have come for he is very anxious to see
you''

^' Is it so very bad a business ? " asked the
lancer in a low tone, though not so low
but what it caught the quick ears of the
wounded man.

^' Come here, Charlie," he said, eyes, I
am going surely if slowly. The doctor
owned as much when he was here some half-hour
ago, and I can feel myself that it is so.
I am not afraid to die, but when I think of
my wife and child I am not sure that I had
any business out here at all. Poor Bessie !
she has come so far, and even now will be
denied the satisfaction of receiving my farewell
kiss. I don't know. I got a false start

VOL. III. u

somehow to begin with, and then I began
to go wrong, and was afraid to trust myself
amidst all the racing. The work out here
kept me straight, you see."

'^ Yes' interrupted Grafton, as he clasped
the dying man's hand, ^^we all know how
well you've done your work too, and are
proud of you''

A smile came over Maurice's face at the
praise of his young comrade, and he
whispered,

'' Grive me some more of that stuff to
drink. I have one favour to ask of you ;
I know it's granted already if within your
power."

^^ You're letting him talk too much," said
the quiet voice of the doctor, who had
glided noiselessly to the bedside.

^' It makes very little difference, doctor,"
rejoined Maurice; '*' a few hours more of
life are of little consequence. I am ready

to go, as it must be so, as soon as I
have said what I want to Grafton. Listen,
Charlie : I should think our work here was
finished up to-day, and that fighting, at all
events, is over for the present. 1 want you
to go down to Marietzburg and take my
last message to my wife. Tell her how I
died, and that my last thought was of her.
I made a will before I left England, and
your brother is my executor and knows all
about everything. If you can get leave
you will do this for me, won't you, and
see poor Bessie off to England as well ? If
I struck a good blow for you that night
by Etshowe you'll not fail me now."

'^ I promise you solemnly to do your
bidding, Maurice'' replied Charlie, as he
pressed the dying man's hand.

^^ Good-bye! Good-bye, doctor! I am

choking ! It was all a false start ! '' Then

came a paroxysm of coughing, trio blood
u 2

gushed from his lips, one or two convulsive
shivers of the strong frame, and Maurice
Enderby's course was run.

** He was shot through the lungs," said
the doctor, as he reverently closed the eyes,
'' and the internal hemorrhage has choked
and killed him."

CONCLUSION.

They laid poor Maurice to rest, with many
of his gallant comrades, at the foot of that
rocky stronghold which had been the scene
of such desperate fighting. Maitland,
Charlie Grafton, the surgeon, and some
half-dozen others heard the last few prayers
read over him, and then they left him to
his last sleep in the wild, far-away land to
which his fate had driven him.

As the dead man had foreseen, this victory
finished up the war in that part of Zululand,
and Charlie found but little difficulty in

obtaining a month's leave, and then, with
a sorrowful heart, he started on his journey
to Marietzburg.

^^Poor Maurice!" he muttered ; ^' I am
bound to do his bidding, but pegging one's
way up that hill the other day would have
been child's play compared to this. How 1
am to tell the poor little soul that she'll
never see her husband again I'm sure I
don't know. It's pretty bad when one has
to break trouble to a pal, but it is nothing
to this ! "

As far as the lancer's experience on this
point went, the breaking to one of his
brother-officers that he had smashed the
pipe or lamed the horse he had borrowed
was about as much as he could speak to,
but ill news travels apace, and, some days
before Charlie Grafton saw her, Bessie had
heard of the capture of Sikukuni's stronghold
and knew of the price it had cost her.

She was stunned by the blow in the first
place, but it is astonishing how these soft,
pliable women steel themselves to bear
trouble when it comes, and, the first shock
over, Bessie looked her great trouble steadily
in the face. There was no more for her
to do in this country ; she was alone in the
world once more ; no, not quite ; there washer
child, and she must get back to it as
quickly as might be. She had no idea how
she was left with regard to worldly goods ;
she knew that Maurice had done the best
he could for her before he left England, and
that Mr. Grafton knew all about it. She
would wait a little longer on the miserable
chance that the news of Maurice's death
might not be true ; but she had little hope ;
she knew how rarely it was that these
sinister rumours were contradicted ; a supplementary
return of killed and wounded
was far more common than a slight error

with regard to the original list ; still, she
was there, and whilst a glimmer of hope
was left she was bound to wait. It was
too hard ! She had come so far. She had
nursed him back to life once, and yet she
was destined to be far away from him when
he died, not fated to have the sad satisfaction
of hearing his farewell and receiving
his last kiss. She was seated at the window
looking out over those rolling plains across
which, but a few weeks back, she had
cantered so blithely with Maurice. She was
musing over her short married life and
thinking how, despite its troubles, what a
happy time it had been to her. The tears
welled to her eyes as she thought sadly
of her present desolation, when the door
suddenly opened and a servant announced,
^^Mr. Grafton''

She had never as yet seen Charlie, but
of course had heard much of him from her

husband, and rose at once to welcome him.
She knew his errand, and he saw, both in
her face and by her dress, that she did so.
It was an immense relief to him and gave
him courage to plunge in me diets res at
once.

^' You know why I am here, Mrs. Enderby
? The terrible tidings have reached
you, I can see, though I have ridden both
fast and far to break them to you myself."

'' Thank you," she replied gently as she
sank back in her chair.

'^ I was with him to the last," continued
Charlie, sand have brought you his last
farewell, as I promised I would. • Bid my
wife good-bye for me,' he said, ^ and
tell her my last thought was of her.' "

Bessie's tears flowed fast, and there was a
strange huskiness in Grafton's voice as he
went on —

'^ I stood by his grave, Mrs. Enderby, and

saw the dust fall on the stanchest friend I
ever had — one who all but gave his life for
mine. It was hard ; the day was over, the
battle won, when poor Maurice, who was in
the front as usual, came across four or five
Kafirs skulking in a cave. Whether they
were scared at finding themselves discovered
or what, I don't know ; but they all discharged
their guns and killed poor Maurice.
It may be some slight consolation to you to
know that everything was done for him that
could be done, and that he was spared much
suffering." And here Charlie ceased speaking,
and Bessie's sobs alone broke the
silence of the apartment.

^^ Thank you, very much, Mr. Grafton,"
she said, as soon as she could control her
voice. '^ Leave me by myself, please, for a
little, to think it all over. I didn't know
till now how fondly I still clung to the hope

that he might still be alive. I shall see you
again, of course ? "

'' Yes, I shall be quite at your disposal for
the next few days ; " and so saying, Charlie
left the room.

After the first few hours Bessie once more
recovered herself, and set herself at once to
work to make preparations for her departure.
She was delayed for some two or three days,
in consequence of the necessary arrangements
fur quitting Marietzburg requiring
some little management, and during that
time she never tired of hearing Charlie
Grafton talk about her lost husband. She
heard the story of the ride from Etshowe
from a man who had all but witnessed it
himself, and Charlie never wearied of descanting
on the good qualities of the deadman.


*^ He could ride, Mrs. Enderby, and there

A FALSE Start.

wasn't a better swordsman in the cavalry
brigade."

However, thanks to the lancer's exertions,
they were off for Port Durban at last,
where, true to his promise, Charlie had
determined to see Mrs. Enderby safe onboard
ship, and she was naturally only too
anxious to leave a land in which she had
known such bitter sorrow.

The kangaroo's" anchor was atrip, the
blue peter was flying at the fore, and the
hoarse cry of 'for shore to the gangway "
resounded through her decks.

Good-bye, Mrs. Enderby'' exclaimed
Charlie Grafton. " May fair winds and a
good voyage be your lot. I have kept it
till to-day's he continued, as he placed a
small packet in her hand, "but I brought
down for you Maurice's watch, rings, and a
few trifles of that sort ; in fact we kept all
we thought you would like to have. His

sword, and a few of the larger things, have
been forwarded to my brother ; and now I
must say good-bye. Remember me to
Bob."

'^ Good-bye, Mr. Grafton ; and thank you
very much for all the care you have taken
of me."

^' I have only done the very little I could
to pay off the great debt I owed your husband,"
said Charlie, as he pressed her hand.
snow then, look alive for shore," roared
a hoarse voice behind them, '^ we shall be
moving through the water in another five
minutes." Charlie lifted his cap and in
another minute was slipping down the gangway
into one of the surf-boats that lay
along side. A few minutes more, and a
flutter of her handkerchief from Bessie as
the steamer sped on her homeward voyage,
and a wave of his cap from young Grafton
as the rowers ploughed steadily back to the

Natal coast, and their adieux were completed.


*****

'^ Well, general, I've done it," exclaimed
Bob Grafton, with an expression of comic
despair, as he burst suddenly into the
general's sanctuary, regardless of the efforts
of the well-trained servitor, who vainly
endeavoured to announce him. ''I don't
want to say a word against poor dear
Maurice Enderby, but this is just what
comes of ill-regulated young men who go off
to the wars, and leave what the Americans
would call ^ loose children ' lying around''

'' What on earth do you mean ? " said
General Shrewster, as in blank astonishment
he removed the cigar from his lips.

^'Just this," returned Grafton: "when
Mrs. Enderby went off all in a hurry to look
after her husband, Mrs. Molecombe volunteered
to take care of the child till she came

back. Well, you know what a woman is,
under those circumstances. She swore-in all
her friends to keep an eye on that boy.
There was a perfect syndicate of us in the
business, and the end of it is ''

''- That two of that syndicate have settled
to become one'' interposed the general
laughing. " My dear Grafton, I heartily
congratulate you. I've seen a good deal of
Edith Molecombe lately, and she is a
monstrous nice, sensible, ladylike girl, and,
in a worldly point of view, is a very fair
match for any man."

'' Oh ! it's all right," replied Bob ; " don't
think I've any misgivings about the matter.
The only blessed thing I don't quite understand
is, how I came to do it at all ; you see
I never counted upon ' plunging ' in that
way''

I dare say not. I fancy there are a good
many fellows who don't make up their

minds till quite the last moment. A hot
flirtation is like a good thing to hounds.
You take fences you would not look at in
cold blood. However, IVe nothing but congratulations
for you. Have you any news
of Mrs. Enderby ? "

"• Yes ; I had a letter from Charlie only
the other day, and she may be here any
moment. He saw her off from Port Durban
and it's a mere question whether the
Kangaroo " or the mail steamer goes the
fastest''

'^ She'll be made a great fuss with here''
said Shrewster quietly, ^^ when she does
arrive. The feeling about poor Enderby is
very strong. Tunnleton is very proud of
his exploits in Zululand, and there is an idea
that he was dealt rather hardly with about
his Tunnleton doings. Poor fellow ! I'm
afraid my advice had something to say to
sending him out to his doom."

*^ That's nonsense, general," replied
Grafton; ^^ as far as that goes, I had also
something to say to it. But what was to be
done ? The man had made a false start in
life. He was always fretting in his clerical
harness, and the gossip here stung him to
madness. Had he been spared, poor fellow,
he would have made his mark in his new
profession. Charlie's letter is full of his
praises, and I fancy the men out there
thought very highly of him, and that, had
he lived, there would have been very little
doubt about his obtaining the commission he
desired."

'^ And when does your brother think of
coming home ? " asked the general.

^' When this cruel war is over, as the song
says' laughed Bob. " IVe a sort of hazy
idea that it never is quite over in those
parts. They are always on the simmer, like

VOL. III. X

a pot ail feu and boil over at periodical
intervals."

As Greneral Shrewster had predicted,
Bessie's friends showed strong sympathy
for her in her trouble, and the Molecombes
insisted upon her making her home with
them till, as Edith said, '^ she had time
to look round," and Bessie willingly consented.


'^ I have," she said, smiling, '' some
business matters to talk over with Mr.
Grafton, and I should think there is no
place where I am more likely to come across
him than here."

'' Perhaps not," rejoined Edith demurely?
*' he is here a good deal."

'besides," continued Bessie, ''I shall
most probably settle in Tunnleton. I have
a great many friends here, and I think can
manage with my slender income."

But a letter from John Madingley very

soon removed any fears Mrs. Enderby might
entertain regarding ways and means, for
Uncle John, who had read of Maurice's
exploits with the greatest pride, and who
had felt most sincerely grieved at his untimely
end, promised at once to make hera
suitable allowance and to provide for herat
his death.

"I don't ask you'' he wrote, "to make
your home with me, because it would be a
dullish life for a girl like you to be buried
in the country with an old fogey whose
sole visitors are a few other old gentlemen
of his own standing, but I hope you'll pay
me a visit every summer and stay just as
long as it pleases you. Shrewster will tell
you that I was only waiting for what, alas !
was never to be, namely, to see your poor
husband gazetted into the army, to allow
him a moderate income, and this, my dear
Bessie, will at once be extended to you.

And now, may God bless and comfort you
in your sorrow.

^^ Ever your affectionate Uncle,

^' John Madingley."
"It is very kind of him," said Bessie;
"everybody is very kind to me. Ah,
Maurice, my dear, if you could but have
lived to share it all with me ! "

THE END.

W V 9W

,A ./■ .# .>^ .A # ./^ .>^ .A ./- .>

• > •* •• •« •• •!» C** c^ A^ •% c^

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

,/• ,A ./^ ./- .A ./^ ^ ,J^ ,/- .f ^

*>• «• *• c« «* «« r% •• c^ s^ a^
