OF THE

UN IVLR5ITY

or Ill Noise

Mei

The person borrowing this material is
responsible for its renewal or return
before the Latest Date stamped below. You
may be charged a minimum fee of $75.00
for each non-returned or lost item.
Theft, mutation, or defacement of library materials can
be causes for student disciplinary action. All materials
owned by the University of Illinois Library are the
property of the State of Illinois and are protected by
Article 1 6B of Illinois Criminal Law and Procedure.
TO RENEW, CALL (217) 333-8400.
University of Illinois Library at Urbana-Champaign

fiB

2S

Z#

When renewing by phone, write new due date
below previous due date. LI 62

VOL. I.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/atfault01smar

i Iffbd.

.HAWLEY SMART,

AUTHOR OF

Breeze LANGTON," " BROKEN BONDS," " SOCIAL SINNERS,

THE GREAT TONTINE," ETC., ETC.

For the lords in whose keeping the door is

That opens on all who draw breath,
Gave the cypress to love, my Dolores,
The mettle to death."

m THREE VOLUMES.— VOL. L

LONDON :
CHAPMAN t HALL, Limited, 11, HENRIETTA ST.

1883.

[All Bights reserved.]

CONTENTS OF VOLUME I.

c

CHAPTER V.

to

•^ THE CRICKET MATCH . . . .-• 108

cs

CHAPTER VI.

MR. CUDEMORE AT HOME . . . 142

4.

CHAPTER VII.

r PAGE

nid's advice" . . . . 162

CHAPTER VIII.
"discord at dyke" . . . 178

CHAPTER IX.
"what a tease you are, Herbert" . . 197

CHAPTER X.
the opening of the marlborough theatre . 212

CHAPTER XL
"a dinner at the hoping" . . 24:5

CHAPTER XII.

sergeant SILAS USHER . . . 263

CHAPTER I.

"JOHN FOSSDYKE, SOLICITOR."

Ought to have a theatre, sir — of course, it
ought to have a theatre — the idea of a thriving,
go-ahead place like Marlborough being
without such a thing ! We've a mechanics'
institute, assembly rooms, hospital, college,
covered market, Conservative club, public
gardens, a town band — the most thick-headed
and irascible municipality in the kingdom,
school of Art, and all the latest fads of the
times we live in, and no theatre. It can't be
it mustn't be. Do you mean to elevate the

VOL. I. B

masses or do you not ? Are these not days in
which culture is everything ? What are mute
to mezzo tints, or ducks to dados ?
Who would think of table sensualities when
the intellectual banquet of Hamlet by the great
Dobbs awaited him. No, Marlborough, with
its thirty thousand inhabitants, is astir with
dramatic interests. We have local artists, sir,
who only want opportunity ; suckling shakespeare
in our midst who merely want some
slight study of stage craft to blossom into
metropolitan fame. No, Dr. Inglebyby, despite
the supreme stupidity and obstinacy of the
Corporation, you and I have pulled through a
good many ticklish matters, and we'll work
this. Marlborough must have a theatre, and
when I, John Fossdyke, tell you so, you know
the thing will be."

That was the keynote to John Fossdyke's
career— his indomitable self-assertion. Fifteen
years ago he had settled in Marlborough as a
solicitor, a young man with no introductions,

not an acquaintance, much less a friend, in the
place, and now he was practically their leading
citizen. From the very commencement it
signified little what it might be, but whatever
there might be to be clone in Baumborouorh,
about it Mr. Fossdyke had much to say.
Shrewd, hard-headed, pach^^dermatous, and a
fluent speaker, he had proved from the first
totally irrepressible. He began, as naturally
all leading citizens do begin, in the opposition,
and speedily demonstrated that to have John
Fossdyke's fluent tongue and keen brain
against a thing was to make its accomplishment
a matter of some trouble. A man this
to be propitiated, and cookery and contrivers
of snug local jobs came quickly to the conclusion
that this was a man to have on their side,
and made overtures accordingly. Energetic,
irrepressible John was in no humour to turnup
his nose at well-buttered bread, and speedily
had not a finger but his whole fist in every pie
worth baking. Practice came rapidly to him,

B 2

and he had plenty of ability to take advantage
of it, and having succeeded in marrying the
daughter of a well-to-do clergyman in the
neighbourhood, who had inherited a nice bit
of money from her deceased mother, he conjoined
the lucrative profession of money lending
to the selling of law. It was soon spread
about amongst the farmers round Marlborough
that lawyer Fossdyke had clients ready to
advance a little money on decent security
should the banks prove rusty, and in his early
days John Fossdyke took care to outbid the
banks and demand one per cent, less interest
than they did. He throve and waxed fat insubstance
year by year, as men with this
vehemence of clutch always do, obtained the
appointment of town-clerk and a monopoly of
all legal pickings connected with the Baum-borough
municipality. At the time this narrative
commences, and Mr. Fossdyke feels it
incumbent on him to express his sentiments
concerning the erection of a theatre for Baum-borough

to his esteemed friend, Dr. Inglebyby,
he had acquired for himself a pleasant villa
about a mile outside the town, with about a
hundred acres of grass and pleasaunce around
it, and was as leading and prosperous a man as
any in Marlborough. The building of this
theatre, which now occupied his restless mind,
was another of those local improvements which
he so persistently floated, and which had in no
little measure made him. His fellow-townsmen
appreciated the public gardens, mechanics'
institute, &c., all of which were in great measure
brought about by his unwearied agitation,
and which he took good care should more or
less contribute to his advantage. " A warm
man, and a good sort, and likes a bit of sport,"
said that large country side of which Baum-borough
was the market town, and the popular
solicitor so far endorsed the latter laudation as
to be ever open to the offer of a day's shooting
or coursing, and to generally put in an appearance
at the cover-side, when the hounds met

within easy distance. But with all these virtues
there was one allegation sometimes made
against Mr. Fossdyke, namely, that though he
doubtless had made a good bit of money, he
was a very difficult man to get money from.
These detractors were chiefly the tradespeople
of Baumborongh. who, though perchance mere
scandal-mongers, it could not be denied were
certainly in a position to form an opinion.

*' Well," said the doctor slowly, after a
pause, " I suppose if you have made up your
mind, Fossdyke, we are to have a theatre, a
theatre we shall have. You generally carry
out what you go in for, but it's no use pretending
your schemes are always successful.
You shook us up to begin with. We had got
stagnant, and the municipality wanted new
blood, but you're over-doing it now. The
assembly rooms are not open twice a year, the
covered market draws no custom, and the
public gardens so far are mere sand, ashes, and
sticks."

Things must have a beginning," rejoined
Mr. Fossdyke cheerily. " You must educate
your public to prefer legitimate space for
dancing to the delights of crushed and torn
flounces. Trees must have time to grow,
while as for the covered market, I'll leave the
climate to bring that into fashion. AYalk out
to the Dyke with me, have some lunch, and
discuss the theatre."

But Dr. Inglebyby declined that offer, and the
prosperous solicitor strolled home by himself.

Prosperous, well-to-do men's houses are not
quite so pleasant inwardly at times as their
exterior would indicate. Good Lord ! there
are many things we hanker sadly after that,
could we only take a peep behind the scenes,
we should never wish for more. John Foss-dyke
had married well, so said all Baum-borough.
It was regarded as a considerable
step up the social ladder when he, at that
time a struo^orlinor solicitor, won for himself the
hand of the only daughter of the Eev. Maurice

Kimberley, J. P., and rector of Bimby, a parish
lying some two or three miles outside the
town. It was true Mary Kimberley was no
chicken, and some years older than the aspiring
attorney, but still Mary had a nice bit of
money, and was considered at the time to have
thrown herself away rather, although it did not
seem quite so clear what other matrimonial
alternative was open to her. Marriage no
doubt is no necessity for women, but when
she has passed five-and-thirty, if she has any
inclination that way, it behoves her to give
due consideration to such proposals as may
fall to her. Mary Kimberley was a little tired
of Bimby rectory ; life there was somewhat
stagnant, and she had a vague lonoiDsr to
change it for a world with somewhat more
'* go " in it. She was a sensible young woman,
and when John Fossdyke asked her to marry
him replied she would give him an answer in
twenty four hours. She had " a good think "
over the business, and having arrived at the

conclusion that there were only three courses
open to her, namely, to remain mistress of the
rectory, to marry some impecunious curate, or
say yes to John Fossdyke, made up her mind
to the latter, and said yes the next day. Sofar
Mary Kimberley had shown wise discretion,
but the pity of it was, that as Mary
Fossdyke she forgot to continue it. Many a
man has been indebted to his wife for his first
start in life, but if ever a man feels that he
has borrowed the capital that floated him at
usurious interest it is when his wife persistently
reminds him of the fact. Mrs. Fossdyke
always kept before her husband that it washer
social pre-eminence that placed him where
he was, that it was her money which was the
foundation of his fortune. Perhaps it was ;
no doubt there was considerable truth in it ;
but the perpetual recapitulation of conferred
benefits is about as trying as any known
method of exasperation. Nobody accused the
Fossdykes of living a cat-and-dog life, but it

was generally conceded that Mrs. Fossdyke,
though a well-meaning woman, was a little
trying at times, while it was urged on her
behalf that she had fair cause of complaint
about the manner in which she was often left
alone for weeks at a time. Mr. Fossdyke's
business was extensive, and by no means in
these days confined to Marlborough. He
was a man with a good many irons in the fire,
and such irons, as we all know, require constant
watching, and energetic John Fossdyke
was not the man to let the kettle boil over
from being out of the way.

Mrs. Fossdyke, dear good lady, although
honestly fond and proud of her lord, could no
more resist that irresistible luxury, a grievance,
than the rest of us, and was wont to
murmur over these constant absences in plaintive
manner to her intimates. " After all Fve
been to him, my dear'' she would say, *' after
my lifting him into society, after my even
finding him the money with which he was

first enabled to embark in these treat undertakings.
John's clever there's no denying,
energetic I grant you. Few men, even withall
his advantages, would have achieved what
he has done, but John is not considerate. He
should remember what I have been to him,
that I occasionally require change, and am not
above roughing it a little Ashen necessary ; in
short, he might, I think, take me with him on
some of these business excursions.'^

But John Fossdyke remained impenetrably-deaf
to all such hints as these. When his
business required him to leave home he went,
but never found it incumbent on him to take
Mrs. Fossdyke. That estimable woman possessed
the advantages of a steely grey eye, an
aquiline nose, and much fixity of purpose, but
she was fain to admit in moments of confidence
that John would have his way in some
things, and one of those things was the transacting
of business without counsel from his
better half. It had taken some time to instil

this into the good lady's mind, for she was
by no means diffident concerning her abilities
to conduct anything, of any kind, and from
laying out a flower-garden to the buying or
selling of Egyptians, from the cooking of an
omelette to the question of what had become
of the lost tribes of Israel, never hesitated to
express a decided opinion. About this last
question, indeed, she was deliciously feminine
and illogical. She said the Jews were unbelievers,
and therefore not entitled to credence,
consequently there was no real reason to
believe that there were any lost tribes, such
evidence as there was concerning them beings
utterly unreliable — an ingenious bit of sophistry
more easy to deny than disprove, and
which caused Mrs. Fossdyke to be spoken of
by the surrounding clergy as a clever woman,
but with rather unsound opinions. So John
Fossdyke went his way silently and solitarily
on these business excursions, while his wife
aired her imaginary grievance with much petty

satisfaction. She was not exactly the woman
to take a real wrong quietly, and, though stye
was very far from suspecting it, neither was
John Fossdyke the man to put up with anything
but absolute submission to his will when
the occasion waxed strong enough. People
may live a long time together, and while life
progresses in the ordinary grooves, form a very
mistaken estimate of each other's character.
The indolent man thoroughly roused for instance,
the dictatorial bully sharply collared,
the meek patient woman at last outraged past
endurance, or the shrinking shy girl, suddenly
called upon to play a heroine's part, constantly
astonish those who fancy they know them
thoroughly. It is some sudden discovery of
this nature, which labelled incompatibility of
temper, very often furnishes employment for
the divorce court.

Seated in the drawing-room at Dyke, in
desultory conversation with Mrs. Fossdyke,
was a tall rubicund elderly gentleman, who,

sad to say, was wont to be the cause of some
acrimony between the lady and her spouse. Mr.
Totterdell, by appearance, should have been
devoted solely to his own comfort, the pleasures
of the table and port wine. So he was,
but he unfortunately conjoined with these
tastes a most insatiable curiosity. No child
could have been more exacting as to " the
why" of this, that, and the other, and his
presence on one occasion of the packing of
John Fossdyke's portmanteau had driven that
gentleman to the verge of madness. He
wanted to know why he took dress things with
him; why he took shooting boots, when he
said he was going to London. Whom did he
expect to dine with, &c. ? In short, he
possessed one of those petty inquiring minds
that are very trying to a quick, energetic
temper. He was Mrs. Fossdyke's godfather,
had made a comfortable bit of money at some
business in the city, and had now retired and
settled at Marlborough, where his principal

occupation was the supervision of his neighbours'
affairs. Notably was he much exercised
concerning the goings and comings of John
Fossdyke. and that energetic gentleman was
the last man in the world to succumb tamely
to such supervision of his affairs. What with
Mrs. Fossdyke thinking that her advice would
be invaluable, and old Mr. Totterdell's doddering
curiosity concerning them, there was a
good deal of friction in the domestic life of
John Fossdyke.

He's too venturesome, Mary ; I've said so
all along; he's always starting something new
in the town," wheezed old Totterdell from the
depths of his easy-chair. " What does he want
with all these new notions down here ? they
are all very well in London, but Marlborough
can't support such things. I have heard that
a theatre is a profitable speculation in the
metropolis, but we don't want one, and what
can John know of matters theatrical ? Mark
me, my dear, I don't want to croak, but your

husband will get into trouble by meddling
with matters he don't understand. What is
all this business that requires his perpetual
absence ? Something, Mary, that he knows his
old friends would pronounce hazardous if they
knew of it. No, no, you ought to exert your
influence. A wife should be her husband's
confidante."

*' It's too true, godpapa, and John makes me
miserable by the mystery in which he insists
on enshrouding his business transactions."

Not only those, but I can't understand
him at all," returned the old gentleman, fidgeting
in his chair, and toying with a heavy
pair of double gold eye-glasses. " I have
only settled down here about a twelvemonth,
and can consequently claim no longer acquaintance
with your husband than that ; but
now who is this companion you have got ?
Where did she come from ? Nothing wrong
in it, no doubt, but still where did she come
from ? "

How should I know ? " rejoined Mrs. Foss-dyke.
" Miss Hyde's account of herself is
plain and straightforward enough. Her people
are not rich, and she was tired of living at
home. John — and it was kind of him to think
of it — thought that it must be dull for meo



while he was away, and suggested I should
have a companion. Miss Hyde answered our
advertisement, and here she is."

*' And a very nice-looking, ladylike girl she
is to look at, I admit ; in fact, if anything,
perhaps a trifle more good-looking than most
ladies would care about as a companion."

Don't talk nonsense, godfather," retorted
Mrs. Fossdyke, sharply. " John has never
made me uncomfortable in that way, and
Bessie Hyde is no coquette."

Quite so, my dear ; but still, where does
she come from ? "

Good gracious, what can it matter ? Shea
nice lady-like girl, and whether her father
is a retired tradesman or a broken-down

VOL. I. c

professional man is no consequence," and Mrs.
Fossdyke's foot tapped the floor with somewhat
unnecessary vehemence.

Her godfather's insatiable and absurd curiosity
occasionally exasperated Mary Fossdyke,
but there were, unfortunately, times when it
roused distrust in her surroundings. The
old proverb of the Romans tells us that the
constant drip wears the stone ; the constant
friction breaks the spring, the nerves, or the
temper, and when once the why of all the
actions of those with whom Ave habitually
live becomes matter of inquiry, suspicion
must be the inevitable consequence. This
was exactly what was gradually arising in
Mrs. Fossdyke's mind. She had indulged in
natural curiosity concerning the business that
took her husband so much from home in the
early days of their wedded life, but when also
it was made manifest to her that John Foss-dyke
brooked no inquiries into his business
affairs, she, like a sensible woman, made up

her mind to acquiesce in this decision. When
he suggested that as they had no children it
would be pleasant for her to have a young
lady as a companion, Mrs. Fossdyke felt very
Grateful to her husband for his forethought,
and she had found Bessie Hyde as bright,
pleasant, and good-tempered as it was possible
for a young lady of nineteen to be. Miss
Hyde had arrived at Dyke nearly two years
before the commencement of the narrative,
while Mr. Totterdell had settled in Baum-borough
some twelve months later. It is
necessary to mention these facts to explain
the manner in which Mrs. Fossdyke, who was
in the main an honest, good-hearted woman,
gradually allowed her imagination to be inflamed
and her judgment to be perverted.
by such a cackling curiosity-monger as Mr.
Totterdell. That gentleman, since his retirement
from business, found time hang heavy
on his hands, and endeavoured to lighten it

as best he might, by laudable watch over the

z

concerns of his neighbours. He inflicted a
considerable amount of his leisure on his
goddaughter, and though Mrs. Fossdyke was
by no means enchanted by the attention, she
bore with it for prudential reasons. The
old man had beyond doubt a considerable
sum of money to leave behind him, and
Mrs. Fossdyke was about the nearest relative
that he had. But the result of Mr. Totter-dell's
perpetually " wanting to know " had
slowly resulted in engendering distrust in
Mrs. Fossdyke's mind. She had got used to
her husband's constant and at times long
absences from home, but Totterdell's perpetual
speculation as to what he went about had
brought back uncomfortable thoughts to her
mind that she had long since done away with ;
while his perpetually harping upon *^ where
did Miss Hyde come from " was inoculating
her with unwarranted suspicions concerning
the girl. Mrs. Fossdyke was half ashamed
of both these feelings herself, but nevertheless

she could not help showing them to the two
people from whom it most behoved her to
conceal them — her husband and Bessie. The
former resenting all reference to his movements
fiercely, speedily discerned who it was
that prompted his wife's interrogations, and
was rude and curt enough in his remarks
to Mr. Totterdell to have banished a more
sensitive man from his house ; but that old
gentleman in his thirst for information was
accustomed to encounter rebuff : he was case-hardened,
impervious to snubbing, and callous
to sarcasm, and short of telling him in plain
English that you would have none of him,
was no more to be got rid of than Sinbad^s
^' Old man of the sea." To shut your door
against your wife's relations requires some
justification, and when you belong to the
community of a country town, the ordering of
your menage is public talk. John Fossdyke,
though not a man to be cowed by popular
opinion, did see that to close the gate against

Mr. Totterdell would by no means close that
garrulous old gentleman's mouth, and as the
broadest hints that his company ^Yas undesirable
had proved useless, had finally elected to
bear it as best he might. Still his face darkened
a little as he entered the drawings-room
and discovered his hiite noir ensconced in the
easiest chair, babbling, as he had little doubt,
over his, John Fossdyke's, affairs.

A dark, portly man of florid complexion,
scarce a tinge of grey in his black hair, and
with an eye keen as a hawk's, John Fossdyke
looked what he was — a prosperous man;
shrewd, with an air of bonhommie that disarmed
suspicion. He had a rich mellow voice,
could, indeed, troll out songs of the 'jolly
nose " type in rather superior fashion, an
accomplishment that stood him in good stead
amongst the farmers of the neighbourhood,
who, moreover, liked the jovial attorney none
the worse because, if he could snatch a day,
he had rather a penchant for attending the

local races, and having what lie facetiously denominated
a few " spangles " on the principal
event.

Good morning, Mr. Totterdell," he said, ashe
advanced. *'' What is the best news with
you to-day ? "

*dear me, I've heard nothing, positively
nothing at all ; nor has Mary, she tells me.
There must be something new to talk about.
What have you heard, my dear friend '? "

I have nothing: to tell. I had nothing todo
out of the office except attend the meeting
about establishing a theatre in Marlborough ;
of course there are obstacles and there is
opposition, there always is. We shall overcome
them — people always do who persistently
stick to a thing, and I'm a rare sticker."

But godfather is quite sure a theatre in
Marlborough can never pay, John," interposed
Mrs. Fossdyke.

And pray what does Mr. Totterdell know
of either theatricals or Marlborough. He has

only been a twelvemonth in the town. I have
been fifteen years and more."

I never heard that you had any experience
of theatricals' wheezed Mr. Totterdell.

I was very fond of them as a young man,
and knew a good many theatrical people, and
occasionally look in at a theatre now, when
business takes me to London," replied Foss-dyke,
a little tartly.

Then all I can say, John, it's a great
shame that you don't take me with you when
you go away, when you know how I enjoy a
theatre," chimed in Mrs. Fossdyke.

^'Eh ! you mixed a good deal with theatrical
people in your early days ! Now, what
made you do that ? " inquired Mr. Totter-dell,
eagerly. . " How did you get thrown
amongst them ? Tell us that, it will be very
interesting."

I shall not gratify your curiosity in anyway,"
rejoined the solicitor. " I only mentioned
it in proof that I had some slight

knowledge of matters theatrical. As for you
accompanying me, Mary, on business trips, it
is simply impossible. I rarely know when they
may take me to London, and I have told you
before that you would be only uncomfortable
and disappointed."

** I should like to go once though," rejoined
Mrs. Fossdyke, like a true daughter of Eve,
none of whom would ever flinch from discomfort
to see what any man they cared about
might be doing under any circumstances.

"Are theatrical people pleasant acquaintances
? " inquired Totterdell, who was all alive
at the bare idea of getting a little insight into
Fossdyke's early life, a subject on which he
was singularly reticent ; indeed, even his wife
knew very little of his career previous to his
settling: in Baumborouo;h, and it was the
knowledge of his ofoddaucrhter's ignorance on
the point that so whetted the old inquisitor's
curiosity.

Cultivate them and judge for yourself,"

rejoined Fossdyke brusquely, who, though a
genial and tolerably good-tempered man, was
wont to wax irritable under Mr. Totterdell's
endless questions.

'' Much doings in the office ? " croaked the
insufferable one.

Pshaw ! " ejaculated the solicitor. '' Whatever
may be doing in the office you surely
know is not to be talked about. I shall go
and look at the roses, Mary. Send and let me
know when tea is in."

'rit's very odd," remarked Mr. Totterdell,
as Fossdyke stepped through the window,
"but that is just what Miss Hyde went
to do half an-h our ago. Bad-tempered man
your husband, my dear ; bad-mannered too,
rather," and the old gentleman sunk back
in his chair with a benevolent smile on his
countenance.

He's not bad-tempered, godfather," rejoined
Mrs. Fossdyke, firing up, and by no means as
yet prepared to hear her husband found fault

with by any one but herself. " He can't bear
being questioned, and you always irritate him
by doing so."

But, God bless me, how's conversation to
be carried on without you ask questions ? "
rejoined Mr. Totter dell. " I thought he
would have been delighted to tell us all about

o

his theatrical life. I dare say he was something
in a theatre."

He was nothing of the kind, and it's
downright wicked of you to suggest such a
thing," cried Mrs. Fossdyke, indignantly.

John Fossdyke made his way amidst the
flower-beds to the further side of the trimly-kept
turf, where the grass ceased to be studded
with the gay masses of colour, and ran down
green and velvety towards a prettily-planned
rosary, the denizens of which were now in all
the glory of their summer bloom. In their
midst a tall, dark-haired maiden, her hands
cased in gardening gauntlets and armed with
a large pair of scissors, was busy, snipping off

the faded blooms and casting them into a
small basket at her feet.

Hard at work again, tending your favourites,
Bessie V said the lawyer, as he advanced.

'' Yes," returned the girl as she welcomed
him with a smile, "they are worth taking
care of this year. Did you ever see a more
magnificent show than they make ? — but you
are home early to-daye*'

There was little business to be done, but
old Totterdell cross-examined me out of the
house, so here I am. How my wife can endure
that garrulous old nuisance I can't imagine.
He ought to leave her a good bit of money,
and not be long before he does it, Tm sure.
Does he ever bother you, Bessie ? "

** Yes ; he embarrasses me at times. He
wants to know so very much about my antecedents
; but I usually escape on the plea of
seeing about some household duty, and Mrs.
Fossdyke is very good, she generally acquiesces
and covers my retreat''

*' Quite right ; whatever you do make no
confidant of him. My wife never troubles
you in this wise ? " inquired the lawyer, burying
his hands in his pockets and casting a
keen look at the girl.

Never ; Mrs. Fossdyke after the first has
never questioned me about my home. But is
it not time for tea ? "

I suppose so ; and here comes Robert to
tell us' and the pair sauntered slowly back to
the drawing-room windows.

There was nothing much in this conversation,
and yet if Mrs. Fossdyke had heard it
she would have decidedly thought there was
something in her godfather's suspicions after
all. There was no sign of the slightest flirtation
between the two, but the few foregoing
sentences did rather point to an understanding
of some sort between Fossdyke and Miss Hyde.
His calling her Bessie was nothing : both he
and his wife had commenced doing that before
she had been six months under their roof, and

made no disguise that they were very fond of
her, and regarded her more in the lio-ht of a
niece than a dependant. Still it was not
difficult to gather from those few words which
passed between them in the rosary that John
Fossdyke knew more of Miss Hyde's antecedents
than that young lady had thought fit
to confide to his wife.

And it may here be at once stated, in justice
to a very charming girl, that Bessie was no
impostor, and that her statement was in the
main correct. She had been brought up by
her aunt, and had o-ot on very well with her
cousins, until she arrived at the age of seventeen,
and commenced to mingle in such society
as her aunt, the vsddow of a well-to-do partner
in a large silk and millinery establishment at
the West End of London, had arrived at.
Then her superior attractions and attainments
dwarfed the goods her two cousins had to
display, and it was the old story of Cinderella
and her sisters. The made home uncomfortable

to her, and she sought to leave it. She
had a skeleton of her own in the closet — but
there's few of us have not — likely if discovered
to prove detrimental to obtaining such a situation
as she washed to obtain. It was no great
harm, but society has its prejudices, and no
country on the face of creation is so miserably
cant-ridden as England. She knew John
Fossdyke, and consulted him. His answer was
prompt and decisive : he knew all about that
skeleton.

*' Say simply that you were brought up by
sour aunt, Mrs. Lewisham, and are tired of
home. Say nothing about your other relatives,
and, above all, never hint that you have
any previous knowledge of me, and I Avill find
you a comfortable home in my own house.
My wife is a good woman, and will be kind
to you, but if she once suspects I have any
previous knowledge of you she will want to
know the whole particulars, will never rest till
she does, and then, poor thing, she has her

prejudices, and, Bessie, I doubt whether she
would tolerate you at Dyke."

At first the girl flamed fiercely up at this,
but gradually John Fossdyke made her comprehend
that, let her seek a situation where
she might, it was imperative that skeleton
should be kept out of sight.

"It is prejudice and sheer nonsense, child,
of course, but we cannot convince people of
that. They will not want to see what you
are, but will at once decline your application.
You may just as well be mute about it in
my house as another," and at last Bessie
consented, and at the end of two years was
fain to confess Dyke was more a home to her
than any other place. The Fossdykes treated
her precisely as if she was a near relative,
and being a handsome, lively, attractive girl,
Marlborough generally made a great deal
of her. At the time this story commences
the Fossdykes very rarely got an invitation
in which Miss Hyde was not included.

*' Come and pour out the tea, Bessie dear,"
exclaimed Mrs. Fossdyke, as the girl stepped
through the window. " We are quite ready
for it."

I hope 1 haven't kept you waiting, but
there was so much snipping to be done I forgot
how late it was getting."

Anything new this morning in " — Baum-borough,
Mr. Totterdell was about to ask, but
John Fossdyke's darkened face checked him,
and turning to Bessie, he concluded his question
with " in the rosary ? "'

Yes, caterpillars," growled the lawyer.

Bessie bit her lips to control her laughter.
Totterdell beamed benevolently, as if it was
something even to learn that ; while Mrs.
Fossdyke frowned meaningly at her husband.

A few minutes later, and Mr. Totterdell rose
to take his departure, not influenced in the
slightest degree by the undisguised irritability
of the master of the house, but simply that
no further question occurred to him, indeed

VOL. I, D

his last, if completed according to his original
intention, was a mere repetition. He shook
hands affectionately all round, and then rolled
out of the room with all the assured manner
of a favoured visitor.

Your godfather, Mary, is getting more
unbearable every day," remarked John Foss-dyke
snappishly, as the door closed behind
the old gentleman.

He is somewhat trying I admit, but we
can't well close our door to him ; besides, some
of these days he will leave something very
comfortable behind him ; and I don't know
how it is, John, but we always seem to be in
want of money, considerable though your
income must be." :

John Fossdyke uttered an impatient pshaw.
Even to the wife of his bosom he was extremely
reticent about his affairs, but she did know
that she brought him a nice bit of money, and
that he held the appointment of town clerk,
which carried a very handsome salary with it,

then surely his business as a solicitor must be
tolerably profitable ; yet she knew from practical
experience that he always parted with
money most grudgingly, and was wont to be
querulous even over the household expenses,
an eccentric trait this in John Fossdyke's
character, men of his genial temperament
being usually free-handed, unless compelled
to be otherwise from circumstances, and that
could hardly be his case.

By the way, John," said Mrs. Fossdyke,
after a slight pause, " godfather told me he
had been asked to come forward as a candidate
for the municipal council."

*' He ! " exclaimed her husband. " I trust
he won't think of such a thing. He's very
unfitted for it. We have a great deal too
many fussy, interfering fools there as it is.
Besides, it is rather ij?fra di in a man of his
position. Mind you impress that upon him."

I feel sure I couldn't. It was the height
of his ambition to achieve that distinction in

D 2

London, though he never succeeded. I assure
you he is quite keen about it ; besides, he has
nothing to do, and it will amuse him."

** You won't find him more untractable than
some of the others, Mr. Fossdyke," remarked
Miss Hyde, " and you know you contrive to
have your own way pretty much with the
council."

Nevertheless," he replied decidedly, " I
don't want Totterdell there. Remember,
Mary, if you can choke him off it, do. You
also, Bessie, dissuade him if you have an
opportunity. As for me, I shall endeavour
to prevent his election."

Lor' ! John, it surely can't matter much
to you," exclaimed Mrs. Fossdyke.

Please do what I ask you. It may be a
small matter ; but, believe me, I have my
reasons for not wishing to see Mr. Totterdell
on the council."

CHAPTER II.

PERILS OF THE PARKS.

The Syringa Music Hall in the City Road
was a place of mark known not only to
Clerkenwell and Islington, but occasionally
visited by adventurous spirits from the West
End, whose insatiable thirst to see the last
thing in " great and glorious comics," or
eminent acrobats, led them to penetrate to
distant suburbs. The Syringa had been established
about ten years, but in its earlier days
had been only a modest concert-room, under
the name of Moffat's, where harmony and
refreshments were nightly dispensed. Whether
Moffat was unequal to the times, failed to
discern that mystic problem, *' what the public

wanted," or whether Moffat lacked capital, it
is impossible to say, but it is certain that
Moffat did not flourish. He reduced his
vocalists' salaries, whereby the music went
from bad to worse ; the quality of his liquors
fell off, and his customers also in like proportion
; in short, after sustaining the struggle
for five years Moffat was glad to avert bankruptcy
by disposing of the whole concern,
including the remainder of his lease, to Mr.
James Flamborough.

James Foxborougli was a man of a very
different stamp) from the late proprietor. He
was a go-ahead, energetic man, with evident
command of capital. He knocked the old
concert-room down, got possession of an
adjoining house or two, and proceeded to
build a commodious modern music-hall in
its place, which he christened the Syringa.
Whereas IMoffat's had been comparatively unknown,
except to the initiated, gaudy-coloured
posters and extensive advertising proclaimed

the birth of the Syria ; star artists were
engaged, a capital entertainment organized,
the catering carefully looked to, and in less
than three months the new music-hall was
drawing crowded houses.

Mr. Foxborouoil mio'ht be said to be in
the profession. He had married Miss Lydia
Willoughby, the celebrated serio-comic vocalist,
some twenty years ago, and in the beginning
of his career had been chiefly indebted to that
lady's earnings for his support ; but of late
years he had made money, chiefly it was supposed
by travelling about the country with
theatrical companies. He was an admitted
shrewd judge of such things, and was, moreover,
presumed to be considerably assisted
therein by his wife. Mrs. Foxborough was
wont to say, "I don't pretend to be a judge
of either the play or the acting, but I know
when there's money in a piece, and it is by no
means the best plays that bring in the most
money." In which assertion the lady was in

all probability right. At all events she managed
the Syringa, while her husband was away
on his numerous theatrical tours, exceedingly
well, was very popular with her company,
and sure to note those who "drew" and
those who failed to do so ; and though she
knew well it was her business to set rid of
these latter unfortunates as quickly as possible,
yet the kind-hearted manageress, when
aware that employment was a very serious
object for them, on account of the narrowness
of their means, would allow them at
times to hano^ on some weeks after their engagement
had expired, sooner than turn them
adrift with nothing to do.

It was not often that ]\Iiss Nydia Willoughby
appeared on the stage herself now-a-days.
It was not that her voice was gone at all,
far from it ; perhaps it was as good as ever
it had been, the result of not being unduly
worked. If her figure was a little fuller and
more matronly than in her younger days, she

was still a tall, handsome woman, verging on
forty it might be, but with not a thread of
silver in the rich chestnut hair, while the
dark blue eyes flashed as brightly and archly
as when they had riddled the heart of Jim
Foxborough years ago ; but Miss Willoughby
thought it judicious not to give the frequenters
of the Syringa too much of herself She
always got an immense reception when she
did sing, which she dearly loved, for she was
clever in her line and very popular with the
public, and she had sense enough to know
that if she was continually in the programme
her welcome could hardly be expected to be
so enthusiastic. She was a brave, plucky
woman, who had had a hard struggle with
the world in her younger days, and had
battled it out, neither flinching nor complaining.
Now things were easy for her, and she
had leisure to enjoy life, and was never so
happy as when she had her vagrant husband
at home for a little between his tours.

Mrs. Foxborougli dearly loved her husband
and Nid. Nid was their only daughter, a
sweetly pretty girl of sixteen, with her
mother's chestnut hair and deep blue eyes,
but with no promise of ever attaining her
mother's stature. She was a bright, piquant
little thing, with rather irregular features, but
with a charming smile and most beautiful
teeth. She had been highly educated, especially
in music, for money had been tolerably
plentiful ever since Nid had been of age to
require masters, indeed the hard times of her
parents' early career had been over before
Nid was old enough to understand such
things. She had a dim recollection of living
in somewhat poky lodgings, compared with
the pretty cottage standing in its own garden
on the north-east side of the Regent's Park
which they now occupied, but she could only
just call to mind the time when her mother
had no brougham of her own, but had to go
about in cabs. The little lady, indeed, had

been brought up, if not in luxury, at all
events in easy circumstances, and had acquired
a somewhat contemptuous estimate of the
value of money.

She was seated now, coiled up in a big easy-chair,
in the drawing-room of the cottage,
talking in animated fashion and with very
flushed face to her mother.

Yes, mamma, quite an adventure, I assure
you. I was just entering the Park at the
upper end, one of the side gates not far from
the Zoological Gardens, you know, when a
rough] looking man accosted me, and asked me
to give him something. I glanced round in
hopes of seeing some one, but, as far as I could
see, there was nobody in sight. I hurried on,
but he easily kept alongside of me, and T
suppose it quickly dawned upon him also that
he had got me all to himself. Suddenly he
changed his tone, and exclaimed gruffly, ' If
young women like you ain't learnt to be charitable
it's about time they wos taught. Do you

know, miss, it's the tiptoppedest of all the
virtues — leastways that's w^iat the chaplain
taught us in Millbank, so tip us that purse I
see in your hand — quick, or I'll twist your
blessed little head off.' Oh, mamma, I could
have dropped, and mechanically held out my
purse to him. 'This is a somewhat hasty
conversion,' he continued, as he pocketed it,
but a well-educated young woman like you
don't require to be reminded that " He who
giveth to the poor leadeth to the Lord," and so
off with that necklace and those bracelets, and
look sharp, for if I have to help you I shall,
perhaps, turn out a roughish lady's-maid.'
This so frightened me, mamma, my hands
trembled to that extent that I could not
undo the clasp of the necklet. The man got
impatient and suddenly seized hold of me and
wrenched it from my neck. Up to this I had
been paralyzed with fear, but now I screamed
in downright earnest. ' Stow that,' exclaimed
the man fiercely, ' or I'll strangle you. Come,

off with the bangles, quick, or I shall have to
assist you again.' I unclasped one bracelet,
and then my legs fairly failed to sustain me,
and I sank half fainting to the ground. The
ruffian uttered a savage oath, and advanced
towards me. Suddenly I heard a quick step
on the grass ; a man with a white hat dashed
at my assailant, who had barely time to confront
the new-comer. There was a quick
interchange of blows. I saw my footpad acquaintance
drop as if shot, and then I fainted."

"My darling, you must never go out again
in that way by yourself," said Mrs. Fox-borough,
as she came across from her own seat
to fondle the little chestnut head in the armchair.


Nobody ever was rude to me in the park
before, mamma, and you know I have been
there by myself over and over again."

Yes, dear, but this shows it is insufficiently
policed. When your papa comes back we
must get him to see the authorities about it.

It is monstrous that a young lady living near
the Regent's Park should not be able to walk
in it unattended. But let me hear the end
of your adventure, Nid, as I have got you
here safe and sound I can afford to listen
to it."

Well, when I came to, I found the gentleman
with the white hat supporting me, and
dabbing my face with a wet handkerchief,
which he kept damping from a watering-pot
held by a park-keeper. I came round pretty
quick then, mamma, as you may imagine. If
finding herself in a strange gentleman's arms,
while her face is being dabbed in a most
uncomfortable and manlike fashion, with a
park-keeper superintending the operation, isn't
enough to bring any girl to, I don't know
what is. Anyhow, I gave a gulp or two, goton
my legs, shaking as they were, and asked
for some water to drink. He of the white hat
and the park-keeper looked helplessly at each
other for a moment or two — it was obvious I

couldn't drink out of the watering-pot, and
then my preserver started the park-keeper off
for a jug and a tumbler. I felt so damp that
I half suspect they had used the watering-pot
and treated me as if I were a geranium while
I was unconscious.

'' ' I am afraid you have been terribly frightened
he said quietly, ' but I trust are not
hurt. I was unluckily a little late in coming
to your assistance, though T assure you I came
as soon as I heard your screams, and as quickly
as I could — any one naturally would. Has the
ruffian robbed you of anything ? I found the
bracelet on the grass, but you may have lost
more.'

' He has got my purse and my necklet,' I
stammered, 'but don't, please, don't trouble.
I can't thank you now, I am too nervous,
but you have been very good — and — and Fm
very much obliged.' It was tame, mamma, I
know, but I really was all abroad, and could
not do the thing prettily.

'I'm sorry about the purse, and also that
the scoundrel has got away, but though I
knocked him down very clean,' rejoined my
hero, ' he was on his less and making marvellously
good use of them in a twinkling. I
thought of giving chase for a moment, but I
couldn't leave you here insensible

' It would have been very inhuman if you
had,' I answered with a gulp, for I could
hardly repress a slight tendency to hysterics."

I should think not, darling," said her
mother, softly, as she bent over the girl, fondling
her.

*''The scoundrel will probably get off,'
continued my friend, ' and you will probably
never see his face again. But there is one
consolation for you — had he been apprehended
you would have had to appear against him at
the police court, and that is not very nice fora
young lady.'

' I would rather lose ten purses,' I replied,
hastily.

' That depends a little on what is in them,'
rejoined my new friend, laughing. ' But are
you well enough to think of going home yet ?
Ah, here comes the park-keeper with the water

'' Well, I drank some water, and he escorted
me to the outside of the park, and walked
with me till wee met a cab. Then he put me
into it, asked where he should tell the man
to drive to, hoped 1 should soon recover
from mv fright, and lifted his hat in farewell.
He was very nice, mamma."

And I suppose very good-looking, Nid —
the heroes of little romances like yours always
are," replied her mother, laughing.

'' Well, that is just what I don't think he is.
I can't say I ever had a really good look at
him. I was so frightened, and it was so
awkward, you know, but I should call him a
tall, red-headed man. He was thoughtful,
too, to the last, for he checked the cabman a
minute just as I was going off, and leaning
forward said, ' Do not think me obtrusive,

VOL. I. E

but remember you have lost your purse ; can
I be of any further use ? ' Of course I
thanked him and said no."

I suppose he is a young man ? " said Mrs.
Foxborough, interrogatively.

I hardly know — not very young, certainly
; but, mamma, the more 1 think about
it, the more convinced I am he is ugly."

Ah, well, my dear, I don't suppose "we
shall see him aorain, though I own I should
like to thank him for his kindness to my
little girl," said Mrs. Foxborough, as she
stroked the girl's chestnut locks.

*' Perhaps not," replied Nid ; but in her
own mind she felt pretty certain that she
should see her red-haired, white-hatted
acquaintance before long. And the girl was
correct in her surmise, for the very next
morning the trim parlour-maid brought in a
card, on which was inscribed "Mr. Herbert
Morantt, 6, Morpeth Terrace."

*' Please, ma'am, the gentleman wants to

know if sou will see him, as he has recovered
Miss Nydia's necklace which the thief stole
yesterday."

Certainly ; show him in, Ellen, and let
Miss Nydia know he's here," and Mrs. Fox-borough,
with no little curiosity, awaited the
appearance of the hero of yesterday's adventure.


He speedily made his appearance, a tall,
gentlemanly-looking man, with hair, though
not glaringly red, still of a most decidedly
warm-coloured tint, clean-shaved all but a
trim moustache, a quiet mobile face, with a
pair of bold keen eyes that met your own
without a blink or a droop in them.

"Mrs. Foxborough, I presume," he said,
with an easy smile. " It was my good fortune
yesterday to render your daughter some slight
service, and though I should hardly have ventured
to intrude upon you on such grounds,
yet it is incumbent on me to restore this to
her" (here he produced the necklet), "and I

E 2

Library

UNIVERSITY OF laiNOlS

could not resist the temptation of doing soin
person in order that I might inquire if she
is really none the worse for the rascally attack
made upon her."

"It is very kind-of you to take so much
trouble," rejoined Mrs. Foxborough, 'rand the
more so because it enables me to thank you
and express my gratitude for your protection
of my daughter. 1 do thank you from the
bottom of my heart' continued the lady,
extending her hand ; " but for you there is
no saying how far that brute's ill-treatment
of her might have been carried ; and she is
very, very dear to me, Mr. Morantt, as you
will understand when you know us better."

I don t think I need see much of you to
understand that," said the young man, with
a frank smile, for though he might not be
young, from Nidus point of view, he lacked a
year or two of thirty. " I ought to tell you,
Mrs. Foxborough, who and what I am ; but
that is just what is rather difficult to convey

to you. It is much easier to tell you what
I'm not. I am neither barrister, doctor,
soldier, sailor, iu short, I am nothing. I am
that anomaly known as a gentleman of independent
means, which might be translated in
this wise — I have sufficient money to dispense
With working for my living, and yet not
enough to do what I want. Then why don't
I work, you will of course ask, like every one
else ; to which I reply, I am just about to
beo^in. I have been about to besoin now," he
added, ruefully, " about six years, but somehow
I don't seem to get any nearer to it."

Mrs. Foxborough could not help laughing.
"An extraordinarily frank, open-minded young
gentleman, this," she thought ; and yet this
guileless young man was even now practising
a slight deception on her. The necklet which
he had called to restore he had picked up at
the same time as the bracelet, but he had
been so struck with Nid's beauty that he
had quietly put it in his pocket so that it

might serve as an excuse for calling upon
that young lady.

Forgive me," he said,, after a slight pause,
but I am haunted with the idea that we
have met before."

I think not," she replied, " although it
is very likely that you have seen me. I ama
professional, you know, and that you have
heard Miss Nydia Willoughby sing is very
possible — that is my stage name."

"Of course ; how very dull of me ! I
have heard you with great pleasure many
times, but it did not, as you may suppose,
occur to me to connect Miss Willoughby with
Mrs. Foxborough, and so I was at fault."

My husband is the proprietor of the
Syringa, Mr. Morantt, and as he has to bea
good deal away conducting country companies,
I am usually manageress. But here
comes Nydia to thank you in her own proper
person."

Very pretty the girl looked as she once more

blushingly expressed her gratitude. "Ah, Mr.
Morantt," she said, " I am so glad you have
come to see us. Mamma can say for me all I
am too foolish to say for myself. I am sure
she has thanked you properly for coming to
my rescue yesterday."

Mr. Herbert Morantt was as self-possessed a
young gentleman as there was about town,
but even he was a little taken aback by the
expression of Nid's gratitude ; there was • a
tremor in her voice, and the tears stood in
her eyes as she gave him her hand and uttered
the above speech. The girl's nervous system
had received a shock from the fright, and, as is
often the case, she felt it more the day following
the occurrence than at the time. She had
told her mother her rescuer was not good-looking
; but he was her hero all the same,
though an ugly one. Her girlish imagination
had magnified the exploit considerably. It
may be no great feat to knock a cowardly
scoundrel down, but a woman feels great

gratitii'le to the man who does that for her in
her hour of need. To an athlete like Morantt,
who had been in his college Eisfht, been one of
the best racquet players in the University, and
had always enjoyed the reputation of being
very smart with the gloves, it appeared a very
small matter ; but Nid viewed it in a very
different light.

^' You are making much of a trifle," he
rejoined gaily at last. '' You don't know what
relief it is catching a fellow to knock down
occasionally — an impudent rough, or something
of that kind — quite an outlet to the
suppressed energy of my nature. I am afraid
I shall recover no more of your properties, and
that you must be content to suffer the loss of
your purse."

We dine what no doubt you will call very
early, Mr. Morantt. It was a necessity of my
vocation at one time, and has now become
habit with me. If you will take us as you
find us, we shall be very glad if you will join

us and accompany us to the Syringa afterwards.
I must go there to-night to keep my
eye on things."

The genial, off-hand manner in which the
invitation was given would have impelled
most men to accept it, and Herbert Morantt
closed at once with the offer. Mrs. Fox-borough
had no reason to mistrust her mirage,
nor could any one reasonably have complained
of the neat little dinner her cook served up.
Mr. ]\lorant, at all events, was perfectly satisfied
with this the immediate result of his
adventure. His hostess could be excessively
pleasant when she liked, and upon this occasion
it pleased her to be so. Not only was
she under some obligation to the young man,
but his quiet, easy assurance, without a particle
of either swaoffrer or affectation, amused her.
Herbert Morantt, indeed, with his perfectly unconscious
manner, could perpetrate in society
without giving offence what would have been
deemed impertinence in another. This, though

in some measure the result of manner at first,
was to some extent a matter of calculation
now. He was licensed in his own set to do
cool things, and he did them. Society as
usual, when two or three of its leaders have
accepted eccentricities from any one, followed
suit, and it was " only Herbert Morantt's way "
was the conventional explanation of anything
that gentleman might choose to do. He was
careful not to abuse the privilege he had
somehow acquired, and if he did cool things
he took care they should never be offensive.
In fact, he was a very popular man, and his
table in Morpeth Terrace was usually pretty
well covered with cards of invitation. The
talking at dinner was chiefly done by Mrs.
Foxborough and her guest. She was a quiet,
clever woman, and though she knew but little
of his world, she contrived that the conversation
should turn mostly in that direction.
She was much more an fait of what was going
on in London generally than most of her class,

whose knowledge and interest are usually confined
exclusively to the doings of the profession
in its various branches. He was candour
itself. He made no secret of his position in
any way ; he owned that this means where very
moderate, that he was a great fool not to
follow a profession or business of some sort,
but said gravely that he never could quite
make up his mind whether to make profit out
of people's litigious tempers, their ailments,
their spiritual necessities, or their credulity.
The result was that he had embarked in no
calling whatever, and was still considering
how to make that fortune which he declared
would require no consideration about spending.

Now wdiat do you think, Mrs. Foxborough ?
What should you recommend me to turn my
ever-wandering attention to ? I've implicit
belief in myself in any capacity, and that, as a
rule, usually insures the belief of the public."

Upon my word, I cannot eay," laughed
the lady. '' In my case I only know belief in

oneself is by no means so readily reciprocate
by the public, otherwise there aire ladies I have
met with who would occupy a Try different
position on the stage, oh ! yes, and men too.
Vanity is no specialty of our sex."

No, I quite agree with you there. A
woman is apt to be vain of her appearance, but,
bless you, there's no end to our conceits. Our
good looks, our talents,, accomplishments,
meaning a capacity for lawn tennis and
valuing. I know one man who is vain about
his collars, and another who piques himself on
his boots. Oh ! no, Mrs. Foxborough, you
can't give us points about that."^

*'I am glad you admit it, for, honestly, in
my profession I declare there is not a pinto
choose about vanity between the sexes, nor
about jealousy neither."

"Yes," rejoined Morantt, ''I have always
understood theatrical people were very sensitive
to criticism on their efforts, bat it has
never been my good fortune to encounter them

before to-night," and here he bent his head
laughingly to his hostess. " Do you mean to
enter the profession, Miss Foxborough ? "

Oh ! that is still in the same category
as your own start in life, Mr. Morantt — not yet
decided."

"Nid can do just as she likes' interposed
her mother. " She has no need to 2:0 on the
stage, as I had, nor is she ever likely to have ;
but if she does, I insist on the legitimate
theatre, my dear. Ill not have you in the
music-hall business. I was glad to take an
opening where I could, and when my chance
of an engagement for a regular theatre came,
found that I could command a much higher
salary where I was. We can always find an
opening for you if you wish to try the boards,
and then, dear child, you can give it up if you
don't like it. And now, Mr. Morantt, we will
leave you to your coffee and cigarette for ten
minutes, while we get our hats on, and then
it will be time to go down to the Syringa

Come, Nid," and the two ladies left the
room.

"Well," muttered Mr. Morantt, as he lazily
inhaled his cigarette, " 1 have been some years
making up my mind with regard to a profession,
but it strikes me that the staofe is about
my form. Deuced nice little dinner. I'd like
to be insured champagne as good all the year
round, and, by Jove, what a charming woman
the mother is ; and as for the daughter, she
is simply lovely. Bless my soul, if knocking
down roughs is o'omg' to lead to this sort of
thing only once in six times, I'll go into the
business heavily. It is so easy, so simple — a
brute of that sort, when you once get in a real
straight one, has always had enough — he's
always a cur. Upon my soul, I think Nid
Foxborough is the sweetest girl I ever set eyes
on. Rather fun this going down to the Syringa
protected by authorities," and here his meditations
where cut short by the opening of the
door, and an intimation from the parlour maid

that the broiioiiam was at the door. He
threw the fragrant of his cigarette into the
empty grate, and proceeding to the hall, found
the ladies, hatted and shawled, awaiting him.
Trust I haven't hurried you," exclaimed Mrs.
Foxborough, " but you must bear in mind that
it is business with me. I shall send you to
my box dien we get there, and leave you and
Nid to amuse each other while I am engaged
in my own room with various people."

Now, though Mr. Morantt knew the Syringa
very well by name, he had never been there.
He had heard it mentioned at times by some
of the fastest of his acquaintance, young men
who were perpetually ransacking the town in
pursuit of novelty, as a fine music-hall, but he
had expected to see a very much rougher place,
and was quite unprepared for the gorgeously
decorated and spacious theatre the place really
was, for the Syringa rejoiced in a large stage
and elaborate scenery, and as nearly enacted
stage plays as it dared to do ; indeed, Mr.

Foxborough had for the last twelve months
been thinking seriously about applying for a
license and turning it into a bond fide theatre.
But then, as his wife urged, there was a risk
about this — the place was a very paying,
thriving: concern as it was : turn it into a
theatre, and it might cease to be so, and nobody
knew better the marvellous uncertainty
that characterizes matters theatrical than Jim
Foxborough.

Seated in an extremely well-fitted stage-box,
looking lazily on at a ballet, as well mounted
as could be seen at any West-end theatre, and
tete-astute with his pretty companion, Herbert
Morantt felt that he had indeed fallen on his
legs, and that his interposition in favour of
injured innocence was bountifully rewarded.
If those knio-bts of the Round Table o^ot half
such payment in kind, Miss Foxborough, as
you and your mother have bestowed upon me
this evening;, I don't clive them much credit for
riding up and down to right wronged maidens."

I suppose the damsels they rescued ministered
to their wants' replied Nid, 'though
perhaps they did not comprise cigarettes and
music-halls."

*' Hush, Miss Foxborough ; you must not
speak lightly of the laureate."

Oh dear ! Who commenced, I should like
to know ? Yesterday when I was frightened
I could have given you my glove to wear in
your helm — that is, hat — if you had asked
for it."

And suppose I asked for it now 1 "

"Oh, you wouldn't ; look, it has eight
buttons," rejoined Nid in a tone of mock
pathos that augured well for her success on
the stage.

Oh, and you don't bestow gloves on your
champions with over two. Is that so ? "

Nid nodded. " Queen Guinevere and her
ladies, I believe, only bestowed mittens, and
those woollen ones. I don't believe much in
those old chivalry myths."

VOL. I. P

What a shocking little pagan you are,"
replied Morantt, laughing. 'your opinions
would be scouted in society, where we believe
in old pictures, old furniture, old books,
old china, in short, everything that savours
of antiquity. Have you a fancy for going on
the stage ? "

"Yes, I should like to test my abilities in
that way. What ambitious girl, brought upas
I have been, would not ? I don't mean in
this sort of theatre ; but where does a woman
find the world so immediately at her feet asa
successful actress ? The sovereignty of the
queen of the stage is, according to the little
I know, more gratifying to the vanity of a
woman than that of the real queens of the
world."

Herbert Morantt stared amazed. How could
this child of sixteen have arrived at this
worldly knowledge ?

At last he said,

"These, Miss Foxborough, are not your

own thoughts. You are quoting your mother,
surely."

No ! but you are right, those are not m}^
own ideas ; they are my father's. I have
heard him talk on the subject so often I am
scarce likely to forget his arguments. Still,
though I know it would please him to see mea
great success on the stage, yet I know I can
do just as I like about it."

And you mean to try it ? "

Perhaps. I don't know. Of course, I
have been to a great extent trained for it.
A pity so much good instruction should be
thrown away, don't you think so ? " said Nid,
with an interrogative upraising of her pretty
brows.

'rit is not for me to advise, but it struck
me, Mrs. Foxborough did not much favour the
idea," replied Morantt ; " but surely there is
somebody bowing to you," and he called Nid's
attention to a gentleman in the stalls, who was
evidently striving to attract her attention.

F 2

"Mr. Cudemore/' said the girl quietly, as
she acknowledged his bow, " he is a friend of
papa's. I don't quite know what he is, but
either a theatrical agent or provincial manager,
or something of that kind."

A dark, slight, wiry man, with a decidedly
Jewish cast of countenance, Mr. Cudemore
was somewhat striking-looking, and that was
probably the reason why he had attracted
Morantt's attention. It was not that he was
remarkably ugly, far from it — he was rather
the reverse ; but the keen, dark eyes, the
slightly curved nose, and the thin compressed
lips, gave a cruel, hawk-like expression to his
countenance. He showed very white, regular
teeth when he smiled, and he was both lavish
of smiles, and amazingly silky in manner, buta
physiognomist would have suspected a touch
of the tiger under all this purring, and been
quite prepared to find him cruel, rapacious,
and vindictive, and they would have been
right Clever and unscrupulous, he lived upon

the weaknesses of Lis fellow-creatures, and
had derived much profit from theatrical speculations.
His plan was to advance money to
people desirous of opening theatres ; he would
accommodate rising actors or dramatists, but
the borrowers invariably found the bond carried
terrible interest, and that Cudemore exacted
it to the uttermost farthing, while as a rule
he took very good care to protect himself
against much possibility of loss. In short,
the man, though he usually termed himself
a theatrical agent, was in reality a theatrical
money-lender, and many a successful artist
had groaned for some years under the lien
Mr. Cudemore held over his salary, obtained
before he had made a name, and when money
was hard to come by, as it is usually in our
early days, let our calling be what it may.
A man this destined to have much influence
on the lives of the pair now looking so
nonchalantly at him from that stage-box at
the Syringa.

However, Herbert Morantt troubled himself
but little about Mr. Cudemore just then.
Turning to his companion, " Do you come
here very often ? " he asked.

No ; nor does mamma either. She only
comes about twice a week, except when she is
in the bill : then she comes every night, and
I come very often. I like to hear her sing,
and I love to see the reception she gets.
She is a great favourite, Mr. Morantt."

*' I know she is, for though I never was
here before, I have heard her elsewhere. What
a very fine hall it is ! "

*' Is it not ? and it's all papa's doing'*
rejoined Nid, with some little justifiable pride.

At this moment Mrs. Foxborous^h entered
the box.

Well, Mr. Morantt, I trust you have been
fairly amused. These trapeze people are
clever, are they not ? As soon as they are
finished I think, Nid, we will be off. I
should like to get away before the crowd

comes out, and the brougham is at the stao;e
door.

I am quite ready, mamma," replied the
girl, rising.

Come, then. Good night, Mr. Morantt."
But Herbert Morantt insisted on seeing: the
ladies to their carriage, and when they shook
hands Mrs. Foxborough said they should
always be glad to see him at Tapton Cottage,
and Nid smiled an endorsement of the
invitation.

CHAPTER III.

THE Marlborough Parliament.

There were days lang syne when the Municipal
Council of Marlborough had droned
and dozed and wrangled over paving and
lighting rates, but such debating as that had
been long relegated to the past, and discussion
now was as lively, acrimonious, and personal
as it is apt to be at St. Stephens.
The member for Pickleton "Ward would express
his opinion of *' the little job " ; the
member for the Stannagate was seeking to
impose upon the Council in terms more
forcible than polite. The member for the
Stannagate might have no motive of the
kind in the matter he wished to carry, but

the member for Pickle ton Ward had determined
to denounce it as a job, as giving
more scope for that fiery and scathing eloquence
which he was conscious of possessing.
Local politics ran high in Marlborough, and
its citizens, marching with the times, had of
late years found their tongues, and were
enamoured of the sound of their own sweet
voices. Some of the seniors were wont to
recall times when there was considerably less
verbiage about their proceedings, and considerably
more business got through at a
sittings, and to hint that all these formalities
had come into vogue with the present Town
Clerk ; for there was no denying now that
the Marlborough Municipal Council imitated
the o^reat Legislative Council of the nation
as closely as might be, and members were
constantly moving and dividing over amendments,
and indulging in vituperation and
motions for adjournment, and, in fact, shewed
a happy appetite for the science of obstruction

as invented by their betters, most creditable
to their intelligence. Whatever they might
have done in former days, nobody could say
proposed changes or improvements were not
amply ventilated now ; the erection of an
additional lamp-post or a new pump constituting
quite sufficient matter for floods of
speechifying and much patriotic invective.

That such a scheme as the building of a
theatre should occasion much commotion and
stormy debate amid an excitable body like
the Town Council of Marlborough may easily
be imagined ; not a city father of the lot
but had much to say both for or against the
affair, and seemed most determinedly bent,
too, upon saying it ; and the less he knew
of the subject the more he seemed to have
to say. The Parliament was about equally
divided concerning it. While the member
for the Stand agate pronounced that it would
afford much intellectual pleasure to the inhabitants
of Marlborough and its neighbourhood,

besides being a steady, if modest,
augmentation of revenue, the member for
Pickleton Ward denounced the whole thing
as the most bare-faced, flagrant piece of
jobbery that had occurred within his memory.
It was not wanted, it could never be made to
pay, it would require an additional rate, and
a very heavy rate too, to sustain this white
elephant that some weak-minded members
had been gulled into giving their support to.
The day on which the decision was to be
finally arrived at had at last come, and it
was known that both parties meant to put
forth all their strength, and it was announced
that Mr. Stanger, the member for Pickleton
Ward, would come out uncommonly strong,
and deliver a reo-alar flagellation to the unfortunate
Brocklebank, the member for the
Stannagate, the leading supporter of the
scheme ; for in his position as Town Clerk,
John Fossdyke took care never to lead the
movement of which he was the inspiration ;

lie pulled the strings, lead much to say to
the ultimate vote, spoke sparingly, and gave
the leader he selected his brief on these occasions
; but he kept himself far more in the
background than his real power and position
warranted. The consequence of this was that
the majority of the Council had no idea of
how very much he had to say to the decisions
they came to.

Mr. Fossdyke was there to-day, calmly
prepared for the battle. He had his plans
and estimates all ready to lay before the
Council ; had conferred long and earnestly
with Mr. Brocklebank, whom he had selected
to bring the scheme forward ; and, as he told
his friend Doctor Ingieby, was determined to
carry his point.

I am not quite clear that Marlborough
wants a theatre," rejoined the doctor ; " and
I don't suppose Marlborough can tell till
it's got one. It's the old story of Sam Slick.
People can get along without a clock who've

never had one, but let them once get used
to having one in the house, and they can't
do without it. Of course I shall back you,
but it will be a close fight."

It will be a fight, but I shall win, and
if I don't win this time I shall fight it over
and over again until I do succeed," said Mr.
Fossdyke,

The meeting commenced, and the Town
Clerk, having briefly observed that he had
procured the plan and estimates for the
building in accordance with the directions
given him by the Council at their last
meeting, placed them on the table and sat
down. In an instant Mr. Brocklebank was
on his feet, and commenced a flowery speech,
in which all the cut-and-dried arguments
in favour of the stage were recapitulated
" how it held the mirror of truth and
nature up to mankind, and in depicting the
consequences of yielding to unbridled passions
it preached as impressive a warning as could

be delivered from the pulpit ; low it afforded
elevated and intellectual amusement, which
tended to make men, ay, and women too,
better and wiser ; how that in thus interesting
the lower classes you were weaning them
from the public-houses, and awaking them, if
he might be allowed to say so, to a higher intelligence.
Should a town like Marlborough,
the rapid increase of which was one of the
many marvels of our great and glorious
country, be the only town of similar population
without a Thespian Temple ? Gentlemen,"
continued the orator, warming to his
work, " the theatre has been a prominent
feature in all great civilizations. Any Woman
town of the slightest importance boasted
its theatre. Panes et licenses was the
universal cry of that turbulent capital —
that grand people, gentlemen, holding that
the intellectual food of the play-house was as
necessary as the very staple of life itself.
(Hear, hear, and cheers from the Brocklebank

faction, mingled with an ironical 'Oh, oh,'
from Mr. Stanger.) Commercially, there can
be no doubt about its being a o^reat success.
Mr. Fossdyke proposes that we should borrow
six thousand pounds on the security of our
rates, with which to erect and decorate the
building, and the estimate, as you see, is well
inside that. The corner of the Market-place,
which he has selected as a site, is already
the property of the town. We shall have
no difficulty in borrowing the sum at a trifle
over four per cent., or, I am assured, in letting
the theatre at a rent that will return us six
per cent, for our money. If at the expiration
of three years the theatre is the great success
which I have no doubt it will be, we may
look forward to raising the rent, or undertaking
the concern ourselves ; in the first case,
it may be safely assumed we shall turn ten
per cent, on our capital, and in the latter,
that is, if we elect to take the thing into
our own hands, twenty. The arguments I

have laid before you, gentlemen, are in my
opinion conclusive as an improvement to the
town, as a vehicle of culture, or as a mere
commercial speculation, it is incumbent on
Marlborough to have a theatre " (an audible
bosh ! from Mr. Stanger) ; " and in conclusion,
I might add that nobody is more likely to
be extensively benefited by it than the
member for Pickleton Ward, the elevation of
whose English is much to be desired."

I said bosh, sir," exclaimed Mr. Stanger,
springing angrily to his feet. " I believe that
to be a good dictionary word, and eminently
descriptive of the farrago of nonsense to which
we have just listened."

Cries of "Order" and *' gutter Kentish "
from Mr. Brocklebank.

Mr. Mayor," continued the now thoroughly
exasperated Stanger, " I venture to request
the attention of the honourable gentlemen
present for a few minutes while I expose
the tissue of lies" (cries of "Order, order),

*' I mean to say, sir, fallacies that the member
for Stannagate has just spoken. To begin
with, he talks the usual ' bosh ' — I repeat
*bosh'; it may be gutter English, but it
is tolerably well understood English — about
the elevation of the masses, culture, &c. But,
sir, a theatre means simply a show that will
pay ; and a manager that knows his work
gives the public what pulls 'em in and draws
their money. As for preaching an impressive
lesson, an improving lesson, I have always
been given to understand the play of ' Jack
Sheppard ' induced many youths to take up
burglary as a trade." ('"'Monstrous, ridiculous,
absurd," from Mr. Brocklebank.) " If ridiculous,
why did the Lord Chamberlain prohibit the
piece ? Answer me that ! " and Mr. Stanger
brought his fist down on the table with a
vehemence that made the inkstands dance.
I believe ' George Farewell ' had no salutary
effect, and that ' Dick Turpin ' was demoralizing"
(pooh, a mere circus piece," from the

VOL. I. G

Brocklebank faction) ; ^' and who, I ask,
gentlemen, is to guarantee this theatre
vron't be a circus? Drury Lane has been a
circus," and once more the inkstands jigged
in response to Mr. Stanger's fist. ^' Commercially,
I tell you, the whole affair is a
sham. The town can't support a theatre, and
it will never return the bare interest on the
original debt, let alone a profit. And now,
gentlemen, I come to the windiest part of
this very windy gentleman's speech. He
has favoured us with some classical reminiscences.
I had not the good fortune of a
university education, which he doubtless had."
(Ironical cheers from the Stanger party, who.
were well aware the member for Stannagate
got his education at Marlborough Grammar
School.) " I can't quote Latin like my gifted
friend, but am free to confess that, as far as
I recollect, the old Woman mob war-cry he
quoted might be freely translated prog and
circuses. Gentlemen, do you contemplate

keeping your poor in idleness and running
this theatre for their amusement, or do you
not ? If you don't I move, as an amendment
to the motion of the member for Stand agate,
that it be consigned to the like obscurity
from which its proposer sprung."

Shouts of " Order, order'' '' Go on," " Hooray,"
and excuses, &c.

''Mr. Mayor," stuttered Brocklebank, purple
with wrath, and rising to his feet, " I protest
"

Spoke, spoke, divide, divide," choruses
the meeting generally.

"Mr. Mayor," suddenly exclaimed Dr.
Inglebyby, in those quiet, resonant, even tones,
to which the turbulent meeting were well
accustomed, "divested of acrimony and embellishments,
this question seems to me to
be in a nutshell — first, does Marlborough
require a theatre, or does it not ? In my
humble opinion, it ought to have one.
Secondly, can the Municipal Council supply

G 2

til at requirement ? to which again I answer
decidedly. I fancy the concern will always
return a fair interest for our outlay, and we
don't look to more on improvements ; " and
here the doctor dropped quietly back into
his seat.

I have only one word to add," observed
John Fossdyke, rising in his turn, "and that
is to thoroughly endorse all my friend Dr.
Inglebyby has said, with this slight addenda,
that I firmly believe it will be speedily found
to prove a most paying investment."

Might I ask, sir," inquired Mr. Totterdell
(he had carried his point and achieved a seaton
the Council), " whether Mr. Fossdyke has
any previous experience of theatrical matters
to warrant our belief in his opinion ? "

The Town Clerk's brow darkened, but he
remained mute to the appeal.

"The question seems to me out of order,"
said the Mayor, "unless Mr. Fossdyke wishes
to explain himself upon that point."

*'I never give explanation to impertinent
curiosity," rejoined the Town Clerk, curtly.

*' I think, gentlemen, the sooner we come
to a decision the better," said the Mayor ;
there seems to be a bitterness imported
into the question which I am at a loss to
account for."

A good stock speech this of the Mayor's,
and one which he had occasion to deliver
on most occasions, inasmuch as discussion in
the parliament of Marlborough meant, to its
councillors generally, the releasing of much
bile and personality, and the present meeting
would have been characterized by its members
as lively, but kept well within the bounds
of decorum ; and now came the decision — a
close thing, as Dr. Inglebyby had predicted, but
the Brocklebank party were successful, and
the buildings of a theatre was carried.

Very jubilant looked John Fossdyke as he
rose in response to the Mayor's invitation to
enter into the details of how he proposed to

raise the funds for the carrying out of his
new hobby, for that this was a hobby of the
Town Clerk's was well known to every man
in the room. Men are wont to look exultant
when they carry their point, and yet there
are often times when defeat would profit
them more. Victory has wrecked many a
throne and many a ministry ; it is not
sometimes till the battle is over that we
find out what success has cost us, and the
sight of the bill makes men ofttimes curse
the hour they threw themselves into the fray.
Triumphant is John Fossdyke just now, but
he little dreams how speedily his account will
be submitted to him for settlement.

He rises jauntily, and explains that for a
prosperous town like Marlborough, with no
liabilities worth mentioning, to borrow money
on its rates at very moderate interest is the
simplest and easiest of financial operations.
He himself can, without difficulty, in the
course of a few days, find people who will

gladly advance the money required at four, or,
at the outside, four and a half per cent. ;
indeed, he observes, the sole delay about the
business will be occasioned — and here John
Fossdyke favours the meeting with a jocular
smile — in the hag^Qflino^ over the interest. *' In
short, gentlemen, it will probably take a few
days for us to argue out a matter of £30 or
so, and I think you may depend upon my
attending carefully to your interests."

But, Mr. Mayor, I would respectfully
ask to submit one question to the meeting,"
bleated Mr. Totterdell. ''1 see by the half-yearly
reports we have a sum of £5,400 lying
at mortgage at four and a-half per cent, on
those new buildings connected with the railway.
Would it not be more advisable to
call that in than to borrow money ? "

Yes, Mr. Totterdell, that is quite a subject
for the consideration of the meeting. Perhaps
it would be better to invest that money in a
theatre than to raise money for the purpose."

Aofain did John Fossdyke's brow darken
as, with some little irritation palpable in his
tones, he replied that notice had to be given
about the calling in of mortgages, and that
implied time. It was impossible that money
could be available for some months, and he
trusted now the theatre was decided upon,
that it would be built and open ere that.
He was an advocate for carrying things out
at once, and not being a year before a resolution
was acted on. Now all this was nothing
to the member for Pickleton Ward ; but Mr.
Stanger, always restless and irritable under
defeat, thought he saw some possibility of
annoying his opponents, at all events John
Fossdyke, by advocating Mr. Totterdell's proposal.
He was on his legs in an instant.

"If," he said, *'a mortgage requires notice
to call in, a theatre requires time to build,
nor is it customary to pay the contractor till
the contract is completed. The contractor
may demand an advance on work done, no

doubt, but our credit is good enough with
the local banks for such short accommodation
as that implies. I most emphatically support
Mr. TotterdelFs suggestion, and beg that he
will make a motion to that effect."

Would Mr. Totterdell make a motion ? "
Would he not — or half-a-dozen of them at
the slightest encouragement. He got rosy
red with excitement ; he fussed and plumed
himself like the elderly turkey-cock he was,
and he gobble, gobble, gobbled, and clucked
as he got up to put his first resolution to the
Council. This was the dream of his life, and
he felt at last he was a factor in the government
of his country. Marlborough might
rejoice in a caucus some day, and he be the
manipulator of it. Who could tell ? In the
mean time no neophyte at St. Stephen's,
whose maiden speech had the approbation of
the Prime Minister, could have felt more
thoroughly devoted to the man who had
fully recognized his ability. Henceforth Mr.

Totterdell was bound to the wheels of Mr.
Stanger's chariot, and would throw in his lot
with that gentleman.

There was much desultory discussion about
Mr. Totterdell's motion ; and although, as far
as he dared put himself forward, John Foss-dyke
strongly opposed it, neither Brocklebank
nor his friends could see the slightest objection
to such an arrangement, and it was consequently
carried by a considerable majority.
There were two men who walked away from
the meeting of the Marlborough parliament
that day who had both carried their points,
and who were both destined speedily to regret
such triumph. The one exulted much in his
victory ; the other was already conscious that
it was Quatre Bras before Waterloo. Mr.
Totterdell was jubilant over the success of
his motion ; but John Fossdyke wished grimly
he had never advocated the building of a
theatre in Marlborough.

CHAPTER IV.

"money never was scarcer."

Mrs. Foxborough was sitting quietly in her
drawing-room chatting with Nid, about a week
after the latter's adventure in the Regent's
Park, when a cab pulled up with a sharp jerk
at the door, speedily followed by a sonorous
application of the knocker. Mrs. Foxborough
started. " That's your father, Nid ! " she
exclaimed ; and dashing out of the room,
found herself immediately enfolded in the
arms of a dark, stalwart, florid-complexioned
man, who kissed her with unmistakable
warmth.

Nid, darling," he continued, releasing his
wife to embrace his daughter. " No need to

ask how you are, child. You look more
blooming and bonny every time I come back."

'' You have no business to go away, papa,"
pouted Nid. 'you can't imagine what ailments
I suffer from in your absence."

I have business, that's just what takes me
away," laughed James Foxborough ; "but I
suppose, my dear, you can give me something
to eat, for I am outrageously hungry."

Of course ; just go and sit down and talk
to Nid for a few minutes, and Til see about it
at once. You shan't have long to wait."

That James Foxborough should appear
suddenly and without warning in his home
occasioned no surprise ; it was his way, he
hated letter-writing, was a very bad correspondent,
and seldom gave intimation of his
return till his hand was on the knocker.
Even his wife was often in complete ignorance
of his whereabouts for weeks. She was used toit,
and though she occasionally declared she
might as well have married a ship captain,

never worried her spouse about his shortcomings
in the epistolary way. By the
expiration of Nid's narrative of her misadventure,
and how Sir Lancelot had come
to her rescue, a story which seemed to interest
her father considerably, Mrs. Foxborough
announced that refreshments were ready for
the traveller, and the three adjourned to the
dining-room.

And has he called since to inquire after
the distressed damsel whom he succoured ? "

Indeed, he has," replied Mrs. Foxborough,
*' half-a-dozen times, and we have got quite to
like him. Nid, who was in a great state of
mind at first that her hero should not be
up to her standard of masculine beauty,
has got reconciled to his red hair at last, I
believe."

*' It isn't very red you know, mamma," said
the girl, " and I declare he's not half bad-looking."


Morantttt, Herbert Morantttt. I've a hazy

idea I know something about some Moments.
I must ask."

Don't flatter yourself that you are going to
discover he is heir to a large fortune, because
he says he's not ; and though I'm sure he's
awfully clever, he don't seem quite to know
how to turn his abilities to account," continued
Nid. "It is embarrassing, that, you know,
papa ; I really should not know myself
whether to embark in tragedy or comedy."

Tragedy, child, with your figure," cried
her father, laughing.

I won't be laughed at," cried the girl, with
a petulant shrug of her shoulders. " I'm not
so very small as all that, and I'm not done
growing yet — I presume I'm big enough for
Juliet, any way."

Never mind, darling, it will be time
enough to think of that a year or two hence.
Have you seen or heard anything of Cudemore
lately, Nydia ? I want to see him if he is in
town."

Yes ; he was at the Syringa about three
weeks since, and has called here twice since.
Once wee were out, and once we saw him.
I don't care much about him myself, Jim ;
but, of course, I knows he is a business friend
of yours, and therefore I am always civil ;
still I don't want him hangings round here."

I shouldn't think he's very likely to
trouble you in that way," replied Foxborough.

I don't know," replied his wife, significantly.


He really is a nuisance, papa ; and Mr.
Morantt, who met him the last time he was
here, denounced him as an awful — an awful,
what was it ? Oh, yes, I know — cad."

Well, it is necessary that I should see
him on a little matter of business. In the
mean while, how is the Syringa doing ? "

Very well indeed. I don't say we haven't
done better, but we can't complain. I'll just
get the books and run over them with you.
The receipts are well ahead of the outgoings."

** If you two are going to talk business, I
shall run away till you have done," cried
Nid.

Do, my dear," replied her mother. " We
shan't be very long, but your father and I
must have a business talk, and perhaps the
sooner it's over the better. You don't want
Cudemore to find you money, do you ? " she
inquired, anxiously, as Md left the room.

That's just it," replied her husband.

Oh, dear, James ! You know what a
terrible price he always makes us pay for it.
I was in hopes now we were at last clear,
that we should never have to go to him
again. Besides, look at the books, there's a
real good balance at the bank. Leave me
£500 to go on with, and you can take the
rest. I must have something in hand incase
of a bad time at the Syringa — the salary
list is so large."

It's not near enough, Nydia ; I want a
good deal more than that."

Why, surely you can't have had such a
disastrous campaign as that. I don't know-where
you've been exactly ; I never do know,
but "

"Tat, tut," he interrupted, "this is a different
thing altogether. I am suddenly called
upon to find money for a speculation I embarked
in some years ago.

But raise it somewhere else, Jim. I
have particular reasons for wishing you not
to get deep in Cudemore's books just now."

Why particularly just now ? " with a
look of no little surprise. " It's bad anytime,
I grant you ; but why worse now ? "

"Because, you see, Nid is fast becoming a
woman, and I feel pretty sure that Mr.
Cudemore admires her."

Why, she's a mere child yet, and as for
Cudemore, he's old enough to be her father,"
exclaimed Foxborough, in utter bewilderment.


'' Nid wants only a few days of seventeen,

VOL. I. H

and Mr. Cudemore, though much older than
her, is only some five or six-and-thirty after
all. I don't think he would consider himself
a bit too old to marry her."

I don't suppose such an idea has ever
entered his head. You women always think
that the world is in a conspiracy to rob you
of your daughters as soon as they become
marriageable."

We are better judges than you, Jim,
believe me," retorted Mrs. Foxborough, smiling.
" You men never suspect a wedding,
though the whole preliminaries go on under
your nose, until you're asked to the breakfast.
Once more, I say, I am very sorry
that you must have recourse to Mr. Cudemore,
but if you must there's no use saying anything
more about it."

"You're a sensible woman, Nydia ; and
I'd take your advice in a minute if I could,
but I must have the money at once, and I
do not see my way as to finding it without

Cudemore's help. He'll advance it, I daresay,
on the security of the Syringa, though
no doubt I shall have to pay stiffish interest."
Mrs. Foxborough sighed. It was not quite
two years ago since they had cleared off the
last mortgage on the Syringa, and the music-hall
had at last become to them a really
lucrative property. Previously they had had
to be content with scarce a moiety of the
actual profits, Mr. Cudemore and one or two
others sharing very considerably in the success
of the enterprise. It seemed a pity,
Mrs. Foxborough thought, not to keep so
flourishing a concern in their own hands, and
though she was fain to admit that the capital
which had enabled them to build and open the
Syringa had been acquired by these country
speculations of her husband, yet she did wish
he would abandon them now, live quietly at
home with her, and devote his whole energies
to the management of the music-hall. True,
she could and did rule that establishment

H 2

most successfully herself, but she wished to
have her husband always with her. These
enforced separations were all very well when
they were battling with this world in their
early days, but now they had established a
a business that would keep them comfortably,
and enable them to provide for Nid ; what
more did they want ? She was tired of this
perpetual grass widowhood ; what reason now
was there for its continuance ? All this did
Mrs. Foxborough urge, by no means for the
first time, on her husband ; but he replied
that it was not so easy to withdraw from
some of the speculations he had embarked
in as she imagined.

I am engaged, Nydia, in other things than
country theatrical companies ; and though,
darling, I would like nothing better than todo
as you say, and have done with them all,
it is just now as impossible as it is to do
without having recourse to Cudemore."

I can only say once more, Jim, I'm

awfully sorry ; but you know best. How
long am I to have you with me this time ? "

'* Very few days, I am sorry to say. Don't
look so disappointed. I shall settle down
and become the most humdrum of husbands
before long, I dare say."

"Have you two done all your sums?"
laughed Nid, as she entered the room.
When mamma gets to her books, as she
calls those awful-looking ledgers, I always
run away. Do you know she threatened to
teach me housekeeping the other day, and
I felt just as I did before I fell sick of the
measles."

"It is a thing you will most likely find
the want of some day," replied her mother.

"Oh no! oh no! if lie is not rich enough
to keep a housekeeper hell have to do the
books himself," said Nid. " I can't add up,
and I know they cheat me dreadfully in
my change at the shops."

Under which circumstances," observed

lier father, " unless he happens to be wealthy
I shall send him about his business'

*that responsibility would rest with me,
sir," replied Nid, with a mock courtesy.
'' Your posing, as the tyrannical and despotic
father, would make even the elephants at
the Zoological over the way trumpet with
indignation."

At this moment there was a sharp knock
at the door,

A little late for a visitor," exclaimed
Mrs. Foxborough. " I wonder who it is ? "

Nonsense," said Nid, " it is Mr. Morantt,
of course ; and placing herself at the door,
she threw herself into a theatrical attitude,
and as it opened exclaimed, melodramatically,
Papa, my preserver ! "

If ever a young lady looked a little nonplussed
it was Nid, as Mr. Cudemore quietly
entered the room, and bowing low in answer
to her exclamation, rejoined, *' Delighted, I
am sure, to hear it, Miss Foxborough, although

quite unaware I had been so fortunate. How
do do, Foxborough," he continued, turning
to the manager, and bowing to his wife. " I
heard incidentally at the Syringa that you
were back, and came up just to shake hands
with you."

Mr. Cudemore had an astonishing knack of
hearing things incidentally.

Ah ! I had no idea they even knew of my
arrival, but any way you are just the man I
want to see. Tell them, Nydia, to put the
tray in my den, and when you have said
How do you do ' to the ladies we will
adjourn there for a cigar."

That under these circumstances Mr. Cude-
more's respects to the ladies was a thing
speedily accomplished may be readily conceived,
and in something like ten minutes he and his
host were seated in a snug room at the back of
the house, employed in the congenial task of
selecting a cigar from one or two open boxes.

These if you like 'em pretty full-flavoured,

but try those small pale fellows if you like 'em
mild, and now what will you take to drink.
There's the usual triumvirate, brandy, gin, and
whisky, and seltzer behind you. Help yourself."

Where have you been ? Did you do
pretty well on tour ? " inquired Mr. Cudemore,
as he lit a cigar.

'* Never mind that ; I want to talk to you
about something else."

'' Money 1 " asked Cudemore, with a slight
elevation of the eyebrows. " Ah 1 " he continued,
m answer to the other's nod of assent,
I thought so. When people want a quiet
talk with me it's always on that topic.
Money never was scarcer than it is just now."

That, according to my experience, is its
normal state," replied Foxborough quietly,
more especially whenever I want to borrow
any."

*' Do you want much," inquired the moneylender,
languidly, for Mr. Cudemore was not
at all of the old conventional type, but rather

affected the languid man of fashion, though
his dark eyes watched his companion with a
glance keen as a hawk.

"Yes, a good bit. I want £6000."

That'll take some finding. What do you
want it for ? "

"That's my affair, and no business of the
lender. The security is."

'' Ah, yes, the security, what about that 1 "
said Cudemore, softly.

Aye], the same as before — the Syringa —
the plant there is worth the money pretty
well, and then there's the building, with, as
you know, a pretty long lease to run, as they
gave me a fresh one when I undertook to
erect the present house. However, you know
all about it ; you've had it in pledge before."

Yes ; but not for quite so heavy a sum,
my friend."

No ; but you were not the sole mortgagee
then. You will be this time. There's no lien
whatever on the Hall."

If that's the case, I'll see what I can do,"
replied Cudemore slowly. " You don't want
this money immediately, I suppose ? "

Well, no, not quite ; in a month or six
weeks will do."

Very good ; I'll see about it ; but you'll
have to pay more than five per cent. I don't
think the security will be considered quite
good enough to do it at conventional prices."

It should be. The security's good enough,
and you know it," returned the manager.

*' It may be, but people are whimsy on
these points, and I doubt finding a client
except at a tempting price. You might die or
go broke, and then there might be a difficulty
about getting a good man to carry on the
concern ; and where's the interest to come
from if the Syringa shuts up ? "

They could always foreclose and recover
their capital," retorted Foxborough.

Oh, I don't know, nothing is so fluctuating
in value as theatrical property. However,

I'll do the best I can for you. No,
nothing more, thank you ; it's time I was off.
Good night," and Mr. Cudemore took his
departure.

"A point or two in my game," muttered
that worthy, as he strolled homewards. " I
wonder what Jim Foxborough wants with
£6000."

CHAPTER V.

THE CRICKET MATCH.

Mr. Totterdell, having achieved, if not
quite the object of his ambition, yet a provincial
imitation of it, felt that it behoved
him to be busy. Was he not the elect of the
Town Council of Marlborough, and had not
the eminent Mr. Stanger approved of his
maiden effort at legislation ? New brooms are
proverbial for their investigation of nooks
and corners. Mr. Totterdell was an idle man,
and, it may be remembered, possessed with an
insatiable spirit of curiosity concerning his
neighbours, assiduously inquiring into the
working: of local rates : and the financial affairs
of the Town Council enabled him to pick up

information in a manner that might almost
bear comparison with Dame Eleanor Spearing
in Hood's famous ' Tale of a Trumpet.' The
man was fast becoming a positive plague to
Marlborough.

Nothing, perhaps, puzzled Mr. Totterdell
more at the time than John Fossdyke's extraordinary
indifference to the erection of the
theatre. He had been the chief promoter of
the scheme ; he had taken a prominent part in
carrying it through the Town Council, and now
he seemed utterly indifferent as to its completion.
He took no interest in its buildings
it was by this time begun, and was
progressing rapidly. He never went near it,
and if appealed to and reminded of his
professed knowledge of things theatrical,
replied, " I know nothing of the construction
of theatres ; such things are best left to the
architect." He had no doubt it would bean
improvement thoroughly appreciated by
Marlborough when they got it ; in the meantime

the unfortunate contractor was suffering
quite sufficient impediment and annoyance
already from the interference of fussy busybodies
without his becoming an additional clog
on his endeavours ; and with this parting shot
at Mr. Totterdell, who had gradually attained
the position of his here noir, the Town Clerk
closed further discussion.

John Fossdyke was by no means the only
man who beo^an to regret the election of Mr.
Totterdell to the Town Council. Baum-borough
was probably no whit more corrupt
than its neighbours, nor even than that great
windy Town Council of the nation which it
so assiduously copied ; but, as every one knows
is considerable give and take in all such
assemblies, and an amicable understanding
that you wink at my little job and I wink at
yours " is the unwritten law of all parliaments,
local or national. But what was to be done
with a man who, instead of promoting schemes
of his own, spent his whole time in stripping

the drapery off those of his fellows ? Promote
what you may, and it immediately becomes
your business to demonstrate to the public
that it will fill their pockets, that it will, if it
succeeds, undoubtedly fill yours is an incident
that it would be egotism to dwell upon. Mr.
Totterdell, in his laudable desire for information
and the doing of his duty as a Town
Councillor, was always exposing this particular
phase of his brethren's legislation ; not intentionally,
but nothing can lead to such mischief
sooner than fatuous questioning in these matters.
Even Mr. Stanger had been led, in a moment
of exasperation at some unexpected side-light
being suddenly cast upon some pet project of
his own, to stigmatize Mr. Totterdell as ''a
mere malignant interrogator that had lately
crept into their midst." Still, though abandoned
of the great Stanger, Mr. Totterdell was
not without a small following. There are
always some people left out in the cold at all
distributions of the loaves and fishes, and

these are keenly alive to criticism of their
more fortunate brethren.

It is a most extraordinary thing, Mary,
that your husband should run away in this
manner," said Mr. Totterdell, comfortably
ensconced in his pet easy-chair in his goddaughter's
drawing-room at Dyke. " This
theatre was his own pet hobby, and now,
instead of stopping to look after it, he goes
off nobody knows where. I have to do
everything ; the architect is very pig-headed,
and will insist upon having his own way.
Fossdyke knows I don't understand everything
about theatres, and yet he leaves everything
to me. They are all alike, the whole Council,
even Stanger gets abusive the minute one
tries to make oneself useful ; called me a
malignant something or other yesterday because
I asked a question connected with the
paving and lighting rate. He's a director of
the Gas Company, you know, and I thought
was just the man to tell me."

*' Humour says the Gas Company have got
a preposterously high contract, and are making
a very good thing out of the lighting of
Marlborough," said Miss Hyde, who was present,
and appeared to possess a considerable
sense of the ludicrous.

*' And how was I to get at that fact without
inquiring? How does one get at any
fact without using one's tongue ? " rejoined
Mr. Totterdell, testily. " Providence gave us
tongues for the purpose of asking questions.
I suppose you will admit that ? "

Well, I never heard that laid down as
their special feature in our organization," rejoined
Bessie, laughing, " though I'll admit
that is a use some of us are apt to principally
put them to."

'you may depend upon it, when you become
a public man," and Mr. Totterdell rolled this
out in unctuous tones, as if the eyes of Europe
were upon him, " there is nothing like looking
into things. Now there's your husband, Mary

VOL. I. I

a good man of business, no doubt, but he
was about to make the mistake of levying
an extra rate to pay for this theatre till I
pointed out how much better it would be to
use the money we bad out at mortgage."

I dont think my husband quite agreed
with you on that point," rejoined Mrs.
Fossdyke. " He said something about the
imprudence of trespassing on your reserve
sand."

This was rather a mild way of putting
John Fossdyke's comments on Mr. Totterdell's
proposal He had stigmatized that gentleman
to his wife as a doddering, inquisitive, fussy,
mischief-making old idiot.

Fiddle-de-dee, I am quite as much a
business man as John ; but this is just what
it is — no sooner do the Town Council find
they have got a hard-working, business man
among them, than they leave him to pull
the whole coach. Nobody ever comes near
this theatre but me. I've half a mind to

resign, and be pestered ^itli it no longer'
and Mr. Totterdell looked round at the two
ladies a little inc|iiisitivelj to see how they
received this mendacious statement.

He would no more have voluntarily resigned
his seat in the Council than his life,
and had a dim suspicion that his hearers
were perfectly aware of that fact.

At this moment the door opened, and the
footman announced "Mr. Soames, ma'am !"

"Now what on earth can that young
brewer want here again?" ejaculated Mr.
Totterdell.

Mrs. Fossdyke cast a mischievous glance
at Bessie and burst out laughing,' somewhat
to the discomposure of the young lady, who
coloured, bit her lips, and made a slight
deprecatory motion of her hand as Philip
Soames entered the room. A tall, dark,
good-looking young fellow, and upon this
occasion attired in flannels and white shoes,
Phil looked the picture of a young athlete,

I 2

and at boating, cricket, or lawn-tennis Phil
Soames could hold his own very fairly. He
had gone through the usual course of the
offspring of the plutocracy now-a-days, been
sent to Eton to make acquaintance with the
sprouting nobility, graduated at Cambridge,
and finally, after some one or two continental
excursions, been called upon to take
his place in the firm. There was not an
atom of nonsense about Phil Soames ; he and
his got their living by beer, and the young
one had never had any false shame about
the mash-tub. There was a university story
about Phil, often quoted in his favour.

It was at some late supper-party, of which
the majority of the company were of the
aristocratic order, when some eldest scion of
a ducal family rather twitted him with his
fathers avocation.

All right, Skendleby," he rejoined, laughing,
" bear in mind the world grows more
democratic daily, and it is quite possible the

time will come when it can do without dukes,
but there's no fear of its trying to get on
without brewers. Hops, sir, will be to the
fore when strawberry leaves are considerably
at a discount."

If Phil Soames' path in life had been left
entirely to his own discretion it was odds he
had elected otherwise, but he was a shrewd,
sensible young man, and when it was put
plainly to him that he ought to prepare to
take his father's place in the very thriving
concern the brewery was, Phil at once responded
to the call, and went in with a will,
as he said, to learn his trade.

I have come, Mrs. Fossdyke, to persuade
you to honour the cricket-field with your
presence, to remind you and Miss Hyde that
Marlborough has been bearded by Banbury,
that we shall have a band playing all the
afternoon, and tea properly set forth at the
canonical hour. All Marlborough ladies are
bound to share our triumph, or weep o'er

our defeat. Don't you think so, Miss
Hyde?"

I think we are bound to crown you with
bays if triumphant, which in these days means
applaud till our gloves split. But if beaten,
Monsieur, don't come to us for pity ; and,"
she continued, speaking, " I'll not believe such
a thing could be. Don't you remember your
grand victory over the Bunbury men last
year? AVell, we" are coming down to see
you-play another such innings, are we not,
Mrs. Fossdyke ? "

Yes, Bessie, I think if Mr. Soames will
give us some tea as he promises, it will bea
very pleasant way of passing the afternoon."

Phil Soames murmured a grateful assent,
which was undoubtedly genuine. The recalling
of our former triumphs by a pretty woman
is one of the most insidious forms of feminine
flattery, and one which, accompanied by a
triumphant smile, as if they participated in
the glory of the day, invariably knocks over

the male creature. It ought to be held unlawful,
and deemed as unfair as shooting a hare
on its seat. So it was settled that the whole
party should come and take tea on the cricket-ground,
and witness, it was to be hoped, the
triumph of the Marlborough eleven, under
the captaincy of Phil Soames, having extorted
which promise that young gentleman took his
departure.

Mrs. Fossdyke had for some time noticed
Mr. Soames' growing: admiration for Bessie,
and, to say the truth, was very well satisfied
with it, and had encouraged it unostentatiously
not a little. She had come to regard the
girl almost as her own daughter, as also had
her husband. AVho had they to leave their
money to but her, for neither of them had
any near relatives, nor did they care much
about the few they had. Mrs. Fossdyke
thought it would be a very suitable match,
and though she could not but foresee it was
quite possible the Siamese might not like

it, yet she Fancied Phil was a young man
likely to insist on his own way in a point of
this kind. She gave the young man credit
for plenty of determination and strength of
character, and in this she did him only justice.
The point she had so far overlooked was, that
Bessie was not Miss Fossdyke but Miss Hyde,
and it was her godfather's perpetual vague
inquisitiveness as to " where did she come
from" that first made her remember that
question would naturally be asked by the
Soames family in the event of any engagement
between Phil and Bessie.

She questioned the girl, who adhered to her
original story that she had been brought up
by her aunt, and that when she grew up she
had found that home uncomfortable. When
questioned about her parents, Bessie grew
strangely reticent. She believed her father
was dead, and declined to say anything about
her mother ; further than she had a mother
alive, Mrs. Fossdyke could elicit nothing.

Thanks to her godfather's insatiable curiosity,
Mrs. Fossdyke found herself for the first time
in her life face to face with a mystery — nay,
more, as she dwelt upon the fact she pictured
herself surrounded by mystery. The situation
had its charm ; to a woman who had so far
led a humdrum life there was an astonishing
salt given to existence by the very idea. Her
imagination speedily supposed an occult connection
between her husband's continual
absences and Bessie Hyde — John had introduced
her into the house. Was Bessie his
daughter by a former wife or, more possibly,
still livings mistress ? The girl admitted she
had a mother alive, but declared that she had
never known her father, and believed him to
be dead. This staggered Mrs. Fossdyke. She
was a clear-headed, good, plain, common-sense
woman. She might not be clever, but was
better calculated to get on in this world than
many that are. She reflected that she had
always found Bessie Hyde eminently truthful,

and the sfhi never wavered nor hesitated m her
account of her father. About her mother she
refused to talk, and as to what station in life
she might be in, Mrs. Fossdyke could learn
nothing. Still, though after turning it over
carefully in her own mind the good lady discarded
this first solution of the riddle, the
question yet remained as to where did she
come from, and what was the business that
occasioned these mysterious absences of her
husband, and there was little fear that these
problems were likely to escape her mind while
Mr. Totterdell remained a constant visitor at
Dyke.

The Baumborouo^h cricket round was a
pretty sight this afternoon, thronged as it was
with the townspeople and neighbourhood. It
was very different from the great annual
picnics at Lord's, on the occasions of the
University or Public School matches. Most
of the ladies here knew something of the game,
had relatives or friends engaged in it, for

Baumborougli was situated in the hop counties,
in which cricket had its birth, and is at this
present more unclerstanded of the people than
it is in the north. Was it not a Maid of Kent
who invented round-hand Lowlinfy in accordance
with the dictates of nature, unfavourable
in women, to the underhand method, and
laudably desirous of curbing the conceit of her
brothers ? There were four marc[uees at one
end of .the ground. Two of these were dedicated
to the club and their guests, and the
other two were open to the public ; but all
four seemed flowing with milk and honey.
Two bands alternately rattled off gay, lively
music, the one that of the Channelshire
Yeomanry from Chatterton, the other that of
The Marlborough Own''

I'm alluding, of course, to the local volunteers,"
as the old burlesque song says.

It was altogether a very pretty sight when
Mrs. Fossdyke and Bessie, accompanied by
Mr. Tottered], made their appearance upon

the ground. It was an annual match, and
whether Marlborough or Bunbury were the
better men was a subject of considerable
interest to the dwellers therein. This year
the first trial of strength had taken place at
Bunbury, and, after a fiercely-contested game,
had terminated in favour of the home team.
That Marlborough should be keen to wipe off
this defeat was but natural, and Marlborough
could urge with justice that she had not been
enabled to exhibit her real strength in the first
contest. Mr. Soames had been prevented
playing, for instance, in consequence of a
strained wrist, and both as a bat and wicket-keeper
he was an irreplaceable loss to his side.
Bunbury had just been disposed of as Mrs.
Fossdyke and her companions arrived upon
the ground, for a stubborn and somewhat unexpectedly
protracted second innings, leaving
their adversaries 153 to win. It was not a
disheartening score altogether, but it was one
that took a good deal of putting together

among county elevens. Baumborougli had
begun so well, had got rid of two or three of
their adversaries' best men at such a comparatively
cheap rate, that they had felt rather
astounded at the stand made by the tail of the
Bunbury team. It is so at times, a good bat
or two get set, and rather beat the bowling,
and the last wickets knock up runs in an
almost unaccountable fashion. But now it is
Marlborough's turn, and Phil Soames sends
to the wickets Tom Dumps, the most imperturbable
sticker, and a Mr. Herring, a careful
bat, one who can hit a bit when he gets fairly
in. As for the redoubtable Dumps, he has
been known to pass an afternoon at the wicket
without adding twenty runs to the score. He
is the sort of bat bowlers despise and hate.
He never takes liberties, never goes out of his
ground, and never hits ; he guards his stumps,
and now and again pokes one successfully away
for a single ; but he is nevertheless a very
useful man at the start, always difficult to get

rid of, and calculated to weary the attack of
the enemy. Dogged, passive resistance is
wont to aggravate, and inert defence to be the
most exasperating of opposition, and the adversaries
of Marlborough were always no little
pleased to get rid of Tom Dumps.

We learn from Horace, Homer sometimes
nods," and upon this occasion the renowned
Dumps was also caught napping, for before he
had blocked, played, or poked some half-score
balls, one ran up his bat, and dropped an easy
catch into the hands of point. There was no
slight dismay in the Marlborough camp at
this unexpected casualty, but when Mr.
Herring speedily followed suit, and also succumbed
to the enemy's bowling, Phil Soames
saw that demoralization was fast setting in
amongst his followers. They were beginning
to apprehend there must be something more
than met the eye in the Bunbury bowling ;
and in cricket, as in war, the establishment
of a funk is festal. Soames was equal to the

occasion. He saw, like a great commander,
that the time had come when it behoved him
to place himself in front of the battle, and,
with a few courteous words of apology, established
Mrs. Fossdyke and Bessie in the ladies'
tent, and seizing his bat, went forth to do or
die for Baumborou^h,

Phil Soames's arrival at the wicket threw
quite a new aspect on the game. He played
a few balls easily, but quietly, just to get his
eye in, and then he began to hit freely. His
partner acquired confidence from the way his
captain " slipped into " the bowling, and runs
came fast ; and when Phil had to mourn his
companion's departure, the aspect of the game
was entirely changed. The telegraph board
showed 68 runs for three wickets, and the
Marlborough Captain's record was "35 not
out." Further, his men had recovered confidence,
and stood up to their adversaries' attack
with plenty of reliance on themselves.

Mr. Totterdell meanwhile was making

himself a most insufferable nuisance in the tent.
It is not easy to explain cricket to any one
who does not understand it, and that was just
Mr. Totterdell's position. He wanted to know
why a man was out 1 why one man went in
before another ? He wanted to know all
about the financial state of the club, for ever
since his memorable hit about raising the
money for the theatre, Mr. Totterdell imagined
he had much genius for finances, and panted
to reform all existing institutions in Baum-borough
on this head ; had, indeed, been
particularly anxious in respect to the calling
in of that mortgage he had suggested to the
Municipal Council, but the clerks in J john Foss-dyke's
office declined to give him any information
in the absence of their principal, while
two or three cronies to whom he mentioned it
opined that the Town Clerk was best left to do
the town's business. Gradually people steal
away from Mr. Totterdell's vicinity. Those
who, in their good nature, had attempted to

appease his thirst for knowledge, felt aghast at
the incubus they had saddled themselves with,
and, execrating their weakness, passed over to
the other side the marquee, or out into the
sunshine. Mrs. Fossdyke alone remains near
her godfather.

The game is getting now liigUy exciting ;
after a well-played and most useful innings
to his side, a good many of whom he has
seen succumb during his stay at the wickets,
Phil Soames fell a victim to a smart bit of
fielding of the Bunbury men while rashly
endeavouring to steal a somewhat risky run.
Quite an ovation meets him as he walks back
to the marquee, which the seventy-four to
his name on the telegraph board thoroughly
justifies. Marlborough have now fifteen
runs to get, and three wickets still to be
disposed of.

Pray accept our congratulations, Mr.
Soames," exclaimed Bessie Hyde, with a
radiant smile, as she extended her hand.

VOL. I. K

'' You came nobly to the rescue at a time
when things were looking: very sad for us.
We shall beat them now, don't you think so ? "

We can only hope so. It will probably
be a very close thing. We have only one
man we can rely on much for the runs left ;
but have you had some tea ? "

Oh dear, yes ; I have been well taken care
of, thank you."

"Then come for a stroll with me. Now
the sun is low, it is pleasant outside than
in the tent."

They accordingly stepped forth amongst the
throng that were promenading about this end
of the cricket-field, and Soames had to stop
more than once to receive congratulations
from his enthusiastic fellow townsmen on his
successful innings.

'' Let us get a little out of the crowd,
Miss Hyde. I am no doubt as conceited as
most people, but I am ashamed to be complimented
any more before you. I expect

you to laugh at me. As if no fellow ever
put up seventy runs before."

'all," laughed Bessie, "I am afraid the
vanity peeps out in that very speech. It is
not so much that you got seventy-four runs,
but that you got them for Marlborough when
she needed them sorely."

"I stand properly rebuked," he replied,
with an amused smile. " What a terrible
analyzer of human motives you are. I feel
almost afraid of you. Don't you find it rather
trying seeing so much of Mr. Totterclell ? I
declare I never call at Dyke without finding
him, and if he makes himself half as unpleasant
there as he does in other places,
you must have a hard time of it. I can't
think how Fossdyke stands it. I don't
wonder he is a good deal away."

I am afraid Mr. Totterdell is doing unwittingly
a great deal of mischief at Dyke,'
replied the girl, gravely.

'•'How so?"

K 2

Mr. Fossdyke dislikes him, to begin with ;
in the next place, he is always inquiring into
Mr. Fossdyke's affairs, and Mr. Fossdyke
naturally resents that. Most men would."

"Certainly; but 1 don't see he is doing
much mischief in that. He is committing
an impertinence," said Phil, "for which
John Fossdyke is just the man to snub him
handsomely."

No, but he has infected Mrs. Fossdyke
with his own ungovernable curiosity, and she
now has taken to questioning her husband
about his business affairs. I assure you Mr.
Totterdell has made Dyke so uncomfortable
that I am very much afraid I must
leave it."

You leave Dyke — nonsense. Miss Hyde —
why how can this affect you ? "

That I cannot tell you, but it does."

They walked on for some little time in
silence. Phil Soames was under no delusion
with regard to his feelings for Bessie. He

knew that he loved her frankly and honestly,
and had quite made up his mind to marry
her if he could. If he had not as yet asked
her to be his wife it was from no uncertainty
of purpose on his part, but simply because
he was afraid what her answer might be.
She liked him well enough, no doubt, danced
a good deal with him, and was always well
content to have him assisted as her cavalier
at dinner-party or picnic, but he'd a shrewd
suspicion Miss Hyde would look for rather
more in a partner for life than a partner ina
ball-room or at lawn tennis. It must be
borne in mind that Marlborough was not
aware of Miss Hyde's exact position at Dyke.
They looked upon her as a niece or some
relation of Mr. Fossdyke, now recognized as
his adopted daughter, and accepted her as
such. Marlborough, no doubt, in the first
instance, had regarded Bessie as "a poor
relative," and rather a dependant, but the
way she had always been treated by the

Fossdykes had speedily made them adopt
the other view. Neither the Town Clerk nor
his wife had ever announced Bessie's exact
status in their house, but had left Baum-borough
to draw its own deductions, and
Marlborough was certainly justified by appearances
in the conclusion it had come to ;
but of course the result was that Miss Hyde
was regarded as a young lady who would
probably bring her husband a good bit of
money, not perhaps at the time, but in years
to come. A pretty girl with these prospects
is not wont to want wooers, and therefore
Bessie stood in a very different position in
Phil Soames's eyes to what she held in reality.
He doubted whether he had made sufficient
progress in the girl's good graces to risk asking
her to be his wife, and thought a premature
avowal of his love might be fatal to
his hopes. His remark, when he did open
his lips, was by no means of a sentimental
character.

The confounded old idiot," he muttered,
half aloud.

You mean Mr. Tottered], I presume,"
said Bessie. " He certainly is not discreet,
and things went on more pleasantly at Dyke
before his arrival in Marlborough, undoubtedly."


Why on earth does not John Fossdyke
kick him out of the house," asked Phil.

He could hardly shut the door in the
face of his wife's godfather ; and you might
as v\'ell hint to a rhinoceros that he was not
wanted as to Mr. Totterdell."

"I'd make him understand it, though, if
I were Fossdyke ; but never mind him.
Why must you go ? "

I have told, you that Dyke has become
so uncomfortable ; I cannot tell you
more."

"When do you mean going?" asked. Phil,
persistently.

Oh, I can't say exactly ; besides, it really

can't concern you, Mr. Soames," replied Miss
Hyde, somewhat coquettish.

You know very well it concerns me very
deeply ; you know, Bessie."

"Stop," interrupted the girl. "I declare
we have foro-often all about the cricket. What
does that cheer mean ? Is that victory for
Baumborouo^h ? "

Phil glanced for a moment at the telegraph
board.

Yes," he replied, " we have won by two
wickets. But never mind that just now. I
have something to say to you, something
that I have wanted to say to you for sometime."


"No, not now, please. I really must go
and look after Mrs. Fossdyke," exclaimed
Bessie, hurriedly ; and she turned abruptly
to walk in the direction of the tents, but
almost immediately felt her wrist clasped
gently, but firmly.

"I have o-ouQ too far, or not far enough,"

said Phil, in low tones. 'you must hear
me out now, Bessie."

They had gained in their stroll the opposite
side of the cricket-ground to the marquees,
and that, never much patronized by the
lookers-on,' was now entirely deserted.

Stay one moment," said the girl, quietly,
releasing her wrist, and fronting him ; " listen
to me Before you speak. You think I am a
relative of Mr. Fossdyke, and his adopted
daughter, probably heiress to his property.
Is it not so ? "

He bowed his head in assent.

I am nothing of the kind ; I am no relation
to him whatever. I am Mrs. Fossdyke's
paid companion, at a salary of eighty pounds
a year, though she has never allowed me to
realize the position. Now, Mr. Soames, perhaps
you will take me across the ground towy
mistress'' and the girl drew herself up
defiantly.

Yes, when I have said what I have got

to say. What you have told me astonishes
me somewhat, but surely, Bessie, you don't
think so meanly of me as to think it could
make the slightest difference. You know I
love you. Bessie, will you be my wife ? " and
as he finished he once more possessed himself
of her hand.

She dropped her eyes, and for a few minutes
he could see the colour come and go in her
cheeks, and once she essayed vainly to speak.
He could not understand her emotion, and
when she at length found her voice, it came
hard and mechanically, and she spoke like
one repeating a lesson.

I thank you deeply for the honour you
have done me, but I cannot marry you, Mr.
Soames."

'* Why not ? " he asked curtly, and in his
excitement he crushed the hand he held
almost savagely in his own. She uttered
a slight cry and he released her. *' Is it that
you cannot love me ? "

'' No,'"' she replied, as lier voice shook and
the tears gathered in her eyes, "it is not that.
I 'coidd love you. God help me, I do love
you, Philip, but I cannot be your wife''

But why not ? You own you love me.
In a worldly point of view I am well able
to take care of you, and honestly hope to win
the consent of the Fossdykes as well as your
friends to our marriage. I love you for
your own sweet self. What reason can
there be that you should send me away
miserable ? "

I cannot tell you. I only know that I
can never marry any one until he knows
all about me ; and I have not the courage to
tell my story to you."

Bessie, my darling, this is sheer nonsense.
That you can have done anything in your
young life that is bitter shame to you I'll
not believe. You are shrinking from a
phantom horror of your own imagining."

'' No, indeed I am not. Please, please,

Philip, take me across to Mrs. Tossdyke.
See, people are beginning to leave the ground."

** Upon one condition, that you promise to
tell me why you cannot marry me within the
next three days."

No, I cannot promise that, indeed I
cannot."

"Well, will you promise me this, not to
give me my answer decidedly till the expiration
of that time ? "

Bessie hesitated for a minute or so, and
then replied, —

Yes, if you wish it ; but it is not fair
to you. I feel I shall only have to repeat
that I can never be your wife, Philip."

She said the last words slowly and almost
mournfully, and seemed to linger in almost
caressing manner over the utterance of her
lover's name.

Bessie, if you love me truly, Pll not
believe that you will give me the same
answer three days hence."

She only shook her head sadly as they
quickened their steps towards the now well-nigh
deserted marquees.

Why, mj dear Bessie, I thought you were
lost," exclaimed Mrs. Fossdyke ; " I have sent
messengers in all directions in search of you.
We can take credit for one thing, Mr. Soames,
we really are pretty well the last to withdraw
from the fields'

Very kind of you to come and so crown
our hard-won victory, Mrs. Fossdyke," said
Phil hastily, in order to cover his fair companion's
confusion, but the young lady knew
better than to compromise herself by making
any excuses.

*now, what on earth could that young
brewer have had to say to j\liss Hyde all
this time," muttered Mr. Totterdell. " I
never found him talkative myself."

CHAPTER VI.

MR. CUDEMOEE AT HOME.

Mr. Cudemore occupied a small house in
Spring Gardens, the ground floor of which he
had turned into offices. On the first he had
a dining-room, opening into a larger apartment,
fitted up as half smoking-room, half
library, while above he had his bed-room and
dressing-room. He islounmnof at the window
of this nondescript apartment on the first
floor this afternoon, engaged in earnest conversation
with a slight, fashionably-dressed
man, who seems more interested in the flower
in his button-hole than Mr. Cudemore's discourse.
Only he looked so indifferent he
midst have been deemed one of Mr. Cude-

more's clients ; but people who are engaged
in borrowing money seem usually more
absorbed in the business in hand. Mr.
Sturton was the well - known Bond - street
tailor, who had found it expedient to dono
little business with Mr. Oudemore. Sometimes
he wanted that gentleman's opinion
about bills he had received in the course of
legitimate business ; sometimes he wanted to
get some he considered doubtful discounted,
and Cudemore could very often get that done
at a considerable sacrifice among his brethren,
who will at times speculate in such commodities,
if they can pick them up at a
low rate, on the chance of their coming in
some day, when more legitimate traders
decline to have anything to say to such
paper. Further, Mr. Sturton at times advanced
money to his customers through the
medium of Cudemore. He never affected
to do such a thing himself, but when he had
every reason to believe they were men of

substance, would say, if they confided their
troubles to him, that he believed Mr. Cude-
more, of Spring Gardens, was a liberal
gentleman in that line.

Professing amongst his friends the most
democratic opinions, Mr. Sturton had a
sneaking regard for his aristocratic patrons,
and measured a marquis with an unctuous
admiration most edifying to witness. He
further affected a languid interest in the turf,
about which he knew nothing and cared
less ; but he thought it the proper thing todo,
and one of his aspirations was to be as
fashionable as his customers. It was of him
that the following anecdote was narrated: — •

Lady E., well known over the Leicestershire
grass country, once entered his shop,
accompanied by her liege lord, to give an
order.

I think I had the pleasure of seeing
your ladyship at the opera last night," remarked
Mr. Sturton, in his most dulcet tones.

*' Good gracious, Dick ! what does the man
mean ? " exclaimed the sporting countess.
Please tell him I've come to order a
habit."

Poor Mr. Sturton, he perhaps never was
more completely extinguished, and his talk
waxed more fiercely Radical than ever; and
though numbering many members of the
House of Lords on his books, yet he vehemently
demanded the extinction of the
Hereditary Chamber.

'' The security is excellent, I can vouch
for. However, of course I'll make that all
clear to you. I have got so much money
out just now that I can't quite manage this
business alone, and I am particularly anxious
to help Foxborough."

Why ? " lisped Mr. Sturton.

He might affect a languid, lisping manner,
but he was quite as keen a man of business
as the money-lender.

Well, it don't matter to you. I want

VOL. I. L

you to find half this money at ten percent.
— not quite such interest as we have
had, but then the security's better, and
I'll buy sou out again at the end of six
months."

I should rather like to know your object
in being particularly anxious to help Fox-borough.
That he is a friend, and that you
rather like him, is, you know, as well as I
do, no argument in money-lending, which
trade consists in obtaining the highest possible
interest at the lowest possible risk."

You needn't teach me my business,"
returned Cudemore ; " I'm not quite a fool
in it, as you must admit by this time. I
have mv reason for wish in 2: to have some
hold over James Foxborouo'h. I could fancy
your finding money for Lady Jane or Lord
Augustus with a similar view. What would
that be to me ? Nothing:. What concerns
me is, is it safe and good enough to risk
coin in. I tell you — nay, have shown you

this is ; what more do you want ? If it
isn't good enough for you, it will be, no
doubt, for somebody else," and Mr. Cudemore
threw himself back into his chair, as a man
whose argument is spent.

Now it is no use ofoins; on like that,"
rejoined the other, in his usual languid fashion.
Of course I am curious to know your special
interest in making this loan ; but there is
no necessity I should. Show me the security,
is all I say, and 111 find my share of the
money. I suppose that's sufficient," and Mr.
Sturton looked with keen glance at his companion.
He had no wish to quarrel with the
money-lender, had many excellent reasons
indeed for not doing so. Now what about
the bill of young Morantt's — is that good ?
I suppose you have made inquiries ? "

Yes, that's good enough. I fancy we
might go a little further with him if he
wants it. What is it for ? "

Part payment of his account. He was

L 2

hard up for ready money, a common complaint
among my customers, as you know."

Men don't quite expect to pay your
prices, Sturton, and not get credit. Like
the betting-ring, if you've only capital your
business is sure to be profitable in the long
run."

Yes ; only, like the book-makers, our bad
debts beat us at times," retorted Mr. Sturton,
a little sharply. " However, I suppose we
have nothing more to talk about. You'll
want this money pretty soon ? " he observed,
as he rose to depart.

At once. Jim Foxborough is coming
here to see me almost immediately about it.
I told them to show him into the office if
you had not left."

'* "Well, I am off now. You can depend
on me for the coin in the course of two
or three days. Adeo ! " and with this
Mr. Sturton leisurely disappeared from the
apartment.

Now for Foxborough, I must impose
terms upon him that won't be exactly in the
bond; but when a man wants money badly
he's apt to assent to a good deal he wouldn't
otherwise. Six thousand pounds, too, is not
quite so easy to borrow, even when your
security is pretty good. I wonder what he
wants it for : he always has been a close
man about his affairs, bar the Syringa, and
that I was too much in to be kept in the
dark about," soliloquized the money-lender.
'' He may have hit upon something of the
same sort down at Birmingham or Leeds,
promising to turn out as good a spec, as
the Syringa. Crafty beggar, don't mean to
have me in it this time, and perhaps he's
about right," and Cudemore indulged in a
dry chuckle, as he reflected over the money
he had made out of the Syringa. What
with advancing a few hundreds on loan at
usurious interest, and taking a share in the
venture, which it afterwards cost Foxborough

a pretty penny to get back into Lis own
bands, Cudemore had done uncommonly well
over that business.

A tap at the door, and the money-lender's
clerk announced that Mr. Foxborough was in
the office.

Show him up in five minutes, Cooper,"
rejoined Mr. Cudemore, as usual.

Mr. Cudemore's system was peculiar. His
offices consisted of three rooms communicating.
The outer and smaller one was tenanted
by the office boy, the second served for the
two clerks, the younger of whom was, though,
a boy of preternatural acuteness ; while the
inner sanctuary was reserved for the moneylender
himself. A second door enabled him,
if he pleased, to leave the room, and gain
the stairs leading to the rooms overhead.
If he was in the office the visitor was requested
to wait in the clerk's room ; if not,
he was ushered into Mr. Cudemore's sanctum,
and left to wait there. All known clients

were after a little delay sliowii up to the
first floor, but the unknown were invariably
interviews to commence with in the office,
the money-lender descending from above for
that purpose, " like a hawk upon a wild duck,"
as an imaginative victim once described it,
if he did not happen to be in his own private
den. The five minutes' wait was often very
much prolonged with a new or a shaky client,
especially with a new one. " It don't do to
have 'em thinking I sit here dying to lend
money," argued that gentleman ; " the sooner
they understand the difficulty of borrowing
it, the sooner they get reconciled to forty
per cent., and acquire a taste for rare wines,
fancy pictures, and other things that accompany
the last agonies." Except with very
big fish be in no hurry to strike, was the
money-lender's maxim, and he was doing a
pretty thriving trade.

"Mr. Foxborough, sir," said the clerk,
once more opening the door, and that

gentleman entered the room, to which this
was by no means his first visit.

Mr. Cudemore shook hands cordially with
his visitor, and immediately proffered a cigar
and a glass of amontillado.

"Unless you prefer a brandy and seltzer,"
he added, thoughtfully. " Your business looks
like coming all right, but we must have a
talk over it ; you see you want it so quickly."

Getting the money to go into a speculation
a month after the chance has prone bv
is not of much use," rejoined Jim Foxborough,
sententiously.

Ah, it's so urgent as that, is it ? You
must think it a very good thing to be so
sweet upon it ? "

Perhaps I do. It looks like it, or I
shouldn't be so anxious to borrow money
for it. It'll pay me pretty well, I fancy,
but remember what it may be is no business
of yours, nor have I any intention of telling

you."

"Well, as you say, it is no business of
mine further than that natural curiosity about
our fellows' concerns that becomes a habit of
my trade. You might want a few thousands
more, you see, my dear friend," and
Mr. Cudemore looked inquiringly at his visitor.
"We might even find that, if one knew what
it was for — "

Never fear, I shan't come to you for
them, even if I should. You might not think
the security good enough, you know. When
can I have this money ? "

Oh, in a few days, if we can arrange one
other trifling matter," rejoined Mr. Cudemore,
slowly. " The fact is," he continued, and
assuming: an air of honhommie, which did not
sit particularly well upon him, " T am getting
on, Foxborough, although I can still claim to
be a young man."

The proprietor of the Sting nodded.

It is getting time, in short, that I settled
down ; in fact, married."

Well, fire away," rejoined Foxborougli,
"I'm not your guardian. You don't want
my consent, nor, d — n me, I should think,
any one else's."

Excuse me, but you can't marry a girl
in this country without her consent, at all
events."

No, providing she's twenty-one ; except,
I'm told, in fashionable circles, and the higher
bred they are the less, I hear, they have to
say to it. However, Cudemore, I don't suppose
you have set your affections on

' A nobleman's daughter — a lady of rank ! ' "
sang Mr. Foxborough, ribaldry chanting a
well-known music-hall song of the day.

I'm talking to }'ou in earnest," said the
money-lender sternly ; " and the sooner you
understand that the better it will be for
both of us."

Foxborough immediately assumed a more
decorous manner. The idea of Cudemore's
marriage had rather tickled him, but he now

remembered men didn't like to be joked
on the point, and that "ridiculing the
noblest feelings of our nature," was always
an admittedly good text to go into a
passion upon and use strong and fervid
oratory.

I beg your pardon, Cudemore," he exclaimed,
'but the old fox that has lost his
tail must have his joke at the young one who
persists in entering the trap. I sincerely
trust you will be happy, and allow me to
be one of the wedding party."

He had utterly forgotten his wife's warning
on this point, had, in fact, deemed it so
ridiculous that he had no more idea of what
Cudemore was driving at than the veriest
stranger could have had.

Your absence could be scarcely spared on
the occasion," replied the money-lender a little
huskily, for he recognized that his visitor had
as yet no idea of what he meant. '' I want
your interest with Miss Foxborough in my

behalf, and your permission to make her my
wife."

You want to marry Nid ? Why, she's a
child. Preposterous ! impossible ! absurd ! "

'' I don't see anything absurd about it,"
replied Mr. Cudemore tartly ; for even money-lenders
when smitten of the tender passion areas
sensitive as other men. '' Many girls
marry young, and as for disparity of age,
the fifteen years between us is no more than
exists in hundreds of cases, and very often
there is a great deal more ! "

*' Why, the child's only fifteen or so,"
exclaimed Jim Foxborough in all honesty, for
that Nid was grown up nearly and turned
of seventeen had escaped his notice, as it
has that of many another father immersed in
business which took him much from home.

*' She's in her eighteenth year, I have her
mother's vvord for it, and I'm in my thirty-fourth,"
rejoined Mr. Cudemore.

Shouldn't have fancied you'd ever see

thirty-eight again," retorted Mr. Foxborough,
with undue discretion, for the money-lender
might have been anything between thirty and
forty almost.

It is just possible I may find the arrangement
of the loan not to be managed if we
can't come to some terms on this matter,"
returned Cudemore, grimly.

'' And by G-d, sir ! " exclaimed Foxborough,
if you think Nid is to be thrown in as a
bonus on the transaction you very much
mistake me. I'd sooner bust up and go to
prison than consent to such an iniquitous
agreement. I'll not pretend but that this
money is of great moment to me," he continued,
mastering his passion; "that the
speculation I want it for is — is a thing, in
fact, it is of urgent necessity ; but it is
possible, no doubt, to raise the funds elsewhere,
and I tell you again, sooner than trade
ray daughter away as if she was a slave-girl I'll
do without it altogether."

Mr. Cuclemore might be a little ruffled, but
the training of his profession had demonstrated
to him long ago the absurdity of losing his
temper. He could not, therefore, fail to mark
the incoherence of Jim Foxborough's speech.
To quarrel with him was the last thing he
intended. He had set his heart, as men of
his age do at times, on marrying a scarcely
emancipated school-girl. A rupture with her
father was not likely to assist his wishes, and
moreover, this proposed loan was a safe, comfortable
ten per cent, investment, with sundry
leo^al claro-es of which Mr. Cudemore mio-ht
count upon appropriating the lion's share, for
he had qualified as a solicitor, though he never
practised out of his own special business.

I don't see," he said at length, " that you
have anv call to o-et violent because I want to
marry your daughter. Miss Foxborough is a
sweet, pretty girl, and good, I believe, as she's
pretty. She's grown up, though you mayn't
see it ; will have plenty of sweethearts before

long, no doubt, and that I should ayant to be
first in the field was mere common prudence
on my part. I can give her a real good home.
She may have her carriage, and need have no
occasion to cut things fine in either her
milliners' bills or her housekeeping. I don't
know, as far as position goes, there's much to
choose between you and me. I don't want to
marry her against her inclination. I only
want your good wishes for my success, that's
all''

Jim Foxborough knew very well that was
not a bit what the money-lender had meant,
but it sounded all very plausible put in this
manner, and then again he was in somewhat
urgent need of this money.

I cannot say I wish it," he replied, after a
few moments' consideration. " I don't think
her mother wishes it, and I don't believe the
child herself has ever thought about it. I
don't think you are a suitable husband for
Nid. Hear me out," he continued, seeing the

other was about to interrupt him. " I know
you've got money, and can give her a good
home and all that, but still I doubt her
being happy with you. You've no tastes in
common."

Excuse me, Miss Foxborough's tastes are
artistic, so are mine''

The proprietor of the Syringa stared for a
moment in sheer amazement at the audacious
speaker. At last he rejoined drily :

"Well, I should hardly have thought them
so. I have no intention of interfering with
Nid's choice when she is old enough to know
her own mind. At present I undoubtedly
don't consider her so. It will be time enough
to talk about this a year or two hence, if you
still wish it. Now, about the money ? " and
Foxborough threw himself back, and strove to
affect an indifference to Cudemore's reply,
which no man endeavouring to borrow money
ever successfully achieved.

The money-lender felt he had failed signally

in his scheme so far, but he was much too
shrewd not to see that to come to a rupture
with Foxborough was certainly not the way to
improve his chance of marrying Foxborough' s
daughter. It was his interest to find the
money from every point of view, and the
pursuit of his own interests Mr. Cudemore
never neglected. Naturally, he replied the
money should be forthcoming.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER VIL

nid's advice."

Herbert Morantt has suddenly awakened
to the fact that he has made a confounded fool
of himself. The fact dawned upon him as he
lay in bed sipping his matutinal cup of tea
one summer morning in Morpeth Terrace, and
was brought home to his intelligence by the
perusal of sundry blue-looking epistles that
had just arrived, and which all contained more
or less urgent appeals for money, the culminating
shock being a polite intimation from Mr.
Sturton that his bill at ninety days' sight for
£100 would fall due on the following day, and
he trusted would be duly met at the expiration
of the ordinary three days' grace.

Mr. Morantt had been cursed, as lie himself
said, " with a small independence, just enough
to induce a man to do nothing, and not quite
enough to live upon." He was not particularly
extravagant, but he did what his associates
did, and that among young men, in the
heyday of youth, with excellent spirits and
unimpaired digestion, meant a good deal.
He assisted at most that was going on in
town, and do it as you will, that runs into
money. The consequence was, he was always
spending more than he had. This had already
twice necessitated dips into his limited capital,
followed, of course, by a corresponding reduction
of income, and it was now becoming clear
to him that a third call upon his principal was
imminent. It was disgusting very, just too ashe
had begun to think how nice it would be to
settle down and marry Nid Foxborough.

This must be looked into and put a stop
to at once," he exclaimed, as he sprang oat of
bed and into his bath, and for the next few

M 2

minutes there mio'ht have been heard a
wondrous splashing and sluicing, mixed
with muttered objurgations and sublime resolutions.


Cursed fool, life chucked away, give it up,
make a clean slate of it, suppose there'll be
enough left to buy bread and cheese ; I'll take
up a trade, by the Lord, and stick to it ; must
have the pull any way, you can't spend money
while you are trying to make it."

It has been before pointed out that Mr.
Herbert Morantt was somewhat eccentric, and
that, moreover, his slight eccentricities were not
only tolerated, but contributed no little to his
popularity. If there was one person with
whom Herbert Morantt was a special favourite,
it was Mrs. Marriott, the housekeeper of the
chambers in Morpeth Terrace, in a set of which
Morantt had resided ever since he left the
university some five or six years ago. She
regarded him as quite the pick of all her
gentlemen, chiefly perhaps because out of the

half-dozen or so tenants none ever bantered
her as Herbert Morantt did.

His toilet completed, he rang the bell for
breakfast, and told the servant who brought
it he wished to speak to Mrs. Marriott at her
earliest convenience, and that lady's advent
speedily followed.

'' Ah ! good morning, Mrs. Marriott," he
exclaimed, ^' I have sent for you to say that
we are once more on the verge of a crisis —
financial crisis, of course. I have experienced
more than one since I have enjoyed the comfort
of being under your charge."

Lor', sir, I'm sure I hope it isn't very
bad," rejoined the housekeeper, who had
rather vague notions of what Mr. Morantt
called his crises.

Mrs. Marriott, I must request no feminine
frivolity," said Herbert, impressively. " I
have instructed you in your duties during
crises ; I presume you haven't forgotten them
the strictest economy, mind. I can afford

nothing that costs ready money, except washing
and candles. It's a mercy I can do
without coals this warm weather. Your
book, mind, must be absolutely an affair to
be settled in Queen's heads "

And with regard to other things, sir, I
suppose they're to go on as usual ? "

*' Quite so, Mrs. Marriott. Anything that
goes down in a book you will obtain as usual.
We must not disturb the mysterious currents
of trade, nor derange any fellow-creature's
system of double entry. You understand,
Mrs. Marriott ? "

*' Yes," replied the housekeeper, laughing ;
but you know, sir, it makes no real difference.
You said yourself last time it all
came to the same thing at the end of the
quarter."

You don't understand these things, Marriott.
I am action on the soundest financial
principles. When there is a run upon bullion
the Bank of England always raises the rate

of discount, which is tantamount to declining
to part with ready money except under
severe pressure. That's the principle; we
must exist, like the snipes, this quarter
on lengthy bills. Also remember I am
never at home, or laid up with confluent
smallpox. Great men like editors, and
gentlemen in difficulties, are always hard to
interview. Were you ever in gaol, Mrs.
Marriott ? "

Lord, sir, what a question 1 " said the
housekeeper, rather indignantly.

Pooh ! I don't mean as a victim ; I
mean as a consoler."

Well, sir, I don't know whoever could
have told you, but when Marriott got into
difficulties and was ' took,' I used sometimes
to go and see him," whispered the widow.
I sometimes think that it was his anxieties
that killed him."

Perhaps they had, for the deceased Marriott's,
a retired butler who had gravitated

into the public line, chief anxiety latterly had
been the attainment of as much brandy and
water as possible.

*' Mrs. Marriott, when they have cast me
into a dungeon with gyves upon my wrists;
I shall expect you to visit me as somebody
in history, whose name I don't precisely
recollect, used to visit somebody else whose
patronymic at this minute I can't exactly
remember."

With which Christy Minstrel jest Mr.
Morantt dismissed his housekeeper, and lighting
a cigar, sat down to reflect upon his
position. He had had his joke with Mrs.
Marriott, but there was some method in his
madness. The housekeeper did not understand
a good deal of his chaff, but she
thoroughly comprehended the main drift of
it, to wit, that money was scarce, and that
lunches and dinners in chambers when
ordered were to be based on economical
principles. Still, this sort of saving is not

much use to a man in a big money scrape,
and as a rule men never live so well as just
before bankruptcy. I think it is in Disraeli's
Young Duke ' that the Marquis and his
wife, having tried economy for a year and
found it a failure, once more announce expense
as no object. The saving seemed so
utterly inadequate to the effacement of the
difficulties as not to be worth going on with.
Herbert Morantt was no fool, and was quite
as well aware of this as that continued reckless
living only increased them. What was
he to do ? — as for paying his debts there
would be little difficulty about that, but it
involved further sacrifice of capital, and this
would be to leave him with a very shrunken
income. A man who had failed to make
both ends meet on five hundred a year was
hardly likely to get along on little more than
half that sum.

There could be no doubt about it, he
must do something. If it had not been for

Nid it is odds lie would have decided on
emigration — realizing his capital, and trying
Lis luck in Australia or New Zealand ; but
he could not make up his mind to lose all
hope of winning Nid for his wife. His visits
had been frequent to the cottage by the
Eegent's Park of late ; and though he saw but
little of the master of the house, Mrs. Fox-borough
always received him quite graciously,
and Nid with the sunniest of smiles. She
tyrannized over him in the prettiest way,
was always giving him petty commissions,
such as procuring her a song, some flowers,
a new book, or else " the correct version of
a little bit of theatrical gossip," and Herbert
Morantt kissed his silken chain of servitude
metaphorically, and exulted that he was bound
to the wheels of the child enchantress's chariot.
He wished to marry this girl, and had fair
reason to suppose that neither she herself nor
her mother would be averse to such a proposal
on his part — true, she was very young.

only sweet seventeen, but girls have been
wooed and married and a " at that age
many times. Now, what was he to do ? If
he had embarked in any profession when he
first came to London, and stuck to it, he
would have now been probably making an
income that, joined to what he had of his
own, would have enabled him to offer any
girl a modest home. He had made a fool
of himself, but it was no use tearing his hair
over that ; the question was, what was he to
set his hand to ? At twenty eight a man
can hardly be said not to have a career still
before him.

He smoked on, and still the problem
seemed no nearer of solution.

^' Confound it," he exclaimed, " dear old
Phil Soames used to say at Cambridge — ' A
man with average ability and education, if
he has only energy, can always get his
living. Don't you believe he can't — it's only
want of determination that prevents him.

He goes about asking for something to do,
instead of telling people what be wants todo,
and asking them to give bim a start.'
Hang it — what is it I want to do ? and I
can only answer vaguely something to get
a living out of. Dear old Phil, I wonder
where he is now. He used to talk so plucky
about getting his living, but I fancy his
bread was pretty well buttered all the same,
and he has not had much occasion to trouble
himself on that score. Height, I don't get
on with this cursed conundrum — How I'm to
make a respectable living — it's the toughest
double acrostic ever was tackled. I think I'll
go up to the cottage and talk it over with Mrs.
Foxborough. She's a shrewd, practical woman."

Arrived at the cottage, he was shown into
the pretty drawing-room, which he found
tenanted by Nid only.

"Mamma's out," she said, as she greeted
him with a smile, " so you will have to put
up with me for the present."

That is a fate most men would resign
themselves to with much satisfaction ; but
I do want to see your mother all the
same."

Nothing easier ; you will only have to
wait a little. I don't suppose it will be
very long before she is in. It has one drawback,
for you will be expected to entertain
me."

'' I can't say I feel much like entertaining
anybody ; the fact is, I have got into a
scrape, Nid."

"I am awfully sorry ; but do — do you
think you ought to call me Nid ? " asked
the girl, with a demure hesitation irresistibly
coquettish.

Certainly ; doesn't everybody who knows
you really well call you Nid ? Didn't your
godfathers and godmothers on your baptism
give you this name ? " replied Morantt

"No, sir ; they did not. I was christened
Nydia Foxborough ; but what are these ? "

she continued, as Herbert extracted from his
pockets a small parcel and an envelope.

That is the broken fan you gave me, I
hope now duly repaired ; and that is the box
for Covent Garden next Friday. Your mother
promised to take you if I succeeded in getting
a box, and I triumphed."

Oh, how good of you ! Ah, yes, ]mr.
Morantt, I think I must be Nid to you."

'you mercenary little lady ! was there ever
such a case of bribery seen, I wonder ? "

Don't laugh at me — how dare you ! What,
girl in her teens wouldn't overlook being; called
by her Christian name in a man who brought
her an opera box ? But what is the scrape
you have got into ? — nothing very bad, is it ? "

No ; I have only been spending more
money than I ought."

Why get this opera box, then ? It is
very kind of you, but surely it is only spending
more money again."

If Nid had never known what it was to

want money, she was not nsecl to lavish
expenditure either. Her mother was an
excellent manager, and made their income go
a long way while living comfortably, but Nid
was not unaccustomed to hear the expression,
they couldn't afford it."

Oh, that makes no difference, and it will
give you a pleasure, and I should never count
loss much in that case. It isn't the money
part of the scrape. I can pay my way out of
that ; but the thing is I must really get to
work and do something for my living."

Surely, there's no great hardship iu that,"
rejoined the girl, who was wont to see most,
both of the women and men, with whom she
came in contact earn their bread, and who
looked forward to doing it herself in another
year or two.

"No, certainly not; but you will hardly
believe it, Nid, that, great hulking fellow as I
am, upon my word I don't know how to set
about it. There was a dear old friend of mine

who used always to say that any man with
tolerable brains, a fair education, and energy,
could earn a decent livins:/'

Would you think it very presumptuous in
me if I offered you advice ? " said Nid, timidly.

*^No. What is it?"

I think if I were you I would consult that
friend."

Eureka I You don't know what that is,
but it's equivalent to the very thing in this
case. What a clever little girl it is ! Look
here, Nid, Til follow your advice, and you
shall keep my secret. It would be very sweet
to think that I owed my start in life to you,
darling."

Mr. Morantt ! "

Well, I allow I hadn't the right to call
you that yet ; but I hope to have some of
these days. Ask your mother if I may come
to your box at Covent Garden on Friday. I
shall not wait to see her now — I found such a
shrewd adviser in her place."

'^ Come and dine with us, and escort us
properly. The brougham has a back seat, and
I'll see mamma sends you an invitation."

"Thanks; that will be delightful. Goodbye,
and God bless you, darling," added
Herbert as he shook hands, and this time Nid
only laughed as she held up a chiding forefinger.


If there was not an engagement between
these young people, they had, at all events,
arrived at a tacit understanding.

VOL,

CHAPTER VIII.

"disco ED AT DYKE."

It is all very well, John, but it is not fair
to keep your wife in total ignorance of everything,"
exclaimed Mrs. Fossdyke upon the
evening of her husband's return, as they satin
the drawing-room at Dyke, indulging in a
Ute-tete after Miss Hyde, pleading a bad
headache, had retired to bed. " You go away,
I don't know where, and refuse to tell me
anything about your proceedings when you
return."

You know very well, Mary, I never discuss
business subjects with you, nor very much
with any one else. I have played my hand
alone all my life."

But remember it was my money gave you
your first real start in life, and I do trust "

^' You're entitled to remind me of it for the
remainder of my existence. Listen to what I
say. I never did, and never mean to, talk
over my affairs with you. I got sou to understand
that once, and you were quite content,
and never troubled your head. We were
excellent friends in those days. Now that
meddling mischief-monger, old Totterdell, has
poisoned your understanding, and you're simply
an incarnation of suspicion. The doddering
old idiot has been to my office while I was
away, questioning my clerks about some of my
business. You don't suppose I mean to stand
that. Of course my people were much too
well trained to tell him anything; but the
next time he comes here I shall tell him to go,
and if he can't take that as a hint — and he is
not good at taking hints — I shall kick him
down the front door-steps and see if he
comprehends that."

N 2

Join, you couldn't ! My godfather ! How
dare yon talk so ? He is an old man, too,
recollect. All Baumborougli would cry shame
on you."

Don't you believe it ! Totterdell has
made himself so obnoxious of late from his
perpetual inquisitiveness and gossiping that I
think Marlborough is more likely to express
astonishment I hadn't done it long before ;
but he is, as you say, an old man, and therefore
safe from anything of that sort. Still,
mark me, I'll have him about Dyke no more,
and the sooner you make that clear to his
understanding the better. If you don't, I
shall, and it will be probably a little more
coarsely conveyed to him."

I'll not have my relatives debarred my
house," retorted Mrs. Fossdyke, with a stamp
of her foot, and an angry toss of her head ;
"more mine than yours, I've little doubt,
if we could only look into how it was paid
for."

I'm not going to argue with an angry
woman."

I never was calmer in my life," screamed
Mrs. Fossdyke. "If there is any loss of
temper it is on your side, I'm sorry to say,
John. Talk about kicking relatives down the
front door-steps, indeed ! "

He is not a relative, and I've told you I'm
not going to kick him."

I detest nagging, it's unmanly. Now
perhaps, Mr. Fossdyke, you will explain to me
all about Miss Hyde."

I've told you already that there is nothing
to explain further than has been explained.
Bessie can go whence she came if it is your
wish, in fact, no doubt will if, prompted by
your imbecile godfather, you make things
unpleasant to her."

I don't ; it is you who make things
unpleasant by half-confidences and abuse of
my relations." And Mrs. Fossdyke sniffed
defiantly.

*' As I told you before, he is not a relation."

'' Oh, no, perhaps not in the eye of the law ;
but I should hope there are moral principles
which guide us in reference to the ties of
kinship."

If you'd some moral principles that guided
you in the paths of common sense, Mary, it
would be a comfort," retorted John Fossdyke,
angrily.

I mays be a fool — quite as big a fool as my
unfortunate godfather ; but I'm not an idiot
either, John," retorted Mrs. Fossdyke, now
perfectly white with anger. " Again I ask
you, who is Miss Hyde ? "

And now it began to dawn upon John Foss-dyke
that he was likely to get the worst of
this quarrel, for he was very fond indeed of
Bessie, loving her as his own daughter, which
she was not, whatever suspicions might have
arisen in the brain of Town Councillor Totter-dell
or the wife of his bosom ; but he foresaw
that Mrs. Fossdyke's jealousy was aroused

concerning the girl, and that it wouki probably
overwhelm the regard in which she had held
her. The calling her ostentatiously Miss
Hyde, instead of the more endearing Bessie,
was significant of the brewing of the tempest,
and in his heart the Town Clerk muttered
maledictions against Totterdell the inquisitive,
heavy, if low.

'' Well, Mr. Fossdyke," resumed the lady,
lighting her bedroom candle, with no little
parade, " I ask you once more. Who is Miss
Hyde?"

You had better ask her, Mary ? "

*' Oh, you needn't think I haven't done that,
but she declines to tell me anything about
herself; says her father is dead, that her
mother is still alive, but she refused to say
anything further. You can tell me something
about her mother, I make very little
doubt."

Go to bed, woman," rejoined her husband,
sternly. " You little know what you are

talking about. If ever you gain the knowledge
you crave, it may be the worse for you.
Go to bed, I say, and check the scurrilous
tongue of you."

For a few moments Mrs. Fossdyke was
awed by her husband's manner, then recovering
herself, she exclaimed, "It is quite evident
you do know all about her. I have only
to say I must refuse to tolerate a young
person whose antecedents are involved in
such questionable mystery any longer under
my roof."

It isn't your roof," thundered John Foss-dyke,
now thoroughly aroused, " and it is forme
to say who shall shelter beneath it. I
begin to comprehend how men are incensed
to raise their hand against a woman, and
how a century ago a country squire might
have recourse to the stirrup-leather."

The lady became aware of a look in the
face of her lord she had never seen before,
and though a high-spirited woman, she shrank

before it, and retired without even hurling
that Parthian gibe so loved of her sex.

John Fossdyke knew that this was but a
barren victory. He might decree what he
pleased, yet if his wife chose she could easily
make Bessie's further residence at Dyke impossible.
Not only as mistress of the house
could she make Bessie's position intolerable,
but if she suddenly discountenanced her, and
said markedly that Miss Hyde was a protegee
of her husband's, and lived with them not
because she (Mrs. Fossdyke) wished it, but
because Mr. Fossdyke ordered it, there would
be a pretty wagging of tongues in Baum-borough,
and Bessie was like to have little
character left, poor girl, before many weeks
Were over. He could picture it all — Bessie's
astonishment at the first rebuff, her agony at
finding herself shunned by those who once
made so much of her, while Mrs. Fossdyke
posed as a cross between an outraged woman
and a Christian martyr, and finally the Town

Clerk cursed the wife of his bosom as he
thought of what she might be capable in
her wrath.

And yet she was by no means a bad-hearted
woman, nor yet a bad-tempered one ;
a little wearing it may be at times on the
subject of her family and the dower she had
brought her husband ; her present unhealthy
state of mind had been brought about slowly
but entirely by Mr. Totterdell. His inquisitiveness
and conjectures had first sown
suspicion in her mind. She had gradually
brooded over things, stimulated all the time
by her godfather's perpetual questions and
speculations, till she had constructed a very
pretty little romance for herself, to wit, that
Bessie Hyde was John Fossdyke's illegitimate
child, and that her mother was still living
somewhere under his protection. No wonder
the good lady's temper grew a little crisp
at her assumed discovery. That Miss Hyde
seemed dull and out of spirits John Fossdyke

thono;lit only natural. She had welcomed him
warmly, but somewhat sadly, on his arrival,
and had, as aforesaid, pleaded headache and
retired early. That Mrs. Fossdyke had commenced
making Dyke impossible to her was
evident to the Town Clerk, but in this he
did his wife injustice ; further than severe
cross-examination as to her birth and parents
Bessie had no cause to complain. The mistress
of Dyke kept all her wrath for her husband.

But Bessie had her troubles. She had
promised to give Philip Soames an answer
to that question he had asked in the cricket-field
in three days. The three days had
elapsed and the answer had been given, and
Bessie was sore at heart she had given it.
She had told him that she could not be his
wife without telling him her secret, and she
had told him she could not make up her
mind to do that. Philip had pleaded his
best, and the girl loved him very dearly.

'' Listen, my darling," he had said, '' I'll

not believe that you ever committed any ill ;
only tell me that yon come to me with no
stain upon your name, and that no one can
point the linger of scorn at you, and I'll ask
for no more. Keep this terrible bugbear to
yourself as long as you list, and one day we
shall lauo-h at it too-ether, believe me."

But Bessie had hung; her head and declined
to give the desired assurance, and Philip
Soames had taken her in his arms, pressed
his lips solemnly on her brow, and walked
sadly away into the night ; and Bessie had
gone up to her room, had a great cry, and
wondered if she could have felt more miserable
if she had confided that woeful secret to her
lover. He might have declined to take her,
as, indeed, she had compelled him to do now ;
but he would have pitied her, and Bessie
felt proudly that, think what he might, her
story would never have passed Philip Soames's
lips. Then she thought she would consult Mr.
Fossdyke when he came back. Why had he

not been at home, that she might have consulted
him during those three days ? It was
too Late now. Like the sped arrow, the word
spoken never comes back, and she had said
Philip Soames nay, and received his farewell
kiss. She must leave Duke, she thought.
She could not endure to meet her lover constantly,
and he knowing there was a story of
shame connected with her. She would feel
now as if all Baumboroudi knew it. While the
altercation was o:oino^ on in the drawing-room
between John Fossdyke and his wife, Bessie
had in the quiet of her chamber made up her
mind as to what she would do. She would
confide to Mr. Fossdyke all that had passed
between her and Philip Soames, and then she
would quit Dyke and look out for another
situation. That she should ever be as happy
as lie had been at Dyke was not likely, but
she would prefer anything to going back to
live with her aunt. Thanks to John Foss-dyke's
liberality, she had money in hand

to maintain Herself easily for the next few
months, and surely before that time expired
she would have found something to do.

Now the Town Clerk was just as desirous
of a private conference with Bessie as she
was with him, and after breakfast the next
morning he, perfectly regardless of his wife's
snort of indignation at the proposal, said
quietly,

Come into the garden for ten minutes,
Bessie ; I have something to say to you."

And I to you, Mr. Fossdyke," replied
the girl, as she stepped out of the window
on to the pleasaunce,

Which of us shall commence ? " asked
the Town Clerk, as, having gained the rosery,
they seated themselves on a bench.

'^ I think I had better listen to you first,"
replied Miss Hyde.

"Very good. What I have got to say is
soon said. You will believe me when I tell
you how sincerely sorry I am to have to say

it, but I see no alternative. I think, Bessie,
you must leave Dyke. Mrs. Fossdyke lias
been so worked upon by that miserable old
fool Totterdell, that she has constructed
a mystery in her mind about you which
makes your further stay here impossible forme.
What the exact mao^s^ot she has in her

Do

brain may be I don't really know, but from
her 'present temper I fancy you also would
find remaining with her equally impracticable.
Has she been making things unpleasant to
you as yet V

No, indeed ; further than that she has
manifested great curiosity about my antecedents,"
replied Bessie, hanging her head,
she has been kind as ever."

And now what is it that you have got
to say to me ? " asked John Fossdyke.

That for a reason of my own I also
think it is best I should leave Dyke. Mr.
Fossdyke," continued the girl earnestly, while
the blood surged to her temples, "you know

all about me, and I only know how good
you have been to me. Since you have been
away Mr. Soames has asked me to marry
him."

My dear child, I am delighted to hear
it. He's not only a good match from a
worldly point of view, but there's not a finer,
more straightforward young fellow anywhere
within hail of Marlborough ; any girl might
be proud to have won his love."

But — but," replied Bessie, as the tears
gathered in her eyes, "you know I could
not say yes."

"Good heaven! girl, you don't mean to
say you have said no to the best parti in
the neighbourhood ? "

How could I do otherwise, unless I had
the courage to tell him my luckless history ?
You know, Mr. Fossdyke, I could not do that."

"I am not at all clear about that. You
have been twitted with your birth by an
acidulated puritanical aunt, from the moment

you grew old enough to understand it. I
also have recommended you to keep silence
on the subject, and pointed out that it would
be always against your getting any such
situation ; not, I trust, as you hold here,
but as you meant seeking when I suggested
your coming to us, and then your sweet
cousins, no doubt, were always casting it in
your teeth. Now, answer me these two
questions. How much did you tell Philip
Soames ? — for of course you told him something
— and do you think he loves you in
genuine earnest ? "

I told him," replied Bessie, '' my real
position here ; that I was neither relation
nor adopted daughter of yours, whatever
Marlborough might think, but simply ]airs.
Fossdyke's paid companion."

Ha ! and what did he say to that ? "
That it made no difference ; that he was
ready to take me for myself; but I told him
that it could never be."

VOL. I. o

"There, Bessie, my dear, I don't quite
agree with you. If you like Philip Soames
well enough, I think it will be. I dont
imagine your antecedents will, from my
knowledge of his character, have much weight
with him. You are quite right, he must
know your whole story first ; and if — as I
believe he will — he again asks you to marry
him, your fate will be in your own hands.
It will be my business to let Soames know
your secret."

I really am tired of all this mystery,"
exclaimed the voice of Mrs. Fossdyke, who,
attended by Mr. Totterdell, had advanced
noiselessly over the soft turf, and caught
her husband's concluding words. '^ If there
is a secret connected with Miss Hyde, then
I claim to be informed of it at once. I
should fancy I am a much more proper
person to be entrusted with it than Mr.
Soames."

As for Mr. Totterdell, his face depicted

the most lively curiosity, while his ears were
evidently literally agape for intelligence.

Who did he say she was, Mary ? " he
asked breathlessly, glancing at Bessie.

But John Fossdyke rose in his wrath, with
that look on his face that his wife had never
witnessed till the previous night.

Who Miss Hyde is matters little to
you, as from this time I trust you will
abstain from ever darkening my door-step
again ; your mischievous tongue and insatiable
curiosity have already caused plenty of
unpleasantness in Marlborough. You occupy
yourself prying into my private affairs, and
I tolerate that from no man. Go, and let
me see no more of you at Dyke."

"Yes, sir, I shall go," retorted Mr. Totter-dell,
" and I shall not return ; but if you
think, John Fossdyke, your losing your
temper is going to stop people talking, you
are very much mistaken. I assure you all
Marlborough are wanting to know who

O 2

Miss Hyde is," and with this parting salvo
the old gentleman took his departure.

As for you, Mary," continued John Foss-dyke,
sternly, '' you need trouble yourself
no more about secrets or mysteries. Bessie
will leave us in about a week. I have just
arranged it with her," and so saying, he
turned abruptly and walked back to the
house.

As for Mrs. Fossdyke, instead of, as might
have been expected, pouring forth the vials
of her wrath upon Miss Hyde's head, she sat
down upon the bench and indulged in a good
cry at the idea of her departure ; even going
so far in her penitence, as to admit that
had it not been for her godfather, she would
never even have dreamt of there being any
mystery about Bessie.

CHAPTER IX.

WHAT A TEASE YOU ARE, HERBERT."

When Mrs. FoxborouG^li heard her daughter's
account of Herbert Morantt's visit, she looked
somewhat serious. Nid had not toil all the
particulars of that visit, and her mother knew
very well that she had not. Mrs. Foxborough
quite understood, from the way the girl told
her story, that there had been definite love-passages
between her and Herbert Morantt,
and Mrs. Foxborough now asked herself
whether it had been wise on her part, not
merely to allow, but to encourage the intimacy
between them. She in her own heart
was decidedly averse to Nid's appearing on
the store. What she desired for her daughter

was that she shoukl marry a gentleman in
easy circumstances, and never have anything
to do with the profession. She would have
scorned the idea of endeavouring to entrap
Herbert Morantt ; in her eyes Nid was good
enough for any scion of the peerage, but she
liked the vous: fellow, she thought Nid also
had a penchant that way. And, well, if they
should happen to fancy one another, Morantt
was just the son-in-law she should welcome
with much satisfaction. But this account
of his impecuniosity was a startling surprise
for Mrs. Foxborouorh. She had no idea but
what ]\Iorant was a man in easy circumstances.
A rich man, no ; but a man who
could take very o-ood care of her child if she
gave her into his hands. Mrs. Foxborough
thought now, if Nid married him, the girl
would have to begin at once to take her
share of bringing; arise to the mill; and then
Mrs. Foxborouorh had mim reminiscences of

o O

many a case in her own experience in which

the wife had made the income, while the
husband contented himself with spending
three-fourths of it. She was much too clever
a woman to say anything to Nid, but she
bitterly regretted that she had allowed Morantt
to attain so intimate a footing in the house.
As for her erratic lord and master, he was
once more off on one of his country tours ;
but even had he not been, it is doubtful
whether Mrs. FoxborouQ-h would have

o

deemed this quite a case for consulting him
about.

She yielded, of course, to Nid's petition,
and allowed that young lady to send off a
note of invitation to dinner for Friday night,
but she puzzled her brain meanwhile no little
as to how she should manage to place Herbert
Morantt on that distant footing that she was
now extremely desirous to see hint upon.
She was worldly and vigilant, as keenly alive to
a detrimental match as any Belgravian mother,
when it came to the disposal of her treasure.

Of no gentle birth herself, she had mixed
enough in fair society to attain refined manners
and to appreciate them. That Nid
should marry a bond fide gentleman was an
article of faith with her ; but then he must
undoubtedly have enough money to support
a wife. Arrant had answered all these qualifications,
she thought, and now he had unexpectedly
broken down in a very essential
one. And while wee scheme and plot in our
little way, the gods give another shake to the
kaleidoscope we call life, which produces quite
a fresh arrangement of the pieces, and produces
corresponding perplexity in our minds
as to what is the goal wee are desirous of
arriving at.

Herbert Morantt, meanwhile, was simply
delighted with the so far success of Nid's
idea, and sanguine after his manner as to
the result. Philip Soames had not only
answered his letter, but answered it ti the
most satisfactory way.

Not only," he said, "do I still stick to my
old theory that there's work to be had by any
man with average brains and energy, but I
can find it for you. Come down and stay
with me for a fortnight, and talk it over. I
shall be delighted to see you, old man, if
nothing else comes of it ; but if you are really
in earnest something else will. Given you're
good to put your neck into the collar, I'll
guarantee you're earning your corn. Anyway,
come and hear what I have to say. It's a
dullish place, no doubt, but it's all new to you.
I'll do you decently, and, bar finding fault
with the malt, you can please yourself on all
points. Sneering at our rose is insulting the
family scutcheon, and you'll run the risk of
being mashed in one of our own tubs. We
bear with no deriding of beer in our strong
hold. Once more, my dear Herbert, I say
come ; if you're half the man you were at Cambridge,
I'll show you an opening which maybe
a good deal what you choose to make it.

'* Ever yours,

Phil Soames.

Mailing ton House, Baumhoroutjli.^^

Mr. Morality was jubilant over tins letter.
He was not only bored with the tread mill of
fashion up which his feet incessantly trod, butin
his love for Nid he had an incentive for
work such as he had long required. He felt
too that he had it in him. He had worked
hard enough at times in the getting up of all
sorts of amusements, such as balls, private
theatricals, cricket-matches, picnics, &c. — why
should he not expend all this energy in something
remunerative ? Ye?5, office hours would,
of course, at first come irksome. It would bea
deuce of a bore getting up at half-past eight,
or thereabouts, and going to bed at midnight
would no doubt have a humdrum flavour about
it to start with. But there were some of his
acquaintances in the Guards who he knew
had often to meet terribly early engagements,
and yet these things never seemed to disturb
the equanimity of those light-hearted warriors
amid the small hours. He supposed it was
easy to educate yourself, and to get along upon

about four hours' sleep. We are all creatures
of habit, and lying in bed till twelve is simply
chronic indolence. No, in the future, like
*' Young Phillip, the falconer," of the old
ballad, he meant to be " up with the dawn,"
and then he burst out laughing as he thought
of young; Dimsdale's rendering; of the old saw
the night before last at a late supper party —

Early to bed and early to rise
Shows a man can be a fool if he tries."

Mr. Morantt arrived in excellent time at
Tapton Cottage ; but if he had counted upon
the chance of a tete-d-iete with Nid he was
mistaken, for he found Mrs. Foxborough alone
in the drawing-room when he entered. That
lady welcomed him warmly, thanked him for
sending' the box, and murmuring something
dinner being ready directly, motioned
him to a seat.

I am going to bid you good-bye for a bit
after to-night, Mrs. Foxborough," said Herbert.
*' I am going into the country."

All, for some shooting," rejoined his
hostess. " I don't know much about such
things, but is not this the month you commence
to kill partridges ? "

No, I am going away with far higher
views than mere amusement," rejoined Morantt,
in somewhat grandiloquent fashion. He had
a misty idea that there was something heroic
in earning his own living. "I am going into
the country to discuss my future career with
an old friend."

I am sure I wish you every success
most heartily, Mr. ]\[orant. I fancy you
will do well in whatever you set your
hand to. I was sorry to hear from Nid
that it had become necessary, not but that
I think it all for your good. Still, I am
afraid it means that you have lost money
in some way, which is always rather disheartening."


*' No, Mrs. Foxborough ; I have lost no
money, but I have sent it. You see before

you a reformed character, bubbling over with
virtuous resolutions."

Let me see him quick," cried Nid, as
she advanced into the room, " before he has
bubbled over and there is no virtuous resolution
left."

Nid, mv darling ! " said her mother, reprovingly.


"• You are right, Miss Foxborough ; ' methinks
he doth protest too much.' Nevertheless,
my fair confederate, your advice has been
taken, the oracle has spoken. I am going to
rise in future at half-past eight, to retire to
bed early ; in fact, to become a regular business
man and leading citizen."

'' And what is to be the business, and
where ? " asked Nid, as they walked in to
dinner.

Upon my honour, I don't know, but it
must be immensely facilitated by early rising ;
don't you think so, Mrs. Foxborough ? Let
me manage that chicken for you. I assure

you I spent this morning in the study of alarum
clocks. I never yet slept with one of those
fiendish instruments of torture in the room.
It must be a perfect acoustic shower-bath when
it goes off."

But mind, you will have to get up when
it calls you, and not behave like that bad-tempered
man at Cambridge you told me about
who only threw his boots at them, and broke
twenty-seven one term," laughed Nid.

Ah ! poor Tom Rawlinson. I am afraid I
am a little like him. He was always going to
begin reading, but he got plucked for his
small,' and faded away from academic
groves in spite of all his resolutions and
mechanical contrivances."

Ah, Mr. Morantt, but you are not going to
share the flite of Mr. Rawlinson, and be what
do you call it ? I don't know what it means
in the least, but presume it means failure in
some shape," exclaimed Mrs. Foxborough.
'' Here's success to the new undertaking,

whatever it be, and best wishes." And so
saying, the hostess raised her gkss to her lips
with a cheery smile. "And now, Nid, run
and get your cloak, and tell Ellen to bring me
mine ; the brougham will be round directly."

No sooner had her daughter left the room
than Mrs. Foxborough, with her accustomed
frankness, came to the point.

You are going away, Mr. Morantt," she
said, "and have no sincerer well-wisher than I
am. When you come back I must ask you to
visit us rather more sparingly. You doubtless
mean nothing, but you pay my little girl a good
deal of attention. She has seen nothing of the
world as yet, and I don't want the child made
a fool of. Girls of her age, especially with her
somewhat romantic temperament, are quite apt
to mistake good-natured courtesy for something
more, and I do you the justice to think you
would wish that no more than I should."

"If I pay your daughter attention, Mrs.
Foxborough, it is with the deliberate intent of

winning her for my wife if I can ; so pray don't
think of my visiting here in any other sense.
If I have said nothing to you as yet, well, I
am not quite sure that I have made progress
enough with Nid to justify my doing so."

These lovers, these lovers — can they ever be
relied on to tell the exact truth ? To each
other, of course not, for the glamour of their
passion colours all their speech ; they mean it
at the time, but it rarely lasts for all time.
Herbert Morantt was hardly speaking to the
best of his belief when he professed to doubt
his progress with Nid.

We won't discuss that for the present, Mr.
Morantt. By your own confession you cannot
afford to marry as yet, and therefore it would
be hardly fair on so young a girl as Nid to
hamper her with an engagement. Don't get
angry at the word hamper — I use it advisedly.
You can both well afford to wait ; and though
I don't want you to come too often, pray don't
think you are 'boycotted.' Succeed in your

new career, and show me you can maintain a
wife, and if Kid. can make up her mind you
will have no enemy in me. Now, Mr. Morantt,
we understand each other, and there's my
hand."

Herbert pressed, his hostess's hand. and.
uttered some incoherent words of gratitude,
in the midst of which the door opened,
and in walked, the subject of their conversation.


Really, Mr. Morantt, if it wasn't with
mamma, who can do no wrong, I should say
I had. interrupted, a love scene," exclaimed
Nid.

I am not at all sure you haven't," rejoined
her mother, laughing ; " but quick, Ellen,
giYc me my cloak ; it is high time we were
off."

What were you and mamma having such
a confabulation about?" asked Nid, between
the acts of the TroYatore.

Shall I tell you ? She was giving her

VOL. I. p

consent to my marriage whenever I had acquired
sufficient means to maintain a wife."

Nid coloured, and became absorbed in contemplation
of the house, sweeping it with
her glasses as if in anxious search of some
much-valued acquaintance.

"The trouble will be getting some one
else's consent afterwards," continued Herbert.
Do you think I have any chance, Nid ? "

How should I know ? " rejoined the girl
pettishly over her shoulder. She knew very
well what he meant. She regarded herself as
tacitly engaged to him, but yet she was a
little flustered at the idea of being asked to
maiTV him in downright plain English. She
was very young, bear in mind.

"Who should know better, darling? I
don't want to ask your mother this, Nid.
Have I a chance ? "

Still no answer, and Miss Foxborough
apparently more intent upon seeking that
valued acquaintance than ever.

You won't see me again for some time,
dearest. Say, at least, you shall be glad to
see me back."

Suddenly Nid dropped her opera glasses,
a little hand stole into Morantt's, and a murmured
" What a tease you are, Herbert," fell
upon his ear.

It was not a very direct answer to his
Question, but he seemed quite content, and
till the fall of the curtain Mrs. Foxborough
was, sad to say, left entirely to her own
meditations.

P 2

CHAPTER X.

THE OPENING OF THE Marlborough THEATRE.

Mr. Fossdyke speedily found that his
prognostications were fulfilled. Mr. Totterdell,
formerly exasperating merely from fatuous
curiosity, had now become actively malignant.
He trotted about giving a somewhat garbled
account of the way he had been turned out
of Dyke, " merely because I expressed, what
all Marlborough expresses, some wish to
know who Miss Hyde really is : " and then
Mr. Totterdell went on to insinuate that if
there was not something: wrong there would
surely be no reason to make a mystery about
her. He hoped his poor god-daughter, when
she did discover the truth, mis^ht find it

still possible to get on with her husband. He
wished to insinuate nothing, but the skeleton
in the cupboard was almost certain to be
discovered sooner or later, and want of perfect
confidence between man and wife had been
productive of domestic unhappiness from
time out of mind.

Only din things sufficiently into people's
heads, and they will end by believing anything.
They always argue that there mast
be some truth in it ; it may not be all true,
but there is foundation of some sort for the
story, and before a week was passed there
were not wanting; those in Baumborouo-h who
looked askew at Miss Hyde. Moreover,
Totterdell's pertinacious inquiries into the
financial affairs of the Council, attributable
chiefly to his irritation at having been sharply
snubbed in Fossdyke's office, began to beget
a slight distrust of the Town Clerk. Once
more it was buzzed about that the tradespeople
had always trouble in getting their

money from John Fossdyke, and a vague
suspicion was abroad that he was in monetary
difficulties. True, his friends argued that it
was impossible ; look at the emoluments he
held, his business was pretty good, he had
got money with his wife, and some of the
farmers around Marlborough quite guffawed
at the idea when it reached their ears.
Lawyer Fossdyke want money ! Why, that
bangs all, he's always some to lend, man, to
any one with decent security." Still, spite of
all this, there were some members of the
Municipal Council who held it would not bean
injudicious thing to take strict stock of
their affairs, to look into their investments as
well as their books.

John Fossdyke met all this not altogether
without annoyance, but certainly with un-bleaching
front. His accounts, he said, were
ready for the Town Council whenever they
chose to demand them, and he should be
happy to tender ample explanation on any

point that might not seem perfectly clear
to them , but he was not going to submit
to cross-examination by a fussy busybody
simply because he happened to be elected
to the Corporation — an individual, moreover,
whose scandalous tongue had compelled him
to close his doors against him. If John
Fossdyke was not having altogether a rosy
time, neither was Mr. Totterdell. Both the
Town Clerk and Miss Hyde were popular in
Marlborough, and a very large portion of
the community took their parts with considerable
vehemence. Mr. Totterdell, on the
contrary, was very much the reverse ; and
even those who for one motive or au other
ranged themselves on his side, manifested
no little contempt for their mischief-making
leader. Another thing, too, that had been
a veritable stao-aerer for Mr. Totterdell, was
the sudden defection of his god-daughter.
That gentleman, the afternoon he left Dyke,
white with indignation at being morally

kicked out of the house, flattered himself
that Mrs. Fossdyke would take up the
cudgels in his behalf, and deafen all Baum-borough
with the story of her wrongs.
Mary Fossdyke did nothing of the kind ;
she might abuse or find fault with her
husband herself, but, like many another
woman, she had no idea of allowing an'
one else that privilege in her presence.
Then again, she was honestly a little penitent
about Bessie, and the idea of her going
made the good lady very unhappy. She
took the girl about with her everywhere,
and made more of Miss Hyde publicly than
ever. Some few might look askance, but
Mrs. Fossdyke carried too many guns for
this outside circle. She was of the very
cream of Marlborough society, and not to
be cowed by Mr. Totterdell's adherents.
Indeed, that gentleman would very willingly
have dropped the whole business of inquiry
into the books of the Town Clerk if he

could, but lie had associates who insisted
upon his seeing the thing out. Men who
start agitations or popular cries can never
estimate where the craze may carry them,
and when Mr. Totterdell in his petulance
allowed himself to indulge in inuendo against
John Fossdyke he little dreamt what would
come of it.

Very angry and very sad was Philip Soames
when these rumours first reached his ears.
They came to him, as might be expected,
in exaggerated shape. He heard that Miss
Hyde had turned out to be John Fossdyke's
illegitimate daughter, that there had been a
tremendous scene at Dyke upon Mrs. Foss-dyke's
making the discovery, she having
been all along under the delusion that the
young lady was her husband's niece, that
there had been a terrible quarrel, which had
been temporarily patched up, the Town Clerk
and his wife having agreed to keep their
differences at all events to themselves, that

Mrs. Fossdyke was going about everywhere
with Miss Hyde just to throw dust in
people's eyes, but she had stipulated Miss
Hyde should be sent away at the end of the
month. Further, that the Town Clerk was
said to be in money difficulties, and the
Municipal Council would probably deprive
him of his appointment.

Phil Soames was a sensible young man, and
did not take all he heard for gospel, but he
could not but recall his last interview with
Bessie, and wonder to himself was this her
secret. It was quite possible she might view
the stain upon her birth in such exaggerated
fashion as to deem it a bar to entering a
respectable family as a daughter. It was hard
to believe that a bright, handsome, straightforward
girl such as Bessie Hyde could have
any shameful story of her own to tell ; but
that she might have been brought up to consider
her illegitimacy placed her under a ban
was easy of understanding. Phil Soames went

grimly about his work in a mariner very
different from his wont ; he stuck to it, if
anything, more pertinaciously than ever, but the
spring seemed out of him. He laboured more
like a machine, very different from the gay,
light-hearted manner that was habitual to him.
His love for Bessie Hyde was no passing fancy,
and Mr. Philip Soames was very tenacious
about what he took in hand, 'be it what it
might. But he felt powerless in this instance.
He could not discover what he had to combat ;
unless he could prevail upon Miss Hyde to tell
him her story, he was helpless.

Mr. Fossdyke, too, after his absence from
home, found so many things that required his
attention that he was deeply immersed in
business, and so never found time somehow to
see Phil Soames and confide to him Bessie's
history. The girl constantly wondered whether
he had done so, but, as may be easily understood,
was shy of reminding him of their
conversation. As for Mrs. Fossdyke, she had

studiously avoided all reference to delicate
subjects since the scene in the rosary, and
though her husband not only recognized, but
had told her so, how well she had done her
wifely duty in confronting all the scandal
Mr. Totterdell had set rolling, yet he had been
no more communicative to her than to Phil
Some ; so that relations in the Dyke family
still lacked confidence and cordiality all round
in great measure. One thing specially noticeable,
as many remembered afterwards, was,
that John Fossdyke seemed out of spirits, and
somewhat irritable, all the time. And yet
one of the schemes he had set his heart on had
arrived at maturity, for the Marlborough
Theatre was a thing accomplished, and the
opening night, under the patronage of the
Mayor and Municipal Council, announced in
gigantic posters all through the length and
breadth of the town. If Marlborough had
doubted whether it wanted a theatre at one
time, it had no sort of uncertainty but that

was one of its requirements now — in fact,
Marlborough was all agog for the eventful
evening, and quite marvelled how it had
managed to endure life so long without a
dramatic temple. Everybody was going, not
only the upper social stratum, but all the
tradespeople and the shorten had announced
their intention of being present. A lessee of
substance had been procured, and he had
made satisfactory arrangements with an excellent
provincial company to take Marlborough
in their tour, and the theatre was accordingly
announced to open with a Robertson ian
comedy.

It was curiously illustrative of the old axiom,
that he who bears the brunt of the battle does
not always get the credit of winning the fight,
for the bigger half of Marlborough were under
a hazy impression that the erection of the
theatre was due chiefly to the unflagging exertions
of Mr. Totterdell. It was true he told
every one so, and there is no doubt if you

persistently tell people a consistent story of
yourself, the majority will in the end believe
you. He had been the bane of the contractor's
life, with his endless questions and impossible
suggestions, for he had been perpetually in
and out all the time the buildings was in hand,
while John Fossdyke, without whom the thing
never would have come to pass, had seldom
gone near it. Mr. Totterdell was now buzzing
about like a hilarious bluebottle, rubbing his
hands and saying he had devoted a good deal
of time to it, to say nothing of taking a good
deal of trouble ; but he did think — yes, he
might venture to say — Marlborough would
pronounce it a very bright, pretty little house
when they saw it. And people believed this
old impostor, who in reality had vexed the
souls of those entrusted with the work, and
even in some cases slightly hindered it.

But the evening came, and the ]market-Place
of Marlborough resounded with the rattle of
wheels ; vehicles of all descriptions rolled over

its stones, private carriages from round about
and the suburbs of the town, hack flies hired
from the principal inns, even the hotel omnibuses
were in requisition, and the ladies of
Marlborough, in silk and satin, flounce and
furbelow, thronged into the stalls and boxes.
It was a full house — stalls, pit, dress circle,
upper boxes, and gallery were crowded, and
during the overture Marlborough had plenty
to do in admiring the really pretty little
theatre it had acquired, and in exchanging
salutes. The Major was there with all his
family, beaming in all the glory of a stage box.
The Town Council generally were scattered
about, including not only Mr. Totterdell, more
than ever convinced that this gaily-lighted
festive amphitheatre was all his creation, but
even Stanger, its whilom fierce opponent ;
but Stanger, the representative of Pickleton
Award, was a sound, practical man, who said
he combated theories, but always accepted
accomplished facts.

John Fossdyke, with his wife and Miss
Hyde, were there in the stage box opposite
the Mayor's. Mr. Philip Soames was there,
moodily meditating whether it would be out of
place to go round between the acts and say
'' how do you do " to Mrs. Fossdyke. Several
of the clergy were there, who, without being
engaged in that incongruous absurdity, " the
Stage and Church Guild," could see no harm
in the innocent amusement the English stao^e
as a rule affords. There are plenty of extremists
of all creeds in these days, alas I who, by
their puritanical dogmas, are teaching men
rapidly to profess no creed at all, and cannot
be made to see the harm done to all religion
by their rabid intolerance.

The curtain rises on that old favourite play,
*' Ours," and the audience greet the garden
scene at once with a good-humoured burst of
applause. A play that always goes, if played,
and yet makes us sometimes wonder why it
should, the grand effect of the second act

culminating in a lady making a pudding in
the third. It certainly was Mrs. Bancroft who
was the original compounder of that pudding
and that goes for a good deal. Her business
has become, of course, traditional. The piece
went as well as ever, the company were capable,
and the audience were delighted. Seated
next to Mr. Totterdell was a dark-complexioned
gentleman, attired in the orthodox sables,
who exercised that gentleman immensely. He
was apparently a stranger, at all events Mr.
Totterdell had never seen him before, and
any enigma of this kind had the mysterious
fascination that double acrostics have upon
some people.

Monstrous pretty little theatre," remarked
the strand-er at the end of the first act. "I

o

suppose all your leading notables are here tonight
— the Mayor that, I presume, judging by
his chain of office, and, God bless me" — and
here the stranger suddenly paused, and looking
rapidly round in another direction than the

VOL. 1. Q

stage, inquired who that gentleman was in an
upper box.

That, sir, is a brother member of mine on
the Municipal Council, Mr. Brocklebank, perhaps,
next to myself, the chief promoter of the
theatre you have done me the honour to
admire. It cost me a brood deal of time and
trouble ; there were prejudices to be overcome,
but to-night's triumph repays me for all. My
name, sir, is Totterdell — a name you will find
tolerably well known in Marlborough. May I
ask to whom I have the pleasure of speaking ? "

My name I Ah, yes ! my name ! My
name is Viator, and I am staying in the
neighbourhood."

Vater — a very singular name ; sounds
as if you were of foreign extraction."

Yes, of what is designated nomad Italian
origin, I fancy. But who is that gentleman
in the 0. P. stage box 1 "

Might I ask what you mean by that ? "
inquired TotterilelL

Why, you told me you mainly got up
the theatre, so I naturally supposed you
understood theatrical slangy. The 0. P. side
means opposite the prompt side, and the
prompter is always on the stage left."

Ah, you mean in the box opposite the
Mayor, — that is John Fossdyke, our Town
Clerk. A bumptious, bad-tempered man, that
I intend to have turned out of the place
before long. He don't know his place," continued
Totterdell, with increasing acerbity.
'' He does not seem to understand, sir, that
he is the servant of the Council, and when
servants don't comprehend their situations
WT discharge them ; " and when Mr. Totterdell
got so earnest in his language, a reproving
hush ran round the adjacent pit and stalls,
for the curtain had just risen on the second
act.

John Fossdyke," said the stranger, in a
low tone ; " would you mind spelling it forme
i

Q 2

Mr. Totterclell, in a much subdued voice,
at once complied with the request.

Grand dramatic effect that' observed the
stranger, as the curtain fell on the measured
tramp of the soldiery on their way to the East,
at the conclusion of the second act. "Mr.
Fossdyke been settled long in Marlborough ? "

Gracious, yes, many years ; but what
makes you interested about that ? "

*can hardly say that," replied the stranger,
with much nonchalance. " I have some idea
I knew a Fossdyke somewhat early in life.
Bless you, I can't even recollect where.
School with him, perhaps. Can't say where
I met him, exactly ; not that I mean to say
that your Marlborough Fossdyke is my
Fossdyke. Not even sure whether mine was
a Fossdyke or a Mossdyke. Met him on
business, perhaps."

Just so ; quite likely. AVhat did you say
your business was, Mr. Yyater ? " inquired
Mr. Totterdell, eagerly.

I don't know that I said anything about
my business," answered the other, with an
amused smile.

'' You seem to know a good deal about
theatricals. Are you connected with the
profession in any way ? "

'' Well, I might be, and then again I might
be connected with coals," rejoined the stranger,
laughing. " Yes, I do know a little about
theatricals ; considering I dabble in them a
good deal, I ought to. You've gratified
my curiosity, so I'll gratify yours. My business
here was to see your new theatre and
calculate whether I could get anything out
of it on some future occasion."

And you're much gratified, of course ? "
remarked Totterdell, pompously.

Hum ! If I've seen ' Ours ' once I should
think I've seen it thirty times. It's done
well here, but I've seen it done better. You've
a big house to-night ; but if you're a fisherman
you'll understand what I mean when I

say this is the first cast of the net in a
new swim. It's a chance whether you will
catch as many fish again. No, I've reckoned
you up ; you're worth a fifty-pound note, fora
two days' spec, might run to a little more."

"Nonsense, sir; why I look forward to a
regular theatre, open nearly all the year
round."

Bosh," responded the stranger, blandly,
if not politely. " Your lessee's no such fool
as that ; he knows if he tried that game
the shutters would be up for good after the
first year. Stock companies, as a rule, my
good sir, are amongst the institutions of the
past."

Bosh ! to a Town Councillor ! Mr.
Totterdell felt this was revolutionary, an
upheaval of things, prophetic of woe to the
nation. The word bosh might possibly be
used by one Town Councillor to another.
The great Stanger, indeed, upon one memorable
occasion, had recourse to the somewhat

offensive word, but it was not to be permitted
of the outside public. However, before he
could clothe the rebuke that rose to his lips
in words of sufficient severity, the curtain
rose upon the third act.

Now, my friend," said the unabashed
stranger, " you'll understand there's a good
deal in the making of a pudding. If it
wasn't cleverly compounded this act wouldn't
pull through."

Philip Soames, after a stern argument with
himself, had at last determined that common
politeness required he should go round and
pay his respects to Mrs. Fossdyke. After
chatting a bit with that lady and her husband,
he lingered a little at the back of the box
with Miss Hyde.

Am I to take your answer of the other
day as final, Bessie ? " he whispered.

I am afraid so, Philip," she replied, softly.
Unless, indeed, — but that, I fancy, is unlikely."


Unless what ? " he asked, brusquely.

Unless Mr. Fossdyke speaks to you about
me. If he should you will at all events
know why I feel I am bound, in justice to
yourself, Philip, to say no when I would
gladly say yes. I make no secret that I
love you, but I cannot marry you."

Mr. Fossdyke speak to me ! " he replied.
"What about? Is it likely r'

*' No ; I don't know ; I should think not.
Please don't ask me anything more, Philip."

I won't now, nor will I till I have had a
talk with Mr. Fossdyke ; if he does not speak
to me I mean to speak to him, Bessie. Goodnight,"
and, having pressed her hand warmly,
Philip Soames withdrew to witness the third
act of " Ours."

John Fossdyke looked gloomily on at this,
as indeed he had at the whole representation.
Considering how energetic he had been about
promoting the erection of the building, it
was singular how little interest he took in

the play. He never left his box, and said
but little to either his wife or Bessie ; but
gazed at the stage in a moody, pre-occupied
fashion, as a man mio'ht who was there from
a sense of duty, but who, far from being either
interested or amused, was scarce conscious of
the pageant passing before his eyes. More
than once the stranger eyed him keenly, and
at last said in a low voice —

'' I suppose Mr. Foss — Fossdyke thinks from
his official position that he's bound to attend
when the Mayor and Council patronize the
show, or else he gives me the idea of rather
disapproving of theatricals, or at all events
being; somewhat bored with them."

^' There you make a mistake," returned
Totterdell. '' He was one of the advocates
of the scheme, but he turned out a bit of a
humbug."

How so ? "

'why, he said he understood a good deal
about theatricals, but the minute the thine

was ill hand and fairly began, be never came
near the place. No, sir, the whole superintending
of the building was left to me, and
a pretty life I led the contractors I can tell
you."

In justice to Mr. Totterdell, it must be
admitted that the contractors would bave
subscribed to this opinion.

Ob, they want looking after, those fellows,"
rejoined the stranger, carelessly. " Fossdyke
any family ? Is that bis daughter, for instance,
in the box with bim ? "

No, that's Miss Hyde ; a mystery, no one
in Marlborough knows who she is, and when
I say she isn't bis daughter she may be for
all I know. I don't say she is, but she maybe.
She may be anybody, indeed."

Quite so. Nice-looking girl, anyhow,"
replied the stranger.

*' She's a very flippant young woman,"
retorted Totterdell, quickly, who bad his suspicions
that Bessie sometimes rather laughed

at hin. "Lor!" he continued, "it quite
makes one shiver," as the simuLated whistle
of the will Crimean snowstorm from the stage
smote upon their ear, and Sergeant Brown
enters the hut accompanied by a rush of
snowflakes.

Great effect from a well-toned whistle and
a winnowing machine at the wins, isn't
it ? So they don't know who Miss Hyde
is, eh ? "

*' No. You seem to take rather an interest
in Fossdyke's family, Mr. Vater. By-the-bye,
how do you spell your name ? "

"Depends upon what branch of the family
you belong to," rejoined the stranger. "As a
speller I'm always variable ; it isn't my strong
point."

And you are stopping ? " asked Mr.
Totterdell.

"Bless you, I hope not. I'm like an eight
days' clock, I never stop unless I'm run down.
I'm always on the move, here, there, and

everywhere. ' I'm always on the move, sir
as the old song says."

Mr. Totterdell said no more ; it had suddenly
occurred to him that this stranger was
as flippant as Miss Hyde, and no more disposed
to give an account of himself. Mr.
Totterdell distrusted people who were not prepared
to unfold their lives and pursuits, at all
events so far as he was concerned, and he both
feared and reprobated that favourite pastime
of the present day called " chaff." He was
conscious of much inability to take part in
that amusement, and that when cast amongst
it he was like the blind man in the game of
blind man's buff, the recipient of many
weeks, buffets, and pinches, and with no recollection
of having caught any one.

The comedy came to a conclusion amidst
tumultuous applause, all the performers were
'^ called," and then came a pause before the
after-piece, during which the Mayor and a few
of the leading citizens went behind the scenes

to congratulate the manager. It was not to
be supposed that fussy, pompous Mr. Totterdell,
who had finally convinced himself that he was
the founder of the Theatre Royal, Baum-borough,
would neglect this ceremony. But
although he had haunted the building: during
its growth, Mr. Totterdell was a novice behind
the scenes. He lost his way, got his toes trod
on by carpenters and scene-shifters, and finally
was brought up " all standing " in speechless
astonishment at coming across the flippant
stranger engaged in conversation with a lady
whom he at once recognized as the portrayed
of '' Mary Netley " in the comedy.

'' If you are looking for the manager's room
it's there to the left. Here, one of you fellows,
just show this gentleman to Mr. Sampson's
room, will you, please," said the stranger airily.

^'Who is he? Who the devil is he?"
muttered Totterdell, as he followed his guide.
'' I'll ask Sampson ; he's sure to know."

But in that Mr. Totterdell was mistaken,

the manager had a somewhat numerous levee,
and consequently but little time to give to
any one individual. He could naturally give
no answer as to who a man was whom he
didn't see, and had very insufficient time
to have described to him. Mr. Totterdell
emerged from Mr. Sampson's sanctum no whit
the wiser, only to find the stranger still discoursing
volubly with some other members of
the company, and the old gentleman's curiosity
began to attain white heat concerning
whom he might be.

John Fossdyke had not been amongst those
who had " gone round " to congratulate Mr.
Sampson, and to drink success to the Baum-borough
Theatre, for the champagne corks
were flying in the manager's room ; that wine,
as is well known, being rather a specialty of
all theatrical enterprises. The Town Clerk
certainly justified the stranger's criticism, and
looked as if, though some sense of duty constrained
him to be there, his thoughts were

miles away. He looked round the house very
little, and gazed at the stage in a dreamy,
abstracted manner that attracted his wife's
attention. She could not understand her
restless energetic husband in this absent and
apathetic state, and at last said to him, " Are
you ill, John ? If so, perhaps we had better
go home at once."

*' No, nothing is the matter. I have a bit
of a headache, but I will see it out. "We
must, Mary; the carriage won't turn up till
the performance is over, remember."

In the mean time the stranger had once
more resumed his seat at Mr. Totterdell's
side, and that gentleman determined once
more to try a little cross-examination.

"You seem tolerably at home behind the
scenes, sir," he remarked.

Yes," rejoined the other, carelessly, " the
back of the floats is no novelty to me ; but,"
he continued, laughing, *' considering you
built the theatre, it struck me you weren't

very good at finding your way about, you
seemed regularly dumbfoozled."

Llr. Totterdell swelled like an outraged
turkey-cock. Was this the way to address
a Town Councillor ? And he had given the
stranger clearly to understand that he held
that dignified office. He did not exactly
know what dumbfoozled might mean, but
nobody could regard the being told they
looked dumbfoozled as complimentary.

Well, I can t afford to see this farce out,
good though it is," and as he spoke, the
strand-er rose, drew a silk muffler out of the
pocket of his overcoat, which had been
hanging over the back of his stall, and ashe
did so, a piece of paper, evidently drawn
out with the muffler, fluttered to the ground.
Mr. Totterdell was fascinated ; his eyes had
caught the fall of the paper ; could he but
obtain it he would very likely get at what
he was so anxious to know, namely, who the
stranger was. It was a blank envelope, that

much Mr. Totterdell could see already. The
stranger was most provokingly deliberate
about muffling his throat and o;ettino^ into
his overcoat ; but at last, all unconscious of
his loss, he bade Mr. Totterdell a courteous
good night and left the theatre. Mr. Totter-dell
waited a few minutes to be quite sure of
his departure, gazed furtively around to see
if he was observed, — no, all eyes were on
the stage, — and then pounced upon the envelope.
It was open and unaddressed ; and
from the interior Mr. Totterdell extracted a
theatrical bill. It was the programme of the
Syringa Music-Hail ; lessee, Mr. Foxborough ;
and once again Mr. Totterdell felt that the
acquisition of knowledge of our fellows is
sometimes an arduous and difficult pursuit.

But the curtain comes down at last amidst
a storm of applause, in response to which it
again rises, and " God save the Queen " is
sung by the whole company. This was
hardly a success, the orchestra and the

VOL. I. K

leading lady who took the solos not being
altogether in accord about the key, while the
company generally seemed each to have their
own version of the National Anthem, and
adhere to it with contemptuous disregard of
their companions. Still, as the audience made
their way to their respective homes, they
agreed that the Marlborough Theatre was a
great success. Mr. Totterdell only felt discontented.
The mysterious stranger weighed
upon his mind. Who the deuce was he ?
The music-hall bill that ]mr. Totterdell had
so eagerly pounced upon even that gentleman
was fain to confess told nothing ; people of
all classes went to such places of amusement,
and though Mr. Totterdell had never heard
of the particular hall in question, he made
no doubt it was much of a muchness with
other places of the kind. No, there was
nothing to be made out of that, yet Mr.
Totterdell literally yearned to know who the
stranger might be.

Breakfast at Dyke was at an early hour,
and the post-bag generally arrived in the
middle of that meal. John Fossdyke opened
it as usual next morning, and distributed the
letters, and then began leisurely to run
through his own. Suddenly an ejaculation
escaped him, and it was plain to Bessie and
Mrs. Fossdyke, who looked towards him at
the half cry, that the letter he was reading
moved him terribly. For a moment his face
blanched to his very lips and his mouth
quivered — the hand that held the letter shook,
and Mrs. Fossdyke, springing from her chair,
exclaimed, " Good heavens ! John, what is the
matter ? "

The Town Clerk mastered himself by a
supreme effort, and rejoined in husky tones,
Nothing, Mary, nothing now ; please don t
fidget."

But you have heard bad news of some
sort ? "

"Yes, I have heard bad news. Now, do

R 2

sit do^Yn, and don't make a fuss. I must
go over to Bunbury this afternoon, and may
not be back, in fact, shall probably not get
back to-night."

'* But, John, it is only an hour's rail to
Bunbury ; surely you can get through your
business and come home by the last train.
You look so ill, I shall feel dreadfully uneasy
if you don't come back."

Miss Hyde looked anxious, although she
forbore to speak.

No, I don't think it likely I shall be able
to get back to-night. Tell Robert to put up
a few things in my bag and bring it down
to the office. Good-bye, Mary, good-bye,
Bessie ; " and John Fossdyke kissed his wife
with unusual, gravity, and went his way.

CHAPTER XL

"a dixxer at the hopbixe."

BuxBURY was a pretty, old-fashioned little
town, distant some thirty miles from Flamborough,
with which it had direct communication
by rail. Bunbury rather turned up
its nose at Marlborough, although double its
size, as an essentially modern production, for
Bunbury had been the resort of the cream
of society a hundred years ago, when
Marlborough, albeit in existence, was of
very small account. Bunbury lay in a
hole, but boasted a Spa, a delightful old-world
promenade fringed with trees, and
shops under shady arcades, and assembly
rooms, which enjoyed a prestige of the past.

Inhabitants of Bimbuiy who accosted you told
you of all sorts of royalties and celebrities
who had disported themselves in minuet and
country dance upon those boards, while the
pump-room had in its day enjoyed a celebrity
only second to Bath. It was a delicious,
dreamy old town for an overworked man to
come to ; the quaint old red-brick houses and
that delightful drowsy old promenade, with
its benches, whereon to sit and listen to the
everlasting German band, a good one be it
understood, was just the perfection of utter
indolence. The country all round, too, was
charming with its luxuriance of wood interspersed
by occasional glorious patches of
moorland, and made Bunbury a place much
in voffue with London men who wanted a few
days' rest, for it was no great distance from the
metropolis, and the communication easy.

Bunbury, built in a hole, or perhaps I should
say at the foot of a hill, had gradually spread
up the ascent, the sides of which were now

Builded with villas and hotels, and it is with
one of these last we have now to do. The
'' Hoping " had been one of the very first
hostelries built, as the townspeople would say,
'' up hill." It was an old-fashioned house, and
though with a capital name, and very good
quiet country connection, was completely
eclipsed by its more magnificent neighbours.
Still its habitues where wont to assert that
there was a good deal more comfort to be got
out of the unpretentious Hoping than out of
its more gorgeous competitors, and that old
Joe Marlinson had better stuff in his cellars
than any one else in Bunbury. The landlord
was a bit of a character. He had a fairish sum
of money laid by, at all events enough to
make him independent, and though courteous
ever to his regular customers, or to any one he
reckoned a gentleman, he could be unmistakeably
awkward to those who did not come up to
what he considered the Hoping standard, for
the old man was fussily convinced that the

Hoping was the leading inn in Bunbury, and
that no real gentry ever went to those newfangled
hotels. Joe Marlinson, who looked
like a respectable old butler in appearance,
and dressed in a somewhat bygone fashion, still
held to the venerable term inn, and alluded to
"those hotels" with undisguised contempt.
The Hoping paid its way doubtless, but
worked as it was under Joe Marlinson's rule,
it was a house no man could get much of a
living out of. Old Marlinson worked it more
for pleasure than profit, and were you not a
gentleman in his practised eyes, he would as
soon be rid of you as not. He didn't care so
much about what a customer spent as what he
was — he was always saying the old house
should never lose caste in his day. It had
never , entertained any but quality, and it
never should while he lived. It always had
been the inn of the country gentlemen round
Bunbury, and he wasn't going to keep a house
for riff-raff.

One Saturday afternoon there arrived at
the Hoping a gentleman from London, who
desired a bed-room and sitting-room from that
day till Monday. Although he had engaged
a sittings-room, he elected to dine in the coffee-room.
Having finished his dinner, he desired
the waiter to get him an evening paper,
without thinking that this merely meant
his seeing the first edition of the Globe,
which he had read comings down in the train.
When he became aware of his mistake, he
exclaimed, " Pooh, waiter, I have seen this.
Get me something else. Haven't you a local
paper ? "

The waiter produced the Banbury Chronicle,
after which the stranger proceeded to meditate
and sip his coffee. At last he once more
called the waiter and said, " I see there's
a new theatre open at Marlborough on
Monday, I suppose I can get back if I goto
it ? "

*' Oh, yes, sir ; train leaves Marlborough

at 11.40, arrives at Bunbury 12.35 — just
suits, sir."

All right, then, let 'em know at the bar ;
ril stay over Monday night. And now,
where's the smoking-room ? "

*' Beg pardon, sir, but we haven't a regular
smoke-room. You can smoke here, sir, after
nine o'clock, and it only wants half an hour.
Anything more, sir ? "

No ; might prove a little too much for
the establishment if I gave any more orders
just now. I'll stroll outside with my cigar."

The gentleman of No. 11, for want of a
better designation the Hoping was compelled
to christen him by the number of his room,
led a quiet, inoffensive life all Sunday and
Monday. He read, wrote, and smoked a
good deal in his sitting-room, but as he
received neither letters nor teleo-raras, the
Hoping remained in complete ignorance of
No. ll's actual status in this world, which
a little annoyed Mr. Marliuson. Still his

guest was quiet and inoffensive, giving himself
neither airs nor the house trouble, and
though Joe Marlinson's mind misgave him No.
11 was not a genuine gentleman, still he
thought he might pass in these democratic
days. On the Monday No. 11 dined early,
and went to attend the Marlborough theatre.
He returned that night, and the next morning
gave notice in the bar that he should remain
another day, ordered dinner for two in his
own sitting-room, and said he expected a
gentleman to dine with him, who might
probably want a bed. That afternoon the
gentleman arrived, and a good deal to the
astonishment of the house, turned out to be
Mr. Fossdyke, the well-known Town Clerk
and solicitor of Marlborough. Mr. Fossdyke
asked for No. 11 as Mr. Foxborough, and
for the first time Joe Marlinson and his
myrmidons became aware of No. ll's name.

The two gentlemen sat down to as good
a dinner as the Hoping could serve up, for

No. 11 had particularly remarked in ordering
it that he would leave it chiefly to the cook,
but let there be grouse, and let it be a good
dinner. He had conferred with Mr. Marlinson
on the subject of wines, and not a little
ruffled that worthy's bristles by receiving his
almost confidential mention of some very old
port with a deprecating smile, and observing —

A grand wine, no doubt, the wine of a
past generation, who had time to nurse their
gout when they got it — somewhat obsolete
in these days of hurry and dyspepsia. No,
my good friend, the driest champagne you
have in the cellar for dinner and a good
sound claret afterwards. That I think will
do, and if you have any belief in your
champagne, don't over ice it, mind."

Old Marlinson was not a little nettled by
this cool customer. The offering to produce
that treasured old port at all was, he considered,
a piece of condescension on his part
to a stranger, and that it should not have

been greatly appreciated ruffled the old man
not a little. He had small opinion of men
who neither drank old ale nor old port. A
very antiquated landlord indeed was mine
host of the Hoping. He got out the required
wines, and indignantly intended leaving their
preparation and distribution to the head
waiter, instead of bringing in the first bottle
of port after dinner as was his custom ; but
upon seeing that Mr. Fossdyke was the guest,
he changed his mind and resolved to have
an eye on things. Mr. Fossdyke was a man
of position and repute round the country-side.
Not county family exactly, though Mr. Foss-dyke
through his wife claimed connection
with more than one of them, but a bustling,
energetic man much respected and looked upto.
In short, old Joe Marlinson thought it by
no means inconsistent with his dignity to just
pay the compliment of pouring out a glass
of wine to a man of Mr. Fossdyke's calibre.
It struck the waiter, and also the landlord.

who contrived to be in the room when Mr.
Fossclyke arrived, that there was no great
amount of geniality in the greeting of the
two men, nor, good though the dinner was,
did they seem to thaw under the influence
of toothsome soup and side-dish, or sparkling
wine. Their talk seemed somewhat constrained,
and not of the gay, bordering on
boisterous, nature that is apt to characterize
the meeting of two old chums in a iefe-d-tite
dinner. Especially did it strike old Joe
Marlinson that Mr. Fossdyke seemed out of
spirits, and though he gulped down bumpers
of champagne, his appetite seemed very indifferent.
There was an irritability about him,
too, which Marlinson, who knew him well,
had never seen before. Dinner ended, the
host with no little pomposity put a bottle of
his best claret on the table and then withdrew.
It was apparently approved, for another bottle
and yet another followed, and it was on n earing
the door with this last, in that stealthy

way characteristic of waiters, that Thomas,
the official in question, caught Mr. Fossdyke's
voice raised in anger, and as he entered the
room heard the stranger reply in cold, rasping
tones, *' The game is in my hands, and those
are my terms." The words struck him as
rather peculiar, but presuming it to be some
business dispute, he did not think very much
of it. The stance between the two men was
late ; brandies and soda followed the claret,
and though Mr. Fossdyke was not reputed a
wine-bibber, he certainly was by no means
abstemious this night.

The Hoping was an early house, and Bun-bury
might certainly claim to be an early
place. It was only here and there that the
unhallowed click of the billiard balls could
be heard even after eleven. Bunbury was
Arcadian in its habits, blessed, doubtless, withall
the petty spites and malice' we shall
recognize in that visionary land when we
get there. At a few minutes after eleven.

Thomas the waiter inquired if No. 11 would
require anything more before the bar closed,
and being answered in the negative, wished
the gentlemen good night, and was about to
leave the room, when the stranger called him
back, said that he must leave by the 8.30
train for London next morning, requested that
his bill might be ready, and himself called
accordingly — that is, a good hour before.
Thomas carried out these orders, gave due
notice in the bar, and having done that betook
himself to bed.

Mr. Foxborough responded promptly to the
chamber-maid's appeal next morning. He was
ready in good time, swallowed a cup of tea,
bolted an egg, paid his bill, including the
preceding night's dinner, and departed to the
station in the hotel omnibus, an institution
which, much against his grain, Joe ]rawlinson
had found himself compelled to adopt. Mr.
Fossdyke was late next morning, very late ;
but though Marlinson knew the Town Clerk

very well it was the first time he had ever
stayed at the Hoping, and consequently they
knew nothing of his habits. Upon the few
occasions that John Fossdyke had slept in
Bunbury he had stayed at the house of a
friend, but it was rarely when business called
him there that he did not manage to get back
to Baumborouo;h at night. Still, thou oh he
had given no orders, the head chambermaid
thought she miolit take it on her own responsibility
to knock at his door at ten, a
late hour for Bunbury, but there was no reply ;
and that damsel, knowing from the depths of
her experience that men sometimes were long
sleeping off their wine, and having gathered
from Thomas that No. ll's little dinner had
been prolific in the matter of drink, troubled
her head no more until about twelve, when
she again tapped at the door. That is the
discomfort of these semi-civilized districts ; in
our provincial hotels, as in America, they won't
let you sleep. In London or Paris I don't

VOL. I. s

suppose they would disturb you for two or
three days ; they understand the cosmopolitan
citizen in those places, who is very uncertain
in his getting up and lying down. However,
again that chambermaid met no response, and
again she went away on the fidget. No
uneasiness, bear in mind, with regard to the
health of John Fossdyke, but she liked to see
her rooms done by midday or thereabouts, and
Mr. Fossdyke was upsetting the whole of
her routine by his persistent slumbers. It is
astonishing; how interfering with their routine
exasperates people, and that men should ever
invite one to breakfast is cause of enmity in
the minds of many; there are those, remember,
who would always prefer attending a friend's
funeral to his breakfast. The one is a final
solemnity, the other capable of ghastly repetition.
Those breakfasts of Refers make one
shiver to read about. A sarcasm with your
French roll, and your cutlet served up in
an epigram at your own expense.

But in the mean time we are forgetting
John Fossdyke. Two o'clock came, and still
the Town Clerk made no sign. That a man
could slumber to that hour in the day was
beside the Hoping experience. The chambermaid
knocked once more, and this time asa
person having authority, who would not
longer be denied ; but still there was no
response nor sound to be heard from within
the chamber. The woman got uneasy, and resolved
to acquaint her master. Mr. Marlinson
opened his eyes wide when he heard of the
state of things. He in particular, of specially
early habits, could understand no man taking
such prolonged and unnatural rest. Mr. Foss-dyke
might have had a fit ; the chambermaid
vas instructed to batter the door once more,
and, failing to get reply, to immediately report
the same to Mr. Marlinson.

The woman did as she was bid, but speedily
returned to say that she could get no answer
whatever from Mr. Fossdyke's chamber, and

S 3

her face showed clearly that she feared something
amiss. Old Marlinson himself thought
the thing looked serious, and at once ascended
the stairs, and after delivering himself of a
storm of knocks, enough to have awakened
the seven sleepers, without response, he turned
the handle.

*' It's no use, sir," said the chambermaid ;
it's locked. I tried it myself before I came
to you."

But the lock was only such as is on ordinary
bedroom doors, there was no bolt, and at the
instigation of his master the boots, with a
vigorous kick or two, speedily burst it open.
The blinds were drawn close, and the glimmer
of daylight that penetrated the apartment did
not at first permit eyes blinded with the full
flood of sunlight to see what was within the
room ; but already a great awe fell upon
them ; and the unbroken stillness told them
they were in the presence of a terrible tragedy.
Quickly old Marlinson entered the room and

drew up the blind from the nearest window,
and then a scream from the chambermaid
broke the silence. Half-dressed under the
window at the other side of the room lay
John Fossdyke, a smile almost on his face,
but with a quaint, old-fashioned dagger buried
in his heart. A chair and the writing-table
which stood in the window were both upset,
but otherwise there was no sign of a severe
struo^ofle, neither was there much blood. The
weapon, the obvious cause of death, had been
left in the wound, and prevented any great
effusion of blood. The shirt-front was a little
stained, that was all.

For a few seconds old Joe Marlinson stood
stupefied. Murder is happily not customary
in hotels, and the present tragedy was quite
outside the old man's experience. The boots,
a practical man, was the first to recall him to
a sense of the situation.

I suppose, sir," he said, after raising the
dead man's head for a moment, and then

becoming conscious of the inability of any one
in this world to do aught for him, once more
gently allowing it to rest upon the floor — " I
had best fetch the police and send for a
doctor."

Fetch the police ! Yes," repeated old
Marlinson, rousing himself — " yes, and a
doctor, and in the mean time close this room ;
and mind," he said, turning to the chambermaid,
" nobody is to enter it. Draw a table,
or something, across the door, as the lock is
broke," and then the old gentleman went
down to his snuggery and pondered what he
should do next.

The result of his cogitations was that
evening Dr. Inglebyby received a telegram —

"Something very serious happened to Mr.
Fossdyke ; please come over by first train.

From Joseph Marlinson, Hoping Hotel,
Bunbury."

CHAPTER XII.

sergeant SILAS USHER.

Chief-Inspector Thresher, head of the
Banbury police force, was a shrewd energetic
officer, and no sooner was the intelligence of
the murder at the Hoping conveyed to him
than he at once started for that hostelry.
When he arrived he found Doctor Duncome, a
good old-fashioned leading physician of the
town, already in the room, with Joe Marlinson,
the boots, William Gibbons, and Eliza Salter,
the head chambermaid. Dr. Duncome's examination
was short and conclusive ; there
could be no doubt but what Mr. Fossdyke was
dead, and had been, in the doctor's opinion
dead for some hours. He withdrew the

dagger gently from the breast, thereby occasioning
some slight additional effusion of
blood, and solemnly informed his auditors
that, which no one of them had ever doubted,
was the cause of death, and then handed the
weapon over to the Inspector. It was a queer
little Eastern dagger such as one might pickup
easily in Cairo, Constantinople, Algiers, or,
for the matter of that, even in London. The
sort of weapon that tourists are rather given
to purchase, turning them into drawing-room
toys or paper-knives. '' It has pierced the
heart, so far as I can judge without the postmortem,
which will of course follow, and that
naturally would cause death almost instantaneously,"
continued the doctor, and there
his part in the business for the present
ended ; but it was of course far otherwise
with the Inspector.

He naturally had to hear whatever information
the inmates of the house had to give,
and was speedily in possession of the story of

Mr. Foxborouorh's arrival there on the Saturday,
how he stayed on and went to the
opening of the Marlborough Theatre on
Monday, how the deceased gentleman arrived
to dine with him on the Tuesday night, how
high words had been heard to pass between
them, and how early upon Wednesday morning
Mr. Foxborough settled his bill and departed.
Mr. Marlinson, the boots, and the chambermaid
were unanimous in their opinion that No. 11
was the probable perpetrator of the crime ;
and as Inspector Thresher continued to sift all
the evidence he could collect, he was fain to
admit it was difficult to point with suspicion
to any one else. A further examination of the
dead man's chamber showed his watch and
purse untouched on the dressing-table, nor
did it seem likely that any property had been
taken from his room. Plunder, then, clearly
was not the motive of the murder. On the
other hand, he had come over on purpose to
meet this Mr. Foxborough. That there had

been little cordiality between them was borne
witness to by both the landlord and waiter ; in
fact, in the opinion of both of those the manner
of the two men towards each other had been
markedly constrained, and very different from
what might have been expected under the
circumstances. Further, there were the high
words which the waiter had heard, and the
rather remarkable expression which Mr. Fox-borough
had made use of — " The game is in my
hands, and those are my terms." And yet these
words hardly justified the conclusion that their
utterer would rise in the dead of the night
and slay his guest. Another thing, too, that
seemed to indicate John Fossdyke had been
foully murdered was that the key of the room
was gone. If it was a case of suicide the key
would have been probably in the lock, but at
all events would have been found within the
room. The doctor had said that, as far as he
could judge from the rapid examination of the
body he had made, it was possible that Mr.

Fossdyke was self-murdered, though lie did
not for one moment believe suevi to be the
case. Further questioning of the boots
elicited the fact that Mr. Foxborough had
taken a ticket for London. He, William
Gibbons, the boots, had gone down with the
omnibus to the station, as he constantly did,
seen Mr. Foxborough into the train, and put
his portmanteau into the carriage with him ;
it was a small portmanteau, such as gentlemen
put up their things in for a few days' visit.
It was the through morning train to town,
patronized chiefly by the business men living
at Bunbury, and stopped nowhere between
that place and London.

Having further ascertained that Mr.
Marlinson had telegraphed to Dr. Inglebyby, at
Marlborough, Inspector Thresher, after a
little reflection, thought that the best thing he
could* do was to communicate in the same way
with Scotland Yard, as the apprehension of
Mr. Foxborough must undoubtedly devolve

upon the London police. By this time, as
may be supposed, the news of the murder had
spread through all Bunbury and created a
profound sensation, for the Town Clerk was
known to most of the leading citizens, more or
less ; and there is something thrilling: when
one we have known comes to a tragical ending
in our midst. People congregated in
knots on the promenade, and discussed the
details of the murder as far as they had yet
transpired in subdued voices, and those who
could recall having seen the mysterious
stranger were in great request and eagerly
questioned. As for William Gibbons, he was
quite overwhelmed with pints of ale and his
own popularity. As a rule Bunbury was not
wont to exhibit much solicitude about the
thirst of William, but at present they seemed
in a conspiracy to quench it if practicable, and
it may be here remarked that William, when
it came to sound ale, would have bothered a
garden-engine on that score.

Joe Marlinson had turned remarkably sulky
over the whole affair, refused to talk about
it, and was evidently in high dudgeon that
anybody should have had the presumption to
commit such a terrible crime in an old well-established
county-house like the Hoping.
Regret for poor John Fossdyke seemed to be
submerged in the old man by the indignation
occasioned by the tragedy having occurred at
the Hoping. Listening to his angry muttering
one could almost believe that there were
inns kept expressly in which to make away
with one's fellow-creatures, and once again
was reminded that from time immemorial
the absurdly grotesque is running close alongside
the saddest catastrophes. The evening
brought two men to Bunbury, who arrived
there from opposite directions. The first was
Dr. Inglebyby, who had heard the whole story of
the murder of his old friend while waiting for
the train upon Marlborough platform from
Phil Soames, who in his turn had learnt it

from the guard who had come by the previous
train from Bunbury, and who had charge of a
retriever for that gentleman ; the meeting of
which animal indeed was the cause of Phil's
presence at the station.

I haven't time to think much about it,"
exclaimed Dr. Inglebyby. " I must go on to
the Hoping, though I shall come back by
the next train. From what you tell me
my presence there is useless, and I shall be
more wanted at Dyke. But, Phil, you must
do something for me. Mrs. Fossdyke must
not be left to learn these awful tidings by
chance, and now the news is once in Baum-borough,
no one can say when it will reach
her. You must go out to Dyke and break
it. No pleasant task I'm setting you, my
boy, but I've known you from a child, and
I know you're true grit. I think, perhaps,
if you broke it first to Miss Hyde it would
be best. She's a steady, sensible girl that,
and I have an idea would come out in an

emergency like this. Good-bye, and use your
own discretion as to how, but mind, it must,
be told. Here's the train."

'^ Good-bye, and trust me to do my best,
doctor," rejoined Phil ; " though, God knows,
it's a terrible task you've set me."

Arrived at Bunbury, Dr. Inglebyby drove
straight to the Hoping, where he was cordially
received by old Marlinson.

Course I knew you'd come, doctor, and I
dare say heard the awful news before you
got here. It's dreadful to think of poor
Lawyer Fossdyke being murdered at all, but
that the infernal scoundrel should have the
audacity to lure him to the Hoping, of all
places in the world, beats me. Ordered the
best of everything in the house, too, and
turned up his nose at my old port. I ought
to have known he was no fit company for
the Hoping by that."

'' Never mind that just now, Marlinson. I
want to take a last look at my old friend.

and then I must hurry back to Marlborough.
Eemember, that those near and dear to hai
have to hear all about this, and it will bea
dreadful blow to them. Poor Mrs. Foss-dyke
was wonderfully attached to her husband,
and will feel it bitterly."

"Come this way, sir. I allow no one
into the room, according with Mr. Thresher's
orders. He lays a good deal of stress on
the London men whom he expects down seeing
it exactly as he found it," and taking
a candle, Marlinson led the way.

The room was just as it had been when
first burst into, with the exception that the
dead man had been lifted from the floor,
laid reverently upon the bed, and covered
with a sheet. Dr. Inglebyby drew back the
cloth from over the face, and gazed sadly
upon the features of his unfortunate friend,
placed his fingers mechanically on the heart,
and then peered down upon the small, clear
cut through which a man's life had welled.

He knew John Fossdyke was dead ; it was
evident to his practised eye that stab had
killed him. "What motive could John Foss-dyke's
murderer have had ?

*from what I'm told, you knew Mr.
Fossdyke well, and can perhaps, therefore,
clear up at once the first important fact in
the case. Dr. Inglebyby," said a voice at his
elbow, which made him start, and then he
became aware of two other figures in the
room, and turned sharply to survey them.
One he at once recognized as Inspector
Thresher, chief of the Bunbury police force
the other, and it was he that had spoken,
was a little wiry, grizzle-haired man, clean-shaved,
and dressed in most ordinary fashion,
with a pair of restless, bright hazel eyes,
that seemed wandering in all directions.

Fm Silas Usher, Criminal Investigation
Department, Scotland Yard," continued the
little grey man, " and I'm in charge of this
murder. I have heard the rough particulars

VOL. I. T

from my friend, Inspector Thresher, and
must be back in town by the night train.
I'm always open about what I'm driving at ;
odd that you'll say for a man of my profession,
but I find nothing pays better. I
tell people I want to know the way to
Ramsgate say, having told them who I am.
Well, this is the result, those who are straight,
give me all the information they can, those
who are not, imagine at once I want to goto
Margate, and are, therefore, profuse also
in their information with regard to the road
to Ramsgate.'^

It is superfluous to observe that Sergeant
Silas Usher by no means conducted his inquiries
with this primitive simplicity. He
was indeed one of the most astute officers in
the force, having strongly pronounced that
first great faculty of the detective policeman,
rapid inductive reasoning.

And what, Mr. Usher, is the question
you wish to ask me ? " inquired Dr. Inglebyby.

'' This, sir. I want you to see the dagger
with which Mr. Fossdyke was slain, and tell
me whether you recognize it as his.

You see, sometimes," added Mr. Usher,
"when we are called in this way the first
thing to ascertain is whether there has been
a murder committed at all. Lots of times
when people are missing their friends rush
to the conclusion they are murdered, and it
very soon turns out they are all alive, though
not doing exactly what they ought. In a
case like this my experience tells me the first
cry will be murder naturally ; but there is
a great probability of its being suicide. Still,
what looks like clearing that question up is
the weapon that caused death. I have seen
it down at Thresher's place, and it is peculiar.
I don't mean to say there never was another
like it, but they would be decidedly rarely
met with. Some of Mr. Fossdyke's relatives
and friends must know if he owned such a
dagger. If he did it may be fairly presumed

T 2

a case of suicide ; if, on the other hand, no
one ever saw such a weapon in his possession,
it is fair to argue the other way, and presume
it is murder, and the peculiarity of the
weapon is a strong clue to the ultimate
finding of the murderer."

Well, I've not seen it yet," rejoined Dr.
Inglebyby.

I know, sir," interrupted Mr. Usher, " but
you will just look in at Thresher's place on
the way to the train. Can't delay you two
minutes, mere question whether you recognize
that dagger as the property of the deceased
or not. Of course your answer in the negative
would not be final, but if some of his
friends recognize it I should very much
doubt there being any murder at all about
the business."

Once more did Dr. Inglebyby turn and look
sorrowfully at the features of his energetic
and somewhat combative friend, whose determination
and fluent tongue would never

trouble men more ; then gently drawing the
sheet over the face, he announced himself in
readiness to accompany Sergeant Usher to the
police office. Upon being shown the dagger
he at once said that he had never seen it
before. He had been very intimate with the
deceased, and had been a constant visitor to
his house, but he had never set eyes upon the
weapon in question. He was quite sure if
he had ever seen it he couldn't have forgotten
it.

"This Mr. Foxborough, may I ask if you
ever saw or heard of him ? "

I not only never saw him, but have no
recollection of ever hearing such a name in
my life," replied Dr. Inglebyby ; " but it is fair
to tell you that Mr. Fossdyke had business
connections with many people of whom neither
his family nor friends knew anything. He
was a man reticent in business matters, as
men of his profession are bound to be. Nobody
employs a gabbling solicitor."

Thank you, sir ; that's all I want to
know at present. Our people, whom I have
informed by telegraph, will, what we call,
reckon up all the Foxboroughs in London in
the next forty-eight hours. I am taking up
a tolerably accurate verbal picture of the one
who was here, but the key to the whole thing,
I fancy, is not to be found in Bunbury."

Not to be found here," ejaculated Inspector
Thresher ; " why, you have got witnesses to
identify, and all the rest, in the town. You've
only got to find the man."

That's just it, my good friend, and the
clue to his whereabouts don't seem to be in
Bunbury."

Dr. Inglebyby looked hard at the speaker ashe
said quietly —

I should have thought you would have
traced him from this place most readily '? "

Perhaps you are right," replied Sergeant
Usher ; " but Tm a pig-headed sort of man,
who can only reckon up matters my own

way. But it's time I was off to the station,
and you also, sir."

The two accordingly made their way to
the railway, and after the two policemen
had seen Dr. Inglebyby off to Marlborough,
Inspector Thresher bade farewell to his professional
brother as the up-train for London
ran into the station.

You'll be down again for the inquest, of
course ? " remarked Thresher, as he shook
hands.

Yes ; but I tell you candidly I don't think
we shall make much out of that ; but there's
no saying. Good-bye."

End OF VOL. I.

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 042045440

»*«c«F

OF THL

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

The person borrowing this material is
responsible for its renewal or return
before the Latest Date stamped belo^^. You
may be charged a minimum fee of $75.00
for each non-returned or lost item.
Theft, mutilation, or defacement of library materials can
be causes for student disciplinary action. All materials
owned by the University of Illinois Library are the
property of the State of Illinois and ore protected by
Article 1 6B of Illinois Criminal Law and Procedure.
TO RENEW, CALL (217) 333-8400.
University of Illinois Library at Urbana-Champaign

bS

i-JOi.

When renewing by phone, write new due date
below previous due date. LI 62

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/atfault02smar

AT FAULT,

VOL. II.

% io&H.

BY

HAWLEY SMART,

ArXHOE OF
BJBEEZIE LANGTON," " Broken BONDS," " SOCUX StSNEBS,'
THE GREAT TONTIXE," ETC., ETC.

For the lords in whose keeping the door is

That opens on all who draw breath,
Gave the cypress to love, my Dolores,
The myrtle to death."

IN THREE VOLUMES.— VOL. D.

LONDOIs^ :
CHAPMAN k HALL, Limited, 1L HENRIETTA ST.

1883.

fall Rights reserved.]

CLAY AND TAYLOR, Peters.

CONTENTS OF VOLUME II.

CHAPTER I.

MR. Tottered's EXCITEMENT . . 1

CHAPTER II.

CLUB GOSSIP . . . . 35

CHAPTER III.
"murder on the mind" . . . 56

CHAPTER IV.

THE INQUEST . . . . 68

CHAPTER V.

SERGEANT USHER VISITS THE Hoping . . 102

CHAPTER YI.

THE SERGEANT PUZZLED . . . 135

CHAPTER VII.

Prob

JOHN FOSSDYKE's AFFAIRS . . . 158

CHAPTER VIII.

"kisses and consolation" . . . 170

CHAPTER IX.

MR. Stilton IS Conscience-stricken . . 189

CHAPTER X.

SERGEANT USHER AT FAULT . . . 204

CHAPTER XL

BESSIE'S CONFESSION . . . 235

CHAPTER XII.

THE PHOTOGRAPH



CHAPTER I.

MR. Tottered's EXCITEMENT.

It was with a heavy heart that Phil Soames
made the best of his way to Dyke in accordance
with his promise to Dr. Inglebyby. He
was sincerely sorry for John Fossdyke, whom
he had known before he, Phil, emerged from
his teens, and had always liked. There had
been something attractive to a young fellow
in the Town Clerk's restless energy and go ;
in the keen way in which he threw himself
into the promotion of all amusement for
Marlborough. He had been the heart and

VOL. II. B

soul at one time of that very cricket club
of which Phil Soames was now the captain ;
not that Mr. Fossdyke had ever played, but
he had been a first-rate secretary, arranged
matches, &c., and really made the club ; had
put them on a sound financial footing, and
raised their cricketing status fifty per cent.
in the county. Then again, this was a terrible
story to have to tell a wife ; and Phil Soames,
who knew the menage well, and was a shrewd
observer, believed that though the Fossdykes
might tiff a bit, the lady really loved her
husband at bottom. However, as Dr. Inoleby
had said, the story had to be told, and that
quickly, and Phil Soames was not of the sort
that blench when called on to face awkward
work.

He rang the bell and looked at his watch
wien he arrived at Dyke. It was a little
awkward, it was just about the time the
ladies would be adjusting their toilettes for
dinner. When the door opened, he said at

once to the man-servant who opened it, ''I
must see Miss Hyde at once, Robert. I'll
step into the study and wait there. Tell
Miss Hyde I am here, if you can see her
alone, but say a person from. Marlborough
wants to see her if you can't. Not a word
to any one else. 1 am the bearer of bad
news, which you'll all know in 


Marvelling greatly, Robert left to do his
errand, and found Miss Hyde and Mrs. Foss-dyke
just leaving the drawing-room to dress.
Bessie, on learning the message, followed him
at once; and Mrs. Fossdyke, supposing that
the person from Marlborough was a tradesman
of some sort, went up-stairs to her room.

*' Philip ! " exclaimed Miss Hyde, as she
entered the study, even before the confidential
Robert was out of hearing, so
astounded was she at the appearance of
Mr. Soames in this fashion. " What does
this mean ? "

B 2

** Sit down, please," he replied, after he
had shaken hands. " Yes, in that big chair
will be best. I have come over to break
some terrible tidings to you. Mr. Fossdyke
has met with a very severe accident."

On the railway 1 " asked the girl, leaning
forward as the colour died out of her cheeks*
Is it — is it dangerous ? "

*' Yes, Bessie, I am very much afraid fatal,"
he replied gently. " Of course there is hope
while there is life," and then he dropped his
eyes, unable longer to confront the eager,
frightened gaze that met his own.

There is no hope, Philip — none. I can
read it in your face — he is dead, or dying.
Which ? tell me which, in pity's name."

Dead," he rejoined in a low voice.

It is very terrible," she murmured ;
what will his poor wife do ? She loved
him, Philip, indeed she did, though they
might not seem to quite hit it off at times.
And, oh, how good they have both been tome,"

and Bessie bowed her head, ad sobbed
audibly.

Soames let the girl's tears have full play ;
he felt that his task was but as yet only
half accomplished, and felt dreadfully nervous
about the telling how John Fossdyke really
came to his end.

'' I am better now," she said at length ; " tell
me where it happened, and how ? Of course,
I must break this to Mrs. Fossdyke, and she
will naturally desire to know all particulars."

Can you be very brave, Bessie ? Can you
bear to hear that there is something peculiarly
sad about Mr. Fossdyke's death. It was no
railway accident."

The girl's eyes dilated as she stared in
expectant bewilderment at Soames.

Nerve yourself," he continued ; " remember
we must look to you to support and
comfort Mrs. Fossdyke under her trial."

I understand," she said, faintly, *' go on,
please, quick."

Mr. Fossdyke has been murdered,"
rejoined Soames, in slow, measured tones ;
"stabbed to the heart in his bed at Bun-bury.


Bessie threw up her hands before her face
as if blinded.

Murdered," she said, in a low voice.
Good heavens, have they any suspicions
as to who is the assassin and what his
motive ? "

His motive ! No ; but there is strong
presumption that a Mr. Foxborough, who
invited him "

Oh, my God ! " exclaimed the girl, as she
fell back in her chair, blanched and all but
senseless. She looked so like swooning that
Phil was about to ring for assistance, when 9-
rapid gesture of her hand stayed him.

It only wanted this," she murmured, and
then she apparently became unconscious.

For a second or two Soames once more
fingered the bell, then glancing round the

room he rushed at a vase of flowers ; quick
as thought the blossoms lay scattered on the
carpet, and half of the water in which they
had stood was dashed into the fainting; mi's
face ; then soaking his handkerchief in the
remainder he proceeded to daub her temples
after the only conventional fashion understood
by male creatures. With a quick gasp or
two she came round in a few minutes.

"Keep quiet and don't try to talk yet,"
said Phil, authoritatively. " Shall I ring, or
would you rather I did not ? "

A slight but emphatic shake of the head
answered the question.

That the news of John Fossdyke's murder
should upset Miss Hyde was only natural.
She was a plucky girl, and had fought
bravely against the shock to her nerves, no
doubt ; but what puzzled Phil Soames washer
ejaculation just before she swooned — " It
only wanted this ! " AYhat could she mean ?
It must be remembered that the mystery

which she declared rendered her marriage
with him impossible was ever in the young
man's mind. Did her exclamation in anyway
relate to that ? He was still pondering
on this when Bessie, having in some measure
recovered herself, said : " Of course I must
tell Mrs. Fossdyke ; and now, Philip, I think
you had better go. It will be a terrible
night for us both ; and when you get back to
Flamborough tell Dr. Inglebyby to look in about
ten or so, if he can.

'' Certainly I will, but he has gone over to
Bunbury, and can scarcely be back so soon as
that. I shall meet him at the station, and
feel sure he means coming out before he goes
to bed. It was he who sent me here to
break it."

He's always so thoughtful," replied Bessie,
and as she spoke the door opened, and in
came Mrs. Fossdyke.

Well, upon my word," she exclaimed,
laughing. ** How do you do, Mr. Soames ?

and so, Bessie, this is the person from Baum-borough
; really, Philip, I could never have
believed in your obtaining entrance into my
house under such remarkably false colours.
AVhat am I to think ? — explain, young people,
explain. Am I to ask him to dinner, Bessie,
or not ? "

It was so evident to the pair that, far from
having the slightest inkling of the truth,
Mrs. Fossdyke merely suspected them of
having come to the understanding which she
had set her heart upon, that they both looked
so distressed the good lady could not but
notice it.

What is the matter with you both ? Have
you been quarrelling ? What is it ? You
both look as if you had come to infinite grief."

To hear the j)ooi' woman thus jesting at
what was in store for her was more than
Phil Soames could bear. '' No dinner tonight,
thanks, Mrs. Fossdyke ; good night.
Good night, Bessie, Miss Hyde I mean. God

bless you," and with this somewhat incoherent
speech, he took his departure.

No man could have been more curiously
moved by the death of a fellow creature than
was Mr. Totterdell when he. first heard of
the murder of John Fossdyke. He was a
fussy, garrulous, and inquisitive old man, and
had lately proved himself a rancorous old
man to boot with regard to the luckless Town
Clerk. He had fiercely resented the being
literally turned out of Dyke, but to do him
justice his enmity was not of that unsparing,
malignant kind that refused to be buried
in the grave. He was unfeignedly sorry for
the past, and deeply regretted that ever he
should have moved for an inquisition into
the financial affairs of the town. He had
lamented before that his wrath had moved
him to that step, it was subject of still bitterer
lamentation now. But as the details of the
murder reached Marlborough, there stole
across Mr. Totterdell a little glow of satisfaction

that he had in his writing-table drawer
that bill of the Syringa Music Hall, and was
not only one of those who had actually held
converse with the murderer, but was able to
point out to the police where he might be
found. Conscious of possessing this information,
Mr. Totterdeil positively swelled with
importance. To a man of his disposition
being the repository of the clue to a great
crime was delicious. He (Totterdeil) at all
events now must come prominently before
the public. His name would be in all the
papers, and to one of his incalculable vanity
this went for a good deal. To be pointed
out as the Mr. Totterdeil who led to the
solution of the great Bunbury murder was
fame. Questionable that perhaps, but for
the time being it would undoubtedly be
notoriety, a substitute that amply suffices
most people in these days. Then Mr. Totter-deil
remembered how he had actually pointed
out John Fossdyke to his supposed murderer.

and began to suffer colonies of remorse : but
again it occurred to him that it was the
stranger who had demanded who the Town
Clerk miorht be, and that had he refused
the required information his interlocutor would
have experienced no difficulty in obtaining
it from some one else ; so he became more
tranquil on this point. But to whom to
disburse himself of the mighty secret within
his breast troubled him much. Another thing,
too, which gave a singular titillation both to
Mr. Tottered ell's nerves and vanity, was the
idea that he had sat next a veritable murderer
at the theatre only twenty-four hours before
he committed his crime. Of this he made no
secret ; indeed, dilated on the subject al] over
Marlborough. Mr. Totterdell never tired of
describing the stranger nor improvising the
discourse that took place between them, and
that conversation so lengthened in proportion
to the number of times that Mr. Totterdell
recapitulated the story that it appeared impossible

that either he or the stranger could
have heard anything of the play.

Now there was one singular fact about all
this easily accounted for if you bear in mind
Mr. Totterdell's prevailing characteristics,
insatiable curiosity combined, remember, with
incalculable vanity, prompting him to obtain
notoriety at all hazards. The result was that,
freely as he talked of having met him in front
of the house, he was perfectly mute about
basins: come across Mr. Foxborouo^h behind
the scenes. He could, he thought, give all the
information concerning the stranger the police
could possibly require, and was jealous that
any one else should intrude themselves on his
platform. He proposed to pose as the main
witness in the great Bunbury murder case — a
mere matter of notoriety ! Quite so, but men
have risked their lives for nothing else time
out of mind, notably in the year of grace
1882 concerning: crossing the Channel in
balloons.

When Dr. Inglebyby, having returned from
Bunbury, got out to Dyke, he found that he
was most decidedly wanted. His old friend,
Mrs. Eossdyke, was perfectly stunned by the
news, and past anything but making one wild
wail of remorse for what she was pleased to
term her late unwisely behaviour. She reproached
herself bitterly about her last quarrel
with her husband, and wept piteously over
some misty idea that she had in some sort
contributed to the catastrophe. But what did
surprise Dr. Inglebyby was the excessive prostration
of Miss Hyde. The girl struggled
bravely against it, but her unutterable woe
was as unmistakable as it was difficult to
account for. Granted she had lost a very dear
friend, still it was hard to understand a tolerably
self-contained young lady like Miss Hyde
being so completely upset by it. She did her
best — she struggled hard to console and comfort
poor Mrs. Fossdyke, but Dr. Inglebyby was
fain to confess that she seemed more in need

of comforting herself. A case this in which
there was little to be done for either sufferer.
Words of consolation at such times seem
commonplace, and medical aid is superfluous.

But the next day Dr. Inglebyby was astonished
by the apparition of Sergeant Silas Usher in
his surgery — that he entered unannounced it
is almost unnecessary to say. Silas Usher
usually turned up without any official announcement.
He had a way of appearing at
people's sides in a stealthy, ghost-like fashion
positively appalling, and his very name
caused terror to the tip-top professors of the
art of burglary. It was related how one of
the great artists in that line had been utterly
paralyzed in his last exploit by having whispered
into his ears as he was clearing out a
countess's jewel-box, and greedily gloating over
a diamond bracelet, —

Very pretty, Bill Simmonds, ain't it ? but
it won't fit you anything like as well as these,"
and before the astonished robber could collect

his faculties the handcuffs snapped round his
wrists, and his retirement from a world he had
for some time adorned was an accomplished
fact.

I have just run down, sir, to make a few
inquiries in Marlborough, and you're the man
I want in the first instance. I don't want to
intrude on the family at Dyke, of course, hut
it is essential I should get answers from them
to these two questions : Did they ever know
a Mr. Foxborough, or hear of him ? and did
they ever see this in Mr. Fossdyke's possession
? " and Sergeant Usher produced the

fatal weapon which had been found in John

«
Fossdyke's breast ?

A slight shiver ran through Dr. Ingleby^s
frame, not at the sight of the weapon, for his
medical training had steeled his nerves to all
that sort of thing, but he did think it would
be a gruesome task to show that ghastly toy
to the mourners at Dyke.

*' Now don't you run away, doctor, with the

idea, that I'm a man of no feeling' exclaimed
the sergeant, who saw at a glance what was
passing through Dr. Inglebyby's mind. " Nobody
understands the susceptibilities more than I
do, and, bless you, nobody humours them
more. Now these are important questions,
and answers to 'em quite invaluable. But,
of course, you'll introduce this," he continued,
tapping the dagger, "as a paper knife found ina
half-cut novel which Mr. Foxborough left
inadvertently behind him. It is to spare all
unpleasantness I come to you. Introduce meas
what seems best to yourself, but you shall
make the inquiries. I only want to be present
when they are made, but I thmk you had
best admit at once I'm a police agent. As I
told you before, I'm in charge of this murder,
and it's a matter of professional pride to bring
it home to some one."

You seem pretty indifferent whom you
hang," rejoined Dr. Inglebyby sharply.

** Nothing of the kind, sir," replied Sergeant

VOL. II. c

6^

Usher, " but it is a sort of reproach to my
professional reputation not to pick up the
perpetrator of a big crime like this. More
especially because it seems so simple. Who
but Mr. Foxborough could have committed
this murder? I told you, sir, I am always
candid myself on principle, but we must have
the links in the chain complete, and that is
the reason I am compelled to disturb the ladies
at Dyke, almost in the first agonies of their
grief."

To-morrow, I might. Sergeant Usher, but
as the medical adviser of the family, I emphatically
say Mrs, Fossdyke and Miss Hyde
are too thoroughly crushed by this blow for
you to see them to-day. There are probably
one or two more points you would like to
question them over, and on the whole you will
benefit by the delay."

Silas Usher mused for a little, and then
said, "Well, it may be so. I, of course, am
very anxious to know what induced Mr.

Fossclyke to go over to Bunbury. We know
Foxborougli came here on Monday night. He
probably met the deceased and asked him to
dine, which from motives we have as yet no
clue to Mr. Fossdyke accepted ; but from the
witnesses at the Hoping, it does not appear
to have been simply a dinner between two old
friends. If the invitation was given verbally
it is very likely that some one heard it given.
At all events there must be people in Baum-borough
who noticed this stranger. If, which
may be possible, the man wrote, there's a
chance that the ladies at Dyke know something
about it, and that the letter is not as
yet destroyed. You see, Doctor, if you can
get hold of a man's handwriting, and this
Foxborougli was undoubtedly an educated
man, or if you can get hold of an accurate
description of him, you are pretty much upon
his track."

All of which makes it quite clear to me
that you won't altogether waste a day in

C 2

Marlborough, Sergeant Usher. At all events,
I'll not sanction you going out to Dyke
to-day."

It may be you're right, sir'' rejoined the
detective. " Anyhow, it seems I have got to
pass the day here, and therefore I must just
make the best of it. I'll call in tomorrow,
Doctor, to see what you can do for me. Good
morning."

That Sergeant Usher went about seeking
information would not at all describe that
worthy's proceedings, he simply pervaded the
town, he had something to say to every one,
and it was highly creditable to his versatility
and universal knowledge that the people with
whom he conversed differed largely about the
little grey man's calling. The ostler at the
King's Arms, where Mr. Usher was located,
had fio doubt whatever that he was somehow
connected with horses. At the principal
stationer's they put him down as having something
to do with theatricals, while other people

differed as to whether it was corn or cattle
the little gentleman at the King's Arms had
come down to buy. But that in the course of
three or four hours' gossiping with everybody
he came across, Sergeant Usher had arrived at
the fact that Mr. Foxborough had sat next Mr.
Totterdell in the stalls upon the opening night
of the theatre, and that nobody in 
knew so much about the whole affair
as that gentleman may easily be conceived.
Clearly Mr. Totterdell was the man the
Sergeant wanted, and to ascertain where Mr.
Totterdell lived was, of course, easy. Who
he was had been fully explained also — his
connection with Mrs. Fossdyke, his quarrel
with her husband, &c. All such local gossip
is easily picked up in an incredibly short time
in a country town by such a practised hand as
Sergeant Usher ; and further, the detective
had got a very fair inkling of what manner of
man Mr. Totterdell was.

The fussy town councillor dwelt in a

prim-looking house standing in an equally
prim-looking garden, situated in the outskirts
of the town, and thither towards the
afternoon Sergeant Usher made his way. He
was in exceeding good humour with himself,
for he considered he had done a very fair
morning's work, although most of his inform -
ants had been fain to admit they had not
noticed the stranger themselves ; while even
those that professed to have remarked him
were so vague and vacillating in their description
that the shrewd Sergeant Usher speedily
came to the conclusion that '* they thought
they'd seen him," was about what their
testimony really amounted to, but they were
all clear and confident that Mr. Totterdell
had conversed with the stranger, and could
describe his personal appearance, manner, &c. ;
indeed, it was he who had been asked to point
out Mr. Fossdyke by this Mr. Foxborough.

Mr. Totterdell was at home, and the
Sergeant was at once shown into his presence.

" Mr. Silas Usher," he repeated, reading
the name written on an envelope, which
had been sent into him. "May I ask what
your business is with me ? "

I thought maybe, sir, the name might
have told you. Silas Usher is pretty well
known at Scotland Yard, and you might have
come across the name in boorish murder cases
before now."

'' Of course, of course," exclaimed Mr. Totterdell,
wriggling in his chair, after his custom
when excited about anything. 'pray sit
down, Mr. Usher."

He had been turning over in his mind with
whom he was to disburden himself of the
mighty secret hidden in his breast, and here
was the very man he wanted come to his door.

T have every reason to believe, Mr. Totterdell,
that you can give me some very
important information, and as this murder is
put in my charge, I come to learn all you have
to tell me concerning it."

And you couldn't have come to any one in
Marlborough who can tell you half so much
about it. 1 was an intimate friend of the poor
fellow that's gone, you know, godfather to his
wife and all that sort of things, and though he
behaved very badly and ungratefully to me at
last, I bore him no malice."

What poor John Fossdyke had to be grateful
about was not quite so clear.

Dear me," continued the old impostor, " I
little thought when I slaved so to get up the
Marlborough Theatre that I was, so to speak,
digging John Fossdyke's grave, but that was
his fault ; he never was open with any one.
If he had only been candid, Mr. Usher ; if he
had only been candid — "

Ah ! Mr. Totterdell, then he never mentioned
Foxborough's name to you ? ''

No, nor to any one else, or I must have
heard of it. I hear everything that goes on in
Marlborough."

And you actually sat next this man in

the theatre on Monday night," interposed the
Sergeant rather hurriedly, for he abbacy saw
that the newly-elected town councillor was not
one of those who narrate their story briefly.

That was just what I was going to tell
you," rejoined Mr. Totterdell, testily, " only
you interrupted me. Yes, I sat near the miscreant
at the theatre ; a dark-complexioned
man, dressed in evening clothes, as unlike a
murderer as could be," and the old gentleman
paused, and looked at the Sergeant as much as
to say, '' What do you think of that ? "

Mr. Usher vouchsafed no opinion, his professional
knowledge told him that men of
all classes had taken their fellow's lives at
times.

"Well," continued Mr. Totterdell, "the
villain was very affable. Said he was in the
theatrical line himself. He asked dio two
or three people were, amongst others John
Fossdyke."

Give any reason ? " interposed the Sergeant,

in a curt rat-trap sort of way that made the
old gentleman start.

"Yes, he said he thought he had met him
somewhere, had been at school with him,
perhaps, but he didn't seem to recognize the
name at all. He thought I said Mossdyke,
and when I repeated Fossdyke, asked me to
spell it, which I did. Then he asked me if
Miss Hyde was his daughter, aud I told him
no, that she was one of our great mysteries,
that no one knew exactly who she was. We
don't, you know ; it's very curious that, Mr.
Usher. Marlborough cannot get at who she
is exactly."

And, of course, sir, you had no idea of
w4iat this stranger's name was ? "

Well, I had and I hadn't. It so happens
I am in possession of a singular piece of
evidence, which, though it told nothing then,
is valuable now, as it tells you where to find
James Foxborough."

"James!" exclaimed the Sero^eant. 'you've

got at his Christian name then, Mr. Totter-dell
? "

Yes," exclaimed the old gentleman, with
an asthmatic chuckle, as he got out of his
chair, and went across to the writing-table.
When," he continued, as he opened a drawer,
the stranger got up to leave he pulled a silk
muffler out of his pocket to put round his
throat, and as he did so he dropped this,"
and Mr. Totterdell held up the music-hall
bill he had picked up in the theatre. " Look
at it."

Syringa Music-Hail ! Yes, I know the
place well ; but any one might go there ; this
don't tell us much. Ha ! Lessee, Mr. James
Foxborough. Yes, stupid of me not to remember
it before. I know all about it now.
Wife, handsome woman, sings rather well. I
don't think I ever saw Foxborough. Can't
have done. I never forget any one I've once
seen. You can keep that, Mr. Totterdell, ita
valuable clue, but excuse my observing it's

no evidence. It is open to any one to have a
Syringa bill in his coat-pocket."

The old gentleman gasped with indignation.
He had held that bill to be a most damning
piece of testimony.

'' You see," continued the Sergeant, who
saw what was passing through Mr. Totterdell's
mind, "beyond that it recalled to my mind
that Ladies Foxborough is lessee of the
Syringa, a fact some of our people in town are
sure to have remembered, that bill tells us
nothing. I've no doubt a man calling; himself
Foxborough sat next you in the stalls on
Monday night, and when we apprehend James
Foxborough you will know at a glance whether
that's the man."

"Undoubtedly," returned Mr. Totterdell,
somewhat reviving as it dawned upon him
that after all he was destined to play the rule
of a leading witness.

Well, sir, I don't think I need trespass
any longer on your valuable time. I'm a

candid man myself, Mr. Totterdell, and I have
no doubt that — thanks to the valuable clue
you have placed in my hands — we shall soon
know all about James Foxborough, and whereto
find him when we want him. Good day,
sir."

If his time is valuable he loses a mint of
money per annum," muttered Sergeant Usher,
as he walked away. " Such a long-winded old
chump at telling a story one don't often see,
thank goodness. Now, if this is James Fox-borough
of the Syringa, what on earth could
be his quarrel with Mr. Fossdyke ? That is a
thing has to be got at in some sort. Secondly,
it all looks too plain sailing. Men don't take
rooms at hotels in the country in their own
name, ask their enemy to dinner, murder him,
and return quietly to town by the first train
in the morning ; and yet that's what this
comes to. Outside my experience that is a
long way. No ; it looks so simple that I'd bet
it turns out a complicated case. I suppose I'd

best go out to Dyke tomorrow, if the Doctor
will let me, and ask the ladies two or three
questions, though I don't suppose much will
come of it."

The next morning Sergeant Usher wended
his way to Dr. Inglebyby's, to learn if it was
possible for him to ask those two or three
questions of Mrs. Fossdyke and Miss Hyde
that he was so anxious to put.

I have been out to see them already, and
have arranged that, painful though it be, it
shall be done. But I must manage this business
in my own way. The interview must be
as brief as you can possibly make it. The
questions will have to be put by me, and I
have guaranteed you shall not open your lips,
although you are to be present. They understand
who you are, and that they are answering
my questions for your benefit."

At first Sergeant Usher looked somewhat
disappointed, then brightening up a bit, said,
It won't take five minutes, Doctor. There

are only three questions, but I want as distinct
answers to them as possible, please. I had
better write them down."

^' Do, while I order the trap. There are
writing: things."

A few minutes later and Dr. Inglebyby and
the Sergeant were driving towards Dyke. On
their arrival they were at once shown into the
drawing-room, where the two ladies were
waiting to receive them. They welcomed Dr.
Inglebyby with a faint smile, and acknowledged
Sergeant Usher's bow with a slight bend of
the head.

"My dear Mrs. Fossdyke, we shan't worry
you for more than a few minutes, but in the
interests of justice I am going to ask you three
questions. First, did you ever see this fanciful
toy before ? " and he exhibited the weapon that
had bereft John Fossdyke of life.

A decided negative from both ladies.

'* Secondly, did your husband to your knowledge
know anything of a Mr. Foxborough ? "

I never heard of such a person," replied
Mrs. Fossdyke, briefly.

I never knew a Mr. Foxborough," faltered
Miss Hyde, with visible emotion.

*' Lastly, are you aware what induced
your husband to go over to Bunbury on
Tuesday ? "

"Certainly," replied Mrs. Fossdyke, "he
went in consequence of a letter which he
received by the morning post, and by which
he was evidently much put out. We both
noticed it, Bessie, did we not ? "

Miss Hyde bent her head in token of assent.

So much so," continued Mrs. Fossdyke,
that I asked him if he was ill, and afterwards
urged him not to stay the night at Bunbury,
but come home to dinner. Oh, why, why did
he not follow my advice ? " and the good
lady's tears flowed afresh.

"There, there, my dear friend," said the
Doctor, soothingly, " we need trouble you no
more. Good-bye for the present — good-bye.

Miss Hyde. T shall be up again in the
evening."

Sergeant Usher had already glided noiselessly
out of the room in accordance with his
covenant.

Well," said the Doctor, as he joined him
in the hall, " I trust you have learnt all you
want to know."

Not quite," rejoined Serjeant Usher. " I
want to know when Miss Hyde heard of Mr.
Foxborough."

"Why, she said she never had."

Excuse me, she said she had never seen
him, and I believe her ; but from the way
she said it I have a strong idea she's heard

o

of him."

That idea never would have entered my
head."

*' I dare say not, Doctor. You're not accustomed
to weigh people's words as I am,"
replied Serjeant Usher, as they got into the
trap.

VOL. II. D

*' Were you satisfied with the result of your
questions 1 " asked Doctor Inglebyby, after a
few moments, during which his companion
seemed plunged in a brown study.

I'd give a hundred pounds for that letter,"
quoth Sergeant Usher, moodily.

CHAPTER II.

CLUB GOSSIP.

Herbert Morantt, with this things neatly
packed, including that variable clock with
an alarum, is casting a cursory eye round his
rooms to make sure that nothings is forgotten,
when there is a tap at the door, followed by
the entrance of Mrs. marriott with a telegram.
It was from Phil Soames, and ran as
follows : — " Sorry to put you oiF, but cannot
receive you at present ; particulars by post."
Mr. Morantt read the telegram attentively,
and then observed in a moralizing mood,
*' This is in accordance with the ordering of
things by a perverse providence. No sooner
do I plant the ladder that tends to fortune

D 2

and turn to collect my effects than the
malignant fairy whose glass the butler
neglected to fill on the occasion of the
festival of my christening, cuts up rough and
kicks it down. Phil Soames," continued the
ever sanguine Morantt, '' told me the ball was
at my foot ; they always do tell you that,
but what's the use when you're not o-ood
at the game, and don't understand a drop-kick.
But old Phil, I know him so well,
he'd have kicked off the ball, and I should
have nothing to do but to run after it.
Well, there's nothing for it but to await
the arrival of the post, and in the meantime
man must dine, and in the case of a
fellow holding my ' high-resolve,' improve
his mind afterwards, but whether that shall
be done by the pursuit of whist, billiards,
or dramatic representation accident must
determine."

The next morning brought Mr. Morantt a
letter from Soames. It was as follows : — •

Dear Herbert, — I am sorry to put you
off, but the sad tragedy that has befallen
Marlborough must be my excuse. It has
cast a temporary gloom over the whole town,
and many of us who knew and loved John
Fossdyke feel it deeply. I have known him
for the last fourteen years, from a boy, in
short. He was a great friend of all my
family, and we were inexpressively grieved
when the news came of his sad fate. As
soon as we have a little got over the shock
you must come as arranged. For the present
adieu.

Ever yours,

'philip Soames."

"Pes. — The papers will give you all the
details of the Bunbury murder, and spare me
the pain of relating them."

To say that Mr. Important sat up in bed
after reading this epistle would faintly
characterize that young gentleman's movements.
He bounced out of bed and dashed

into bis sittings-room in search of the morning:
paper. A great murder always exercises a
curious fascination wpou the public, and that
fascination is increased \Yhen we are connected,
however faintly, with the crime. Mr.
Morantt's intimate friend on this occasion had
been an intimate friend of the murdered man.
But Herbert Morantt is destined to find himself
more intimately connected with the crime
than that ; another minute and the columns of
the Standard will disclose to him that the
supposed murderer is the father of the girl
lie wishes to marry.

Morantt tore the paper open, glanced his
eye rapidly over its pages, and for a little
failed to discover what he sought.

Ha ! here it is," he exclaimed, as
Mysterious Murder at Bunbury " met his
gaze, and he proceeded to peruse the account
with no little interest. The murder had taken
place on the Tuesday night presumably,
though it was not till Wednesday afternoon

that it had been discovered. It was now
Friday morning, so the papers by this had
obtained very detailed accounts of the crime,
and the writer for the Standard had told his
story in very dramatic fashion. But when
after reading all the preliminaries with which
we are already acquainted, Morantt came to
this pithy line, " On the Tuesday the friend
of No. 11 appeared in the person of
John Fossdyke, a gentleman well-known in
Bunbury, and asked for Mr. Foxborough,"
he dropped the paper with a cry of horror ;
then he took heart. Foxborouorh might not
be a common name, but there were doubtless
more Foxboroughs than one in the world.
He picked the jasper up and read on : the
particulars of the murder were told clearly
and faithfully ; but the last paragraph bore a
later date than the remainder of the report,
and had evidently been transmitted by telegraph.
" T have just heard that evidence has
been discovered this day in Marlborough

which would appear to indicate that Mr.
James Foxborough, the well-known lessee of
the Syringa Music Hall, is the Mr. Foxborough
who was staying at the Hoping."

Once more he dropped the paper, and
remained staring into vacancy. Was it
possible that the man he knew, Nid's father,
could have risen in the night and deliberately
slain his guest ? It was too horrible. A
more deliberate murder, apparently, had
never been committed, and whatever the
motive might have been, it was as yet perfectly
unfathomable. Not the slightest suggestion
was made by the correspondent of
the paper as to the cause of the crime, and
the more he thought of it the more bewildered
Herbert Morantt became. He read that
account over and over again in the intervals
of dressing ; the ghastly story had a weird
fascination for him. He felt already growing
upon him that morbid feeling, which makes
all other things seem tame in comparison with

the solution of a mystery of this kind. There
are always a small proportion of imaginative
people who are held spell-bound by the contemplation
of a great crime. For the time
beiijg they think of nothing else, they read
all the papers for fear the slightest detail
should escape them, they build ingenious
theories concerning the affair with more or
less cleverness in proportion to their reasoning
capabilities, and the proportion of educated
people who understand what is actually
evidence is surprisingly small.

His breakfast finished, Herbert Morantt
went down to his club. He wanted to see
what the other papers might have to say
about it ; to hear what mankind were saying
about this Bunbury murder. The papers
varied little in their accounts, some of course
were rather more meagre than others, but the
leading journals were all pretty much in
accordance with the story he had at first
read. With humanity it was different. Not

only liaci men much to say and said it, but
they improvised knowledge and enumerated
theories which made poor Herbert stand
aghast.

'* Good Lord, sir, there's not much to be
astonished at," said old Sir Carbury Pye, a
wicked old man, who had been about town
for half a century or thereabouts. *' Know
all about that fellow Foxborou2fh, real name
Ikey Solomon, begun life in the prize ring,
in the last days of that noble institution,
clever light-weight, but couldn't be trusted,
more often on the cross than the square.
When that pillar of the constitution, the P. E.,
came to an end, Ikey started a silver hell at
the East-end, got on, and went round the
races, Brighton, Doncaster, you know, a little
chicken hot, as well as cold chicken for supper;
found that game rather drying up, so went
into the music-hall line, and started the
Syringa. Good little chap, Ikey, don't know
whether he stuck the other fellow, not proved

yet anyhow, but don't suppose Ikey would
stick at murder, as a matter of business, anymore
than he would at crossing a fight or
queering a flat : " the whole of which farrago
was listened to and accepted by some of the
younger members of "the Theatine " with
much reverence and interest. Sir Carbury
having no more knowledge of James Fox-borough
than he had of the Emperor of
China.

Never read a more conclusive case in my
life," grunted old Major Borrobosh ; "poor
fellow didn't want watch or money, of course.
Papers of some kind; deeds very likely.
What did they quarrel about ? Something
of that sort, of course — this fellow Fossdyke,
you see, wouldn't give 'em up. Foxborough
goes at night to steal 'em, means having 'em
somehow — the other fellow wakes. Fox-borough
gives him a dig in the ribs with
his dagger, bones the papers, locks the door,
and slopes next morning, plain as a pikestaff.

What soy, hey ? Premeditated, hey ? No,

no, not premeditated "

"Look here, you fellows needn't 2fo bellowing
it about, you know," said Lacquers, " but
I heard all about it from a fellow \Yho has
got a friend who corresponds with a chap
down at Baumboroucvh. The fellow Fox



borough had a daughter who went as nursery
governess to John Fossdyke. Fossdyke
brought her to grief, and her father killed
Fossdyke out of revenge. That's the real
story of the affair."

Pleasant all this for poor Herbert Morantt,
whose chivalrous disposition led him strongly
to stand up for his new friends, but he hadn't
knocked about London the last half-dozen
years without acquiring some knowledge of
the world, and that warned him the confronting
of the club gossip was like tilting at
windmills in these days. Even in the old
duelling days, and credited with yielding a
deadly pistol, to curb the tongues of one of

our great monacbal caravansaries was hopeless.
To attempt it in these times would be
ridiculous. Then the young man could but
acknowledge to himself that he knew next
to nothing of Foxborougli. Of Mrs. Fox-borough
and Nid, yes, that was different ;
but Herbert was aware that consummate
scoundrels before now have been blessed with
charming; feminine belonmno^s. He felt very
miserable as he walked out of the Theatine ;
true, he believed very little of all these rumours
he had heard, but there was no getting away
from the fact that James Foxborough stood
in imminent danger of being charged with
murder, and, guilty or not guilty, that must
occasion infinite agony to the girl he loved
and her mother, and Herbert was very fond
of Mrs. Foxborouo'h as well as Nid, although
not quite in the same proportion. At last
it occurred to Herbert he would walk out to
Tapton Cottage, and inquire after its inmates
if possible, see them. It would show, at

all events, both his sympathy and disbelief
in the charge, and having come to this resolution
he stepped out manfully, and without
further vacillation, in the direction of Eegent's
Park.

That the papers should so soon have got
at the connection between James Foxborough
and the Syringa was due chiefly to Mr. Totter-dell.
That garrulous old gentleman, having
once parted with his hardly-kept secret,
thought it was as well to derive as much
enjoyment as possible from it, and to that
end confidentially showed the music-hall bill,
and confided the story of how he came by
it to every friend or acquaintance he came
across. To Mr. Totterdell Marlborough owed
the knowledge that the eminent Sergeant
Usher had spent a day in their midst, and
according to Mr. Totterdell, the Sergeant
had admitted that but for bis assistance he
Avould not yet have been on the track of
the murderer.

As he neared Tapton Cottage, Herbert
Morantt's feet imperceptibly lagged. It was
not that he faltered for one moment in
his purpose, he longed to express his deep
sympathy with them in their anguish, his
utter disbelief in Mr. Foxboroudi beinor
capable of the atrocious crime ascribed to
him ; but what was he to say to these stricken
women. Words are so weak, and come so
unreadily to our lips on these occasions of
bitter sorrow, especially, perhaps, to men.
However, if his pace had slackened, Morantt
had still held steadily on, and consequently
was now within a few yards of the cottage.
Suddenly his eye fell mechanically upon a
shabbily-dressed man, who vx^as lounging slowly
alone' on the other side of the road, at a
pace that implied, at all events, time was no
object to him. Morantt took little notice of
him ; the man had merely attracted his gaze,
not caught his attention, and all street-strollers,
or, as the French would term thQin,fla/?ei(?'s,

know what that distinction is. With a nervous
hand Mo rant knocked, and the answering
damsel he noticed was not the paHour-maid
who usually officiated in that respect. She
was a servant he knew though, well enough,
being Mrs. Foxborough's own maid ; and in
answer to his inquiry she replied that
her mistress was at home, but saw no one.
The o-irl's face was o-rave enough, and she
seemed to think there was no more to be
said.

But, Jenny," pleaded Morantt, " I think
she would see me ; at all events, take my
name in, like a good girl ; " and mindful of
sundry douceurs that had fallen to her lot
since Mr. Morantt had become a visitor at
Tapton Cottage, she thought, well perhaps
missis might make an exception in his favour ;
at all events, if he would wait she would go
and see.

After some delay, Jenny returned with the
information that Mrs. Foxborough would see

Mr. Morantt, and marshalled him to the drawn
o^-room forthwith.

Mrs. FoxboroiTQrh came forward to greet him
with head erect, and a dignity of manner he
had never seen in her before.

'* You have heard of course, Mr. Morantt,"
she said, extending her hand, " of the shame
that has come upon us. Shame ! What
am I saying ! Scandalous, scurrilous accusation,
that will bring more shame upon
those that make it. But you have heard
the infamous charge launched at my husband ?
This it is to live in a free country, and enjoy
the benefits of civilization ; where a ribald
press can even state such slander as this
without fear of pains and penalties."

"Mrs. Foxborough, I only heard of this
terrible charge this mornings, and have come
out at once to assure you of my utter disbelief
in it, and to ask if there is any possible
use I can be to you "

Ah ! I thought you would stand by us,

VOL, II. B

Mr. Morantt," she replied, in slightly softened
tones. "You have met my dear husband,
and know that he was incapable of wilfully
injuring any human being, much more of
such a crime as this "

*' It is impossible, of course ; but where is
he ? Does he know of the horrible allegation
against him. Surely he ought to be informed
of it at once — to come forward and confute
it at once," replied Morantt, hurriedly. " I
don't go by what the papers say, but surely
if he did ask this Mr. Fossdyke to dine with
him at the Hoping, he had best come forward
and tell his plain story of the business."

I never heard him mention the name of
Fossdyke in my life," replied Mrs. Foxborough
as she sank into a chair.

"Then it is very possible that he is not
the Mr. Foxborough who stayed at the
Hoping. Have you written to him ? "

No, I cannot. I don't know exactly
where he is. We never correspond much

when he is away. The last letter I had from
him was from a place called Slackford."

Great heavens ! Why, that is no great
distance from Bunbury."

Indeed ! But what has that to do with
it ? " retorted Mrs. Foxborough, rearing her
head proudly.

I don't know ; nothing, I suppose," rejoined
Herbert, no little discomposed.

No ; it is perhaps a little unfortunate that
I do not know his address, but it can matter
very little. The papers must ere this have told
him of the infamy they have dared to lay
to his door, and I am expecting a telegram
every moment to say that he is at Bunbury."

"Ah, that would be most satisfactory. How
does Nid bear it ? "

*' Well, poor child, it was impossible to keep
it from her, or else I would have done ; but
I reflected she was sure to learn it in the
course of two or three days, and thought she'd
best hear it from me. Indeed, it was quite

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF lUINOIS

a chance she did not see it in the paper before
I did. She's terribly knocked down. There
is very little of the Woman maiden about
Nid, I fear," said Mrs. Foxborongh, with a
faint smile.

May I see her ? "

No, I think not to-day. My doors are
closed to every one, but I mean to make an
exception in your favour, Mr. Morantt. You
have offered to serve me. I wonder whether
you will undertake the first thing I ask you
to do for me."

Certainly, Mrs. Foxborough," exclaimed
the young man eagerly.

Well, listen. The inquest commenced today,
and will I am told extend over tomorrow.
Will you go down and bring me a faithful
account of the proceedings ? " and even proud
and plucky ]airs. Foxborough's lips trembled
a little as she spoke.

*' They have summoned Ellen. You saw
she did not open the door for you. AVhat

they can want with her I have no idea. And
more, Mr. Mo rant, we are a marked, house.
We are under surveillance. A spy lurks
opposite our gate night and day to watch
who comes and goes. You may not have
noticed him, but he was there, and it is quite
possible that you also may find yourself
dogged on account of your visit here."

It'll perhaps be bad for the dogger if I
do," replied Morantt, with no little savage
elation at the idea of taking it out of some one.
I will do your errand willingly, Mrs. Fox-borough,
and be off to Bunbury by to-night's
train. I even thank you for trusting me with
it, not so much as a mark of your friendship
as for the relief it is that I am doing something
to aid you in this terrible trial. Give
my love to Nid, and now I'll wish you goodbye,
trusting to bring you back good news
from Bunbury tomorrow night." As Herbert
Morantt left the cottage he became conscious
of that same lounging individual upon whom

his eye had before mechanically rested, now
apparently leisurely pursuing his way towards
the West-end, and at once awoke to the fact
that this man was keeping watch and ward
over Mrs. Foxborough's house. At first he
thought the man's intention was to follow
him, and Morantt only waited to convince
himself of this, to turn pretty fiercely upon
his attendant, but ere they had gone three
hundred yards, the shabbily-dressed one turned
back again, and it was clear that watching
Tapton Cottage was his sole business.

As Herbert Morantt walked home, he
could not but reflect that the accumulation
of evidence against Mr. Foxborou^h certainly
was awkward. That he should be in
the neighbourhood of Bunbury, as confessedly
by his wife he was at the time of the murder,
that somebody of his name should have invited
the unfortunate Fossdyke to dinner at
the Hoping, and that he, Foxborough, was
still not to be heard of, constituted an unfortunate

concatenation of facts that might
suffice to cast suspicion upon any one so
circumstanced. Of course, he would see the
papers, and then naturally would appear at the
inquest and give an account of himself, and
there would be an end of the whole business
as far as he was concerned. But Morantt
could not help reflecting gravely, how very
easy it may be for a man to fall under the
shadow of crime, when circumstances could
so array themselves against one as they had
against James Foxborou^h.

CHAPTER III.

"murder on the mind."

Very curious are the ripples cast upon
life's stream by a great crime ; as the circles
thrown upon the stream by the sudden plunge
of the big stone you have thrown in widen
and get gradually fainter, so does the 
life, especially if one amongst
the middle or higher classes, move men more
or less as their connection with the deadman
was small or great ; whether they move
in the more immediate radius or the outer
circles of the sped man's existence, so are
they affected by his untimely end.

Philip Soames was within the inner radius,
and so much affected by the Bunbury murder

as to be quite incapable of paying ordinary
attention to business. The dead man and his
wife bad not only, as before said, been very
dear friends of his family for a long while,
but he had taken it into his head to connect
Bessie's secret somehow with the catastrophe.
What connection the two could have even
Phil could hazard no opinion about ; but he
could not forget the expression that escaped
her when he broke the murder of John Foss-dyke
to her. " It* only wanted this," she
had murmured, half unconsciously. Also she
had asked him at the theatre if Mr. Fossdyke
had said anything about her to him. He
utterly discredited the scandalous tattle which
Mr. Totterdell had circulated concerning ^Fiss
Hyde in Marlborough, and it was well for
that familiar old gentleman that he was as
old as inquisitive, or else it was quite likely
he might have met rough chastisement at
Phil's hands ; but he had come to the conclusion
that Mr. Fossdyke knew something

of Miss Hyde previous to her appearance in
Marlborough, something more a good deal
than Bessie had acknowledged to. Looking
back coolly over the past, Philip called to
mind that Miss Hyde had undoubtedly made
her deut among them as Mrs. Fossdyke's
companion ; that her brightness, good looks,
and the Away the Fossdykes treated her, had
made people forget this, and gradually suppose
her a relation. He further remembered,
that neither Mr. nor Mrs. Fossdyke had ever
endorsed this assumption. He was firmly
convinced, as men are at times, that with the
investigation of this murder would also be
disclosed this secret of Bessie's which so
distressed her, and which he verily believed
to be a mere bugbear ; that there was something
about the girl's relatives or antecedents
to which she attached a disgrace, in all probability
much over-estimated, he thought
probable ; but that any disgrace attached to
Bessie on her own account he would have

scorned to believe. The consequence was
that Phil Soames listened to every scrap of
gossip, and read the different versions of the
event in the papers \yith feverish interest.

And the reading, although this was in the
first forty-eight hours since the discovery of
the crime, already waxed considerable ; this
was a murder that had attracted the papers,
and had also excited the public. The local
position of the murdered man, the status of
the supposed murderer; and, moreover, the
extraordinary audacity of the affair, if Mr.
Foxborough really was the murderer. To ask
an excessively well-known man to dine at a
first-class hotel, stab him during the nighttime,
pay the bill, and quietly depart by the
first train in the morning, was a cynicism of
crime that made people shiver. Under such
circumstances what life was safe. Another
thing which still more inflamed public curiosity
concerning the business was that, despite
the usual stereotyped phrase 'that the police

are understood to be in possession of a clue
to the whereabouts of the supposed criminal,"
it was quite patent that they had as yet
laid no hand upon him, and some outspoken
sceptical journals, which maintained their footing
chiefly by taking up bold and rather
startling views about most things, did not
hesitate to avow that they had failed to
discover the slightest trace of him. Be that
as it might, it was quite clear that Mr. Fox-borough
had not as yet come to the front,
loudly protesting his innocence, as might be
looked for in an innocent man.

It was true there were a far smaller but
more logical section of the public who agreed
it looked very much more like suicide than
murder; only to meet with the vehement
retort from their excited fellows : '' If it's
not murder, where is Foxborough ? Why
doesn't he come forward and tell his story
like a man ? " To which the logical minority
contending for suicide retorted, of course, he

would come forward at the proper time, which
would be at the inquest.

These last arguments 2'^ro and con were in
men's mouths and not in the papers, not
but what plenty of rhetoricians would have
been glad to see them there had time or
editors permitted.

Another atom of humanity, who, although
he has never seen John Fossdyke, yet finds
himself involved in the swirl occasioned by
his tumultuous plunge into the waters of
Lethe, is Mr. Sturton, the eminent Bond
Street tailor. He, it may be remembered,
assisted Mr. Cudemore to provide money for
the presumed murderer's necessities on the
security of the Syringa Music-hall. It is
no anxiety about his money, it is the curious
fascination cast over people by an extraordinary
murder, intensified tenfold if connected
indirectly even with one of the actors
in the tragedy. Mr. Sturton almost felt
compelled to apologize for taking interest

in such a plebeian murder; grand democrat
though he was, and useless as in his speech
he professed the House of Peers to be, in
his heart he grovelled at a coronet. And
yet these objects of his reverence tried him
hard at times. One of his noble customers
only lately in ordering a suit of clothes
had expressed his approbation of a certain
material.

You'll find it charming, my lord," said
Mr. Sturtou. '' I can answer for it, because
I have tried it myself."

^'Youl" replied the ruthless young Baron.
You have ! damme, show me something
else ; you don't suppose I want to dress like
my tailor, do you ? "

Candour compels me to add that that young
nobleman would have been infinitely better
dressed if he had. But Mr. Sturton was
more impressed that night than ever with
the necessity of disestablishing the House of
Lords. Still he also has caught the epidemic,

the fascination of crime, and hurries down
to Bunbury to be present at the inquest.

All Marlborough and Bunbury have caught
the infection and talk of nothing else, every
rumour is listened to with feverish impatience,
the railway bookstall is stripped of the evening
papers in less than half an hour, and
the proprietor writes for a double supply for
the morrow. All London trains are waylaid
as they pass through to know if they bring
any news about the murder, and the question
on all men's lips in those parts is, " Have
they taken Foxborough ? " Still though the
papers all concur in representing him as
unheard of so far, whatever information the
police may have they keep strictly to themselves.
Mr. Totterdell, as might be supposed,
is a sight to behold ; he haunts the station
and buys papers with utter recklessness ; he
reads them, he recapitulates every rumour,
and he pretends to be in possession of the
most astounding information if he were only

permitted to divulge it. He writes letter
after letter of suggestions to Sergeant Usher
at Scotland Yard, and is no whit discouraged
at getting no replies. I am afraid at this
time he might have been not inaptly described
as oroing: about with his mouth full of lies and
his pockets full of halfpence ; these latter for
the purchase of journals.

The first day of the inquest is over, and,
as was generally understood, only the preliminaries
were got through, such as viewing
the body, the identification of the deceased,
&c. ; the real interest was to centre on the
second day's proceedings, when some important
evidence would be probably produced, and all
Marlborough had made up its mind to be
present. Another person too who took an
absorbing interest in the proceedings, as may
well be supposed, was Dr. Inglebyby. He had
been one of the deceased's most intimate
friends, and was the first to become acquainted
with the tragic death that had

befallen him. It was only natural that he
should be influenced by the weird fascination
of this mysterious crime, for, granting it was
conclusively proved that James Foxborough
was the criminal, where had the two men
met, and what deadly quarrel was there between
them to provoke Foxborough to commit
such a cold-blooded murder ? Another thing,
too, calculated to excite any person's curiosity
was a short conversation he (the Doctor) had
held with Sergeant Usher on their return from
Dyke.

Now, Dr. Inglebyby," said the detective,
"I am not going beating about the bush
with you. I'm naturally a candid man."

The Doctor's eye twinkled.

Well," continued Sergeant Usher, with a
chuckle quite as candid as is good for people,
but you can keep your mouth shut, and I
can't do without your help. First, I want
to ask you a question. Did you ever hear
a rumour of Mr. Fossdyke having an intrigue

VOL. II. - F

with any woman either before or since his
marriage ? "

Certainly not ! Why ? "

"You see this murder looks uncommon like
a piece of hitter revenge. What do you
know about Miss Hyde, sir ? I heard in the
town there was a mystery about her ? "

*' She came here as Mrs. Fossdyke's companion,
and I don't believe there is any
mystery about her at all. That old fool
Totterdell set that story afloat, simply because
the girl declined to recite her biography to
him."

Now, Doctor, I want you to move the
ladies at Dyke to search high and low for
that letter."

'' The letter which took poor Fossdyke to
Bunbury ? "

*' Just so. I have an idea that letter might
change the whole aspect of the case. I take
it Mr. Fossdyke knew the writing and the
writer, and if the handwriting is that of

James Foxborougli it will begin to look excessively
awkward for that gentleman. If he
is innocent, he will most likely give himself
up after the inquest, and in any case we shall
hear of him in two or three days, I fancy ;
but, mark me. Doctor Inglebyby, if by any
chance it should turn out that James Fox-borough
is not guilty, then the murderer is
a real artist, and has left a blind track and
not a trace of his own footsteps. He will
be difficult to lay hold of. Good-bye, sir,
for the present. I may see you at the inquest
perhaps," and so saying, Sergeant Usher took
his departure.

P 2

CHAPTER IV.

THE INQUEST.

There was a bustle in the streets of Bun-bury,
such as might betoken a market day,
and yet it was neither the buying nor the
selling of corn or vegetables, neither the clavering
for fruit nor poultry, that had thronged
Bunbury on this occasion. To learn how a
man came by his end was the matter that
brought most people into the town this bright
autumn morning. The people surged about
the railway station, eddied about the streets,
but sooner or later flowed up the hill and
gravitated towards the Hoping, where the
inquest was being held. Getting into the
room had been hopeless half an hour after the

coroner had taken this seat, but we all know
how persistently a crowd will hang about locked
doors with some indefinite idea of seeing or
learning: something;. Old Joe Marlinson sits
in the bar-parlour almost speechless with
indignation. A crowd permeate the Hoping,
whom ]mr. Marlinson in his wrath designates
as "scum"; they order spirits and water in
jocund and plentiful fashion, laugh at the head-waiter's
remonstrance anent their smoking in
the coffee-room, and not only smoke there, but
about all the lower part of the hotel generally :
they lunch freely, and seem to look upon the
whole elinor in the lio;ht of "a bean feast " or
some such festivity, instead of the investigation
of a presumed murder.

Old Marlinson is in a state of mind bordering
on distraction. He devoutly trusts James
Foxborough will be captured and endure the
extreme penalty of the law ; not so much for
the crime he is supposed to have committed,
but for his disgusting presumption in having

selected the Hoping in wliicli to accomplish
his purpose. The old man has appealed to
Inspector Thresher to clear the house, and
given a confused opinion in support of his
application that they were all drunk and
disorderly, and that he wanted no riff-raff at
the Hoping. In vain did the Inspector
laughingly observe, if they weren't all county
families, they were a good-humoured, orderly
crowd enough, that there was a certain
amount of license allowable on these occasions,
that the Hoping was, after all, a house of call,
and could not refuse to serve guests in canonical
hours, and that it was right good for
trade.

House of call," gasped old Marlinson,
'^ well I'm dashed ! — the] Hoping a house of
call just like any hedge alehouse, — well Tm

d d. Clear the house. Thresher, clear the

house," and he continued at intervals to call
upon the good-natured Inspector to '' clear the
house " with the same obstinate incongruity

as " Mrs. F.'s aunt " demanded Arthur Clennam's
ejection through the window.

The big room up stairs in which the inquest
was sitting was as full as it was allowed to
be, for the coroner had long ago given
stringent orders against further admission
thereto. The preliminaries had been got
over as narrated in the last chapter the day
before, and the medical testimony had been
then taken. Both Drs. Duncome and Inglebyby
were clear and consistent in their testimony
that John Fossdyke met his death from the
dagger-wound in his chest, they had neither
of them the slightest doubt the blade had
pierced the heart, and death must have been
almost instantaneous ; that it was possible
the wound was self-inflicted they both concurred,
but about its probability they differed.
Dr. Duncome gave his opinion that it was
probable Mr. Fossdyke had himself dealt the
blow that killed him. Dr. Inglebyby, on the
contrary, while not denying that it was

quite possible it was so, pointed out that in
the case of a man stabbing himself the wound
would usually have a downward direction, as
it would be natural to him to deal the blow
overhand. In this case the wound ran slightly
upwards, as a man might deliver it with a
foil or in a duel with swords. To him it
appeared that the wound was the result of
a lunge rather than a stab. He did not
deny that it might have been self-inflicted,
but he considered that it was improbable.
Dr. Inglebyby's testimony had of course thrown
a strong suspicion of " wilful murder " around
the case, and the excitement concerning the
second day's inquiry was very great. It was
rumoured, as it so often is rumoured under
these circumstances, that startling disclosures
would be made in the course of the day, that
some extremely trenchant evidence would become
by, that a lady had been brought down
from London dio could throw most important
light upon the case, &c. It was quite clear

that this second day of the inquiry would be
of much interest.

Phil Soames, with face grave and stern, is
there in company with Doctor Inglebyby, to
see what the result of the day may be.
Hardly has the former taken his seat when
he feels a hand upon his shoulder, and a
voice familiar in days gone by, exclaim —
How are you, Phil ? " He turns, and
recognizing Morantt, wrings his hand heartily
as he asks, *' Good heavens, Herbert, wdiat
brought you here ? "

It's odd. Phi], very," replies the latter
quietly, as he sat down beside his old
university chum, " but I have as deep an
interest in this case as you. If the murdered
man was a dear friend of yours, the supposed
murderer is a friend of mine. I don't know
so very much about him, but with his wife
and daughter I am very intimate, and you
may easily imagine the terrible state of
mind they are in about the whole business.

I no more believe Foxborough capable of such
a crime that I do you : that appearances
look horribly against him I'll admit, but I
fully expect to see him turn up to-day and
explain everything."

"I trust he may," replied Soames ; "but
Thresher, the head of the police here, gave me
to understand just now, that the accumulated
evidence against Foxborough is terribly strong.
It is a mysterious case, and at present incomprehensible.
My own idea is that some old
quarrel existed between the pair, and also
some money transactions which has been the
reason of their meeting, that the old feud was
renewed, and maddened by wine and probably
having had the worst of the altercation with
poor Fossdyke, in a moment of passion
Foxborough slew him."

Good heavens, Phil, according to what
I have read the man was stabbed in his
sleep ! "

That that was not the case, my friend Dr.

Inglebyby can vouch for. Allow me to introduce
you.

The two gentlemen bowed.

"No," said Dr. Inglebyby, "poor Fossdyke
was not murdered in his sleep ; he was out
of bed and in his shirt and trousers, and,
moreover, the bed had never been slept in.
My theory, Mr. Morantt, is that he was killed
in the sitting-room adjoining, and carried to
the bed-room after he was dead ; but we shall
hear what Inspector Thresher has got to
bring before us to-day."

"You are conclusive. Dr. Inglebyby, as to
its being murder then, and not a case of
suicide ? " said Morantt.

Yes, I am, and I have told you my theory
of the whole crime ; but please remember that
though I can set forth arguments against its
being self-murder, and though the evidence
will show you clearly that Fossdyke was never
slain in his bed, yet I am bound to say my
idea that he was killed in the sitting-room

is utterly unwarranted by any evidence as yet
produced."

And now the Coroner re-opens the inquiry,
and the jury shuffle into their places. A well-known
solicitor of much experience in criminal
cases has been sent down to watch the case
for the Crown, and the first witness on the
day's list is Eliza Salter, the chambermaid.
She recapitulates the evidence she has already
given as to her unavailing attempts to rouse
Mr. Fossdyke, how as the day wore on she
gently turned the door-handle with a view of
peeping into the room, thinking something
mihi have befallen him, and found the door
locked ; then she called her master, and after
once more knocking very loudly, William
Gibbons, the boots, by Mr. Martin son's orders,
broke the door open, and they found the
deceased gentleman lying on the floor with a
curious dagger planted in his breast. The writ-unstable
in the room and the chair were upset ;
the bed had evidently not been occupied.

Mr. Trail, the gentleman watching the case
on behalf of the Crown, obtained permission
from the Coroner to put a few questions to the
witness, and elicited the following facts : — •
Mr. Fossdyke was attired in his shirt and
trousers, yes, and boots ; lie had dressed for
dinner, and when discovered had his neckcloth
on also. He had taken ois nothing but
his coat. The waistcoat had certainly not
been pierced by the dagger, but it was a low-cut
dress waistcoat, and the stab was dealt
outside it, nearly in the centre of the chest.
The key was not in the lock, nor had they
been able to find it as yet, though the room
had been searched closely.

Mr. Trail bad enjoyed a quarter of an hour's
conversation with Serjeant Usher, who had
suggested the points that in his opinion
required clearing up.

Mr. Marlinson followed and gave corroborative
evidence to Eliza Salter, the chambermaid.
Further questioned by Mr. Trail, he said that

every bed-room in the Hoping had a key to it
invariably kept in the inside of the door. Mr.
Fossdyke's room being locked was conclusive
evidence that the key had been in the lock as
it should be, but what had become of the key
he could not say. Inspector Thresher had
given him to understand that the discovery
of this key was a matter of importance.
Couldn't see it mattered much himself, but all
the same he had given orders it was to be
found if possible. Search high, search low,
they could find nothing of that key. Here the
witness expressed himself in an excited and
somewhat incoherent speech to the effect that
this was a pretty thing to happen in a first-class
hotel, that some people ought to feel
ashamed of themselves, winding up with
a request to the Coroner to clear the
house ; after which he was led gently
away by Inspector Thresher, murmuring
repeated blessings upon the assembly generally,
and spent the remainder of the afternoon

in confidentially cursing and tasting
the liqueurs at the back of the bar-parlour.
Dr. Inglebyby had not failed to notice that
though Inspector Thresher, of the Bunbury
police, apparently controlled the production
of evidence, he now and again referred to a
quiet little grey man, who seemed almost to
deprecate being noticed at all, and whom
probably few other people regarded, much less
recognized as Sergeant Usher.

The next witness was William Gibbons, the
boots. William proved what is termed rather
a flippant witness. He had in his humble
way that misty idea that accident had given
him that opportunity of distinguishing himself
which was permeating the brain of Mr. Totter-dell.
William Gibbons had little doubt in his
own mind that the whole key to the mystery
lay with him, and that when his testimony
had been taken there would be merely the
trifling addenda of arresting and hano^ino; Fox-borough
to follow. He deposed how he had

called Mr. Foxborougli on Wednesday, the
4th of September, about seven o'clock. Mr.
Foxborougli had arrived at the Hoping on
Saturday, August 31st, had gone over to
Gainsborough on Monday, September 2nd,
had received Mr. Fossdyke to dinner on
Tuesday the 3rd, and left on the following
day. He called Mr. Foxborougli at the time
mentioned by his own order, as he wished to
catoii the 8.30 train for town, which was a
through train, and stopped nowhere between
Bunbury and London. He saw Mr. Fox-borough
off by that train, and put his portmanteau
into the carriage with him. In the
afternoon he was called by his master to
break open Mr. Fossdyke's door, had heard
from Eliza Salter previously how late that
gentleman was sleeping ; how she could get
no answer to her knocks, and how she went sofar
as to say she thought " something must
have happened to him, a fit or such like,"
continued the witness, '' w^hicli it had ; when

we got the door open the poor gentleman was
lying on his back with a fanciful dagger
buried in his chest, that was the fit he had,
poor soul, and it's my opinion, gentlemen, that
a more slimy, cold-blooded viper — "

Mr. Gibbons was sharply pulled up by the
Coroner, who informed him they should not
require his opinion, simply his account of
what he had seen, and that he appeared to
have already narrated all he knew from
personal observation.

Further questioned by Mr. Trail, William
Gibbons said they had none of them known
Mr. Foxborough's name until mr. Fossdyke
had asked for him by it. He had himself
thought there was something suspicious in a
guest keeping his name dark. In all his
experience, and as —

Here once more the Coroner ruthlessly
interposed, and curtly informed Mr. Gibbons
they required neither his thoughts nor the
results of his experience, and that unless Mr,

VOL. II. G

Trail had any further question to ask him lie
might retire.

Mr. Trail having declined to attempt the
extraction of further evidence from the redoubtable
William, that worthy withdrew
murmuring, " If this was the way these here
murders was sifted, if the opinions of sensible
men who had, so to speak, been in a way
almost in it, weren't to be thought of any
account, how did any crowners or juries or
blessed peelers think they was going to get at
the rights of things ? "

I wouldn't for the world, Phil, say a word
against the poor fellow that's gone, but it
really seems to me there is next to no evidence
of murder," whispered Morantt. " Dr. Ingieby
says that his opinion is theory only."

'' Yes, but not with regard to the wound ;
that he holds decidedly was not self-inflicted.
Still so far there is not much to implicate
Foxborough beyond this : If it is murder, and
not Foxborough, who on earth can it be ? '*

Thomas Jeukinson, the waiter, was now
brought forward by Inspector Thresher. He
bore witness to the arrival of No. 11 on the
Saturday, to his sudden interest in the opening
of the Marlborough theatre, how on his return
from there on Monday he announced that he
had a friend coming to dine with him next
day ; how the following morning he gave
rather elaborate directions about this dinner
to Mr. Marlinson, and how eventually Mr.
Fossdyke arrived, and asked for No. 11 under
the name of Foxborough ; they had not known
his name at the Hoping previously. Further
questioned by Mr. Trail, Jenkinson said the
two gentlemen drank a good deal of wine, but
were neither of them the least the worse for
liquor when he left them. Took up a tray
according to order at half-past ten with a
small decanter of brandy and four bottles of
seltzer. Two bottles of the seltzer only were
drunk, but all the brandy was gone when
the chambermaid brought it down the next

o

G 2

morning. Heard the voices of both gentlemen
raised as if in dispute as he brought up the
trap, and as he entered the room heard Mr.
Foxborough say, "The game is in my hands,
and they are my terms," or words to that
effect. The gentlemen stopped talking the
minute they saw him. Had never seen
Mr. Fossdyke before, and should not have
known who he was, but was told by his
master and Salter, who both it appeared knew
him.

The next witness was Inspector Thresher,
whose evidence was brief and business-like.
He simply testified to having been sent forby
Marlinson, and finding Mr. Fossdyke
stabbed through the heart, and stone dead, as
described by three of the previous witnesses.
He at once took charge of the room and everything
it, and telegraphed a brief account of the
affair to Scotland-yard. The unfortunate
gentleman's rings, watch, and some ten pounds
odd, consisting of a five-pound note, gold, and

silver, lay on the dressing-table. He knew
Mr. Fossdyke perfectly ; lie was often over in
Bun bury for a day or so ; but usually got back
to Baumborougli to sleep."

And now, wheezing and puffing with excitement,
Mr. Totterdell appears. He is a splendid
specimen of that very aggravating species,
the discursive witness ; convinced too at this
present that the eyes of England are upon him,
and will continue on him for no little time,
for the evidence he is about to drive before the
Coroner will but whet the curiosity of the
public for the disclosures he will be likely to
make at the trial, when everything he wishes
to tell is drawn from him by the acute questioning
of counsel. Mr. Totterdell is happily
oblivious of that other side of tendering;
important evidence — namely, the being turned
inside out by a sharp cross-examiner, a process
that usually gives a witness of his description
a literal approximation to what a
cockchafer's feelings must be with a pin

through him. No buzz left in him, but as
deadly gnawing at the vitals as ever Prometheus
endured on his rock.

Now, the Coroner — who thoroughly understood
his work, and was a tolerably firm,
decisive man to boot, generally kept his jury
in excellent order for instance, and promptly
put a stop to irrelevant tendencies in Garrisons
or Bill Gibbons — had this one weakness,
he couldn't quite harden his heart to cut
a gentleman short in similar fashion. Mr.
Totterdell, Town Councillor of Marlborough,
in his eyes claimed indulgence not to be
granted to witnesses of more plebeian positions,
and that worthy gentleman commenced his
evidence with a little homily concerning his
regret that he and the lamented deceased had
not of late been on intimate terms. Nobody
reo-retted it more than he did, but it eras not
his fault ; it all arose from that fatal reticence
that was the blot in poor Fossdyke's character ;
and here mr. Totterdell looked around, as if to

point out to the spectators the flood of light he
was letting in upon the case.

The Coroner, who had been forgetting in his
chair for some minutes, took advantage of the
pause to say, 'you must pardon my remarking,
Mr. Totterdell, that all this has nothing
to do with the inquiry, and that I must
request you to confine your evidence as to
what you may know of Mr. Foxborough."

I am beginning my story, sir, from the
first ; it is not probable that any one can throw
such light upon this awful crime as myself,
and I must request — " continued Mr. Totterdell.

'' You're perfectly right, Mr. Coroner," struck
in j\[r. Trail ; " as watching the case for the
Crown I have no hesitation in pointing out
first, that the witness's evidence so far is utterly
irrelevant to the matter in hand ; and, in the
second place, I am requested to say that these
details are likely to be peculiarly painful to
the deceased's family."

As I said before, Mr. Totterdell," remarked

the Coroner, " I must beg you to restrict your
evidence to your personal knowledge of Mr.
Foxborougli for the present, and what took
place between you at Marlborough. If you
have nothing to tell us on this point we will
not detain you any longer."

If the Coroner had studied for weeks how
to extinguish the discursive Totterdell he
could have set upon nothing so effectual.
The bare idea that his evidence might be
dispensed with gave that gentleman a cold
shiver. It was in a much more submissive
manner that he rejoined, " I was only anxious
to make things as clear as possible, and am
sorry that the truth should be offensive to
my god-daughter, Mrs. Fossdyke ; but if, sir,
in a preliminary inquiry like this, you desire
condensed evidence, of course I can give you
a sketch of what I have to tell."

*' Preliminary inquiry," 'sketch of what
he had to tell" — these two phrases put the
Coroner on his mettle. He had no idea of

his court being looked at in that light, and
the impertinence of suggesting that an outline
of evidence was sufficient for his inquiry,
made that official modify his views about
treating Mr. Totterdell with much consideration
not a little.

"I have only to say, Mr. Totterdell, that
this investigation cannot go on for ever," he
remarked sharply. " If you have anything
to tell us perhaps you will be kind enough
to do so at once without further rambling; •
if not I will hear the next witness."

The fear of not beings allowed to tell his

o

story at once coerced Mr. Totterdell into
telling it as far as in him lay without amplifications,
and supported by Mr. Trail, the
Coroner determined to pull the garrulous old
gentleman up sharply if he attempted any
such wild digression as he had commenced
with ; but to narrate what wee know or have
seen succinctly is only given to the few, and
ran of the Totterdell stamp can no more

help being diffuse on an occasion of this kind
than they can help breathing. The clear,
concise account, so prized by lawyers, scientific
inquirers, medical men, &c. — all, in short,
who wish to arrive at facts as quickly as maybe
— is not possible to many from whom
they are compelled to collect evidence. Mr.
Totterdell, in vague, wandering fashion, disclosed
how he had made the acquaintance
of the stranger at the opening of the Baum-borough
theatre, his curiosity about who
people were, his especial curiosity with regard
to the deceased, how the stranger had even
requested him to spell the name of Fossdyke,
how he had asked who Miss Hyde was, and
here Mr. Totterdell would have been wildly
discursive if the Coroner had not intervened.
Pulled up abruptly on this point, the old
gentleman narrated, with sundry shrugs and
grimaces, how he had picked up the music-hall
bill, and so arrived at the stranger's
name, '' and thus," he added, looking round

for applause and posing as if receiving the
freedom of the city in a gold box, ^* was
enabled to give valuable information to the
police and be of inestimable service to my
country." And neither the goose that saved
the Capitol, nor the first Stuart discovering
the Gunpowder Plot, ever looked half so
sagacious as Mr. Totterdell at this juncture.
Nobody in the room had listened more
closely to Mr. Totterdell's evidence than
Sergeant Usher ; indeed, although keeping
himself sedulously in the background, not
even Mr. Trail was keeping a keener watch
over the case.

"Pretty conclusive, that, I should say,"
remarked Inspector Thresher, as he crossed
over to where the Sergeant was seated.

He told all he knew, and was very anxious
to tell a deal more he didn't. What a wasteful
creature of time it is. It was well the Coroner
responded so quickly to Mr. Trail, just to curb
him up a bit."

What does tins next witness know about
it?"

Well, to tell you the plain truth, Thresher,
that's just what I am a little curious to see,"
rejoined the Sergeant.

I can't see how a younsr woman from
London can throw much light on it."

Lord ! there's no knowing," rejoined the
Sergeant, quietly. " It's astonishing the light
I've seen thrown upon things by young women
in my time."

Ellen Maitland, a nice-looking, quietly-dressed
girl, here stepped forward and
answered to her name. She seemed very
nervous, and was obviously much distressed.
She was parlour-maid, she said, to Mrs. Fox-borough,
at Tapton Cottage, Eegent's Park.
Did not know what she had been summoned
here for. Had heard of the murder, but knew
nothing whatever of Mr. Fossdyke. Had
never seen or even heard of him till the last
two days. Her master was much away from

home ; had last seen him about a week ago at
Tapton Cottage. Knew that he was suspected
of this crime, but felt sure that he had nothing
to do with it."

The Coroner looked a little impatiently at
Inspector Thresher, as much as to say, " Producing
witnesses like this is simply frittering
away the time of the court." Inspector
Thresher on his part looked round for Sergeant
Usher, who in reality was responsible for Ellen
Maitland's appearance, but that worthy was
nowhere to be seen. The Coroner signified
that he had no further occasion for the witness;
and she was about to leave the table, when
Mr. Trail suddenly rose and said, " With your
permission, Mr. Coroner, I have a question or
two to put to this young woman."

The Coroner signified his assent.

Then against with the dexterity of a conjurer,
Mr. Trail produced that quaint Eastern dagger
that has played so prominent a part in the
history of this crime, and turning abruptly on

Ellen' Maitland asked — " Had she ever seen
that before ? "

The girl half uttered a low cry of dismay, for
she had read enough in the papers to know what
that weapon was. She hesitated for a moment,
and then faltered forth a reluctant " Yes."
Where had she seen it ? "
'' iVt Tapton Cottage. It was sometimes in
the drawing-room, hut more generally in Mr.
Foxborough's own room."

Good heavens, Phil ! " whispered Herbert
Morantt, '' I know that dagger well. I've
played with it often. Its nominal use was
that of a paper-cutter, but a knick-knack more
described its status than any other term."

^' I am sorry for you," returned Soames, ashe
gripped his friend's hand. " I begin to
fear your trouble is like to prove worse than
mine own."

What do you think ? " asked Herbert, in
an awe-struck whisper.

'' Hush," replied Phil. " I only know that

things are looking very ugly for Mr. Fox-borough.
Where can he be ? It is almost

o

preposterous to suppose in these days he can
possibly be ignorant of the awful indictment
against him ; of the awful crime with which
he is charged."

*^ It will be terrible news for me to take
back to London," murmured Morantt in
tremulous tones.

"It looks bad," rejoined Phil, 'but we
haven't heard it out yet."

Do you know," resumed Mr. Trail,
whether Mr. Foxborough took this away
with him when he last left London ? "

The witness could not say, not to her
knowledge at all events.

When did you first miss it ? "

"I have never missed it. I didn't notice
that it had disappeared."

Then for all you know positively," observed
Mr. Trail, " that dagger might be
actually in Tapton Cottage at this moment ? "

It might," but the witness remembered
that she had not seen it lately ; "if that was
not the same dagger it was the very ditto
of it."

Mr. Trail then intimated that he had no
other questions to put and Inspector Thresher
informed the Coroner that he had no further
evidence to produce. Poor Ellen Maitland
retired in a somewhat tearful state, produced
by the fear that she had somehow worked
woe to her mistress, for whom she had the
greatest admiration and respect. And then
the Coroner proceeded to sum up. He commented
first on the medical testimony, which,
as he pointed out, was at variance, whereas
Doctor Duncome rather inclined to believe it
was a case of suicide, Doctor Inglebyby was
strongly of opinion that the wound was not
self-inflicted. It was quite clear that, whoever
No. 11 might be, the deceased recognized
him under the name of Foxborough, and asked
for him by that appellation. The evidence of

Mr. Totterdell was as yet of small account, as
lie could not identify the stranger as James
Foxborough, the dropped music-hall bill of
course going for nothing ; but, if in consequence
of their verdict Foxborough should be
apprehended, then Mr. Totterdell's evidence as
to his identity or not with the stranger at the
theatre would be of the highest importance.
He was only calling the attention of the jury
to the more salient points of the evidence,
and the testimony of the last witness perhaps
tended more to implicate Foxborough than
anything else. Ellen Maitland identified the
weapon with which the crime had been committed
as her master's property. The motive
for this murder, if murder you consider it, was
so far unapparent, but that is by no means
uncommon in crimes of this description. The
facts were briefly these : '^ Mr. Fossdyke comes
to the Hoping to dine with a strange gentleman,
whom he before the landlord and waiter
recognized as Mr. Foxborous^h : they undoubt-vol.

II. H

ely have some dispute in the course of the
evenings. Mr. Foxboroug^h leaves the first
thing next morning, and has not since been
heard of, while in the afternoon his guest is
found stabbed through the heart, and the somewhat
peculiar weapon with which the crime
was accomplished is proved to be the property
of the still absent Foxborough. Of course,
gentlemen, you may find it suicide, but in the
event of your finding it murder, I would
submit to your consideration whether you are
not justified in returning a verdict of wilful
murder against James Foxborough."

There was a brief consultation amongst the
jury, and then the foreman intimated to the
Coroner that they had arrived at a conclusion
and, in response to the customary interrogatory
on his part, the foreman returned, on
behalf of himself and brethren, a verdict of
*' Wilful murder against James Foxborough."

The verdict was quite in accordance with
popular expectation, and yet the day's proceedings

had influenced some of the lookers-on
in a way they little expected. Mr. Sturton,
for instance, now that a verdict of wilful
murder was actually recorded against the
missing Foxborough, was perturbed in his
mind about that loan of £6000 of which he
found the major part not a fortnight ago. It
is not that he is anxious about his money, that
he knows is well secured, but he is not clear
whether it is not his duty to communicate
with the police, and let them know how well
furnished with funds the fugitive is. He has
as much horror of being mixed up in a case of
this kind as Mr. Totterdell has pride, and yet
he would fain, as a law-abiding citizen, do his
duty to the State ; still he thinks, as he wends
his way to the station, there is no necessity for
immediate action. It will be time enough to
communicate with Scotland Yard a day or two
hence.

It's of course useless asking you to come
back with me, Herbert," said Soames, '' but

remember, in a week or two, when we have a
little got over all this trouble, I shall expect
you to pay me your deferred visit."

'' I am only too anxious to do so, but I
must go back to-night. You were saying it
was a cruel task the having to break the sad
tidings of her husband's death to Mrs. Foss-dyke,
but think, Phil, the story I have got
to tell when I reach London ; to tell these
unfortunate ladies what a coroner's inquest has
branded their husband and father."

It's hard — cruel hard," replied Soames, ashe
gripped his friend's hand. " God send you
well through it, old man."

One moment. Dr. Inglebyby," said a voice in
his ear, as he was about to follow Phil into the
Bunbury train, " but have you made out
anything about that letter ? "

No, I am sorry to tell you that so far all
search for it has proved fruitless ; you still
attach great importance to its discovery ? "

*' I told you that, sir," replied Sergeant

Usher, "I told you that letter was worth a
hundred pounds a few days ago. Well, sir,
I tell you it's worth two hundred now," and
with that mysterious commentary on the
result of the day's proceedings the Sergeant
disappeared.

CHAPTER V.

SERGEANT USHER VISITS THE Hoping.

Sergeant Usher occupies a second floor
in Spring Gardens. It is handy. to the Yard
and to a good many other places which are
in the ordinary routine of the Serjeant's
business ; railway stations like Charing Cross
and Victoria within easy distance, Marbles
Bow Street, and Westminster police
courts specially come-table, to say nothing
of the Seven Dials, Drury Lane, Short's
Gardens, Bedfordbury, and the slums of
Westminster, all, so to speak, being under
the Sergeant's own eye. Mr. Usher is a
bachelor, he has a mean opinion of the other
sex, probably consequent on bad treatment

received at the hands of one of them,
although he professes it to be founded on
professional experience. A profound believer
Mr. Usher in the theory of cherries la femme.
A woman, he contends, is at the bottom of
most crimes, and when puzzled by an intricate
case the Serjeant invariably takes it that
a woman, as yet undiscovered, is the probable
motive-factor.

'* Having no fair partner to share his home,
the Sero^eant is constrained in a Teat measure
to do for himself," and a defter bachelor is
seldom come across. Having let himself into
his lodgings with his latch-key, after his
usually noiseless fashion, on his return from
Bunbury, the Serjeant proceeded to light the
fire, throw off his boots, and then in the easy
deshabille of slippers and shirt sleeves, looked
in the cupboard for a gridiron and a couple
of chops ; these obtained, and the fire by this
having sufficiently burnt up, Mr. Usher proceeded
first to broil his chops, and then to

consume them with the adjuncts of bread,
pickles, &c., all furnished by the same inexhaustible
cupboard. Leaving the clearing upto
the charwoman next morning, Mr. Usher
next produced a bottle of whiskey, put the
kettle on the fire, and having lit a long clay
pipe, sat down to smoke and ruminate over
this Bunbury case as far as he had carried it.

"It is a queer business this," he muttered
to himself, " and it certainly begins to look
awkward for Foxborough, and yet, after all,
the strongest evidence ao^ainsfc him is himself.
If he is not guilty, where is he ? and.
Usher, my friend, I don't mind owning to
you in confidence, that's ' a rum 'un.' If anybody
had told me a man like James Fox-borough
could openly leave Bunbury for
London, be wanted within twelve hours, and
have apparently vanished into space, I'd have
called him a noddy ; but we can't find a trace
of him from the time he left Bunbury platform.
Until that girl recognized the dagger

to-day, I was beginning to suspect we were
in search of the wrong Foxborough ; and yet,
if that is so, why does not James Foxborough
come forward ? Every one's talking about
this murder ; he must have heard he's accused
of it, and to prove an alibi if he was not the
man at Bunbury must be as simple as falling
off a log. It's perhaps a little early to speak,
but it strikes me as somewhat odd that the
theatrical agents seem all abroad about him
as the manager of touring country companies ;
they seem to know nothing about him in that
line, and yet any man who has anything todo
with that sort of business is pretty well
known right through the profession.

No, this murder — and I feel pretty clear
now that it is a murder — is, as Mr. Squeers
said of nature', ' a rum 'un.' The why of it
and the where of it % for it is not at all
clear to me that Fossdyke was killed in his
bed-room. I'm candid, very; but I did not
let on to Dr. Inglebyby that my theory

coincided with his, and that the man was
stabbed in the sitting-room. I reckoned up
that room, too, but could make nothing out
of it ; the leaving the dagger in the wound,
whether done by accident or design, of course
stopped the effusion of blood ; still it is
curious there were no traces whatever of it.
Shrewd mau, old Inglebyby ; his theory al^out
the direction of the wound had stuff in it."
And here Mr, Usher refilled his pipe and
mixed himself a jorum of hot whiskey and
water.

Staring into the glowing coals, and puffing
forth heavy clouds of smoke, the sergeant
resumed his argument :

'' There's that letter, the key to the whole
business I'd lay my life if I could but come
by it, but that's not likely now ; Fossdyke
probably destroyed it. Miss Hyde, now — I
shouldn't wonder if that girl could throw
some light upon the affair if she chose. She
had heard and knew something of James

Foxborough before the murder, I'd bet my
life, but she's not the young woman to commit
herself, I fancy. Once we lay hold of
Foxborouo^h, and he is identified with the
man at the Hoping, it is simple enough,
but as things stand at present no jury would
find him guilty of murder, in my opinion.
To think him so, and find him so, are two
different things in the mind of a juror, and
in this case he'd be right. The evidence, if
awkward, is not conclusive as yet. But how
are we to get at Foxborough ? — privately I
own I'm beat. Watching the house in the
Regent's Park neighbourhood is no good— he
has never been near it yet, and is not likely
to make for that now. I'll see the watch is
taken off tomorrow — it's useless, and leaving
the nest unguarded might perchance ensnare
our bird. A man like Foxborough would lie
well supplied with money and brains, and
with them a man ous^ht to beat all Scotland
Yard in London. If we don't come upon

James Foxborougli in a few days I shall begin
to feel pretty confident that he is the man
we want, but as yet I've not quite made up
my mind about it. Nice old man about a
town that Totterdell. Shouldn't wonder if
he don't cause a murder or so before he dies.
A daft, diffuse gabbler like that sets people
pretty wild at times, and leads to the cutting
of the wrong throat. Enough, rough, very
rough — just like turkeys — we never kill the
old gobble who makes all the cackle, but
some of his unfortunate followers who are
weak enough to listen to him ; " and with
this profound moral reflection. Sergeant Usher
knocked the ashes out of his pipe, finished
his whiskey and water, and took himself off
to bed.

That a coroner's jury had returned a verdict
of " Wilful murder against James Fox-borough"
did not go for much in the eyes
of Sergeant Usher ; people were neither hung
nor sentenced on the direction of a coroner's

jury, and a conviction that had not that
result was a mere blank cartridge affair
compared to a regular battle in the Sergeant's
eyes. This man was an enthusiast in his
vocation — he was not one whit bloodthirsty,
he had no craving for any extreme sentence
against the unfortunate he had brought face
to face with the gallows, but he was keen fora
conviction. It was the pride of a logician
who desires to see his carefully thought-out
argument endorsed. He was like that famous
historical dog — the pointer dio in a game-abounding
country did his devoir so nobly,
but whose miserable employer missed shot
after shot and brought nothing to hand.
How that animal at last put its tail between
its legs, roused the welkin (whatever that
may be) with its howl, and fled disgusted
to its kennel, is it not recorded in the ' Lies
about Dogs,^ lately published by the Society
of ' Animated Fiction.'

Sergeant Usher was much like that noble

and hardly-tried pointer ; when juries refused
to " run straight " and convict the quarry he
had marked down and brought to their notice,
the gallant officer also betook himself to his
private apartments in deep dudgeon, not, as I
have already said, from any fierce thirst for
his victim's annihilation, but that his carefully
worked-out chain of reasoning should be
deemed inconclusive was gall and wormwood.
Was it not Hazlitt who said in reference
to the tumultuous ending of some stormy
disputation, "The blow was nothing, and
you'll admit I had the best of the argument."
That was Sergeant Usher's case exactly ; if
you refused to jut faith in his inductive
theory he was disgusted, but to do him
justice no man ever was more sceptical of
evidence or sifted it closer, and if that done
he had satisfied himself, that he was unmistakably
annoyed if others did not arrive at
a similar conclusion.

The Press and the public meanwhile have

no little to say about the lethargy and
insufficiency of the police. No allowance is
made for the difficulty of tracking a culprit
who has once gained the shelter of this
gigantic warren of London with its multiplicity
of burrows. The hunted deer is
usually safe when he gains the herd, and that
is pretty much the case of the criminal who
has once reached the metropolis, always
premising two things, that he has command
of money, and is no recognized unit of the
Bedouins of Babylon, in which latter case he
suffers under the great disadvantage of his
haunts, habits, and person being known to
the police in the first place, and the chance
of being realized by his comrades in the
second, that is, betrayed for the reward.
Still the public, and the Press as the echo
of the public thought, are ever feverishly
anxious for the apprehension of the hero of
a sensational crime, and no journal has yet
even hinted that has taken place.

The Sergeant next morning awoke clear
and cool-headed as ever. Having dressed
and finished his breakfast he sat down to
carefully study the report of the inquest in
the morning paper, and as he smoked his
pipe and thought over this he slowly arrived
at a definite conclusion. Placing the arrest
of Foxborough on one side, where was there
any probability of obtaining a clue to the
true story of this crime ? Was it to be
discovered in Tap ton Cottage ? He thought
not : if Foxborouo;h was the murderer he
fancied his wife and daughter were incomplete
ignorance of any motive that could
have possibly led to it. No, it was not to
Tapton Cottage that he must look for information.
He could hardly expect to derive
assistance from them in any case, but the
Sergeant came to the conclusion that they
could tell him little even if they would.
There were four channels he reckoned from
which it was possible inspiration might spring.

First and foremost, that letter, which had
taken John Fossdyke to Bunbury, could
it but be come by ; secondly, he had a
strong idea that Miss Hyde could tell something
about James Foxborough if she would ;
thirdly, he could not help imagining that
those rooms of the Hoping must be able to
tell something if closely interrogated. He
was haunted with the idea that they had
not as yet been thoroughly investigated, and
yet he himself had examined them narrowly ;
and, lastly, he had a vague idea that the
wearisome creature Totterdell, as Mr. Usher
mentally dubbed him, might have something
of importance to tell, could one but get at
it ; only to be arrived at, thinks the Sergeant,
by listening to some hours of blethering and
by much judicious questioning.

It therefore became quite evident to Sergeant
Usher that Marlborough must be his
head-quarters for the present. The apprehension
of Foxborough he must leave to his

VOL. II. 1

brethren as far as London went, but the
niceties of the case he feels convinced are
only to be worked out through the four
channels indicated, and he is fain to confess
that they seem to promise but little information.
Still, the Sergeant has unravelled
skeins tanoiecl as this in his time, when the
key of the puzzle looked quite as unattainable.
He possesses the chief qualities of a
scientific investigator, patience, coolness, and
a natural faculty for inductive reasoning ; and
though admitting to himself that things do
not look promising, resolves to start for
Baumborouo^h as soon as he has conferred
with his chiefs in Scotland Yard. Sergeant
Usher's arrangements are speedily made, and
that evening sees him once more in Gainsborough.
One of the first visits he pays is
to Dr. Inglebyby. He is admitted at once, but
the Doctor receives him with a shake of the
head.

'' You have come in the vain hope that

letter might have been discovered, but I am
sorry to say it has not, and I tell you fairly,
that I think that there is little or no chance
of coming upon it now. All likely places have
been closely overhauled without a sign of it.
Mrs. Fossdyke and Miss Hyde, although
neither of them read it over, were both
positive it was quite a short note and agree
in thinking it was probably destroyed.
From the account of the scene at the
breakfast table," continued Doctor Inglebyby,
"I have no doubt you are quite right in
the estimate yoa put upon that note. Jt
was a good deal more than an invitation
to dinner, no doubt : men are not agitated
in the way poor Fossdyke is described to
have been by notes of that kind. I presume
that if he had it about him it would have
been found at the Hoping."

His clothes and effects, you see, sir, were
searched by Inspector Thresher before I got
there, and bear in mind, it was not till I went

I 2

over to Dyke with you that I ever heard of
that letter. I looked the room pretty carefully
over, but it is true it was more with a
view to discovering some trace of a struggle
or obtaining some evidence bearing on the
actual perpetration of the crime. It is
possible, of course, he may have had the
letter about him, but I can't think Thresher
would have overlooked it. He may not bea
practised officer like myself at these
inquiries, but his search would be thorough,
and he would be quite able to judge of the
importance of such a document if he had
found it. Not likely, I'm afraid, we shall
come across it now, but mark me, Doctor,
that letter would have thrown a good deal of
light upon this case, which is at present as
queer a puzzle as ever I had set me."

Yes," rejoined Dr. Inglebyby, musingly.
What the connection was between the two
men is at present a complete mystery. Still,
I recollect hearing; Totterdell, when we had

considerable discussion about the erection of
the Marlborough theatre, say that he had
heard Fossdyke claim to having had much
experience of theatrical matters in his
younger days ; indeed he asked him a question
something to the effect at the Council
one day."

Ah ! " ejaculated the Sergeant.

However, Fossdyke brusquely declined to
answer him. They didn't hit it otf very well,
as you know ? "

"No; thank you very much for that hint,
sir. It would quite probably be the bond
between them ; " and although the open-hearted
Sergeant did not think that there
was anv necessity for informing Ing-lebv
of his intention, he then and there determined
to attempt the solution of the mystery by
tracing back John Fossdyke's early career.

One thing more. Would it be possible
for me to have a talk Avitli Miss Hyde ? "

No ; not at present. Besides, wdiat' can

you want with her ? " inquired the doctor, in
no little astonishment.

lyell, I am convinced she knows something
of James Foxborough. Will you
question her about him for me ? She has
said she has never seen him, but she has
knowledge of him in some shape."

I have no objection to do that, letting
her know beforehand that it is for your
information, mind."

Quite so ; quite so ; and now Fll say
o'ood nio-ht. Fll call in before leavings Baum-borough
tomorrow and hear anything you
may have to tell me. Once more, goodnight,
sir ; " and so saying Sergeant Usher
vanished in the darkness.

He busied himself about Marlborough in
that sort of desultory fashion in which the
Sergeant always pursued his inquiries. He
seemed the veriest lounger about, ready to
gossip with anybody upon any subject, or
even to drink with any one ; but though free

enough in the matter of paying for other
people's liquor, it was little Mr. Usher consumed
himself. Similarly, though he was
addicted apparently to holding the most idle
converse, yet both eye and ear were ever on
the alert ; and let him discourse about trade,
poetics, horse-racing, the weather, or, in a
a town like Marlborough, about the price of
corn or oxen, the talk invariably gravitated
towards the murder. Mr. Usher had no
objection to advance some vague view of
his own upon the subject, but noted keenly
what other people might say. That there
was much winnowing of chaff inevitable in
such investigation no one knew better than
Mr. Usher. No one had a keener eye for
that grain of evidence or information when
he crossed it than the Sergeant, but he had
talked through many a long day and deemed
the words of his fellow-men idle.

Mr. Usher had laid down his programme
and intended to adhere rigidly to it ; he was

by no means sanguine, but the four channels
from which he conceived inspiration with
regard to the crime might come he resolved
should be honestly dredged. The recovery
of the letter seemed hopeless ; he had picked
up nothing more of any use to him in the
town ; he had only to see whether Dr. Inglebyby
had been more successful at Dyke, and then
he was off to Bunbury to spend a night or
so at the Hoping. An afternoon with Mr.
Totterdell he reserved to the last. Detective
officers are human, and may be pardoned for
hesitating to resort to desperate endeavours
in their vocation until extremity compels.

Well, sir, have you any tidings for me ? "
asked the Sergeant, as he entered Doctor
Inglebyby's library late in the afternoon.

"Yes, in one sense; but what you will
I fancy term none. I questioned Miss Hyde
on the subject of James Foxborough. She
admits she knows him by name, and as the
proprietor of the Syringa Music-Hail perfectly

well, but says she never saw him in her life,
and cannot connect him in any way with Mr.
Fossdyke. She further declares her knowledge
of Mr. Foxborough can have no bearing on
this case and would be excessively painful
for her to explain."

There is no more then to be said, sir.
I rather fancy I should be a better judge
than Miss Hyde of how far her knowledge
of James Foxborough might tend to connect
him with the deceased, but of course if the
young lady does not wish to tell what she
knows, there is nothing so far to justify our
annoying her. I'm off, so we'll say goodbye."


'' Good-bye, Sergeant Usher," replied the
Doctor, a little crisply. He rather liked the
Sero^eant, but he was indignant that he should
imagine Miss Hyde would keep back anything
that could possibly tend to throw light upon
the catastrophe they were all lamenting.

Good sort, the Doctor," murmured Mr.

Uglier, when he found himself in the street-not
worth a cent in my business, though ;
lets his feelings run away with him, as if
sifting evidence and feelings could possibly
go together. That Miss Hyde could throw
a deal of light on the business, I'll bet my
life, if she could be persuaded to speak out.
She has nothing to do with it, nor is she
aware that what she can testify bears in the
slightest degree on the affair, but I am convinced
it does. Now a real, good overhaul
of the rooms at the Hoping, and then —
then, I suppose, a long afternoon with that
wearisome creature Totterdell will have to begot
through. The only way to get at what
the likes of him has to say is simply to let
him talk and give him time."

:^ * * *

That night, an elderly gentleman pulled

up at the door of the Hoping, and demanded

rooms. He was a gentleman apparently of

the old school, small in stature, formal in

manner, as well as slightly irritable. A
curious combination, that even awed Mr.
Marlinson when he came in contact with
him. Formal and polite in the first instance,
but unmistakably waspish when he didn't
get his own way, and he proved hard to
satisfy in the matter of rooms. They must
be on the first floor he asserted, and to those
allotted to him he expressed the strongest
aversion. At length Mr. Marlinson said
boldly he should regret very much not being
able to accommodate the gentleman, but that
unless those rooms suited him he had no
others vacant on that floor, except a set just
at present out of use. If the gentleman ever
looked at a paper he had no doubt read of the
awful calamity that had befallen the Hoping,
and here Mr. Marlinson paused to give the
stranger an opportunity of condoling with him.
You mean," said the old gentleman, " the
set in which the murder was committed. But
I have no superstitions ; interviewed, tried,

and hung too many murderers in India to
have any compunctions about apartments because
some little difference of opinion was
quietly disposed of in them. No, no, my
good friend, in all my experience it's the dead
men alone you can rely upon not turning up
again. Give them long spells of imprisonment
and still the scoundrels come before you again,
but once dead they are done with and bother
you no more. Let's see the rooms."

'•' He ain't a sticker at trifles apparently,"
muttered Mr. Marlinson, 'but at the same time
it flashed across him what an excellent person
the old gentleman would be to sit in judgment
on James Foxborouo-h, wherever he should
be laid hands on. The new-comer professed
himself perfectly satisfied with these rooms,
ordered a snug little dinner and a fire in
the sittings-room, remarking that long' residence
in India was apt to make one somewhat
chilly when once more encountering the
climate of one's native land. It was a raw

evening, and a blaze in the grate was unmistakably
cheerful, and Sergeant Usher, for, of
course, the ci-devant Indian judge was that
functionary, his dinner satisfactorily disposed
of, thought as he sat sipping his port and
cracking his walnuts that the Hoping was
a very comfortable and well-conducted house.
He had metamorphosed himself so as to have
an unrestricted investigation of the rooms, not
sanguine about obtaining a result by any
means, but he wished to look these rooms
over and pick up what he might in the hotel
without taking the Hoping into his confidence.
He had not even let Inspector
Thresher know of his presence, but determined
to work out this business by himself. It
might be, perhaps, the swagger of a well-known
London officer, or it mio^ht be wnuine
disbelief in his professional colleague, but
certain it is that the Sergeant was not prepared
to give much credence to Inspector
Thresher in this business.

No sooner did he have the room to himself
than Mr. Usher commenced his course of
investigation. He had questioned the waiter
no little during dinner concerning the murder,
and Jenkinson, after the manner of his class,
was only too delighted to tell his story, and
readily led into the relation of all the minor
details. Not an article in the room but was
closely scrutinized, and to aid him in his task
the Sergeant drew from his breast-pocket a
strong magnify king-glass. Through this, and
even going down on his knees for the purpose,
he carefully examined the carpet and also the
furniture, but no tell-tale stain supported the
theory of both Dr. Inglebyby and himself, that
it was in that room James Foxborough came
by his death. Neither on carpet nor furniture
could Mr. Usher's well-trained eyes detect
the sign of a struggle nor the deep-hued
spots he sought. The theory might be just,
but there was nothing whatever to corroborate
it.

Mr. Usher sat down, lit his pipe, ordered
some spirits and water, and proceeded to
reflect over the affair generally.

If Fossdyke vas killed here, he said to
himself, either by accident or design, it was
an uncommonly well managed assassination.
Not a trace of it is to be found. If he was
killed in the bed-room, how did it come
about ? or is it, despite Dr. Inglebyby's opinion,
a mere ordinary case of suicide. No, I don't
believe it is a matter of self-murder ; that
the quarrel should arise here, and Foxborough
in his anger slay him, is intelligible enough,
but that he should have followed him to
his bed-room and killed him without creation

o

a disturbance seems almost incredible. In
his sleep, yes, but Mr. Fossdyke evidently
met his death before he had undressed, before
he had hardly begun to throw his clothes
off. I've no craving to see ghosts, but if
John Fossdyke's spirit would give me a
wrinkle to-night I'd be obliged to it, and

I don't think I'd be too much agitated
to take down the evidence. However, the
Sergeant's sleep proved as dreamless as a
healthy man's after a moderate modicum
of grog and tobacco should do. No inspiration
came to him from the world of shadows,
and as he sprang out of bed next day he
exclaimed, " the sitting room won't speak ;
I wonder whether this room will disclose the
secret of that September evening. The key
of the door, for instance, if it was suicide,
where is it ? If it is murder, it may be
anywhere ; but if the former, it inst be here,"
and Mr. Usher began an eaorer and searching;
investigation of the apartment. It was one
of the best bed-rooms in the Hoping, and
so somewhat extensively furnished. Not an
inch of the old-fashioned mahogany wardrobe
did the sergeant leave unexplored ; he turned
out the drawers, pulling them out and looking
behind them, seeking principally for this
missing key. The man had been found dead.

stabbed to death in his room, there was no
necessity to prove that — but whether it was
his own doing: or another's was matter of
grave inquiry, and to this fact the Sergeant
was now confining himself, not altogether
incapable of noting anything that might bear
upon the case, but concentrating himself, as
great scientific discoverers usually do, for the
time ujDon the one point. He searched the
drawers of the dressing-table, he moved the
washing-stand, he moved the bed, he felt
the carpet all over with his hands and bare
feet, he withdrew the gaudy cut paper device
that masked the fireplace, disclosing some
few crumpled scraps of paper behind it, but
no key. He peered up the chimney, and
even felt on either side of the flue, but he
discovered nothing. He opened the window,
examined the sill, and took the bearings of
the flower-bed below. Possibly the dead man
might have thrown the key from thence if
he were self-slain. Mr. Usher had best

VOL. II. K

consult the flower-bed on that subject, for
that seems to be his last chance of arriving
at the discovery he aims at.

But the Sergeant, like many other people
in earnest, searching for one truth discovers
another ; that it is a cold, raw, damp morning,
and. that between an open window, scant
clothing, and an unsuccessful quest, besides
the chill of disappointment, he has contracted
physical shivers. He rings the bell and
orders the chambermaid to light a fire and.
bring him a cup of tea. He a little staggered
Eliza Salter by the request, fires in September
being an unheard-of thing in bed-rooms in
an old conservative house like the Hoping,
which rather held that there were seasons for
fires and seasons for fanciful papers on the
hearth, not to be interfered with by trifling
variations in the weather. Still the eccentricities
of travellers where wondrous, and of
returned Anglo-Indians anything might be
expected, and Bunbury had considerable

experience of these, the pretty little town
being much affected by these whilom shakers
of the pagoda tree.

Eliza soon returns with both tea and kindling,
and having placed the former on the
table, proceeds to clear out the grate previous
to laying the fire. Mr. Usher idly watches
her, and with his mind still absorbed on the
mystery of the key, stares vacantly at the few
scraps of paper the chambermaid has raked
out and which still lie within the fender.
Eliza quietly continues her work, puts a match
to the kindling, and is about to thrust the
above-mentioned paper scraps into the grate to
assist the new-born fire when she is startled out
of all equilibrium by the crotchety old Indian
with the asthmatical cough (for such had Mr.
Usher appeared to her) suddenly exclaiming :
*stop, for your life, girl ! Let me see every
scrap of that paper before you burn it."

He was but just in time, and as the Sergeant
often said afterwards, when alluding to the

K 2

Bimbuiy murder case, "I can't tell to this
minute what put the notion into my head."

The chamber-maid, pauses, gathers the four
or five scraps of paper together, and hands
them over to that peremptory old Indian.

An impatient pshaw, and. the Sergeant contemptuously
throws back to Eliza Salter a
couple of old washing-bills, records of guests
long departed ; but as he flattens out the third
piece of crumpled paper, he cannot restrain
from a slight start, and ejaculating with bated
breath, " By heavens ! it's the letter."

Yes, there it was, unmistakably enough, the
note that had brought John Fossdyke to the
Hoping. A scrap of paper worth two
hundred pounds, according to the finder's own
appraisement, cast carelessly at the back of
the grate, as a man might ordinarily be supposed
to do when dressing for the feast to
which such letter invited him, kept up to that
time in order there should be no mistake about
time or date.

Infallible key to the mystery had Mr.
tJsher pronounced this could it be come by, of
which he had abandoned all hope ; and no^^'
he has got it and reads it, the Sergeant is fain
to confess that it is not quite so big a clue ashe
anticipated. A mere scrap of a note ; any
ordinary invitation to dinner conveyed as
much, and it was with a puzzled expression
that Mr. Usher — the chambermaid havin^,^
departed — for the sixth or seventh time read
over the following : —

Hoping, Sept. 2>rd.

Dear Fossdyke,

Dine with me here tomorrow at 7.30.
I have something rather serious to communicate
to you concerning our last conversation.
Circumstances have improved my
business position regarding it considerably. I
feel sure you will not fail me when you see

that I am

Ever sincerely yours,

James Foxborough.

'^ Banbury, Monday night."

And once more did the Sergeant come to
the conclusion that letter was ''a rum 'un."
Valuable, no doubt, and likely, probably, to
lead up to something in the future, but it was
rather hard to see '' the how " of that just
now. Meanwhile Mr. Usher determined to
keep the finding of that letter entirely to himself.
Nobody but Eliza Salter had been
present when the discovery was made, and she
had not in the least connected the strange
gentleman with the murder further than he
was mighty anxious concerning it. An
opinion in which a comparison of notes with
Jenkinson, the waiter, confirmed her.

CHAPTER VI.

THE sergeant PUZZLED.

It was difficult to make much out of that
letter no doubt. Sergeant Usher, great as
had been his exultation at its recovery, was
compelled to own himself disappointed at
its contents. He twisted and tossed it over
in his mind again and again while he dressed,
but was fain to confess he as yet saw no key
to the enigma in that careless, laconic epistle.
Still no one knew better than the Sergeant
how easy is the rendering of a cipher when
you have once come at the initial letters ;
a mysterious epistle at present, but containing
three or four points which yet might throw
much light on the affair when he once learnt to

read between the lines. That he is possessor
of this letter is a fact Sergeant Usher
concludes to keep entirely to himself for a
little, but in this that intelligent officer considerably
over reached himself.

Eliza Salter might not be an out-of-the-way
clever girl, but a keen eye for surreptitious
Bullet-doux is part and parcel of a soubrette's
training, if ever she may hope to thrive in
her vocation. Lady's-maid or chambermaid, if
she don't understand deft passing of notes and
taking of gold pieces, she is basely ignorant of
her calling. Thunderstruck by the peremptory
order of the old Indian to hand those scraps
of paper to him, it was scarcely to be
supposed that she did not observe, busy as
she might affect to be over the fire, that the
old gentleman was obviously interested by
one that he retained. Your astute man is
often upset by an inferior adversary, whom
he has held too cheap. It is years ago since
I saw one of the best billiard-markers in

London beaten by an adversary to whom lie
had given three-fourths of the game, and
never troubled himself about, till his reckless
opponent bet him a sovereign on the result.
Then that marker laid down to it, but too late,
luck, and the free style of the play produced
on a neophyte by a bottle of old port proved
too much for him, and the amateur won easy.
How many millions that marker wanted to
play it over again for I forget, but the winner
knew better than that, and confined himself
to chaffing his antagonist on what he perfectly
comprehended was a most fiuky victory.

From people coming to see the rooms in
which the murder had been committed, the
murder had become the epidemic one might
say of the Hoping. Salter confided to
Jenkinson that the old gentleman had found
an important paper ; then she confidentially
apprised Gibbons, the boots, of the same ;
then she demanded sympathy from her
auditors on her having had courage to light

the fire, and so gradually paved the way
to proclaim herself heroine of this important
discovery, though of what this discovery
consisted she was entirely ignorant. In due
time the affair came to old Joe Marlinson's
ears, and once more was the worthy landlord
exercised past conception. It couldn't perhaps
]eat to another murder being perpetrated
at the Hoping, but that another inquest
would be held, Joe Marlinson thought quite
possible.

I am going to have it, I tell you, Salter ;
it's your business to burn up odds and ends
of that sort, and not let old Indian vultures
come hopping about snaking things like
badly brought up magpies. Look here,
Jenkinson, I mean just snuffing this business
out at once. I ain't going to have the
Hoping converted into a criminal court if
I know it. When that old magpie rings for
his breakfast, I'll just go up and let him have
a bit of my mind. He's no more right to

steal waste paper out of the grate than he
has tides off the chairs, or napkins off the
dinner-table. I'll not stand it ; blame me
if I do. Don't you forget, Jenkinson, I'll
see to his rolls and coffee being hot enough.
These retired Indians, as they are called,
are very intrusive in my opinion."

Despite his own curiosity, Jenkinson was
constrained to bow to his master's orders,
and when the strange gentleman's breakfast
was ready, duly acquainted his master with
the fact. It was with much pomposity that
Mr. Marlinson placed the quaint old Queen
Anne silver coffee-pot on the table. The
Hoping was not a little proud of its old
plate and its old wine, and had fair reason
in both cases. The returned Oriental seemed
very oblivious of Mr. Marlinson's presence ;
** Couldn't have paid less attention to an
under waiter," as that gentleman remarked
afterwards when narrating the story.

"That will do, you can put things down,

aijcl go," observed Sergeant Usher, still puzzling
over that letter, and getting fidgety at
the way his attendant buzzed about the room.
You'll excuse me, sir, but I've got justa
trifle to say first. We don't like criminal
inquiries and inquests, and such things, at
the Hoping. I happen to be its proprietor
that is to say, the landlord. I suppose
you understand common sense, I don't mean
common law, because that's expecting a good
deal of any one, but what you find in
the Hoping belongs to the Hoping, mind,
whether its pillow-cases, spoons, or scraps of
paper. I'm told you Ve taken possession of
a bit of paper. I am not going to put up
with that, as a matter of simple kindling
I wouldn't make a fuss about it, but if
that's going to bring more judges, juries,
and inquests and rifle-raff', I tell you I
don't mean standing it. Now just give me
the bit of paper, and we will see it burnt
all comfortable."

The Sergeant had listened to this speech
with no little amusement, and as a humorist
could not resist the temptation of giving the
autocratic landlord of the Hoping a slight
shock.

Look here, Joe Marlinson," he said, rising,
and utterly dropping his asthma attic cough and
old-fashioned courtly manner, " I'm Sergeant
Usher of the Criminal Investigation Department.
You've seen me before, though you
don't quite tumble to me now. I do pretty
much as I like wherever my duty calls upon
me to go. I've got all I want out of the
Hoping, and a deal more than I expected,
and shall be off by the twelve train ; but
don't you talk any more nonsense about
what may be taken out of the house, and
what may not be done, to me. You've one
thing to be grateful for " — and here the
Sergeant paused for interrogation.

But old Joe was past that ; with eyes starting
out of his head, and a mouth eminently

adapted for fly-catching, lie stood awaiting
what further surprise was in store for
him.

'' I'm not fool enough," continued Mr.
Usher, "to suppose I can muzzle a whole
hotel. I'm going at twelve, and you maybe
thankful I don't take you and most of
your people with me, just to ensure your not
talking about what you don't understand."

Me ! You threaten to take me to prison ! "
gasped Marlinson.

Mr. Usher had reckoned up the landlord
of the Hoping on his previous visit thereto,
and it was with an amused smile he replied —

No ! don't I tell you I shan't ; but if you
will have these sort of things done in your
house, you know "

'' There it is — that's the way they go on,"
exclaimed Marlinson, excitedly. " One might
suppose I'd asked the scoundrel to come down
here throat-cutting — that my advertisements
ran, 'To be done away with on the premises.'

I wish I was dead. I wish the old place was
burnt down. Once I've seen Foxborough
hung I'll never draw cork nor hand plate
again. Now, sir, I'm ready. You come here
as an old Indian judge, and turn out to be a
thief-catcher. I mean a manslayer ; no, I
mean a man-catcher. No, I don't know what
I mean, or who anybody is, or where anybody
goes to. Where's Foxborough ? Is it Jenkinson.
Is Eliza Salter a disguised countess or
female poisoner ? Go it, put on the handcuffs !
I know nothing about it, but no matter, I'm
ready : take me, take anything else you
fancy ! "

This comes of quenching excitement and
irritation with noyeau, curator, and kiimmel,"
muttered the Sergeant. '' Too much taking
done already, as far as he's concerned."

"Nonsense, Mr. Marlinson. You've had
the mischance to have a man killed in your
house. A temporary annoyance, no doubt,
but still you may safely say about over now.

You will be troubled no more, probably, except
to give evidence on the trial, and you know
very well not the faintest suspicion ever
attached to any one of your people."

I'm worried out of my life. People come
here, and no matter where you put 'em, you
can't convince 'em it isn't the room in which
the murder took place, and if you do succeed
in doing that then they want to see the room
where the murder was committed at once. I
tell you what it is. Sergeant, I've come to
well-nigh telling them, at times, there was no
murder on the bill of fare to-night, but no one
can say what will be served up for supper. I
knew poor Mr. Fossdyke well, and many a
dinner he's ate in this house ; but that, as far
as my memory serves, was both the first and
last bed ever he engaged. I'll never get right,
Mr. Usher, till the trial's done. I can't sleep
and I can't rest, and I can't do without more
drink than is good for me."

And here Mr. Marlinson sat down, leant his

head upon his hand, and appeared the very-picture
of dejection.

"Now, look here, Mr. Marlinson," said the
Sergeant, clapping him on the shoulder, a sign
of encouragement to which the landlord of the
Hoping responded to by hastily holding forth
his hands. " Nonsense ! what a noddy you're
making of yourself. I neither want to arrest
nor place the bracelets on you," answered ]mr.
Usher, in response to this gesture. '' I'm off
to town, as I said before, by the mid-day train.
IVe found something of importance here, T
don't mind admitting. I'm a candid, outspoken
man myself, never seeing any good
come of mysteries, and as all the hotel knows
it, I don't object to acknowledging it's a letter
of some consequence. If I don't tell you
more, it's only to save you knowing. This will
be all over Marlborough before evening ; allover
London by tomorrow morning. Everybody
will come to you ; they will say Mr.
Marlinson knows all about it. And you can

VOL. II. L

reply, 'Right you are, I do. Sergeant
Usher confided the whole thing to me, but,
mark you, it was in strict confidence, and my
lips are sealed.' Now, Marlinson, we understand
each other. Good-bye, and God bless
you. Send up the bill, please. I'll just put
up my traps and then I'm off''

Joe Marlinson descended to his sanctum,
the bar parlour, much mollified. Facts as personified
by Sergeant Usher had proved too
strong for him, but it had been a soothing of
his ruffled plumes to think he was the sole
confidant of that eminent officer concerning
the latest discovery bearing on the great
Bunbury murder, and it was not till many
hours after the Sergeant's departure that old
Joe thoroughly became cognizant of the fact
that he had been told nothing.

Candid very was Mr. Usher, but his
candour a little resembled the razors of the
old story that were made not to shave but to
sell. Sergeant Usher on his way to London

turns the letter over and over again ia his
mind. He has as yet made nothing out of it,
but is still firmly convinced the key to the
enigma is in his breast pocket — a key in
cipher, it is true, key of which cipher has yet
to be come by ; but that in the eyes of this
experienced tracked of crime is a mere question
of time and detail. A few weeks and he
will show who committed this murder, and
why. What perplexed him more than anything
was the complete disappearance of
Foxborough ; that they should not be able
to lay hands upon him was nothing, but after
leaving Bunbury Station he seemed to have
vanished from the face of the earth.

Evening papers must be sold, the public in
these times likes its news highly spiced, or, to
use a phrase of the day, is greedy of " intensified
intelligence." Consequently the special
editions found it necessary to continually
furnish problematic reports about Foxborouorh ;
rumours of his arrest being imminent, wild

L 2

details of this life and so on flowed freely from
Fleet Street, that great emporium of all our
latest information, and in the race of competition
it is small cause for wonder that Fleet
Street at times get a little loose in its latest
intelligence. Concerning the antecedents of
Mr. Foxborough, it was undoubtedly at variance,
as also with regard to what had become
of him, and the public were served up nightly
with what the public dearly love — fresh and
well-spiced food for speculation ; the Theatine
club being by no means sole monopolist of
romantic history concerning the fugitive.

That terrible endorser of a man's criminality,
a reward of two hundred pounds for the
apprehension of James Foxborough, now covers
the walls, especially in the vicinity of police
stations, and looms prominent in the papers.
To have a price set upon one's head may be
difficult to realize for most of us, but it cannot
be calculated to induce faith in our fellow-creatures.
It is reverting to those primitive

times when the discovery of any one or anything
on his trail made man decidedly uncomfortable,
to the days when he was as often
hunted as hunting, when the selection of the
fittest was still undetermined, and whether
our supposed ancestors, the anthropoid apes, or
the bigger cats, such as tigers, &c., became lords
of the world doubtful ; our superior intelligence
to this hour being in great measure marked
by our superior capabilities of destruction.

The more Sergeant Usher thought over that
letter the more resolved he was to keep it to
himself, as far as possible, for the present.
That it would not only be all over Bunbury,
but probably be in the papers, that important
documentary evidence had been discovered at
the Hoping, was to be looked for, but the
Sergeant felt pretty confident that except
himself and Foxborough there was no living
soul aware of the contents of that note. There
was one fact about it desirable to establish as
quickly as possible, and that was its being in

the fugitive's hand writing, and the Sergeant
felt a little puzzled as to where to go to
establish that identification. He was, however,
a man accustomed to settle such problems
rapidly, and a day or two after his return to
town betook himself to the Syringa Music -
Hall, and asked to see Mrs. Foxborough. Not
only was the Sergeant, of course, perfectly
aware that a wife could give no evidence
against her husband, but he was also essentially
a considerate man in his vocation ;
ruthless, it might be, to the professed criminal,
but in cases like the present always anxious to
spare the feelings of the unfortunate's relatives
as much as might be. The espionage kept
over Tapton Cottage by his subordinates had
made him conversant with Mrs. Foxborough's
present habits.

He knew that she went to the Syringa
no more than was absolutely necessary for
looking after the business details of that
establishment, and that her visit invariably

took place in the morning, still he asked
for Mrs. Foxborough to make quite certain
she was not there. Informed of that fact,
he demanded to see Mr. Slant, the stage-manager,
and was forthwith informed out of
hand that gentleman was engaged, and could
see nobody.

*' Just so, my flippant young friend," rejoined
the Sergeant, drily ; '* but take that
note round to him, and you'll find he'll seeme,
and mind if he don't get it pretty
sharp, and happens to hear by post I called
this evening, he'll see you, my chick, tomorrow,
and you'll find the interview more
lively than agreeable."

The quiet consciousness of power with
which the Sergeant delivered his speech somewhat
overawed the young gentleman in the
ticket-office, and he condescended to despatch
a myrmidon with the note. It contained
nothing but the Sergeant's official card —

Sergeant Silas Usher,
Criminal Investigation Department,
Scotland Yard,
with pencilled at the bottom, " desires to see
you as soon as possible." Mr. Slant knows
that the law is not to be coquetted with,
and is, moreover, smitten with that curiosity
respecting the Bunbury murder which has
already laid such violent hold upon the public.
"Ask the gentleman to step this way at
once," is his prompt response. He welcomes
Mr. Usher cordially ; to stand well with police
officials is matter of policy with all places
of public entertainment, but essentially when
your licence depends on that incomprehensible
body the Middlesex magistrates, the why
or wherefore of whose decisions defy forecast
or scrutiny.

Take a chair, Mr. Usher. You've come
no doubt about something connected with this
terrible business down at Bunbury with which
our 'boss' is unhappily mixed up. Kindhearted

man, Mr. Usher, and I can't believe
it of him, although we didn't see much of
him here."

This was mere looseness of expression on
Mr. Slant's part, and was not to be taken as
laying down the argument that attendance
at music-halls strengthens one against an
infringement of the sixth commandment.

It's cut up the Mistress terrible ;; a bright,
cheerful woman she is naturally, with a merry
word and good-natured smile for every one ;
kind-hearted, too, with any of them here as
gets into trouble, and we've lazy glimmers
amongst us who impose on her not a little,
and would more, business woman as she is,
if I didn't interfere a bit. But what is it
you want ? "

"Do you know James Foxborough's signature
when you see it ? " inquired the
Sergeant, curtly.

Certainly, I have seen it many times,
although the cheques are more often signed

by Mrs. Foxborough. They bank at the
London and Westminster ; whether they've
separate accounts or not I can't say."

Very good, now," said Mr. Usher, taking
an envelope from his breast-pocket, and producing
therefrom a paper peculiarly folded
and laying it on the table ; "is that James
Foxborouo^h's sho-nature ? "

Nothing of the epistle but the subscriber's
name was visible.

Mr. Slant looked at it for an instant and
then replied, " I should say undoubtedly not."

Feel pretty positive, I suppose ? " observed
the Sergeant with a slight interrogatory elevation
of his eyebrows.

Yes," replied the stage-manager, " I don't
believe that to be signed by James Fox-borough.
Take it to the London and Westminster
Bank and see what they think of it.
Is that a document of supposed importance ? "

Dear me, no," rejoined candid Mr. Usher,
"no bearing upon the case. I should fancy

Done whatever ; might have had, though, undoubtedly
if it had been proved genuine. Ita
mere plant I dare say. Bless you, we always
encounter bits of fun on these occasions, more
from mere mischief than any attempt of the
accused's friend to mislead us. Good night,
Mr. Slant. I hope this unfortunate affair
has not interfered with the fortunes of the
Syringa."

It seems a cruel thing to say, Sergeant,
but it's a fact all the same. We've never
done such business. The murder seems to
have been the most tremendous advertisement
we ever had. What the deuce they come
for it's impossible to say. They can hardly
expect Foxborough, with £200 offered for his
apprehension, to appear, and it is not very
likely his wife, poor thing, would do so either
under the circumstances ; but they come, Mr.
Usher, as if," continued the stage-manager,
dropping his voice, "we were doing the
murder here nightly.

"I can quite Understand it. Mark me,"
repeated the Sergeant, " in a big criminal case
we could always let the whole court off installs
at two guineas a-piece easy. Yes, we've
put down cock-fighting and prize-fighting, but
the taste exists, only it takes another form of
gratifying itself. Good night."

The bull at the stake, the captive before
the lion, the murderer at bay in the dock,
there is much similarity in all these, and
Imperial London, despite all our brag of
civilization, seems to have much the tastes
of Imperial Some. Sergeant Usher, as he
wended his way to Spring Gardens, was lost
in deepest cogitation. He had treated Mr.
Slant's non-recognition of James Foxborough's
signature as a thing of no consequence, and
for which he was quite prepared ; but, in
reality, he had never been much more astonished.
That this identical note was what
took Fossdyke to Bunbury he'd no doubt.
If Foxborough did not write it, who on earth

did ? Was there somebody else mixed up in
the business ? It evidently was going to be,
as he had first suspected, a more complicated
affair than it appeared. He would submit
that signature to the London and Westminster
Bank, but he had little doubt that Mr. Slant's
opinion would be confirmed.

CHAPTER VII.

John Fossdyke's Affairs.

How are you, Doctor ? " said Phil Soames,
as he made his way into the familiar sanctum
to which he had been a privileged intruder
for many a year.

Ah, Phil ! " exclaimed Dr. Inglebyby, looking
up from a mass of papers with which he
was apparently wrestling, *' I am very glad
to see you. I suppose there is no fresh news
about this terrible business."

'none. Foxborough is either lying concealed
in London, or has fled the country, I
should imagine. At all events there is no
news of him whatever. The police seem
baffled at present. Turn me out if I am
interrupting you."

Not a bit ; glad to see you, whatever
brings you."

*' Well, I called chiefly to ask after poor
Mrs. Fossdyke and Miss Hyde. Of course
I've left my card and inquired at Dyke ; but
I have seen nobody, and you, probably, have
seen them."

"Yes," replied the Doctor, 'rand Mrs.
Fossdyke, now that she has got over the
first shock, bears it better than I anticipated.
Miss Hyde, I think, seems the more
thoroughly upset of the two. By the
way, I used to fancy, Phil, you were a
little sweet in that quarter," and here
Doctor Inglebyby eyed his companion somewhat
keenly.

I not only was but am," replied the young
man, doggedly.

Ah, then, perhaps, it is just as well you
should hear what I have to tell you. Bessie
Hyde is a sweet girl, and much too good to
be made a fool of."

*' You needn't tell me that," interrupted
Phil, somewhat roughly.

*' Ah, but you probably have mistaken
ideas regarding her. Firstly, that she is the
adopted daughter of the Fossdykes."

I am under no mistaken impression of
that nature," rejoined Phil, slowly. ^' I asked
her to marry me some time back. She was
very careful to disabuse my mind on that
point then, and told me she was nothing but
Mrs. Fossdyke's paid companion."

"And What, pray, was the result of that
conversation ? "

She declined the honour," replied Phil,
saying there where unsurmountable obstacles,
that unless she could tell me the story of her
past life, it was impossible ; that she had not
the courage to do that ; and finally, though
she didn't exactly say so, gave me to understand
poor Fossdyke was acquainted with her
whole history."

Curious," said Dr. Inglebyby, as he called to

mind Sergeant Usher's dictum, that Miss
Hyde could probably throw light upon this
mysterious affair if she would tell what she
knew about James Foxborough, little as she
might think it. " Still, Phil, there is one
thing more you had better know. You may
fancy that Miss Hyde, although not nominally
an adopted daughter, is likely to succeed
eventually to the bulk of what John Fossdyke
has left?"

I have never thought about it," replied
Philip, quietly.

Well, it will come rather as a surprise to
Marlborough, but as one of his executors I
have of course been looking into his affairs
now the funeral is over, and it looks to me
very much as if he has left very little indeed
behind him. I can't understand it, and we
haven't quite got to the bottom of things yet,
but it looks to me as if even the bis^o^est half
of Mrs. Fossdyke's fortune has disappeared.
I am afraid she will be found to have been left

VOL. II. JI

very poorly off. That she will have to give
"up Dyke, and either sell it or let it, is I think
certain."

You do amaze me," rejoined Soames.
"Not that it makes the slightest difference
to me. I mean to marry Bessie if I can,
and don't expect her to bring me anything,
but I am very sorry indeed for Mrs.
Fossdyke ; giving up Dyke will come very
hard upon her. Do you think I might
venture to call ? "

Yes, clo, it will do them good ; rouse
them up a bit, especially Miss Hyde. You
evidently don't deem her answer conclusive,
and putting money considerations on
one side, you will be a lucky fellow, Phil,
if you win her. She's a special favourite of
mine."

'' I have got her mysterious past to get at
first. I don't believe the bugbear she
torments herself with to be of the slightest
consequence in reality ; but to discover it is

the difficulty. I shall say good-bye for the
present, and walk out to Dyke."

Arrived there at the expiration of half-an-hour,
Philip sent in his name, and hoped the
ladies would see him. Poor Mrs. Fossdyke
looked very sad in her sombre draperies, and
evidently felt her loss acutely ; the remembrance
that she had not been quite as good a
wife to him who was gone as she might have
been of late was a subject of bitter regret, and
she thought ruefully over that passage of arms
on the subject of Bessie Hyde, which had been
in truth the severest quarrel of her married
life. She had done her best to make up for
it, but felt her husband had never been quite
the same man afterwards. He had always
worn an absent, preoccupied look, as if worried
with business cares or difficulties. Her penitence
for that momentary abandoning of
herself to her godfather's insidious counsel
had made her marvellously tender to Bessie
ever since. Fond of the girl she had always

M 2

been, and it was nothing but curiosity concerning:
lier antecedents, fanned into a flame
by the irrepressible Totterdell, that had led
her to play the part she had. Since her
husband's death she and Bessie sorrowed for
him together, and the girl had become inexpressibly
dear to her.

She rose with a faint smile to welcome
Philip.

You were always such a favourite with
dear John," she said as they shook hands.
It would have been hard to lose him at anytime,
but that he should come to such a
violent death is too dreadful."

I am sure the whole town and country
sympathize with you in your terrible trial,
Mrs. Fossdyke, and the most heartfelt regret
and pity is everywhere expressed for your poor
husband's sad fate," replied Phil ; and then he
turned and greeted Miss Hyde.

Bessie looked very pale, and her lip shook
a little as she faltered forth her welcome.

Then Mrs. Fossdyke began to tell Philip of
her plans for the future. " I mean to go
away," she said, "in about a fortnight, to
some quiet, seaside place — change will be
good for both of us ; everything here reminds
us of all we have gone through lately, and him
who has gone. I have never dared to look
into the study since that evening when I
came and found you with Bessie, and little
dreamt what you had come over to break
to us''

"Saddest errand ever I was sent upon, but
I deemed it best you should not be left to learn
such awful intelligence by accident ; and news
of that kind spreads like wild-fire."

Both you and Dr. Inglebyby were everything
that was kind and considerate ; indeed,
everybody has been that."

I hope we have all done what little we
could, but then it is so little. I trust they
may not trouble you much on the trial, but it
is possible, Mrs. Fossdyke, remember, that your

evidence will be deemed necessary. I mention
this now so that you may accustom yourself to
the idea."

"They have apprehended ]mr. Foxborough?"
then asked Bessie anxiously .

No," replied Soames, " so far, I believe, the
police have no trace of him whatever."

I could almost hope they might not find
him," now observed sirs. Fossdyke in a low
voice, " nothing can give me my John back
airain, and I confess I dread the idea of

apple

arino- in a court of law."

o

You may rest quite assured that you will
be spared all possible pain, and be treated with
the greatest consideration, and you also. Miss
Hyde."

They cannot possibly want to question
me," exclaimed Bessie. " I can tell them
nothing."

"It is quite open to question whether they
will require either of you ; at all events, the
criminal is not caught as yet," said Soames,

rising. " Will you walk with me as far as the
gate, Miss Hyde ? A little fresh air would do
you good, I'm sure."

For a few seconds Bessie hesitated, and poor
Mrs. Fossdyke faltered out, " You've nothing
dreadful to tell to-night surely, Mr. Soames ?
If so, let me hear it at once."

"Nothing, I assure you. I can say all I
have to say here if Miss Hyde wishes."

"I will walk with you to the gate," interposed
Bessie hastily. "I'll. run and get my
hat."

Phil Soames wished Mrs. Fossdyke goodbye,
and in another minute he and Miss Hyde
were strolling slowly down the drive. Bessie
looked very handsome in her dark robes ;
mourning suits a brunette invariably, and the
trouble of the last few days had thrown a
languor around her brilliant beauty that was
infinitely bewitching.

'' I want to know if you are still resolute
not to tell me what it is stands between us ?

You pretty well know poor Fossclykc meant
to have done so. Be generous, Bessie ; I love
you so clearly that I ought to be allowed to
judge whether the obstacle you talk of is
insurmountable."

More so, Philip, than ever," replied the
girl, turning away her head.

Do you mean that poor Fossdyke's death
has still further increased the impediment ? "

Yes. Philip, you must think of me no
more. I have walked down here with you
on purpose to say this in common justice to
you, to again thank you for the honour you
have done me, and to tell you that though
I acknowledge you have won my heart, my
giving myself to 'yon is now more impossible
than ever ! "

Will you let Mrs. Fossdyke be judge ? "

Great heavens, no ! She of all women
must never know my story now''

Would you let Dr. Inglebyby judge between
us ? "

No ! I tell you, Philip, we must part.
Good-bye and God bless you," and with a
quick little nod, Bessie turned abruptly and
sped back to the house.

CHAPTER Viii.

'' KISSES AND CONSOLATION."

Herbert Morantt snatched something to
eat after the inquest was concluded, and
made his way to London by the same train
as Sergeant Usher. He had noticed him
at the Hoping, and again on the platform,
but had no idea of who he was. Phil Soames
didn't know the detective by sight, neither
did Ellen Maitland, and with the exception
of Dr. Inglebyby, to whom Phil had introduced
him, those were the sole acquaintances that
Herbert had in Marlborough ; the Doctor
in his worldly wisdom thought it best to
make no parade of his acquaintance with
Mr. Usher, and raised himself considerably

in the Sergeant's estimation by such laudable
reticence.

Arrived in town, Morantt took Ellen under
his charge, put her into a cab, and, jumping
in beside her, drove out to Tapton Cottage.
Mrs. Foxborough herself opened the door to
them, and though she carried herself bravely,
there was a slight quiver about the mouth
and fidgety nervousness in her manner that
betrayed her extreme anxiety. She was a
proud, passionate woman, with all the
immense self - controlled power that such
women invariably possess up to a certain
point, but who, when the barrier of their
pride once breaks down, are reckless of all
considerations but their own wild impulses.

Go down, Ellen, at once, and get something
to eat. I'm sure, poor girl, it's been
a hard day for you as for us. No, don't
protest, and don't cry. I know very well
you wouldn't say one syllable against me
or mine if you could help it. Go now."

But, Missus," said the girl, half sobbing,
they made me say I'd see the dagger
before. I was obliged to do it ; indeed 1
was."

Mrs. Foxborough gave a slight start, but
mastering herself by a strong effort said,
quietly, '' You were obliged to tell the truth,
Ellen, of course. Til hear your story tomorrow.
Go, now, get your supper and then
be off to bed as soon as they will let you."

Mrs. Foxborough knew too well that the
cook and her own maid had to have their
curiosity satisfied before Ellen would be
permitted to seek her chamber.

Now, Mr. Morantt," she continued, " come
into the drawing-room and tell us all. I
say us, for Nid insists upon knowing everything.
She says suspense is the least endurable
form' of agony, and I think she is perhaps
right ; at all events it is useless to keep her
in ignorance, poor child, any longer. She
claims her right to share our great sorrow,

and as I cannot spare it lier, I feel I have no
longer the right to refuse. I tell you that,
Mr. Morantt, in order that you may feel no
reticence in speaking before her."

As she finished they entered the drawing-room,
and Nid springing from a low chair
by the table, exclaimed eagerly, *' Oh ! Herbert,
what have you to tell us? Mamma wouldn't
let me come to the door with her, but I am to
hear everything, everything."

'* Mr. Morantt has been told that, darling.
Sit down and try to bear his tidings as
bravely as you can," replied Mrs. Foxborough.

I bring no good news for you, I am sorry
to say, but rest satisfied, I am going to tell
you the whole truth — it would be useless todo
otherwise, for every paper will contain
the whole story tomorrow morning, and the
later evening; ones have most of it to-niorht.
It is a verdict against your husband to its
fullest extent, but mind, though the evidence
was perhaps enough to warrant that to a

coroner's jury, the facts against him are
curiously slight."

Mrs. Foxborough leant against the mantelpiece
as a slight shiver ran through her
frame, but her head kept its habitual proud
pose, and she looked Morantt steadily in the
face. As for Nid, she cowered in her chair,
listening to the narrative with flushed cheeks
and tearful lashes, looking like a crushed
flower in her abandon.

*your husband's extraordinary absence!
The fact that he asked Mr. Fossdyke to dinner,
and was recognized by him under the name
of Foxborough, and — and "

Here for the life of him Herbert could not
master a choking sensation in his throat, ashe
looked upon the two sorely-tried women
before him.

Go on, quick," exclaimed Mrs. Foxborough,
in a low tone.

"And," continued Herbert, "the singular
coincidence that the weapon with which

Fossdyke was slain was either that dagger
which I've often played with in this very
room, or its exact counterpart, constitutes the
whole evidence against him."

That Eastern poignard, the one he used
as a paper knife, why if it isn't here it must be
in James's own room," cried Mrs. Foxborough,
as she glanced nervously round the tables.
** Quick, Nid, get a light, child, and let's
find it.'

Stop, please, for one moment," cried
Morantt. " Ellen was obliged to confess she
did not remember seeing it the last week
or so, though she could not say that she
had missed it ; but she, like me, recognized
the dagger produced. Dear Mrs. Foxborough,
this has been a cruel, trying day to you.
Take my advice, and endeavour to get a
good night's rest, and search for that dagger
tomorrow."

A good night's rest," she rejoined, almost
contemptuously, " do you suppose I have

known that since this horrible charge against
my husband was first bruited abroad."

^' I fear not," he murmured, struck even
as she spoke with the ravages the last few
days had worked in her handsome face.

No, nor do you suppose I can sleep tonight
till I have sought the house through
for that miserable toy. I should be false to
my dear husband if I failed in anything that
might aid him in his need. Good night, Mr.
Morantt, you have been a loyal friend to us
this day ; " and Mrs. Foxborough extended
her hand. " Come and see us again soon."

Good night," replied Herbert, clasping
it warmly ; and then turning to Nid, who
had risen to bid him farewell, he folded her
suddenly in his arms and imprinted a w^arni
kiss upon her lips. " I claim her for weal
and woe, Mrs. Foxborough," he said apologetically,
'' and shall never believe, let them
prove what they will, that if Fos^dyke
unfortunately did meet his fate at your

husband's hands, it was anything other than
the reside of a sudden and quite unpremeditated
quarrel."

'' Bless you for that, Mr. Morantt," exclaimed
Mrs. Foxborou2:h, as her face flashed with
pleasure at the young man's loyal suggestion.
** Nid is not likely to think v\^orse of you
for the way you stand by us in our troubles.
Once more, good nights' and with another
pressure of the hand from his hostess, and
a kiss blown to him by Nid, Herbert Morantt
was dismissed.

He mused a good deal as he made his
way home over this incomprehensible murder.
There were plenty of others fascinated by
the attractions of a f^reat crime, who, though
having nothing but an abstract interest in
it, were quite as much absorbed in speculation
concerning it as Morantt could be. His remark
to Mrs. Foxborough was significant that his
faith was in some measure shaken in Fox-borough's
innocence. It would have been

VOL. II. X

noted by a close observer that though ]\Iorant
still staunchly refused to admit that the
luckless lessee of the Syringa was a murderer,
he conceded the fact that he mig^lit have
been guilty of manslaughter. To his mind
that dagger was conclusive evidence ; he knew
the toy so well, he had fiddled with it too
often in the drawing-room at Tapton Cottage
to feel any doubt about its identity, and
how could it be in the hands of any one
else but Foxborough, and was it not conclusively
shown that Foxborough was the man
who had asked John Fossdyke to dinner
and with whom he had dined.

Morantt, though he had been called to
the Bar, had never studied law nor that
preliminary the law of evidence. His conclusions
were precisely those to which a
considerable portion of the public had equally
arrived, although a numerous section held
to the theory of truculent, deliberate, cold-blooded
assassination. In cases of this kind

the culprit is tried nightly at the clubs
according to the evidence in the evening
papers, and though '' the sports of the
Coliseum " would be deemed accursed of
modern society, yet gambling on a man's
life has always its votaries, and there is
usually some wagering on the verdict when
a great criminal is on his trial.

Then Morantt's thoughts took another turn,
and he thought how pretty Nid had looked
in her blushes and confusion at his sudden
embrace, and he vowed, happen what might,
he'd be staunch to the girl, let what maybe
her father's fate ; even if he had the
misfortune to be shriven at the foot of the
leafless tree. What a terrible business this
murder was ! Here was poor old Phil Soames
all upset ; not only were Herbert's fiancee
and her mother sufferings agonies reflection
to some extent upon him, but all his schemes
for a start in the world were left in abeyance,
and yet Herbert knew that starting late

ill life, as he was, there was no time to be
lost in beginnings. His love for Nid had
transformed this man. For the first time
in his life he was anxious to be up and doing ;
he, who had always pitied the getting up
and derided the doing of most people — and
undoubtedly it was the lot of many of his
associates who rose early to do so of compulsion
and to very little purpose — was most
anxious to buckle to hard work on his own
account. But he was bound to wait ; without
Phil Soames' advice he could not see in what
direction to make a start, and there was one
consolation in the mean time, that Mrs. Fox-borough
and Nid really did at present require
his advice and assistance in some measure.
They had told him they should be always
dad to see him in their troubles, and there
was no doubt that he could bring them
intelligence it would be difficult for them
in their retirement to come by. That a man
desperately in love, and also moved to the

sincerest pity for the family of the lady of
his adoration in their sorrow, should feel it
his duty to console and comfort may be
easily understood, and so despite that inward
prompting that it behoved him to bend his
neck to the yoke without more delay, Herbert
Morantt reconciled himself to the decrees of
fate, and resolved to take care as far as he
could of Nid and her mother for the present.

During the next week the papers were
rife with reports of the usual imbecilities that
invariably follow upon the commission of a
great crime. Provincial constables arrest
harmless individuals moving about in pursuance
of their usual avocations upon no
grounds whatever but that they are strangers,
and that in the eyes of the rural police their
ways, like those of the heathen Chinee, are
peculiar. The average number of good-for-nothing
inebriates becoming dimly conscious
that they have forfeited all right of existence,
in moments of deep despondency give themselves

up as the murderer of John Fossdyke,
and having had sobriety shaken into them by
enforced abstinence and ammonia, whining
plead drunken ignorance of what they had
been talking about. Scotland Yard is inundated
with senseless letters, and newcomers
in suburban neighbourhoods find the neighbourhood's
eye emphatically upon them.
Scotland Yard, as personified by Sergeant
Usher, keeps its own counsel, and that
illustrious individual in bursts of unwonted
candour confides to himself that " it's a
rum un."

Every day does Herbert make his way
out to Tapton Cottage, and that there he
is warmly welcomed by Mrs. Foxborough
and Nid may be easily imagined. That he
is looked upon as engaged to the latter now, is
matter of course, even Mrs, Foxborough no
looser affects to treat it as an arrangement of
the future, whatever the marriage may be ; but
Herbert cannot help noticing how this terrible

suspense is telling on Mrs. Foxborough. The
defiant handsome face begins to look sadly
worn, and even a silver thread or two is
visible in the rich chestnut tresses. Not much
to be wondered at, when one remembers
this woman loves her husband very dearly,
and sees no way of rebutting the terrible
crime laid to his charge. She has had no
word of him for weeks ; that is nothing, she
is used to that. She has often before been
as long: without hearing; from him, but then
this is different. If alive and in England,
it is impossible he can be ignorant of the
terrible accusation against him, of that
dreadful verdict — Wilful murder. Absurd in
these days of papers perpetual, of telegrams,
and of instantaneous diffusion of news, real,
false, or mixed, what might be termed half-and-half
or embellished facts ; absurd to
suppose a man could possibly be ignorant
of such a charge hano^ins: over him, and
gradually Mrs. Foxborough, who scoffed at

any idea of her husband's guilt, had arrived
at the conclusion that he also had come to an
untimely end. She pretended to give no
explanation of the Bunbury tragedy, but she
remarked sadly to Herbert, " If my husband
were alive he would come forward at once
to confute this miserable accusation, I tell
you. Wei], if that is not so, how is it the
police cannot find him ? I feel certain that
he is dead ? I cannot tell you why — one
can never account for a presentiment, but
I feel that he is dead. How ? where ? why ?
I can no more attempt to explain than who
it was that killed poor Mr. Fossdyke, but
that all this will be unfolded in due course
I entertain no doubt."

*' I am getting dreadfully unhappy about
mamma," said Nid, one afternoon, when Mrs.
Foxborouoh had retired to her own room,
and left the young people in undisputed
possession of the drawing-room, " She suffers
terribly. She keeps up and wears a plucky

face and undaunted front to the world
generally, but oh ! Herbert, she breaks down
terribly at night ! T hear her pacing up
and down her room like a wild thing, and
the other night I stole down upon her. She
turned upon me quite fierce, asked what I
was doing up at that hour, and ordered me
peremptorily to bed. But I wasn't going
"to have that, you know; and so I just dashed
at her, got my arms round her neck, and
in two minutes we were both crying our
eyes out."

'' Of course, Herbert, as a mere man, you
can't understand what that is, to us women.
The relief, the luxury it is ! Bad for both of
us it is, of course. I love my poor father very
dearly, but, Herbert, you have taught me to
understand how a wife loves her husband, and
I know now what my love for my father is as
compared with mother s. I feel ashamed of it.
Yes, sir, literally ashamed at this minute to
think what you are to me when my father,

who I dearly love, is under such a terrible
accusation. I never saw much of him, no
doubt. I've been at school a o-ood deal, you
see ; and then since my emancipation, father
has been a good bit away ; but, whenever he
was here, no father could have been kinder.
Nothing was ever too good for mother and
me. If I hadn't a chariot and four and robes
of gold brocade, it was because mother curbed
his too lavish hand. I can never believe him
guilty of what they allege, Herbert ; but, as I
said before, the whole elinor is killing: mother.
Can't you see it in her face ? "

Only too well, Nid, dearest ; it's sad to
see the work the last two or three weeks have
wrought in your mother's handsome face, but
what are we to do. You know well, and I
think Mrs. Foxborough does also, there is
nothing within my power that I would not do
to aid her in this her hour of trial, but, Nid, weare
helpless, we can at present but wait the
course of events."

'' No, I suppose we can do no more, but I
am sure, Herbert, that anything that can be
done you will do," whispered Nid, with all
that grand belief in her lover incidental to
girls in the first stage of love's young dream.
As married women, sad to say, they have
not that magnificent belief in our omniscience
and capabilities ; they have discovered weare
pretty much as foolish as our neighbours,
get into quite our average of scrapes, and
show no peculiar aptitude for getting out of
the most part of them ; extricating ourselves
for the most part in most prosaic and commonplace
fashion.

Good-bye, Nid, dearest," said Morantt, ashe
once more clasped his betrothed to his
breast. " I shall, of course, come out everyday,
if it is only to tell you that there is no
news, and that as far as the public are
concerned is just what is the state of the case
at present. Whether the police know more
I can't say, but your mother's theory that

ber husband, bke John Fossdyke, bas been
foully dealt with, would I fancy rather startle
them, and yet if your father is alive it seems
unaccountable they cannot bear of bim."

Nid's reply was brief, and of the kind
interesting only to the recipient.

CHAPTER IX.

MR. Stilton IS CONSCIENCE STRICKEN.

We have already seen that Mr. Sturton was
entangled in the mysterious fascination that is
apt to surround a great crime. It had taken
him down to Bunbury so that he might be
present at the inquest, and from that time he
had experienced a feverish anxiety to hear of
James Foxborough's arrest, not that he had
aDy violent animosity to the criminal, but
that he was morbidly desirous of seeing the
riddle of this murder unravelled. iVlthongh
he had through Cudemore lent money to Fox-borough,
he had never seen him, and Mr.
Sturton was at the present much disturbed in
his mind about this very loan. It was not

that he was anxious about his money ; he had
very fair security for that, but he debated
very much with himself, whether it was not
his duty to acquaint the police with the fact
of Foxborough being in possession of so large
a sum of money.

The days slipped by, and still the papers
contained no clue to what they had tacitly
agreed to call the Bunbury mystery. The
public had certainly got no further intelligence
since the incest, and the general belief Alas
that Foxborough had effected his escape from
the country, and fled either to America or
Spain. Time whole affair seemed at a deadlock,
and with the exception, perhaps, of
Serjeant Usher, nobody had much idea that
the culprit would ever be brought to justice.
The Sergeant was, as we know, in possession
of a little bit of evidence about which the
world knew nothing, and pondering over that
note in his lodgings in Spring Gardens Mr.
Usher muttered more than once, " Whenever

I can read this aright I shall know all about
the Banbury murder. It miojht be Arabic
or Chinese for all I can make of it at
present, but just as one learns foreign
lano^uao^es after a bit, so I shall understand
this note. One thing is clear already, if
Foxborouo^h was the murderer he had a
confederate."

Mr. Sturton at last made up his mind to
communicate with the police, but previous
to doings so thought it might be as well too

o o

talk the thing over with Mr. Cudemore. He
had a suspicion that gentleman would be
very much opposed to either the police or
any one else being acquainted with his money-lending
transactions ; still Mr. Sturton, for
all his languid and somewhat affected manner,
was quite capable of taking his own line, and
was little likely to be overruled by Cudemore,
whom he always treated as a subordinate ;
finding him capital at times, throwing business
into his way no doubt, but always assuming

the position of the big capitalist. Cudemore,
indeed, like many ostensible money-lenders,
was dependent in considerable measure upon
bigger men than himself, and Mi Sturton
was his great patron. Very handy, indeed,
also to Scotland Yard for the reporting of
his little bit of intelligence was Mr. Cude-
more's residence, reflected Mr. Sturton.

The thing had to be discussed with that
gentleman as a matter of detail, but that
he would communicate with the police, Mr.
Sturton had quite made up his mind. That
the famous Sergeant Usher was living within
a few doors of Mr. Cudemore, and habitually
had his meals at the Wellington Restaurant,
would have startled mr. Sturton not a little.
Still more would it have surprised Mr.
Cudemore that his junior clerk was aware
of this fact, that he habitually lunched at
the same restaurant, and spent his whole time
staring at the eminent detective. Of course,
Sero^eant Usher knew all about him, the clerk ;

he did that from sheer habit. To what he
called " reckon up " all those with whom he
came in contact had become second nature
to him, and therefore with no earthly motive
he had learnt all about Mr. Cudemore's clerk.
In similar fashion he, with no particular
reason, had acquired a general knowledge
of Mr. Cudemore and his pursuits ; quite
promiscuously, be it understood. It was
information picked up in the way that a
man trained to take note of everything that
takes place around him would almost imperceptibly
acquire of any one living in his
vicinity Of course he had put a question
here and there. Men like Sergeant Usher
cannot for the life of them resist donor that.
They have, and they're very little account
in their profession unless they do have, an
insatiable thirst for information about everyone.
They should always regard it as possible
they may want to know all about a man, and
Sergeant Usher pursued an inquiry of this

VOL. II. o

description mechanically, and without any
definite aim. Still it would have astonished
Mr. Cudemore not a little to know that one
of the crack detectives of " The Yard " was
living within a few doors of him, and had
more than a general idea of his (Cudemore's)
business. There was nothing about Mr.
Cudemore's business that might cause him
to fear the interposition of the police, and
yet at the same time they were just the sort
of transactions that men desired secrecy
about. Men driven to borrow money don't,
as a rule, wish the fact advertised ; there is
a tou(di of the Spartan boy with the fox
beneath his cloak about the process, they
prefer to bleed inwardly, and that the hemorrhage
is severe and exhausting, let those
who have painfully gone through the ordeal
testify.

Mr. Sturton, upon presenting himself in
Spring Gardens, is speedily ushered up-stairs.
The clerks know him, and are quite aware

that lie is a visitor by no means to be kept
waiting. They have, perhaps, rather hazy
ideas of what his actual relations with their
master may be, but they know Mr. Cudemore
is always at home to ]\lr. Sturton.

The great sartorial artist salutes his confederate
in his usual affected languid manner,
correctly copied from one of his most blase
customers, who generally orders his coats,
&C., by the half-score, and whose superb
nonchalance is the subject of Mr. Star ton's
unbounded admiration.

"Delighted to see you," exclaimed Mr.
Cudemore, as he shook hands, and then proceeded
to roll an easy-chair to the fire for the
accommodation of his guest. "I suppose it is
business of some sort to which I am indebted
for the pleasure of seeing you''

'' lyell, yes, it is. I want to have a talk
with you about that money we advanced to
James Foxboroug^h. You see, we're so to
speak mixed up in this Bunbury murder."



Good heavens ! Don't talk in that way,"
rejoined Cudemore. "We cant be held responsible
for the future career of every man we
lend money to. Besides, as I always told you,
the security is good enough, and if you don't
like it I can manage to take up your share of
the loan."

*not at all, that's not it," interposed Mr.
Sturton. '' I know the Syringa Music Hall into
be found, although Foxborough isn't, and
what is more, I don't think he ever will be
now. I take it he's got clean out of the
country. But I think we ought to let the
police know that he is in possession of that big
sum of money."

"I object to that altogether," exclaimed
Cudemore, vehemently. "^o money-lender
makes a confidant of the police ; besides, what
is the use of it ? According to your own
view the man has fled the country. It won't
further the ends of justice or in the least contribute
to his apprehension to publish the fact

that his pockets are full of money. Besides,
ours is a profession' he continued with a
sneer, "that does good by stealth. The
advances we make at heavy percentage we
don't publish on the house-tops ; in fact it is
a calling we don't usually talk about. As for
you, I should have imagined that you had
every reason for not letting the world know
that you traded on its necessities."

You are right, Cudemore," rejoined the
other. " I don't particularly want the public
to know that I do a quiet and tolerably
lucrative business here with you. Sending a
man the money to pay yourself don't sound a
profitable transaction to the uninitiated, but
let him only have tolerable prospects, and ita
very tidy game. But, remember this, it
doesn't at all follow my name is to appear.
The information may be of use to the police,
or it may not ; at all events, there is no
reason for making the thing public."

And don't you think the police will want

to know why you didn't come forward with
your information before ? " retorted Cudemore,
spitefully. " They well may, as it is past my
comprehension. If you are bent upon advertising
yourself as a money-lender, and in
connection with the Bunbury murder, it seems
singular that you should have put it off for so
long."

I tell you there's no necessity whatever for
the appearance of our names," replied Mr.
Sturton quietly. 'any way, I have made
up my mind to give that much information
to the police, and it is for them to make use
of it if they can."

''I tell you, again, that I strongly object to
your doing so," exclaimed Cudemore, vehemently.
" Look here, if this is a matter of
money, I'll, as I said before, find your share
of the loan in a few days. It will be then
altogether my affair, and you will be absolved
from all conscientious scruples."

I tell you that it is nothing of that sort,

once more. I am not in the least uneasy
about my money, but I consider the police
ought to be informed of Foxborough having
this sum in his possession, and I intend they
shall."

'rand once more I protest against your
doing anything of the sort. You've no right
to compromise me' said Mr. Cudemore
irritably.

All right, I won't ; FU make it appear
that I found the money in conjunction with
others, and who the others are need not
transpire. I can't for the life of me see what
you are raising such a pother about"

I tell 3'ou I don't want the police interfering
with my private affairs," rejoined Mr.
Cudemore, doggedly.

"I'll argue the thing no longer, but
remember I shall do what I have made up
my mind to do as soon as I leave these
rooms."

Mr. Cudemore shot a most malignant glance

at his companion, a glance that augured ill for
Mr. Sturton's well-being, should it ever depend
on the money-lender's good wishes, but he
made no further reply. He knew from experience
that Sturton was placidly immoveable
when he had once determined on anything.
He would discuss it in his usual languid
fashion as long as you liked, but invariably
remained of precisely the same option.
He was a man of much cjuiet tenacity
of purpose, and, a thing Cudemore had
yet to learn, opposition only strengthened
him in his determination whatever it might
be.

So young Morantt paid up. I never expected
that of him. I thought he was certain
to renew."

No, the young gentleman has fallen in
love and turned over a fresh leaf; he's paid off
his tradesmen and done T\^th all transactions
involving stamped paper. The fool thinks
that having spent the best part of what money

lie had, the remainder will go further if there
are two people to keep instead of one."

"Why, who does he want to marry?"
asked Sturton.

Miss Foxborough."

*' But that is a marriage I think will probably
not come oj0f, as I understand," said
Mr. Sturton, carelessly, " you are interested in
preventing it. Well," he continued rising,
I wish you every success, and, in the meantime,
good-bye."

And are you going across to Scotland
Yard?"

*' Undoubtedly, but don't disturb yourself,
your name will not appear," and so saying Mr.
Sturton took his departure.

True to his word, the Bond-street maestro
made his way across to the police headquarters,
and briefly explained his errand.
He was requested to sit down and wait a few
minutes while they sent for the officer in
charge of the case. Sergeant Usher was

speedily on the spot, and no little pleased at
the idea of receiving any fresh information
bearing upon the Bunbury mystery. He was
perhaps the one officer who was still confident
of unravelling the tangle. Utterly nonplussed
just at present he would admit, but he stuck
to it he had a clue whenever he had learnt how
to use it. He felt he had got the signal book,
but had yet to learn how to read the flags.

He listened attentively to Mr. Sturton's
statement, merely remarking that it was
singular that Mr. Foxborough should borrow
so large a sum without having some definite
object in view. Did Mr. Sturton know at
all for what purpose it was required. No.
Curious, six thousand pounds is a good deal
of money to raise to carry about as pocket-money.
He was very much obliged to Mr.
Sturton for the information, which might very
possibly turn out of great value. Mr. Sturton's
name in the papers ? Certainly not. This
fact would rest between them; indeed, far

from wishing to publish it, he, Sergeant Usher,
would have asked Mr. Sturton as a particular
favour not to mention it to any one, and so
the Sergeant politely bowed his visitor out,
and went home to ruminate on this last bit of
information.

CHAPTER X.

Sergeant Usher at Fault.

Sergeant Usher did not commit himself
much before Mr. Sturton, but when he got
back to his own fireside he sat down and
smoked a perfect succession of meditative
pipes over this new feature in the case.
What on earth had Foxborough wanted so
large a sum of money as that for ? Was it
that having raised all the money he could
command he then went in to wreak his
vengeance on the man with whom he had
an implacable feud, and, his victim done to
death, made his way precipitately to the
nearest seaport, and from thence to foreign
parts ? No, Mr. Usher was not inclined to

accept that solution of the case, and another
thing that puzzled the Sergeant not a little
was the curious fact that, except at the
Syringa, Mr. Foxborough seemed unknown
in theatrical circles, and the Sergeant had
been very diligent in his inquiries on that
point. Mr. Usher was puzzled as to what
direction he should now make research in. At
last it flashed across him that some further
evidence as to Foxborough's personality was
to be come by in Marlborough ; there must
be somebody else besides Mr. Totterdell who
had noticed the stranger at the theatre. In
country places, where every one is well known
by sight, a stranger would invariably attract
attention. He had been unlucky before in
not getting hold of the right people. Moreover,
the Sergeant reflected that he had not
as yet, to use his own expression, "turned Mr.
Totterdell inside out," and he had a hazy
idea that there was something to be got out
of that garrulous old gentleman, if one could

but get at it. That Mr. Totterdell would
maunder away a whole afternoon before blurting
out the one feet worth knowing which
he had to tell, the Serg-want thought was
likely, but he had experienced that sort of
witness before, and knew that there was
nothing for it but patience and — yes, he
had one other receipt which he had found
efficacious in similar cases, — namely, to affect
incredulity. It was apt to make a weariful
witness protest so much, that you did at
last get at the one grain of evidence he
had to give worth noting.

There was another important fact in the
case now, according to Sergeant Usher's judgment
; he had come to the conclusion that
Foxborough had a confederate, and it was
possible that it was the confederate and not
Foxboroug-h, who had sat next Mr. Totterdell
at the theatre. At all events, Foxborough
had got somebody to write that note, and it
was singular that the reward offered for the

murderer's apprehension had not induced this
person to come forward. The handwriting
was unmistakably a man's, and yet, people
conversant with James Foxborough's handwriting
were L[uite positive it was not his.
The Sergeant with those ideas once more ran
down to Marlborough and commenced his
inquiries. He talked as before with everybody
he came across in easy and affable
fashion, invariably turning the conversation
before long on the great Bunbury mystery,
but indefatigably as he gossiped for two
days he failed to pick up one particle of
information that might be turned to account.
He had, it is true, got hold of one or two
people who had positively noticed the stranger,
not vaguely thinking that they saw him, but
describing him definitely as a dark gentleman,
of medium height, attired in evening costume.
Still, this amounted to nothing. Foxborough
was a dark-complexioned man by all accounts,
and therefore there was no reason to dispute

the original theory that he was the man who
had been present at the theatre.

On the third day the Sergeant proceeded
to call upon Mr. Totterdell, and prepared
himself for a tolerably long conversation. That
gentleman, upon receiving his card, was only
too delighted to admit him. Mr. Totterdell,
in good truth, had been very much depressed
about the turn things had taken lately. He had
pressed for an inquiry into the financial affairs
of the town, and this had turned out perfectly
groundless. The Town Clerk was rumoured
to have left but little behind him, still his
books were all in regular order, and there
was no warrant for supposing that, whatever
he might have done with his own, he had
ever made ducks and drakes of the public
money. It is customary to speak tenderly of
the dead, and when a man makes so tragic
an end of it as John Fossdyke, pity makes
folks recall his good qualities only. Baum-borough
forgot the Town Clerk's aggressive

and domineering manner, and remembered
only the many improvements that he had promoted
in their midst. Baumborouoh further
called to mind that it was Mr. Totterdell, who
in spiteful fashion had moved for an inquiry
into its financial condition, and that his object
in so doing had been principally to annoy
John Fossdyke, who had very properly turned
him out of his house as a meddlesome .
Mr. Totterdell had succeeded
in making himself, by dint of his insatiable
curiosity and strong propensity to babble,
exceedingly unpopular, and this last move had
placed him in very bad odour with his fellow-citizens.
It was true he would gladly have
withdrawn his motion, but some of John
Fossdyke's enemies — and he was much too
self-assertive a man not to have made several
took good care the matter should not be
allowed to drop. His untimely death it
had been of course impossible to foresee, and

the motion made in Mr. Totterdell's name
VOL. n. P

bore, if loosely looked at, the aspect of a
malignant attempt to blacken a dead man's
fame. People declined to hear Mr. Totter-dell's
explanation, and that he had moved
for the inquiry ont of mere malice and consequent
on his quarrel with the luckless Town
Clerk he was unable to deny. Mr. Totterdell
had an idea that if he could appear as a
prominent witness against Foxborough, and
contribute not a little to his conviction, tacit
Baumborouo'h would condone his offending; and
take him once more into favour. That his
present unpopularity was due to his inquisitive
and meddlesome disposition, and not to the
unfortunate circumstance of his having moved
for that inquiry, never occurred to him. Weare
seldom conscious of our besetting sins, and ^
as a rule, men never plead guilty to tattling
and curiosity ; rather despising those vices,
we are little likely to acknowledge to a
weakness concerning: them.

''Ah! Mr. Usher," exclaimed Mr. Totterdell,

as the Sergeant quietly entered his drawing-room,
" delighted to see you ; knew you'd
have to come to me assail. That old fool
of a Coroner, you, of course, saw, deliberately
suppressed my evidence. I hope it was only
ignorance ; but how are the perpetrators of
crimes like this to be arrived at if the chief
evidence about them is to be deliberately sat
upon ? You were there, Mr. Usher, and saw
the Coroner, abetted by Mr. Trail, deliberately
squash my evidence. I had no opportunity
of stating one half of what I know."

That's just where it is, sir. I said if
they'd only let Mr. Totterdell tell his story
in his own wav we should o-et at the rights
of things, but it's just like these muddle-headed
country officials, they are so anxious
to display their little bit of authority that
they can't help interfering just to show they
have the right to."

Quite so, Mr. Usher, and if I had told my

story things might bear a different aspect

r 2

now. Foxborougli might be in custody
perhaps."

Well, I don't mind telling you in confidence.
I'm always straight and above-board
with the people in the case, but it is to go
no further, mind: that it's getting just a
question whether he ever will be in custody.
He is either about the deepest card ever I
came across, or rather can't come across, or
else what they're saying about Marlborough
is true."

*' Saying about Marlborough," interposed
Mr. Totterdell, greedily. 'what are they
saying in the town; nothing about me,
eh ? "

Well, that's just where it is, sir ; they're
a gossiping, good-for-nothing set, and they
seem to be mighty spiteful against you."

"Too true, Sergeant, too true, they are;
and all because I endeavour to do my duty ;
but what is it they say ? "

They declare you never saw Mr. Fox-borough

at all, that you either dreamt it or
saw some traveller passing through, who
happened to drop a Syringa bill, and you
imagined the rest."

"Ah, they say that," cried Totterdell, his
face flushed with anger. " Wait till the trial
comes off, and see what they have to say
then."

*' Getting open to question, as I said before,
whether there will be a trial. It don't require
much gumption," continued the Sergeant, " to
understand that you can't have a trial without
somebody to try."

Nonsense," stammered Mr. Totterdell ;
you don't mean to say there is no chance of
the scoundrel's apprehension."

Well, I am coming to the opinion of
Marlborough that you didn't see Foxborough.
Your opinion that you did is only based on
that music-hall bill, you know, anil that
amounts to nothing."

*' But," exclaimed Mr. Totterdell vehemently.

I am not the only person who recognized
him, or rather who spoke to him."

The Sergeant pricked np his ears, but all he
said was, " Well, I can t find any one else that
had any talk with him in all Marlborough."

"Perhaps not," retorted Mr. Totterdell
triumphantly, " but all the world doesn't reside
in Marlborough. Foxborough went behind
the scenes ; I saw him there myself, and they
all seemed to know him."

'' Oh," said the Sergeant, convinced now
that he had about turned Mr. Totterdell out,
"he went behind the scenes, did he ? Would
you, sir, as a particular favour, try to recollect
who ' all ' may mean. Who individually did
he speak to?" Now here Mr. Totterdell
broke down in ignominious fashion. He at
first said every one — then, will, not exactly
every one ; and finally, dexterously manipulated
by Sergeant Usher, he was brought to confess
that he had only seen the presumed Fox-borough
speak to the lady who had played

Mary Netley in " Ours' lie had forgotten her
name.

But this was a fact tangible and important
in the Sergeant's eyes. It would be simple
enough to find out who the lady was, and also
where she was now engaged. A professional
lady is generally easy to discover. But the
Sergeant was once more a little stasffifered ;
this fact was all in favour of its being Fox-borough
himself, and if so the accomplice had
confined himself to writing the note, and had
nothing more to do with the matter. Fox-borough
would of course be likely to know
theatrical people, although the Sergeant had
not been able to make out so far that he was
known amongst them.

"Well, Mr. Totterdell," observed the Sergeant,
who was by this most thoroughly
conversant with the old gentleman's anxiety to
appear as a witness, " this may turn out rather
important for you ; if we can only manage to
find this young lady, you see, she weill corroborate

your evidence, and then the chain
will be getting complete."

Didn't I sap so before ? If the Coroner
had only allowed me to tell my story at
Bunbury you'd have found this young lady
before now."

'' If you had only produced the most
important ftict in your wallet at the inquest,
Mr. Totterdell, we might probably have
arrested the murderer before this," replied
the Sergeant curtly.

You don't mean you can't find this young
lady '? The manager of the theatre, I daresay,
can give you her name."

Oh ril have her name, and find her in
four-ands twenty hours, but it is not likely to
lead to finding Foxborough now"

"You surely don't mean that he has fled
the country ? " asked Mr. Totterdell anxiously.


All I mean, sir, is that if people would
afford the police all the information in their

power instead of half of it, it avouch be more
conducive to the ends of justice."

And leaving Mr. Totterdell to digest this
observation the Sergeant bowed himself
out.

To ascertain that the leading lady at the
opening of the Marlborough Theatre had been
a Miss Lightcomb required, of course, only two
minutes' conversation with the manager of that
establishment, and a reference to the Era
quickly revealed the fact that she was at
present fulfilling an engagement at the Margate
Theatre, and thither Sergeant Usher betook
himself without loss of time.

Pretty Miss Lightcomb was not a little
surprised at an abrupt visit from a stranger,
and a little perturbed when her visitor announced
his professional position. Dexterously
questioned by Sergeant Usher she said that of
course she had read all about the Bunbury
murder, but what could she know about it.
She had never even been in Bunbury, nor had

she to her knowledge ever seen Mr. Fossdyke.
Of course she was aware that he had been
present at the opening of the theatre, but she
did not know him by sight, nor could one
always distinguish people in front even if you
did. Had she spoken to James Foxborough
behind the scenes that night ? Most certainly
not. She had never even seen Mr. Foxborough
in her life. Could hardly say she ever knew
him by name before this terrible murder
brought his name so prominently before the
public. Could scarcely say who she had seen
that night, there were a good many gentlemen
came round, pretty well all strangers to her ;
many of them said something complimentary
about her acting of Mary Netley ; there was
champagne and other refreshments going on in
the manager's room, and most of the gentlemen
were on their way there. No ! she had been
on the stage the last seven years, and she had
never heard of Mr. Foxborough in connection
with the country business. All her engagements

had been in the country ; she had never
succeeded in o-ettins: on the London boards.

Then, Miss Lightcomb," said the Sergeant,
at List, '• it is fair to presume that you have a
pretty considerable acquaintance with country
managers ? ''

Certainly I know personally a great many
of them. I have fulfilled engagements allover
Norland, besides taking; a turn in Edinburgh
and Glasgow, but 1 never heard of any
company conducted by Mr. Foxborough. It is
possible he had a stage name, you know, it is
a common enough custom in our profession."

Quite so, but I don't fancy he ever appeared
himself ; he merely managed a touring
company. Ah, well, I need trouble you no
further, Miss Lightcomb, at present ; it is
curious you shouldn't have heard of Mr. Fox-borough.
Good morning ! "

And it is curious," continued the Sergeant
to himself when he got outside the modest
lodo^ino-s in which the actress resided, " I

can't find anybody who ever has met Fox-borough
in his vocation, while, if ever there
was a profession in which a man was well
before the public, it is the theatrical. That he
is lessee of the Syringa is certain, but about
his other stage speculations nobody seems to
know anything. It is a very interesting case,
and Foxborough is about the most shadowy
customer ever I was in quest of. He doesn't
write his own letters, and doesn't apparently
practise his own profession, but he
commits one of the coolest, most audacious
murders ever known, and disappears. I wonder
whether that talkative old fool Totterdell is
addicted to drink or opium. He must have
seen some one though who did drop that
music-hall bill and whom he fancied he saw
behind the scenes afterwards. If he had only
let one know that he had seen the man in the
stalls speaking to Miss Lightcomb at the time,
it is probable that the girl might have called
to mind who did speak to her ; still, as she

said most of them were strangers to her,
perhaps the very man I want might have
been one of those."

Once more Sergeant Usher found himself
driven back to his old conclusion, that it was
a rum un." However, there was nothing
more to be done in Margate, and Miss Lignite
had apparently nothing to tell, and
yet the Sergeant was impressed with the idea
that, just like Mr. Totterdell, she would give
a valuable bit of information could he but
g-et it out of her. He did not think for one
moment she was wilfully keeping back anything,
but simply that for the want of the
key-note he had been unable to arrive at what
he wanted. All the questions he could think
of that bore upon the matter he had put,
and the actress had answered them frankly
and freely ; but Mr. Usher was aware that in
the detection of crime you may walk round
and round a thins; and not see it : examine
people who could and are quite willing to

tell you what you want to know, and yet
not arrive at that fact. Some trifling matter
that appears to have nothing to do with the
case is just the one missing link in a chain of
circumstantial evidence that the police are in
search of, and the possessor of that knowledge
has no conception of its importance.

Sergeant Usher determined to go back to
Marlborough. Nothing had come of his List
discovery there, but it was possible diligent
investigation mijyht lead to something: yet,
and no chess player was ever more absorbed
in an intricate problem than Sergeant Usher
in the elucidation of the Bunbury mystery.
Should anything suggest that crucial question
to which he believed Miss Lightcomb possessed
the answer, she was always to be found
without difficulty.

Nothing in these high-pressure days attains
the dignity of more than a nine days' wonder,
and it could not be supposed that Baum-borough
could sustain its interest about John

Fossdyke's untimely end any longer. His
assassin had apparently beat the police, and
the tragedy seemed destined to be one of
those semi-revealed crimes of which we have
only too many. But there were some few
people in the town dio still had strong
interest in the solution of the riddle. Mr.
Totterdell, for reasons already stated, deemed
that it would put him straight with divers
of his fellow-citizens, dio now unmistakably
gave him the cold shoulder, could the criminal
but be apprehended. Philip Soames had a
strong idea that if ever the story of the
Bunbury mystery should be unfolded he
should arrive at Bessie's secret, and Dr.
Inglebyby held a similar view. Soames had
called often at Dyke of late and always been
received with the greatest cordiality by Mrs.
Fossdyke. The widow had returned from
her excursion to the seaside, and Dr. Ingluby
had made known to her the alteration in her
circumstances. Curiously enough she was by

no means distressed at the idea of leaving
Dyke. On the contrary she said she should
never like the place again, and remarked that
she should have left it under any circumstances.
She talked matters over freely with
the young man, and told him she should take
a small house in Marlborough. Even had
her means permitted it, what did she want
with a place like Dyke. She should live a
good deal in retirement henceforth ; glad to
see her old friends, of course, but after such
a blow as had befallen her it was not likely
a woman would ever mix much with the
world again. As for Miss Hyde, she always
welcomed Philip with a sweet smile and frank
clasp of the hand, but she never suffered
herself to be alone with him. She had
decidedly refused to accompany him either
for a turn round the garden or as far as the
gate upon the one or two occasions that he
had begged that favour of her, giving him
to understand distinctly that all was over

between them, and Philip began to get despondent
about ever carrying his point. There
is no winning a girl's confidence if you can
never secure a tete-astute with her. Folk
don't, as a rule, unbosom themselves in public
albeit that insufferable bore who always will
inflict his domestic economy, from the price
of his wife's last dress to what he jays for
his kashmir, is ever manifest in the land.
Still these are hardly to be called confidences ;
distasteful revelations is I fancy what many
of the victims would describe them. Philip
Soames determined at last to have a quiet talk
over his love affair with Dr. Ingieby. Pie
cannot help thinking the Doctor can force
Bessie's hand if he will but try, and Philip
is fain to confess he. can make nothing; of it
himself, hard as he has striven. Were Fox-borough
only arrested he thinks the trial
might throw some side-light that would
reveal to him the cause of Bessie's scruples ;
for that they were mere scruples Philip was

VOL. II. Q

convinced. Full of this desicrii he took his

o

road to the Doctor's one morning and made
his way into the study.

Well, Philip, what brings you here so
early ? Glad to see you at any time, as sou
know, but you don't often honour me so soon
as this."

Well, I have come to ask your help as
an old friend. I told you how I stand with
Miss Hyde, and Fni in real earnest about
marrying that girl ; but Fm at a dead lock.
If she simply said me nay, well, I should be
bound to take my answer with the best grace
I could muster ; but she owns she loves me,
yet declares there are insurmountable obstacles
to our marrying. Now if I could
arrive at the obstacles I should probably not
think much of them, but I can't. I want
you to try if you cannot extort a confession."

This is rather an awkward task you seek
to impose upon me, Phil. Miss Hyde has
always been a special favourite of mine, and

I flatter myself I stand pretty high in her
good graces, but I don't know how she woukl
take such interference on my part. She's a
girl that, mark me, can hold her own, and
knows how to check what she may deem an
unjustifiable liberty."

I acknowledge all you say, my dear
Doctor, and I wouldn't urge you to do this
save for two things. Bessie has owned she
loved me, and I am sure she is action, thou oh
most conscientiously, ' for my sake,' to use
her own words, yet under a misconception.
I know, my dear old friend, I am to some
extent exposing you to a rebuff; but you
know Bessie, and must feel assured that if
she will not make confession to you her
refusal will be courteously couched."

"I know all that, Phil, still I have a
strong dislike to seeking a confidence. If
people bring you their troubles, well, one
must do the best one can for them, but when
they prefer to suffer in silence it seems

Q 2

gratuitous impertinence to endeavour to discover
what they so obviously wish to conceal."

*' I admit all that, but I am asking you to
run some mischance of that nature for my
sake' cried Phil. " My life's happiness is at
stake, and though it may appear presumption
to say so, I think perhaps Bessie's also. I
am bound to leave no stone unturned, nor any
friend who I think may aid me unsolicited for
help under such circumstances. I think you
can aid me, and T know you will when you
have thought it over."

I fancy I shall be so rash," replied the
Doctor. " Give me a minute to think about
it."

'' You shall have ten, if you like," replied
Phil, smiling, " because I know you mean
saying yes at the end of them."

The Doctor thought it over and then said —

I'll do my best for you. I'll see Miss
Hyde, and if I can induce her to tell me her
story "

Gentleman to see you, sir," exclaimed the
voice of the Doctor's servant, and as the
man spoke Dr. Inglebyby became aware of
the presence of Sergeant Usher.

Beg pardon, sir, but your young man
gave me to understand you were disengaged,
or else I wouldn't have intruded. Can't say
I regret it, as I just arrived in time to hear
you say you would try to make Miss Hyde
tell you her story. That's just where it is,
if we could only induce people to speak out
at once what a lot of things would be put
straight, and what an amount of miscarriage
of justice would be prevented. I don't say
it's wilful perversity, because it ain't ; it's
human infirmity, that's what it is ; it's
people's utter incapacity to tell all they know
about anything. Here's Mr. Totterdell, for instance,
tells me the day before yesterday a little
circumstance that if I'd known two months
ago would have been worth any money in the
case. Well, ofi" I go to see the party alluded

to, and of course they've forgot the very
thing they were wanted to remember. It's
aggravating, very ; it's as if we were engaged
in a regular game of hunt the supper with the
British public, only the British public are not
hiding the slipper intentionally."

Philip Soames had stared with amazement
and no slight indignation at this little grey,
voluble man, as he delivered the above tirade,
and Dr. Inglebyby saw that explanation was
imperative.

My dear Phil," he exclaimed, " allow me
to make you known to Sergeant Usher of the
Criminal Investigation Department, Scotland
Yard. As for making you known to him,
that I fancy is superfluous. I have little
doubt there are few of the leading townspeople
here with whom the Sergeant is
unacquainted by this."

The Sergeant made a respectful bow and
admitted he had the pleasure of knowing
Mr. Soames by sight.

But the young man was by no means
mollified.

I don't understand the unnecessary dragging
of Miss Hyde's name into the case," he
exclaimed haughtily. " You must be aware
she can know nothing; about it. You catch
a fragment of the conversation between Dr.
Inglebyby and myself, and immediately jump
to the conclusion that the story I allude to
has something to do with the death of John
Fossdyke."

Excuse me, sir," replied the Sergeant
quietly ; " the little I overheard was the
result of the purest accident, but Dr. Inglebyby
will tell you I have been of opinion almost
from the first that Miss Hyde has some
previous knowledge of James Foxborough,
and that if she could be persuaded to tell
that to, say, Dr. Inglebyby, it might prove of
considerable value in getting at the rights
of the Bunbury murder."

It is true, Phil," observed the Doctor,

the Sergeant is so far right that Miss
Hyde has admitted to some knowledge of
Foxborough, although she declares she never
saw him, and that the little she knows about
him could throw no light whatever on this
affair."

"Now, look here, Mr. Soames, you cannot
think that I want to annoy or occasion pain
to any young lady," interposed the Sergeant,
but I knows from experience it is just the
merest trifle that constantly affords us the
clue we seek. I don't say Miss Hyde is
in possession of it ; she no doubt honestly
believes the little she knows is of no consequence,
but I do wish she would let me
be judge of that. If she could be induced
to confide it to Dr. Ingieby, and the Doctor
then submitted it to me, Miss Hyde would
be saved pretty well all unpleasantness ; and
forgive me, sir, but in the interests of justice
I am compelled to gather every scrap of
information I can about one of the most

mysterious murders it was ever my lot to
investigate."

Philip Soames was still indignant at the
idea of the lady of his love being mixed
up in the affair in any way, but then he
reflected she must be slightly so under any
circumstances, and then it occurred to him
that what the Sergeant had first said was
very probably true, and that Miss Hyde's
story would quite likely include the account
of the slight knowledge of Foxborough. He
had just been urging his old friend to obtain
this confession in his own behalf, and there
would be glaring inconsistency in opposing
his doing so now just because a detective
officer thought a clue to the Bunbury mystery
might turn up in the narration ; moreover,
his own love chase depended on the result,
and he did not think that Bessie need fear
to confide in so trusty a friend as Doctor
Inglebyby. Love is essentially a selfish passion,
say the philosophers, more especially a young

man's love, and finally Philip gave his assent
once more to his own scheme.

'' You rely on me, Mr. Soames. Don't you
be afraid of my not considering Miss Hyde's
feelings. The chances are there won't be the
slightest necessity for ever making public the
young lady's information, but it \vill quite
likely just throw a glimmer of light upon
what I don't mind telling you, gentlemen, is
about as dark a business so far as ever I
went into. By the way. Doctor, I suppose
you never made anything out about that
letter ? "

No ; I should think there is little doubt
it was destroyed. By the way, I saw in the
papers some letters had been discovered at
the Hoping."

Bless you, sir, the papers will say anything
in cases of this kind," replied the candid
Sergeant. " Good night, gentlemen ! "

CHAPTER XL

Bessie's confession.

Dr. Inglebyby, the next morning, half repented
him of this promise he had made.
He was exceedingly fond of Bessie Hyde,
and he recollected the girl's distress the last
time he had spoken to her about her knowledge
of Foxborough. True, this was somewhat
different, he was only going to ask
her this time to trust in him and let him
be judge whether there was reason the happiness
of two lives should be wrecked. If she
really loved Philip, and he was not the man
to say she had made that admission without
due and sufficient grounds for so saying,
surely she would be anxious to clutch at a

chance of clearing away the obstacles to her
marriage. At ail events, thought the Doctor,
if I am somewhat overstepping the privileges
of an old friend, it is on behalf of two young
people whom I sincerely desire to benefit.
It may not be quite a pleasant business, I
am afraid it won t, it seemed so painful to
Bessie before to touch upon, that it would
be absurd to suppose it will prove otherwise
now ; still it's got to be done. I'm not going
to have Bessie Hyde and Phil Soames drift
apart if I can help it. She's just the wife
for him ; he's plenty of money, and lots more
to come. Oh no ! I'm not at all above
doing a bit of match-making when I think
it desirable, and I'll have the bells ringing
at Marlborough about those two, or know
the reason why.

No matter this to be put off, and the
Doctor determined to go over to Dyke, and
have the thing out at once. Unlike Philip,
he knew he should have no difficulty about

a tête-à-tête with Miss Hyde. Bessie undoubtedly
regarded the Doctor as a trusted
friend, and he was of that age she might look
upon him as not likely to misinterpret her
confidences. He called next day upon the
two ladies, as was his custom, about tea-time,
and after much desultory conversation as was
usual, and having quietly informed Mrs.
Fossdyke that nothing fresh had transpired
concerning her husband's melancholy end,
said, as he made his adieux, '* Miss Hyde,
walk to the gate with me, please. I have
something to say to you."

You wouldn't deceive me, Doctor ? " cried
the widow. "Surely there can be no more
terrible news coming to me ? "

Not in the least, my dear madam. What
I have to say to Miss Hyde concerns herself
alone, and is a thing she need feel little misgiving
about listening to. Will you come,
Miss Bessie ? "

Yes, of course ; my hat is in the hall. I

fee] half frightened, Doctor," lie continued as
they passed the hall door. "I don't know
what you have to tell me, but I can never
forget the night when Phil — Mr. Soames sent
for me into the study and told his terrible
tale."

'' I have nothing terrible to tell you, nor
you me, but, Bessie, I want you to comprehend
that I consider I stand to you in the light of
him who has gone. You know how intimate
I have been at Dyke, and it has always appeared
to me that poor Fossdyke looked upon
you more in the light of a ward than his wife's
companion. I was, as you know, one of his
most intimate friends, and am now his executor.
I want you, Bessie, to regard me in the
same light, and give me your confidence."

The girl's face looked a little troubled for a
minute or so, and then she replied, gravely,
It is only too good of you to take an interest
in me. As for confidences — " and here she
indulged in a little nervous laugh, — ;'*' what

should I have to confide further than it was I
upset the cream and not the cat."

To begin upon," said Dr. Inglebyby,
Philip Soames has acquainted me with all
that has passed between you."

Then I think Mr. Soames has been guilty
of much indiscretion' retorted the girl, as she
reared her head proudly. ''He might have
relied upon my lips being sealed, and though
I have nothing to reproach myself with, still
I did not anticipate our affairs becoming
common discourse."

Bessie, Bessie," replied Dr. Inglebyby,
gently, " please don't meet me in that spirit.
It was in no braggadocio vein, believe me,
that Phil told me the story of his wooing.
It was the wail of a rejected lover — rejected
forsooth, as he honestly avers and believes,
for some shadowy reason that could he but
come by it might be swept away in an
instant."

Mr. Soames did me an honour which for

reasons good and sufficient I felt compelled to
decline. He has told you that he asked me to
be his wife and, further, that for his own sake
I was obliged to refuse his request. I think
Mr. Soames is not treating me generously. I
told him frankly that I could marry no man
to whom I had not first told my story, aud
that I had not courage to do that ; if I had
loved him less it would have been easier, but
I could not bear the dismay on his face when
he learnt who I really was, or to have him
stand by his offer from a pure sense of honour.
I could not bear," she continued, passionately,
to embroil him with his own family, or that
people should whisper and point to Philip
Soames's wife as a woman with a shameful
story attached to her. No ! Dr. Inglebyby, you
are very good, but I love Philip too dearly to
be a millstone round his neck, or to have
him at war with society for my sake. If
poor Mr. Fossdyke had lived the decision
would have rested with him. He knew all

about me, and I told him what had passed
between me and Philip, but his advice is lost
to me, and I believe I am acting for the best,
doing what is right, in adhering to my original
decision."

Bessie ceased speaking, but it was evident
she was deeply moved, the long dark lashes
of her eyes were wet and the girl's whole
frame trembled slightly with emotion. Dr.
Inglebyby was not a little nonplussed. There
could be no doubt that Bessie honestly loved
Soames, and that it was entirely for his own
sake she refused him. She certainly was a
better judge than either he or Philip could
pretend to be of the circumstances ; was it
fair to wring this girl's story from her only
to endorse her own view and acknowledge
that the obstacles she deemed unsurmountable
really were so ? Then again, was it not
better for Philip that things should remain
as they were, and he be free from what might
probably turn out an unfortunate marriage,

VOL. II. R

so far as connection went ? Society in country
places is even more intolerant than in big
cities ; in London, for instance, who you are,
is not so much consequence now-a-days, as
what you've got per annum, and can you
keep clear of the law your iniquities are
not counted against you, provided your cook
and your wines are unimpeachable ; but none
knew better than Dr. Inglebyby that if the
ladies of Marlborough once decided the
antecedents of a new-comer, made her admission
within society's pale inadmissible, it
would be a gigantic task to break through
the taboo.

'^ Give me a few minutes to think, Bessie,"
he said at length. "I want to give the best
advice I can, to think what is best for both
you and Philip."

And as they strolled slowly on it occurred
to the Doctor that Philip was in very genuine
earnest about winning the girl for his wife,
and was not likely to rest passive with

things as they were ; that whether he
interfered or not the chances were that
the young man sooner or later would come
at the truth and take his own way then
without much reference to the opinion of
friends or relations. It would be better, he
thought, if he could induce Bessie to yield
him her confidence ; he should be judge of
the case now while he had yet opportunity
to tender advice to both the young people.

"Bessie, you admit the decision of this
affair would have rested with poor Fossdyke
had he lived. Do you not think it would
be best to look upon me as standing in his
place. True, in one case, unfortunately, you
have a painful story to tell which would
have been spared you in the other ; but you
know I am sincerely attached to Philip. I
have known him from a child, and know
his character thoroughly — a man very resolute,
and difficult to turn from a thing when
his mind is once made up, and he is terribly

R 2

in earnest about marrying you. It will be
no light thing that will stop him, and, Bessie,
remember by your own confession he has
friends in the garrison should he press the
place hard'

The girl smiled, as she said softly,

Too true ; I've never denied it, but I'll
be staunch to Philip's real welfare, never
fear."

Can you not trust an old friend of his,
a man like myself, who knows the world
well, and who would be a much clearer and
more dispassionate judge than himself, and
who would not abet him in doing; a foolish
thing, to be judge of the case ? It maybe
I shall pronounce your scruples groundless,
it may be I shall say, ' Bessie Hyde, if you
have any real love for Philip, run away
from the place, and don't bring social ruin
on the man for whom you profess affection.' "

The colour came and went in the girl's
face, as she listened to the Doctor's speech.

He had struck the right key ; he ignored
her and affected to be only anxious about
Philip's welfare. That was what she wanted.
Would any one decide between them, thinking
only of him. If her marriage was pronounced
possible she should only be too happy and
thankful, but if for Philip's sake it were
best she should go, she would depart without
a murmur.

Dr. Inglebyby," she said at length, '' if you
will promise to do that, to think only of
Philip and never of me, I can perhaps muster
up courage to tell you my story ; but, mind,
I am never to be cause of reproach to him.
Tell me honestly if I am right in my view,
and, friends in the garrison notwithstanding,
ril take good care he never has chance to
carry the place."

My dear Bessie, I want to do what I
deem best for two young people, of whom
I am very fond, but my first consideration
here I think ought to be Phil."

"Yes," she faltered, "you must not mind
me. Eemember, please, to be the woman
whose sad story was hung round his neck,
and socially drowned him, would be infinitely
more painful than giving him up altogether.
You must not forget, will you ? "

"No," replied the Doctor, mechanically, "I
will not forget," and as the words passed his
lips, he thought to himself, "I have no .right
either to forget your negation of self or honest
love for the man who loves you."

Doctor," Bessie continued, after a slight
pause, " you must know that I am nameless ;
that I have no father ; that I am nobody's
child. You understand," said the girl, in a
low tone, as the blood rose to the roots of
her hair, and her voice dropped almost to a
whisper.

"You have no father you ever knew, I
presume ? " observed Dr. Inglebyby, inquiringly.

I have no father at all, I tell you,"
rejoined the girl, sharply. " I am a love

child. I have been brought up by my aunt,
and impressed all my life with the disgrace of
my birth. I have only seen my mother now
and again. She has always been upon those
occasions kind, tender, and anxious to provide
me with everything I might want, but my
stern aunt used to interfere with her austere
ways and language, and remind her sister that
when she took charge of me it was upon the
express stipulation that she had control of
me for good, and that I was not to have
my head turned with the frivolities and
fripperies of my mother's position. It was
long enough before I understood what my
mother's position was, she had run away from
a serious family at Clapham with a theatrical
gentleman, and had naturally taken to the
same profession. I was the unfortunate result
of this union, if union it can be called, as I
am afraid. Dr. Inglebyby," continued the girl,
blushing rosy red, " my mother never was
married."

There is no very serious obstacle in all
this, Bessie ; unless you have something much
worse to tell I shall give you away yet, my
dear."

The girl shot him a grateful glance before
continuing her narrative, and then resumed —

When my cousins grew up they were no
longer to be repressed, they wanted more
life and gaiety, and speedily overruled their
mother, which, of course, included their father,
and got it. Dances, parties, and even an
occasional theatre became the order of the
day. My uncle undoubtedly disapproved of
it, but as for my aunt, she thought the new
regime possessed great opportunities of settling
her daughters, and so acquiesced in it. Then
came my offending. I unluckily proved more
attractive than my cousins, and no sooner
did this become transparent than my home
was made unbearable to me. I was for ever
twitted with my birth, or rather want of it ;
and at last confided my troubles to Mr.

Fossdyke, who was an old friend of my
mother and who often came to see me. He
not only offered me this place of companion
to his wife, but counselled my taking it,
saying, " Eemember, Bessie, you are not
dependent upon these people ; you have to
earn your own living, no doubt, but while
she lives there is always an allowance from
your mother to look to ; this, of course, goes
to your aunt at present, but will be paid
down to yourself if you come to us. I shall
allow you fifty pounds a year, which in
addition to your mother's hundred ought to
make you a well-to-do young woman, considering
you will live at Dyke for nothing.
And so it all proved."

Still, Bessie, you surely must know there
is nothing very dreadful in all this. Illegitimacy
is no such terrible stigma in these
times ; if there are people who should carp
at it, there are plenty of others who would
laugh at the idea of its being any ban to

marriage or social advancement of any sort
in these days."

But my mother is an actress," said Bessie,
in low tones.

'^ That may sound very terrible to your
fantastical aunt and uncle, but to people who
live in the world that is nothing now-a-days.
Id deed, from the time of the Stuart down to
that of Her present Gracious Majesty, royalty
and nobility have always had a great admiration
for the ladies of the theatrical profession.
Who is she ? I mean what is her stage name ? '

Miss Nydia Willoughby," rejoined Bessie,
with eyes rivetted on the ground.

Miss Nydia Willoughby ; let me see, dear
me, I know the name. Where did I hear
it ? I don't think I ever saw her."

That is her stage name, and I believe she
sings at the Syringa Music-hall."

Good heavens, the Syringa ! why that is
the place of which this James Foxborough
is the proprietor."

'eyes, and my mother is Mrs. James Fox-borough,"
faltered Bessie, in a low tone.

To say that Dr. Inglebyby was astounded at
this last revelation really did not describe
that gentleman's state. He was completely
stupefied by the announcement, and for a
minute or two remained silent. At last
he said, " Foxborough is not your father,
though ? "

Ko, I tell you I never knew my father.
I never saw my mother until the year before
I came here, except quite as a child, and saw
as I told you but little then of her. Mr.
Fossdyke, who was her man of business, and
an old friend, called upon me about twice a
year as a child, and perhaps a little oftener
as I grew up ; and now. Dr. Inglebyby, you know
my history. With the stain I bear upon
my name, how could I marry Philip, and
the last awful tragedy has made matters
still worse ; I am the step-daughter of
the murderer of one of his most intimate

friends, though I never even saw the miserable
man."

My dear Bessie," said the Doctor, after a
slight pause, " I tell you fairly, I am so
bewildered by what you have told me that
I don't think at present I am quite a clear
judge of the circumstances. In all your story
it is not quite evident to me there is any
impediment to your marrying Philip. You
acted like an honest girl when you said you
could not consent to do so until he knew
your history ; that you should shrink from
telling it was only natural. Still Philip
alone can decide upon this matter. There
is nothing in reality against yourself, and if
you follow my advice you will keep your own
counsel. It is not necessary that, with the
exception of Philip, any one in Marlborough
should know more about you than they doat
present. If you give permission, I shall
make him acquainted with your story ; but
otherwise, of course, my lips are sealed."

"Yes, Dr. Inglebyby, I should wish Philip
to know all I have told you. It will convince
him, at all events, that I am no heartless
coquette. Give him, give him my love, and
say I wish it could have been otherwise ; but
he will now see the impossibility of my saying
other than 1 have done."

Good-bye, Bessie," rejoined Dr. Inglebyby,
as they reached the gate. " You have a
staunch friend in me, whatever may be your
future lot ; and remember, my dear, I shall
feel proud to give you away yet, and claim
the privilege should it come to pass."

Bessie Hyde made no reply in words, but
her eyes thanked the Doctor with mute
eloquence as they shook hands.

CHAPTER XII.

THE PHOTOGRAPH.

As Dr. iDgleby walked back to Baum-borough
and turned Bessie's story over in
his mind he could not but reflect that his
own situation was now just a little awkward.
Prepossessed as he was in the girl's favour,
and believing thoroughly that there was
nothing which could be alleged against Miss
Hyde herself, still it was impossible to shut
one's eyes to the fact that she Would hardly
be deemed a desirable connection by any
respectable family. There was not only that
matter of her birth, but the very unfortunate
accusation under which her stepfather at present
lay. Old Mr. Soames and his wife might

fairly resent the encouraging: of their son in
such a marriage, and the Doctor felt very loth
to give cause of offence to such old friends.
He was bound to tell Philip this story, and
had a strong idea that the chivalry of the
young man's character would only lead him
to cling more closely to his sweetheart in her
trouble. Well, it could not be helped ; Philip
was a man of thirty, and if he could not
decide for himself now, would he ever be fit
to do so ? He would get a o-ood wife in
Bessie, even if her antecedents should be
deemed a little against her, and, moreover,
as these had been kept a secret for two years,
why should they not continue such. He could
trust himself not to speak. Philip would
naturally for Bessie's sake keep silence, whilst
as for Sergeant Usher the Doctor had early
taken stock of that officer's open candid disposition,
and rightly deemed that he could be
close and dumb as an oyster upon anything
of importance ; the confidences he made were

for the most part of the niost innocent and
milk and watery description, and might have
pretty well been arrived at by diligent perusal
of the journals.

That Philip Soames would call that evening
Dr. Inglebyby felt assured, and that Sergeant
Usher would do likewise he thought was
more than probable. He was not deceived,
he had not long finished his solitary dinner,
and was sitting over his wine and walnuts
when Phil made his appearance.

Well, Doctor, have you any news forme
? " he asked, anxiously, as he took a chair
and responded to the mute invitation contained
by the pushed-across decanter, and filled his
glass.

*'*Yes," replied Dr. Inglebyby, "I have.
Whether good or bad is for your own self
to determine. I am prepared to tell you the
whole of Miss Hyde's history. I may promise
at once there is nothing against herself, but
many men might hesitate about marrying

her. You, Phil, are old enough to judge
for yourself. I intend to tell you her story
simply, and to counsel you neither one way
nor the other," and then without further
preamble Dr. Inglebyby narrated Bessie's account
of herself.

Phil Soames listened attentively, but interposed
never a word, though he could not
suppress a start when he heard that Bessie
was the illegitimate daughter of James Fox-borough's
wife. He waited patiently till the
Doctor had finished, and then said,

Thanks no end, my dear old friend, for
what you have done for me. We have agreed
not to discuss this subject, but that is no
reason I should not tell you what I shall
do. All this makes no difference in my
feelings with regard to Miss Hyde. I only
honour her more for the delicacy and regard
she has displayed towards myself. I shall
marry her, for I don't think when I ask he
again, with full knowledge of her story, she

VOL. II. s

will say me nay any longer. I don't mean
just at once, you know ; she couldn't well
do that so soon after John Fossdyke's death,
but as soon as the conventionalities allow,
and, Doctor, I don't think it is necessary my
future wife's history should go any further."

'* Certainly not ; and you may 'trust mein
that respect, but remember we are half
pledged to let Sergeant Usher know the
result. Still, I consider that a question for
your decision, and would only remark that
I think you may rely upon his making very
discreet use of the information."

'*I had rather it went no further than
ourselves," rejoined Phil, slowly.

As you will," replied the Doctor ; '' only
remember so far, the Sergeant has shown
much feeling and though fulness in dealing
with the ladies at Dyke. If we refuse to
take him into our confidence he may discover,
and very likely will, the whole thing for
himself, and is then of course in no way bound

to show any particular discretion in dealing
with the information. If we let him into
the secret of Miss Hyde's history, of which
remember he is already on the trail, I think
he will make no public use of it, except in the
last extremity."

At this moment the door opened, and the
servant inquired if the Doctor would see Mr.
Usher, and after that official's wont he followed
so close upon the heels of his own announcement
as to pretty well preclude the possibility
of denial.

Good evening, gentlemen. I have just
called in to tell you I can gather no particle
of information that is to be called reliable
about Foxborough in this town. No one, you
see, really knew him by sight. Now, Doctor,
have you got anything for me ? "

** Sit down, Sergeant, and help yourself to
a glass of port," and as Mr. Usher complied
Dr. Inglebyby cast an inquiring glance.

Quite so, sir ; I understand," exclaimed

S 2

that worthy, whose quick eye little escaped
that came beneath it. " Now, gentlemen, I'm
not such a fool as to be obtrusive, but I see
you've got the information I seek, though
you can't quite make up your minds to let
me share it. You cannot suppose I would
make things unpleasant for Miss Hyde.
Although wdiat she has told you may be
great use to me, it strikes me as most improbable
that her name will ever appear. Of
course I can't say for certain till I know what
it is, but I can promise this, Mr. Soames, that
nothing but the most extreme necessity will
permit me to bring Miss Hyde's name into
the case." Phil looked Mr. Usher straight in
the face for a moment, but the Sergeant's
keen grey eyes never faltered, and then
turning to the Doctor he said, curtly, "tell
him everything."

Doctor Inglebyby without further delay
narrated Bessie's history, to which the
Sergeant listened without comment.

*' I don't think, gentlemen." he said, as
the Doctor concluded, 'that this is likely to
be of any use to me, though it unexpectedly
may be. It is very unlikely, indeed, that
Miss Hyde will ever be called upon with
regard to this case further than possibly to
testify that the dagger was not Mr. Foss-dyke's
property. As to what the Doctor has
just done me the honour to confide to me,
my lips, gentlemen, are sealed. But, Mr.
Soames, has one singular coincidence in this
affair struck you ? "

No ; what do you mean ? " cried Phil.

"That you and your friend, Mr. Morantt,
should be each courting a daughter of Mrs.
Foxborough."

It never occurred to me before, but it is
extraordinary," exclaimed Soames, "but how
on earth did you know it ? "

Well, if you'll excuse my making so bold,
it's no secret that you are sweet on Miss Hyde
in Marlborough. Watching Foxborough's

house, as of course we've doue very close,
showed us that Mr. Morantt was Miss Fox-borough's
lover, and of course at the inquest
I saw you knew each other perfectly welland
the rest is very simple, that you were
old University chums, and a slight knowledge
of your previous lives was not difficult to
come by."

"And do you always study people after
this fashion ? " asked Philip, half angry, half
amused.

*' Only when they have the distinction of
being concerned in what I consider a great
case," rejoined the Sergeant, gravely rising,
** and now, gentlemen, with many thanks
for your kindness, I have the honour to wish
you good night."

Soames was not long before he followed
the Sergeant's example and also betook himself
homewards. Phil lived with his father and
mother, but in a low wing or rather leg of
the house that had been run out expressly

for his accommodation. He had a separate
entrance, a sort of half ante-room, half business-room,
and a library, study, smoking-room,
or what you please to call it, on the ground
floor. Above were two excellent bed-rooms
and a bath-room. Having turned up his lamp
Phil lit another cigar and began to reflect
on the events of the evening. It was curious
deuced curious — that coincidence, as the
Sergeant described it. To think that he and
Herbert Morantt were going to marry sisters,
at all events half-sisters ; and then it occurred
to Phil, why on earth should he not have
Herbert down at once, and put in motion
those schemes for that young gentleman's
redemption which had crossed his brain before
the miserable tragedy of John Fossdyke's
took place. How little did he think when
Morantt said at the inquest it was odd that
the murdered man should be a friend of Phil
Soames, while the daughter of the presumed
murderer was the girl himself aspired to marry.

that they were in love with half-sisters. Phil
was a man of decision. Half a dozen more
turns in the room, and some slight more
consumption of tobacco, and seating himself
at his writing-table, he wrote to Herbert
Morantt, saying he should now be delighted
to see him at once. It would be rather
pleasant, he thought, as he directed and
stamped his letter, to have a chum with whom
to talk matters over a bit, and then he
wondered whether it would be unwise to tell
Bessie's story to Morantt, who, no doubt,
was in perfect ignorance concerning it. No
matter, he wanted to do his old friend a turn,
and had not two old friends in love, constant
food for discourse ; they would smoke, talk
of their sweethearts and poor Herbert's future
till the grey of the morning, more especially
as Phil really did see his way into opening
a career for that careless spendthrift, always
providing he was willing to put his shoulder
to the wheel in earnest.

"When Herbert got that message he read it
with mingled feelings of exultation and despondency.
He was jubilant at the idea of
really making a start in the world, but he was
low at the idea of having to leave Nid and her
mother in their troubles. Still it was impossible
to doubt what it behoved him to do, he
could be but of negative use to Mrs. Fox-borough
; except that his daily visit brightened
her now somewhat sombre life, and was
of course of much consequence to Nid, he
could really do nothing for them. The Bun-bury
mystery was for the present in abeyance
and Mrs. Foxborough's theory that her husband
was dead had gradually obtained considerable
hold of Herbert's mind. He had a
sorrowful good-bye to say at Tapton Cottage ;
Nid clung to him, and declared it was cowardly
of him to leave her in her misery, but Mrs.
Foxborough had more strength of character.
She rated her daughter pretty sharply for her
selfishness, thanked Herbert for all he had

been to them in their affliction, and bade him
** God speed " in search of fortune with a face
half smiles, half tears ; reminding him that
Marlborough was within very easy distance
of London, and that she should have no
scruples about sending for him if she had need
of him. Under which assurance, and with a
tearful embrace from Nid, Herbert bade goodbye,
and set forth to see what sort of career
that might be that dear old Phil had to
suggest for him — hazy, very, concerning what
this career should be, but firmly convinced
that an alarum clock and early rising were
most important factors in all starts of a
commercial description.

Very glad indeed was Phil Soames to
welcome his old University chum ; he had
always been very fond of Herbert when they
were at college together, having for him that
strong liking so often conceived by the man of
strong: character for his weaker brother, and
Herbert Morantt was essentially one of that

class — a continuous doer of foolish things, but
no chronicle of anything mean or blackguardly
against him. And so Herbert had
continued till the present, with nothing
against him but want of vertebra in his
character.

The greeting between the pair was genuinely
cordial, and Herbert having been duly
presented to the old people, and dinner being
concluded, they adjourned to Phihs peculiar
domain for a cigar and gossip.

I want to have a real good talk with you,
old man," said Herbert, as he took possession
of an easy-chair ; " have wanted it indeed for
some time. I have been a lazy purposeless
beggar all my life, but I've got something to
work for now, and I mean to begin just as
soon as ever I can see my way. If Fox-borough
did kill Fossdvke I believe it was
done in hot blood, and any way I am going
to stand by his daughter. I told her I loved
her before her father had this charge laid at

his door, and no one can suppose I'm going to
be such a pitiful cur as to abandon lier in her
trouble'

No, Herbert, I know you too well to think
that of you, and you might know that I was
not speaking at random when I asked you to
come down here. We have an opening for
you in our business, and I consider it worth
your consideration. It will take you a good
six months to master the routine, and by that
time we shall know if you will suit us, and
you will know whether the work will suit
you."

While Philip was speaking, Morantt had
taken up from the table a small photograph
book, and was idly fiddling with the clasps,
undoing them and snapping them to again.

"It is awfully good of you to give me
such a chance," he exclaimed, as the other
paused.

Yes, it is a chance ; might quite possibly
lead to a junior partnership in the firm, but

mind, Herbert, it must depend a good deal
upon yourself. If we can't make you a business
man in that time there is no more to be said.
We cannot afford to make you a sleeping
partner. You must put your neck to the
collar, and pull your fair share of the wagon.
If you are ever to participate in the profits
you must be a bona fide working partner."

I'm going to make no protestations, Phil.
I can only say try me, and as for sleep, sir,
I've brought down an alarum clock that will

o

effectually attend to all that. With Nid to
work for I should be a brute to neglect such
a chance."

While he spoke he had opened the photograph
book, and was carelessly turning over
the pages. Suddenly he exclaimed, " Great
heavens, Phil ! how did you come by this ? "

What is it ? That ? " he replied gravely,
as Herbert showed him the photograph that
had arrested his attention, — " that is a likeness
of poor Fossdyke."

Extraordinary ! " exclaimed Herbert. " I
could have sworn it was meant for James Fox-borough,
and was a very excellent photo. The
two men must have been the very image of
each other."

And Morantt and Soames stared at each
other in blank amazement.

END OF VOL. II.

3 0112 042045432

OF THE
University
or ILLINOIS

The person b°rrovvmg this ^ ^ ^^^^^^

may be «"«"^9^ j ^r lost item.

for each "0"'^ ^'^'Pf,, „/„, of library materials can

be causes for student d'sc'?''"" 7 . Library are the
tied by the " ^;^^,,lr:nd are protected by

Wnenrene-pnone.wrner.e.a.e e
below previous due date.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/atfault03smar

AT FAULT

VOL. III.

^ label

BY

HAWLEY SMART,

AUTHOR OF

BEEEaE Langton," " BROKEN BONDS," " SOCIAL SINNERS,'

THE GREAT TONTINE," ETC., ETC.

For the lords in whose keeping the door is
That opens on all who draw breath,
Gave the cypress to love, my Dolores,
The myrtle to death."

IN THREE VOLUMES.— YOL. III.

LONDON :
CHAPMAN & HALL, Limited, 11, Henrietta ST.

1883.

[All Rights reserved.'}

CONTEXTS OF VOLUME III.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

"SERGEANT USHER's VIEWS " . . . 1

CHAPTER II.

MR. CUDEMORE's MANOEUVRES . . , . 15

CHAPTER III.

BESSIE SAYS *' YES," AT LAST . . . 32

CHAPTER IV.

MR. CUDEMORE GETS UNCOMFORTABLE . . 49

CHAPTER V.

Moran MEETS MISS HYDE . . . ^^

CHAPTER VI.

THE RIDDLE ABOUT SOLVED . . . 84

CHAPTER VII.
MR. cudemore's love-making . . . 102

CHAPTER VIII

PARE

"breast HIGH scent" . . . 117

CHAPTER IX.

LOOKING OUT THE KEYSTONE . . . 134

CHAPTER X.

LAST LINKS . . . . 150

CHAPTER XL

MRS. Flamborough's CONFESSION . . 168

CHAPTER XII.

MR. CUDEMORE GETS UNEASY . . . 184

CHAPTER XIII.

NO LONGER " AT FAULT " . . . 201

CHAPTER XIV.

MR. CUDEMORE's ARREST . . . 219

CHAPTER XV.
"THE trial" . . . . 232

CHAPTER XVI.

CUDEMORe's CONFESSION . . . 261

CHAPTER I.

"sergeant usher's views."

** Of course you never saw John Fossdyke/'
said Phil, after a pause of some minutes'
duration.

Certainly not ; nor you, as I understand,
Foxborough. The likeness is odd, devilish
odd," rejoined Morantt.

Phil Soames smoked on musingly for some
seconds, and then said :

It's a curious think; that this extraordinary
likeness between the two men has never been
touched on as yet by any witness in the case.

VOL. III. B

You were present at the inquest, and know it
was never alluded to. You're quite sure
you're making no mistake ? "

'^ Quite, if you had not told me that was
the photograph of Mr. Fossdyke, I'd have
sworn to its being a likeness of Foxborough."

Once ao^ain did Phil Sources meditate before
he spoke, as if phlegmatic and slow of
thought, as the traditional Dutchman. Then
he said :

'* This is a bit of information that I don't
consider I am entitled to communicate to the
police without your sanction ; but, Herbert,
Sergeant Usher, of the Criminal Investigation
Department, who has charge of the case, is
in the town at the present moment, and I
have an idea that he would consider this
important."

*' Why ? " rejoined Morantt briefly.

Well, there you beat me," replied Phil.
*' I don't know ; it's a mere idea of my own,
but I'll confess to being considerably impressed

with Sergeant Usher. He seems tome,
to use Mark Twain's expression, a lightning
detective."

That may be, but, my dear Phil, situated
as I am with the Foxborough family, it is not
clear to me that assisting a lightning detective
at this moment would be for their benefit
altogether."

Certainly not, if you believe Foxborough
guilty, but you have already to-night avowed
your total disbelief in his criminality. If you
stand by that the discovering of the truth is
most desirable for his sake. I go for seeing
the thing fairly out, and I have a right to
speak ; little as you may think it, Herbert, weare
almost in the same boat."

The same boat ? Why, what on earth do
you mean ? " exclaimed Morantt.

It's rather a singular thing, Herbert ; and
the knowledge only came to me some two
days ago, but the girl I hope to make my wife
is a half-sister of Miss Foxborough."

B 2

Impossible ! James Foxborough has only-one
clip — bis daughter Nid."

"That may be, bat Mrs. Foxborough had a
dauo^bter before she ever married Foxborous^h
a child who bas been brought up by her
mother's sister. I don't wish to go further
into her history than this. I only mention
it now to show that I have almost equal
right with you to decide upon what use
we shall make of the discovery we have
just made. If Foxborough is an innocent
man, the more light thrown upon poor
Fossdyke's tragical end, the better for him ;
and then, again, we have no moral right to
suppress an important piece of testimony
like this."

Hum ! I don't know ; I've a sort of
idea that standing staunch to one's pals is
a primary duty in life, and I don't think
I should bother myself much about moral
obligations when fulfilling them threatened
to turn to their detriment."

'' I don't believe, as I said before, that this
will be to James Foxborough's detriment
Like you, I hold that even if he was the man
who caused poor Fossdyke's death it was a
case of manslaughter and not deliberate
murder, but remember that, except the one
fact of the identification of the weapon, the
evidence against Fox borough is all somewhat
conjectural. Look here, we will submit this
in the first place to Dr. Inglebyby, and ask his
advice about it."

I don't half like it, Phil," rejoined Morantt,
gloomily, " and wish I had never seen your
confounded photograph-book."

"But you have, you see; you have
virtually given a bit of evidence impossible to
recall. I cannot tell you why I think it
important, but I do."

Now," rejoined Herbert, " I'll give in. I
know these two things — that your head is
better than mine, and that you are sure to do
what you think best for both the Foxboroughs

and ourselves. That's so ; isn't it ? " added
Morantt, somewhat nervously.

Not a doubt, old man. Playing straight
may be playing bold, but it's very often
marvellously effective."

As usual the stronger spirit had carried his
point, and before the pair separated that Dr.
Inglebyby should be informed of the curious
discovery was thoroughly settled.

Morantt was somewhat astonished at the
importance the Doctor appeared to attach to it,
indeed it seemed of more consequence in other
people's eyes a good deal than his own, but Dr.
Inglebyby was quite clear on the one point that
it ought to be communicated to Sergeant
Usher without delay, and the Sergeant was
accordingly at once sent for. The message
found l\Ir. Usher in somewhat gloomy cogitation.
The story of Miss Hyde he had no
doubt was a piece in the puzzle, but by no
means a prominent one, and he was just as far
as ever from arriving at one of those centre

pieces upon which those pictured problems
invariably depend.

We have a bit of news for you, Sergeant,"
said Dr. Inglebyby as Mr. Usher entered the
room. " Sit down and listen to what we have
to tell you."

Good evening, gentlemen," replied the
Sergeant, with a comprehensive bow, and
without further speech Mr. Usher quietly
seated himself. In his vocation the Sergeant
was perfectly aware of the supreme advantage
of the listener, more especially of that very
rare specimen, the attentive listener. Was
not his business to acquire information, not to
dispense it ? Loquacity as a rule leaked ;
silence absorbed. But that Dr. Inglebyby's
account of the extraordinary likeness of John
Fossdyke and his reputed murderer interested
the Sergeant there could be little doubt with
any one acquainted with that officer's peculiarities.
His quick grey eyes glistened as the
Doctor recounted Morantt's curious mistake

about Fossdyke's photograph. He uttered no
word till Dr. Inglebyby had finished, and then
said quietly, ^' Would Mr. Morantt permit me
to ask him a question or two ? "

Certainly," replied Herbert.

You know Mr. Foxborough well ? "

Fairly so ; I have seen him a good many
times, but I wouldn't swear to twenty, remember."


"No matter. You cannot be mistaken
about his identity ? "

Certainly not ! I know him quite well
enough to be perfectly sure of recognizing him
should I ever meet him again, unless, of course,
disguised."

"Thank you, Mr. Morantt. Now, Mr.
Soames, I am going to ask you to lend me Mr.
Fossdyke's carte-de-visite ; if you have any
objection, no doubt I can get it in the town.
I don't suppose you have."

Not at all," replied Phil, " I have brought
it in my pocket on purpose ; here it is."

The Sergeant looked at it attentively, and
then said, " I never saw this poor gentleman
alive, but I should call this an excellent photograph."


Undoubtedly," rejoined Phil.

'^ Excellent," echoed Dr. Inglebyby.

*now, gentlemen," said Sergeant Usher,
you are entitled to know what I think of
all this. Two of you are, at all events, I
presume, somewhat interested in proving
James Foxborough an innocent man. Well,
you never did him or his a better turn than
you have done to-night. I have not ciphered
it all out in my own head yet, but I fancy
this means what they call at St. Stephen's,
when the Government works round and takes
up the politics of the party it has turned out,
a new departure.' "

*you don't seem to think much of the
principles of our legislators," observed the
Doctor, laughing.

Lord, sir," rejoined the Sergeant, " I never

troubles my head about politics, all I meant
was that, whether they were Whigs or Tories,
Radicals or Irish members, their policy is
pretty much that of the gentry I pass my
life in opposition to, one of expediency.
They pass acts of spoliation or levy taxes
just as my clients commit burglaries or pickpockets.
The necessities of the moment must
be complied with, and whether it's supper or
place, a man goes for what he wants badly.
But, good night, gentlemen. I shall have
something to tell you before forty-eight
hours are over, unless I am very much mistaken.
It's been an intricate puzzle all
along, but it's coming out, although I don't
pretend I see it as yet. Once more, goodnight,
gentlemen."

You agree with me this is important
evidence, Doctor," said Phil, as the street
door closed upon the Sergeant.

It must be, when we come to think of it.
This extraordinary likeness between the two

men cannot have been overlooked. Yet the
people at the Hoping never alluded to it, nor
could the mysterious stranger who sat next
Totterdell have been Foxborough. Neither
Totterdell nor any of the Marlborough people
could have overlooked such a startling likeness
as this seems to have been. It must
either have been some other Foxborough ;
somebody who assumed his name ; or he must
have had a confederate."

They continued to talk over the affair in
somewhat desultory fashion for some time,
but got no further than they should all be
extremely anxious to hear what Sergeant
Usher might have to tell them when he next
condescended to be confidential. The Doctor
alone knew how very little was comprehended
in the Sergeant's confidences, and thought it
was more than possible that Mr. Usher's next
communication would contain nothing, but that
he did lay considerable stress on the night's
news the Doctor felt no manner of doubt.

The Sergeant, as he walked homewards,
turned this "latest intelligence" over in his
mind, and became more impressed with its
importance the more he thought about it.
There can be no doubt whatever now about
the confederate," he muttered. " In fact, although
Foxborough likely enough instigated
the murder, it is quite open to question
whether he had anything to do with it
personally. Armed with that large command
of ready money to which Mr. Sturton
testified, he could purchase the services of
almost any scoundrel he chose, and nothing
is more probable than it was something
connected with Miss Hyde's history caused
his compassing Fossdyke's death. The latter
might have been Miss Willoughby's first lover,
and Miss Hyde the consequence of that
affair. That is probably the case, and what
led Foxborough to seek his life is easy of
explanation on those grounds. It's curious,
and it never seems to have struck any of those

gentlemen as yet, that we have not so far
fallen upon any witness that knew both men,
and yet there were two or three people
present at that inquest, Mr. Morantt one, who,
had they viewed the body, must have been
at once struck with the marvellous likeness
to the accused. Tottered, without further
questioning, is conclusive evidence that Fox-borough
was not present at the opening of
the Marlborough Theatre. He could not
possibly have overlooked such a likeness as
this. He is a wandering, very wandering
witness, but he tries to tell the truth as far as
his conceit and natural tendency to talk will
allow him. It strikes me that I had better
be off to town tomorrow and see if any of
the people at the Syringa recognize this
extraordinary likeness."

The Sergeant was a man of decision, and
the first train next morning saw him on his
way to London. He had slept on the thing,
and thought it well out, and arrived at the

conclusion that further fishing at present in
the somewhat stagnant waters of Bunbury
and Marlborough would be productive of no
results, but that his casting net next time
must be thrown into the wide ocean of the
metropolitan waters. The confederate, or
rather the real perpetrator of the crime, was
the man he wanted. Foxborough at most
could be but an accessory in the eye
of the law, although probably the instigator
of the murder, and that he had fled the
country Mr. Usher began to deem probable.
That the principal ports had been closely
watched was a matter of course, but that his
brethren had been beaten before in this respect
the Sergeant was only too well aware of.

CHAPTER IL

MR. CUDEMORE's Manoeuvres.

Sergeant Usher, arrived in town, lost no
time in making his inquiries. Herbert
Morantt is confirmed in every respect. People
perfectly conversant with the appearance of
James Foxborough recognize the photograph
for him at once, and these are officials at the
Syringa for the most part, who .all disclaim
any knowledge whatever of Mr. Fossdyke,
and deny ever having heard his name till his
sad fate put it in all men's mouths. Sergeant
Usher begins to have a shrewd suspicion
of the truth, but is more puzzled than ever
as to the identity of the mysterious stranger
who graced the opening of the Marlborough

Theatre with his presence, and yet the Sergeant
has little doubt that he was the chief
actor in the tragedy. For the present Mr.
Usher is at fault ; quite undecided, indeed, as
in what direction to make a fresh cast for the
recovery of the trail. He has called at
Scotland Yard to report himself, and learnt
that they have no tidings whatever of James
Foxborough. Mr. Usher is not much surprised
at that ; he does not think it probable
that any clue to Foxborough's lurking-place
will be picked up by his brethren, but hasa
strong suspicion that he himself can indicate
where he is when necessary. In the
mean time, he wants the accomplice, or the
Foxborough of the Hoping, who evidently
was not James Foxborough of the Syringa
Music-hall. " It is very odd," mutters the
Sergeant, *' but here I am carrying about in
piy pocket-book what would probably identify
him in a moment if I could only hit off the
right person to submit it to. This note

addressed to the dead man is in no disguised
hand, and there are doubtless plenty of people
could identify it if I only knew 'em. Both
Foxboroush's bankers and the stao^e manager
of the Syringa don't see any attempt at
simulating: his hand, and from the writing
they showed me I also should say there was
no effort at imitation. It only wants a little
thinking out. Query, was Miss Hyde the
cause of the murder ? Why should she
be ? She is not Foxborouo-h's own daughter,
and John Fossdyke from all accounts has
been an exceedingly good friend to her. I
know a little more about the thing than anyone
else, but I admit I am still quite in the
dark as to who committed the murder, if
murder it was, and why he did it."

Let me see," muttered the Sergeant, as he
once more sat meditatively smoking over his
own fireside. " Why did Foxborough want all
that money he borrowed ? I don't know as yet,
but I fancy I can get at that. Next, what has

VSL. III. C

become of Foxboroiigh ? I feel pretty certain I
can get at that. Then, how did the dagger of
Foxborough, with which Fossdyke was undoubtedly
killed, arrive at the Hoping?
Lastly, who was the Foxborough who went
down to stay at the Hoping, went to the
Marlborough theatre, invited Fossdyke to
dine, and undoubtedly caused his death ? I
have got his handwriting, which he doesn't
know. Fve got plenty of witnesses to his
identity, which he undoubtedly does know, and
I feel pretty sure that he has never left the
country. Further, I have made a discovery
of which he is not likely to get a hint,
and upon which he must principally rely as
his safeguard. '' It's a good game, a very
good game," exclaimed Mr. Usher, " but
ril sive checkmate for a crown before it is

over.

It was a very jubilant evening in Tapton
Cottage when Morantt's letter from Baum-borough
reached them.

*'My darling Nid," wrote Herbert, ''I cannot
tell you what, nor could you understand
its importance any more than I do, but we
have made a discovery about that miserable
Bunbury affair, which the celebrated detective
in charge of the case deems of the greatest
consequence to your father. He told Phil
Soames, in my presence, that nobody had
served your father better than we had in
accidentally bringing to light the trivial
circumstance we did. I can't explain it, Nid,
because I don't in the least understand its
importance for one thing, and I'm bid hold
my tongue for another, though I suppose you
would say that couldn't possibly apply to you.
Any way, dearest, tell your mother it's good
news, and that I feel sure your father will
be fully exonerated. Dear old Phil has made
me a splendid offer, and holds open to me a
choice that I shall deserve kicking if I fail to
avail myself of. Did you ever hear of a beer
king, Mademoiselle ? You are, I trust, destined
to be a beer queen. Shall you be awfully
shocked at treating our friends to beakers of

C 2

Soames and Morantt's extra, or urging them to
try just one glass of the Philerbertian stout.
The invention of that composite name, is my
first great stroke in the business. As for the
alarum about which you chaff me, there is a
hatred between us as yet too deep for expression,
but he is master, and I obey his brutal
behests implicitly. Time, not his time, may
bring about a reconciliation, but his horrible
indifference at this season to the glories of
sunshine are disgusting. He often appeals tome
to be up and about long before it.

God bless you, Nid, remember you are to
be a breweries, so don't adopt the blue ribbon,
not the Garter, the other one, nor turn up
your pretty nose at oysters and stout. I never
did even before I was one of the initiated malt
and hops brethren. Love to your mother, and
tell her, though I cannot explain it, our best
news is good news. — Ever, dearest Nid, your

very own,

Herbert."

Yes, a letter like this was certain to spread
joy through Tapton Cottage. It was good

news to both ladies, and the bright flush
of happiness in her daughter's face could
not fail to evolve some sympathy from such
an essentially sympathetic woman as Mrs.
Foxborough. She warmly congratulated her
daughter.

I think I understand Herbert, Nid," she
said, " and a man such as he has described Mr.
Soames will be the making of him."

Mr. Cudemore, ma'am," said Eliza Salter
as she entered the room, " wishes to know if
he can see you for five minutes ? "

Well, he can't see me," cried Nid, " I hate
the sight of him. Oh you, poor mother,
I am so sorry for you, but I must run away.
Herbert's the only ' disagreeable ' I ever take
off your hands, and he, of course, has a claim
for his pretended gallantry while I was insensible.
I have no doubt it was the park-keeper
really rescued me, and that he regarded the
conflict from a safe distance."

*you don't believe anything of the sort,

you silly cliilcl," replied lier mother, smiling,
but if you don't want to see Mr. Cudemore
you had better vanish, because I must see him.
He has come, I know, on a matter of business.
Off with you."

"Show him up, Eliza."

Nid gathered up her skirts and fled precipitately,
while Eliza proceeded to fulfil her
mistress's behest.

"Good morning, Mrs. Foxborough," said
Cudemore as he entered. " I am excessively
sorry to have to intrude upon you at such
an unfortunate moment as this, but business
unluckily refuses to be postponed, and
your husband's either ill-timed or misjudged
absence has occasioned an unpleasant complication
which necessitates my appealing to

you."

Pray sit down, I am quite willing to hear
what you have to say," rejoined Mrs. Fox-borough,
who had no very favourable opinion
of the money-lender. She knew Mr. Cude-

more had, tlioiigli in urbane manner, most
rigidly exacted his pound of flesh on former
occasions. She knew that he was their creditor
now for a very large sum, about the investment
of which she had no conception. She
had bowed meekly to her husband's decision
to borrow it. It was not wanted to sustain
the Syringa, she knew, but about his provincial
speculations she was in total ignorance. He
had at times made money out of them,
undoubtedly ; without one of his provincial
companies they never could have mustered the
money necessary to start the Syringa, and that
they had been obliged to borrow money besides,
she was only too painfully aware. Mr.
Cudemore had been a very exacting bloodsucker
in the early days of that concern ; paid
off at last, but, as Mrs. Foxborough ruefully
remembered, once more a terrible creditor.

It is most unpleasant for me, of course,
and more especially under the peculiar circumstances,
but please remember, Mrs. Fox-borough,

I am only the unwilling mouthpiece
of others. Your husband's absence has
frightened the people \Yho have advanced
him this last money on the security of the
Syringa, and my instructions are simply to
give notice of their intention to withdraw the
mortgagee at the end of six months. You can't
suppose, Mrs. Foxborough, that I wish to be
disagreeable, and should you deem this inconvenient,
I shall be happy to give you my
assistance in raising it elsewhere."

"That, of course, Mr. Cudemore, will be a
things for future consideration. In the meantime
I can only thank you for your good
intentions."

But Mr. Cudemore was not" to be got rid of
like this. He had by no means said his say
as yet ; in fact, this was mere skirmishing.
The battle royal is not always fought at our
own discretion, but we at all events can
endeavour to exercise some pressure about
brinofinof it about.

I think you had better take me into your
confidence," he urged. " These people may
get impatient when the time comes, and if you
don't find them their money foreclose, and you
would lose possession of the Syringa."

** But how can I take you or any else into
my confidence when I am in total ignorance
myself? If I have to find the money at the
expiration of the time, and can't, well then I
suppose the Syringa and I must part. But it
is most unlikely my husband made away with
such a large sum as £'6000. Some of it, of
course, he may have spent, but I am sure there
is something to show for it. He invested it in
some manner, and 1 think before the time you
mention it is probable I shall discover where
he is, or whether he is alive. I don't know,
but I am quite sure he never committed the
crime laid to his charge, and I hear the police
are coming to the same opinion."

I am very glad to hear it," replied Mr.
Cudemore, suavely, '"' but I need scarcely say I

can have no wish to touch upon so painful a
subject. Still there are circumstances under
which I could find you the money."

It will be time enough to discuss those
circumstances when the necessity for finding
the money arises," rejoined the lady sharply.

Whatever his design Mr. Cudemore felt that
he could not prosecute it any further for the
present, and took his departure.

The miserable trickster," said Mrs. Fox-borough,
as her eyes sparkled. " He means he
would find the money if I gave him Nid, as if
I wouldn't see the child dead and the Syria
burnt first. 1 wonder whether the people who
lent the money are altogether guided by him,
and what induced poor James to borrow so
large a sum. AVhat could he want it for ? "

From this date, Mr. Cudemore was constantly
proffering assistance. He claimed, too,
certain authority over the Syringa., and neither
Mrs. Foxborouo^h nor her staofe-manao-er were
quite clear whether he had such rights or not.

He said lie had a right to examine the books
weekly on the part of the mortgages, and as
Mrs. Foxboroiigh had no copy of the deed,
she was not able to gainsay him. Mr. Cude-
more said that clause had been specially
introduced, as she would see when her
husband's copy was discovered. Mr. Cude-
more's dogged persistence was remarkable.
In vain did Mrs. FoxborouQ;h decline his
offers for assistance. She was almost rude to
the man, but he still would keep perpetually
calling:. Then he tried to frighten her about
the loss of the Syringa, but Mrs. Foxborough
told him plainly she had done without the
Svrino-a before and could do so again. She
did not want to lose it, but if her retaining
was to be a matter of favour then she
preferred to go. Cudemore was evidently
very much in earnest, or he would never have
put up with such continuous rebuffs, and
about what his real motive was Mrs. Fox-borough
had never had any doubt from the

very beginning. He rarely saw Nid upon
these occasions, and certainly could not claim
to have met with the slightest encouragement
from that young lady, but the man was crazed
about her, and determined to win her at all
hazards. That she had the slightest fancy for
him never crossed his brain for a moment
the contrary, I think a wicked determination
to make her pay dearly for her
ostentatious indifference should she ever
be his wife was much more often in his
thoughts.

'' Yes, my dainty lady, the time may come
when you'll wish you had shown me more
civility, ay, and your stuck-up mother too. I
shall marry you at last, little as you may
think it."

And it did look preposterous, and only that
Cudemore was quite off his head upon the
subject, he might have seen so himself.
Whether she lost the Syringa or not Mrs.
Foxborough and her daughter would be in no

such needy circumstances that he might look
to bend them to his will against their own
judgment, and he must have been blind indeed
if he failed to see that neither lady favoured
his pretensions. As for Nid, her feelings were
more than mere indifference towards him ;
they amounted to actual dislike, and in face of
her engagement to Herbert, no pressure would
have been likely to make her accept Mr.
Cudemore.

*^My dearest Herbert," wrote Nid. "So
many thanks for the good news contained in
your last letter. It is grand to hear that the
police have no longer any doubt of papa's
innocence."

Well, upon my word," remarked Morantt,
as he laid down the letter for a moment, " that
is a most ingenious twisting of my words.
AVhat I meant was ' Seem to have some doubt
of Mr. Foxborough being the delinquent after
all.' "

We get on pretty well, but mamma frets

dreadfully, and to add to her troubles that
wretched Mr. Cudemore is always worrying
her. He claims some control over the Syringa,
though whether he has any real right to
interfere we don't know, but he's always
coming here pestering about it, and poor
mamma has quite sorrows enough without
their being aggravated by a monster like that.
How very good it is of Mr. Soames to give
you such a nice start. Next time I see you —
ah, when is that to be — I shall expect to find
you have taken a treble x degree. You will
grow awfully rich, brewers always do, you
know, and that will be nice, because you
will be able to give me all sorts of pretty
things, and I appreciate pretty things. I
don't want to interfere with your work, but do
snatch a day the first time you've a chance,
and come up and see us. It will do mamma
good, and you might make out for us whether
Mr. Cudemore is entitled to assume any
control of the Syringa, Good-bye, Herbert

dearest. Mamma's love, and believe me, ever
your own NiD."

Mr. Morantt's first impression upon perusing
this epistle was that it behoved him to go
straight to town and kick Cudemore, but upon
second thoughts he decided to postpone that
ceremony for the present.

CHAPTER III.

BESSIE SAYS " YES," AT LAST.

That Philip Soames, after what he had
stated of this intentions to Dr. Inglebyby, would
be long before putting them into practice was
not very likely, and the very next afternoon
saw him striding along the causeway to Dyke —
mightily determined Bessie should answer that
question in solemn earnest this time, and that
there should be no further mystery between
them. Miss Hyde, to tell the truth, had passed
a sleepless night, a night of starts and shivers,
hopes and fears, such as is the luck of few of
us to escape experience of ; she knew now she
had staked her very all upon the case, for she
no longer attempted to disguise from herself

that she was life bankrupt in love should
Philip resign her. She had talked bravely
enough about not being a clog round his neck,
of never being a social drag upon him, of
giving him up for his own good, and she
meant every word of it ; but still she had
never realized his giving her up. That might
come to pass, but it was at an undefined
distance, not an immediate question. She
might still hope at all events this last stain
might be removed from her family, that the
step-father she had never seen might be
absolved from the murder of him who had
been so good a friend to her, that Phil's love
might triumph over her own resolution. All
this was in the future ; now she was face to
face with it. Thirty-six hours, forty-eight at
the outside, and she would know whether all
was over between her and Phil Soames. If
he had not spoken before tomorrow night the
chances were she would never see him again ; if
he had not spoken before the night after, she

VOL. III. D

knew if ever lie saw him ao;ain it would be as
no lover of hers.

To say that the announcement of Mr.
Soames made Bessie start and colour would
barely describe the girl's agitation, but it had
to be mastered, and though she had a violent
desire to run away, she knew that was
ridiculous, that Phil's early visit was an
augury of the best, and that it was impossible
for the best-intentioned and most ardent lover
to propose if the object of his idolatry persistently
refused him opportunity. So she held
her ground, and showed no sign of shiver in
her manner as she greeted him. Mrs. Foss-dyke
welcomed him warmly, as usual, and
Miss Hyde, albeit her hand shook slightly,
handed him his tea with very fair composure.

*' I am very glad to see you, Philip," said
Mrs. Fossdyke. She had aged and become
much more subdued in manner since her
husband's death. " I hear you have got a
friend staying with you."

Yes, an old college chum, whom I hope
you will permit me to introduce to you before
very long."

Ah, it's getting too late for me to make
fresh acquaintances. It is not as it was
when John was alive. I'm not going to mope
or shut myself up, but I do feel all the
spring's out of my life, Philip."

You can't expect to get over such a
shock all at once," he replied. 'sis it true
that you have taken that cottage of old
Morrison's close to us ? "

'Mt is and it isn't," said Mrs. Fossdyke.
I have not as yet, but I am thinking of
doing so. It would be quite big enough
for me and Bessie, and I don't wish to stay
at Dyke even if I could."

It will suit you admirably, and you wall
be close to most of your old friends. But
I have come out, Mrs. Fossdyke, to beg a
great favour of you."

Miss Hyde gave a slight start.

D 2

A favour of me, Philip ! You should
have come in the days of my opulence."

There are plenty of favours to be craved
at your hands yet, as you will find in due
time, Mrs. Fossdyke. What I have to ask
is your permission to win this lady for my
wife if I can," and Philip rose as he spoke
and bent his head to Miss Hyde.

It's madness ! " exclaimed Bessie, faintly.

Yes, sweet, and with method in it ; but
let me only have Mrs. Fossdyke's permission,
and I'll endeavour to explain it."

She's as good a girl as ever stepped ! "
exclaimed the mistress of Dyke as soon as
she had recovered from her astonishment,
delighted to find that her pet project was
on the eve of accomplishment. "You have
not only my sanction, but, Bessie, my dear,
if you take my advice you will treat him
kindly."

'you know all, Philip; you are sure you
know all ? " faltered the girl.

Dr. Inglebyby has told me everything, and
now I know your secret I laugh at it, as
I have always prophesied I should ; and now,
Bessie, before Mrs. Fossdyke, I ask you
solemnly, will you be my wife ? "

Stop," cried Mrs. Fossdyke, " I don't like
this ; more mystery ; there's usually misery
with mystery, Bessie," she continued, sadly.
*' What is this secret of yours ? Alas ! it
has brought woe to me already, the bitterest
quarrel ever I had with poor John was about
that. Is every one to know it but me ? Am
I to be ever hearing of it, but never hear it ?
I think, child, I deserve your confidence
better."

Bessie half sprang from her chair, then
dropped back, and with wet lashes cast an
appealing glance to her lover.

Philip responded at once —

"Mrs. Fossdyke, spare me Bessie for a
short time, and on her return she shall tell
you everything. I trust by that to have

obtained the right to advise her. Come ! you
came for a stroll with me not long; ao;o, and
I hope you will send away a happier man
to-night than you did on that occasion. '*

The two ladies seemed swept away by this
decisive, dictatorial young man. Mrs. Fossdyke
simply dressed his hand, and wished him
success as she bade him good-bye, while
Bessie quietly got up and followed him out
of the room, took her hat and flung a woollen
shawl round her as she passed through the
hall, and then they stepped out and he led
her to the now leafless rosary, there he stopped
abruptly, no word had as yet passed between
them, and said almost brusquely, " Bessie,
how is it to be ? "

For a few seconds she felt indignant at
his abruptness, and then she reflected that
this was the third time this man had asked
her to marry him, that even the knowledge
of her history had made no difference whatever
in his steady devotion ; that she loved

liii dearly, and lastly, if they once get over
the first shock women more often than not
succumb to these blunt wooers.

Philip," she said at last, " it shall be as
you will."

Then, dearest, you belong to me," was
his rejoinder, and he clasped her in his arms
and kissed her. 'now, Bessie, I have
nothing in the main remember to learn
about your history, but I do want to ask
you one or two questions. How much do
you know of your mother ? "

"Next to nothing, as I told Dr. Inglebyby.
I have seen her only occasionally. Such a
fine handsome woman and with a charming
voice and manner. She kissed me and
fondled me, but seemed always under some
sort of restraint, and if, as more than once
happened, ni' aunt interrupted our interview,
she immediately became formal and cold in
her manner. I am sure she was bound by
some pact to my aunt to be nothing more

than a mere nominal mother to me. When
I implored her to let me come and see her
she said it was impossible, and I never even
saw her house, nor do I know where she
lives. I think my mother and I could have
loved each other dearly if we had ever been
given the chance, but we saw each other
so rarely."

"And what about your sister —-half-sister,
I mean ? "

'' Sister ! " exclaimed Bessie, " I didn't know
I had one."

"Well, she is only your half-sister, but
Nydia Foxborough is, I am told, a very pretty
and charming girl."

I should like that. I should like to have
a sister, Philip. Shall I ever know her, I
wonder ? " said Bessie softly.

Yes, you will know her, and see a great
deal of her, little woman, I hope, in days
shortly to come. You have heard I have an
old college chum staying with me ? "

*' You told us so at tea-time."

Well he, Herbert Morantt, is engaged to
marry Nydia Foxborough, and I intend that
Herbert Morantt shall turn brewer and become
a partner in the firm of Soames and Son.
And it will be Herbert's own fault if it don't
all come off, and when a man's really in love I
can vouch for his becoming very resolute,"
concluded Phil, laughing.

Very desperate," interposed Bessie. " I
can't give you back your troth, now, dearest.
I'm too selfish, it would break my heart, but
I'm afraid, Phil, you are not doing a very
prudent thing in marrying me, but to take
care of my unknown sister besides is too good
of you, for you are indirectly taking care of
her, you know. You must bring this Mr.
Morantt out and let me know him. I shall
be so pleased to talk to him about Nydia."

"Yes," laughed Phil, "and, great heavens,
won't he jump at the opportunity. I've
a good deal of difficulty in suppressing a

tendency to talk to him about you, but 1
doubt whether I should be allowed if I tried,
Herbert has so much to say about your sister.
She's a sweetly pretty girl, judging from her
photograph, but not in the least like you,
thou oh I hear she is a miniature edition of
her mother."

Mamma is tall," observed Bessie.

And Nid, as Herbert calls her, petite. She
is endowed with every charm and virtue
under the sun. I need scarcely say that the
testimony is biassed, and if a man is not
biassed in favour of his betrothed he's not in
love with her. If she be not all grace and
perfection in his eyes, well ! "

Well, what ? " asked Bessie, roguishly.

His fetters are not snapped to," rejoined
Soames, laughing. "Mine, darling, are well
riveted, and faith, when you talk to Herbert
Morantt I think you'll admit his manacles are
satisfactorily soldered on."

*' Ah, well, I shall be charmed to listen to

him for a long afternoon. I have always so
longed for a sister, and you say she is nice. "

*' No, pardon me, I never said so. Herbert
does ; he knows her and I don't. All I say
is, if the sun don't lie, she should be a very
pretty girl, but I've only seen her photograph."

Ashen am I to see her ? " asked Bessie.

'' Ah ! That I can't say. It depends a
little upon this miserable murder. I fancy
the police have rather changed their views
about it of late, but they don't take us into
their confidence. Miss Foxborough down here
just at present would be an impossibility, you
know."

Yes, and I fervently trust now that Mr.
Foxborough will be acquitted of the crime.
It would be a wall between Nydia and myself
were it otherwise."

For the present, perhaps, yes, but not of
necessity in the future. In the mean while we
must not speculate on disagreeable subjects."
But, Philip," said Bessie, in a low tone,

as they continued to pace up and down, " am
I to tell Mrs. Fossdyke all my story ? Would
it be best ? "

Yes I tell her everything, prefacing it with
the intimation that you are pledged to be my
wife."

It shall be as my lord wills," rejoined
Bessie ; " but I own I think it will pain
Mrs. Fossdyke."

Phil Soames gave a low laugh ere he
replied —

To think, dearest, a man's wit for once
in a case of this sort should eclipse a woman's.
Mrs. Fossdyke may be a little startled at
first, but in telling your story you will of
course make her clearly understand you never
even saw your stepfather. Well, you will
satisfy no little curiosity she feels about your
previous life, and the announcement that weare
engaged will, I am sure, please her. You
know, Bessie, as well as I do, that though she
has never been so injudicious as to attempt

match-making between us, she has in many-little
ways never attempted to conceal that
she would be pleased if we did happen to
take a fancy to one another."

** Philip," cried the girl, as the blood rushed
to her temples, " you have no right to talk
like that. It seems "

'' Stop," interrupted Soames, " it seems as
if you were about to observe that one of the
twain was a Ion or while taking that fancy.
She can't say it was altogether my fault, for,
my darling, if ever a man won a bride by
thorough belief in her, devoted love for her,
and persistent refusal not to take ' no ' for
an answer, I think I did. Til hear no word
against Mrs. Fossdyke."

'' I wasn't going to say anything against
her. What I meant was this — " cried Bessie.

Which was not in the least the case,"
replied Phil. *you where going to insinuate
that, like Benedick, I was trapped into falling
in love with you. Not a bit of it ;

before I'd known you six weeks I'd vowed
to marry you, and on my word, Bessie, there
was a time when I thought I was like to be
forsworn.'^

'' For your own sake, my love," she replied
softly. " If it had not been for that, Phil, I
am afraid I should have surrendered at the
first assault, and that the telegraph board on
the cricket-field would only have recorded the
half of your triumphs."

Soames pressed her arm in reply, and said,
Walk with me to the gate, Bessie, for it is
time I got home to entertain your brother-in-law
that is to be, after all these family matters
are arrange-ed."

o

And you are sure I had better tell Mrs.
Fossdyke everything," asked the girl, as they
strolled down the drive.

Quite ; because, Bessie, she might learn the
story in some shape at any time now. We
have thought it best to let the police know
everything, and though they promise not to

make unnecessary parade of the knowledge
we have afforded them it is quite possible
that they may have no help for it."

Were you right to tell them so much ? "
'* Yes, Bessie, I think so. One has no right
to keep back evidence that seems to bear upon
a great crime, or for the matter of that a little
one. In our case all 1 can say is the officer
in charge of the case seems to think we have
done Foxborough good service. I don't in
the least understand how, nor did he condescend
to explain, but, my darling, straightforward
policy generally seems to me to be
most profitable in this world in the long run.
Now, pet, give me a kiss, and then scamper
home, and remember you've sent a real happy
man on his road home to-night." So saying,
Phil clasped the girl in his arms, and claimed
lawful tribute from her freely yielded lips.

Good night ! and away with you," he said,
as he released her. " Don't be afraid, but
that, though she may weep a bit after your

story, Mrs. Fossdyke will be very pleased
with it on the whole. Once more, goodnight
! "

Bessie sped home with a light heart. Confession
to Mrs. Fossdyke might be awkward,
but what did it matter, Philip loved her.
She was Philip's now, spite of everything.
He knew all about her, and clasped her to
his breast, and called her his plighted wife,
and laughed at the idea of her poor biography
making any kind of difference in his feelings.
Ah ! yes, as Philip's fiancee and authorized
by him to tell it, what recked she if the
world knew her whole story. Personally she
knew she was blameless.

CHAPTER IV.

MR. CUDEMORE GETS Uncomfortable.

That men have infatuations about women
past comprehension, is an axiom as indisputable
in life as that a like is the shortest
distance between two points in mathematics.
What does he see in her ? " demand his
friends, angrily and with justice ; she maybe
vulgar, and even of dubious beauty, but
no matter, she has fascinated that man, it maybe
for days or it may be for ever, but though
of mature age he will be blind as a newly-born
puppy to her demerits. What does he
see in her ? Good Lord, he could not answer
that question in the least. He would tell
you that she was lovely, deny that she was

VOL. III. E

vulgar, and assert upon oath tHat her English
was faultless. Useless to reason with these
infatuated ones. Safer far to emulate that
astute philosopher, who upon being condoled
with about his brother's misalliance quietly
retorted : " What is there to howl about ?
Charlie would never have been happy with
a lady."

Mr. Cudemore was quite off his balance
about Nid Foxborough. He had fair grounds
for his infatuation. The girl was very pretty
and had been thoroughly educated. There
were none of the vulgarisms mentioned above
in her, but she had never given him the
slightest encouragement, nor had he indeed
ever been afforded much opportunity of pushing
his suit ; but for all that Mr. Cudemore
was most resolute in his determination to
marry her. He was working hard to get the
Syringa mainly into his own hands, and had
already, as he knew, assumed a control thereto
which he was by no means entitled. What

distressed him at present was not Nid's indifference
to his suit — that he was prepared
for ; but her mother's indifference to the loss
of the management of the Syringa.

Mr. Cudemore had already abandoned all
hope of carrying his point as a mere wooer,
but he did think pressure about the Syringa
might do wonders for him. To his dismay
Mrs. Foxborough seemed to care little whether
she stayed or left. He had trusted much
upon this leverage in the game he conceived
James Foxborough's death had opened out to
him. Another thing which had gone awry
with the money-lender was this. He was,
of course, aware that Herbert Morantt was
his successful rival. He had held some bills
of Morantt's, and Mr. Cudemore's experience
of young men told him that the first bill,
like the first woodcock, was but the precursor
of the flight. He had looked forward at no
little distance of time to having the young
man most thoroughly under his thumb, but

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

to his great astonishment Herbert Morantt had
promptly taken up his bills as soon as they
became due, and shown no wish to contract
fresh obligations ; consequent indeed on his
love for Nid and desire to set to work to
make a home for her ; but Mr. Cudemore
did not know all this, or I am afraid that
maledictions would have fallen from beneath
his well waxed moustache, thick and thorough.

He could not be said to be having a rosy
time of it altogether, this jackal that preyed
on the necessities of his brethren. Your professional
affairs may run favourably enough,
but most men have some aim utterly outside
that, and the mark that particularly attracted
Mr. Cudemore's attention at this moment
seemed considerably beyond his attainment.
Still he was of that pertinacious temperament
that sometimes achieves the fulfilment of its
desires by its dogged perseverance.

One thing, quietly as he had passed it by,
had struck Mr. Cudemore during his interview

with Mrs. Foxborough — to wit, lier
statement that the police no longer thought
her husband guilty of the Bunbury murder.
It was considerably to his interest, he thought,
that Foxborough should be held guilty of
that crime, and he resolved to call upon ^h\
Sturton, and endeavour to ascertain from
him what Scotland Yard had thought of the
information he had brought them.

The great Bond Street maestro was at
home, or, to speak more correctly, at his
place of business. As for home, he resided
in a charming house, standing in excessively
pretty grounds out in West Kensington, where
were plenty of servants, saddle and carriage
horses, a French cook, a Scotch gardener and
conservatories ; his sons were at the universities,
and though far more Conservative in
their professions than their father, with much
less real reverence for a lord. As Coleridge
had a contemptuous belief in ghosts such ashe
might hold in cabbages, because he had

seen so many of them, so bad these young
men discovered that hereditary rank was
simply the result of successful spoliation and
corruption in the days gone by, and its descendants
by no means gifted above the sons
of men. Mr. Sturton was at his place of
business, and Mr. Cudemore was at once
ushered into the sartorial potentate's private
sanctum — a simply furnished room at the
back of the shop, where Mr. Sturton, seated
at his writing-table, was quietly engaged in
answering the heavy batch of letters which
each morning brought him.

*' Ah ! Cudemore," he said, in his usual
languid manner ; " pray sit down ; excuse
me for two minutes while I just finish this,
and then I shall be ready to talk to you."

A few minutes, and then Sturton threw
down his pen, and pulling his chair round,
said quietly —

"Now, then, Avhat is it?"

He and Mr. Cudemore were not wont to

indulge in ceremonious calling upon each
other.

"What did they say to you at Scotland
Yard the other day ? " inquired the moneylender,
^.vithout further preamble.

You needn't feel the least uncomfortable
about my going there anyway, for your name
has never been mentioned, while mine they
promised to keep dark unless absolutely
compelled to bring it forward, which they
did not in the least anticipate. I saw Sergeant
Usher, the detective officer in charge
of the case, and he said my information
might turn out of great value to them, but
would probably never lead to their requiring
any evidence from me, and that certainly
at present they would infinitely prefer my
keeping my mouth closed on the subject."

I am told the police begin to think that
Foxborough did not commit the crime. Is
that true ? What does Sergeant Usher think
about it ? "

I am sure I don't know," replied Mr.
Sturton ; " and from what I saw of Sergeant
Usher, I should say he's very unlikely tolet
any mortal soul know his opinion on the
subject till he's got some one on his trial
for the murder. I should think he would
talk affably and apparently openly with you
for a week, and at the end of it you wouldn't
have discovered what he thought about anything.
I see a good bit of human nature,
you knows ; you can't help measuring men's
minds a little while you are measuring their
bodies, that is, if you are an artist. There
are customers who never know exactly wdiat
they want, and whom you may persuade todo
anything. Others who equally don't know
what they want, but suspect you if you
attempt to assist the wobbling ideas that
do duty with them for a mind ; there's the
customer you can't please, do what you will,
angular in body as in opinion ; there's the
man who hates trying on, hates ordering

clothes at all, and pays ready money ; there's
the man who delights in both the first, but
abhors the latter part of the ceremony.
Hasn't Carlyle written a book about it ? and,
good Lord ! if he had only had me to prompt
him ! Ours is one of the great arts, and the
day will soon come when it will be acknowledged
as such. You've K.A.'s, and I don't
see why there shouldn't be R.T.'s; and as
the age gets more advanced, and the general
fusion of things begins, there's no doubt,
there's no doubt whatever" — and here the
great democratic tailor stopped abruptly, his
tongue having a little overrun his defined
opinions upon the coming upheaval ; a thing
which happens notably to many of our legislators,
and accounts for the consequent abrupt
termination of some of the bursts of eloquence
with which they are wont to electrify their
constituents.

Mr. Cudemore was of a narrow-minded
but practical turn of mind. He stared with.

undisguised astonishment while his friend
delivered himself of the above rhapsody, but
would, had his thoughts been put into English,
have expressed himself somehow in this wise.

All men have their faults, I know. It's
the weak point in their organization which,
carried to excess, men call madness. Only
I know Sturton to be a thorough business,
practical man, I should wonder why his
friends didn't shut him up, that is to say,
if he ever lets out in this way to them. I !
hum, if I could, should charge him another
ten per cent, for it.

Then this Sergeant Usher didn't really
tell you he considered Foxborough had
nothing to do with the crime ? " remarked
Mr. Cudemore, at length.

Certainly not — what put that into your
head ? "

The papers, I believe," rejoined the moneylender
carelessly ; "and then I misunderstood
you about your interview at Scotland Yard."

"I told you clearly," rejoined Sturton,
that Usher, like a colourless photograph,
expressed nothing. Voluble, very, on occasions
; that is, it struck me, if I didn't talk ;
but mute as a mouse when I'd anything to
say. I know nothing about the opinion of
Scotland Yard whatever."

Ah ! well, I felt a little curious to know
what they thought of your confession," rejoined
Mr. Cudemore, rising, " and also
whether the making of it had brought you
peace of mind."

The sooner you understand I mean invariably
to take my own way the better,"
rejoined Sturton sharply, and with a quickness
that the money-lender had never given
him credit for. "It is very easy to transfer
such business as I have with you to another
of the fraternity."

And suppose I chose to bruit abroad our
former relations afterwards," rejoined Cude-
more, sullenly.

I should deliberately and as assuredly
ruin you. Fool that you are ! Can't you
see that small capitalists like you are at
the mercy of the bigger men who employ
them," retorted Mr. Sturton calmly. " All the
leading men in my profession are reported
to lend money to their customers whether
they do or not. You can't do me much
harm, but, my dear Cudemore, I shall
assuredly break you. I pull strings that your
limited mind has no conception of."

I don't want to quarrel," replied the
money-lender. " Unless with an object it's
always a mistake, but when you run counter
to my views I like to know the why of it.
We'll change the subject. How about you cormorant
? Is he still on your books ? he has
taken up all his papers ? "

No, that's the man who stands in your
way with Miss Foxborough, isn't he ? He
has squared up and left us, and when they
do that of their own accord it usually means

that they have taken to the business of life in
some fashion. Flying kites and West-end
tailors don't quite accord with such utilitarian
views."

The conversation was again verging a little
too deep for the money-lender, and it may be
doubted whether Mr. Sturton really comprehended
what he meant by his last observation.
A tendency to inflated language is one of the
characteristics of all platform oratory of the
present day. Mr. Cudemore thought there
was no more to be said, and no more to
be learned, so he gravely and impressively
wished the Bond Street magnate good-bye.
Somewhat staggered, Mr. Cudemore got out
of the house, having found this man of so
much tougher calibre than he had deemed
him, so utterly malleable and determinate
about having his own way. Still he did
recognize Sturton's grim formula that when
the brazen pots and the earthen quarrel it
is bad for the latter, and felt that to succumb

with grace to his principal's dictum was all
that was left to him. He had been slow to
perceive this, but was quite awake now to
the fact that this languid man had a most
peremptory weill of his own, and was hardly
to be turned from it.

Musing over this, to him by no means
pleasing discovery, he arrived at his house
in Spring Gardens, and proceeded, without
going into his office, to ascend the stairs to
his own private apartments. As he turned
the angle of the staircase, he caught sight
of his junior clerk coming, as it appeared to
him, out of his, Cudemore's, bed-room.

What the deuce are you doing up here ? "
inquired the money-lender, angrily, as the
pair met.

I came up to see if you were in, sir.
There's a gent of the name of Smithson
wanting to see you terrible bad."

Where's his card ? " inquired Mr. Cude-
more.

He hadn't got one," rejoined Tim, for
such \Yas the soubriquet by which the junior
clerk was known in the establishment ; doubtful
even whether his master knew his legitimate
patronymic.

*' Show him up then at once," rejoined
Cudemore.

He's left, sir ; said he would call again
in an hour, when he heard you were
out."

"How the devil did he hear I was out,
you young cheat-the-gallows, when you have
just made the discovery ? "

I told him I thought you were," replied
Tim, flippantly, " and he wouldn't wait till
I ran up to see "

'look here, my young friend, it strikes
me you're lying on a pretty extensive scale.
You knew I was out to begin with."

Certainly, sir, but I was not quite sure
you had not come in."

Clients who come to see me generally

leave or produce cards," said the moneylender.


Well, this one wouldn't' rejoined Tim,
doggedly.

"And what business, sir, had you to suppose
you would find me in my bed-room ? "

"I didn't. I went to look for you in your
sitting-room, and not finding you there ran
upstairs on the off chance, the door being
open I peeped in, you were not there, and I
thought it best to shut it behind me."

I could have taken my oath, almost, you
were co minor out of the room when I caught

o o

sight of you."

Well, it may be I'd had my neck and
perhaps a foot over the threshold. I'm very
sorry if I've done wrong, Mr. Cudemore, but
this gentleman was so urgent, and I really
didn't know whether you were in or out."

That'll do," replied the money-lender,
curtly, " but remember, if ever I find you
above the first floor again, you go, and with

no recommendation for further employment
from me''

Tim said nothing in return, but disappeared
promptly to his legitimate sphere.

"Now what was that cursed young liar
prowling about my bed-room for ? " mused
Mr. Cudemore, as he entered his sitting-room
and lit a cio'ar.

VOL. HI.

CHAPTER V.

Moran MEETS MISS HYDE.

When Phil went over to Dyke next day he
was most warmly greeted by Mrs. Fossdyke.

*' Sincere congratulations," she murmured.
*' You can't think how happy you have made
me ; that you two should come together has
been the wish of my heart this year past."

*^ Ah ! I suppose Bessie has told you all'
said Phil, emphatically,

'' All," replied Mrs. Fossdyke, " and I know
what a wretch I was to tease her about her
past, but it was not altogether my fault,
although at my age I've no business to
attempt to shift the blame to other people's
shoulders."

'' Nobody ever doubted who the real culprit
was, Mrs. Fossdyke ; but where is
Bessie ? '*

*' She will be down in a few minutes, but
I asked just to have you to myself for a little.
I've known you so long, Phil, and you've
always been such a favourite of mine that I
wanted to make my congratulations in
earnest. She will make you a good wife,
even though there be a stain in her pedigree."

'' I am very glad to hear you say that,
Mrs. Fossdyke, for, even assuming her stepfather
is the guilty monster which he is
alleged to be, and which every fresh discovery
seems to make more doubtful, it
would be too cruel to visit his crimes on
the head of this girl who never even saw
him."

I quite agree with you. I love her very
dearly, and though, of course, I can't repress
a little shiver as yet when I reflect upon
her connection with that — that man," faltered

F 2

Mrs. Foasdyke, "still, Philip, I hope you
don't think I could be unjust to Bessie."

You were so not very long back," thought
Philip, but he gave no utterance to the
reflection and merely bent his handsome head.
And now," continued Mrs. Fossdyke, " I
want to see the other one, this Mr. Morantt
who is enofao^ed to Bessie's unknown sister."

"Certainly; I was going to ask permission
to bring him out here, as I want him to know
Bessie ; but if I have leave to introduce him
to you also, I shall be only too delighted."

"Yes! I want to know him. Is he nice?
is he good-looking ? "

Good-looking ? Well, we men never can
quite tell what your sex will call so, or I'd say
decidedly not ; but he is a gentleman, and a
real o^ood fellow, Mrs. Fossdvke. He's been
an idler so far, but he's got a wife to work
for now, and, please God ! I'll make a man
of him here. I'm bound to say that, so far,
he faces his work like a bull-doo."

'' With that' incentive to work and you as
his tutor, Phil, I think he'll do," said Mrs.
Fossdvke, laughing: softly. " But brin him
out to see me, and I'll judge of his appearance
for myself."

Certainly ! " And as he spoke Miss Hyde
entered the room, and greeted her fiance with
a bright smile, to which he responded by
warmly embracing her.

Bessie, I've just obtained Mrs. Fossdyke's
permission ; nay, I may say more, her command,
to bring out your future brother-in-law
for your personal inspection."

You know I am as anxious to hear about
my sister and make his acquaintance as
Mrs. Fossdyke."

"Yes, and I'll ensure your hearing about
your sister," returned Philip, laughing; "no
intimate friend of Herbert's will miss that
at present, I fancy. '^

He will find me an interested listener,
at all events. When will you bring him ? "

"To-morrow, if that will suit you, Mrs.
Fossdyke. Lord, what friends you and he
will be, Bessie ! A woman who will be a
sympathetic recipient of a lover's outpourings
about the object wins his devotion. He will
at once pronounce her a very paragon."

And pray, Philip, who is the confidant
of your ' outpourings,' " said Miss Hyde, laughing.
" I presume from what you say such a
confidant is a necessity ? "

"Oh, yes, my dear," rejoined Philip, gaily,
there are times when I feel it a necessity
to dilate on your attractions, and then Til own
at first it came hard. Herbert has no idea
of fair play. He expects me to listen for
hours to prose poems about your sister, but
T regret to state he manifests as yet but a
cursory interest in hearing about you. Of
course I also had to find somebody to rave
to ; but I hadn't far to seek. I knew an old
friend who says, Bessie, if he could only take
ofi" twenty years you would have had to decide

whether he or I was the best man, and he'll
always listen while I chant your praises."

"Ah! that's dear old Dr. Inglebyby," said
the girl, as she slipped her arm through her
lover's. " I hardly dare think yet, Phil, that
we are going to be married, but if ever weare
he will have had as much to say to it
as the clergyman."

' Ever we are, child ? * What nonsense
you are talking. You know, dear Mrs.
Fossdyke, that out of respect to your poor
husband's memory neither of us would wish it
at present, but after a due interval I know we
shall have your best wishes and permission."

My very best wishes and hearty congratulations,"
replied the widow: "now runaway,
the pair of you. I know you must
have a lot to say to each other, unless things
have changed a deal from the days when I
was young."

** Certainly," replied Phil ; " I have got to
teach Bessie woman's duties as a wife."

'' Oh, Phil, Phil," said Mrs. Fossdyke, laughing.
" I know sou both better. Only make
her love you, and she'll want no teaching on
that point ; but till you slip the ring on her
finger it's woman's prerogative that her
word should be law ; and, Bessie, my dear
don't be false to your sex and forego the
privilege."

Come along, Bessie, come for a stroll ; and
as you are strong, be merciful. I bow meekly
to Mrs. Fossdyke's decision, but don't command
more chariots than a mere maltster can
afford you."

Don't chaff sour wife that is to be, Phil,"
said Bessie, with a low, rippling laugh. " You
know very well till she came to Dyke
cabs and omnibuses constituted her ideas of
chariots. No, dearest, I can promise two
things — to love you truly and develop no
lavish ideas on the subject of expenditure."

'^ A wise woman in her generation is Mrs.
Fossdyke," replied Phil, "and if you'll only

do the first I quite agree with her. I need
trouble about nothing else."

A slight pressure of his arm acknowledged
the speech, and then Bessie said, '' Mind, Mr.
Morantt brings out Nydia's photograph tomorrow.
I am so anxious and curious to
see it."

Of course," replied Philip ; ** but here
we are again at the gate. Still, Bessie,
saying good-bye to you now is not what
it was."

I trust not," she rejoined, softly. " You
will understand how different it seems to me
when T say * Kiss me, Phil,' and, mind, I must
see you tomorrow."

There was no mutiny on Philip Soames's
part against his lady-love's first behest, and
as he swung into Marlborough at a 
gait, there was perhaps no happier
young fellow in the United Kingdom. Dashing
into his own sanctum, he found Herbert
Morantt staring solemnly at the glowing

coals. Lifting his head, that gentleman
glanced at him for a moment and then exclaimed
—

No, don't, please ; I can't stand it. There's
wedding-bells in every line of your face. All
very well for you, who see marriage within
measurable distance, but for one to whom it
seems a mere possibility of the future — Ah ! "
sighed Herbert in conclusion.

Don't be a fool, and don't stare into the
fire till oppressed with the doldrums," rejoined
Soames, sharply. " Your marriage-bells are
within very reasonable reach, if you only stick
to the collar as you have done since you came
here."

You really think I shall make a brewer ? "
• asked Herbert.

"There's no doubt whatever about it, and
marry Nydia, and settle down at Baum-borough,
and become a vestry man, a town
councillor, and half a dozen other things of
which you at present comprehend nothing.

In the mean time I'm pledged tomorrow to
take you out to Dyke to introduce you to
Mrs. Fossdyke and Nydia's half-sister."

Yoa are awfully kind, Phil, but won't it —
won't it be just a little awkward ? "

*' Not at all ; that is all smoothed away.
Both ladies are dying to see you. Bessie
wants to hear all about her unknown sister,
and if you give her about a tenth of the
confidence you bestow upon me there won't
be much left for her to learn."

** Don't talk bosh, Phil ; I've never said
much to you about her."

Good Lord ! " exclaimed Soames, " am I
like this ? Are we fonder when we babble of
our love My dear Herbert, you discourse
of little else."

Come, look here, old fellow," exclaimed
Herbert, suddenly rising and lighting a cigar.
I may chip in about Nid when I get the
chance, but you are usually haranguing to
such an extent about the angelic qualities of

Miss Hyde I never get a fair opportunity to
tell you about Nid."

"Well, my boy," rejoined Phil, laughing,
you're not going to get it now. That cigar
should about settle your appetite for dinner.
I'm off to dress."

Good heavens ! it's not dressing time, is
it ? " said Morantt, turning abruptly to the
clock on the mantelpiece. " By Jove, you are
right," and as he spoke he hurled his fresh-lit
cigar into the fireplace. " Off we go, old man,
white tie and soap and water time."

That he unduly discoursed about Miss Fox-borough
was a fact that Mr. Morantt could not
possibly be convinced of. To use a horribly
common-place simile, he was in the position of
a man who snores ; unconscious of misdemeanour,
he is not to be persuaded that he has ever
been guilty of it. But he looked forward
immensely to being introduced to Bessie ;
although unaware that he gave rein to it, he
did know that to talk about Nid to any one

afforded him considerable pleasure, and, of
coarse, from Phil's account was quite certain
that Bessie was prepared to give ear to all he
might say about her newly-found sister.

Herbert Morantt was duly paraded at Dyke
next day, and cordially received by both
ladies.

"No, Philip," said Mrs. Fossdyke, in an
undertone, as Bessie carried the new-comer off
into the window to talk to; "there can be no
mistake about it, your friend is not a good-looking
man. No woman will ever think so."

I never thought so myself," rejoined
Soames ; " but what has that to say to it ?
He is a real good fellow, and I don't think
personal attractions, after all. Lave so very
much weight in love affairs. There are so
many of us, both sides, would never get
married if we entirely depended on that. I
know in old days how I have fought for a
dance with the belle of the ball, won it at last,
and never pleaded for another. I suppose

women are something like us : prone to be
smitten in the first place by an attractive
exterior ; but an angel who can only valse and
simper speedily disenchants most men who
have anything in them, and a plainer young
lady, who can not only dance, but talk a bit,
gives her handsome rivals the go by in the
long run."

You've won a wife, Philip, who can do
both," replied Mrs. Fossdyke, quietly.

*'I know it," he said, smiling; "but I am
exceptionally gifted amongst the sons of men."

I most sincerely trust and believe you are.
Nothing can bring my poor, dear husband
back to me, and for Bessie's sake and yours, T
wish the whole of this investigation could be
swamped. I feel no desire for vengeance, and
I should like the whole tragedy to be forgotten
by the public."

*' Spoken like your own true-hearted self,"
rejoined Soames ; and then he thought how
marvellously her great grief had transformed

Mrs. Fossdyke. The rather petulant, talkative
woman he had originally known was transformed
into a patient, considerate lady, taking
a kindly interest in all those surrounding her.

'' I am afraid, dear Mrs. Fossdyke, the
authorities, in the interests of justice, will not
quite allow that. That the police are quite at
fault this minute I firmly believe. You know,
and always shall, as much as I can learn.
What they may think exactly I can't say,
but so far I fancy they really are utterly
nonplussed."

And it would be best they were left so,
for many reasons," replied Mrs. Fossdyke,
*but this is beyond either your control or
mine ; but, Philip, should there be anything to
know you will let me hear it, will you not ? "

I promise faithfully. Do you think I
might venture to interrupt that couple in the
window ! "

Certainly," rejoined the widow, smiling.
You've allowed him to do a very fair

amount of raving about Miss Foxborough ;
you are quite entitled to do a bit of raving on
your own account now."

Phil Soames moved across to the window,
and said, —

Well, Bessie, do you begin to know your
sister ? "

"Yes, and have in some sense seen her.
No thanks to you though, sir, for it seems you
quite forgot my instructions."

"Oh dear yes, about bringing her photograph.
I plead guilty, and implore pardon ;
but I see Herbert happily brought it."

"Yes," replied Morantt, ''1 thought Miss
Hyde "

"Bessie," interrupted the girl, laughing.
How much oftener am 1 to tell you that.
I'm not going to be called Miss Hyde by my
brother-in-law. We are fast becoming great
friends, Phil. I know he's not brood enough
for Nid, though Pve never seen her ; and he
owns it."

'' Of course I'm not ; but then, Miss Bessie, I
know nobody ever will be, so it is not worth,
her while to wait till he comes by, but
she'll never find any one to love her more
dearly."

You love her better than Philip loves me,"
interposed Miss Hyde, not a little amused.

*' Oh ! that's a puzzler," rejoined Herbert;
there are weighing machines, — things to
calculate how hard you can blow, &c., but
science as yet hasn't got as far as weighing
your affections. If it had, Bessie, you would
see that though Phil would bring the scale
down, I should break the machine."

What a lucky girl my sister is, to be loved
like that. Immeasurable adoration," continued
Miss Hyde demurely ; "we can demand no
more."

"Now she's chaffing," exclaimed Morantt
rising. " Come, Phil, we had better go."

*'I shall keep this photograph, Herbert, asa
pledge of your speedy return, though such a

VOL. III. G

high-pressure adorer as yourself I've no doubt
has at least a dozen."

Yes, I can leave you that. I do happen to
have another — and now good-bye."

Bessie shook her head at him laughingly, as
she replied,

You'll never see this ao^ain. Another ! I
suppose he's an album full, Philip. Isn't
it sol"

I think he's another or two," rejoined
Soames, smiling. *' Good-bye, dearest. I'm
awful glad you two have made acquaintance."

Good-bye, Herbert," said Bessie. " Like
the dutiful helpmate I've promised to be, I
reiterate my lord and master's observation."

^^What do you think of her?" observed
Philip curtly, as the young men strode home
to Marlborough

Bar Nid ! she's just the nicest girl I ever
met," rejoined Morantt.

Ah ! I wanted you two to like each
other," rejoined Soames, "and I'm pleased

you do. Now, old man, I'll tell you what
we'll do. After dinner we'll go over and
smoke a cigar with the Doctor. He won't say
much to you, but he takes as much interest in
our love affairs as we do."

Nonsense ! What an old trump ! Smoke
with him, of course we will, Phil. A delightful
termination to a delightful day."

G 2

CHAPTER VI.

THE RIDDLE ABOUT SOLVED.

Sergeant Uglier was getting quite angry
with himself on account of his inability to put
his puzzle together. He had so great an insight
to the great Bunbury mystery that it
made him quite irritable he could not quite
explain it. A good deal that the public could
not comprehend was quite plain to him ; but
who was the confederate ? where was the
writer of that note ? It was not Foxborough's
writing, nor was it even an attempt to simulate
his hand ; he had ascertained that from people
whose testimony on the point was thoroughly
reliable, yet it must be in handwriting perfectly
familiar to the dead man or he would

never have so promptly attended to its behests.
It had become quite clear to Mr. Usher that,
much as he desired to keep that note in the
background, it was no longer possible ; as long
as that note reposed in the security of Mr.
Usher's pocket-book it was quite evident there
could be no opportunity for any one to recognize
the writer. The Sergeant was an enthusiast
in his profession, and had a whimsical
fancy for producing an important bit of testimony
at the last moment — hence his desire to
keep his treasure-trove of the Hoping a secret.
But it was clear to him now the enigma
could not be solved otherwise than by the
recognition of that handwriting. Nowhere, he
thought, was that more likely to be achieved
than by some of John Fossdyke^s old friends
at Marlborough, notably by Dr. Inglebyby, and
hither Mr. Usher determined to betake himself
without loss of time ; quite possible even Mr.
Totterdell might be the man he wanted.

And though," mused the Sergeant, '' he's

a blethenng old creature to get information
out of, still I mustn't throw away a chance
simply because a witness is a weariful, wandering
old nuisance."

As he whirled down by the afternoon train
Mr. Usher pondered a good deal upon where
he should commence this fresh inquisition.
He knew the Marlborough world by heart by
this time. The local gossip had revealed to
him a good deal of the ins and outs, the likes
and dislikes, of social life at Marlborough,
and he finally thought that perhaps he had
better begin with Mr. Totterdell.

'^ Mrs. Fossdyke would be likely to tell her
garrulous godfather as much as she knew of
her husband's affairs before the quarrel,"
mused Mr. Usher, " and, hang it, a woman
always knows a deal more than her husband
gives her credit for. It's quite likely he might
tumble to this handwriting at once. I'll begin
with him, and try Dr. Inglebyby afterwards if it
don't come off."

That Mr. Totterdell would be at lionie to
Sergeant Usher there was very little doubt.
The old gentleman was fidgety, and fuming
over the non-elucidation of the great Bunbury
mystery not a little. What were the police
about, he wanted to know ? When was he to
have an opportunity of coming forward ? For
he still laboured under the delusion that as
soon as his evidence had been taken properly
and at length, there would be no difficulty
whatever about the apprehension of the
murderer,

Well, Sergeant," he exclaimed testily, as
that officer entered the room, '' what is it now ?
It is singular you don't seem to be able to
move a step in this matter without my assistance,
and yet I can't get you to listen to what
I have to say."

'* That's just it, Mr. Totterdell; that's
exactly what I keep telling 'em in the Yard,"
replied Mr. Usher. " I can't make head or
tail of it myself, says I ; there's none of you

here can do any better. If there's one man in
England who can throw a light upon the truth
it's Mr. Totterdell. Just you let me go and
have another palaver with him. If this thing's
to be worked out, it's he and I have got to doit.
Do as you please, says they, and here I am.
With your permission, sir, I'll take a chair to
begin with. Nobody knows better than you
do that one can't exchange views upon a
matter of such paramount importance in a
harry."

Certainly not, Mr. Usher ; certainly not,
replied the old gentleman, with the utmost
complacency. " Sit down, by all means ; and
now wdiat have you got to tell me ? "

Well, sir," replied the Sergeant, smoothing
his hat with his handkerchief, " the boot
happens to be on the other leg. I was rather
in hopes you had something to tell me. A
gentleman like you on the spot, and gifted
with your keen perception in these matters,
I thought might have picked up something"'

Aud so I have' chuckled Mr. Totterdell.
It s a queer thing — a very queer tbhig ;
and I got at it bj accident. It don't seem
much to bear on the case, so we'll talk over
what you've been doing first."

Now what on earth, thought Mr. Usher, has
this blessed old image discovered ? Whether
it's any use or not, he of course knows no
more than the man in the moon, and the
attempt to get it out of him directly I know
v\all be a tedious, if not a hopeless, business.
I had better come the confidential dodge,
and give him a glimpse of this letter at
once, and then, likely enough, he'll boil
over.

^' Mr. Totterdell, I depend on you not to
disclose to a soul what I'm going to confide
to you," replied Mr. Usher, in a mysterious
whisper ; " but the fact is, I've got hold of a
scrap of writing of this James Foxborough,
the man you saw at the theatre, and I want
to know if you can recognize it as one of the

late Mr. Fossdyke's habitual correspondents.
You doubtless knew most of their handwriting
by sight — so intimate as you naturally were
with the family ? "

''Of course," replied Mr. Totterdell tenaciously,
for he had no knowledge whatever
of Fossdyke's business relations ; but he would
have committed himself to a very much bigger
lie at any time sooner than miss an opportunity
of gratifying his insatiable thirst for
gossip.

Well," said the Sergeant, producing the
note, still so carefully folded that there was
little more than the signature to be seen,
"do you know that handwriting ? for that
is the writing of the man who took John
Fossdyke's life."

'' God bless me ! " exclaimed Mr. Totterdell,
as he put on his spectacles. " You're sure of
this, Mr. Usher ? "

"As sure as if I had seen him commit the
murder. Do you know the hand ? "

Mr. Totterdell stared at it for some minutes,
and then said : " No, I never saw it before."

"All well, whenever I can catch hold of
anybody who can recognize that writing, I'll
clear up the Bunbury murder in less than no
time ; and now, Mr. Tottered, what have you
to tell me ? "

Well, it mayn't be much," said the old
gentleman ; " but it's odd, odd, you see. Sergeant
— deuced odd. I'm sure you'll agree
with me when you hear it, eh ? "

"I've got to hear it first," retorted Mr.
Usher shortly.

'' Of course, quite so, and I'm telling you
as fast as I can ; you're like that old fool
on the inquest who was always interrupting
my evidence," said Mr. Totterdell, angrily.

Mr. Usher, exercising wise discretion, made
no reply.

Well, I have made a curious discovery.
You must know when the Marlborough
Theatre was first mooted there was, of

course, a great question low the six thousand,
or so estimated for its erection were to be
raised. Poor Fossdyke proposed an extra
rate, and to get at the money gradually in
that wise ; but I, who had just come on the
Municipal Council, having ascertained that
we had something like that sum out at
mortgagee, suo-rested its beings called in and
used for the purpose instead of levying the
fresh rate."

*' Ah ! " exclaimed Mr. Usher, involuntarily.

*' Eh ! what ? something strikes you ? ''' said
Mr. Totterdell, peering over his spectacles
into the detective's face.

Quite right," responded Mr. Usher.
*' You always are, sir. I was thinking what
a thing it was for Marlborough when they
got you on the Town Council."

They might have done worse. Usher,"
replied Mr. Totterdell, blandly, and utterly
blind to the Sergeant's flagrant adulation.
'' Well, it's a rum thing, but though the

money was all right enough, though John
Fossdyke accounted for it all to a copper,
yet there never was such a mortgage
effected."

Ah ! " once more exclaimed JMr. Usher,
softly, " and what interpretation, Mr. Totterdell,
do you put upon that ? "

None, Mr. Usher, none, that is a thing
for a judge and jury to determine, like many
other facts I can testify to when I get an
opportunity."

*well, Mr. Totterdell, I'll not take up
your valuable time any more. You've the
keystone of the case, whenever we can really
get it complete ; but it's growing up, sir, it's
growing up. I see my way a little bit further
every day."

'' Capital," responded the old gentleman ;
'rand just between ourselves — quite between
ourselves, you know — where do you suppose
the scoundrel Foxborough is ? Have you any
clue ? "

'' Well, yes, I have," said Mr. Usher, rising ;
'but to a gentleman of your astuteness and
experience I needn't say mum's the word.
You understand, mum's the word," and so
saying the Sergeant bade Mr. Totterdell good
night.

Quite right, Mr. Usher, you can trust
me to keep things quiet. There's nobody
knows how to keep a quiet tongue better
than me. Mum's the word ! ha, ha ! Goodnight
! "

Yes, you are right for once, it is," quoth
the Sergeant. " You'll tell nobody this time,
because you've nothing to tell ; but the puzzle's
piecing out beautifully. If anybody can identify
this handwriting I'll tell 'em the whole
story pretty near of the Bunbury mystery.
Half-past nine. Yes, not a bit too late to call
upon Dr. Inglebyby. I don't suppose he will
know this handwriting, but it's worth trying.
At all events this run to Marlborough has
been good business. I've got an important

little bit of evidence out of the Totterdell
creature which just clinches the thing."

Thus ruminating Mr. Usher arrived at the
Doctor's door, and, after his wont, followed
very close on the heels of the servant who
announced him.

He found the Doctor tranquilly enjoying a
cigar, and listening to the gay castle-building
of Herbert Morantt and Phil Soames. The
former especially had one of those constitutionally
sanguine temperaments that run up
palaces on the slightest possible foundations.
Their palaces, it is true, come down about their
ears like the card houses of childhood, but no
whit dismayed, they re-erect them with exactly
the same happy carelessness that characterized
their nursery days. Dr. Inglebyby enjoyed all
this immensely, to the quiet, sober, matrimonial
dreams of Phil Soames, or the resplendent
visions of Herbert Moraut, he listened with
the keenest interest. He liked both the young
men, and it was good to listen to their

healthy love stories, to contrast cool, steady
Phil's strong, steadfast devotion with excitable
Herbert's passionate adoration. They loved,
these two, quite as earnestly as they were
capable of; but neither men nor women
experience the passion in quite the same
fashion.

Well, Sergeant," exclaimed Dr. Inglebyby.
Sit down first, say what it is to be next,
wine or alcohol, and then tell me what you
want. You I know are much too busy a man
to pay calls of ceremony. It's not your health,
is it ? "

"No, Doctor," rejoined the Sergeant, laughingly.
" It's not my health, and I'll call it
port if you'll allow me. It's just a little
matter of business. I've got this Bunbury
business mapped out to a T but for one
trifling bit of evidence, and I thought I'd
just consult you and Mr. Soames about that.
Here's my respects," said the Sergeant, as he
topped off the bumper of port the Doctor had

poured out for him, 'rand very good tipple
It is."

*' Well, I'm very glad you are getting at
the bottom of the mystery," rejoined Dr.
Inglebyby, " but it's a question whether these
two gentlemen or Mrs. Fossdyke will appreciate
it. I fancy they would all rather it died
out and was forgotten."

Now, listen to me, gentlemen. It can't
be allowed to die out and be forgotten, it
would be an everlasting reproach to ' the
Yard' if it was. I don't quite know that
you'll any of you like the story when we
come to it, and come to it we shall, but if it's
relief to your mind to know James Fox-borough
didn't kill Mr. Fossdyke, either by
accident or design, you may take my word, he
had nothing to say to it."

The trio started at the speaker in blank
amazement.

"No, gentlemen," continued the Sergeant,
'* I don't turn my cat out of the bag until I'm

VOL. III. H

quite certain I can catch her again. What
have I come here for? As the Doctor says,
if it ain't my constitution gone wrong, what
is it ? Well, it is this, both you and Mr.
Soames, Doctor, must have known something
about Mr. Fossdyke's friends and correspondents."


"His friends, yes," rejoined the Doctor,
his correspondents, no. He was an extremely
reticent man about his business transactions,
and intimate as I was with him I knew
Dothinor of them."

"And you, Mr. Soames?" asked the

detective. -

Still less, if that be possible. He was

scarce likely to confide in a young man like

me what he concealed from an old friend like

Dr. Inglebyby."

Unlucky, but I'm afraid then, gentlemen,

you can't help me ; however, as I have come

to see Dr. Inglebyby for a specific purpose, I'm

going to play the cards out."

Mr. Usher dived into this breast-pocket fora
moment, and then from the depths of a
formidable pocket-book produced the famous
letter, folded still so that little but the signature
was decipherable. "Do you know that
handwriting, sir ? " he asked, as he handed it
to Dr. Inglebyby.

Not in the least," replied the Doctor, after
a cool and steady investigation.

And you, Mr. Soames ? " inquired the
Sergeant, as he pushed the piece of paper
across.

Phil stared at it for some minutes, and then
replied as he returned it, " No ; to the best
of my belief I never saw that handwriting
before."

It's hard, very hard," remarked the Sergeant
; " to know who wrote those few lines
is to put the prettiest and most interesting
case complete before the public I ever took
charge of; and yet, dash me, I'm beat on that
point, though there must be hundreds of

H 2

people who could testify to it. D d if I

don't have it photographed and inserted as an
advertisement in all the dailies."

May I look at it, Mr. Usher ? " inquired
Morantt.

Oh, Lord, yes. I meant to keep it dark,
but anybody's welcome to see it now."

Herbert scanned as much as he was allowed
to see of the note for a few minutes, and then
as he threw it back across the table to the
detective, said quietly, " I am pretty certain I

know who wrote that. It was ^"

*' Hush, sir ! for God's sake, hush ! " cried
Sergeant Usher, springing to his feet. " I'm
going to ask you for forty eight hours to let
nobody but myself know the name. If he's in
England I shall be able to lay my hand upon
him by that, but leakage, gentlemen, is fatal
in these inquiries. If you don't know you
can't let anything out. Isn't it so ? You'll
forgive me. Dr. Inglebyby, and you, too, Mr.
Soames, when I once more say — See me to the

door, please, Mr. Morantt ; tell me the name,
and tell nobody else for two days."

I think you may do what the Sergeant
asks you," said "Dr. Inglebyby ; " Phil's curiosity
and mine can last out forty-eight hours.
Good night, Mr. Usher ; I know you want to
be off now. See him to the door, Morantt, and
breathe your secret on the threshold."

'that's it, sir — that's it; good night,
gentlemen. Come, Mr. Morantt."

With which words, Herbert and the detective
disappeared.

CHAPTER VII.

MK. CUDEMORE's love-making.

Dogged, persistent, and defiant as Mr.
Cudemore is in his resolve to marry Nid
Foxborough, still he is not altogether quite
satisfied with the way his cards are playing.
To begin upon, he had reckoned when Fox-borough's
disappearance threw the Syringa, so
to speak, in the hollow of his hand, that Mrs.
Foxborough would be at his feet ; that her
anxiety to retain the leadership of the music-hall
would render her perfectly subservient to
his wishes, and that Nid's hand was to be the
price of his assistance he had made up his
mind. But Mrs. Foxborough seemed very
indifferent as to whether she kept the Syringa

or not, whilst as for Nid, she was difficult to
catch sight of ; still when the pressure really
came, when it was actually brought home to
her that unless she begged help from him,
Cudemore, her anxiety to retain the management
of the music-hall might be unavailing,
he fancied Mrs. Foxborough would be only too
glad to come to terms. Another thing, too,
that somewhat disturbed Mr. Cudemore's
equanimity was the discovery of Timothy on
the second floor. What the deuce was the
boy doing up there ? He might say he was
only closing the dressing-room door, but the
money-lender was quite convinced in his own
mind that he really came out of the room.
The boy had never come up to that floor
before to seek him, what made him do it this
time ? His people always knew pretty well
whether he was in or out ; and it was in the
sitting-room on the first floor that they looked
for him, if in doubt. He could never recall to
mind either of his clerks, senior or junior,

seeking him on the floor above. There was no
one less likely to stand his affairs being pried
into than Mr. Cudemore, and that gentleman
speedily made np his mind that Timothy's
services might be advantageously dispensed
with. He accordingly sent for that acute
young gentleman into his private business-room
and blandly remarked —

"You are a very intelligent and excellent
boy, Timothy, but you might remember I
expect my people to keep close to their own
business and not trouble themselves about
anything further. I engaged you, remember,
as second clerk at the liberal salary of fifteen
shillings a week, and your duties were confined
to the reception of visitors in the outer
office, and ascertaining if I was upstairs
whether I wished to see them or not."

Well, sir, how was I to know whether
you was in or not if I didn't come to see."

Just so, Timothy, but you weren't required
to look under the bed or into the bath for me.

or to overhaul my boots or brush my clothes,
Timothy. It was considerate in the extreme
taking upon yourself the duties of a valet as
well as a clerk, but you see I prefer my people
to confine themselves to what I am paying
them for, and therefore, my young friend, here
are your week's wages, and henceforth I will
dispense with your valuable services."

I suppose I needn't come no more, then,
after to-night," rejoined the boy doggedly.

Just so, that's it. I shall have no objection
to give you a recommendation, and
vouch that you are willing and intelligent ; a
little too willing, in fact, anxious apparently
to do everything. Next time, my boy, whatever
it may be, take my advice and stick
closely to your own business."

Timothy said never a word, but picked up
his money, and with a quiet bow to his
employer returned to the outer office, over
which he still held sway.

Now, this again somewhat puzzled Mr.

Cudemore. He expected the boy to plead
vigorously against dismissal, to volunteer
further explanation of his conduct, and
Timothy had done nothing of the kind, but
acquiesced with dogged resignation in his
sentence. It was not very likely that anything
he could say would have made the
slightest difference to Mr. Cudemore, but then
that gentleman did expect him to say it, and
to one of his suspicious turn of mind this
afforded grave food for reflection. Mr. Cude-
more engaged in a good many transactions
that, though not illegal exactly, were of the
kind denominated shady. He was not wont
to trust his clerks very much about anything,
more especially was he unlikely to place
confidence in a boy like Timothy ; he certainly
could call to mind nothing of the slightest
consequence of which the boy had knowledge,
and yet he felt uneasy at Timothy's easy
acquiescence in his dismissal. Another curious
circumstance, too, was that the mysterious

gentleman who declined to leave his name,
had never called again.

Musing somewhat irritably over all these
things, Mr. Cudemore seized his hat and
determined to call at Tapton Cottage.

He was so peremptory in his demand to see
Mrs. Foxborough on a matter of business, that
the girl who opened the door succumbed at
once and ushered him into the drawing-room,
before Nid, who was coiled up in a big armchair
in front of the fire immersed in a novel,
had any notice to escape.

Miss Foxborough," exclaimed Cudemore,
this is indeed an unexpected pleasure," as he
advanced to take a hand which was not
extended to him.

Nid had sprung to her feet and greeted him
with the most formal reverence ; and how
stately the little lady could be when she
stood upon her dignity, must have been seen
to be believed. Cudemore was a bold reckless
roue, and wild about this girl, and

both Nid and her mother knew it, as only
women do know these things. A chit not
out of the school-room knows intuitively
when a man is at her feet. But to do Nid
justice no young lady was ever less proud
of a conquest than she, whilst we already
know Mrs. Foxborough's opinion on the
subject.

'^ Let mamma know at once, Ellen, that
Mr. Cudemore is here," said Nid imperiously.

Yes, Miss," rejoined the parlour-maid, and
she knew at once from her young mistress's
authoritative tones that she had done wrong
to admit the visitor.

Pray tell Mrs. Foxborough that it is
nothing pressing, and that my time is hers,"
exclaimed Cudemore, boldly, as Ellen turned
to leave the room.

Very angry was Nid at the man's manner,
but still he had got into the house and must
be treated with some sort of courtesy. So
she motioned him to a chair.

If you knew, Miss Foxborough, how I
have longed for this opportunity."

Mamma, I'm sure, won't keep you
waiting long," replied Nid, with wilful misapprehension,
albeit a little defiantly.

It is you I want to speak to more than
your mother," he replied. " Young women
are not blind, and there is no need for me to
tell you how passionately I love you."

*' You couldn't expect me to listen to such
language at this time under any circumstances,"
rejoined Nid nervously. " You seem
to forget, sir, the affliction that overshadows
us, the gloom that hangs over the house."

I speak, Nydia, because first there is
further misfortune threatening you. Your
mother will lose the Syringa unless she listens
to my counsel."

Meaning," cried Nid springing to her feet,
with her cheeks aflame and her eyes ablaze,
*' that my miserable self is the price you
propose for such assistance."

"You're not in the least miserable ; on the
contrary, you're devilish pretty," he replied,
insolently, ^' and never looked handsomer than
you do this minute."

*' I'll not stay here to be insulted," exclaimed
Nid. '' Were my father alive you would never
have dared make that speech to me ; as it is
you may chance to rue it bitterly."

I've not heard of your father's death,"
replied Cudemore, coarsely, as he placed himself
between her and the door. '' But if you
are threatening me with the vengeance of the
red-haired admirer, I tell you I am not much
alarmed."

He's a man, sir," cried Nid furiously,
*' which you are not ! He's a gentleman, sir,
which you are not ; and were he in the room
you would be on your back on the floor this
minute ! "

Bah ! " replied Cudemore contemptuously.
*' Listen to me, Nydia. Herbert Moraut is a
broken man. He has no money ; he never

will have ; there are some men who have no
faculty for making it : he is one. Marry me,
and you shall have carriages, diamonds, and
all that woman's soul rejoices in."

*some women, perhaps," rejoined Nid, with
a contempt bitter as his own. " Go into the
market, Mr. Cudemore, and buy for your seraglio
if you will, but never insult me again with
what you are pleased to term your love. You
don't even know the meaning of the word."

I understand it in my own manner''
laughed the money-lender, ** and a more
tempting little morsel was never put before an
epicure than you. Don't be ridiculous, child.
Do you think your sentimental idealism of
that passion will long survive darning socks
and cooking mutton-chops for that red-headed
calf in a second floor at Publico. I offer you
again a good house, a French cook, and your
milliner's bills shall be paid and not looked at.
What is it you see in him to out balance all
this?"

Nid drew herself up to the full extent of her
small stature, and then said, '' He is simply a
gentleman, sir, which you neither are nor ever
will be. He loves a woman and doesn't
propose to buy her. Fve never been so
insulted in my life. Let me pass."

Not without a kiss, my beauty," cried the
money-lender, his brutal nature stung to
madness by her last speech ; and as he spoke
he caught the girl in his arms and impressed
three or four passionate kisses on her cheeks.

You brute, you beast," cried Nid, more
vehement than lady-like in her language.
Help, mother ! where are you ? " As she
spoke the door opened, and Mrs. Foxborough
entered.

How dare you, Mr. Cudemore ? " she cried,
all aflame at the sight of Nid struggling in his
embrace. "You coward, to dare lay a hand
on my child."

I apologize," replied the money-lender, ashe
released the girl; "my passion, I own.

overcame conventionalities. I apologize to
you ; I apologize to Miss Foxborough, though
her attractions are enough to turn any man's
head. Still, remember in extenuation, I have
offered her marriage, and a superb establishment."


Which have been indignantly rejected,'^
cried Nid impetuously through her tears.
I would sooner earn my living by sweeping
floors, than be his wife''

Listen, little lady. I've tried to win you
by fliir promises, such as men most dazzle
women's eyes with. Now hear the other side
of the question. Marry me, or out your
mother goes of the Syringa the day the foreclosure
of the mortgage can be enforced."

"And out she will go," rejoined Mrs. Fox-borough
fiercely, " and reck little about it.
In the mean time I'll trouble you to leave
this house, and never set foot in it, nor lay
hand on its knocker again."

o

Good," returned the money-lender, in a

VOL. III. I

low voice that trembled with passion. " Yoa
are right, Mrs. Foxborough, to turn from your
door the one man who might perchance clear
your husband's character. You hold it in
great esteem now ; when you are a little more
enlightened, perhaps you may change your
opinion''

"My poor husband, I have no doubt,
I shall never see more," replied Mrs. Fox-borough
proudly ; " and you can hardly expect
his wife and daughter to listen calmly
to insults to his memory. You have abbacy,
by your brutal insolence, frightened this child
to death," continued Mrs. Foxborough, clasping
the excited and beautiful girl closer in
her embrace. " Leave the house this instant,
or I shall call in the assistance of the police ;
and, mark me, I neither desire nor will continue
to manage the Syringa while it involves
meeting you in any way."

I will spare your invoking the assistance
of the police," replied Cudemore, brutally ;

they have had rather more than their fair
share of surveillance of this house lately.
You will regret your rude rejection of my offer
before many weeks are over, believe me.^'

Mrs. Foxborough's sole reply was a contemptuous
motion to the door, and with an
ironical bow, Mr. Cudemore took his departure.

I couldn't have believed a man of education
could be such an utter brute," sobbed
Nid, who, plucky as she had been through the
tempest, had now broken down completely.
Again she passed her handkerchief across her
face, and at last murmured, '' Pah ! Mother
darling, I must go and wash it ; the stain
of his filthy kisses is on my cheek still, and
every one an insult, though, thank God, not
treachery to Herbert."

Go and lie down a bit, pet. You are a
little upset, and no wonder, at such a trying
scene. One word more, darling. I wouldn't
say anything about it when I wrote to Herbert
if I were you. It would only lead to

I 2

unpleasantness for him, which I'm sure you
don't want, and I'm quite able to take care
you shall never be so insulted again. Trust
your mother, sweet, and call in Herbert when
she fails you."

*ras if I didn't always, and as if she ever
did fail me," cried Nid impetuously ; and
having given Mrs. Foxborough a hug, the
girl ran off to her own room.

*' Confound it," muttered Mr. Cudemore.
*' I've made a pretty mess of things. I always
do lose my head about a woman ; that child
looked so pretty to-day, and riled me so
awfully, I couldn't resist taking the sauciness
out of her. Besides, who could guess the
little fool should make such a fuss about a
kiss ? They don't usually, so far as my
experience goes."

Mr. Cudemore's experience had been gathered
in a somewhat meretricious school,
where the prompt, audacious, and especially
the wealthy lover, was highly appreciated.

CHAPTER VIII.

"breast-high scent."

Men of Sergeant Usher's profession, like
all men engaged in the hard practical business
of life, are as speedy in resolve as quick
in execution. The detective conned the
information he had just acquired on his way
to his hotel, where he immediately paid his
bill, then threw himself and his bag into
the omnibus which, as he knew without
looking at the time table, caught the last
train to town. There are many problems
solved on the railway in these days ; it is
bound to be so. Look at the many hours
business and professional men pass on it,
and that they should think out intricate

problems in the easy embrace of a first-class
carriage is but natural.

'' It's a beautiful case' mused Mr. Usher.
I don't know that I ever had the solving
of a prettier puzzle. How beautiful it begins
to piece out. I could almost tell the public
the whole story now, but I've a few minor
links to collect before the chain of evidence
is complete. I don't think the public will
regard the police as duffers much longer
when they've heard my exposition of the
Bunbury mystery."

Now, let me see," continued Mr. Usher,
"the first person IVe got to see is Miss
Lightcomb, and the first thing I want is
a copy of the 'Era' to ascertain where she
may be ; that I'll buy at Charing Cross ;
just a few words at the Yard to tell them
what to do, and tomorrow morning I'm off
to have a quarter of an hour's talk with
Miss L." On arrival at the terminus Mr.
Usher, having possessed himself of the

principal theatrical journal, took a cab and
drove home to his lodgings in Spring Gardens.
A few minutes' study of the ' Era ' showed
him Miss Lightcomb was at present enacting
leading lady at the Theatre Royal, Plymouth.

It's a nuisance," muttered the Sergeant,
but I am used to it ; important witnesses
always do get into remote corners when
specially wanted ; here's this girl plays at
Margate, when I can make no particular
use of her, and now I want to see her special,
of course, she's got to the other end of the
kino-clem. Well, there's nothing for it but
just to give 'em instructions, over the way
(and here Mr. Usher jerked his head in the
direction of Scotland Yard), and be off to
Plymouth by the first train in the morning."

Arrived there, the Sergeant naturally proceeded
to the theatre and inquired for Miss
Lightcomb. On explaining who he was he
was furnished with her address, and at once
departed in quest of the lady. But here he

was once more disappointed, the actress had
gone to a picnic party, and would only return
in time to fulfil her duties at the theatre.
Musing sadly over the absurdity of a witness
in a great murder case condescending to the
frivolity of picnics, and reflecting that after
all Miss Lightcomb had very little conception
that she could give .any evidence whatever
concerning the Bunbury mystery, Mr. Usher
remembered that it was time to sustain
nature, and went off in search of something
to eat. Like an Indian on the war trail,
the Sergeant could do without either food
or sleep if exigencies required it, but as an
old campaigner he understood the husbanding
of his resources, and neglected taking in
neither when a lull in affairs permitted. He
meant returning to town by the night mail
if he could, but he had come down to have
ten minutes' talk with Miss Lightcomb,
and, of course, was not going back till he
had achieved that. But the actress only

arrived at the theatre just in time to dress
for her role, which, as it happened, was a
heavy one, and sent word upon receiving
Mr. Usher's card that it was impossible she
could see him till after the performance, so
the Sergeant was fain to sit and pass critical
judgment on Miss Lightcomb's histrionic
powers in the " Bride of the Caucasus." But
the curtain fell at last, and then Mr. Usher
made his way rapidly behind the scenes.

I cannot say 1 am glad to see you," said
the actress, as the Sergeant entered her .
*' You frighten me, and I really
know nothing of this Bunbury mystery."

*' Now, don't you be alarmed. Miss Light-comb.
Nobody for one moment supposes you
do, or that there is any little bit of information
you would not willingly put at our disposal
if you only fancied it bore the least upon the
case."

I have told you I cannot recollect all
who spoke to me that night, there were so

many gentlemen complimented me on my
acting," rejoined Miss Lightcomb wearily.

The girl was tired out with her day's
pleasure, and her night's acting, and was
anxious to get her supper and go to bed,
and had no fancy for being cross-examined
by Mr. Usher.

'^ Don't you get fidgety, Miss Lightcomb,"
replied the Sergeant, taking in the state of
things at a glance. " I shan't detain you
three minutes. Do you know the original
of this photograph ? " and as he spoke he
produced the carte of John Fossdyke.

No," rejoined the actress after glancing
at it.

I didn't suppose you would," rejoined Mr.
Usher. " Now, do you know Mr. Cudemore ? "

Certainly, of course. Why ? "

Didn't you speak to him behind the scenes
on the opening night of the Marlborough
Theatre ? "

Yes, now you mention it, I recollect I

did," replied Miss Lightcomb, after a minute
or two's reflection. " I remember being so
surprised at seeing him there."

I need not detain you another moment,
Miss Lio'htcomb, that is the one fact I wanted
from you. If I don't tell you what it means
the daily papers will in three days' time. If
you could only have recollected that when I
called upon you at Margate."

I'm sure I'm very sorry, Mr. Usher, but
really his name never occurred to me."

I know it. Of course it is difficult seeing
so many new faces, as you must do, to recollect
who you may speak to on any particular
night, and unluckily I wasn't in a position
then to assist your memory."

But surely I shan't be called upon to
appear in court ? " asked the actress, somewhat
dolorously.

I am afraid," replied the Sergeant, " you
will, but you won't be detained five minutes in
the box, and you must comfort yourself that

disagreeable as it is for a lady it will bring
your name prominently before the public,
and prove a valuable professional advertisement.
If you have only a friend or two on
the press it may do you a deal of good in the
long run ; and now I'll wish you good night,
with many apologies for giving you so much
trouble."

Very polite and considerate was Sergeant
Usher, and Miss Lightcomb's horror at the
idea of being compelled to appear in the
witness box, was considerably mollified at the
idea of what a great gratuitous advertisement
the being mixed up in such a cause celebre
would be for her. Moreover, she had so little
to do with the whole thing, and was so utterly
innocent in the matter that she felt pretty
safe from awkward questions. Mr. Cudemore
had never been more to her than an ordinary
acquaintance.

The ubiquitous Usher was off to town by the
morning train, and drove, as usual, first visit

to head-quarters, there to learn that, according
to his instructions, Mr. Cudemore had never
been lost sight of, and could be laid hands
upon at any moment ; that he had apparently
no intention of absconding, but that he was
watched day and night, and would be arrested
at once should he show a sin of doings

No, let him alone another day or two.
It's a lovely case, and upon my soul, when
I've got it complete, I must put the bracelets
on him myself," replied the Sergeant, " but
never let him out of sight, mind."

It's risky. Usher," said one of his colleagues.
" A cunning fox like this, with
command of money, may slip you any
moment, watch him close as you like. You
know best what reason you have now for
leaving him at large, but mind, once lost
sifi^ht of, he may take a deal of catching."

Eight you are, Dickinson," replied Mr.
Usher, rubbing his hands softly ; " but an
artist like yourself would do as I do. It's

one of the most perfect riddles ever I solved,
and I have only two more inquiries to make.
One in London, and another in BaumborougL
Superfluous, it might be urged, and quite to
be gone into after you had jugged your bird,
but I do like to get my case quite complete
before I pounce."

*' I know it, oil man," replied Dickinson,
laughing, " only don't wait to pounce till
there's nothing to pounce upon. Remember
a hawk may hover too long."

Never fear, never fear," rejoined the
Sergeant, 'this one won't slip us, I'll go
bail," and with this observation Mr. Usher
betook himself to the Wellington Restaurant,
Spring Gardens, to dine.

The Sergeant greatly affected this place.
It was a quiet, modest little dining-room,
close to his own lodgings, frequented by
sedate, steady-going people who lived in the
immediate vicinity. Bank clerks, lawyers'
clerks, &c., but nobody who affected seldom

ever appeared across its threshold any more
than did the kentish or raffish element ol
London life. It was too slow for these latter,
a terra incognita to the former. That a
detective officer should be a mere shade, or
impersonality, or abstract fact is no doubt
true, but still they must be known to some
few people, and at the Wellington the famous
Sergeant Usher was both known and respected.

Something to eat, quick, William," he
observed to the waiter, as he made his way
to a rather favourite corner table.

Pea soup, sir, a nice slice of cod, and a
beef steak would perhaps about meet the case,
Mr. Usher," returned William, who was quite
a privileged functionary with the habitues.

That's about it," rejoined the Sergeant,
with i\ pint of stout and a little hot grog to
follow."

Very good, sir, I'll give 'em the order at
once," and the waiter bustled away. He soon
returned, and whisking about the table after

the fashion waiters have when business is
slack, of putting a knife straight there,
shifting a cruet-stand from one side the table
to the other here, and then taking a glass
into custody on suspicion of not being quite
clean, and putting it through a severe course
of polishing with the napkin under their arm,
combined with a rearrangement of the three
or four sticks of property celery always on
hand in such places in the winter season.

At last he bustled out and returned with
the stout and the soup.

There's been a boy hanging about here,
]\lr. Usher, very anxious to see you all
yesterday and to-day. Don't know what he
is exactly, but he's in one of these offices up
the way. He's a slate of cold meat here at
lunch time now and again, and is wolfish
about the vegetables, but he ain't a bad
sort for his time of life. Never forgets his
penny, sir, to me, and pennies ain't plentiful
with him, neither, I'd bet."

Then why do you take it from lum ? "
asked the Sergeant drily.

Now, Mr. Usher, what is the use of
talking like that. Did you ever know of a
waiter who refused his fees ? No, sir ; and
what's more," continued William, dropping
his tones to a mysterious whisper, ''' if
any one of us did, it's my impression he'd
quickly become a case for your professional
investigation."

Go and get the fish ! " retorted the
Sergeant, grimly.

*' Certainly, sir, certainly," arid William
vanished, only to return speedily with a
handsome slice of boiled cod.

But about this boy, sir. I really have to
pretend not to see him, he's that wolfish
about the greens, and — God bless my soul,
sir, here he comes."

As he spoke, Tim entered the room, and
at once seeing the Sergeant in the almost
empty room, for the detective was dining at

VOL. III. K

a rather nondescript hour, walked straight
to his table.

"Mr. Usher, sir, isn't it?" inquired Tim.

Yes, my lad," replied the Sergeant, quietly.

And I see by the papers you are in
charge of the great Bunbury murder."

Just so."

*' Well, there's a deal of money for any one
who'll Q-ive information concerning it."

Now, look here, my boy, don't you fall
into any mistake of that sort. There's £200
for anybody who can give information that
may lead to the apprehension of James
Foxborough. Offer withdrawn to-night, because
I know where to find him."

Then if I'd a bit of valuable information
to give I should get nothing for it," replied
Tim, in a disappointed voice.

No, I don't say that, you would get something,
but certainly not £200 nor anything
like it. William, you had better go and look
after the steak, and you needn't hurry with

it for the next five minutes," added the
Sergeant, significantly.

Now, my hid, look here, I know all about
you. You're Cudemore's clerk, that's what
you are."

For a minute Timothy stared in simple
awe of the omniscient detective, whose
knowledge in this case was by no means
singular ; then he replied, " I was, but he's
discharged me''

Ha, what for ? "

*' I don't know, exactly, it may be he
thought I knew too much. He ' caught me
coming out of his bedroom, where I admit,
Mr. Usher, I'd no business. He said he
had hired me as a clerk, and not as a valet,
and gave me the sack there and then."

*' He was about right," rejoined the Sergeant
; " you're one of those young gentlemen
who are just a shade too sharp to live."

*' No ; but, Mr. Usher, if I could tell you
where Mr. Cudemore was on the day of the

K 2

Banbury murder, what would you give me
for that ? "

Nothing ; what's it got to do with the
case ? "

I don't know, but it might have."

*' Precisely, and so might your dismissal ;
but it don't strike me as bearing much upon
it?"

Then I suppose it's no use saying anything
more," rejoined Tim, doggedly.

You know best about that. You know
best what put it into your head that Mr.
Cudemore's journey to Bunbury had anything
to do with the Hoping murder."

You know that ? " exclaimed Tim, and
his open mouth and utter bewilderment
really tickled the detective's vanity more than
anything he had encountered for some time.

'' Of course I do, and everything else about
it. Look here, my lad, I can do perfectly
well without you, but if you really have any
evidence to give, now's your time, and you

must leave it to me to appraise. It may be
worth a fiver, but I doubt it. Seem ember I
can find you any time, and make you speak
now."

Tim was utterly crushed. He recognized
that the great detective carried too many
guns for him, and it was quite meekly he
replied, " Well, sir, all I know is this, there's
a Bunbury railway label on Mr. Cudemore's
portmanteau, and that he returned from the
country the morning the murder was discovered,
and has never been out of town
since."

That'll do, my lad. You'll make a pound
or two out of that ; leave your address here,
and now you can go, I'm tired. Come along
with that steak, William, and bring me six of
Irish hot, please."

Timothy slowly left the place with a respect
for Sergeant Usher that bordered on grovelling.

CHAPTER IX.

LOOKING OUT THE KEYSTONE.

Sergeant Usher over the Banbury mystery
is now a sight for the Gods, as the okl books
say. One can understand it ; when we have
achieved the solution of any great mental
problem there is always an inclination, speaking
figuratively, to stand upon our head or
throw our hat into the air ; notable especially
in the solving of that great annual spring
riddle on Epsom Downs, when those who have
successfully elucidated the great conundrum
are wont to express their satisfaction in
fantastic fashion.

It's a lovely puzzle," chuckled Sergeant
Usher, as he smoked his pipe in his own

lodgings m Spring Gardens, " and it's all put
together now with the exception of the last
few bits, and they are obvious."

First thing is to see if Sturton knows this
handwriting," and here Mr. Usher tapped . his
breast-pocket in which he kept the precious
note and the photograph of the late John
Fossdyke, " according to my reckoning he
will."

Secondly, to see if that wearisome old
creature, Totterdell, recognizes this as the
photograph of the man who sat next him at
the opening of the Marlborough Theatre,
which, of course, he won't."

"Lastly, if I can, to get hold of a photograph
of Mr. Cudemore, and then show
Totterdell that, and if it don't give him fits
well I'm mistaken some. Now, how the deuce
am I to get about this last business. Yes, I
think my precocious young friend, with his
still more precocious views regarding the £200
reward, might really earn a £10 note over this

little bit of business. In the mean time," said
Mr. Usher, still chuckling with satisfaction at
his piecing of the puzzle, "a man of fashion
like me really ought to get a new rig out from
Sturton. None of your reach-meadows ready-money
tailors for a man of my position.
Dukes and detectives should be waited on
by first-rate artists, and, yes, by first-rate
'' tickets'' ; Sturton taking my order for a
frock-coat and all to match, and doing my
little ninety days' bill for a hundred. Lord,"
said Mr. Usher, bursting into a fit of laughter ;
'just to think of myself as a real Bond Street
lounger. It's a rum 'un, it is."

Sergeant Usher had put the obtaining Mr.
Cudemore's photograph last in his cogitations
because it was by far the least important of
the three last bricks in his arch of evidence.
Miss Lightcomb, Mr. Totterdell, the people at
the Hoping, and the label on the portmanteau,
all sufficed really to identify the moneylender
if he was the man, as the Sergeant had

now DO manner of doubt he was ; but, as was
before said, Mr. Usher was an artist, and liked
to hand his cases over to the Solicitors of the
Treasury without a flaw in them.

The first thing the Sergeant did was to send
for Timothy Whipple, that very junior, and
now dismissed, clerk.

Gentlemen of Mr. Cudemore's vocation
usually find one confidential clerk quite
enough for their actual requirements, although
a junior or two of the Whipple calibre are
useful. Timothy, although he had been
sternly disabused of that Golcon da-like dream
of grasping the £200 reward, still cherished
hopes that he might realize something handsome
by his information, and responded to Mr.
Usher's summons with alacrity. It would
have been utterly wanting in accordance
with the Sergeant's practice to ask any one
to call upon him at his own lodgings, so the
Wellington Restaurant was the trysting-place
he selected. There he found Timothy duly

awaiting his arrival over a pint of ale and
some bread and cheese.

"Now, my lad," said Mr. Usher, "you
really, considering your age, have some little
gumption. That portmanteau business is
creditable ; not much importance to us, but
creditable. Now it's just possible you might
earn an honest ten-pun note over this business.
It might run to that, although we can
easy do without you. But remember this
time you're working to orders, and when
people don't act strictly to my orders, they'd
best lead lives of virtue and circumspection.
Now, I shouldn't think, my young friend,
that'll be quite your future. If you don't turn
gamekeeper you'll become poacher ; if you
don't join us you'll drift into the ranks of
the criminal classes."

I'm sure, Mr. Usher, I'll do anything you
tell me," replied Timothy, meekly.

Well, look here, my lad. Mr. Cudemore's
given you the sack, but still for all that you

might be able to get what I want, and that is
Mr. Cudemore's photograph. Do you think
you can ? "

I can't be sure, sir. He's a book of 'em
in his sitting-room, and I'm pretty sure there's
one of himself in that ; but you know, Mr.
Usher, I can't make very sure of getting into
that room now"

There's no making sure of anything much
in this world," rejoined the Sergeant, sententiously,
" but you'll make sure of a tenner if
you'll manage that, and to a young gentleman
of your sort, who's out of employment, and
don't permit his imagination to run riot, that
should represent profitable business."

Tim simply thanked the omniscient one,
promised to do his best, and withdrew.

'' It ain't of much account," muttered the
Sergeant, " but I do like to send in a case
complete."

The next thing that Mr. Usher had to
achieve was obviously to interview the fashionable

Bond Street tailor, and there, accordingly,
the Sergeant proceeded next and sent in his
card.

Mr. Sturton was at home, and at once sent
out word that he should be happy to see the
eminent Scotland Yard official.

Well, Mr. Usher, what can I do for you ? "
inquired the Bond Street maestro urbanely.

The humour of the situation tickled the
Sergeant, and it was with a grim smile that he
retorted, " Well, you know a gentleman in my
profession wants a good many costumes at
times. Now, suppose I ask you to pitch me
out as a real swell about town."

The great sartorial artist was some two or
three minutes before he made reply, during
which he eyed his visitor gravely, at last he
refused. " No offence, I trust, Mr. Usher, but
it's best to be candid in these cases. I'd do
my very best for you, but you couldn't look it,
not if we did our utmost to oblige you. Now,
please, don't get angry, because I shall be only

too willing to do all I can to assist. Listen tome
! as the slightly eccentric member for
West Broadsides, member of the Carlton, and
with violent Conservative tendencies, I can turn
you out to the nines, or if you like it better
as the advanced Radical member for Flare -
upperton, rejected of the Reform, because he
goes a little too far for that played-out institution,
I also can do you justice. As a man of
fashion, Mr. Usher, you won't come off."

The Sergeant gave vent to a grim chuckle
at his little joke, and said, '^ Well, Mr. Sturton,
it's not quite true then that mien are what
their tailors make them."

Good heavens, Mr. Usher," cried the
enthusiastic Sturton, who really did believe in
his profession, " it isn't every clay suits the
sculptor, and goodness knows it isn't every
clay that suits the tailor. No disparagement,
my friend, but it's not in the power of
broad-cloth, tweed, serge, or angola to turnout
a lord."

And you wouldn't if you could," retorted
the Sergeant, perfectly aware of Mr. Sturton's
weakness, *' not you ; nobody knows better
the days that are coming, and that coronets
will be amongst the relics of history, eh ! "

*' Well," replied Mr. Sturton, who, despite
his professed Radical opinions, entertained a
servile adoration for the aristocracy, " they
are not quite to be overlooked as yet by my
profession."

Quite so. Now, Mr. Sturton, we'll come
to business," rejoined the Sergeant, curtly. I
suppose you're a judge of handwriting ? "

I don't understand you," replied Sturton,
in blank amazement.

Well, I mean this : in the course of your
business you must have had ' a wrong 'un '
given you occasionally."

Again did the eminent tailor stare blankly
at his questioner.

*' What I mean is this," said the Sergeant,
confidentially, " you've taken a cheque or two

in your time when the drawer's imagination
lead proved too much for him ; when, in fact,
he had forgotten his own name."

''Ah, yes," said Mr. Sturton, 'that, of
course, has happened, but you know, Isle.
Usher, as a rule they are rather lucrative
things than otherwise ; the family always
pay to avoid an exposure, and never object
to a pretty stiff percentage under the circumstances."


Just so," rejoined the Sergeant quietly,
but to return to my original observation,
you're a judge of handwriting. AYhat do
you think of this ? " and here Mr. Usher
produced the famous note that was so nearly
burnt at the Hoping.

It was folded, after the mysterious manner
in which the Sergeant invariably had shown
it, so that you could see little more than
the signature, but one glance at it sufficed
for Mr. Sturton.

"Yes," he said, "I knows that hand, but

I have no intention of telling you whose
it is"'

Mr. Usher broke into a low laui]jh ashe
replied, " I don't want you to tell me
whose handwriting it is, because I know,
but you will be wanted to give a court of
law your opinion before three weeks are
over your head, and I can only tell you
with what I am in a position to prove,
it would be madness on your part not to
speak out."

The collapse of Mr. Sturton was quite equal
to that of Timothy Whipple. He knew well
that there could be no fencing about his
relations with Mr. Cudemore in a witness
box. The more candid he was, the less
harm would it do him, but he saw to his
dismay that the detective meant to have
him in the witness box, and so replied
quietly, " Yes, it's Cudemore's. I know
nothing about the note, and you have given
me no chance of knowing ; but even if you

did I fancy it is a thing with which I had
nothing to do."

Not you, Mr. Sturton," replied the
Sergeant, as he picked up his hat. " I
know that well enough ; but you'll have to
testify to that handwriting. Good day, sir,
and it's real trouble to me to think you
could not make a genuine Bond Street ''toff"
of me."

Very uncomfortable was Mr. Sturton after
the detective left him. He was far too shrewd
a man not to thoroughly comprehend the
whole situation. He saw that he should be
called upon to identify Cudemore's writing
in court, and quite understood how very
unpleasant a sharp cross-examining barrister
might make it for him. That he lent money
to his clients was no particular mystery in a
select set, carefully as he endeavoured to make
it so, but he certainly did not want that fact
advertised in the journals. Mr. Sturton
d d the Bunbury mystery with no little

VOL. III. L

energy, fascinated as he was by it, as soon
as Sergeant Usher had departed. It had
never occurred to the great Bond Street
maestro before that he might be actively
and disagreeably inculpated in the elucidation
of the crime.

That little bit of business is settled,"
mused Mr. Usher, as he wended his way
leisurely back to the Wellington Restaurant
in Spring Gardens, where he had appointed
Timothy Whipple to meet him.

As he expected, Tim was waiting for him.

Well," said Mr. Usher, " have you got
wdiat I wanted ? "

'' Yes," said Tim, " I have, and a good deal
of trouble it's caused me. I had to watch
the governor out, and then wait for my
chance to steal up-stairs ; but I've got it, Mr.
Usher, and here it is."

Good, my lad," said the Sergeant, as he
took a capacious pocket-book from his breast.
*snow," continued Mr. Usher, as he dropped

the photograph into one of the pockets and
extracted a bank-note from another, " there's
ten pounds for you, and, remember, my young
friend, it's not many of us can ever knock
that out of their first murder case."

*' It ought to run to more, Mr. Usher,
indeed it ought. You know you've incited
me to steal that photograph. There's penalties,
you know, for prompting any one to
commit a felony."

The Sergeant's face really was a study at
this retort. He looked Tim Whipple over
for a moment, and then said solemnly —

**My young friend, your sole chance of
escaping the gallows is joining * the Yard.'
If you don't devote your talents to hanging
your fellow-creatures, they will some day
undoubtedly hang you. I told you to, if
possible, procure a photograph of Mr. Cude-
more. I never authorized your stealing it ;
and if I did what I ought, should take you
into custody now on that charge. I should

L 2

know then where to lay my hands on you.
I should save this ten pounds, and, in fact,
damme, I believe that's the best way out
of it."

But here Tim Whipple's audacity utterly
gave way. He burst forth into no end of
apologies for his presumption, declared he
was perfectly satisfied with his remuneration,
that his address was always at Mr. Usher's
disposal, and that if the Sergeant would at
some future time recommend him as a candidate
for the police force or the criminal
investigation department — his ambition would
be satisfied. He quite grovelled before the
great detective, and even offered to restore
the ten-pound note.

'well, my lad," said Mr. Usher, at last,
'' I think you've the making of an officer of
ray department in course of time. The sooner
you get over bumptiousness and thinking
things out for yourself at present the better.
We don't stand that sort of nonsense amongst

our subordinates. We do the thinking, and
merely expect them to do what they're told,
and any one who can do that satisfactorily
in our line is certain to come to the top of
the ladder if he's any gumption in him at all."

^'Oh, Mr. Usher, if I thought that,"
exclaimed Jim.

** Beware of bumptiousness," rejoined the
Sergeant, solemnly, " and it's possible you
may escape the gallows yet. Now, my lad,
hook it — I've done with you."

CHAPTER X.

LAST LINKS.

Once more did Mr. Usher take train for
Marlborough — the riddle was solved, the
whole story of the Banbury mystery was
clear as noon-day to him, with one exception.
What had been Cudemore's motive ? Why
had he killed John Fossdyke ? and about
that, rack his brains as he might, the Sergeant
was compelled to confess himself beaten.
He had no doubt whatever about Cudemore's
guilt ; he had no doubt whatever about proving
it in a court of justice ; still, just as a
great artist insists upon either having back,
or detaining, a picture for a few final touches,
so did Mr. Usher want to complete two or
three trifling links before arresting Cudemore.

The first person the Sergeant desired to see
in Baumborougli was Mr. Totterdell, and no
sooner had he deposited his modest luggage in
the hotel he affected than he started off to that
gentleman's residence. Mr. Totterdell had
gradually taught himself to believe the Bun-bury
mystery could only be elucidated by
himself; that the police "were born fools,
sir," he expressed to every one unguarded
enough to listen to him : and if that idiot of a
coroner, and still bigger imbecile, Mr. Trail, had
only listened to his evidence that the murderer
would have been arrested, was a fixed fact in
the Totterdell brain, and fixed facts in the Totterdell
brain were apt to become just a little
hard upon other people, especially those of an
irresolute turn of mind, who had not nerve to
risk the loss of a lapel sooner than submit to
button-lino:.

Still Mr. Totterdell was conscious of having
been somewhat snubbed by Mr. Usher at their
last interview, and with all his contemptuous

opinion of the police in the abstract, had a
dim idea that the Sergeant in particular was a
little awkward to put down ; while, on the
other hand, his curiosity was insatiable, and
therefore when Mr. Usher's card was put into
his hand he gave prompt directions for his
admittance. The Sergeant, after his wont,
trod close on the heels of his name, and
the fussy Town Councillor received him with
no little effusion.

** Ha, Mr. Usher," he exclaimed, rubbing his
hands, " so you're come back to me again, eh !
No getting at the bottom of this complication
without my assistance, eh ! Well, sir, what is
it now ? if I'd been listened to earlier the
whole affair would have been cleared up long
before this."

** I'm beginning to be of that way of thinking
myself, sir," replied the detective. "I'll
take a chair with your permission, and then,
perhaps, you'd answer me a question or two."

*' Sit down, sit down, by all means," replied

Mr. Totterdell with pompous patronage. " I'll
help you all I can, my good fellow ; anything,
you know, to forward the ends of
justice."

Quite so," replied the Sergeant. " I know
I can rely upon you. Now, Mr. Totterdell,
you couldn't possibly be mistaken about the
identity of the man who sat next you at
the opening of the Marlborough Theatre, I
presume ? "

What, James Foxborough 1 Certainly not ;
rd swear to him anywhere."

'* Just so ; you never saw him before, and,
like everybody else, apparently have never seen
him since."

"No, I never saw him except on that
occasion," rejoined he ; 'but I tell you what,
Mr. Usher—"

"Half a minute, sir," rejoined the detective,
as he took the stout pocket-book from his
breast ; " half a minute, if you please," and
producing a photographic carte, he handed it

to Mr. Totterdell, and said abruptly, " Is that
him ? "

The old gentleman glared at it for a minute,
and then exclaimed, " Good God, no ! Why,
that's poor Fossdyke, any one could recognize
him!"

Dear me, dear me," said Mr. Usher, " how
stupid I am, I've given you the wrong carte !
Excuse me, sir, but this is the one I want yon
to look at," and as he spoke the Sergeant
exchanged the photograph for that of Mr.
Cudemore.

"That's him, that's him, Mr. Usher," cried
Mr. Totterdell ; " that's the scoundrel who sat
next me in the stalls ; that's James Fox-borough.
It's an awful thing, Sergeant, so to
speak, to think you've hobbed and robbed
with a murderer."

Well, I don't know about the hobbinor and
robbing," rejoined the detective, "but, you
see, I've had intimate relations with so many
in my time that it don't strike me that way.

They're, as a rule, inoffensive creatures, and
one rather wonders how they came to do it'

*' Well, Mr. Usher, this was a nice, civil-spoken
gentleman — the last person in the
world you'd have suspected of any, any sad,
any

Sad games," rejoined the Sergeant, curtly.
Bless, you, sir, they usually are. The worst
of 'em generally goes to church pretty regular,
and you wouldn't think would wring the neck
of a sparrow, much less, as one I made professional
acquaintance with, polish off a whole
family."

Dear me," rejoined Mr. Totterdell, with
both eyes and mouth wide open, " you don't
say so I Now, Mr. Luther, I really should like
to hear the particulars of that case."

Well, sir, one of these days, if you'll give
me a dish of tea, I'll be proud to tell you the
story, but just now I really am pressed for
time. We can't afford to let this fellow slip
through our fingers, eh, Mr. Totterdell ? " said

the Sergeant, as he gently withdrew the photograph
from the old gentleman's fingers.

*' Certainly not ; and you know where to lay
your hand on him, Sergeant ? "

Undoubtedly, and you shall be face to face
with him before many days are over. Yes,
sir, I'm going to hang your friend of the
theatre, and you may take Silas Usher's word
for it. I don't make many mistakes, and this
is about as lovely a case as ever I worked
out."

All right, Sergeant, if you'll just ring the
bell they'll bring you some tea, and then if
you'll just tell me the story as far as you've
got it worked out, why I'll give you my advice
about it," rejoined Mr. Totterdell, his face all
aglow, and his inquisitive old eyes positively
glistening with excitement.

'that's just it," replied Mr. Usher, rising.
'you're the very man I want to talk the
whole thing over with ; but time, Mr. Totter-dell,
don't admit of my doing it just now.

There are telegrams to send off, sir, orders to
despatch, other people to see, so I'll bid you
good day, sir, for the present. Once more
thanking you for your valuable assistance,"
continued the Sergeant, as he brushed his
hat with his coat-sleeve, "allow me to wish
you good day."

"They can't get a step without me in the
business," murmured Mr. Totterdell, with a
complacent smile as Mr. Usher's footsteps
died away in the distance. " When it comes
to a question of law, — ha, ha, — I fancy they've
nobody quite so good on the Bench. Usher
sees it at once. Good man. Usher. This
case will probably make him, and who's
worked out this business for him ? — why,
me'' And then Mr. Totterdell threw himself
back in his chair, and indulged in ecstatic
slumber.

"Darned old fool," muttered the candid
detective as he walked leisurely away from
Mr. Totterdell's residence. " Still I've got the

one fact out of him I wanted. Cudemore
was the man at the Marlborough Theatre.
Well, I fancy . Cudemore is one of those this
world must suffer by the loss of The next
thing is just to show old Marlinson and one
or two of the Hoping people the photograph,
and then the case is just as complete as ever I
turned one out. But the motive. Why did
Cudemore kill Fossdyke ? why did he think
of it ? I'm dead beat about that ; if he meant
going in for money and bleeding him. it was
the last thing he'd have done. Wringing the
neck of the goose that lays the golden eggs is
not done in practical life, whatever may take
place in fable ; especially philosophers like
Cudemore, who make their living out of the
weaknesses of their fellow-creatures, don't fall
into such mistakes. Cudemore has owned
too many geese of this kind in his time to do
anything so foolish as that. Well, we shall
perhaps have it out of him at the trial ; and,
moreover, a man goes to the gallows for conclusively

proved murder, even if the why of
it is never made clear. Some of the most remarkable
on record have never been cyphered
out in that respect."

The next day saw Mr. Usher louno^inof
leisurely into the Hoping at Bunbury, to the
extreme horror of old Joe Marlinson, who, by
his surly greeting, quite gave the Sergeant
to understand that he had no desire for his
patronage.

I'm glad to see, my old friend," said Mr.
Usher easily, '' that you've not forgotten me.
As for me, you know, I never forget anybody."

If you could make an exception in my
case," rejoined the landlord of the Hoping,
•' I'd take it as a favour ; I don't Vv^ant anymore
murders or inquests committed in this
house."

"No, my man, and you don't want to
appear in a witness-box, no doubt," observed
the Sergeant, jocularly.

"It's a scandalous thing at my time of life,

if I'm dragged into court to be worried about
an affair I know nothing about. Do you
suppose I keep a throat-cutting hotel ? Do
you suppose murder and robbery is licensed
on these premises ? I ain't going to have it,
nor inquests either — no, nor detectives loafing
about my place."

Now, look here, Mr. Marlinson," rejoined
the Sergeant ; " it's not a bit of use your getting
thirty over the matter. The murder was
committed in your house, and if you didn't
actually do it, I'm not quite so clear you
didn't have a hand in it. Just you pay attention
to what I've got to say to you, or you'll
find yourself in the dock instead of the
witness-box."

Mr. Marlinson's face was simply a comic
study for the moment, then he went deliberately
to a cupboard, from which he produced
a couple of glasses, and taking a greenish
bottle from the liqueur rack of the bar-parlour,
solemnly filled them.

Mr. Usher was quite equal to the occasion ;
although an abstemious man, he tossed off the
Chartreuse or Kiimmell proposed to him, and
then said, " Now, Mr. Marlinson, you'd know
this Foxborough again if you saw him ; could
swear to him anywhere I suppose ? "

I should think I could, and I should
rather think I would," replied Mr. Marlinson,
excitedly, to which no doubt considerable

absorption of liquors contributed. " D n

him, what's he mean by coming to a respectable
hotel to commit his murders, when there's
any amount of hedge ale-houses about the
country that seem special for him. I don't
want no more inquests here, Mr. Usher. I
don't want to have anything more to do with
the business ; but I don't mind swearing to a
scoundrel who's brought disgrace upon the
Hoping. Hanging he deserves, and hanging
I trust he'll get, dash me."

Quite so," replied the Sergeant, quietly ;
"now look here," and somewhat to Mr.

VOL. III. M

Marlinson's dismay the detective produced that
fat leather pocket-book, which might almost
have been called " his familiar." It was the
black poodle of Faust.

*' You see this photograph," continued Mr.
Usher, as he produced from its depths Mr.
Cudemore's carte. " Who is it ? "

"That's him — that's the villain who

has caused all this trouble. I could swear to
him anywhere."

We shan't trouble you to do that ; if
you'll swear to him in a court of justice it's
about as much as we shall ask you to do. But
now I just want Eliza Salter and Thomas
Jenkinson, the waiter — a mere matter of form,
Mr. Marlinson, but when people outrage
respectable hotels, houses with a county and
crusted port reputation, they must be punished,
Mr. Marlinson, eh 1 "

They must be thinned, sir, that's what it
is. Have another glass, Mr. Usher, it's mild
as mother's milk this Chartreuse, and comforting

under affliction," and as he spoke Joe
Marlinson poured out a couple more glasses
of the insinuating compound. '' We can't
have such vipers about, sir, they must be
scotched. I don't quite know what that
means, but I believe it's a term applicable to
vipers."

Well, just send for the waiter and
chamber-maid, my friend, you may rely upon
it that this particular viper won't come across
your path any more."

I hope not, Mr. Usher ; it's upset me
altogether. For all I know, I've been harbouring
and entertaining murderers for years.
Here's a gentleman comes here with all a
gentleman's manners, and shows a taste in
wines and cookery that stamps him as a
member of the upper circles, and then he
just in the middle of the night sticks a
fellow-creature as if he where a pork-butcher.
I give it all up, sir. I never believed the
aristocracy were up to such rigs as this, and

M 2

now they tell me there was a French duke
took to it only a score or so of years back."

Don't you trouble, Mr. Marlinson, and
take my advice and be a little careful of
your fine Chartreuse. Good tipple but
demoralizing. Now run in Salter and Jenkinson,
for Fve no time to spare, and must
catch the next train for Marlborough."

Thus advised, the landlord of the Hoping
speedily summoned those servitors, and Mr.
Usher exhibited the carte of Cudemore for
their delectation. Neither had the slightest
doubt about it. Yes, that was number eleven ;
Mr. Foxborough, as they knew him to be
afterwards. The photograph was an excellent
one, and they could swear to him anywhere.
Was there any chance or immediate prospect
of apprehension."

*you needn't fret yourselves about that.
I, Sergeant Usher, tell you that I know
exactly where to find James Foxborough when
I want him, and that there's never a man

in England less likely to change his abode.
That you will be all able to recognize Fox-borough
when you see him in the dock is
all I want. And now just tell Bill Gibbons
I'll run down in the 'bus."

That stolid, open-mouthed admiration characteristic
of country folks was visible upon
the faces of the whole Hoping establishment,
from the landlord to the boots, as the great
detective took his departure.

Arrived at Marlborough, Mr. Usher made
his way straight to Dr. Inglebyby's, and was
at once admitted. He found the Doctor alone.

Sit down, Usher, and have a glass of
port," remarked the medico. "Am I to
have the story of the Bunbury mystery
to-nio-ht ? "

Well, sir," said the Sergeant, as he filled
his glass, "to tell you the truth, that's just
what I came to do ; but I should like both
Mr. Soames and Mr. Morantt to be present
when I relate it."

Ha I a little unlucky. I'm not going
to make any mystery to a man so completely
behind the scenes as yourself, but Herbert
Morantt took Miss Hyde up to London to-day
to introduce her to her half-sister. The girl
was mad about it ; and young Morantt, well,
I suppose, he was pretty keen too to get a
look at his sweetheart."

"Yes, sir, yes," said the Sergeant, with
a low chuckle, " that's human nature, about
one of the few cards you can depend upon
being played straight in the world. But
I'll tell you what it is, I'll put ois telling
the story of Mr. Fossdyke's death till they
come back if you'll allow me. The story
is all plain as noonday, but I want to tell
it before Mr. Soames, Mr. Morantt, and Miss
Hyde. I'm beat about the motive, and I've
a strong idea that either Mr. Morantt or
Miss Hyde might give me the clue to it. As
for who killed John Fossdyke, he'll be in
custody tomorrow, and to prove the case

is as simple as possible ; but why he did
it rm beat about still. Good niorht, doctor :
nobody keeps such port as you, but fine
Chartreuse at the Hoping in the afternoon
is not the best foundation for it," and with
this profoundly philosophical remark the
Sergeant vanished.

CHAPTER XL

MRS. Flamborough's CONFESSION".

That Miss Hyde should be anxious to
make the acquaintance of the mother she
hardly knew, and of the half-sister she had
never seen, was only natural ; but her feelings
had been so aroused by the enthusiastic
manner in which Morantt spoke of them that
her desire to do so had become feverish.
Herbert spoke of Mrs. Foxborough as one
of the noblest, greatest-hearted women it
had ever been his lot to know ; and it is
not every day that sons-in-law elect show
such passionate admiration for the mothers
of their sweethearts. That he should rave
about Nid was only natural ; if a man of

Herbert's age don't express himself in somewhat
extravagant fashion regarding the girl
he is about to marry, he must be either
of a very phlegmatic temperament, or very
mildly in love, and of those failings nobody
could possibly accuse JMr. Morantt.

Phil Soames too could not resist feeling
some curiosity to see people to whom he
was likely to be allied so nearly as ]airs.
Foxborough and her daughter, and it took
very little persuasion on Bessie's part to
induce him to agree to run up with her
and Herbert to London, and be presented
at Tapton Cottage.

You must come, Phil, dear. You know
what Herbert is. When he once gets beside
Nid, I shall never see him again, and be left
to take care of myself; and though Herbert
in his reckless way declares that mamma
will be delighted to see me, I don't feel
quite sure about how she will brook my
intrusion on her home. She has always

been charming and tender upon the rare
occasions on which she has come to seeme,
but she has never hinted that I should
come and see her " — a speech that shows
Mr. Morantt and Miss Hyde had speedily
arrived at terms of easy confidence.

What reasons there might have been,
Bessie, for Mrs. Foxborough handing you
over to the care of your aunt I can't guess ;
but I think no mother is likely not to be
proud to own you as a daughter now."

Oh, Phil, Phil," cried Bessie, laughing,
to think of your giving utterance to such
shameful flattery ! "

I don't know that there's much flattery
about it, darling," replied the young man
as he wound his arm round her waist.
If after a hard struggle one gains the
prize one's set one's heart on, I think one's
justified in being just a wee bit proud of
the prize."

*' How you do spoil me, and how was I

ever so mad as not to tell you my story
at once '? " replied Bessie, as she dropped
her head on his breast with the inevitable
result. " But you'll come to town with Herbert
and me tomorrow, that's understood ? "

You don't suppose I'd give a chance, child,
for any other fellow to run away with my
property ? " and then came some further assertion
of his beings the rightful owner of " the
property," scarcely interesting to readers or
lookers-on.

And so the very morning that Usher, the
ubiquitous, was upsetting Mr. Marlinson's
equilibrium at the Hoping, Phil Soames,
Morantt, and Miss Hyde took the train for
London. They where not, however, destined
to depart altogether unchallenged. Mr.
Totterdell, in his thirst for information
concerning the doings of everybody and
everything, was on the platform buying
newspapers. He was a great frequenter of
the station. He liked to knows who came

to, and who departed from, Marlborough ;
and the why and the where of their journey
was a special object of interest to the old
gentleman. The sight of Phil Sources and
his friend Herbert Morantt, with Miss Hyde,
all evidently awaiting the London train, was
like the trumpet to the war-horse.

Goings to London, Mr. Soames ? " exclaimed
Mr. Totterdell, as he sidled up to
them. " Can hardly be pleasure, I suppose,
while this terrible mystery, in which wee are
all so interested, remains unsettled."

"Yes, Tm going to London," rejoined Philip
drily.

Got a bit of shopping to do, eh. Miss
Hyde ? "

"A lady always has that, Mr. Totterdell;
but I'm not going to London for that purpose."

*' On business of importance, eh ? "

"Just so," rejoined Herbert Morantt, cutting
into the conversation. " We are all going
up to see the pantomimes."

'* Pantomimes, my dear young friend," said
Mr. Totterdell ; " why, bless you, they don't
commence for another six weeks."

** No," rejoined Morantt serenely, '' but there's
nothing like being in time to get a good
seat. Never, Mr. Totterdell, neglect that
golden advice on the playbills, ' Come
early.' "

Here Phil Soames and Bessie could control
their laughter no longer ; but just then the
London train fortunately glided into the
station, and the two jumped hastily into
a first-class carriage, leaving Mr. Totterdell
jabbering impotently in his wrath.

Arrived in town, they drove straight to
Tapton Cottage, and, as pre-arranged, Morantt
jumped out and knocked, leaving his companions
in the cab. Bessie was fearfully
nervous. She feared how the scarcely-known
mother might take this unauthorized intrusion
; and, poor girl, she so yearned for
some near relations she could love. The

bitter experience of her puritanical aunt and
waspish cousins had left sad memories in her
mind ; and though Phil Soames had in great
measure succeeded in obliterating them, still
Bessie craved for the love of that handsome
mother she had so seldom seen.

Do you think she's very angry at my
coming, Phil ? " she whispered, as she stole
her hand into her lover's.

Nonsense, child ! " he replied, as he
pressed it. " Don't be foolish. Morantt must
be given a few minutes to explain matters."

Suddenly the door opened, and a tall,
handsome woman, with a wealth of chestnut
hair crowning her head, rushed down the
steps, and exclaimed as she impetuously
wrenched open the cab-door —

*' Bessie, my darling, where are you ? Come
in at once, dearest, and you too, Mr. Soames,
for of course you are Air. Soames. To think,
child, that your mother would not be glad to
see you in your own home. Oh, my darling,

I've a long story to whisper into your ears
when I get you inside."

When they entered the drawing-room, Nid
was standing, her face all aglow with excitement,
waiting to welcome her new sister.
For a second or two she regarded her shyly ;
then the girl's impulsive nature asserted
itself, and without more ado, she made a
rush at Bessie, threw her arms round her
neck, and kissed her passionately.

"There, that will do, Nid," said Mrs.
Foxborough, in a low voice, as she gently
separated the two girls. " Take her into
the library, Herbert, and let her there make
acquaintance with her brother-in-law that is
to be. You will forgive me, Mr. Soames,
but I have a full confession to make to my
daughter, and I am sure," she continued,
addressing herself to him as her voice sank
almost to a whisper, "you do not wish to
make the story of a woman's weakness harder
for her to tell than necessary." J

*'I assure you, Mrs. Foxborough," interposed
Phil

"No," she continued, still speaking to him,
and recognizing instinctively that he was
the master spirit of the party, " I know you
don't, and lowering her head as few people
had ever chanced to see the proud Nydia
Willoughby do before ; " but Bessie must learn
the truth from my lips at last. You and she,
I dare say, know the outline of it already.
Spare me its being further bruited abroad."

She presented so sad a sight in this her
hour of humiliation, and the low tremulous
tones vibrated so painfully on the heartstrings
of her hearers, that the two girls burst into
tears, while Mrs. Foxborough stood silent
and abased. Phil Soames, however, rose
promptly to the occasion.

Kiss and comfort her, Bessie ; go to her,
child," and he placed the weeping girl in her
mother's arms, and raising Mrs. Foxborough's
hand to his lips, kissed it. " Take Nydia to

the library, I will follow you and try to make
my sister-in-law's acquaintance."

For a second Nid hesitated to give way to
Morantt's light grasp upon her arm, then she
mutely clasped Phil's hand, and yielding to
her lover's gentle compulsion, drew him after
her as they left the room.

"Oh, Bessie, darling," exclaimed Mrs. Fox-borough,
as she wound her arm about her
daughter. "It is a terrible story for a
mother to have to tell, how she ever came to
desert a child like yourself, but there are
really extenuating circumstances — that is, if
anything can excuse a woman so doing.
Listen, child, to a very common-place story.
Your grandfather was a Presbyterian minister
at Plymouth, and we — that is, myself and
your aunt — were brought up after the fashion
of girls in a very serious family. There
were only us two, and Augusta cheerfully
conformed with the views of our parents. It
may have been the romantic name which my

VOL. III. N

mother, with ' The Last Days of Pompeii ' still
seething in her mind, insisted upon bestowing
on me ; but from the very first I rebelled
against the solemnity of our home. While
your grandmother lived it was somewhat
mitigated, but after her death your grandfather
and my sister, who was some five years
my senior, seemed to think even laughter
a crime. Novel reading, theatre-going, and
all the innocent amusements that a girl most
delights in where in my case sternly repressed.
Can you wonder that I fell into a state of
chronic and sullen revolt against the gloomy
existence I was condemned to lead ? As long
as my sister remained at home, despite my
having no scruples about indulging in any
of the forbidden pleasures whenever I could
get a chance, my opportunities where few. A
woman is not easily blinded by another
woman, and Augusta was not easy to deceive ;
but when she one day married the son of a
prominent member of our congregation and

went away to her new home in London, it
became comparatively easy. The bribing the
two maids that comprised our modest household
were hardly necessary, their sympathies
were entirely with me ; they agreed that Miss
Nydia ought to see a little more life and have
a little more amusement. Novels I obtained
now as many as I liked, and I may say lived
in the fairy-land of fiction, while now and
again I enjoyed the stolen delight of a visit
to the theatre in company with Ruth, our
parlour-maid."

Poor mother," murmured Bessie. " No
one, as you know, could understand your
dreary life better than T."

• Mrs. Foxborough, who was seated in a low
chair, fondled the head of the girl who was
crouched at her feet.

^^ Then, Bessie sweet, came my agony.
I met there upon one occasion a very good-looking
young man, who was excessively
civil about getting us a cab. It was a wet

N 2

night, and cabs were somewhat scarce. I
soon found that he was the jeune premier of
the company, but not being wanted in the
last piece had strolled round in front. I was
only seventeen, Bessie, and we met and met
again. To a romantic fool as I was then an
actor was a species of demi-god. I fell
violently in what I thought was love, and
when the company left Plymouth was easily
persuaded to elope with him. A little more
than a year afterwards I found myself a
mother, and deserted, with the additional
agony of discovering that my betrayer was
already a married man. What was I to do ?
Thanks to my soi-disant husband, I had
already got a footing on the stage, but how to
carry you about with me and take care of you
I knew not. My salary, I need scarcely say,
was scanty, while in the matter of new parts
country managers are simply merciless, and
one has to play almost any rule at forty-eight
hours' notice. What with study and rehearsal

I could simply take no adequate care of you.
Go back to my father's house I couldn't — I
really had not the courage to undergo the
humiliation that awaited me there even if
he would receive me, which was not exactly
certain. At last I bethought me of your
aunt. I took you there, and bore meekly
the reproaches that were showered upon
me, and then, Bessie, I assented to the
cruel terms proposed to me — That I was to
give you solely over to her ; that it washer
duty, if possible, to snatch a brand from
the burning, and her duty she would do ;
but that she must make it a positive condition
that I saw you but rarely, and never
attempted to remove you from under her
care even for a day. What cruel justice
Augusta dealt out to me at that time I
forgive her for your sake, but I can never
forget it. She did her duty by you honestly
according to her own narrow lights, and I,
God help me, did not."

Here Mrs. Foxborough ceased, and in a
second Bessie's arms were wound round her
neck, and the girl was seated in her lap.

^' Oh, mother," she whispered, " what a
hard life you must have had."

No, I don't know that it was harder than
is the lot of most of us, except the having
to part with you. Soon afterwards I got a
lucrative opening in the music-hall line, and
there I have continued ever since. It was
at that time I met poor James, and we were
married, but I told him about you before I
became his wife. He didn't get on well on
the stage, and was too proud to live upon me,
so we agreed to separate for a little. Fond
as he was of me, and though he would have
lavished money on me if I would have let
him after he began to make it, he was
always strangely reticent about his business.
He did. well whatever it was, and bought and
rebuilt the Syringa entirely for me. He
called his business, Bessie, the managing of

country theatrical companies. I always affected
to believe it, but I very much doubt
whether that was what it was really. But
he's been a good and dear husband to me,
child, and had nothing to say to this murder
I'd stake my life, though I've a presentiment
I shall never see him again. And now about
yourself, child — do you love this bonnie wooer
of yours ? "

** With all my soul, mother. You can't
think how kind, courteous, and considerate
he is, and he must care a good deal about
me, or he'd never take such a penniless child
as me to keep."

Oh, darling ! " replied Mrs. Foxborough,
as she toyed a little nervously though fondly
with the girl's hair, " there are plenty of men
about who would gladly take you with just
the gown on your back. May you be happy,
child ; and now we'll go and call back the
others. I have hardly seen this tall sweetheart
of yours."

CHAPTER XII.

MR. CUDEMORE GETS UNEASY.

Mr. Cudemore was getting somewhat
uneasy in his mind. He did not at all like
Mr. Sturton having put himself in communication
with the police relative to the large
sum of money that James Foxborough had
borrowed. He would have liked it stdl less,
had he known of Mr. Usher's visit to Bond
Street, but of that he was in ignorance. He
had called once or twice to see Mr. Sturton
lately, only to be told he was not in. This
in itself disturbed the suspicious moneylender.
He had never found any difficulty
about seeing the fashionable artist before,
why should he now ? The truth was, Mr.
Sturton kept purposely out of the way.

Although Mr. Usher, after his wont, had
kept his own counsel pretty close, yet he
had made no secret that Mr. Sturton would
be called upon to testify to that handwriting,
and further, it was clear to the latter that
the Sergeant attached great importance to
that note. Mr. Sturton had always followed
the Bunbury murder with morbid interest,
and he had arrived vaguely at the conclusion
that Cudemore was somehow implicated in
the crime. He could be cool enough on all
matters of business, but he had no nerves
for horrors, and the Bunbury mystery, which
had absorbed him from the first, now kept
him in a state of nervous irritability.

Mr. Cudemore was very dissatisfied with
the progress of his love-suit. His chance
had not looked a particularly rosy one before
he lost his head that afternoon in Tapton
Cottage, and now he knew that nothing: but
coercion remained to bring it to a successful
termination. Not that Mr. Cudemore would

have cared about that, had it only promised a
favourable result, but it did not. He interfered
more and more in the affairs of the Syringa ;
he insisted upon it that he must see the 
on matters of business. Mrs. Fox-borough
steadily refused to take the slightest
notice of him. In spite of her prohibition
he had again called at the cottage ; the door
remained closed in his face. He had written
to apologize for his conduct, but no reply
was vouchsafed him. He had Written once
more, pointing out that if the six thousand
pounds borrowed by James Foxborough was
not forthcoming at the expiration of the
notice given the morto^ao^ees would foreclose,
and the Syringa Music-Hail go altogether
out of Mrs. Foxborough's hands, and Mrs.
Foxborough again was perfectly indifferent,
and abstained from answering his letter.
Then the money-lender had pushed persecution
as far as he knew how, and was fain to
admit with no result.

He ^Yas infatuated with his mad passion
for the girl, and it to a certain extent lulled
to rest that shrewd instinct of coming danger
now newly awakened. In the days before
he had avowed his admiration he had begged
a photograph from Nid, and she, who was
turning over a lot of freshly-executed sun
likenesses of herself, gave him one without
hesitation. Musing one afternoon in his
rooms over his mad desire to make Nid his
wife, he suddenly bethought him, as he could
not see the girl herself, he would look at
her picture. He fetched his photograph
book from a side table and turned over the
leaves till he came to her likeness, and then
he was struck with something else — the
opposite carte had been removed. He knew
perfectly well whose it was. It was his own.
He had placed it there as men will at times
in order to see themselves coupled with the
object of their idolatry. Who had taken
it ? and why ? The division from which it

had been abstracted was slightly torn, as if
it had been removed with some haste, and
once more a feelings of uneasiness came over
the man. He had no intimate friends likely
to commit such petty larceny, in fact, friends
were a luxury Mr. Cudemore professed himself
unable to afford. He was a great
admirer of the fair sex, but his liaisons were
transient and of that meretricious order that
involves no great amount of sentiment on
either side.

He lit a big cigar and sat there for an hour
brooding over various little suspicious circumstances,
all tending to confirm his views that
Scotland Yard had come to suspect him of
being concerned in the Bunbury mystery.
AVhat was young Whipple doing in his
dressing-room ? why did Mr. Sturton persistently
avoid him ? and lastly, with what
object had some one abstracted this photograph
? He wondered if he was under
surveillance ; whether he was watched as he

knew the police could watch a man upon
occasion. Then he thought it would be as
well to realize some securities, so as to have
a good bit of ready money always at hand,
in case it might seem good policy to abscond.
Bah ! he was losing his nerve. Let them
suspect, he was in no danger ; it was little
likely they would ever penetrate the mysterious
disappearance of James Foxborough,
and until they did that he was safe. No,
while there was a chance of securing Nid
Foxborough for his wife he would stay,
happen what might, and then he actually
began to muse over impossible schemes for
her abduction. His fierce lustful passion for
the girl — love it cannot be called — was of
that kind that led to savage outrages of such
sort in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries,
but is fortunately not quite so feasible
in the days we live in. Did he but know it,
Mr. Cudemore was as well policed as the Prime
Minister or the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland.

Still the more he reflected the less he
liked the aspect of affairs. He looked at the
clock ; yes, with a good hansom there was
just time to catch his broker and give him
instructions to sell Guatemala bonds sufficient
to realize a thousand. He would do it. ''I
shall want money for either tour' he muttered
grimly, " whether it be a wedding one
or the other."

On the track of his hansom stole another
tenanted by a wizened little old man dressed
something like an old-fashioned bank clerk,
but one of the deadliest beagles in all the
detective pack. He was not a man of anything
or like Mr. Usher's calibre, he was not
good at finding his game ; but once shown
his quarry, and he hung upon the track like
a sleuth hound. Old Nibs, as he was affectionately
termed by his brethren of the
Yard, was a very valuable officer in his own
line ; a very difficult man to slip when he
had once sighted his prey.

Mr. Cudemore arrived in time, and a little
surprised his broker. Guatemala were now
going up and promised to be an uncommon
D-ood thing; ere the month was out. Did not
Mr. Cudemore think it would be advisable
to hold on a week or two, or, if he must have
money, realize some other property ? No, Mr.
Cudemore didn't think so. His orders were
peremptory to sell Guatemala to realize a
thousand the next day, and that done he
drove off and recreated himself at the Gaiety
restaurant, and went into the theatre afterwards
; but let him go where he would, that
little wizened old bank clerk followed him
like his shadow till he finally reached his
home in Spring Gardens, and there another
member of the force was ready to take up
the watch.

Mr. Cudemore slept the sleep of the just.
Whatever his connection with the Bunbury
mystery might be, it affected him no more
than it might make it advisable for him

to leave town, and this, in consequence of
his wild infatuation about Nid Foxborough,
he did not wish to do. The money-lender
thought that he could easily baffle the police
whenever he should deem it necessary, and
though he had pictured himself watched, had
little idea that such watch had actually commenced.
He thought he mio^ht to some
extent have fallen under their suspicion, but
he deemed they had barely got hold of the
clue as yet, much less unravelled it. Uneasy
he was, he felt there was danger in the air,
but he'd no idea he was already completely in
the toils, that the indefatigable Usher had
his, Mr. Cudemore's, photograph multiplied,
and that there was not a leading police-station
in England without both that and a complete
description of him, more especially all
the principal seaports, so that even should he
evade the vigilance of the Yard he was not

o

likely to get very far.

The next morning Mr. Cudemore, having

had this breakfast, betook himself to the
Syringa Music-Hail, where he, as was his
habit, harassed the stage-manager with business
inquiries and demanded to see Mrs*
Foxborough.

'' She's here, I know," said the moneylender,
^' for I saw her brougham waiting in
the street."

IVe Mrs. Foxborough's express commands
to say she will never see you, that she doubts
whether you really have any right to interfere
with us at all until your time comes. I
don't quite know what she means by that,
but I give you her message as I have given it
you before."

But Mr. Cudemore was determined to see
Mrs. Foxborough this time, and he lingered
in the entrance until she came out, and then,
taking off his hat, boldly requested to speak
to her on business.

The manageress of the Syringa drew herself
up proudly and passed on towards her

VOL. III.

carriage without a word or hardly even a
glance at him, and Mr. Cudemore fell back
discomfited as the stage-manager put her
into the brougham. He was verily not doing
much with this game of persecution, and Mr.
Cudemore walked moodily away. " She must
have a good bit more than I thought," he
muttered, " or she'd never take the prospect
of the loss of the Syringa so lightly ; and
yet I thought Foxborough had pretty well all
he had sunk in it ; but of course I know now
he had other resources."

Now it so happened that the very morning
upon which Mr. Cudemore made the last
attempt to intimidate Mrs. Foxborough was
the day upon which the party from Baum-borough,
under Morantt's guidance, arrived at
Tapton Cottage. If Mrs. Foxborough kept a
brave presence before the money-lender, she
was in reality considerably dismayed at the
loss of the Syringa. Her husband might have
other property, but she knew nothing about

it, and it was the Syringa that kept Captor
Cottage going. Of course she could fall back
upon her profession and command a very
fair engagement, but it would mean a very
different income from that which she derived
from the music-hall. She wondered whether
Cudemore had the rights he claimed over the
place at present ; but the mortgage she knew
was a fact, and where to get six thousand
pounds she didn't know. She had come down
to the Syringa early as she always did, in
order to avoid observation, and hurried back
to the cottage in consequence of a letter from
Morantt received that morning.

When she and Bessie had fetched the other
three back from the library, as it was the
custom to call James Foxborough's own den,
Mrs. Foxborough sat down to make acquaintance
with Phil Soames, while Morantt was
left to entertain the two girls. Mrs. Fox-borough
was a quick-witted woman, and she
had heard of Phil's business qualifications

O 2

from Herbert. She was much struck with
his quiet, shrewd remarks, for she had turned
the conversation on his (Soames') own business
and position, and what he thought of
Herbert's chance of prospering in the opening
his firm had so kindly afforded him, and her
heart felt light about the prospects of her
daughters as she listened to Phil's clear
exposition of the future. Suddenly it flashed
across her that she sorely needed some one
to advise her. Why should she not confide
her trouble about the Syringa to this clear-headed
son-in-law that was to be ?

She paused for a moment and then said,
Mr. Soames, I want your advice," and without
further preliminary, she poured into Phil's
ears the stories of her difficulties with Mr.
Cudemore.

"Don't be alarmed, Mrs. Foxborough,"
replied Soames, quietly, as she concluded.
I've no doubt, in the first place, when this
bullying moneylender is confronted with a

sharp solicitor we shall find his power over
the Syringa to be mythical. Secondly, I
have no doubt that when the mortgage has
to be paid off I can obtain the money for
you if the property is anything like what you
represent it to be. Lastly, with your permission,
I'll call in my partner in embryo.
I've a notion in days gone by he also
patronized this Cudemore ; he might give usa
hint, and mind, Mrs. Foxborough, I'm
training him to business. Come here,
Herbert, we want you for a minute."

Yes, and he's rather popular on this
side of the room just now," replied Nid.
*' Mamma monopolizing two young men is
sheer tyranny."

"We only want him for two minutes,
Nid," replied Soames, laughing. " A matter
of business."

Oh ! dear ; we don't require him in that
capacity in the least ; you had better go,
sir."

'* What is it ? " said Herbert, as he crossed
the room.

You told me one night at Marlborough,
if I don't mistake, that you once had some
dealings with a money-lender of the name
of Cudemore ? "

Yes, the thief, he's slippery as an eel
What about him ? "

May I tell him, Mrs. Foxborough ? "
asked Phil.

The manageress nodded assent, and then
Soames told the story of Mr. Cudemore's
audacious claim to look into the books, seethe
receipts, and otherwise interfere with
the management of the Syringa.

The confounded scoundrel," exclaimed
Morantt, " I've half a mind to break every
bone in his body, only I've an idea it is
unnecessary. Listen, Phil, the forty-eight
hours stipulated is up. We came prepared
to stay the night in town. Let Bessie stay
here as originally proposed, but let you and

I, instead of going to an hotel, take the train
back to Marlborough. Be guided by me
this time, Phil"

Herbert's quick enough, Mrs. Foxborough,
when he takes the trouble to think. He
knows what he's talking about now and I
don't, but I have no hesitation about putting
myself into his hands."

Good ! Mrs. Foxborough," said Morantt,
I may be mistaken, but I've an impression
Cudemore will trouble you no more."

"And I feel sure," said Philip, as he bade
his hostess adieu, " that mortgage can be
arranged. Eemember, you've a right to claim
my assistance now."

Then the two young men made their farewells
to the girls. Bessie kissed her fiancee,
and shook hands with her future brother-in-law
; if they thought it necessary they
should go no doubt it was so ; but Nid was
not to be dismissed so easily. The little
coquette affected to pout, and said that if

Herbert and lier new brother were satisfied
with such a flying visit as that she was afraid
the sight of her was not good in the king's
eyes, and here she looked at Phil ; but at this
juncture her lover caught her in his arms,
and, lifting her off her feet, snatched half-a-dozen
kisses, then putting her down breathless
and indignant, rushed out of the room,
followed by Phil.

Ah ! " said Nid, when she was able to
speak, " that's what it is to be little ; nobody,
not even strong tall Phil, could subject you
to such an outrage."

Oh, yes," rejoined Bessie, laughing, '' I
fancy he could if he tried, and I don't think,
my dear, I should feel any worse about it
than you do."

Miss Hyde, I'm ashamed of you," rejoined
Nid, demurely ; " come and have some tea."

CHAPTER XIII.

NO LONGER "AT FAULT."

As soon as Phil Soames and Morantt arrived
in Marlborough, they hurried off to the home
of the former, and had just time to tumble
into their evening clothes previous to joining
the dinner-table, at which their unexpected
advent occasioned no little surprise on the
part of Phil's parents. However, as this
worthy pair were completely ignorant of what
had taken the young men to town, some
vague excuse about having changed their
minds amply sufficed to allay their curiosity.
The meal over, Phil and Morantt adjourned
to the former's sanctum, as they often did
for an after-dinner cisfar.

No sooner had they gained it upon this
occasion than Morantt said, " Of course, Phil,
we didn't come here to smoke to-night. Well
just light our cigarettes, and then we must
go across to Dr. Inglebyby's, and see if he has
any news of Mr. Usher. He should have."

'all right," rejoined Soames ; "you're in
command, you know."

So off to Dr. Inglebyby's, only some quarter
of a mile away, the two started. The Doctor
was as much astonished to see them as had
been old Mr. and Mrs. Soames.

'why, I thought you where not coming
down till tomorrow," he exclaimed, the customary
greetings over.

"Quite right," replied Morantt; "but something
we heard in London made us think it
desirable to see Mr. Usher as soon as possible.
He promised me to be here to-night."

"And he has been. He came, he said, to
tell us the complete story of the Bunbury
mystery; but when he found you two were

not here, he asked permission to postpone
his story, as he seemed to think it probable
you might clear up one or two points about
which he is still doubtful, if you only heard
the story. He hasn't been gone a quarter
of an hour."

'' How deuced unlucky," exclaimed Morantt.

Nonsense, Herbert," cried Phil Soames.
He can't have left the town. Where does
he put up, Doctor ? "

At the Woolpack ; and we shall probably
find him there, if I send for him."

Nonsense, Doctor ; I'll go myself," exclaimed
Morantt. '"'You two just wait quietly
here, and I'll be back with Mr. Usher in a
quarter of an hour at furthest," and with
these words Herbert vanished.

Little was said between the Doctor and
Phil Soames during the interval of Morantt's
absence ; they were both too anxious to listen
to the coming revelation to speak much.

The quarter of an hour had hardly elapsed

when Herbert entered triumphantly, closely
followed by Sergeant Usher.

Good evening, Mr. Soames ; and once
more good evening, Doctor Inglebyby. I'm
very glad, gentlemen, you came back, and
that Mr. Morantt came and fetched me, for
I should like to tell you the whole story of
the Bunbury murder before I leave Baum-borough,
as you have been, so to speak, alla
bit mixed up in it, and are certainly all
interested in the riddle. I must leave for
town by the 11 '30, but I've got a good hour
and a half to spare, which will much more
than suffice to tell my story."

"You can easily imagine. Sergeant, weare
all extremely anxious to hear it," replied
Dr. Inglebyby ; " indeed, these two gentlemen
came back from London for nothing else."

So Mr. Morantt tells me, sir," rejoined the
Sergeant, as he quietly seated himself and
commenced his narrative : —

James Foxborough (and as far as I

know that is his real name) started in life
as articled clerk to an attorney in London.
Like many of that class, he had a o-reat
fondness for the theatre. Somehow or other,
at one of the minor suburban theatres, he
scraped acquaintance with Miss Nydia Willoughby,
then a struggling young actress,
and concerning whose earlier history I know
no more than I learnt from Mr. Soames in
this room a few weeks back. Nor is it in
the least necessary I should. The two fell
in love, and after a little married. James
Foxborough broke his articles, and managed,
through his wife's influence, to obtain a small
engagement on the stage. But unluckily he
was not possessed of what the literary people
call histrionic powers. His wife kept steadily
fighting her way upwards, but he just as
steadily dropped into a mere super. He was
entrusted with letters to carry on, and about
two lines to say ; and his salary, gentlemen
about as short as his part. Well, to do

Foxborough justice, he was clear grit ; he'd
no idea of living on his wife's earnings, and
as soon as he had satisfactorily ascertained
that he couldn't earn bread and cheese on
the stage, he announced his intention of
seeking it elsewhere, and they parted, quite
amicably. Mind now, you may ask how can
I know all this ? I only reply, I know the
main facts of the case so far, and have filled
in the remainder by inference, as any one
of you might, and probably would do.

Now," continued the Sergeant, " the idea
that had occurred to James Foxborough, byway
of earning his living, was to fall back
upon his old profession. His experience as
an actor had made him pretty sick of the
stage as a profession ; the gilt was all off
the gingerbread as far as he was concerned ;
but remember, he had broken his articles ;
and though I don't suppose — though I honestly
confess I don't know — that there is
any very severe penalty for that, still it

was quite sufficient to make him change his
name, and leave London. To begin upon,
he was not an attorney, and how he managed
to get his name on the rolls I can't say —
I lose sight of him here for two years or
more ; when I next pick him up he's practising
in Baumborouo;h, under the name of
John Fossdyke."

What ! " cried Dr. Inglebyby, '' you mean
to tell us that John Fossdyke and James
Foxborough are the same man ? "

"Not a doubt about it," rejoined Mr.
Usher.

Impossible ! " exclaimed Morantt. " Very
much alike, if you will ; but the same man —
ridiculous."

I told you it was a beautiful case," rejoined
the Sergeant ; " and the reason we
could never find the slightest trace of James
Foxborough, is that he is buried in John
Fossdyke's grave."

*' But, good God ! Mr. Usher, if your story

is true," said Dr. Inglebyby, 'poor Mrs. Foss-clyde
was never married."

Undoubtedly not. Her husband's name
wasn't Fossdyke, for one thing, and he was
already married, for another. Now Fox-borough,"
continued the Sergeant, " when he
first came to Marlborough was a very poor
man. He constantly ran up to town, and
received, I fancy, a good bit of assistance
still from his wife. And now, Dr. Inglebyby,
I should feel much obliged if you would continue
the story."

Certainly," replied the Doctor, " and the
bit you want nobody can piece in better than
myself. Fossdyke, or I suppose I should say
Foxborough, gradually began to acquire a fair
practice here ; he was a pushing man, who
would have his finger in every pie that was
baking. He was a plausible man, with great
command of words, a popular man, and to
some extent a clever man, and the farmers
around especially took to him. You see he

had some sporting proclivities, liked a day's
hunting, a day's shooting, or a day's steeplechasing,
when he could find time for it,
and in those days he was clever enough to
know that it paid in the long run to make
time for it. His practice rapidly increased,
and he became a man of mark in the town ;
then he made his great hit in life — I'm
speaking of him as Fossdyke — he married
Mary Kimberley. This at once gave a status
it would have taken him some years yet to
acquire, and thanks to the interest his marriage
gave him, he shortly afterwards acquired the
post of Town Clerk. I have got nothing
further to add than this, that though his
income was an exceedingly handsome one, and
though he apparently lived well within it, yet
there were invariably tales about the difficulty
the tradesmen had in getting money from
him.

*eyes, Doctor," interposed Mr. Usher,
that's where it was ; that'll be about the time

VOL. III. p

he went into a good many provincial theatrical
specs which terminated all the wrong way,
and it was on these speculations he contrived
to make away with the best part of Mrs.
Fossdyke's money. Then at last came his first
theatrical hit — he built and started the
Syringa Music-hall, and to do that, Doctor,
he appropriated between five and six thousand
pounds of the Corporation funds."

Impossible, Mr. Usher, if such a thing
had not come out in his life-time it must have
done at his death."

And that is just what has happened,"
replied the sergeant, 'that wearisome Totter-dell
creature has discovered it, though he is
not exactly aware of the real meaning of his
discovery. Wheja the Corporation, as I'm told
at Mr. Tottered ell's instance, voted for the
calling in of that mortgage on the houses and
buildings belonging to the railway company
near the station in order to pay for their new
theatre, the discovery of Foxborough's fraudulent

appropriation of their moneys was imminent.
It was then that he went to one
Cudemore, to whom he had often applied
before, indeed, had recourse to him about the
building of the Syringa, the misappropriated
money not proving sufficient, and raised from
him with the assistance of Mr. Sturton, the
great Bond Street tailor, the requisite sum to
cover his deficiencies, and but for Mr. Totterdell,
who is always nosing round like a
truffle doo' about his neighbours' affairs, I
don t suppose any one would have ever known
anything about that quiet borrowing of the
Corporation's money. He somehow found out
that no such mortgage was ever effected,
although five per cent, interest was regularly
credited to the Corporation on account of
it."

Most extraordinary," said Dr. Inglebyby.
'' I can't conceive this never havens come to
my ears."

As for Phil Soames and Morantt, they sat

P 2

silent and absorbed in the extraordinary
history that Mr. Usher was slowly unfolding
for their edification.

*not at all, sir," replied the Sergeant.
Mr. Totterdell so very imperfectly understands
his discovery that he is actually unable
to talk about it. You must bear in mind,
gentlemen, that though I can prove all my
leading points, I am filling in my story here
and there from what I suppose to have been
the case. We next come to the opening of
the Marlborough Theatre, and here for the
first time the author of the Bunbury mystery
appears upon the scene. AVhat brought Mr.
Cudemore there I honestly say I don't know,
but "

Good gracious ! you mean to say, then,
that the money-lender was the murderer of
poor Fossdyke ? — I should say Foxborough,"
exclaimed Dr. Inglebyby.

Just so," replied the Sergeant, perfectly
unmoved. '' These two gentlemen have heard

his name before, I fancy, at all events Mr.
Morantt has. As I was saying, what brought
him down to that ceremony I can t fathom,
but I do know this, that for the first time he
became aware that John Fossdyke and James
Foxborough were one, were the same individual.
That a man of Cudemore's stamp
should attempt to make capital out of such
knowledge is a mere matter of course ; that he
wrote the note which took Mr. Fossdyke over
to Bunbury I can prove. Mr. Morantt, there,
can swear to the handwriting for one, and I
have another unimpeachable witness to testify
to it besides. Now, gentlemen, just consider
what that note meant to the dead man. He,
of course, recognized the handwriting, and the
signature, James Foxborough, told him his
secret was discovered. He goes over to Bun-bury
to see what terms he can make with the
man who has surprised his secret. He knows
Cudemore well, and no doubt is prepared for
exorbitant demands on the part of the moneylender.

What Cuclemore did ask we shall
perhaps never know. It may be he demanded
a very large slice back of that six thousand
which he, in conjunction with Mr. Sturton,
had lent. That, as wee know, Foxborough
could not comply with. He had already used
the whole of the money to conceal his breach
of trust in connection with the funds of the
Municipal Council. But whatever Cudemore
wanted, we may feel pretty certain it was not
Foxborough's life. That he did slay him I
believe, but it was undoubtedly an unpremeditated
murder. When men of this stamp
get a hold over their fellows, and intend to
make them what my brethren in Paris call
sing," or as we term it,— black-mail them, of
course the victim's life is the last thing aimed
at. They want perpetual hush-money from
him, and his death naturally puts an end to
all that. Now, gentlemen, if any of you can
give me any clue to what Cudemore's motive
can have been — that is to say, what it was he

wanted to wring* from Foxboroup^h — I shall be
obliged to you ? "

"All we know amounts to this," said
Soames. " Ever since the murder Cudemore
has shown a great desire to get the Syringa
Music-hall into his own hands. He has given
notice of foreclosing the mortgage, evidently
relying upon Mrs. Foxborough's inability to
find the six thousand pounds with which to
meet it."

The Sergeant thought for a few minutes,
and then said to Mr. Soames, " I can't think
that could have been the cause of the murder.
Has Cudemore any quarrel with Mrs. Fox-borough
that you know of ? "

Certainly Mrs. Foxborough thinks he has
treated her very badly about the Syringa,"
replied Morantt, "and declines to have anything
to do with him, saying when the time
comes if she cannot find the money he must
take the music-hall."

Neither Soames nor Morantt were in the

least aware of the money-lender's mad passion
for Nid.

"No," said Mr. Usher, "that is a consequence
of the murder, but certainly not the
cause of it. Even in his first moments of
exasperation at finding he couldn't have his
slice back of the six thousand he had lent,
Cudemore would never have been such a fool
as that. With the hold he had over Fox-borough
he could have become a partner in
the Syringa on his own terms. Well, gentlemen,
it's no use trying to guess a riddle now,
which the trial will probably solve. We have
brought the thing down now to this : Cude-
more, at the opening of the Marlborough
Theatre, convinced himself that James Fox-borough
and John Fossdyke were one man.
Whether he suspected it before I don't know,
nor does it matter. Taking advantage of his
discovery, he summons Fossdyke to dine with
him at Bunbury, and what concession he demanded
to hold his tongue we don't know,

but in the sitting-room the two men quarrelled,
and either by accident or design Cudemore
stabbed his companion to the heart. He then
carried him into the adjoining room, divested
him of his dress coat, and placed him as he
was found."

But don't you think," said Soames, " that
a man like poor Fossdyke might be stung to
such madness by finding his secret at the
mercy of a man like Cudemore as to lay violent
hands on himself."

Quite possible, sir ; but first Dr. Inglebyby
will tell you that from the peculiar direction of
the wound it could hardly have been self-inflicted.
Secondly, if he is an innocent man
why did not Mr. Cudemore come forward and
tell his story ; and lastly, there's that third
point, which was pretty well proved at the
inquest, if the door was not locked from the
outside, where was the key ? "

"It might have been thrown out of the
window," said Herbert.

'now really, Mr. Morantt, rejoined the
Sergeant, with a deprecatory smile, " that's a
cutting observation to a crack officer of the
Yard. You can't suppose but wdiat I had
every inch of ground under that window
searched that very afternoon as far round as
it was possible for a man to throw a key. No,
it was an off chance, but I didn't overlook it ;
and now, gentlemen, I must say good night, as
I have to catch the mail train."

One word more, Mr. Usher," said Soames.
I suppose Mrs. Foxborough need fear no
further molestation from Mr. Cudemore ? "

Neither she nor any one else for a very
considerable time to come. Mr. Cudemore will
be in custody about breakfast time tomorrow
morning. Once more, good night, gentlemen."

Usher's case is beautifully clear," said the
Doctor, as the detective left the room, " but
there'll be no conviction of murder, I fancy."

"No," said Soames, "he'll get off with
manslaughter, I'm inclined to think."

CHAPTER Xii.

MR. CUDEMORE's arrest.

Ox his way home from the Syringa Music-hail
after his final rebuff from Mrs. Fox-borough,
Mr. Cudemore first awoke to the fact
that he was dogged. A rather less expert
tracked than Old Nibs had for a little taken
that worthy's place, and the money-lender's
eyes had fallen mechanically upon a shabby
genteel young man as he left the Hall.
Coming: down Portland Street he rather suddenly
struck into one of the side streets leading
into Portland-place, then suddenly recollecting
the want of some small article of haberdashery
such as he was accustomed to purchase at a
shop in Oxford Street, turned about abruptly

to retrace his steps. At the corner he ran
almost into the arms of the shabby genteel
young man he had noticed outside the Syringa.
In an instant all the money-lender's suspicions
were aroused, he pursued the even tenor of his
way into Oxford Street, but like a woman now
he had eyes in the back of his head. He
walked home quite leisurely, and knew perfectly
well that shabby young man followed
him like his shadow. To take a cab Mr.
Cudemore knew would be useless. If he was,
as he had no doubt now, under the surveillance
of the police, they knew perfectly where
he lived, and any attempt to evade his unwelcome
attendant was ridiculous. Besides, go
home he must, if it was only to get that
thousand pounds which he had just procured
for this very emergency. Peeping from behind
his curtains, Mr. Cudemore caught occasional
glances of the shabby young man lounging
pensively up and down the street. He was a
young officer, new to his business, and undoubtedly

rather too pronounced in his manner
of conducting it.

If they were only all such differs as that
muttered the money-lender, '' the idea of not
being able to slip the police at any moment
would be preposterous."

And then he prepared to go out and dine
and enjoy himself. He dined and drank a
bottle of champagne at the Criterion, and then
once more adjourned to a theatre. He did not
see the shabby young man any more, but felt
quite sure that he was accompanied by an
attendant Sprite, and troubled his head little
about it. To-morrow he would make a bolt of
it. He would complete all his preparations
that night, and disappear from London next
day at such time as might seem to him most
favourable. He had no doubt about compassing
this little matter of evasion of the police,
but still he regarded it as a delicate operation,
and not to be carried out at any fixed period.
After the play, Mr. Cudemore felt that his

spirits required sustaining to the extent of a
pint of champagne and a dozen of oysters, and
accordingly so sustained them. Then he drove
quietly home to make preparations for his
flight. These consisted for the most part in
the burning of several letters and papers.
Then he packed a small hand-bag with great
care, and laid out his overcoat and railway
rug. Finally he took from his writing-table a
well-stuffed note case, and placed it on the
dressing-table, and then Mr. Cudemore undressed
and went to bed.

As to what direction his flight was to take
Mr. Cudemore was not so clear, but he had a
leaning towards Scotland. As for baffling the
police at the rate of abandoning his hand-bag,
railway rug, &c., that he thought would not
be difficult. He thought that once he had
taken his ticket and his seat with such slender
baggage they would feel quite sure of his
absconding, and fancy they knew all about
it. His idea, then, was to get into a second-class

carriage at the last moment, and leave
the train at the very first station. For this
purpose he intended to take two tickets — one
first right through for Edinburgh, say if he
took that line ; the other second for the first
station out of London, and it need scarcely be
said he had no intention of travelling by
express. The idea was ingenious, and it is
much to be regretted that Mr. Cudemore was
never destined to put his scheme to the test,
but his passion for Nid Foxborough was
destined to prove fatal to him as the candle
to the moth. . Mr. Cudemore might have left
the country at one time without let, hindrance,
or suspicion, but that time was now gone by.
The toils were around him, and that mighty
Nimrod of criminal humanity, Mr. Usher, had
marked him for his own.

Having ascertained from one of his myrmidons
on his return to town that Mr. Cude-
more was in his own house, the Sergeant,
with that consideration for his victim which

always characterized his proceedings, resolved
to allow lira one more night in his own
comfortable rooms, and having warned another
officer to come over to his (Mr. Usher's)
quarters punctually at eight, the Sergeant
went home and tranquilly slept within fifty
yards of his intended prisoner.

The appointed time found Mr. Usher all
dressed and ready for business. No sooner
did he see from his window the approach of
the constable than the Sergeant descended
rapidly to the street and joined his colleague.
The habits of Mr. Cudemore's establishment
were accurately known. The charwoman who
cleaned out the offices arrived at eight, the
office-boy (or third clerk, as he loved to
designate himself) at nine, and the other
two clerks at ten ; consequently when Mr.
Usher presented himself he found the charwoman
sweeping the steps, banging the mats
against the neighbouring railings, and the
door wide open.

Lawk-a-mussy, it's the service ! " claimed
that lady as Mr. Usher, followed by the constable
in uniform, pushed past her. The
Sergeant knew all about the house quite as
much as if he had lived in it all his life,
and ascended at once to the second floor ;
there he paused, and turning round, said to
his follower :

Wait here, Brooks, and don't come in till
I call you ; " and then Mr. Usher quietly
opened the bed-room door and found himself
face to face with Mr. Cudemore, half-dressed,
and grasping a hairbrush in either hand.

Who the devil are you ? What the deuce
do you mean by coming up here in this sort
of way ? " exclaimed the money-lender angrily,
but even as he spoke his lips tightened and
he knew that the avenger was upon him.

Now, Mr. Cudemore, it's no use making
a fuss about it. I'm Sergeant Usher, and
I've come to arrest you for the murder of
John Fossdyke, at Bunbury, last September."

VOL. III. Q

Arrest me for the murder of John Foss-dyke
! " repeated Mr. Cudemore, and putting
down the brushes he fell back some three or
four paces and stole his hand towards the lid
of a small davenport in a corner of the room.

"Yes," said the Sergeant, as he sprang
forward, quick, agile as a wild cat, and pinned
Mr. Cudemore by the wrist. " None of that
nonsense ! What's the use of your fumbling
for a revolver. Bless your innocence, you'll
find another man on the landing, and another
at the door, and will never get fifty yards
without being arrested. Do you think shooting
me is the way to prove yourself not guilty.
Don't be a fool ; just finish dressing yourself
before I slip on the bracelets, and we'll have
a cab and go across to the Yard quietly till
it's time to go down to Westminster."

All 'right, Mr. Usher," said the moneylender.
" Excuse a slight error of judgment
owing to the excitement of the moment."

Cudemore then proceeded leisurely to complete

his toilet, and at last emerged from the
dressing-room with that particularly well-stuffed
note-case in his hand.

Shall I be allowed to keep this ? " he
asked. "There's a good lot of money in it."

** Chuck full of bank-notes, I can see ? "
replied Mr. Usher. *' Of course, it will be
yours till you are committed, and you will
be that before mid-day. Then, you know,
we take care of it for you, or hand it over
to any one you please to name."

Yes, there's a good deal more than tito
hundred pounds here," said Cudemore slowly.
*' I've nothing to say to this Bunbury affair,
of course, but the mere accusation is an awful
stigma for a professional man like myself.
I've often heard men of your craft have made
more money by missing a thief than finding
him."

Stow that, Mr. Cudemore. I understand
what you mean of course, but Silas Usher's
never worked on the cross yet, and he isn't

Q 2

going to begin. Now, sir, as soon as you're
ready I'll send Brooks for a cab. All right,"
continued the Sergeant, as the money-lender
signified a sullen assent ; then putting his head
outside the door, Mr. Usher briefly observed,
'growled, Brooks, quick as you can."

They had not many minutes to wait before
Brooks announced the cab was at the door,
and then Mr. Usher advancing said, " I don t
want to be uncivil, but I must slip these on."

One moment, please," exclaimed Cude-
more, " reach me an envelope out of the
davenport behind you. They weill never take
this from me ? " he asked anxiously, as he
removed a photograph from the book.

No," said the Sergeant, eyeing him curiously.
" I fancy you'll be allowed to retain
that."

Cudemore put the photograph carefully into
the envelope, and then placing it with the
note-case in his breast-pocket, simply held
out his hands and said, " I am ready."

In an instant the steel handcuffs snapped
round his wrists, and he quietly preceded Mr.
Us her to the door at which Brooks stood
waiting. Mr. Usher followed him down the
stairs, and having seen the money-lender and
the constable into a cab, delegated to the latter
worthy the task of conveying the prisoner to
Scotland Yard, some two or three hundred
yards distance only, and turned back into
the house to make a cursory overhaul of Mr.
Cudemore's apartments.

It was not that Mr. Usher expected to get
much out of the investigation, but it was a
piece of mechanical work that he never neglected.
None knew better than the Sergeant
the curious monomania that compels murderers
to preserve some damning evidence of their
crime. It is always so trivial that in their
eyes it cannot matter, and yet that little link
is just the thing that knots the noose round
their throats. Few now recollect the great
Mansfield Hall murder, and yet the want of

a wedding certificate brought Rush to the
gallows. He was hung on the evidence of
his mistress, whose evidence, had she been
his wife, was inadmissible.

Mr. Usher flitted and peered about the
sitting-room and dining-room like a magpie,
but without any result ; though it is fair to
say the money-lender's locks were respected
and only his open repositories subjected to
search, and then the Sergeant once more
ascended to the second floor. His investigations
here met with little more result till he
came to the dressing-table and threw open
the drawers ; the first contained simply some
half-dozen razors and a packet of shaving-paper,
but in the second, amidst a lot of
knickknacks, such as old studs, disabled
pins, and broken sleeve-links, Mr. Usher
observed something which set him a pondering.


It would be odd if it were," said he, " but
nevertheless it's odd its being here by itself.

Still, it's so astonishing the mistakes they all
make that the man who can bring off a
great murder is a genius almost. Anyway
I'll take you," and what Mr. Usher put into
his pocket was an ordinary chamber key.

CHAPTER XV.

"the trial."

The B banbury mystery had pretty well
died out of men's minds, and when alluded
to people shook their heads and opined the
police would never take Foxborough now ;
so when the first edition of the ' Globe *
came out with the "Bunbury Mystery-^
Arrest of the Murderer," in the largest
type, there was quite a sensation in London.
Newspaper boys trotted along, bellowing at
the top of their voices what sounded like
*' Bum'stery arrest of the murder," and got
double prices for their wares. At the clubs
tongues were wagging ; and when it was
known Mr. Cudemore, the money-lender, was

in custody on the charge, wagging faintly
expressed the pace at which they oscillated.

There were members, for instance, at the
Theatine who could speak with undoubted
authority regarding Mr. Cudemore, and not
in that loose and desultory fashion in which
they had manufactured biography for James
Foxborough. Although the money-lender had
been prone to invest his money in theatrical
circles, Mr. Sturton sent him many a client
from the jeunesse donee, and there were members
of the Theatine who pondered gravely
how this would affect certain acceptances,
the renewal of which would be so infinitely
simpler than the taking of them up. And
the members of the Theatine being, as a
rule, like the Heathen Chinee, of a disposition
" childlike and bland," always preferred
the simpler course.

The arrest of the murderer sufficed to fan
the waning interest of the public once more
into a flame over the Bunbury mystery.

That the accused should be one whose trade
was usury added an additional whet to the
public appetite, always prejudiced against
these philanthropists, regarding them invariably
as endowed with hearts of granite and
no bowels of compassion — a view of the
London money-lender which the Northumberland
Street tragedy of some twenty years
ago tended much to strengthen. Arraigned
of any such crime, and public opinion is
apt to condemn the luckless usurer without
waiting for the production of evidence. The
later editions contained an account of the
prisoners appearance at Westminster, which,
of course, ended in his being remanded.

In these days, as we all know, a man accused
of a capital crime is generally tried three times.
First, before the coroner ; secondly, before the
police magistrates ; and thirdly, before a judge
and jury. Our system of justice is doubtless
perfect, but no one can say it is either speedy
or inexpensive. It will be only necessary,

therefore, to say that after some few days,
during which the public were once more roused
to fervent interest about the great Bunbury
murder, Mr. Cudemore was committed to
Newgate, there to await his trial.

A great artist was Sergeant Usher. If
ever there was a man, to speak metaphorically,
who delighted in keeping a few trumps up his
sleeve, it was him. Very little of the real
story oozed out at Westminster. He confined
himself entirely to proving that Cudemore was
the stranger at the Marlborough Theatre,
that Cudemore was No. 11 at the Hoping,
and that Cudemore was the writer of the
note, and the man John Fossdyke dined with.
Quite sufficient this to justify a committal,
and concerning the identity of John Fossdyke
with James Foxborough the Sergeant adduced
no evidence whatever. To his intense disgust,
even Mr. Totterdell was not brought
to London to give his evidence, Mr. Usher
preferring to rely upon Miss Lightcomb's

testimony as to Mr. Cudemore having been
present at the opening of the Marlborough
Theatre, while he only called upon Morantt to
testify to the prisoner's handwriting. In the
smoking-room of the Theatine it was agreed
that if more evidence on this point was desirable
they could furnish it, and then some
astute rhetorician started the problem as to
whether when a usurer came to his death
by premature strangulation, acceptances become
void or payable to the Crown, and this knotty
point led to much wordy argument and consumption
of drinks.

But the very fact of so little having come
out in the public court only further awoke
the curiosity of the public. Where was Fox-borough
? What had become of him ? He,
of course, was in the background ; the man
couldn't be a myth. Foxborough, lessee of
the Syringa, was a fact, an undoubted fact.
There were plenty of people who knew the
Syringa, and knew that James Foxborough

was the lessee, but when it came to any knowledge
of the man's personality, these people
were lamentably abroad, and constrained to
admit they had never seen him. Still, the
Bunbury murder was once more the topic of
the day, and Headstone assizes were looked
forward to with absorbing interest by no inconsiderable
section of the community.

A cause celebre in these days of diffusion
of universal knowledge, like libel and scandal,
is apt to attract considerable attention. It
attracts two large sections of the public, those
who have nothing to do, and to whom a
public scandal or case of this nature is a boon
inasmuch as it gives them something; to think
about and talk about, and that busy division
to whom it is something; like a Teat realistic
novel, unravelling itself day by day. Further,
it must be noted that ]mr. Cudemore was a
man of resources, and in a position to engage
equally eminent counsel to those retained for
the Crown.

Mr. Baron Bumblesliam, elected to try the
case, was doubtless as incorruptible and
impartial as English judges invariably are,
but we cannot help our proclivities. Baron
Bumblesham's were aristocratic. He metaphorically
sat up like a poodle on his hind
legs to a Duchess, he stood literally on his
head to Loyalty. He delighted in presiding
over a sensational trial. It enabled him to
gratify his aristocratic friends with " orders,"
and, like a judicious theatrical manager, he
usually kept "his show" running as long as
it would draw. In short, there were all the
elements of a sensational trial about the Bun-bury
mystery, and, as said before, a sensational
trial is a thing loved of the people.

Fashionable London, like fashionable Rome,
takes a great interest in seeing a fellow-creature
hounded to his death, although the matrons
of the earlier empire city enjoyed the more
extended privilege of seeing them die by the
dozen, while the ladies of London must be

content to see one man wrestle for his life at a
time. Civilization, in spite of all our bragging,
does not advance very much, and the inherent
cruelty of human nature is ever seeking to
gratify its taste.

Headstone was within such easy distance of
London that many of that mysterious " upper
ten thousand," the fragment of the great city
not condemned to labour for their living,
determined to attend the trial. Mr. Baron
Bumblesham found himself inundated with
applications from the magnates of the land
for seats on the bench, and Mr. Baron Bubbles
smiled, smirked, and promised to do his
best for His Grace and My Lord, and threw
the cards of Jones and Smith contemptuously
into the waste-paper basket. It was widely
rumoured that this would be one of the most
sensational trials of the age ; and that the
police should suddenly arrest a man for the
murder whose name had never as yet been
mentioned in connection with it, and in

defiance of the strong presumptive evidence
there was against the missing Foxborough,
seemed to warrant such belief. When Sir
Horace Silverton rose to open the case for the
prosecution you might have heard a pin drop
in the court, so anxious were the densely-packed
audience to hear the mysterious story
unfolded by one of the most gifted and fluent
speakers of the Bar. Quietly and smoothly
did Sir Horace run through all the preliminary
story of the murder with which the public was
well acquainted, and those who knew him best
felt that he was simply clearing the ground for
the effect he felt confident of producing.

When Silverton begins in that way he hasa
devil of a case in the background," remarked
a leading counsel on the circuit. " I'm going
into the other court, just send round for me
when he wakes up. He's not going to talk
like that all the time, I know. He'll be worth
listening to before he sits down."

o

The preliminary ground cleared, Sir Horace,

as fine a judge of dramatic effect as ever
appealed to a jury, paused for a moment,
passed his handkerchief across his brow, and
then continued his address in a totally different
tone. The quiet, clear, well-modulated voice
was now exchanged for the impassioned, fervid
accents with which men enunciate great creeds
to the world. " Gentlemen," he said, " one
James Foxborough, lessee of a Music-Hail
called the Syringa, has so far borne the odium
of this crime. I am about to acquit that
luckless person, I trust, of any concern in it.
At all events I shall produce, in the first place,
evidence before you to prove that James Fox-borough,
of the Syringa, and John Fossdyke,
solicitor of Marlborough, were one and the
same person. Evidence, gentlemen, past all
dispute." Here the sensation in court was
such that Sir Horace had to pause for a
minute or two " It is curious, it will be hard
for many of his friends in Marlborough to
confess that their trusted co-mate of so many

VOL. III. R

years has been a living lie all this time ; more
especially, gentlemen, will it be hard," and
here Sir Horace dropped his voice to that
intense whisper with which all real masters of
oratory are conversant, " to those two ladies
who have each in their different sphere regarded
themselves as his wife. I purpose to
trespass upon the private history of James
Foxborough, alias John Fossdyke, no more
than is absolutely necessary. This inquiry, as
I have already pointed out, must be necessarily
painful to many people, and it is no wish of
the prosecution to make it more so than is
unavoidable. The identity of Foxborough
with Fossdyke I am compelled to prove, but I
desire to go no further into his dual history.
We next, gentlemen, come to the accused.
Evidence will be brought before you to show
that this was undoubtedly the person who
stopped at the Hoping, aud with whom the
deceased went over to Bunbury to dine. His
note of invitation, sickened James Foxborough,"

and here Sir Horace paused as the prisoner,
hitherto immovable, could not refrain from a
slight start — " happens by a curious accident
to have been preserved, and I need scarcely
say we shall have no difficulty in identifying
the handwriting to your entire satisfaction.
What it was that the defendant sought to
extort from the deceased we don't pretend to
know, but there can be little doubt that at the
opening of the Marlborough Theatre he surprised
James Foxborough's secret, became
aware of his dual existence, and that he took
advantage of this knowledge to attempt the
levying of black-mail in some form or other.
You will, of course, have observed, gentlemen,
that in addition to the charge of murder we
have included the minor plea of manslaughter
against the prisoner, and I am happy to inform
you," — and here Sir Horace became confidential
to the jury, and apparently confined
his address entirely to them with a total disregard
of the judge and general public — '' that

R 2

the theory of the prosecution and the evidence
we shall adduce in support of it is more in
accordance with the secondary charge. My
learned friends on the other side will doubtless
be able to put forward many most legitimate
reasons in favour of that view of the case, and
it is very possible may argue that the deceased
committed suicide ; but that James Fox-borough
did not die with his own hand I feel
sure of demonstrating to your entire satisfaction,"
and here Sir Horace sat down amidst
a subdued buzz of applause, and left the
examining of the witnesses for the present to
Mr. Trail his junior.

To recapitulate all the evidence we have
had about the Bunbury murder would be
simply wearisome both to myself and my
readers, but for the proper understanding of
the story we must just briefly glance at the
salient points in the case.

The first witness called was Miss Lightcomb,
the actress, who looked very pretty and

flustered, making a most attractive and interesting
witness with which to commence a
sensational trial. Her testimony was brief,
and simply associated with the fact that she
was acquainted with Mr. Cudemore, and had
met him behind the scenes at the opening of
the Marlborough Theatre. The counsel for
the defence declined to cross-examine her, and
it was of course transparent at once to Sir
Horace Silverton and Mr. Trail that their
opponents meant to put forward the theory
that John Fossdyke met his death at his own
hands. This was only what they expected,
and it rather amused them to think of the
terrible trump card they held in the background.


The next witness was our old friend, Mr.
Totterdell ; the supreme moment of his life
had at length arrived, and it is no hyperbole
to say that he swelled, so to speak, in the box
like a turkey-cock with his plumes en evidence.
Mr. Totterdell was the man who could speak

to the identity of the prisoner at the bar. Mr.
Totterdell was the man who had formed his
theory concerning the great Bunbury murder,
and Mr. Totterdell was about to explain to a
listening impatient world how Cudemore, the
paid agent of the old villain Foxborough, had
compassed the death of John Fossdyke. But,
sad to say, the coroner, in his arbitrary
curtness, was as nothing to Mr. Trail, the
examining barrister for the Crown. Some
half-dozen questions amply sufficed to establish
the identity of the prisoner at the bar with the
stranger who sat next to Mr. Totterdell at the
opening of the Marlborough Theatre ; and,
then, not only did Mr. Trail intimate that he
had nothing further to ask, but the counsel for
the defence equally seemed no more desirous
of Mr. Totterdell's views or knowledge on the
subject. When Mr. Totterdell, clutching frantically
at his fast diminishing opportunity,
commenced, apropos to nothing, to say, " And
it's my opinion, my lord," he was sternly

informed that his opinion was not required,
and when he faltered forth that he " wished to
explain," he was sharply told that if he did
not hold his tongue and immediately leave the
witness-box he would be committed for contempt
of court. Mr. Winkle, after giving his
evidence in the famous case of Barely versus
Pickwick was not more hopelessly crushed
than was Mr. Totterdell as he retired from the
arena in which he had contemplated immortalizing
himself. He was like a man stunned
and could hardly realize his opportunity had
been and was lost.

The next witnesses were the people of the
Hoping. Old Joe Marlinson, in a mingled
state of trepidation, exasperation, and rather
too much liquor, was a comic witness whom
Mr. Trail handled tenderly. He was simply,
of course, called upon to identify the prisoner
with the gentleman who had taken No. 11
bed-room last September, and with whom Mr.
Fossdyke had dined. A little erratic and

irrelevant in his testimony no doubt, as was
William Gibbons, the boots, who followed him,
but both quite clear as to Mr. Cudemore's
personality. But when Eliza Salter, the
chambermaid, entered the box, and Sir Horace
Silverton himself took her in hand, a stir ran
through the court, and without knowing why,
people began to feel that one of the great
sensations of what was rumoured would be a
great sensational trial was about to commence.
Her recognition of the prisoner as No. 11,
afterwards known as James Foxborough,
of course created little interest ; but when
Sir Horace skilfully drew from her the
discovery of the note in the empty fire-grate
the court was positively breathless with
excitement.

Yes, she remembered the little old gentleman,
whom she now knew to be Sergeant
Usher, the famous detective, ordering the
fire in that room. She recollected his suddenly
stopping her as she was about to throw

the waste papers she had taken out of the
empty fireplace on the fire she had just lit.
Remembered perfectly his keeping one of
them ; was scolded by her master for having
allowed him to do so ; did not know in the
least what the paper was Mr. Usher preserved
; it seemed to be a small note of some
kind, but she could say nothing more positive
than that."

Close observers noticed that for the first
time the prisoner looked uneasy at the turn
things were taking, and that Mr. Boston, the
counsel for the defence, manifested marked
attention.

Further examined, Eliza Salter said she
could swear to the key of Mr. Fossdyke's
room being in the door when he occupied it.
The door was locked, and had to be broke
open on the afternoon his death was discovered,
which was not till five or six hours
after the prisoner had left the Hoping. Did
not know what became of the key which

was missing, and she had never seen it since
till three days ago."

Great sensation in court.

It was shown her then by Sergeant
Usher. She believed the key shown her to
be the identical key of the bed-room in which
John Fossdyke was discovered dead. Had
seen it tried, and it undoubtedly fitted the
lock as if made for it. It was, of course,
difficult to swear to a key of that description,
but she was of opinion that was the missing
key."

For the first time Mr. Eoyston indulged in
sharp cross-examination, but upon the two
points to which he directed his endeavours, he
failed utterly. Eliza Salter professed to know
nothing whatever about the scrap of a note,
which she had raked out of the empty grate,
and which Sergeant Usher had impounded,
but that he had so seized upon a piece of
paper and kept it, she was very firm and
decided about. That the key of John Foss-dyke's

room was in the door the night lie
dined at the Hoping, she was equally clear
about ; that it was missing next day and
she had never seen it since, till Mr. Usher
produced what she believed to be it, she
was equally positive about, and when she
left the box there was a growing impression
that things were not going altogether well
for the prisoner.

And now came a point in the trial which
not a little discomposed Sergeant Usher.
That eminent detective always prided himself
upon handing a case over so complete
that the attorneys had nothing to do but
put it on paper for counsel's information.
It had never struck Mr. Usher, keen, shrewd
judge as he was of evidence, that there could
be the slightest difficulty in proving John
Fossdyke and James Foxborough to be the
same man, but that was now just what came
to pass. The whole thing became a question
of photographs, and wonderful as these sun

likenesses are at times, still it is within the
knowledge of every one that now and again,
and by no means unfrequently, comes the
carte that we fail to recognize. There were
plenty of people who knew John Fossdyke,
there was no lack of folks who could speak
to the identity of James Foxborough, but
to lay hold of any one who had known the
two men, or rather the one man under the
two aspects, unless it was the prisoner in the
dock, was curiously enough unattainable.

Mr. Usher was troubled considerably at this
point. Mr. Morantt testified, as did some other
witnesses, to their belief that the photograph
of John Fossdyke represented James Fox-borough,
and there were numerous people,
including the photographer himself, to swear
that it was that of the Town Clerk of Baum-borough.
Mr. Eoyston saw his opportunity,
and on cross-examination so shook this evidence
as to leave it open to question whether Fox-borough,
lessee of the Syringa, was not an

entity after all, despite the theory of the prosecution
; but the great eminent lawyer who
had rescued many a graceless neck from the
gallows was no way blind to the fact that
though he misfht establish a mythical Fox-borough
in the background, there was no
getting away from Cudemore, his client,
having been the entertainer of the dead man
at the Hoping. That John Fossdyke committed
suicide was of course the defence he
intended to set up. So far the prosecution
could advance no theory of black-mailing on
the part of his client. The key alone
threatened to be an awkward incident, and-knowing
his friend Sir Horace as well as he
did, and having the experience he had of
Sergeant Usher, Mr. Boston felt sure that
key and that note were the two awkward
features in the case as far as his client was
concerned.

The next evidence produced for the prosecution
was that apparently innocent invitation to

dinner which had lured the dead man to his
doom ; curious, like most of the minor links ina
great crime, on account of its prosaic simplicity,
and horribly suggestive of how little
separates our every-day, humdrum life from
that lurid melodrama we read of in the
newspapers.

Both Morantt and Mr. Sturton swore clearly
to this being the handwriting of the prisoner
at the bar. The former clearly and staunchly,
the second in that nervous, hysterical manner
which, though apt to be terribly disconcerted
by cross-examination, carries irresistible conviction
to the hearts of a jury. Such a witness
may be bullied and frightened by the fierce
battery of questioning to which he finds himself
subjected, but his hearers still feel he is
telling them the truth to the very utmost
of his ability.

And then stepped into the witness-box
Sergeant Usher, and everybody knew that the
great sensational scene of the tragedy was on

at last. A quiet, trained, practical witness
this, who was neither to be flurried nor disconcerted,
who understood exactly how much
reply to give to the questions addressed to
him, and volunteered no uninvited matter.
The Court was so still you might have heard
a pin drop, as the saying goes, while the
famous detective clearly and audibly trickled
forth his discovery of that famous note in the
empty grate of the room occupied by the deadman.
Judge, jury, and the public listened in
that entranced way they yield to the great
effect of a skilled dramatist, when he has what
is technically termed 'caught his audience,"
and when Sir Horace went on to draw forth
the story of Cudemore's arrest, and the finding
of the key, the excitement of the hearers found
vent in such a murmur of applause that the
judge threatened to clear the court if it was
not instantly suppressed. And then came that
tinge of bitterness for Mr. Usher which the
Roman poet tells us lurked at the bottom of

all fountains of perennial bliss, that surgit
mari aliquid, as Sir Horace endeavoured to
draw from him his theory of John Fossdyke
and James Foxborough being one and the
same person. Nobody knew better than the
accomplished counsel the risk of endeavouring
to prove too much ; nobody could be more
morally convinced that this story was true
than he was, and also of the great difficulty of
demonstrating it legally ; but the fact had
been introduced into the case, and was not
now to be passed over. Now, like everybody
else in the case on this point. Sergeant Usher
was a worthless witness. He had never seen
John Fossdyke till he saw him lying dead in
the Hoping at Bunbury, while he had never
seen James Foxborough at all. He tried to
insinuate some of the evidence he had collected
on this point, but it was not likely that an old
hand like Mr. Boston would allow that, and
after Mr. Usher had left the box that eminent
counsel felt quite assured the identity of the

two men would never Le established legally in
that trial. That it was so in reality he had no
more doubt than his opponents, but it was
most decidedly against his client's interest to
admit it.

Ellen Maitland followed, and again gave
evidence as to the dao^aer having; been the
property of her master Mr. Foxborough ; had
missed it, but could scarcely say how long
before the Id quest at Bunbury. Knew Mr.
Cudemore as a friend of her master's. He
might certainly have had the opportunity of
taking the dagger in question, but could not
say for one moment that he did so.

And then came the medical testimony. An
admirable witness was Dr. Inolebv, clear and
terse, but strongly of opinion that the wound
which caused John Fossdyke's death was not
self-inflicted. His college-ue wobbled, and
eventually may be said to have gone all to
pieces in the hands of Mr. Trail.

Sir Horace Silverton addressed the court

VOL. III. S

with all that practised fluency that had done
so much to make his reputation. Glossing
over the double identity business as a thing
which, though admitting of no moral doubt,
he confessed to the prosecution having failed
legally to establish, he pointed out how little
the guilt of the prisoner depended on that.
Did Cudemore write that note ? Was Cude-
more the man at the Hoping who entertained
John Fossdyke ? And was the key found in
the drawer of Cudemore's dressing-table, the
key of the room in which John Fossdyke died ?
Surely on these three points the jury could
have no doubt. The theory of the defence
was the dead man committed suicide, but the
story of the key negatived that. He would
simply submit this case to them : Did not
the prisoner induce the late John Fossdyke
to dine with him under a false pretence for
some hidden purposes of his own ? Did not
Fossdyke meet with his death on that occasion,
and did not the prisoner Cudemore never come

forward about the affair till brought before
them by the police. They had listened to
the evidence of Sergeant Usher, and if after
that they did not feel it their duty to return
a verdict of "Wilful Murder" against the
prisoner, he should feel more surprised and
pleased than he ever felt in his whole professional
career.

And then, after a two hours' speech. Sir
Horace resumed his seat.

The summing up of the Judge was both
lucid and exhaustive, but it was too close a
repetition of Sir Horace Silverton's argument
to admit of introduction into these pages, and
when the jury withdrew it was felt that the
sole chance for the prisoner was that they
might possibly arrive at the conclusion the
dead man died by his own hand, and yet in
the face of that evidence concerning the key
it seemed a decision hard to come to.

Ten, twenty, forty minutes passed ; it was
close upon the hour when the jury once more

S 2

trooped into their box, and the Foreman in
low tones delivered a verdict of *' Wilful
Murder " against the prisoner.

Brief and solemn was the Judge's address?,
but it concluded with his assumption of the
black cap, and that short, terribly plain announcement
concluding with " God Almighty
have mercy upon your soul," which nobody
that has once heard it can ever dorset.

CHAPTER XVI.

cqdemoee's confession.
It has occurred to many of us to carry our
lives in our hands at times. In the savage
surges of the Mid-atlantic. In the fierce
tempestuous storms that rage round either of
the famous Capes — those southern extremities
of Africa and America, where winds and waves
seem never at rest. In the treacherous shoals
of the James and Mary, where the Woodley
and the Ganges join hands, and combine in the
sinking of ships. In the petty skirmishes of
Alma, of Inkerman, Balaclava, and the storming
of Lucknow which preceded that terrible
twenty-five days' campaign in Egypt, culminating
in that awful twenty-five minutes' action

at Tel-el-Kebir. If it is given to statues to
smile, and after the late wearisome trial who
shall say that " artistic grace " is denied them,
*' the Iron Duke's " effigy at Hyde Park Corner
must have been a study that day when the
Egyptian heroes strode past him and he recalled
the memories of Talavera, Ciudad
Rodrigo, Badajoz, and Waterloo.

But to be told you are to die a dog's death
in the grim grey of the morning, that you are
to suffer that excessively brutal extinction
peculiar only to the fierce Anglo-saxon race,
who, under the pseudonym of justice, put
their fellow-creatures to death in the most
degrading fashion it is possible for human
beings to compass ; well, that is ugly to think
upon. Cudemore was no coward, but it is
easy to imagine a shudder running through a
strong man's veins at the prospect of terminating
his existence in such miserable fashion.
The crucifixion of the Romans might be more
cruel, but it was infinitely less debasing.

With all our bra^r about civilization, who can
say that the Greeks, with a bowl of hemlock,
were not infinitely before us in this respect.

Still Ralph Cudemore is condemned to die,
and though the public have great doubts
about that sentence being carried out in its
integrity, and even the prisoner himself has
received a hint that from what transpired on
the trial the making of a clean breast of it
would probably tend very much to his advantage,
yet he has so far not spoken. Mr.
Eoyston, indeed, has exerted himself on all
sides to obtain commutation of the sentence,
and risky though it may be, he believes if
Cudemore could only be induced to speak
there will be no chance of the extreme penalty
being resorted to. Sir Horace Silverton and
the counsel for the Crown are of the like way
of thinking ; in short, the motive for the deliberate
murder is palpably wanting, whilst
it is so easy to show cause why it should never
have come to pass.

And the sole man with a faint dim perception
of the truth is Mr. Sturton. Very vague
indeed even is his theory concerning it, but it
has mistily crossed his brain that the moneylender's
love for Foxborough's (now pretty
conclusively proved to be Fossdyke's) daughter
might have had a good deal to say to it, while
in the seclusion of his cell Ralph Cudemore
occasionally smiled triumphantly as he thought
of that afternoon at Tap ton Cottage when he
had caught Nid Foxboroiigh in his arms and
snatched half a score of kisses from her lips in
the frenzy of his lustful love. He would muse
over this till it maddened him and seemed
utterly regardless of the position in which he
stood ; the nearer approach of that grim grey
morning; which was to clive his throat to the
rope, and his last gasp to this world, troubled
him no iota ; that he could not possibly take
Nid with him no doubt did. He could not
have expressed it, but he felt like the savage
hero of Swinburne's Les Noyades.

For never a man being mean like me,

Shall die like me till the whole world dies.
I shall drown with her laughing for love, and she
Mix with me, touching me lips and eyes."

Like the rude peasant who met this doom on
the Loire bound hand and foot to the dainty
aristocrat idol of his distant idolatry, when
savage Carrier daily published the banns for
what he termed " Republican marriages,"
Cudemore could have died with a laugh
on his lips, providing Nid Foxborough was
locked in his arms. It was well for Nid
that he was laid by the heels in prison, for
when a man contracts such fierce love fora
woman he is capable of almost any crime
to gratify his passion. He sullenly rejected
all consolation from the chaplain, saying with
a bitter sneer that if a man didn't know how
to die without priestly teaching, he was either
fool or coward. But one morning he suddenly
expressed a wish to see the Governor
and Sergeant Usher, " the man who," as he
said, " had tracked him to the grave." If

the expression was not exactly correct the
authorities quite understood ^Yhat he meant ;
the great detective had brought a good many
men in his time to that leap into eternity
which few face in the grey of the morning
without a shiver.

The Governor of the gaol arrived, bringing
Mr. Usher with him, and commenced explaining
that he, Cudemore, must build no hopes
of a remission of his sentence on whatever
he might be about to confess.

Hopes," rejoined the prisoner ironically ;
no, if I had any hope left I shouldn't
come whining to you for my life, and it's not
for that. I've sent for you to tell you how
the whole thing came about. The Sergeant
there is the first man that's bested me since
I was twenty. He's the only man in England,
I believe, that could ever have solved
my riddle. He's not done it spite, but he's
Quot so near that I am o-oing; to tell him
the true story. I thought you might like to

write it down, you know, and so asked you
to hear it too. How he " — and here by a
gesture Cudemore indicated the Sergeant —
"got the clue to Fossdyke and Foxborough
being the same man of course I don't know.
I believed it a things known only to myself,
and as he rightly conjectured, it only came
to my knowledge by the sweetest of accidents
at the opening of the Marlborough Theatre.
Now don't ask questions, Mr. Usher,
because I'm o-oino- to tell you all you want
to know. What took me to Baumborouo-h ?
A combination of business and bad luck, for
which I am about to pay the penalty. Pooh I
a bad night at baccarat has put men cjuite
as much out of their world as a bad night's
luck is about to put me. I came down to
Bunbury to look after James Foxborough.
He had borrowed, as you know, six thousand
pounds of me and my friends, and I was
mighty curious to know what the speculation
was that he meant to put it into.

Yes, Mr. Usher, 'you're quite right," said
the money-lender, in reply to the detective's
inquiring look, " I undoubtedly meant to
force my finger into the pie if I could and
thought it worth my while. And a new
theatre was an affair I was sure to look at,
and without a thought of James Foxborough
I ran over for the evening to see it. With
what results you know. It killed him, and is
about to kill me.

Now I didn't even know Foxborough's
whereabouts. It was a mere accident — life's
a succession of them — which led me to look
for him down in these parts. But when I
discovered the secret I knew exactly I thought
the price it would cost him to silence my
tongue, and but for his terrible irritation
and dismay at my discovery, I still think
things might have gone right. He lost his
temper, a stupid thing to do, and both our
lives, as it turned out. Am I penitent ? "
Cudemore continued, turning sharply to the

Governor, "not a bit; if I'd to play the
cards over ag-ain I don't think I'd chancre
my lead."

You haven't mentioned the stakes," observed
Mr. Usher, sententiously.

No, you'll perhaps hardly understand
quite how high they were," rejoined Cude-
more, slowly. " I wanted to marry his
daughter."

Good lord ! " exclaimed the Sergeant ;
what, that pretty girl mixed up in the
game ? Well, I'm cornered this time. If
her sweet face was in it I'm surprised at
nothing you've got to say."

Was in it ? " retorted the prisoner, fiercely.
Is in it ? you may ask at this moment. If
I didn't know I'd irretrievably lost her, I'd
fight for my life this minute. You, of course,
don't understand such things," continued
Cudemore, with a contemptuous wave of
his hand to the Governor ; " but you do,
Sergeant. In the course of your experience

you've met men who could sell their soul
for a woman's love, or the possession of the
woman they do love. To have called Nid
Foxborough my wife I think there's mighty
little in this world I'd have flinched at.
Murder ! I'd have walked over six men's
graves providing they led her and me to
the altar. Foxborough and I had quarrelled
about this very subject before. I could have
taken care of the girl as a lady, and was
good enough mate for her, I thought, but
he wouldn't give her to me. Can you be
surprised that when I found I held all the
trumps I put the screw on ? My note ! I
forgive Sturton, poor weak fool ; once you'd
got the clue, which you did through that
young brute Morantt, there were clouds of
witnesses to identify my handwriting. Of
course, I told Foxborough I knew the secret
of his life. Foxborough knew perfectly well
that when I asked him to dinner it was
simply to arrange at what price my tongue

could be stilled. I named it, and again we
had angry words on the subject. But we
stood on a different footing this time. It
was for me to dictate, for him to submit,
and he had the wit to see it could not be
my interest to expose him. Of course it
was not. I could make nothing out of
showing him up to the public, but a dead
hold over a man is always worth having,
eh, Mr. Usher ? let him be the poorest
pauper that ever crawled. You can use a
poverty-stricken wretch, if you've got him
in irons in this fashion, at times to advantage.
Well, as I said, we quarrelled and
parted over it. He wouldn't give me Nid,
and I would take nothing less. He went off
to his room furious but frightened. Though
he knew it could not be in my interest to
expose him, he lacked the sense to stand by
that knowledge. He wouldn't give in, but
he was so obviously upset by the discovery
of his secret that I thought I could carry

my point, and that my best chance Alas before
he could pull himself together. I went
to his chamber after we had parted in the
sittings-room and recommenced the armament.
We had drunk a food bit of wine and he
got furious, and at last, saying he would kick
a scoundrel like me out of the house, advanced
in most threatening manner towards me. No,
Mr. Usher, I'm not particular, and I'm no
coward, but I do know when IVe the worst
of the weights, and I'm not keen about being;
kicked ; for the matter of that never knew but
one low class attorney that was ; but when
Foxborough or Fossdyke ' went for me ' I
had to meet a bigger man than myself. That
cursed dagger lay on the table. He had put
it in his bag, no doubt, as a paper knife ; I
snatched it up instinctively to defend myself,
and when that brief two minutes' struo^orle was
over John Fossdyke lay dead at my feet.
Whether he ran on the dagger — I think and
hope he did — or whether I struck at him

with it I can't say, but it don't matter much
now to either of us. He's dead, and I soon
shall be. That, Mr. Usher, is the true solution
of the riddle you have spent such time and
patience over, and solved near enough to hang
a man."

"Most folks," remarked Mr. Usher gravely
as Cudemore paused, " think a man with the
grave gaping ready for him can't lie. I know
better, but I ain't, take it all round, a bad
judge of truth when I hear it, and it's truth,
sir, he's telling us now ; " and as he spoke
the Sergeant glanced sharply towards the
Governor, who was rapidly committing the
prisoner's confession to paper previous to
reading it over to him.

Shake hands," cried the prisoner warmly,
you've tracked me to the gallows, but you
recognize that I'm a man, Usher. You see
that I'm no more afraid to die for mad love
of a woman than scores of others have been
before me. Once more I say, Foxborough

YOL. 111. T

met his death at my hands as I tell you,
and by accident, though I would have killed
him, or half a dozen more, if I had thought
it would get me Nid for a wife. To lock
the door, return to town according to my
original intention, and rely upon my assumed
name to avoid detection, was so obviously
what appeared to be my game, that I should
accept it can surprise no one. If it hadn't
been for the fluke of you're finding that
scrap of paper, Mr. Usher, I should be at
large this moment, and you would be still
hunting; for James Foxborouo'h. If either of
you know the game of poker you will understand
what it is to have four aces in your
hand, and be beat by a flush sequence. That's
my case, the aces would be good enough to
back for fifty years, but there is just that one
ofi" chance, they may be rolled over. There
I've said my say, and open my mouth no
more ; ask the Governor there next month
whether I died with my heart in my mouth.

or as a man who dared to play dice with
the devil for a woman and lost should."

You'd die game enough' whispered the
detective, as he gripped Cudemore's hand,
but it isn't likely to come to that. I'd to
run you down, mind, as a matter of business ;
but I'm just as sorry, now it's over, as any
of the swells down Melton way are at the
death of a stout fox." And with that comforting
assurance Mr. Usher followed the
Governor out of the cell.

*****

The play is' over, the curtain and the lights
are down, and the audience are seeking cabs
and carriages, omnibuses and overcoats, and
it is perhaps well for him that the author
cannot respond to "a call." We have all
heard of Artemis Ward's artist that painted
the famous picture of his show. How the
New York public couldn't rest till they saw
him, and how when they did, t/te^ hove chairs
at him'' and that fate awaits author, artist,

T 2

and dramatist at times, though they may
give the best that is in them. If hard it is
righteous ; we gamble for public approbation,
and it is childish to whimper because one
casts " the dog's throw " occasionally.

What more am I to tell you ? that
Cudem ore's confession, under Mr. Boston's
skilful manipulation, resulted in the extreme
penalty being commuted to some seven years'
penal servitude you have already settled
for yourselves ; that Morantt, under steady
Phil Soames's guidance, became a prosperous
brewer in Marlborough you can also
easily imagine ; while that the steeple chimes
of the old church rung out blithely for a
double wedding some few months after Cude-
more's trial is superfluous to mention. That
Marlborough should be much divided over
which was the prettiest of those two brides
is a question Marlborough will probably
wrangle over till sweet Bessie Hyde and
coquettish little Nid are laid — and long may

it be hence — in their graves. You may think
these people don't exist, ladies and gentlemen.
I can only say for the last six months they
have been terribly alive to me, very much
more so than they will probably ever be to
you. How Mr. Totterdell became an " Ancient
Mariner," whose crooked forefinger was dreaded
as that of him who slew the albatross, can be
also easily conjectured. He was the terror of
Baumborougli for some few years, although his
particular views of the famous trial were never
exactly ascertained.

T\vo women there were to whom this
was an infinitely sad and sorrowful story,
and these were the two wives of the dead
duplicate man. To keep the truth from either
of them was impossible, but from the day
she learnt it, to her death, the name of her
husband never passed Mrs. Fossdyke's lips.
She knew, poor thing, that she had never
been his wife, and that to a woman means
mini. With proud Mrs. Foxborough it was

different ; there was no dou])t about her
wedding-ring nor marriage certificate. She
managed the Syringa for many a year after
Nid had left Tapton Cottage, and successfully,
too. Like most histrionic stars, she had
no wish to retire. She visited her daughters
at Baumborous^h now and a^rain, and was
made much of by each, but she and — well —
Mrs. Fossdyke never were allowed to meet.

THE END.

BLNGAY: Claw AND Taylor, Printers. 5. tk H.


3 0112 042045424
