MM

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
Of ILLINOIS

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/tietrickmelodram01smar

^t- ~*

<Zr

^~

te

TIE AND TRICK

% tftdotaniatic $tong.

BY

HARTLEY SMART,

AUTHOR OF " Breeze LANGTON," " THE GREAT TONTINE," " AT FAULT,'
•' FROM POST TO FINISH," ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. I.

LONDON— CHAPMAN and HALL

LIMITED.

1885.
[All Rights Reserved.]

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS.

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

CONTENTS.

V

CHAPTER I.

CROSSING THE STRAITS.

A cross chopping sea and a fresh sours
sweeping boisterously up Channel, a
day to make a bad sailor shiver and be profoundly
thankful that necessity did not
compel him to cross " the Straits." The
Calais boat bobs like a cork as it ploughs its
way across the capricious, irritable bit of
water that lies between it and Dover. A
grey November day, presaging that winter
is at hand, and conveying grim warning

VOL. I. B

that another year is near struck from the
brief span of our lives ; by no means an
inspiriting day for a man to look out upon
who is conscious of misused opportunities,
and that he has been wasting much money
on his autumn holiday ; moodily reflecting,
too, that long suffering creditors in a few
weeks will again anxiously clamour for
settlement of their accounts.

A tall soldier-like fellow is Fred hamilton
as he stands, enveloped in a huge ulster,
leaning against the lee side of the entrance
to the saloon stairs, and painfully conscious
that he has spent the last two months in a
most unprofitable fashion. It is not that be
has any remorse, far from it ; nothing but
an angry feeling of disappointment pervades
his mind. He is simply a gambler returning
from an unsuccessful campaign. Commencing
life in a cavalry regiment, and with
a thousand or twelve hundred a year of his
own, Hamilton had about as pleasant a
start in life as any young fellow of good

family need wish for; but he was cursed
with extravagant desires and a spirit of
self-indulgence. When you deny yourself
nothing it is possible to prove the insufficiency
of any moderate income, and Fred
Hamilton had for the last few years leda
somewhat hand-monmouth existence.

Your country gives us a grim greeting,
my friend," growled his companion in
English, which, though excellent, had a
slightly foreign accent. " It is most detestable
cold for the time of wear. I hate your
sea, too ; I never want to smoke when I
am at sea — a sure sis. it disagrees with

L 3 J

Yes, I suppose it does, though you're
not a bad sailor ; but when you can't face
your cigarette, Count, there's certainly
something amiss with you."

u It's a good many years since I was in
London," rejoined the Count, musingly;
and then, ma foi, it was about the only
place in Europe good for my health."
b 2

Hamilton looked hard at his companion,
a slight, dark, wiry man, of medium
height, whose usually well waxed moustache
was now unmistakably out of curl. Count
Patroceni was rather a mystery. He was
rumoured to be an Italian of good family,
who had been engaged in every revolutionary
movement on the Continent almost from
his boyhood. He was said to have had
marvellous escapes from the dungeons of
the Bourbons, and even from the executioner's
hands; but nobody could put all
the shadowy gossip concerning him into
circumstantial shape, and the Count was
va£?ue in the extreme about his earlier
adventures. At present he was known asa
man of gentlemanly address, much
addicted to play, and mingling freely in a
certain class of society. He had a large
and numerous, if not very select, circle of
acquaintance, but still it was never hinted
that Patroceni was an adventurer. If he
gambled there was no insinuation that he

was amongst the wolves of the play-table,
keenly alive to fattening on the insular
lambkin. He had, apparently, plenty of
money, and displayed unmistakable ability
to take care of it, but no undue desire to
possess himself of that of his neighbour.
In short, if he played it was apparently as
an amusement and not from greed of gain.
Hamilton had met him once or twice
before on his visits to the Continent, and
this time it had ended in Patroceni accompanying
him back to London.

Well, we shall cut our stay in town
short. It might be good for your health
last time you were there, but it's not a nice
place this sort of weather. You told me
you shoot ; you must come down and try
your hand at the Wrottsley pheasants. My
uncle will be delighted to see you."

Let us hope so. I have clone plenty of
shooting in my own country, but we are
near our deliverance," and as he spoke the
packet glided under the lee of the Admiralty

Pier art Dover, and speedily commenced the
discharge of its small freight of miserable
humanity. Green and pallid, these struggled
into the train, only too thankful not to be
called upon to wrestle with the Customs'
officials after the manner of former times,
and buried their woes in the recesses of the
railway carriages. Our travellers took
advantage of the slight halt at the Dover
Station to dash across at Hanger ton's suggestion
to the buffet, and there pull themselves
together with a tolerably stiff dose of
brandy and seltzer — it is only the young
and uninstructed that drink soda, and so
much were the pair rehabilitated by this
simple and favourite remedy that the
habitual cigar adorned their lips as the
engine gave forth its final warning shriek
of departure.

What motive had induced Patroceni to
volunteer to accompany him to England
was far beyond Hamilton's conjecture.
The Count had merely said it was his whim

to once more visit London, and had simply
asked to be allowed to travel with him and
profit by his superior knowledge of the city
in regard to lodgings, hotels, or what not,
and perhaps his clear friend knew one of the
more liberal-minded clubs to which it was
possible to introduce a foreigner, who, as he
(Hamilton) could testify, had received
admission to the circles of Homburg, Nice,
&c. People who knew the Count thoroughly,
and they were few, would have told you
very little of his life was uncalculatecl.
What his motive might be was ever a problem
difficult of solution, but he was distinctly
not given to whims in the ordinary
acceptance of the term. Hamilton, a
tolerably easy-going man, was under two
obligations to the Count : one, that of some
slight pecuniary assistance ; of the other,
more anon. Hamilton smoked on in
meditative silence. Both men were absorbed
in their own thoughts and keen enjoyment
of the tobacco winch that malicious sours

had so long prohibited, to say nothing
that not having the carriage to themselves,
barred confidential conversation had they
desired it. Hamilton — who had sometime
back found the duties of a profession,
for which he had never felt any great
enthusiasm, too irksome for his pleasure -
loving disposition, was revolving in his
mind that the time had at length arrived
when the playing of what he had always
considered his last card could no longer be
delayed. His cousin, Maude Eversley, was
a very pretty girl, with thirty thousand
pounds of her own, the fortune of her dead
mother, which she came into positively
when she came of age. Red Hamilton
had known her from her childhood, and had
long ago settled that she would make him
an excellent wife when circumstances made
it expedient that he should settle down,
and Red felt that circumstances had made
it of late not only expedient but imperative
that he should at all events settle.

He was not in love with his cousin, but
they had always been capital friends, and
he undoubtedly liked no other woman
better. To people unaware of Fred hamilton's
disposition and pursuits the engagement
would appear suitable enough.
The young lady was in her twenty-first year,
the gentleman some nine or ten years older,
while the world generally could form uo
idea that Hamilton had run through the
best part of his means and was a sorely-needy
man. His mode of life gave no
indication that he was in difficulties. Men
of his stamp never draw in their horns till
the crash comes ; they neither attempt nor
affect the economies, whether it be in the
matter of clothes, carriages, cigars, dry
champagne, or expenditure. In the use of
ready money only are they wont to be
reticent, reserving that strictly to meet such
expenses as cannot possibly be relegated to
the ledger.

Fred Hamilton had found himself an

orphan early in life, with his uncle Sir
Jasper Eversley as his guardian, and Wrotts-
ley Hall had been the home of his boyhood.
There he had passed his holidays as a schoolboy,
there he had passed much of his leave
in the days of his military life, and there
his room and a hearty welcome remained to
him still. He was a great favourite with
the baronet, who did not heed vague rumours
that sometimes reached him, to the
effect that his nephew was in with a very
fast set, most of whom were likely to come
to infinite grief if they did not moderate the
pace at which they were living. Fred was
a good all-round sportsman, a fairly goodman
either to hounds or with his gun, and
those were virtues that stood high in Sir
Jasper's estimation. What matter if his
nephew was a little wild ; all young fellows
with any spirit in them sowed their wild
oats and were none the worse for it when
they settled down; and the baronet chuckled
with the remembrance that he, too, had

heard the chimes by midnight," and drank
and gambled a great deal more than was
good for him, in the days when William IV.
was king. Sir Jasper had not married till
verging upon the forties, and it had been a
matter of deep disappointment that no successor
to Wrottsley had been born to him ;
but his wife, to whom he was devotedly
attached, presented him with only one child,
albeit they passed some fourteen or fifteen
happy years together. The lawyers in their
wisdom had settled Lady Eversley's thirty
thousand pounds on her for her life, and at
her death to be divided between her children.
All, of course, now centred in Maude.
As for Wrottsley, it was mostly entailed, and
would pass at Sir Jasper's death to his
younger brother, a clergyman holding a
comfortable living in a distant county.

Fred Hamilton knew from many a talk
with Sir Jasper that his uncle, although
the subject was never openly broached between
them, would be well satisfied should

he win Maud for his wife, and make Wrotts-
ley their home as long as Sir Jasper lived;
and this, Fred Hamilton, in the plenitude
of his conceit and selfishness, thought
w r ould do very nicely when it should suit
his highness to relinquish his liberty.

Patroceni could hardly have explained his
motive in accompanying Hamilton to
England even if he would. It amounted
simply to this : he had obtained a hold over
a man of birth and position, and it was a
maxim of the Count's, whenever that happened,
it was worth while to see what use
you could make of him. It might be none,
but it was very rarely that he did not exacta
quid pro quo, or, to use his own expression,
find music for them to dance to. The
Continent was getting a little dull, he
thought, except perhaps Paris. It would
be as well to accompany Hamilton to his
own country, to see him amongst his own
friends and acquaintance, and then he
would be better able to judge what capabilities

of usefulness his dear friend possessed.
The Captain could, at all events, introduce
him to English society to some extent, a
privilege which he had not achieved upon
his former visit, and he had much curiosity
to mix in that London world, of whose
wealth and luxury he had heard so much.
Perhaps he might win the heart of some
blonde English Madam or Miss, and a
cynical smile curled Patroceni's mouth as
the thought crossed his mind ; for, though
his manners were soft and polished enough,
the boudoir had figured little midst the
scenes in which his life had been chiefly
passed, and love-tales received scant telling
from his lips. Singing of bullet and ringing
of sabre had been more familiar to his ears
than the soft accents of a woman's voice.
He was more at home in the fierce battle of
the card-table than in the wiles and manoeuvres
of the salon, and yet the man's keen,
subtle intelligence and vast experience of
life were calculated to enable him to hold

his own in the latter with the most veteran
intriguer.

On arrival in London the pair drove
straight to Hanimertou's chambers, a luxurious
set of rooms which quite admitted
of entertaining a guest, and where it had
been settled the Count should instal himself
for a few days while he looked round
for suitable accommodation for himself.
Already his host wondered ruefully why
he had asked him, and pondered somewhat
moodily over the rash promises he had
made to introduce him to society and clubs
when at Homburg. He was, as before said,
under an obligation to him then, and like
most men at such times somewhat profuse
in gratitude. The promise of these introductions
had seemed at the moment to mean
nothing, but he had been made to understand
lately that they did not admit of retractation,
and somehow it did not all seem
quite so easy as it did at Homburg. He
had been told that the Count was a man

of good Italian family, he had seen that
Patroceni enjoyed the entree of the hest —
albeit somewhat hybrid — society of some
three or four Continental watering-places.
But then, Hamilton was quite aware
London demanded rather more than this
before it admitted the stranger within its
pale. Ah, well, this is all rapidly changing,
the cordon gets looser year by year, the
Paris who fretted at the gates at the date
of my story are in the midst of the whirlpool
now, and some years hence there will
probably be but little embargo laid on those
able to pay for it — a mere question of
whether you are rich enough to know. All
this troubled Hamilton not a little;
clearly the first thing to be done was to
write to his uncle and tell him that he
proposed coming down immediately to help
shoot the covers, and ask if he might bring
a friend with him, a foreign nobleman, who
had shown him great courtesy during his
trip abroad. There was no difficulty about

this. He knew well what Sir Jaspers
answer would be. — " Corne by all means,
my dear Fred, only too glad to see you;
and any friend of yours is, as you know,
heartily welcome;" and yet Hamilton felt
a strange disinclination to introduce this
man under his uncle's roof. He could not
account for it ; it was nothing more than a
hazy, undefined idea that it was not right
to bring to Wrottsley any one of whose
antecedents he really knew next to nothing.
He had no reason to suppose the Count
anything but what he represented himself.
Patroceni had certainly been very kind to
him, and he had no reason to doubt him ;
but he certainly did wish he had not promised
this thing, and he was puzzled to
think how he had come to do it. Puzzled,
forsooth ! it was the soft, malleable mind
pitted against the astute brain and will of
iron. The ordinary hand grasping the velvet
glove and grip of steel. Prom the time he -
swallowed that bait of assistance, the jaws

of the rat-trap had snapped upon horn little
as he wotted of it. However, there was no
need to trouble himself about that just now.
During the couple of days that would intervene
before Sir Jasper's answer could arrive
it would be quite sufficient to dine Patroceni
at one of his clubs, take him to a theatre,
and perhaps introduce him to a few men in
the smoking-room. All this commits one
to very little ; these club smoking-rooms
see queer guests at times, men who may be
voted very amusing to smoke a cigar with
now and again, but men whom the members
have not the slightest disposition to see
enrolled amongst themselves.

(C Now, Count, that we have shaken the
dust of travel from our persons," said Fred,
as he entered the sitting-room " the next
thing is evidently to wash the raw sea-air
from our throats, and to recuperate ourselves
for the abstinence that abominable crossing
usually inflicts. They cook decently at the
Harlequin, and their champagne is unim-

vol. i. c

peaceable, but they're a volatile body and
apt to be a little boisterous. At the Blenheim
we have even better cookery, their claret
is commendable, and the quietude almost
depressing. Which shall it be ? "

"At best your climate is depressing
enough. Let it be the Harlequin, with
light, life, and champagne," rejoined the
Count, promptly.

CHAPTER II.

WROTTSLEY.

The breakfast hour at Wrottsley was an
expansive ten for the community at large,
although those intending to hunt or shoot
had to be up betimes, and had disappeared
before the majority of the ladies, at all
events, gathered in the dining-room. A
large, low, one-storied house, with a porte
cohere entering upon a double hall in
its centre — the outer and smaller hall was
decorated with many a "head," trophies
of the prowess of Sir Jasper in Scotch deer-forests
in his younger days, and divers other
victims of his bow and spear in the guise of
c2

fox-brushes, stuffed birds, &c, and was also
strewn with the litter of rough overcoats,
hats, caps, and walking-sticks, that the hall
of all country houses presents. The inner
was very lofty, with a gallery running all
round it, and exhibited nothing but its dark-polished
oak boards. From this hall doors
opened in all directions: on the ground floor
to the drawing-rooms, billiard-room, diningroom,
&c. ; on the gallery to the bed-rooms,
lying on either side. In short, the halls
formed the centre of the house, while the
rooms lay in the wings on either hand.

It was of no great antiquity, but all the
more comfortable for not dating further
back than the commencement of the century.
The apartments were lofty and
spacious both above and below; the inner
hall, too, was just the thing for an impromptu
dance, or for battledore on a wet
day. The park, though not very large, was
the very place to haze in summer, when the
weather was behaving properly : in short,

altogether, Wrottsley 1 afforded the beau ideal
of country life, tolerably good hunting and
shooting, a well-peopled, pleasant neighbourhood,
and a courteous, high-bred host.
But the glory of Wrottsley was its shrubberies.
Shut off by a rabbit-proof wire fence
from the garden, the masses of laurels, rhododendrons,
azaleas, &c, are thickly populated
with game. In the later spring-time,
the broad green rides — walks imperfectly
describe these fine velvety grass roads —
are alive with pheasants, whose burnished
plumage glitters in the sunlight; the rabbits
skip about in that frivolous, volatile fashion
to which their race seem incurably addicted,
sitting up on their hind legs washing their
faces, turning somersaults in their lightheadedness,
pricking their ears in mock
apprehension of lurking danger, and finally
scuttling off in that state of fuss and bustle
that seems to be their normal condition.
Anon, a big hare comes sobbing down the
ride with long, stealthy strides, gravely

intent upon his own immediate business, —
probably on this occasion the getting of his
dinner ; while the dying rays of the setting
lord of day light up a sea of brilliant colour
in the shrubberies, now glorious in the fulness
of their bloom. Eut it is a very
different scene that greets the sight this
mild, muggy November morning ; the trees
are all bare ; the flower-garden, instead of a
many-hued kaleidoscope, but a cemetery of
nameless , graves, as the dug-up beds always
appear to one in winter : the pale, wintry
sun is so far unsuccessful in his efforts to
struggle through the mist ; and the rabbits
and hares seem to think it no time of year
to be about in — a circumstance which the
merciless thinning they were subjected to,
according to annual custom, some two or
three weeks back, perhaps a little contributes.


Standing on the terrace looking up the
shrubberies, in earnest converse with a
stout, thickset man, whose velveteen and

broad corded breeches and gaiters proclaim
him a gamekeeper of the old school, is a
tall, slight, well-built gentleman, with aquiline
nose and clear grey eyes, who, in spite
of grizzled hair and slightly furrowed brow,
shows as yet no sign of decay. Just past
the middle of his fifth decade, Sir Jasper's
figure is 'still upright as a dart ; and if not
quite so fast through the turnips in October
as he once was, nor quite so dashing a
rider to hounds as of yore, his nerve
is little impaired, and he is hard to beat
yet at either of his favourite pursuits.
If Sir Jasper passed the hot days of his
youth in all that wild pandemonium that
London life presented in the early days of
the century, when play, profligacy, hard-drinking,
cock-fighting, and the prize-ring
were the chief diversions of men of fashion,
yet he sickened betimes of the unhealthy
life, and betook himself to the purer pastimes
of the country. Gradually his visits
to the metropolis became fewer and shorter,

and amused him less. If his friends vote
Jasper Eversley grown bucolic, and wonder
if he calls those things boots, it is affectation
on their part, for Eversley is as full of
fun and spirits as ever he was, and he never
dreamt of forsaking Holy or having his
buckskins made out of London. It was the
era of top-boots and breeches, remember.
But with Sir Jasper it was otherwise : the
town tattle had lost its savour ; he detected
a recurrence of the old anecdotes that he
had laughed at years ago ; the hours were
too late for him ; he had forsworn play, and
the whole thing bored him, so that when he
married a pretty, thorough country girl, of
country tastes, and daughter of an excellent
county family, the metropolis saw but little
more of him. A few weeks about Epsom
and Ascot times amply sufficed for himself
and his wife : but even in his country attire,
in his ordinary shooting-jacket and round
hat, Sir Jasper always bore the unmistakable
caste of a London man.

Although attired in the roughest of shooting
suits he looks a gentleman every inch
of him, this November morning, as he
stands there discussing with Chatterson, his
head-keeper, the destruction of his remaining
pheasants, with a gravity worthy of the
solemnity of the occasion.

"We should have six guns hy rights.
The Captain's coming down, and brings a
foreign gentleman with him; that's two,
myself three, Mr. Glanfield will he four,
Mr. "Wheldrake, who I dare say will be
hack, fifth, and the sixth — but I must see
about the sixth."

"Excuse me, Sir Jasper, it'd do no harm
if you slipped in a seventh. There's no
depending on those surrenders ; they hit nothing
except what they ought not to. If
they kill a pheasant you can't find the
pieces ; they're bound to let off a woodcock,
but they're death ors foxes if they've a
chance."

Come, Chatterson, were never had a

foreigner here yet; what do you know
about it?"

Beg pardon, Sir Jasper. One knows a
many things one's never seen. I never see
a young cuckoo jerk the young hedge-sparrows
out of the nest, though I've seen a
young step-mother clear her step-daughters
off pretty quick. I'm told these surrenders
are wonderful inexperienced in the use of
firearms, as might be expected: they use
bows and arrows in their own country,
mostly, I daresay. Jeffries, Mr. Costello's
keeper, told me they'd a Marked there two
years ago whose bag consisted of a fox, a
boy, half a pheasant, and the fragments of a
rabbit. Jeffries declared he shot at everything,
and might have been credited with a
couple of cows, and a pig or two, if he
could have held straight."

Jeffries was yarning when he told you
that story. Anyway, you know my maxim.
I give my guests the best I can of everything,
and I can do no more. But a

sixth gun I must have, and whom to ask
I can't think."

"What do you say to Parson Pilcher ?
He can shoot he can, Sir Jasper," exclaimed
Chatterson, with all a keeper's enthusiasm
and appreciation of a good shot. " Put him
next that furrin gentleman and he'll have
most of his "birds in the bag before the furrin
gent's made up his mind to fire at 'em.
He's perhaps a beetle. just a leetle, jealous,
but he's a sweet shot is Mr. Pilcher — quick
as lightning and deadly as nightshade."

This was old Chatterson's mild appraisement
of the Rev. Bob Pilcher, as he was
usually somewhat irreverently called. One
of the quickest, straightest, and most jealous
shots in all England ; but a very keen sportsman
and a most liberal man in the matter
of fees, and thereby held in high esteem by
Chatterson and all his race.

Yes, I think he might do, Chatterson ;
I'll see about it. Meanwhile, remember
we'll shoot the Bankside Hangers the day

after tomorrow," and with this Sir Jasper
turned to go into the house and communicate
the advent of his nephew to his
daughter and the party generally, none of
whom had appeared when the baronet
finished his morning meal.

Yes, he's a bit jealous, Mr. Pilcher,
there's no denying," muttered old Chatter-son
as his master disappeared. " I mind
his blowing that rabbit to bits almost
between his toes last year sooner than
leave it to any one else."

Good morning, father," said a tall fair-haired
girl, who was dawdling over her
breakfast at the head of the table as the
baronet entered the dining-room. "Have
you any news for us this dull morning ? "

Yes; and tell us," exclaimed a plump,
vivacious brunette, about five-and-thirty,
what you propose for our amusement."

Mrs. Pullerton, the lady in question, was
the widow of Sir Jasper's younger brother,
and spent the greater part of her time at

Wrottsley. She was a great favourite both
with her brother-in-law and niece, to the
latter of whom she often officiated as
chaperon — a lady with plenty of life and
go in her, and gossip said quite prepared
to resume her chains should any eligible
candidate present himself.

Good morning to you all ! " exclaimed
Sir Jasper, as he gaily saluted the company.
News, Maudie," he continued, crossing to
his daughter, and kissing her. Ci I've great
news for you, child. Fred will be down tomorrow
to dinner."

No ; you don't say so," replied that
young lady. " I am glad. I haven't set
eyes on him for months, and he will have
to give strict account of such unpardonable
absence."

Fred never troubles his head about
his relations," said Mrs. Fullerton, tartly,
unless it quite suits him. I'm sure I
never can get him to dine with me in town
when I want him."

Fred Hamilton was not exactly the sort
of man to chaperon an aunt to ball or opera
from whom he had no expectations, pretty
though she might be.

"Well, Clara," said Sir Jasper, always
anxious to smooth over the perpetual bickering
between his nephew and sister-in-law,
a young man in London with anything
like a start must be a precious dull lot who
doesn't find his engagement-slate pretty
full. I know in my day, except by accident,
you weren't likely to catch me under a
fortnight."

"No, Jasper, and there were plenty of
young women no doubt who would have
thought the whole season not unprofitably
spent in catching you. Fred's a fool. I've
always thought so. A man of his age who
doesn't recognise the advantage of cultivating
an aunt in good London society
must necessarily be wanting in savoir
vivre."

Quite wrong about that," said Mr.

Glanfield, a man distinguished for the
curtness of his remarks, and who at that
moment was employed in devouring ham
in the same short jerky manner he delivered
his ideas. " Red Hamilton knows the
ropes as well as any one, and is not likely
to be blind to Mrs. Fullerton's charms or
social influence, but a man about town hasa
good deal to do in his way, though no
one could exactly define it as hard work,"

No," replied Sir Jasper, laughing, " and
yet hang me if the hardest work ever I did
wasn't the pursuit of pleasure in my early
manhood."

Yes, getting about is a deal of trouble
in these days ; people crowd so. Seem to
want to go everywhere."

"That surely doesn't affect you, Mr.
Glanfield," said Mrs. Pullerton. "Whenever
I meet you somebody or other's always
brought you."

Somebody's always kind to a poor waif
like me," rejoined Mr. Glanfield, contemplating

an egg sternly through his eyeglass
as if he suspected it of too great
antiquity.

By the way, Maudie, I forgot to say
there will be another room wanted," interposed
Sir Jasper. "Pred is bringing a
friend over with him, a Count Patroceni,
whom he picked up abroad."

Patroceni!" said Glanfield, meditatively.

Do you know him ? " inquired Mrs.
Pullerton.

No, no ; I certainly don't know him,
but it strikes me I've heard the name."

He's very likely been in the country
before," remarked the baronet. " Pred talks
of having promised him a day at the Wrotts-
ley pheasants, and foreigners don't take
much to that sort of thing unless they have
had a little training amongst us."

I have seen some of them shoot pretty
tidily," replied Glanfield. "Patroceni!
Patroceni ! where the deuce did I hear the
name?"

"Never mind," said Mrs. Fullerton, "let
us hope he will prove an acquisition.
Foreigners are always so lively. By the
way, I suppose he speaks English ? "

I don't think he would have fraternised
with Fred if he didn't," replied Maude,
laughing. " Foreign tongues Fred is not
very good at."

Do you think the Count can talk horse,
Mr. Glanfield ? " asked the widow, demurely.


Of course not ; foreigners never understand
anything about racing."

The pursuit of this pastime seemed to bethe
end of Mr. Glanfield's existence. It
was not that he was an inveterate gambler
far from it ; he was simply a passionate
lover of the turf, and never missed any of
the principal race-meetings. Such modest
wagering as he indulged in never caused
him a moment's uneasiness. But one
curious thing about him was that he never

VOL. I. D

could divest himself altogether of the taint
of the racecourse. His dress was quiet
enough, as also was his manner; hut he
could not keep the shibboleth of the betting-ring
and training-stables out of his ordinary
conversation. He and Mrs. Pullerton were
old friends, and the widow perpetually
twitted him on the subject, which he bore
with the imperturbable good humour that
formed one of his principal characteristics.

Nobody had ever seen Glanfield out of
temper, while there were several stories
afloat of his marvellous sang froid under
trying circumstances, as well as of his
eccentricities of expression. He had once
characterised a pretty girl whom he honestly
admired as " Good-looking, free from vice,
and quiet in crinoline." It was meant as a
high encomium, but the young lady was
quite indignant when it came round to her
ears, and only to be pacified by the
assurance that it was Jim Glanfield for

handsome, well-dressed, and good-tempered.
Still he was a popular man, with a large
and miscellaneous circle of acquaintances.

It was told of Glanfield also that in a
case of an alarm of fire at a theatre he rose
and cried in sonorous hut deliberate tones,
Pray keep your seats, ladies and gentlemen
; the carriages won't he round for half-an-hour."
When complimented on his
presence of mind afterwards he explained
that he meant the fire-engines, and muttered
something about " You know when a
woman gets her best frock on what a state
she gets in about a shower of rain. See
'em on an Ascot Cup Day when the weather
proves treacherous."

With Wheldrake also coming back to us
tomorrow we shall have the house full,
and be strong enough to shoot any of the
covers," remarked Sir Jasper, as the ladies
rose and dawdled out of the room in that
dilatory fashion people usually do leave the
breakfast tabled

2

What do you think of Mr. Wheldrake,
Maudie ? " inquired Mrs. Eullerton, as she
and her niece crossed the hall together.

6i I like him," replied the girl, frankly, as
the colour came slightly into her cheeks.
But why do you ask ? "

Because, my dear, I think he seems
disposed to do a good deal more than like
you. He strikes me as a very nice fellow,
and you may go further and fare worse."

My dear aunt, Mr. Whel drake has never
said a word of that kind."

Piddledee ! He may not have asked
you to he his wife as yet, but he has said a
good many words of that kind. He may not
have made up his mind to marry, hut don't
tell me he hasn't let you know he thinks
you very nice and admires you extremely.
Ah, you needn't speak. I can read that it
is so in your face."

You have no right to say such things,"
rejoined Maude, as she strove in vain to
control her tell-tale cheeks.

Nonsense, child, there's no harm in a
young man falling in love with a young
woman even if he don't mean to marry her ;
but in this case I prophesy the young
woman will have her fate in her own hands
before many days are over." And with a
saucy nod to her niece Mrs. Eullerton
entered the morning-room, and sitting at
the piano played softly the old air of
u Robert toi que fame"

Maude glanced at her aunt for a moment,
and then, with a menacing gesture of her
hand, left the room.

Of course she knew that Cyril Wheldrake
had paid her a great deal of attention ever
since she first met him at the Bottles
ball, about six weeks ago. They had stayed
in one or two country-houses together, and
Maude must have been very blind if she
had not observed that he lost no opportunity
of throwing himself in her way. He had sofar
succeeded in ingratiating himself with
Sir Jasper as to have obtained an invitation

to Wrottsley, from which he had just been
summoned on business to his own home
in an adjoining county for two or three
days.

Walking up and down the terrace, lost in
the enjoyment of his matutinal cigar, Mr.
Glanfield stopped suddenly, and, taking his
Cabala from his lips, ejaculated, for the
benefit of two or three inquiring blackbirds,
Patroceni ! by gad, that's the name of
the Italian I saw break the bank at Monaco
some five years ago."

CHAPTER III.

A RUBBER OE ECARTE.

Let me introduce you to Count Patroceni,
my dear Maude," said Hamilton, as the
two men, clad in the conventional sables,
entered the drawing-room just before dinner.

A gentleman who "

Has suffered for Italy," interposed
Patroceni, a little to his companion's astonishment,
who had intended terminating
his speech in a very different fashion. "Ah,
Mademoiselle, enjoying the blessings of a
constitutional government, you cannot realise
the miseries of people struggling against
the yoke of despotism."

Red Hamilton in the last few days
had been educated to some extent in his
friend's Protean nature, but it was with
no little amazement he saw him suddenly
assume the role of the exiled patriot.

There is no mistake about his command
of our tongue," thought Maude as she replied,
" We are very glad, Count, to welcome
you to Wrottsley, and shall do our best to
make it pleasant for you."

If a woman choose to exert herself in
that fashion," retorted the Count, with a
low bow, " she can make a paradise of a
sand-bank."

"My uncle, Sir Jasper, Count," said
Hamilton as the baronet entered the
room, his throat begirt with a high white
neckcloth, that recalled the old days of the
Regency, — such an one as was embalmed
in the old sporting joke of " twice round
and a distance." There was nothing stiff
about Sir Jasper in manner, but he adhered
to an old-fashioned style of dress which

suited his tall, slight, well-built figure marvellously
well.

Any friend of my nephew's, Count, is
welcome at Wrottsley for his sake," said
Sir Jasper, as he cordially shook hands.
Before you leave us no doubt we shall
welcome you for your own."

u You are too good, Sir Jasper," Patroceni
replied. iC I own honestly I have a great
desire for a glimpse of your country-house
life— your vie en chateau. I have been such
a puppet of fortune from my boyhood that
I have rarely seen it even in my own country.
Even my own place near Amalfi I have not
been at for five years. Hamilton has told
me you will show me a day's shooting."

You shall have a shy at one of my best
covers tomorrow, Count, and I can promise
a fair show of same."

You are very kind, Sir Jasper. Should
you ever visit Naples I shall beg you to come
and have a look at our woods. Stupid I'm
afraid you will find it after your English

shooting ; but there's the scenery, the blue
sky, the novelty, and the obligation you will
confer upon myself," and the Count concluded
his sentence with a slight bow.

Ah, Mr. Glanfield, these foreigners read
you all lessons on manners. You would
never have turned so neat a compliment as
that."

"Don't know, Mrs. Pullerton, what you
mean by a compliment; but I could have
said c Glad to see you if you come our way '
in about half the time, and with about half
the bow and scrape of Monsieur le Comte
Patroceni," rejoined Glanfield, snappishly.

It is sad to see how a sample of foreign
polish excites your insular prejudices," said
the widow, coquettishly.

Mr. Glanfield deigned no reply. He had
no belief in foreigners, and always dimly
associated their successes on the English
Turf with fraudulent practices. He had no
specific accusation to make, but held that
his country could not be beaten fairly on a

racecourse, a creed stoutly maintained by
our neighbours with regard to war. As
Frenchmen hint at trahison when the tricolour
succumbs on the battle-field, so Mr.
Glanfield questioned the fairness of their
victories at Epsom, Ascot, or Newmarket.
A man of this frame of mind was not likely
to welcome the alien with enthusiasm.

At this juncture the door suddenly opened,
and a good-looking young fellow made his
appearance.

Just saved it, Sir Jasper !" he exclaimed;
in time for dinner after all. I did most
of my dressing in the fly as I came from
the station. Chisel's suggestion; he's an
invaluable valet, and always boasts that he
will deliver me in time for anything somehow."


"Delighted to have you back again," said
the Baronet, as he shook hands heartily with
the new-comer. " I counted upon you to
help us to shoot the Bankside Hangers tomorrow."


I said I should be back to dinner today,
and Chisel felt his reputation was at
stake," rejoined the young man, laughing,
as he turned to greet the ladies.

"Ah, Captain Hamilton and Count
Patroceni, this is an unexpected pleasure.
I little thought, gentlemen, when I parted
from you so abruptly at Homburg, that we
should foregather at Wrottsley. Indeed,
I had not the honour of knowing Sir Jasper
at that time, nor the slightest idea, hamilton,
that you belonged to this part of the
country."

Yes, we were rather puzzled at your
precipitate retreat. You certainly couldn't
think you had fallen among thieves, for we
were the plundered."

Pore George, yes ! I was quite ashamed
to disappear with such well-lined pockets,
but I was called home very suddenly. Never
mind, Count, the revenge I promised I have
now the opportunity of giving, but I warn
you I was born under a lucky star."

I congratulate you, Mr. Wheldrake,"
said Patroceni, "it is better to be lucky
than wise. The wise invest, while the
lucky profit by their investments."

The announcement of dinner here put a
stop to the conversation. The party was
large, there being several of the neighbours
present, whom it is not worth while to
particularize as they play no part in this
history, but Fred Hamilton was not a
little disconcerted to note that Cyril Whelm
had secured a place next to Miss
Eversley, and was evidently upon very
good terms with that young lady. hamilton
regarded his fair cousin as his own
peculiar property; and had he not just made
up his mind to assume the fetters of matrimony
? Now an uneasy feeling came over
him that Cyril "Wheldrake might interfere
with this pet project of his, and the thought
shot through his brain that he had dallied
too long with his opportunities; that, instead
of clinching matters when he might, he had

permitted a competitor to take the field,
and as he ran over his adversary's cards he
was fain to confess Wheldrake held a very
strong hand against him. Young, good-looking,
and owner of a very nice property
in the adjoining county, Cyril Wheldrake
was a good match for any girl, and, though
Hamilton was not at all the man to
undervalue himself, yet, on the other hand,
he was not so foolish as to underrate his
adversary.

I had no idea you knew my cousin," said
Maude, when everybody was comfortably
settled in their places.

Well, I never met him till this year
at Homburg, and had no knowledge of his
relationship to yourself and Sir Jasper ;
didn't know indeed what part of England
he belonged to. He always spoke of himself
as a thorough Londoner."

So I suppose he is, but Wrottsley's
been his home for all that from his boyhood."


Very pretty place Homburg, but queer.
Have you ever been there, Miss Eversley ?
Everybody knows everybody, and everybody
plays more or less at some game of chance
or other. Respectable people who never
touch a card elsewhere can't resist having
a nutter on the colour at Homburg. Ita
tradition of the place. I dare say they'd
tell you the waters were no good to you
unless you took a little rouge et noir or
baccarat with them."

Eight, Mr. Wheldrake," chimed in the
Count, laughing, " and the card-table is
good for the patient like the waters in
strict moderation. The misfortune is people
can control themselves about the one and
not about the other. To play to amuse
oneself is good, soothing. To gamble, ah !
that is to contract the fever that kills."

Mr. Glanfield put up his glasses as he
listened to the Count's speech, and then,
as he thought over the utterances of the
man whom he had seen break the bank

at Monaco, muttered, " I have seen a man
give up drink, but I never saw a man give
up gambling while he'd a shilling left to
stake."

We did better by having a friendly
little game amongst ourselves at the club,
Count, than by playing at the public tables,
where the odds are avowedly against you,
though I am afraid some of you must have
thought me as bad as the tables. You
see," he continued, turning to Maude, " I
happened to be in a run of luck, and was,
fortunately for me, summoned home before
it had time to change."

Patroceni through dinner won golden
opinions from all around him, he was so
courteous and deferential in his demeanour,
although it soon became evident he was a
thoroughly well-informed man of the world.
Upon any general topic that cropped up
the Count soon made it apparent that he
was better informed than his neighbours,
and he managed to do this inoffensively, a

gift by no means common ; the generality
of mankind diffusing their superior knowledge,
to say nothing of their superior ignorance,
with much arrogance and patronage.
Patroceni rarely boasted his knowledge of
things, he had either heard so-and-so or
read so-and-so, and in his imperfect mastery
of a strange tongue had doubtless misunderstood
what he had heard or read,
and all this while speaking English with
perfect ease and accuracy.

A very pleasant, clever, gentlemanly man,
thought Sir Jasper, and his verdict would
have been in accord with the table generally.
Mr. Glanfield moodily murmured to
Mrs. Fullerton that " the Count was a little
too silky," to which she replied that she had
noticed horse-racing was wont to imbue
people with suspicion.

Patroceni was frankness itself about how
he came to make Hamilton's acquaintance.
It was at the cercle at Homburg,' , he
replied, in answer to a question from Sir

VOL. I. E

Jasper, " after a hand of baccarat. I won
his money, and thus cemented our friendship.
"We have always a kindly feeling
for those whom we have worsted. I ama
little like your gladiators, and always
respect and regard the adversary who has
worsted me. My friend Mr. Wheldrake,
for example, I esteem highly, although he
made quite what you call — aha show
of us at Hamburg."

"He was very fortunate, was he not?"
said the Baronet.

He was in one of those runs we often
see. He could do no wrong — cards came to-his
call. They do to most of us, Sir Jasper,
some once or twice in the game of life.
Nine men out of ten miss their chance and
rail at their ill-luck when they should blame
their own indolence and obtuseness. It is
possible to old very big cards and be a
very bad player. Most of us are," added
the Count, drily.

The conversation was getting a little too

epigrammatic for Sir Jasper, and he refrained
from replying.

The more the lovers the worse the match,
Is a fact in a woman's history."

quoted Mrs. Fullerton, deftly.

Good, Madam," rejoined Patroceni,
quickly. " I don't know who of your
compatriots wrote those lines, but they are
strangely true. It is the women with the
best chances who mostly make the worst
marriages. I improvise another stanza toit—


The more the kisses, the more the tears,
Is a fact in that painful mystery."

Not quite so innocent of the author as he
professed to be apparently ; but the Italians
have the gift of improvising, and Tom
Hood's lines have a catch and a swing in
them that commends itself to imitation.

You are quite right, Count. Marriage
prompted by passion is always a disappointment.
It is drawing out your capital ene
2

U. OF ILL UB.

masse and leaving nothing to fall back
upon ; the marriage of convenience is better
than that. The marriage of steady regard
and esteem best of all to my thinking,"
and the fair widow shot a rapid glance at
Mr. Glanfield, at that time immersed in the
investigation of a Stilton cheese and glass of
Wrottsley old ale, a compound by no means
to be lightly tampered with.

The woman unconscious of her good looks
never existed, except in fable. The woman
ever conscious of her personal charms is an
everyday experience. Mrs. Eullerton was
neither the one nor the other. She knew
her good points thoroughly, and was quite
aware that for a woman well into her
seventh lustre she could bear being looked
at, and Mr. Glanfield' s insensibility to her
attractions really was very aggravating. All
the more so because it was so evident
that Glanfield was not so much wanting in
appreciation as in power to express it. To
make love to a guinea-bag is so easy ; to

make love when one's heart is stricken is
such a very different matter. How glib
come the man of the world's compliments
when his feelings are untouched ! Let him
be hard hit and it may be questioned
whether the neophyte has not the best of
him.

In the drawing-room Hamilton was no
better pleased with the appearance of things
than he had been at dinner. There could
be no doubt that Cyril Wheldrake hung persistently
about Maude, and most decidedly
was far from meeting discouragement from
his enchantress. Fred had, in the first
instance, to do a little civility in the shape
of talk to sundry of his uncle's guests whom
he had known from boyhood, and if ever
there was a gentleman with little relish for
social sacrifice it was Captain Hamilton.
Wheldrake' s obvious attentions to Miss
Eversley contributed not a little to increase
his irritation, and when Sir Jasper finally
insisted upon his making up a whist-table

for the benefit of old Mr. Langridge, the
deaf incumbent of the parish, the Captain's
disgust knew no bounds. He was too confirmed
a gambler to care much about whist
at any time, but provincial whist for shilling
points made him shudder to think upon.
However, it was absolutely necessary that
he should keep upon the best possible terms
with his uncle, so there was nothing for it
but to comply with as good a grace as he
could assume.

The drawing-room at Wrottsley was
somewhat peculiarly shaped, insomuch as
at one end there was a short leg or recess
to it running out upon the garden, and
terminating in a bay window. The card-table
was always laid out in the recess, and
there many a stout rubber or pool of Scarce
had been fought out with stubborn determination.
There were keen whist-players
round Wrottsley of the Sarah Battle school,
old-fashioned perhaps, but sticklers for
"the rigour of the game," knowing nothing

of the new-fangled asking for trumps, but
playing each hand rigidly out, and holding
that throwing down your cards, let your
hand be what it might, was foolish and
contemptible. A crack player from the
Arlington, who once did battle in their
midst, described them as " just emancipated
from long whist," and declared that a tendency
to ask, " Can you one ? " perpetually
quivered on their lips. To a man whose
palate had been vitiated by high play the
homely rubber of ordinary life proved, of
course, terribly insipid; and it was with
inexpressible relief that Hamilton saw
the evening's tournament brought to a conclusion.


Good nights are said, bedroom candles
are lit, the guests depart, and the ladies
troop upstairs to their pillows.

Tor myself, gentlemen," said Sir Jasper,
as the men gathered round the tray which
contained the customary decanters and

seltzer water, " I'm off to get a good night's
rest. Fred, you will take care of those who
wish to smoke ; only remember, all of you,
Bankside Hangers is worth keeping yourselves
in order for."

"Quite right, Sir Jasper, it is," responded
Glanfield. "Many a good day I've had
there. I shall follow your example. Goodnight,
everyone."

Wheldrake, too, declined the seductions
of tobacco, so that the Count and hamilton
were left alone in the drawing-room.

A cigarette will be refreshing before
turning in," remarked the former, as he
drew a small silver case from his pocket.

Where do we smoke ?"

"We'll smoke here, Count; the Wrotts-
ley smoking-room is a mere dog-kennel.
My uncle, you see, doesn't smoke, and
where that's the case the worshippers of
nicotine get relegated to strange places;
and, just to take the taste of that infernal

rubber out of my mouth, I'll play you five
games of ecarte"

'• If you like," replied Patroceni, as he lit
a cigarette and took his place at the table.
You have a goodly heritage here, my dear
Hamilton,' , he continued, diligently sorting
the packs for their game.

I ? Why I've no more interest in
Wrottsley than you have. It will never
come to me. Sir Jasper has not the power
to leave it me if he wished. You to speak,"
he observed, as he dealt the cards.

"Mark the king, and play him, ,, replied
the Count.

Oh, Wrottsley will go to Miss Beverley?"


"No, Wrottsley, at Sir Jasper's death,
will go to his younger brother, an uncle of
whom I know hardly anything. I'm not
likely to see much of Wrottsley when he
comes into it."

Rather a bore for you to lose the run

of a good country house like this, withall
the sport, &c. which you Englishmen
so love. And this Mr. "Wheldrake, has he
a large country house of his own. If soit
may he good for you; as, unless I am
much mistaken, he is eris with your fair
cousin."

It looked rather like it to-night, and
that is a game I cannot permit him to win
at," rejoined Hamilton, sharply.

Ah ! You must take more effectual
precautions, my friend, than you did at
Homburg. His luck was a good deal too
much for such puny efforts as yours," replied
Patroceni, with a slight inflection of
contempt in his voice.

"Listen, Count, I've a bigger stake on
the board this time than ever I had then.
Wheldrake is stepping between me and
thirty thousand pounds now."

Two games to me. I should not quite
like to stand between you, or indeed between

any one and thirty thousand pounds.
It is so likely to be — well, let's say uncomfortable
"

Hamilton looked at his companion fora
moment in an uncertain way, and then
suddenly exclaimed, "I can depend upon
you, Count, if I should require assistance,
eh?"

My friends can always depend upon
me," rejoined Patroceni, with his accustomed
suavity. " A game to you. I am
two to your one, but the luck's turned, and
it is you who will win the rubber."

m

Win the rubber ? The rubber of one's
life, perhaps," said Hamilton, moodily ;
and Wheldrake seems to have the best of
it, rather, to start with."

Permit me to observe I do not quite
follow you."

Can't you see ? I intend to marry my
cousin. She will have thirty thousand
pounds of her own as soon as she comes of

age, an event which will take place in a few
months."

The Count drew a long breath, apparently
swallowed a cloud of tobacco smoke,
and then leisurely emitted it from his
nostrils.

I understand' he said, at length, " you
know best ; but from the very little I have
seen I should say you have not returned a
moment too soon."

"What! You think "

In my humble opinion our friend Whelm
is making strong love to your pretty
cousin, and Miss Eversley is well pleased
at his doing so. I never saw the man to
whom thirty thousand pounds was not an
attraction. In my country the man who
stood between any one and it would find it a
sickly season. Gun accidents are common,
and I trust nothing of that sort may shock
us tomorrow."

Count ! " exclaimed Hamilton, as he
turned up the trump card

"The king!" said Patroceni; "that's
game and rubber to you. Time to retire,
my friend. Let us trust that we shall all
hold our firearms in the right direction tomorrow.
Good night.' '

CHAPTER IV.

SHOOTING THE HANGERS."

"Morning, Mr. Pilcher; morning, sir,"
exclaimed Chatterson, addressing a slight
wiry man attired in a half-clerical but very
workman-like shooting costume, as he drove
into the stable-yard. " It be a day for the
Hangers and no mistake, bent it ? "

Yes, just one of these steamy autumn
mornings that blossom into a lovely day.
Birds will drive where you like this afternoon,
and we ought not to let many of
them off. Only show us the pheasants and
there should be a good count up about four
o'clock. Who's Sir Jasper got ? "

Good guns every one of 'em, bar the
furrin gentleman. It ain't likely he can
shoot, but I'm going to put him next you,
Mr. Pitch er, and perhaps you'll take care
of him a bit. Never mind waiting for him,
sir," and the keeper favoured the Ev.
Robert with a knowing look that conveyed
a good deal to the recipient, who was rarely
betrayed into the weakness of waiting for
his neighbour to take first turn.

I'll do my best, Chatterson, to cover the
delinquencies of those next me, but I must
just go into the house and say How do ? to
the ladies. I suppose you're off pretty soon
now r

Just as soon as I can get Sir Jasper to
give the word. We're all ready ; it's the
guns is the trouble. Blest if there's ever
any getting the gentlemen together."

Upon going round to the house Parson
Pilcher found Sir Jasper and his party all
gathered under the parte cohere. " Glad
to see you ! " exclaimed the Baronet, as they

shook hands. " You know everyone except
Count Patroceni. Let me introduce you.
Never mind going in; half the ladies are
not down yet, and you'll see them all at
lunch. Where the deuce is Glanfield ? "

All right, I'm here and ready," replied
that gentleman. " Drop the flag as soon
as you like now."

The Bankside Hangers were a series of
small covers by the side of a capital trout-stream,
and constituted as pretty a day's
shooting as any one not an insatiable glutton
could desire. The cover at which they
usually wound up before luncheon was
supposed to offer a pretty crucial test of a
man's shooting capabilities. It was called
the West Hanger, and the guns were usually
ranged in two lines around the end, the
crack shots artistically behind to rectify
the mistakes of their less certain companions.
There was a pretty little stretch of turf
running down from the cover's ridge to
the stream, which served well to place the

shooters in the first instance, the pheasants
usually flying for refuge to a little cover
the other side of the brook, and afterwards
did well for the al fresco picnic it was the
custom of Wrottsley to make of the day at
the Hangers.

Chatterson placed his guns round an
outlying spinney in the middle of a large
piece of ploughed land, where it w r as
customary to commence, and then proceeded.,
with the aid of his myrmidons, to
thrash it out £ Parson Pilcher was placed
between Mr. Glanfield and the Count, much
to the former s disgust. Mr. Glanfield had
more than once expressed his opinion that
Parson Pilcher did not shoot quite like a
gentleman. There was no doubt you could
expect none of the courtesies of the field
from the Rev. Bob. He stood not upon
ceremony, but slew all within his reach,
without reference as to whether the actual
killing of the victim did not more properly
appertain to his neighbour. Glanfield, a

VOL. I. F

very pretty shot himself, disliked having,
so to speak, to shoot on the aggressive;
and yet, if you did not treat Parson Pilcher
in this wise, your own bag was sure to be
scanty. It was a perpetual infraction of
the tenth commandment, the effort to filch
your neighbour's birds.

Now Glanfield, though full of insular
prejudice, and brimming over with utterly
unfounded dislike of the foreigner, was a
very Arab in the way of hospitality, and
could not have been discourteous to an
alien except under dire provocation, therefore
it was with no little disgust that he
saw Parson Pilcher after his old fashion
knock over a hare almost in front of the
Count. Patroceni looked a little astonished
and made no remark, but a minute or two
afterwards, when a pocketing pheasant came
sailing right over the Rev. Bob's head,
which that gentleman was waiting to take
most artistically, the Count's gun rang out,
the bird's wings collapsed, and a ball of

inanimate feathers fell almost into Parson
Pilcher' s mouth. A loud guffaw from Mr.
Glanfield, speechless astonishment on the
part of the Rev. Bob, open-eyed bewilderment
from Chatterson and his subordinates,
with immoveable tranquillity on the part of
Patroceni, completed the tableaux.

"I'm ," murmured Chatterson, "to

think of a farrier taking a bird from Mr.
Pilcher. I wonder whether he did it a
puppus ? "

And it was just this latter problem about
which Mr. Glanfield marvelled much. Was
Patroceni a very fine shot, or was this merely
the result of accident ? Anyway, there was
the opportunity of roasting Parson Pilcher
a little, a process which Glanfield knew by
experience the Rev. Bob bore with undisguised
irritation.

"You're getting a little slow, Pilcher,"
he said, pleasantly ; "it's a great mistake
to dwell upon your birds. You re nothing
if not quick in these days."
f2

This was preaching to the preacher with
a vengeance. The idea of any one giving
wrinkles to the Rev. Boh on the better
management of a shot-gun. He trembled
all over with wrath, and vengefully let
drive at a rabbit that was scuttling across
Glanfield, which pursued its way uninjured
only to roll over to Glanfield' s gun full a
couple of seconds before Parson Pilcher let
fly his second barrel.

Don't know what's come to Mr. Pilcher,"
growled Chatterson to his grinning subordinates.
" He seems to 'a gone clean off his
shooting."

But as the day progressed it became very
evident that the killing of that pocketing
pheasant had been no fluke. The Count
showed himself both a quick and deadly
shot, and as regards Mr. Pilcher perfectly
unscrupulous about appropriating his neighbour's
birds, all the more noticeable from
the particular courtesy he observed to his
companion on the other side. Nobody could

be more keenly alive to all this than Mr.
Glanfield, who did nothing but chuckle over
Parson Pilcher's evident discomfiture. The
Rev. Bob had most assuredly met his match,
and, as is frequently the case under such
circumstances, was shooting by no means
up to his usual form, consequently enabling
his adversary — for such the Count had now
tacitly become — to obtain most decidedly the
best of him. Mr. Glanfield had no yearning
towards foreigners, but he cordially detested
the Rev. Robert Pilcher, and expressed
much satisfaction at seeing him so decidedly
beaten at his own game. He quite thawed
towards Count Patroceni, and was prepared
to fraternise with him should occasion offer.
At last they arrived at the "West Hanger,
and Chatterson, although with some misgiving,
placed Patroceni On the inner line
with Parson Pilcher to cover him and bring
to hand all such birds as the Count failed
to stop. The ladies by this time had joined
the party, and were all there to see the final

rise of the harassed pheasants before lunch.
All the morning the sportsmen had driven
the birds before them from cover to cover,
and this was the pin previous to lunch and
crossing the brook.

Mr. Glanfield viewed the arrangement
with the liveliest feeling of gratification.
He had quite made up his mind about the
foreigner's shooting, and chuckled to think
that Parson Pilcher was likely to have a
somewhat dull quarter of an hour taking
care of what Patroceni missed. There was
a good show of pheasants, and things turned
out just as Mr. Glanfield anticipated.
Rochester after rochester reached the Rev.
Bob as collapsed balls of feathers, having
been artistically killed by the Count as they
passed over his head, and it was only when
Patroceni's barrels happened to be empty
that Mr. Pilcher got the slightest chance
of taking part in the slaughter. To a jealous
shot, such as he was, this was simply maddening,
and it was in the bitterness of his

spirit that lie remarked reproachfully to
the head-keeper at the end of this brilliant
burst —

Well, Chatterson, I never thought
you'd have served an old friend such a trick
as this. It's bad enough to be put next a
rattling good gun, but I can't bear a man
who shoots jealous besides."

And Parson Pilcher, who would have
described himself merely as keen, was really
conscious of most unmerited ill-treatment.
Such is the blindness we have to our own
failings, for the most part.

I must congratulate you, Count," said
Mrs. Fullerton, as the men joined the ladies
by the edge of the stream, preparatory to
luncheon. " I don't know how you've
acquitted yourself all the morning, but you
undoubtedly took the lion's share of the bag
at this last spinney."

"I was in luck, Madame. The lion's
share of the sport came in my way. It was
merely that I did not neglect my opportunities

; I rarely do. It is that which
makes success or failure iu life. I am
afraid, Sir," he continued, addressing the
Hev. Boh, without a sign of triumph in his
face, "you enjoyed few opportunities."

Mr. Glanfield buried his face in a tankard
of claret-cup to hide his emotion, which
from the jerking of his shoulders was
apparently extreme. Parson Pilcher got
perfectly purple with indignation, while
Sir Jasper, laughing outright, exclaimed,

No, Count, I wouldn't give much for
the opportunities that come after you. If
you've missed as few in life as you have
pheasants this morning, you must have been
a very successful man."

I might have been, Sir Jasper, had I
embarked in any other profession than the
regeneration of my country. When you do
that you have to depend upon many confederates.
To do that is to depend upon the
indiscreet, the vacillation, and the fool, as
all bodies of men are leavened more or less

with these elements. Pardon, Madame ; I
only meant what a man can achieve by
himself becomes so much more difficult
when it requires the co-operation of others."
Mrs. Pullerton did not exactly understand
what the Count meant, but pictured him
engaged in every description of design
against the government of his country from
that moment, and took quite an enthusiastic
view of his character in consequence.

I never knew you could shoot, Count,"
observed Hamilton as he lit his cigar
after luncheon.

I have had to learn a good many trades
which people would not credit me with
knowing," replied Patroceni. " Nothing
teaches you to shoot quicker than your
dinner depending on it, and that has been
my case many a time."

His auditors rather stared, but there was
no trace of bombast in the Count's manner,
nor did he give any indication of being
further communicative, and once more

Hamilton felt a little uncomfortable
about the mysterious foreigner whom he
had introduced at Wrottsley. Patroceni
showed no falling-off in his performance
during the day, but infinitely to the
demoralization of Parson Pitch er continued
to be as quick, deadly, and unscrupulous to
the finish, driving the Rev. Bob at length
to marvelling whether it was a judgment
upon him for shooting next a Roman
Catholic, which was, to say the least of it,
quite an assumption on his part, deduced
from a hazy impression that all foreigners
were. Still with everybody but Mr. Pilcher
Count Patroceni continued to ingratiate
himself.

There was nobody but the house-party
that night at Wrottsley ; but they got on
very merrily both at dinner and in the
drawing-room afterwards, with one exception,
and that was Hamilton. That
gentleman was intensely bored. He had
come down for the express purpose of

arranging matters with his cousin, and to
his great disgust found that young lady
busily arranging matters with somebody
else. Fred had for some time past voted
the evenings at Wrottsley slow ; indeed,
they hung heavily on his hands anywhere
where high play didn't enter into their
composition ; but this time he had a purpose
in view, a purpose, too, which it was becoming
an absolute necessity should be
brought to a conclusion pretty quickly, and
which it was transparent even to a casual
observer like Patroceni he would have difficulty
in bringing about. No wonder he
was moody and silent, and little disposed
to take part in the conversation.

When the ladies had departed, and the
men were gossiping round the tray, hamilton
suddenly exclaimed " Let's have a
game at cards before we turn in. Do out
of charity to me. I can't sleep if I go to
bed so early. Come, Wheldrake, you owe
me my revenge."

,J Ah, anything you like for an hour or
two," rejoined Wheldrake, gaily.

You'll join us, Count, eh, and we'll have
a little "baccarat."

I always do what other people do if I
can, and any one can play baccarat," replied
the Count, gravely.

And you, Mr. Glanfield ? "

Oh, I'll run," rejoined that gentleman,
shortly, " if you don't make it too stiff."

Then baccarat it is ! " cried Hamilton,
as he seated himself at the card-table.

CHAPTER V.

HE WANTS ME.

There was no immediate harm done by that
night's baccarat. The stakes were not ruinous,
nor were either Wheldrake or Cranfield
gamblers. Hamilton undoubtedly
was, while as for the Count it was difficult
to say what he was. He had been known
as a high player in pretty well every capital
in Europe, noted for being perfectly impassive
under either fortune, winning or losing
with the same steady equanimity ; but he
always seemed indifferent to the stakes,
being apparently quite as contented to play
for moderate sums as not. He most distinctly

interposed once when Hamilton
suggested heightening the interest, saying
that they were playing for amusement, not
battling in earnest, and when the evening
tournament terminated he and Glanfield
rose losers.

But what came about was this ; the baccarat
became a nightly affair. Hamilton
invariably proposed it; Wheldrake, as a
winner — for his Homburg luck seemed to
stick to him — could only acquiesce, and
the others joined in, Glanfield because it
did rather amuse him, and Patroceni because,
as he said, he always did as other
people did. In one thing the Count was
somewhat unlike the other inmates of
Wrottsley — he was addicted to early rising,
and, with the exception of Sir Jasper, none
of them could be accused of that failing.
He was strolling along the terrace one
morning in enjoyment of his eternal cigarette
— for Patroceni was an almost ceaseless
smoker, when he heard voices in Sir

Easier's study which arrested his attention,
and caused him to pause and listen. He
distinguished the tones of Jackson, the
butler, and in another moment had caught
his words.

It's not right, Sir Jasper, it can't he
right, and I'm bound to tell you about it.
The young gentlemen, you know, will have a
game at cards before they go to bed. Young
gentlemen will, and, what's more, I don't
believe they exactly play for sugar-plums.
They never did at Wrottsley as far as my
memory goes, nor in yours either, Sir
Jasper."

Old Jackson was right in his conjecture.
Given one thorough gambler in a coterie,
and, whatever the stakes may be to start
with, play is certain to get high if they continue,
and so it had been at Wrottsley.
The modest stakes with which they had
commenced no longer contented them.

They will play this new game, buckram,
I'm told it's called," continued the old man,

in his measured, deliberate manner. "I
play a tidy band at 'all fours' myself, and I
ain't very bad at cribbage neither."

Now, if you've got anything to say,
Jackson, say it at once. I'll take your skill
at all fours and cribbage for granted."

"I've been with you, Sir Jasper, man
and boy, for a matter of thirty years, and if
an old servant can't speak "

"I've excellent reason to know he can,"
interposed the baronet, testily. " Nere*
mind the thirty years, let us pass over that
period. Come to what you've to say at
once."

You know, Sir Jasper, I'm just as much
concerned about things going wrong at
Wrottsley as you can be," replied Jackson,
in a wounded voice. " What I've got to
say is this. These gentlemen play this
buckram with two packs of cards of the same
pattern mixed, and I happened to sort these
two packs myself this morning. The great
card, they tell me, in this game is nine, and

it don't want much of a card-player to know
there's eight Dines in two packs of cards.
Now, how many nines should you say I
found in those two packs of cards ? Thirteen,
Sir Jasper ; there were thirteen nines
thirteen nines ! There must be something
wrong, I take it."

Nonsense, Jackson," said the Baronet,
sharply; "you must be mistaken — impossible.
Do you know what you're saying ?
Do you know this amounts to stating that I
have a swindler, a cheat, an unmitigated
scoundrel amongst my quests ? "

No, Sir Jasper, I'm not mistaken," replied
the butler, doggedly.

I never join these games, but to-night
I'll sit up and look on. Not a syllable to
any one, mind. Remember, if there should
be any truth in your discovery, the quieter
the affair is kept the better."

You know best, Sir Jasper, but in my
opinion a fellow who sits down to pick his
friends' pockets at a game of cards ought

VOL. I. G

to be kicked out of the house ; and,

though I'm getting old, I'd do it myself."

A fine, old family servant," muttered
the Count ; " quite useless, utterly incorruptible,
and an intense nuisance. He will
do it ; what a fool he is ! I warned him at
Homburg that a child might detect him,
and how he escaped exposure there I can't
conceive. It was not likely Messieurs
Glanfield and Wheldrake would find him
out, but I — bah, of course, I see it every
night. My dear Hamilton, you are much
too clumsy with your fingers to succeed asa
chevalier industria. v With which reflection
Patroceni resumed his walk.

It seems almost incredible," murmured
Sir Jasper, as Jackson left the room, " that
I should have among my friends one who
would condescend to unfair play. Yet I've
seen too much of the world not to know,
when one would least expect it, the taint
crops up. However, I'll see for myself tonight.
I'll look on at their game a bit."

There was to be no shooting that day at
Throttle. Maude had got up a dance for
the evening, to which many of their immediate
neighbours were bidden. It was nota
ball, but a small, and it was hoped, would
prove a lively, dance. Miss Eversley had
persuaded her father that the men would be
fitter for the duties of the evening if they
were left to their own devices during the
day, instead of being placed under the
orders of old Chatterson ; and so it had
been resolved to give the dogs and keepers
a holiday. Patroceni turned the thing over
in his mind for some time. Of course he
knew that his friend Hamilton cheated at
cards; he had detected him at Homburg;
and that was what had given him his real
hold over the luckless Fred. He had come
to him one day after Hamilton had won
some considerable sum at cards from him
the previous evening, and their conversation,
if brief, had been to the point. The
Count had relentlessly threatened exposure
g2

unless his losings were promptly returned,
and demonstrated his capability of proving
his case. Fred Hammer ton blustered at
first, but quailed before Patroceni's steady
determination at last, and made restitution,
thereby tacitly admitting the justice of the
Count's accusation.

It is no use, Captain Hamilton," said
Patroceni, "my advising you to let tampering
with the cards alone in future. Experience
teaches me that when a man has once
or twice done it successfully no warning will
save him from his inevitable doom. You
are not the stuff of which the finished escroe
is made, and how rarely does he fail sooner
or later to come to grief ! And you come
here amongst all the practised gamblers of
Europe to attempt your common-place ruses.
Anything more ill-advised I never heard of.
Nothing but the chance of your having
played with a lot of babes and sucklings
at the cercle could have saved you from
detection long since."

Fred Hanimerton thanked the Count, and
swore he would never yield to such temptation
again, but the desire to neutralise, if
not get the better of, Wheldrake's extraordinary
luck had proved too much for

him at Wrottslev as it had at Horns



burg.

But the Count had no idea of Hamilton
getting into trouble in this wise. The
blasting of ITammerton's social reputation
would be to take a very useful card out of
his, Patroceni's, hand, and the Count had
no notion of that. What use it was to be to
him he had at present no idea, but Patroceni
was not the man to waste a trump, even if
a small one. Clear to him, at all events,
Hamilton must have warning of this conversation.


The opportunity came in the billiard-room
during the morning, where at the
Count's suggestion Hamilton found himself
doing battle in a game of a hundred
up. At the French cannon game Patroceni

took a deal of beating, but he was by no
means so at home in the English game, and
Hamilton was quite his match.

I think, my friend, I would be a little
sparing in the use of those nines to-night,
if we play. The bucolic mind is slow to
rouse, but pig-headed when it does arrive
at an idea. Prom something I overheard
this morning," continued the Count, as he
slowly chalked his cue, " I fancy our host
seems to have an idea."

"Do you mean," replied Hamilton,
with visible trepidation, " that — that — my
uncle thinks I play baccarat rather better
than my neighbours ? "

I fancy that he and the family butler
have arrived at the conclusion there is a
little hanky-panky going on at the card-table."


No matter," exclaimed Hamilton,
defiantly, " I'll play those nines to-night
again, but in very different fashion. He
does not know it, but Cyril Wheldrake has

stepped between me and thirty thousand
pounds. He has had the audacity to fall
in love with my cousin Maude."

"And, judging from appearances, she
with him," rejoined Patroceni, as he made
an elaborate cannon.

"It has always, as I have told you, Count,
been my intention — not particularly to marry
her; but — most decidedly to marry her thirty
thousand pounds. You understand."

I understand that she is a very charming
girl, and that, to speak metaphorically,
you are a little late for the train."

Not bad looking," rejoined HammeHon,
bitterly. " She represents the discount on
the transaction. Now, you can hardly
suppose that I am going to let \Yheldrake,
or, for the matter of that, a dozen ^Vhel-
drakes, stand between me and thirty thousand
pounds."

My dear friend, I've the greatest regard
for you and the highest admiration for your
amiable disposition, but, as I told you before,

I should not like to stand between you and
thirty thousand pounds."

It is getting high time to settle Whelm
and if possible it must be done tonight.
I shall want your assistance. Listen,
my friend, the first time he lands us all at
baccarat, and I exclaim, 'By heavens Whelm
there's no playing against your luck
you will accuse him of unfair play."

"But, my dear Hamilton, although I
hold all to be fair in love as in war, and
will assist you to the extent of my power,
I can't accuse a man without some grounds.
Such a charge as this unsubstantiated would
simply ruin me not him, and it is his social
destruction you would bring about."

Certainly. You have called me clumsy
with the cards, Count ; only help me, do
what I ask, and see how I shall play them
to-night. Remember I never had a bigger
stake on."

Depend upon me I will not forget my
cue, nor be slow to help you whenever I

see the opportunity, but remember this, to
ruin a girl's lover is not the way to win
her good graces."

I'm not quite so dull as you deem me,
Count. Wait till you see my scheme executed.
Game ! " he continued, as he made
a scientific losing hazard into the top pocket,
"and now I'm off to write letters."

ct Hum ! " mused Patroceni, as his companion
left the room. " I've not much
faith in Hamilton's powers of intrigue,
but I'll take care of myself, and, if there
are any chestnuts to be picked out of the
imbroglio, it is not Hamilton who will
get them," and then the Count proceeded
to knock the balls about till luncheon time.

But old Jackson was by no means the
only intruder in Sir Jasper's sanctum that
morning. A good deal later, indeed about
the time Hamilton and Patroceni were
playing the above recorded game of billiards,
Miss Eversley suddenly made her appearance
in a somewhat flustered and embarrassed

state, but for all that she had a bright
blush upon her cheeks, she bore a happy
smile upon her lips.

Papa, dear, I want to speak to you,"
said the young lady, as she sat down.

Well, Maude, what is it ? Anything of
importance ? "

t( Of the greatest importance. I want to
know if I may keep this ring."

"Why, who gave it you ?" inquired Sir
Jasper, as he glanced at the half-hoop of
pearls and diamonds held up for his inspection.


Cyril Wheldrake. And I should so like
to keep it."

A very pretty ring, and I see no particular
objection," rejoined the Baronet,
laughing. " By the way, Maude, he don't
ask for anything in exchange, eh ? "

Now don't be aggravating. Of course
you know he does. He wants me."

So Cyril Wheldrake has asked you to
marry him. Well, my dear, I can't say I

was altogether unprepared for this. He's a
man of property, and a fine straightforward
young fellow to boot. My dear Maude, I
give my consent heartily, and my warmest
congratulations to boot ; " and the Baronet
took his daughter in his arms and kissed
her heartily. At this moment the door

m

opened, and Mrs. Fullerton made her
appearance. ,,

Oh, dear, what is the meaning of this
display of affection ? " exclaimed the widow.
I come, Jasper, about a man to put up
the sconces for to-night. What, tears
Maude ! What is the matter ? Yes ! I do
believe Mr. Wheldrake has found his tongue
at last. What did he say, child ? He must
have been rehearsing his speech the last
three weeks. It's like reading yesterday's
paper."

Girls must be wooed, Clara. All women
must be won," rejoined the Baronet.

Yes, but in these days of telegraphs
and railways we expect it to be done in

somewhat quicker fashion. When they
have made up their minds to endow us withall
their worldly goods they needn't travel
by goods train to do it."

You've no right to say such things,
auntie. If Cyril had wooed in such slapdash
manner he might have had No for an

answer

"Never mind, my dear, perhaps I'm
thinking of my own affairs. We don't all
dance to the same step. Anyway, Maude,
you've my best wishes for your future
happiness."

Well, Clara, you'd better educate a
young man up to your own standard. A
young fascinating widow, you've heaps of
admirers. Take one of 'em in hand and
let's see a model young man of your breaking
in. Try Glanfield for instance "

Ah," said Maude, laughing, " aunt is
taking great pains with Mr. Glanfield,
though not quite in that direction."

Don't be irreverent," retorted Mrs.

Fullerton, with mock solemnity. " Everybody
has a mission in these day. Mine is
to protest against the slang of the day.
Mr. Glanfield is much improved already by
my animadversions on his disgraceful abuse
of the language of his country." With this
remark and a peal of laughter the widow
swept out of the room.

"Does she mean marrying him, Maude?"
That's very difficult to prophesy about,
papa. It's very hard to tell when auntie's
in earnest, and then remember Mr. Glanfield
is by no means an emotional man. He is a
little struck with auntie, no doubt, but
whether anything will ever come of it I'm
sure I can't say, though I think they would
suit each other capitally. And oh, here's

J. ft ?

Cyril," and as she spoke the door opened
and Wheldrake entered the room.

My dear Sir Jasper, Maude has told
you all. Will you let her keep the ring I
have given her ? Will you trust me with
her for life ? "

There is no one to whose charge I
would more willingly confide her. She's a
good girl, Cyril, and I honestly believe will
make you a good wife. Your father and I
were staunch friends. May you both be
happy."

CHAPTER VI.

PLAYING THE NINES."

The news of Maude's engagement speedily
permeated the house ; such news ever travels
quick in country neighbourhoods, where
small events assume proportions of much
greater magnitude than they do in cities.
The stone that creates a perfect storm in the
pool, thrown into the torrent is hardly
noticed. All Wrottsley knew before the
evening that Mr. Wheldrake was engaged
to be married to Miss Eversley. There was
no need to keep the matter a secret, nor was
there the slightest pretence made of doing
so — indeed, Mrs. Fullerton would have suffered

severely had she been called on to
exercise such repression. Never had Maude
looked prettier or brighter than she did this
evening, as she received the congratulations
of her friends. That those of the men
should come latest was but natural ; the male
creature is usually slow to understand love-making
in which he is not concerned, nor
does he deem a girl's engagement of quite
the same importance it always assumes in a
woman's eyes. She recognises that the step
is taken irrevocably which makes or mars
her future should that engagement be carried
out; that her life-long happiness or
misery are sealed in that quarter-of-an-hour
that consigns her to the keeping of a stranger.
He wakes to that a great deal later,
and little dreams how it may influence his
destiny. He is not, however, risking his all
upon the event ; the woman is.

Love is of man's life a thing apart,
'Tis woman's whole existence."

A lottery in which there are perhaps
nearly as many blanks as prizes. Two
people covenant to live together for life,
only to find they are living with somebody
else, and that they have not in the least
married the person they thought they had.
The seams side of the character has been
carefully concealed on either side up to the
steps of the altar.

By Jove, you know'' said Mr. Cranfield
as with Mrs. Fullerton on his arm he
left the hall at the end of a valse, and entered
the drawing-room, " sort of thing this
that knocks one quite over. "Wonderful
fellow, TTheldrake ; enters himself for one
of the best stakes of the wear, makes all the
running, and wins in a canter''

Perhaps you wouldn't mind putting
that in English, Mr. Glanfield," rejoined
the widow, suavely.

"Beg pardon, Mrs. Fullerton, I quite
forgot. I mean, you know — well, I mean
that he cut out the other fellows ; and that

VOL. I. ' H

he made love to Maude and won her, while
the other men were only thinking about
it."

u Why don't you take a leaf out of his
book, Mr. Glanfield ; we women don't dislike
a little audacity on the part of a lover."

No, of course not. Admire a fellow
that goes a regular perished, right off. But
won't you sit down ?"

A regular perished ! "

I apologise ! " exclaimed Glanfield, hastily.
" I mean that falls in love no end
at once. Awful difficult work," he muttered,
as he seated himself beside Mrs. Fullerton
on the ottoman, "talking to these
women — their knowledge of English is so
limited."

Who is this Count Patroceni ?"

I don't know. Hamilton picked him
up somewhere abroad. Homburg, I believe,
and I fancy has promised to give him a
start in London society — not very difficult
in these days. A croupier from Monte

Carlo, with decent manners, well-cut coat,
and an introduction or two, would niake
his way."

Yes ; what constitutes intense vulgarity
in our own country is voted so interesting
in foreigners. Not that the Count
is vulgar; his manners are really courtly."

He's all bow and scrape ; but he's nota
bad sort for a foreigner. He can shoot,
and the way he took the change out of
Parson Pilcher that day at the Hangers
was simply delicious. But I don't think
I'd try him too high."

Try him too high, Mr. Glanfield ! "

Excuse me, it's a racing expression. I
mean ask too much of him."

"You really are insufferable. Racing
again," she muttered half audibly; "I declare
the man thinks of nothing else."

"Well, I can't help it," he replied, in
answer to her half uttered thought; " there
are times when I regret I ever took to it,

but there's a fascination "

h2

•'Ah, Mr. Glanfield," interrupted the
widow, " you can't think how delighted I
am to hear you say so. I am sure if you
would turn the great abilities you possess
to the study of higher things you would be
certain to "

No, nonsense ; do you really think so ?"
cried Glanfield, excitedly. " I will — I will —
I'll go in a regular buster. I can't ride,
and I hate hunting, but I'll take a pack of
hounds."

That's his idea of higher things," murmured
the widow to herself. "Oh, these
men, these men ! You don't quite understand
me, Mr. Glanfield," she continued
aloud. " You might almost as well remain
constant to that wretched Racing Calendar."

Come, I say, don't speak disrespectfully
of the Having Calendar. Where should we
be without it ? "

"He's very dense," thought Mrs. Puller-ton,
"but, fortunately, I am very patient
and have plenty of time to spare." But

here that lady's further manoeuvres were
interrupted by her hand being claimed for
the Lancers, and Mr. Glanfield was spared
further insidious assault for the present. Still
his assailant was a woman of energy, who
had made up her mind that he would suit
her, and, to use his own language, he had
not a hundred-to-one chance of escape, did
he but know it.

"It strikes me, my dear friend," said
Patroceni, as he and Hamilton lounged
into the dining-room in pursuit of some
refreshment, " that, as I remarked before,
you're a little late. Wheldrake has won
the game while you've been shuffling the
cards."

One game does not make a rubber,
Count. Only let luck favour me, and you
shall see us ties before the night is over."

Should I see that, I shall feel interested
in watching who wins the trick," rejoined
the Count, as he filled a glass of champagne.
To your good fortune, man ami. Have

you made your felicitations on the auspicious
event ? "

"Not yet," rejoined Hamilton, with a
sinister sneer. " I must, as a matter of
course, though there will he small subject
of congratulation, if I know anything of
my uncle, by this time tomorrow."

The music rang out its merriest, and never
had Maude felt in higher spirits than as she
whirled round the old hall in her lover's
arms, to the strains of the Manila valses.
She was feeling all that elation which is so
often the presage of disaster. The storm-clouds
often gather in succession to those
very gay mornings, and a delirium of spirits
often terminates in a delirium of grief. There
is much wisdom in that old Scotch expression
of a person being fey,

Mine at last, Maude," said Wheldrake,
as he bore his fair partner through the
opening into the drawing-room for a minute
or two's rest, "and let me plead for an early
clay. You have never seen Italy, and I

must show you Rome, Florence, Naples,
and the "buried cities. How often we have
talked over Pompeii."

Oh, that will he delightful ! I shall so
enjoy a wander through Italy. Let us
make quite a long tour of it, Cyril."

"You must not quite forget the old
home, Maude," "broke in Sir Jasper, who
had overheard his daughter's speech. "Nor
you, Cyril. One of the first flight mustn't
be absent from the country when bridles are
ringing and bits champing. Whatever
comes, you promise to be home for Christmas."


"Trust me for that, Sir Jasper. Ah,
Hamilton," he continued, as that gentleman
approached with an evident smile of
congratulation on his face. " You have
heard of my good fortune. I know we both
have your good wishes'*

I have just come to offer them. Shake
hands, TTheldrake. In the flush of victory
have a kindly feeling for the beaten man."

"What do you mean, Prod ?" cried Maude,
in open-eyed bewilderment.

"Nothing, nothing' replied her cousin.

"If I cherished dreams My dear Maude,

may you he happy, and for your sake I
trust, as I believe, that the host man has
won," and Hamilton retired abruptly,
with a rather conspicuous use of his pocket-handkerchief.


"It is incomprehensible," exclaimed the
girl. "What can he mean? lie never
spoke a word to me but such as a cousin
well might."

No matter if he did, sweet," rejoined
her lover. "If at all events it never dawned
upon him that he loved you until he realised
that he had lost you, I just now can
sympathise with him in the bitterness of his
disappointment."

"This won't do, Mr. Wheldrakc. It
won't indeed," cried Mrs. Pullerton, who at
that moment entered the room. "You
must pardon my interrupting you, hut it's

well-known that, from the moment a girl's
engaged till the day she's married, she belongs
to every one but her fiance. He, as
Mr. Glanfield would say, 'takes a back
seat'. We can spare you, Maude, no longer.
I'm dying to see the ring, the ring, you
know, and so are half-a-dozen young women,
who will have a sleepless night should
their curiosity remain ungratified."

I yield, Mrs. Fullerton'' replied Whelm
laughing, as he resigned his place on
the ottoman to the widow. " Don't abuse
my poor bauble if you can help it. I know
it is not worthy of her any more than I
am."

There's a mock humility about that
speech that augurs ill for your future, my
dear," remarked Mrs. Pullerton, with that
serio-comic gravity that was one of her
greatest attractions, and they were many,
as Cyril left them. "No, Maude, don't
pout or show temper, but show me the
distempers

auntie," rejoined the girl,
laughing. " I'm in love with all the world
to-night, and the happiest girl in England ;
there's my ring, is it not a beauty ? "

It is pretty," rejoined Mrs. Puller ton.

It's lovely ; it's quite too delicious,"
exclaimed one or Wo young ladies who had
accompanied the widow from the hall withall
that enthusiasm about greeting the
conqueror that always characterises the sex,
albeit mingled with a soupgon of jealousy,
when first welcoming one of themselves
who has returned triumphant from the warpath,
and then the ring was passed from
hand to hand, eliciting various expressions
of commendation and approval.

Mr. Wheldrake, I am told I may tender
my good wishes," observed Patroceni, as he
ran against the young man in the hall.
You will renounce the card table now ; men
drop it when they marry — at least for the
honeymoon."

Thanks, Count. I never was much of

a gambler. "When I play it is simply out
of good fellowship or to pass the time, and
I take care I do not play too dearly for my
amusement. "

M I'm a physiognomist," rejoined Patron
" You have the face of one of fortune's
favourites, Mr. Wheldrake. It is men like
yourself, indifferent to winning, who break
banks. I shall be curious to see how the
capricious goddess treats you to-night,
should we play."

To-night ! " exclaimed Cyril. "Why my
star is in the ascendant. Have I not won
the prize I set my heart on ? Surely, Count,
you have not forgotten the old play-axiom
Follow your luck.' I shall simply ruin
you all."

Perhaps so, but there is another old
adage, 'Lucky in love, unlucky at cards.'
I repeat I shall be anxious to see whether
you falsify it."

But the revel draws to a close, the
carriages come round, and, with many protestations

of what a delightful dance it has
been, the guests take their departure. Old
Jackson closes the supper-room, and the
house party gather round a table in the
drawing-room which has done duty all night
as a supernumerary buffet. This table stood
near the recess in which preparations for
cards had been made as usual.

You won't desert us to-night, Whelm
? We count upon you to make up
our party," said Hamilton, as he restlessly
fingered the cards. " Besides you owe us
our revenge."

"All right, Hamilton," rejoined Whelm
as he crossed to the card-table.
Five minutes, and, as soon as the ladies
have gone, I'm your man; and here's my
gage' and as he spoke he threw his note-case
on the green cloth, and then turned
back to the buffet, where much lighting of
bedroom-candles and judicious mingling of
seltzer, &c, was in progress.

Did you see Miss Eversley's betrothal

ring, Mr. Glanfield. It is simply delicious,"
said the widow.

I never heard a ring called delicious
before. Would you be kind enough to "

Yes, I'll take anything with ice in it,"
interrupted the widow, tartly. " I believe
the man's a fool," muttered Mrs. Pullerton
to herself.

Nice looking, very; got her good points.
But uncertain in temper," murmured Mr.
Glanfield, softly.

But Sir Jasper, in the fullness of his
heart was suddenly inspired with a speech.
The country gentleman is not usually great
in his oratorical efforts. Sir Jasper's had one
merit — it was brief.

My friends, you all know what has 
my girl has accepted Cyril
TTheldrake for her husband. I want you,
before we say good-night, to drmk one glass
of champagne to their future happiness.
Champagne, Jackson ! Here's luck and
prosperity to the newly-engaged pair."

During Sir Jasper's speech, and the subsequent
handshaking and congratulations,
the Count, at a whisper and gesture from
Hamilton, stepped forward, and so to a
great extent masked the card-table at which
the former stood. Quick as thought, hamilton
seized the note-case and promptly
slipped into it some of those surreptitious
cards which it was his miserable madness
te use when playing.

The twig is limed ! " he whispered ;
don't forget your cue, Count. Here, give
me a glass. Maude, I drink to your health —
and happiness."

A bright, merry wedding, my dear, and
don't keep us long ere you set the bells
ringing," said Mrs. Fullerton, as she raised
her glass to her lips.

You are all so kind ; how can I thank
you ? " replied Maude in a half-tearful voice.
I must leave Cyril to do it. Good night,
everyone ! " and so saying the heroine of
the evening hastily made her exit.

The ladies troop off to bed; Wheldrake
and Glanfield follow them out of the room
and linger over these last good nights.

Fortune has favoured me more than I
could hope," exclaimed Hamilton, excitedly.
Don't forget your cue. Count, and, strange
though it sound, let Wheldrake win but
once to-night, and he gets up from the table
a ruined man."

You are clever, my friend," replied
Patroceni ; " I shall await the result of your
little comedy with much interest."

Ah, here you are, Wheldrake," cried
Hamilton, as Cyril and Glanfield re-entered
the room. " Come and give us our revenge."

Willingly, but, as I told you before, so
I warn you again, it is my day."

An imprudent statement," said Patroceni;
take revenge, but never give it. If ever
you should break the bank at Monaco, remember
my advice : instead of letting them
take revenge take a ticket yourself for the
next train."

"Against a public bank, yes," said Sir
Jasper, " but the advice hardly applies to
gentlemen."

Of course not, uncle," replied hamilton
; " the Count's advice only applies to a
public gaming-table," and without further
comment he commenced dealing the cards.
You to bank, Wheldrake."

They had not been playing more than half
an hour before the door was stealthily opened,
and Maude peeped into the room. " My
ring," she murmured. " I cannot sleep
without it on my finger. Auntie says she
left it on the table. I would not have
Cyril know I had been so careless for the
world."

Old Jackson and his myrmidons had put
out most of the lights in the drawing-room
before retiring, leaving only those which lit
up the recess. Stealthily Maude crept across
the semi-obscurity to the small table near
the ottoman, where she at once regained
her treasure. She was about to retire as

noiselessly as she had entered, when her
cousin's voice at the card table arrested her
attention.

"By Jove, Wheldrake, there is no playing
against your confounded luck," cried Fred
Hamilton, petulantly.

"Will Mr. Wheldrake permit me to
observe he drew a card — of course inad-
vertently—from his case with that last banknote
? " remarked Patroceni, suavely.

Sir, do you know what you are saying?"
said Cyril, fiercely.

"A mistake, no doubt," rejoined the
Count, quietly.

Do you dare to accuse me of cheating ? "
said Wheldrake, as he sprang to his feet.

An accident, of course, but an awkward
one, Signor."

Sir, I throw the accusation back in
your teeth. I produced no card, and you
know it," exclaimed Cyril, furiously.

Absurd, Count, your eyes must have
deceived you ! " cried Hamilton, starting

vol. i. I

up and placing his hand on CyriPs note-case.


Put that down immediately. How dare
you lay hands on my property, Captain
Hamilton ? "

Pray be calm, Wheldrake ; I am doing
the very best I can for you. You surely
can have no objection to my emptying your
note-case on the table."

As if any one who knows Cyril "Whelm
could possibly suspect him of anything
so shameful ! " cried Glanfield, intones
of honest indignation.

"My eyes are good. I have played inmost
capitals of Europe," rejoined the
Count, in the blandest of voices, and with
no symptom of irritation, " and learnt to

my cost how fortune can be assisted "

Silence, gentlemen ! " suddenly interposed
Sir Jasper, who had been a silent
looker-on at the vicissitudes of the card-table.
"Cyril, I am distressed beyond measure
that any guest of mine should venture

to bring such an accusation against you.
Red," he continued, turning to Harriers
" Count Patroceni is a friend of yours.
You are responsible for his presence here.,
I need scarcely say that nothing but the
most substantial proofs can make any of us
believe this charge against Cyril Whelm


Maude, who had listened spell-bound and
breathless to the altercation, stole forward
at her father's words. She had gathered
enough to know that her lover was accused
of foul play by that foreign friend of Fred's,
and she inwardly blessed her father for thus
taking up the cudgels in Cyril's behalf.

Eor heaven's sake be calm, Whelm
! " exclaimed Glanfield, laying his
hand upon the excited man's arm. " We
will kick the fellow out of the house in
two minutes."

Empty the case," was Patroceni's sole
retort.

By this the whole party were on their
i2

feet, with the exception of the Count, who
still remained seated, calm and immovable.
All eyes were turned upon Hamilton ashe
turned out the notes, and, to the horror
and amazement of Cyril, Glanfield, and Sir
Jasper, three cards with them.

Sir Jasper, Glanfield, you can't believe
■ "

Liar, was I ?" said Patroceni, in sneering
tones; "I think not, Mr. Wheldrake,
there are three witnesses against you."

Look at that man ! " exclaimed Cyril, ashe
pointed his finger at the Count. " What
object he, whom to my knowledge I never
injured, has in plotting my downfall I can't
guess. I cannot form a conjecture, but so
surely as I stand before you this night, a
ruined and disgraced man, so surely am I
the victim of treachery. I can hardly hope
that any one present will believe my innocence."


Suddenly, like a flash of light, Maude
darted out of the obscurity, threw her arms

round her lover, and cried, " I would stake
my life on your innocence, Cyril ! "

Heaven bless you for that, my darling.
I am the victim of a deep-laid plot, but
believe me, Maude, I am as worthy to be
your husband now as when I won consent
from your sweet lips some hours ago."

It is time this painful scene was put an
end to," said Sir Jasper. "After what has
happened you cannot, as a man of honour,
hold my daughter to her troth."

And do you think I would be released
from it?" cried Maude, proudly. "Only
this morning I promised to marry Cyril.
Do you suppose I will abandon him at sight
of the first trouble that clouds our sky ?"

"No, whilst this stain rests on my character
I'll make no girl my wife."

Oh, Cyril, my love, my love, you are
not going to leave me ! " moaned Maud, in
her agony.

Yes, dearest, I'll not drag you through
the mire that lies before me. Do you think

I could see you pointed at as a card-sharper's
wife ? I go forth from amongst
you to-night a wanderer and an outcast, but
the plot will some day be unmasked, and
that foreign adventurer seen in his true
colours at last."

Count Patroceni is my friend, sir,"
interposed Hamilton, hotly.

I congratulate you on the acquaintance.
Good-bye, Sir Jasper. Adieu, my love,"
and as he spoke he handed the half-fainting
girl over to her father. " The game, gentlemen,
is not played out as yet. Listen. Like
all gamblers you are superstitious. I have
a presentiment. We shall play once more,
our lives the stake, and it will be my turn
to win."

CHAPTER VII.

AFTER THE EXPLOSION.

For a minute or two after "Wheldrake's
departure there was dead silence round the
card-table, broken only by Maude's slightly
hysterical sobs.

Get some water, Glanfield, please," said
Sir Jasper, as he supported his half-fainting
daughter in his arms, " and as soon as she
has drunk a little of that I must get her to
bed. It's too horrible ! I couldn't have
believed it of Cyril Wheldrake."

And don't now," rejoined Glanfield, ashe
handed a tumbler to Maude.

The girl said nothing, but thanked him

with a look as she took the glass, but Sir
Jasper's sole response was a sorrowful
shake of the head. A few minutes more,
and, after swallowing a few mouthfuls of
water, Maude was enabled, with the assistance
of tier father's arm, to leave the room.

The three men stood for a few seconds
silently regarding each other. Patroceni
was the first to speak.

Adieu, gentlemen," he said in his
blandest manner. " It is an unfortunate
business ; and after the part I have played
it is of course impossible for me to remain
at Wrottsley. I shall leave early tomorrow
morning. I must trust to you, Hamilton,
to say my good-bye to Sir Jasper, and to
thank him for his courtesy and hospitality.
Good night ! " and the Count, taking up his
bedroom candle, bowed slightly, and disappeared.


"Bad business, very," said Hamilton,
as he prepared to follow Patroceni's example.

It will be most decidedly bad for your

foreign friend whenever I get at the rights
of it," replied Glanfield, drily.

The rights of it, or rather the wrongs of
it, were, I regret to say, only too clear,"
rejoined Hamnierton, sharply. " You are
prejudiced against foreigners, but you could
hardly expect Patroceni to remain silent
when he discovered the source of Whelm
extraordinary luck, though had
he dreamt of Maude being in the room I
feel sure he would have continued to suffer
in silence."

Listen to me," retorted Glanfield, as he
looked his companion straight in the face.
I've seen a good many robberies on the
turf that I didn't understand, but I knew
they were robberies. I've seen what they
can do with cards at the Egyptian Hall, and
I don't hold that 'seeing is believing.'
How it was done and why it was done I
don t know. What your friend's object was
I can't fathom, but that Cyril Wheldrake
has never cheated at cards I feel certain."

"Do you mean to insinuate that Count
Patroceni "

Stop a moment' interrupted Glanfield.
I never insinuate, and I don't bring accusations
against a man's honour till I'm in a
position to prove them. I only tell you my
firm conviction, as you were present. I
don't intend opening my mouth on the subject
to any one else. Good-night."

Hamilton took a turn or two up and
down the room, then walked to the buffet
and mixed himself a pretty stiff dose of
brandy and water. He had not been very
particular for some time past, but such a
shameful piece of villainy as he had this
night committed he had never as yet even
dreamt of. As he had been spoiled, so had
he turned spoiler, and had for some months
past resorted to mal practices at the card-table.
Differing from Shakespeare on the
point, he deemed that "it was in mortals
to command success," and saw no necessity
for deserving it. Still, a man does not own

to himself that he has turned a consummate
scoundrel without some pricks of conscience,
and, what is more, feeling terrible misgivings
when he knows that another is in full possession
of his guilty secret. Hammer ton, now
the thing was done, became conscious that
he had placed himself dreadfully in Patron
hands. Well, he had got rid of a
rival, he reflected, at any rate ; it would befor
him now to make the most of his opportunity
and take care that no one else stepped
between him and his cousin. He was a fool
not to have clenched matters before. He
would strike now as soon as ever sufficient
time had been allowed her to get over this
affair with Wheldrake. Hamilton had
slight belief in woman's constancy, and
fancied Maude would speedily teach herself
to forget her disgraced lover ; still he knew
he had a difficult game to play. It was very
possible that Maude — even if she allowed
Wheldrake to be erased from her memory —

might not set up his — Hamilton's — image
in its place ; but, thought the Captain, ashe
gulped down his brandy and water, it is
not difficult to so compromise a girl on the
subject of marriage as to make it very difficult
for her to back out when put to the
point.

There were gaps in the ranks at breakfast-time
the next morning, which, though not at
first perceptible, in consequence of the laxity
regarding that meal which generally characterised
the inmates of Wrottsley, eventually
attracted the sharp eyes of Mrs. Eullerton.
Sir Jasper was not there ; that was nothing,
he had usually finished his meal before the
fair widow made her appearance ; but both
the Count and Maude were absent; Glanfield
and Hamilton were unusually silent over
their meal, and the latter announced that,
business requiring his presence in town
immediately, he was compelled to leave by
the mid-day train. Mrs. Eullerton scented

mischief in the air ; there was a screw loose
somewhere she felt convinced. What was
it ? The widow was not the woman to rest
in ignorance on such a question as this.
Mr. Glanfield must be made to confess. Of
course, he was privy to the iniquity that had
broken up the party; for that there had
been an esclandre of some kind Mrs. Puller-ton
felt pretty positive. The sudden disappearance
of Patroceni, the undisguised
uneasiness of Hamilton and Glanfield,
convinced the widow something unpleasant
had taken place.

And are you going to desert us ? " said
Mrs. Pullerton, softly, " What a sad breakup
of a pleasant party."

Yes, I am entered for the midday train,
and am a certain starter," rejoined Glanfield.

Which, being interpreted," remarked the
widow, "means, as far as I can follow your
extraordinary patois, that you accompany
Captain Hamilton to London."

"It so happens that we are going to

London by the same train," retorted Cranfield,
curtly, "but I am not accompanying
Captain Hamilton."

"I thought so," murmured Mrs. Pullerton
to herself. "There has been a quarrel of
some sort amongst them. Where are Mr.
Wheldrake and Count Patroceni?" she continued,
aloud.

They both left, I presume, by the morning
train," replied Glanfield, with a malicious
smile ; " we go by the midday train. The
others, no doubt, will follow by the evening
mail."

u What others?" exclaimed Mrs. Fullerton.
But a twinkle in the speaker's eye
suddenly informed her of the real state of
the case, and it was with the most righteous
indignation that she cried, " You are jesting
with me, Mr. Glanfield ! You can't deceive
me ! There has been a misunderstanding,
and I insist upon knowing all about it."

I have nothing to tell," replied Glanfield,
quietly, " or, if you like it better, regret that

I cannot satisfy your curiosity. I am quite
willing to admit, Mrs. Fullerton, that something
has happened, and fear that far too
many people are cognizant of the occurrence
for it to be long a secret. I shall be only
too happy to find myself mistaken."

The grave manner in which Mr. Garfield
said this, together with the utter absence
of the argot with which he was wont
to embellish his speech, struck Mrs. Puller-ton
forcibly. She not only felt that something
had occurred, but that it was a shell
of some magnitude that had exploded
amongst the party. She had Mr. Glanfield
all to herself, the two being now the sole
occupants of the breakfast-room ; but there
was a set look about her companion's face
that forbade further questioning, and
checked the ever-ready tongue of the
light-hearted widow.

Before he left, Glanfield made his way to
Sir Jasper's sanctum, nominally to say
good-bye, but in reality to request him to

suspend his judgment. No loyalty friend
in his trouble had Cyril Wheldrake than
Mr. Glanfield : it was all no use ; in vain
did Glanfield insist upon his favourite
theory that " seeing is not believing" in
these days of science and chicanery; Sir
Jasper was inflexible. He held steadily to
the one point, that with his own eyes — sad
to say — he had seen Cyril "Wheldrake convicted
of cheating at cards, and that no man
with such a stain on his escutcheon should
ever wed daughter of his. It was useless
for Mr. Glanfield to urge that vision may be
deceived; to hint that the foreigner, for
some occult reason of his own, had blasted
Wheldrake's fair fame. Sir Jasper, like the
honest country gentleman that he was, put
aside all such high-flown argument.

It is loyal of you, Glanfield, to stand
by him, but I cannot doubt the evidence of
my own eyes. It was the saddest evening
of my life when I had to acknowledge my
girl's lover a simple card-sharper. God

forgive Cyril Wheldrake — not for the night
he occasioned me to pass, but for the agony
he caused my daughter. Caused ! " cried
the Baronet, fiercely. " Caused! still causes!
Maude is crushed, broken-hearted ; to think
that any daughter of mine should have
her happiness wrecked by such a cur."

u Wheldrake is no cur, sir, and he is no
cheat. The day will come when this deception
will be exposed, and you yourself will
be the first to acknowledge how very hardly
he has been treated. Good-bye, Sir Jasper.
I sympathise most sincerely with you and
Miss Eversley in your trouble, but I also
sympathise with Cyril, who, in spite of appearances,
I feel convinced is an innocent
man."

But Sir Jasper only shook his head as he
bade Glanfield farewell. He was sorely
distressed at what had happened, both on
bis daughter's account and that of her
fiance. It was not only the terrible blow
and humiliation this entailed upon Maude,

VOL. I. K

but he grieved to think that a fine young
fellow like Wheldrake should have so hopelessly
blasted his name and forfeited his
position. He had seen one or two such
cases before, and knew that a man never
got over such a fatal charge as that of which
Cyril stood convicted.

As for Mr. Glanfield, he was only too
correct in his surmise. Before the evening
Mrs. Pullerton, and indeed the house generally,
were aware that there had been a
great fracas at the card-table ; that Mr.
Wheldrake had been detected cheating, and
had been denounced by Count Patroceni ;
that all the gentlemen had gone to town,
that Mr. Wheldrake had called the Count
out, that a duel had been arranged, and that
the four gentlemen were all on their way to
the Continent. How this had all leaked out
it was impossible to say. Old Jackson, who
was oj no means without the weakness of
garrulity, had probably given the key-note ;
but these things always do leak out. There

never was a family quarrel yet but the
domestics were acquainted with all the details
of it, and in discussing it are w T ont to weave
their own embellishments into the telling
of the story. So in this case it was most
likely the opinion of some bellicose footman
that Mr. Wheldrake ought to challenge the
Count, and he, therefore, did not hesitate
to state that Mr. Wheldrake had done so,
after which the adjournment of the four
gentlemen to the Continent followed as a
matter of course.

Mrs. Fullerton, as soon as the garbled
version of the affair reached her ears, went
at once to Sir Jasper. She was a shrewd
woman, and, without believing the story
quite as related to her by her maid, had no
doubt that it was in the main true, but she
wished to know exactly what did take place.
She was much distressed on her niece's
account, for she felt sure this was an offence
of that nature her brother would be pitiless
in dealing with. She knew well that 


thing of this description was a crime of the
deepest possible dye in his estimation, and
felt sure that he would never give his
daughter to a man lying under such a
stigma, and she knew that this would bring
much misery to Maude. Mrs. Fullerton
knew also that her niece's was no half-hearted
love, that the girl was of a warm
affectionate disposition, and that no man
before Wheldrake had ever ensnared her
feelings. She was not the girl to love
lightly, but having once parted with her
heart was sure to be very earnest in her
love. Mrs. Pullerton was quite aware that
it would take Maude a very long time to
pluck up the roots of her strong attachment
for Cyril Wheldrake. Sir Jasper, finding
how much his sister did know, at once made
her acquainted with the whole story, and
also that everything was over between
Maude and her luckless fiance.

"It's a miserable business, Clara, and I
would willingly for both their sakes have

hushed the thing up had it been possible,
but you yourself are evidence that the story
is already common property. Besides, how
are we to account for an engagement made
one day and broken off the next ? It's
terrible ; I have hardly proposed health and
prosperity to the young couple before I am
compelled to turn my intended son-in-law
out of the house. "We have had barely time
to tell people there is a wedding in prospect
before we are obliged to deny it. Such a
fine young fellow too ! What madness
possessed him ? "

It is inexplicable," rejoined Mrs. Puller-ton.
" He's the last man I should ever
have suspected of anything mean or underhand.
Still, you say Mr. Glanfield believes
in him ? "

Yes, Glanfield, in his loyal friendship to
Cyril, refuses to believe the evidence of his
senses. But don't build upon that, Clara,
and, above all, don't let Maude know it."

"Mr. Glanfield is no fool, although he

does go racing, " replied Mrs. Puller ton,
musingly ; " and, to use one of his own
absurd expressions, ' straight as a line.' "

I thought you were to teach him to
drop slang. It strikes me he's corrupting
you," retorted Sir Jasper, with a smile.

I don't think," continued Mrs. Pullerton,
without noticing the interruption, " that he
would stand up for a friend even, if he considered
him in the wrong."

His friendship closes his eyes to facts."

I can't give you any reason for it, but I
shouldn't wonder if Mr. Glanfield turned
out to be right."

Don't delude yourself with the idea,
and pray don't put it into Maude's head."

"Oh, dear, it wants no putting there.
Why, you don't suppose, Jasper, you can
make her believe that Mr. Wheldrake is
guilty. No, you can forbid her to marry
him, and I suppose you must, under the
circumstances, but you can't make her
believe that her lover has done anything

wrong. A girl takes a good deal of convincing
on that point, even when the man
himself is doing his hest to make her mistrust
him. She will feel it very much,
Jasper. You have no idea how very much
attached to him she is."

I wish to heaven she had never seen
him," replied the Baronet, irritably, to
which Mrs. Eullerton deigned no reply.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE COUNT NAMES HIS PRICE."

Could Hamilton have been made acquainted
with Patroceni's reflections on his
way to town he might well have had misgivings
about having placed himself so
completely in the Count's power. That
gentleman was indeed turning over in his
own mind how to exact the most for the
very questionable service he had rendered
his friend. u It is not to be supposed,"
mused the Count, " that I am to lose the
entree of a capital country-house — for, of
course, I shall never again be asked to
Wrottsley, and be the chief instrument in

blasting the character of a riian against
whom I have no cause of quarrel — for nothing.
I'm not at all particular, but it
can't be supposed that one assists in such
very dirty work as this for nothing. My
friend, Hamilton, you will find that,
though an able, I am a somewhat expensive,
coadjutor. The great question is what can
you afford to pay in either money or kind.
I must think, my dear friend, I must think."

The result of the Count's cogitations was
that the next day Hamilton received a
visit at his rooms in the Albany from Patron


1 wonder what brings him here," muttered
the Captain, as he glanced at the
Count's card ; " and what it is he wants to
see me for ? Show the gentleman in, William.
Ah, Count, this is an unexpected
pleasure. Charmed to see you ; looked
forward to meeting you to-night at the
Harlequin."

I could not resist the temptation of congratulating

you on the success of you' little
comedy."

"Well, Count!" cried Hamnierton, exulting
ugly, " I told you I should score the
second game. What do you say now to my
tactics? I was sorry to sacrifice Whelm
a fine young fellow with a nice
fortune, in the prime of early manhood.
He would have been worth a good many
hundreds to you and me, and but little the
worse for losing a few of his quill-feathers.
However, the fool must needs fall in love
and come between me and thirty thousand
pounds."

Ah ! you have disposed of him. As a
foreigner, perhaps, I do not understand your
world, but if this thing is known, talked
about, I presume Mr. Wheldrake is socially
ruined."

Yes. I don't mean to appear in it, but
I shall take care it is known. His club will
request him to resign. They must. The
customs of society are much the same

throughout Europe, aud the whispers of
club-laud travel far. Wheldrake is socially
ruined."

It is clever, very clever, my dear friend.
You have, undoubtedly, disposed of a favoured
rival, but, mark me, degrading a
lover in a woman's sight never yet recommended
a man to her good graces."

Oh, fie, Count ; our foggy island has
bemused your brains. My work is not so
clumsily done as that. Why did I make
you my confederate ? Don't you see that in
Maude's eyes it is you who exposed her
lover. Don't you see that Glanfield and
Wheldrake regard the treachery they suspect,
but cannot understand, as yours ?"

You are right ; I am dull. Forgive me,
my friend, I overlooked that little circumstance.
Is it permitted to ask what is your
next move?"

Certainly, Count," replied Hamilton,
as he pushed a cigarette-case across the
table to Patroceni. "It is very simple : I

appear everywhere with my uncle and
cousin. In a short time I flood the Society
papers with paragraphs. ' We understand
that a marriage has been arranged.' 'Weare
authorised to state that Captain hamilton
will shortly lead to the hymeneal
altar Maude, only daughter of Sir Jasper
Eversley,' &c. &c. You comprehend : before
the girl knows where she is, she will
be compromised in the eyes of the world. I
am congratulated. Of course, I deny there
is any truth in it, but in such a way as
means it is not officially announced ; and.
Count, you and I know that a woman,
smarting under such a disappointment as
my cousin's, has been often won in such
fashion."

Clever, yes, decidedly clever ; your
scheme, my friend, is very ingenious ; permit
me to point out one flaw in it."

Certainly' rejoined Hamilton, eagerly
; " any suggestion of yours I shall be
only too glad to take advantage of."

The Count threw himself back in his
chair, emitted a thin cloud of smoke from
under his moustache, and then said, quietly,
You don't seem to have considered me."

You," replied Hamilton, in utter bewilderment.
" I don't understand. What
do you mean ? "

Ah ! it is you now, my dear hamilton,
who are a little dense," rejoined the
Count, smiling. " My excellent friend, to
assist you to win the hand of a charming
girl with thirty thousand pounds (seven
hundred and fifty thousand francs) I submit
to figure in the most atrocious light in her
eyes and those of another worthy gentleman
or two."

Nothing of the sort, Count," interposed
Hamilton, hurriedly. " You expose a card-sharper.
Society is your debtor."

My conscience, sir. The degradation of
lending myself to such a fraud. Is that not
matter for compensation ? " replied Patron


Oh ! that's your game, is it ? " rejoined
Hamilton, roughly. " Never mind your
conscience and feelings. Name your price.' '

A question of figures," said the Count,
calmly, and as he spoke he checked the items
off on his fingers. " Give per cent, on thirty
thousand pounds down — hum, that's 1,500/.;
five per cent, again the week before the
marriage, that's 1,500/. more, and a bill fora
third 1,500/. at the end of six months;
total, 4,500Z. Dirt cheap for such obloquy
as I must bear."

Never mind the latter part of your
story," rejoined Hamilton, brusquely.
"We know each other a little too well for
that. The price is too stiff, Count."

u Probably the other side would give
more," rejoined Patroceni, as he flipped the
ash off his cigarette. " Mr. Wheldrake
would think five thousand little to clear his
reputation, and win the girl he loves with
her thirty thousand pounds. 1 daresay he
would give ten. Don't be stupid, my dear

Hamilton. Robbery in West End clubs,
with West End manners, is exactly the same
thing as robbery without the polish, and,
human nature being precisely the same in
high and low, the spoilers are just as liable
to quarrel over the plunder."

Curse your moralizing ! " rejoined the
Captain, sullenly. "Say two thousand
pounds the week before the marriage, and
have done with it."

You are too impatient, my friend, to bea
good business man," remarked Patroceni,
blandly ; " but when I say I must have four
thousand, at least, or change sides, you will
understand it is advisable to give it."

"I see nothing of the kind. Brag is a
great game, but I am an old hand at it.
Two I will give you, and no more."

I never argue about such bagatelles asa
couple of thousand pounds," replied the
Count, with all the air of a millionnaire, to
whom such a sum was but as loose change.
If I don't get it one way I do another."

Hamilton made no immediate reply to
Patroceni's last speech. It dawned upon
him in good earnest now that he was in
the hands of as rank a bandit as ever sprang
from the tribes. The quiet relentless power
of the Count's nature awed him. He felt
that Shylock was demanding his pound of
flesh, and realised his inability to cope with
Shylock. Yet he possessed one argument
which must prove irresistible, and Patroceni
already had a suspicion of this. Hamilton
could plead with perfect truth inability to
comply with the first clause in his antagonist's
bond. It was a suspicion of this that
had caused Patroceni to lower his claim by
500Z. He suspected his dear friend hamilton
might have considerable difficulty in
finding that ready money for which he at
first stipulated, and this had caused him to
think that perhaps a thousand pounds was
as much as could be wrung from him at
present. As for the rest, it was all contingent
upon his engagement with Maude

Eversley. Should Hamilton succeed in
that venture he would experience but little
difficulty in raising the two remaining sums.
But Hamilton, although he was endeavouring
to drive a hard bargain, was, of course,
aware that, ere it could be concluded, the
first clause must be cancelled, his finding
a thousand pounds was simply a sheer impossibility.


Absurd, Count ! " he answered at last.
I will give you a thousand pounds down
the week before I am married, and a bill for
another thousand at three months. That's
the most I can or will do ! "

"And that is your final offer?" said the
Count, as he rose and proceeded leisurely
to draw on his gloves.

Hamilton nodded.

I will give you a week to amend it, and
then I go to the other side."

No you won't, Count ! " cried hamilton,
harshly. " I should think even you

VOL. i. L

would shrink from voluntarily proclaiming
Yourself such a consummate scoundrel ! "

"Monsieur " exclaimed Patroceni,

sharply.

Pooh, Count, there is no need to mince
matters between you and me. We may
speak plainly to one another. You expose
me and you place me in the precise position
I have placed Wheldrake in if people believe
you — but you will stand in the dock by my
side. Either way you will ruin yourself,
believed or not believed. It is possible
people may take the word of a well-known
London man before that of a foreigner of
whom they know nothing. I should have
thought a thousand pounds extra a dear
price to pay for having such a scandal tacked
to one's name."

And yet," returned the impassible Patron
" that is precisely what you decline to
pay to avert it."

Hamilton bit his lips with vexation to

find how his eloquence had been wasted.
The quiet way in which, after listening to
his long exposition of the case, the Count
turned the tables upon him, was exasperating.
He recognised that he was battling with an
astute brain and more inflexible will than
his own.

Patroceni stood calmly awaiting his reply.

There is this difference," rejoined Hani-
merton, after a little thought, " I shall have
to find a thousand pounds. You have only
to forego it."

u I congratulate you upon even seeing
that far beyond your nose; but that, you
see, happens to be your business. You pay
attention while I state the case to you. I
am a man not given to render services for
nothing. For holding my tongue at Homburg
and assisting you in this last little
comedy — upon which, by-the-bye, I once
more compliment you — I intend to be paid.
This marriage may never come off, in which
case I should receive nothing. "Decidedly,
l2

my friend, I do not mean to leave England
without replenishing my purse."

Hamilton eyed the Count keenly.

Then your estates are mere chateaux en
Espagne" he remarked bitterly, at length.

The first time you are in the neighbourhood
of Naples I invite you to come and seeme
in the character of a country gentleman.
I will give you a week to think of it, or, as
we are speaking plainly, a week to raise the
thousand pounds. For the present, adieu ! "
and with a polite bow Patroceni took his
departure.

Hamilton threw himself back in his
chair and became absorbed in thought. He
had no compunction about what he had
done; it had become such a necessity that
he should marry money, and that speedily,
that he was prepared to go any lengths to
achieve his purpose ; indeed he had already
proved himself utterly devoid of scruple
about the means by which he was to attain
his end. He regretted deeply that he was

so much in Patroceni's power; but the more
he thought of it the more convinced he was
that he could not have successfully carried
out his plot without the assistance of an
adroit confederate. The presence of Maude
had been unfortunate in some wise, as it
had afforded her the opportunity of hearing
her lover protest his innocence in person
instead of by letter, as would otherwise have
been the case. But then, on the other hand,
his cousin stood convinced by the evidence
of her own eyes that it was not he who had
brought the accusation against Wheldrake
indeed he could argue plausibly enough
that he had taken his part and done his best
to disprove the shameful charge brought by
Patroceni. What was he to do? As for
raising the thousand pounds demanded by
Patroceni, that was not worth thinking
about, and yet the bare idea of exposure
made him shudder. All at once a gleam of
light flashed across him. If his friend the
Count was so resolute to take ready money

home with him why did he hesitate to goat
once to Wheldrake ? It was obvious he
could command letter terms from him and
be assured of a considerable sum of money
at once, as Cyril was not likely to bargain
much about the price of clearing his good
name. Why then did a man, utterly unscrupulous
as Patroceni had shown himself,
not take his goods to the best market ? It
could be only for one reason. Let him say
what he liked, the Count was no more desirous
of an exposure than he was ; and, if
that was the case, well then he could well
afford to stand by his terms and abide the
issue. Hamilton had made up his mind.
The week passed and he made no sign.

Now the Captain very much under-estimated
the Count's abilities when he came
to the conclusion that Patroceni could not
denounce him without denouncing himself.
To a man of the Count's calibre that was
nothing. He knew of course that hamilton
was tampering with the cards at

Wrottsley, and looked on in an amused
way at the Captain's clumsy manipulation,
perfectly transparent to an adept like Patron
He was quite aware of Hamilton's
method, and knew that it was essential that
one of the servants should he his confederate.
It did not take long for a shrewd
man of the world like the Count to discover
which* Ere he left Wrottsley Patroceni
had possessed himself of the man's name
and address, and knew where to lay his
hands upon him at any time. The Count
flattered himself that, should it suit him to
sell his information to Wheldrake, it would
be possible to keep himself very much in
the background, and figure as a man only
too anxious to repair a gross injustice that
he had been guilty of.

It is a pretty game of brag between two
as unprincipled men as ever preyed upon
society, and that two human lives ran every
chance of wrecking for the gratification of
their rapacity troubled them not a whit.

Patroceni, clever as be was, happened to
be the first to discover a flaw in his game.
When, as the week drew near to a close, he
found he heard nothing from Hamilton,
be thought it high time to hunt out
Wheldrake's address. There was not much
trouble in discovering that. Five minutes'
study of the Blue Book at the Harlequin
told him it ? and further inquiry at the
address told him, to his dismay, that Whelm
had gone abroad. That this was
excessively awkward Patroceni could not
but admit to himself in homely language,
much in vogue with the money-lender of
the metropolis, " It's impossible to do business
with a gentleman you can't see." It is
no use having a secret to sell when the one
man to whom it is worth selling is not
forthcoming. Patroceni knew from experience
that proud, sensitive natures, crushed
beneath such a disaster as had befallen
Wheldrake, were wont to hurry to the
Continent and bury themselves in obscure

travel. He realised the fact as soon as he
called at his rooms and was told that their
master had gone abroad and left no address.
It might be many months, nay, years, before
he again crossed "Wheldrake's path, and
consequently the Count came to the conclusion
that he would do well to drive the
best bargain he could with his esteemed
friend Hamilton. "There would not be
much difficulty about that," murmured the
Count to himself, smiling, " but for one
thing : my dear friend Hamilton is at present
most lamentably destitute of money."

CHAPTER IX.

OSTRACISED.

After hurling his presentiment at the head
of his adversary, "Wheldrake went straight
up to his room ; he was fairly stunned hy
the blow that had befallen him. It was
enough to crush most men. In all the
pride and exultation of success in having
won the hand of the girl he loved, with,
pulses still throbbing at the warm-hearted
congratulations of his friends on his approaching
happiness, he was suddenly
stricken to the dust. A thunderbolt
launched by the hand of the stranger had
stricken him, and left him dishonoured and

disgraced. Already lie realised his terrible
position. A man of the world, he saw
clearly what had happened to him. He
knew that this scandal would not he confined
to Wrottsley. There were far too
many people aware of the shame cast upon
him to admit of that. He knew well how
such stories as his flew round the gossiping-halls
of club-land. Yes, the story of his
shame would be all over London before the
week was out. He was innocent, but who
would believe it ? True, Glanfield had declared
that he held him guiltless, but then
Glanfield was a loyal and thorough friend.
Could he himself have acquitted a man
placed in his position ? No ; it meant ruin,
and nothing else. One chance only remained
to him. He knew that he was the
victim of a conspiracy, and there was a possibility
that some day the story of that conspiracy
might come to light. One thing
was clear, he must leave Wrottsley at once,
and rising from his chair he rang the bell.

It had been a night of high revel at
Wrottsley, and Mr. Jackson and the upper-crust
of the servants' hall had by no means
finished toasting the young couple. At the
sound of his master's bell, Chisel sprang to
his feet and hastened to answer the summons.
An excellent servant was Chisel.
No order whatever could have disturbed his
serenity. He would have obeyed it rapidly,
implicitly, and without questioning, but it
would have been a great mistake to doubt
Chisel's shrewdness on that account. If he
said nothing, he probably knew more about
his master's affairs than any man living, not
excepting his lawyer. But the valet could
not help opening his eyes a little as he
received his master's orders.

Put me out a shooting suit, fill my
cigar-case, and be ready to let me out in a
quarter of an hour. I am going to walk
across to Bottles and catch the night-mail,
Which comes through at four in the morning.
Ten minutes to two," he continued, looking

at Iris watch ; "I have plenty of time to doit.
You will pack up my traps and follow
by the first train in the morning."

"Very good, sir," replied Chisel; and
proceeded without further remark to carry
out his orders and assist his master in
dressing.

After letting him out of the house, Chisel
proceeded downstairs, and, though ordinarily
silent about Wheldrake's affairs, thought
there was no harm in mentioning that he,
Chisel, was going away by the first train in
the morning, upon which it transpired that
the servant of Captain Hamilton had
received similar orders, and that Count
Patroceni had also desired to be called intime
for that strain.

Old Jackson opened his eyes to their
fullest extent when he heard all these particulars.
"Ah!" he said, "there's been
games going on about that buckram business
no end. If young gentlemen want a quiet
hand of cards, well and good — there's ( all-fours

' cribbage and c whist games as
takes a deal of playing, and over which it is
possible to win or lose a deal of money.
These young men have been a going it, as
far as stakes are concerned ; and mind what
I tell you, it's ended in a row, a devil of a
row. I don't know the rights of it, but
there ain't thirteen nines in two packs of
cards — " and here Mr. Jackson favoured the
company with a vinous wink.

Nobody could have possibly suggested
that," said Mr. Chisel, quietly. "What a
ripping hand of cards you do play, Mr.
Jackson, we all know. That our masters
are pretty ignorant on such matters we
all know also, but heaven help their
stupidity; they must know eight nines goto
two packs."

"Perhaps so, and perhaps not," rejoined
old Jackson, pursing up his lips with the air
of a man who could say a good deal if he
liked, "Anyway, there was some on 'em
playing there who didn't understand how

many nines there were to a pack, I'll go
bail."

What do you mean, sir ? " inquired
Wheldrake's valet.

Never mince, Mr. Chisel ; never mind,
sir. I know what I mean, sir. "What is not
to be tackled by young men like you is allas
clear as a trout-stream in summer to a
man of my experience."

"And your opinion, Mr. Jackson, is ?"

inquired the adroit Chisel, keenly curious
to get at the solution of the embroglio.

"That it's time to go to bed," replied
Jackson, with that intense gravity that at.
times endues the quaffer of beakers ;
especially for young men who've got to
call their masters early." And, rising from
his presidential chair, Mr. Jackson proceeded
to light his candle, and warbling,
with clumsy facetiousness, in a cracked
falsetto, " If you're waking call me early ;
call me early, mother dear," the confidential
butler betook himself to his couch.

Like many another wrongfully accused,
"Wh el drake shrunk from contact with his
fellows ; he shunned his friends and carefully
avoided his clubs. He thought that everyone
he met must know the miserable story
of that night at Wrottsley, and in some
measure he was right ; for, thanks to hamilton's
exertions, the tale had travelled
fast and far. He brooded sullenly over the
disgrace that had befallen him. He took a
more morbid view of what he told himself
was his wretched life every day. A strictly
honourable man, the slur cast upon him
attained larger proportions hour by hour.
He was approaching that frame of mind
which sees no solution of its troubles but
the grave, and strong men at such times lay
sacrilegious hands upon that life God has
given them. "It's about over with me," he
thought ; " and, only I hold with the old
Roman philosopher that the suicide is like
the cowardly sentinel who abandons his
post, I'd make an end of it before the sun

goes down. But no, I must face my doom,
as better men have done before me. There's
one chance, darkness may be turned into
light. I cannot help thinking that, in spite
of appearances, Hamilton was privy to
Patroceni's infamous accusation. Let me
think. Ah ! I remember, I threw my note-case
on the table, and left it there some ten
minutes or so before we sat down to cards.
It was possible to tamper with it, no doubt,
though hazardous ; but what motive could
either of the men have in branding me a
cards harper. Surely for men addicted to
play like themselves it was more to their
interest that I should continue to test my
luck than be ostracised from all play. Could
they deem that marriage would make me
give up all that sort of thing ? Did marriage
always interpose a bar to the gambler?
Not a whit, if fiction or fact can be relied
on. Par from having crippled myself, my
luck has borne me through triumphantly sofar.
If I have been no source of profit to

VOL. I. M

these men, whom I met for the first time at
Homburg, that surely must be the sole
grudge they can have against me. But
practised gamblers like Patroceni never
complain when fortune goes against them.
Moreover they always cling to the idea of
taking their revenge, and that is not to be
obtained from a man whom they have virtually
disqualified from ever touching a card
again."

He turned to his letters with a weary
sigh, and the first he opened stabbed him
like a knife. It was from the committee of
one of his clubs, telling him of the disgraceful
story in circulation, and calling upon
him at once to deny it in toto, or at all
events submit some explanation of the affair
for their consideration, adding that they
refused to credit it ; yet, as custodians of the
club's honour, they had no alternative but
to ask him if there was any shadow of truth
m the tale, and to request his version of the
affair. It was but what he had pictured to

himself, and yet this was, so to speak, the
first official notice he had received of being
tabooed, the first solemn declaration that
society had thrust him from among them.
Very clear that England was no place for
him for many a day. Where was he to go ?
Such a story as his would stick to a man allover
the Continent. He must avoid all
beaten tracks, and, above all, association with
his fellows. Henceforth, his travel must be
as isolated as that of the Hebrew wanderer,
condemned to roam the earth for ever in
expiation of the betrayal of his Master.

Well, this letter had to be replied to ; it
was of course but the forerunner of others
of similar import, and what was he to say ?
Nothing ? Affirm his innocence in the face
of the clear proof of his guilt ? Sir Jasper,
a mere looker-on, who had welcomed him asa
son-in-law but a few hours before, and was
moreover an upright, honourable gentleman,
held him guilty. Except Glanfield, where
would he find another to believe n nis inno-
m 2

hence? Once more he sighed wearily in the
bitterness of his spirit as he realised all that
Patroceni and Hamilton — for the more
he brooded over it the more he associated
the two — had brought upon him, and then
he sat down to write the sole answer possible,
that " on his honour he was innocent,
and was unable to account for the cards
found in his note-case." He felt it was the
lamest of refutations to a serious charge
ever penned, but he could not better it.
Men always did, in defiance of all proof to
the contrary, deny cheating at cards, and
the negative was always received with contemptuous
incredulity.

He was right : as the first bill about
Christmas time heralds the avalanche, so
was this notice. That Cyril Wheldrake's
explanation of the terrible story tacked to
his name had been eminently unsatisfactory
to the Committee of the Blenheim flashed
like electricity round club-land, and some
two or three more of these institutions to

which Cyril was affiliated lost no time in
exacting similar explanations. The result
was that Wheldrake was requested to withdraw
from the first-named, and that his
other clubs would follow the example thus
set them hardly admitted of a doubt. He
determined to forestal them, and at once
sent in his resignation to ail such monachal
institutions as bore his name on their books,
accompanied by a vigorous protest of his
innocence of the crime laid to his charge.
That done there remained nothing for him
but to conclude his preparations for leaving
England and then depart.

He had seen none of his old associates
since leaving Wrottsley. He did not know
for certain, but could only conjecture, that
his name and his shame were in all men's
mouths. Two days more and he should begone,
when suddenly Chisel announced that
Mr. Glanfield wished to see him, and, in
answer to his master s morose u Not at

home," simply threw open the door and
admitted that gentleman.

My dear Cyril, how are you ? " inquired
Mr. Glanfield, as he shook hands, and without
waiting for further welcome threw himself
into an arm-chair.

Staunchly as Glanfield had taken his
part, Wheldrake was not a little disconcerted
at his appearance. He frowned angrily at
Chisel, to whom his orders had been
peremptory and precise on the subject of
Not at home to any one'* But Chisel
gazed vaguely in another direction. The
valet was sincerely attached to his master.
He had, as we know by this, a fairly
accurate idea of what did take place that
evening at Wrottsley. He was quite as
sceptical as ever Mr. Glanfield could be
of Wheldrake' s guilt in the affair. One
thing he did see, that his master was gnawing
his heart out, and the man's commonsense
told him that it would be good for

Wheldrake to have a long talk with any
friend he could thoroughly rely upon. This
was the third time Glanfield had called ; on
the first occasion Chisel had implicitly
adhered to his masters orders, on the second
Wheldrake had really been out, hut this
time Chisel had unbosomed himself.

I am told to say * not at home,' " he
replied in answer to Glanfield's inquiry;
but Mr. Wheldrake is upstairs, and in my
opinion it is high time you or some other of
his friends saw him, sir. It's no use my
pretending I don't know there was a rumpus
at Wrottsley. It isn't likely I shouldn't
have heard of it, but this I do know, that it
has knocked my master clean over. He
wants some one, Mr. Glanfield, just to pull
him together and put his head straight."
Chisel was a man of the world, and prided
himself on adapting his conversation to his
auditor ; to Glanfield he talked horse ; to a
bishop he would improvise some mongrel
imitation of " Paley's Evidences." Glanfield

looked upon him as a sharp fellow with a
considerable knowledge of racing. He knew
nothing whatever about it. His master
considered him the best valet in England,
with a dash of Leporello about him. He
was a man of immaculate virtue. Shrewd
and quick-witted, Chisel, after the manner
of his class, was up to a certain point an
excellent servant; pass that, and like his
brethren he had the makings of an intolerably
bad master.

I did not mean to see any one," replied
Wheldrake, with a faint smile, "but I am
glad to have the chance of saying good-bye
to you. I leave England the day after tomorrow.
Nay, I have no choice," he continued,
in answer to a gesture of dissent on
Glanfield's part ; " England has already left
me. The c Blenheim ' have requested me to
resign ; not a man of my acquaintance but
would cut me in the streets, and I — I dare
not resent it. One is not obliged to know
cardsharpers."

Don't talk like that, Cyril. I know
well enough you would never bolt out of
the course. How that accursed bit of juggling
was managed at Wrottsley I don't quite
know, but jugglery it was, I'll swear. We
shall come at the truth of it some day, and
find out why that smooth-tongued Count
desired to ruin you. Now, old man, I want
to talk seriously to you. To go abroad is,
T think, just at present the best thing you
can do. Once you are out of the way it is
very probable Patroceni will show his hand,
and I shall discover what object there was
in forcing you to leave the country, for that
must have been the object of the shameful
combination against you. Can you recall
to mind anything that happened at Homburg
that might account for such a dastardly
vengeance? "

Nothing," rejoined Cyril. " Why the
thing was done, I can't tell; but the how
it was done I think I can account for. Just
before Sir Jasper proposed my health and

Maude's I threw my note-case on the table.
While I was replying, saying c Good night
and so on, there was an opportunity for
tampering with the note-case, for introducing
the cards that ruined me."

That's the clue, Cyril; that's all I want !"
cried Glanfield, quite startled out of his
usual apathy. "That's what puzzled me,
how did they do it ? Now I see how it
could be done, I have no doubt that was
the way it was done. Never you fear, but
I'll get at it at last. I've unravelled a
robbery or two in my time that looked
quite as incomprehensible to start with.
The motive of robbery is usually money ;
in your case it would be either that or
revenge. You say you have done nothing
to call forth the latter, therefore it must bethe
former ; though how they are to make
money out of disgracing you at present beats
me. But, remember, I shall watch them
like a lynx. They can't make money out
of this plant without my discovering it;

and, though it's quite possible they may be
some months before they attempt to trade
on their treachery, sooner or later they will
try to realise. I shall get at it all then. In
the meanwhile, trust me to watch over your
interests, and don't lose faith in me if you
chance to hear I'm on intimate terms with
Hamilton and Patroceni. Good-bye, Cyril,
and God bless you. Go abroad is my advice,
and don't leave an address behind you,
except with me."

You are right !" rejoined Wheldrake. " I
shall not even take Chisel with me to begin
upon. Address, I can't even give you at
present, but I will write to you at the
Blenheim."

Good-bye," rejoined Glanfield, and, with
a mighty hand-grip, the two men parted,
little thinking where the baccarat party were
next to foregather, nor dreaming of the game
at which they were destined to play.

CHAPTER X.

WILL YOU BE OUR GUIDE ?"

Mrs. Eullerton was risrht. Maude was
thoroughly prostrated by the disaster that
had overtaken her. The rapid rupture of
an engagement just announced, and for such
a cause, would be a bitter blow to any girl's
pride, but, with her affections seriously involved
besides, it was terrible. Like her
lover, she also shrank from her friends and
acquaintances. She could not bear the idea
of being pointed at as " that Miss Eversley,
who was engaged to the fellow who was
found with the cards up his sleeve, don't
you know." She firmly believed in Cyril's

innocence, but she had heard from his own
lips that he despaired of proving it. She
could see no gleam of light in the future.
She was a proud girl, and had carried her
head high, but now the sunny tresses were,
to speak metaphorically, trailing in the
dust. Even her father seemed to lose heart,
and have no courage to hold up his head
amongst his fellows, in face of the great
misfortune that had come upon him.

Like wildfire spread the hideous scandal ;
and people, from the amiable motive of not
intruding upon the Eversleys in their
trouble, shunned Wrottsley as if the smallpox
raged within its walls. Maude fancied,
as it is given to mortals to do under such
circumstances, that the very servants regarded
her with pity : that the story was
current through the house she, of course,
knew only too well, and all this was gall
and wormwood to a girl like Maude. Curiously
enough, that card-table story acted
on Sir Jasper and his daughter precisely as

it had done upon Cyril Wheldrake. Although
not quite so quickly, like him they
made up their minds to leave England fora
while. Commiseration in one's grief,
although balm to some natures, is as nitric
acid poured into the gaping wound to
others. Sir Jasper and Maude were of the
kind that fly to the desert when stricken to
the death, and suffer in silence rather than
moan over the misery that has come to
them. Others there are, no doubt, weak,
foolish, contained natures, who find much
relief in unbosoming themselves to every
sympathetic stranger they come across. It
may be hard upon the stranger, but it seems
to afford them much consolation.

And so it came to pass, that, about the
time Wheldrake set forth on his pilgrimage,
the Eversleys, too, meditated foreign travel,
with no more idea of to what parts than
Cyril himself. In both cases it was the
flying from great sorrow, and, despite the
Horatian maxim, that black care sits ever

behind the horseman, it is something to
escape from the friends who pity us.

If Patroceni was considerably taken
aback at the discovery that Wheldrake had
left the country, he was not such a fool as
to suppose that Hamilton was not also
aware of it. He made no effort to see him,
but simply dropped him a note, in which,
quietly pointing out that the week's grace
agreed upon had elapsed, he begged leave to
inform Captain Hamilton that, should his
terms not be complied with in the course of
the following week, he would trouble him —
Captain Hamilton — no more, but endeavour
to make other arrangements.

A very guarded, ambiguous letter, 5 '
muttered the Captain ; " he knows no more
where Wheldrake is than I do, and, even if
he did, it's a very open question whether he
would venture to sell him our secret. I
think I had better not reply to this. Forget
who the swell was who said, ' If you have
any doubt about writing a letter, done ! '

Clever man, though ; it saves trouble, and
rather seems to suit this case, at all events,"
and so Captain Hamilton quietly ignored
his friend's second application.

But Patroceni' s next move not only somewhat
astonished Captain Hamilton, but it
further puzzled the astute Mr. Glanfield.
Patroceni retired once more to the Continent.


Has he gone in pursuit of Wheldrake ?"
muttered Pred Hamilton, when the news
reached him. " Wheldrake, I know, has
left no address ; as far as I can make out,
he has confided his moves to no one. Still,
the foreign police are clever, and Patroceni,
I fancy, thoroughly understands how to
utilise their talents. To run down Whelm
may take him some time ; for Whelm
to return and establish his innocence
may take him some time longer. Everyday,
nay every hour, that a man leaves a
charge like this hanging over his head
makes the dissipating of it more difficult.

No, I will play my own hand without
further regard to my confederate. Let him
do his worst ; if it is not clone quickly I shall
care very little for what he can allege
against me. Let my uncle only stick to the
intentions expressed in this letter and my
game seems easy. c Will I join them in a
trip to the Continent and be their cicerone?
I should rather think I would! Free
quarters, and a run on the Continent, exactly
suits this child, with the beastly spring
weather we are coming to. I can't afford
to really hunt this year, so I'll just realise
the two or three horses I have right off, and,
if I don't bring Maude to book before we
get back, why, then I'll say I never deserve
another opening. I have only one thing to
think of, what places will be most agreeable
for me (for, of course, it's all one to them
where they go). I certainly don't want to
come across Patroceni, but even if we do
he's bound to give us a wide berth after the
Wrottsley business."

VOL. I. N

As for Glanfield, lie was considerably
puzzled at Patroceni's departure, and during
his considerable experience of the seamy
side of human nature Glanfield failed to
recall any case in which such a fell accusation
as that launched at Cyril Wheldrake
had not either been based on a fact or
actuated by a powerful motive. He had
discarded fact as a thing past belief ; there
remained only the motive. What was it ?
Whatever his motive might be, how was it
possible to compass it if Patroceni left England,
and that the Count had left England
Glanfield had clearly convinced himself.
He was completely mystified ; had he been
less loyal to Cyril he must have yielded to
the evidence of his senses, and concluded
that Wheldrake, in a moment of madness,
had set himself to coerce fortune. Well,
you cannot keep your eye upon any one with
whose whereabouts you are unacquainted.
Mr. Glanfield, who had a great idea of himself
in the character of the amateur detective,

acquiesced in circumstances, and waited
patiently for what the next move might be
in the adversary's game; but the weeks
slipped by without a sign of Patroceni.
The Wheldrake card-case, as it was termed,
gradually faded from men's minds. The
winter was passed and gone, and the beginning
of the London season had come, One
day Mr. Glanneld received a note from Mrs.
Pullerton, informing him that the little
house in Hans Place was once more tenanted
by its mistress, and requiring him to call at
his earliest convenience, as she had much to
say to him. " Really matter of importance,"
wrote the widow. " I might even ask you
to forego your favourite pursuit, and see
whether it was not possible that Epsom
and Ascot could be carried on without
you."

There it is," said Mr. Glanneld, as he

finished reading the note. u That's just

like a woman. The serious business of a

man's life, if she wants to be taken to a

n 2

public entertainment, must be put upon one
side. I know from former experience what
Mrs. Eullerton calls matter of serious importance.
Can't get a box for the Lyceum !
Wants an escort to the Old Masters, or
something of that sort. Bless you, if you
only give 'em their heads,' ' continued Mr.
Glanfield, meditatively, " it's impossible to
say what you won't find yourself entered
for ! Cat shows, poultry shows, the Lord
knows what ! "

But although Mr. Glanfield might grumble,
he never dreamt of not attending to any
behest either of Mrs. Fullerton's or of
Maude's. He had known the widow before
her marriage, and there had been, indeed, a
slight flirtation between them in youth,
which might possibly have blossomed into
matrimony had Glanfield at that time
possessed means to support a wife, but till
his father's death he had been a man with
no profession, and but such moderate income
as that father chose to allow him. As for

Maude he had known her from a child.
She had conferred upon him the brevet rank
of uncle at an early period of their acquaintance,
with all the privileges attached to the
character, which included the providing her
with a perpetuity of toys, sweetmeats, &c.
and occasionally taking her to a pantomime.

Mr. Glanfleld lost no time in attending to
Mrs. Pullerton's summons, and was greeted
on his appearance with much cordiality by
the widow.

"This, really, is a matter of great importance
that I wish to consult you about.
Sit down there, don't fidget, and I will
give you some tea in the course of a few
minutes."

If there was one fault Mr. Glanfleld could
claim exemption from it was fidgeting.
Nobody ever took the vicissitudes of daily-life
with more calmness than he did. He
quietly established himself in an easy chair,
and waited till it should please the fair
Pullerton to unbosom herself.

Mr. Glanfield," said the widow, after a
slight pause, "Sir Jasper has made up his
mind for a run abroad. This season London
is not destined to be graced by our presence ;
but we are all neophytes at Continental
travel, and I am deputed to ask you to do
us a great favour. Will you be our guide,
counsellor, and friend ? We are willing to
put ourselves entirely in your hands, go
where you will, if we only can persuade
you to take charge of us."

Give me a moment or two to think,
Mrs. Fullerton?" replied Glanfield, "and
then, perhaps, you wouldn't object to my
asking one or two questions."

No, sir ; taking charge of myself and
Maude, I am sure, is a somewhat serious
business," rejoined the widow, with a saucy
toss of the head, "though no doubt there
are men who would consider themselves
equal to the responsibility."

Do you suppose Maude still cares for
Cyril Wheldrake ? "

I'm puzzled. I fairly own I'm puzzled.
I did think that I could follow the twists
and turns of a girl's mind. I'm sure I
ought to, for I twisted and turned enough
myself when I was a girl."

Yes, fillies are apt to be uncertain,"
rejoined Glanfield, gravely. " You never
can tell when they will try and when they
won't."

Mr. Cranfield' ' retorted the widow
sharply, " for about the thousandth time I
must beg you to express yourself in intelligible
language. Filets are in my mind
associated with cookery."

(i Beg pardon ! What I mean to say is
young women are difficult to understand. I
can't tell, for instance, whether Miss Beverley
is trying to forget Wheldrake or to remember
him."

Difficult to understand; not in the least,
if you men were not so absorbed in your
own ridiculous pursuits that you neglect the

most important and interesting study of a
man's life — and that is woman, sir."

Oh, I don't pretend to understand that
sort of thing myself," replied Glanfield,
slowly ; " but it seems to me they save us
the trouble of any profound study nowadays."


He knows more about us than I gave
him credit for," said Mrs. Eullerton to herself.
" I confess I am beaten, Mr. Cranfield,"
she continued, aloud. " Whether
Maude has put Cyril Wheldrake away from
her thoughts or no I cannot make up my
mind."

u I should think she had," retorted Cranfield,
a little bitterly. " I never saw a more
decided revolution in the betting — any one
can see Hamilton's first favourite now."

Just what a man would think ; but
favourites don't always win, I've heard ; at
all events the apparent favourite doesn't
always carry off the prize when a gifts

heart is in question," rejoined Mrs. Puller-ton,
sharply.

Perhaps not. Still, Wheldrake, innocent
as I believe him, could hardly hope a
girl would stand to him in such a struggle."

He must be innocent about the working
of a ghTs heart as yet, if he thought she
would do anything else," said the widow,
with a derisive laugh. (i The only question
was, — did she love him ? I know she did, I
think she does."

i( But an accusation such as was brought
against Wheldrake "

Is nothing in the eyes of a woman who
likes him. Cheat at cards ! Why, we all
do if we can. We don't like being found
out, but we don't mind doing it."

"We've rather got out of the course,
haven't we?" observed Glanfield, mildly,
perfectly aware that the discussion of card-table
moralities with a lady was equivalent
to the discussion of the law of property with
an Irish Member of Parliament.

Got out of the course," exclaimed the
widow with the prettiest affectation of utter
bewilderment.

u I mean, rather strayed from the subject,"
replied Glanfield, hurriedly.

Oh dear, Mr. Glanfield, why don't you
do yourself justice. Show us the classical
acquirements I know you possess, instead of
deluging us with the Racing Calendar."

"Classical acquirements don't win Derby
or anything else in these clays. "When a
fellow quotes i Horace ' in the House no
other fellow understands him. Pity a young
woman like you, Mrs. Fullerton, don't go
with the times "

Well," retorted the widow, furiously,
my dresses come from Worth's, and if that
is not going with the times I should very
much like to know what is, and where it
can be done cheaper."

Beg pardon ! We're all wrong again.
There's not a woman in London looks better
than you when you're stripped. No, I

don't mean that," exclaimed Mr. Glanfield,
looking much confused, and as he half rose
stepping into his hat. " I mean when
you've got your clothes off. Xo, I don't
mean that," almost shrieked Mr. Glanfield,
as in a tremor of agitation he reseated himself
and endeavoured to do what never was
done vet, straighten that lacerated hat out

■I * o

again. " Xo, no ; I mean when you've
thrown off your wraps, opera cloak, and all
that "

It was as well you did explain, sir,"
replied the widow, nearly suffocated with
laughter. " Why on earth don't you talk
ordinary English like any one else."

Shouldn't he much like any one else if I
did," replied Glanfield, sententiously ; " that
is, any one in good society. I do my best,
Mrs. Eullerton, hut old Johnson wouldn't
himself be in it in these days."

Never mind old Johnson. Nobody ever
reads him. But you do think I know how
to dress," said the widow, coquettishly.

Rather, and I flatter myself I'm a judge
of when you're properly groomed and pitched
out "

Groomed and pitched out ! what does
the man mean ? Mr. Glanfield, you are incorrigible."


No, I'm not. I apologise. So very odd
you don't understand modern English."

Very odd ! Pray go on, sir," rejoined
Mrs. Pullerton, petulantly.

Of course I know you are about the
best dressed, best turned-out woman of my
acquaintance," said Glanfield, quietly.

And the general effect is "

Almost depressing," replied Glanfield,
drily; " you see yon re so dreadful lovely
I am almost afraid to speak to you."

Pshaw, what nonsense you talk ! As
if a woman wouldn't always listen to a man
who expressed admiration for herself. But
can we depend on you for this tour ? "

Most certainly," replied Glanfield, with
a dubious glance at his hat. "You and

Maude can always do that," he continued,
as he feebly endeavoured to rectify the little
accident to his headgear. " In the meantime
I'll say good-bye."

Good-bye, Mr. Glanfield, and if I might
suggest anything it would be a visit to your
hatter's, as your unaided exertions will never

ai

make a hat of that article again," and with
a ripple of laughter which sent Glanfield
hurriedly out of the room the widow extended
her hand in a vain attempt to say
good-bye to her discomfited knight.

CHAPTER, XL

JACKSON HAS HIS SUSPICIONS.

"Well," exclaimed Mr. Glanfield, when
he found himself in the street, "here's a
pretty go ; I haven't missed seeing the Derby
since I was eighteen, and here's Mrs, Puller-ton
goes and upsets the continuity of the
calendar. What put it into her head that
I am a competent courier ? I don't understand
foreign money and know generally
nothing about foreign travel ; and, hang it,
I've got a pony on ' Queen of the May,' and
shan't know before midsummer whether
she's won the Oaks, I suppose."

Immersed in such reflections, Glanfield

leisurely made his way to the Blenheim,
where he was at once hailed by a little knot,
who were evidently discussing some subject
with considerable animation in the bay
window of the morning room.

Here's Jim Glanfielcl can tell us all
about it," exclaimed one of them. " What's
the truth about this business of Wheldrake's.
You were there, Jim, and know what really
took place. I'm told he's written to the
Committee and taken his name off the books,
but, beyond stating that he is innocent,
vouchsafes no explanation. He's one of
the straightest fellows I know, and I'd as
soon suspect him of playing tricks with the
pasteboard as any of the lot here of nailing
my watch."

And, on my honour, I believe you'd be
right, Lacy. Wheldrake's case for the present
is hopeless, but I hold him thoroughly
innocent. Who put the cards into his note-case
I can't venture to guess, but they
weren't put there by him, I'll swear. However,

don't let us talk about it ; it's a good
fellow ruined from sheer treachery I'm convinced,
and the day will come when we shall
get at it."

But this little knot in the bow window
were by no means to be pacified by that
brief statement. Wheldrake was a very
popular man, and his companions, like Lacy,
were loath to believe him guilty of such a
crime. They insisted on cross-examining
Glanfield, and gradually drew from him the
whole history of that luckless evening's
baccarat, but they one and all shook their
heads at his narration. Anxious as they all
were to find some probable explanation, they
could not but admit that when extra cards
are found in a man's note-case the presumption
is that he placed them there in default
of any evidence to the contrary. As to
Glanfield, having once stated his positive
conviction of his friend's innocence, he abstained
from further comment. He answered
briefly, but willingly, every question that

was put to him, and was evidently relieved
when his interlocutors ceased their inquiries.
Prom that time men shook their heads over
Cyril Wheldrake ; it was very sad, hut the
evidence was very conclusive. Patroceni
most of them had never heard of, but hamilton
was well-known, and that he had introduced
the Count at Wrottsley was deemed
sufficient proof of Patroceni' s position in
his own country. It was not likely that
Pred Hamilton would introduce a man
of doubtful antecedents into his uncle's
house, and the old insular prejudice existent
at the beginning of the century against the
foreigner has long disappeared.

There was no one in London perhaps more
thoroughly nonplussed by Wheldrake' s disappearance,
for he had carried out the intention
he announced to Glanfield, than Mr.
Chisel. A night or two after Jim's visit
Wheldrake informed that worthy of his intention
of leaving for the Continent by the
morning train ; that he, Chisel, would be left

VOL. I.

behind, but was to hold himself in readiness
to join his master on the receipt of orders to
that effect. The valet, who was not only
sincerely attached to Wheldrake, but who
foresaw a somewhat dullish time before him
in London, pleaded earnestly that he might
also go ; but his master was peremptory on
the point, telling him that, if anything he
(Chisel) deemed of importance should transpire,
he was at once to communicate it to
Mr. Glanfield. Cyril little foresaw when he
took his ticket for the Continent that Mr.
Glanfield would speedily follow in his footsteps,
and that he was leaving his interests
in the hands of a man not destined to be in
the way to attend to them, — an unfortunate
accident, as he was destined eventually to
find out.

Now the man who really had the clue to
the mystery, and who, if he had told what
he knew, could have given Glanfield the
key to it all, was old Jackson ; but old
Jackson was heavy of thought, and, astonished

as he had been by that discovery of
supplementary nines on the table, had as
yet never been able to put his puzzle together.
To any man accustomed to play cards
it would have been obvious at once that,
whoever the introducer of those extra cards
might be, he must have had a confederate
amongst the servants. Had that commonplace
truth dawned upon Jackson's mind
what could have been simpler for him than
to ascertain which servant it was who habitually
sorted the cards and restored them to
their place in the box ? "Whoever that man
was he must have invariably taken away
those extra nines, thereby restoring the
packs to their natural condition, but all this
never occurred to the old man. That those
extra nines weren't right he was quite aware
of; that there was something wrong going
on at the evening's card-playing he was also,
as he told Sir Jasper, perfectly certain, but
it was quite beyond him to put two and two
together this way. What puzzled him was
o2

child's play to Patroceni, and to discover
Hamilton's confederate the work of an
hour or two. Indeed he pretty well knew
who the suborned footman was before the
explosion took place.

But to Jackson this was by no means so
clear. The old man was anxious to do what
was right. He knew, as all the house did,
that there had been a row over the card-playing;
but as to the exact particulars of
that fracas they were all in ignorance. He
was devoted to Miss Maude, as indeed were
all the servants at Wrottsley. He thought
very highly of Wheldrake, and was delighted
at the idea that Cyril was to marry his young
mistress ; but then again for years he and
Sir Joseph's retainers had been accustomed
to hold "the Captain" in great veneration.
He wasn't, perhaps, quite such a nailer with
a gun as Parson Pilcher, and it might be
when it came to a question of racing that
Mr. Glanfield knew a bit more than he did - f
but still, take it all round, in the vernacular

of the stable-yard, " the Captain was a
clipper.' ' Free-handed with his sovereigns,
Fred Harnmerton always was — impecunious
unfortunates of this kind always are ; and
Harnmerton quite justified their opinions
insomuch that he was a fairly good all-round
sportsman. As for his gambling, Wrottsley
knew little of that, but that the young
gentleman should like what they termed
just a flutter " with the cards was a thing
the old servants had been brought up to
expect. Such a case as the present had
certainly never occurred there before in
their experience, but suspect the Captain,
either Mr. Wheldrake or Mr. Glanfield, they
couldn't, and, therefore, naturally arrived at
the conclusion that " that there farrier
was at the bottom of it." The real delinquent
in the meantime held his tongue ; he
lived in fear and trembling. He had been
well paid for what he had done, and differed
from his fellow-servants only in this — instead
of thinking that that confounded foreigner

was the offender, lie lived in grievous apprehension
that Patroceni had got to the bottom
of it. Still, the more the butler pondered
over those nines the more it gradually
dawned on him that it was probably not the
only occasion on which they had been used
so freely. Of a slow-thinking, bucolic nature,
it was long before he thoroughly mastered
this idea, and even then it wasn't until
talking it over,- — whilst consuming a pint
of mulled port with Mrs. Smithson, the
housekeeper, — that an observation of that
lady's drew attention to the circumstance.

Mr. Jackson," said she, patting out the
brown silk dress in which she w r as wont to
array herself when she had ascertained that
the dinner was properly dished up, "if
that superfluity of nines was customary,
who was it put them packs straight in the
morning?"

"Mrs. Smithson," rejoined the butler,
fi a woman of genius you always was, I know;
but by the Lord, mari, you're a clinker?

that's what you are. You ve about hit it,
you have." And old Jackson slapped his
hand on his thigh, as his manner was when
he considered he had made a point.

"I don't think I am quite a fool' said
Mrs. Smithson, both beaming and bridling
at her companion's encomiums; " but which
of the young good-for-nothings (and the lamp-chimneys
they break and the glass-cloths
they use no one can imagine) it was that
used to put these cards right must be matter
easy to ascertain."

Bight you are, mari. Dead on a fact,
as Parson Pilcher is on a rabbit. I'll get
hold of it before this time tomorrow, and
as you say, Mrs. Smithson — or was about to
say (just one more glass, mari, before we
says good-night) — there's a young man in
this house who that there foreign Count has
utterly corrupted, and drag the truth out of
him we must. They are apt to be uppish,
these juniors; but I think, my dear mari, we
know two people who can keep 'em in their

places," and with a leer, in which the
strength of the port wine negus was visibly
obvious, Mr. Jackson wished the housekeeper
a good night more affectionately than
was called for.

Viewed through the general atmosphere
of the wine-cup things are apt to seem quite
easy of accomplishment which the quiet
consideration of morning regards in a very
different light, and old Jackson was not
quite the man to investigate a delicate
question. He was imbued with an overwhelming
sense of his ow t n sagacity, and
though anxious to expose the " farrier,"
and, to use his own expression, put the
saddle on the right horse, he would have
scouted the idea of taking any one's advice
upon what appeared to him now such a
very simple matter. It was just that apparent
simplicity that constituted the difficulty.
He ascertained without any trouble
the next morning who it was that habitually
resorted the packs and restored them

to the card-box ; but William, the footman
in question, was quite positive as to never
having found a card too many while doing
so. He was very clear about it indeed, declaring
the two packs sorted out perfectly even
every morning, and that it was a sheer impossibility
that a single extra card could
have escaped his notice. It was now r that
Jackson showed his utter incompetence to
fulfil the role of detective. Thoroughly
convinced that he had found the culprit, he
threatened him with all sorts of penalties
and denunciation unless he made a clean
breast of it, and at once confessed his collusion
with Count Patroceni. It was in vain
the unfortunate William protested his innocence
and adhered to his statement. Jackson,
a little after the pattern of our own
police, having made up his mind that this
was the guilty person, refused to entertain
any other view of the affair, and shut his
eyes to what would have occurred at once
to Glanneld and did occur to Patroceni,

namely, that William was not the first
person who ran over those cards in the
morning. Hamilton might not be an
artist of the first power, but he was not
quite such a bungler as to select for his
confederate the man upon whom, in case
of a disturbance, suspicion must infallibly
fall.

Steadily persisting in his suspicion, Jackson
drove the unfortunate William to the
verge of frenzy. What he had done was
unknown to the household, but that he was
the committer of some dark but undiscovered
crime was a fixed fact with them all,
from Mrs. Smithson and the butler down
to the scullery maid, and that odd boy who
usually does most of all his fellow-servants'
work. The luckless footman went about with
a criminal taint surrounding him. Jackson
wagged his head in portentous silence
when questioned, as over an impenitent
thief. In his own class the hapless William
was as distinctly tabooed as Cyril Whelm

and when, at the expiration of a
scarcely endurable fortnight, he gave warning,
Mr. Jackson predicted a speedy accession
to the denizens of Portland Prison, and
trusted that might be the worst that should
come to William in this world, winding up
with objurgations upon the enormity of not
making such reparation for offending " as
owning up to your fault like a man."

The family had by this left Wrottsley,
and Sir Jasper was staying in town till such
time as all their preparations for a lengthened
tour abroad should be completed ; but Mrs.
Fullerton was not the woman to depart on
any expedition of the kind without a due
assortment of dresses, and those haying experiences
of a dressmaker's fulfilment of her
obligations during the London season will
know there is much uncertainty about the
concluding of such arrangements. So Sir
Jasper and his belongings still dawdled on
in London, and Maude had to play that

bitter part which has been played so many
times by maidens whose love-tale has gone
askew, namely, facing society with un-bleaching
brow and the sunny smile of a
girl to whom life is without a care.

Ah, me ! if we could but see behind the
well-bred, easy air that it is conventional to
wear amongst those who are deemed the
spoiled children of fashion I think we should
often own that the game was by no means
worth the candle. That girl in such bewitching
costume, glorious eyes, and lovely
complexion, is haunted by the threats of a
termagant milliner, who vows, unless she
has unimpeachable testimony of her client's
betrothal, she will have either her money or
proceed to extremities at the end of the
season. That man with a cigar in his mouth
and a gardenia in his button-hole, who has
raised his hat a score of times between Hyde
Park Corner and Albert Gate, is gravely
wondering how much longer it will be before

that menaced execution will be levied

on his goods and chattels in that pretty

little house in May Air by the inexorable

Queen's taxes, whose demands he sees no

possibility of satisfying. Yes, life is not all

so rosy when we are allowed a peep behind

the scenes, and many of those that seem

objects of envy have but a gruesome time,

did we but know it.

Hamilton strictly carried out the tactics
«/

he had confided to Patroceni. He was unwearied
in his attendance on his cousin,
and, solicited or not, Maude rarely appeared
in public without him as her cavalier. The
girl thought nothing of it. She had been
used to him all her life, and Fred hamilton
was far too astute a manoeuvrer to make
love to her at present. He treated her
always with a marked deference calculated
to convey to lookers-on that he was a lover
without giving the girl herself the slightest
pretext for regarding him in that light.
Nobody understood better than Hamilton

the compromising of a girl in this wise,
and so cleverly was it done that even
Jim Glanfield began to question whether
Maude had not, despite Mrs. Fullerton's
dictum, put Cyril thoroughly away from
her thoughts.

CHAPTER XII.

STARTING FOR THE CONTINENT.

Jackson was a man of slow conception, and
the incubation of his ideas was no speedy
matter. He was gradually coming to the
conclusion that it was his duty to write to
Sir Jasper and tell him of the discovery he
had made, when he was startled by the discovery
that the supposed culprit's month's
notice was up, and by his taking a summary
departure. This once more upset the old
butler, leaving him another knotty point to
decide — namely, whether it was worth his
while to communicate his discovery now
that the delinquent had disappeared, and

the result of a prolonged conference with
Mrs. Smithson was that he had better keep
his suspicions to himself. Mrs. Smithson,
who was a tolerably shrewd woman, pointed
out that Miss Maude's engagement was
completely broken off, and she rather
doubted their ability to put things straight
again ; and, at all events, it was very difficult
for them to tell the whole story in a
letter, and that completely settled the case.
Mr. Jackson had a great idea of his own
eloquence, but no great confidence in his
epistolary powers, and so the thing was postponed
till such time as he should see Sir
Jasper again.

But it soon became evident to Mrs.
Puller ton that Maude, although she made
no sign of moping, and went out everywhere,
was, nevertheless, suffering a great
deal. All the spring seemed to have gone
out of the girl's life. Garden-party or
dance, play or cricket-match, seemed to
V interest her no longer. She, who hitherto

had enjoyed life so keenly, seemed now to
have lost all zest for it, and though she lore
it bravely her aunt could see that what she
specially shrank from was the meeting of so
many people to whom the whole story was
known, and who inadvertently alluded to it
within her hearing. The scandal about
Wheldrake, like most such stories in the
London world, had been but a nine days'
wonder, but it was still fresh in men's
minds; and the appearance of that pretty
Miss Eversley so constantly recalled it to
people's recollection, and provoked comment
thereon, which, though not intended for
Maude's hearing, seldom escaped her ears.
Mrs. Fullerton was both very fond and
proud of her niece, and rapidly came to the
conclusion that change of scene, or rather of
people, was what Maude required — that the
girl would be better amongst strangers,
where she was not continually reminded of
her lover's shame; and, having made up
her mind on that point, hastened the ar-vol.
i. p

arrangements for departure as much as recalcitrant
dressmakers would permit. No
sooner did Hamilton discover that the
hour of departure drew near than he took
speedy steps to enrol himself of the party.
It would have answered his purpose infinitely
better if Maude had remained in town
through the whole of the season, in order
that he might appear continually by her
side. He was not going to neglect his
opportunity. No one knew better than he
that many a girl's hand, though not her
heart, is won on the rebound. It might not
be of any use to speak to Maude yet, but he
did not intend to leave the field open to anyone
else. He had run that risk already,
and hardly liked to think what it had cost
him to oust that successful rival. Patroceni
was, he knew, a very dangerous and skilful
man to have arrayed against him, and more
especially so when he held one in his power ;
and Hamilton knew the Count too well
to suppose that, though he had disappeared

for the time, he had by any means relinquished
his intention of sharing the spoils.
Well, there was no question about dividing
the plunder at present, though that, when
there was, Patroceni would re-appear upon
the scene, he felt morally certain. Indeed,
Hamilton would probably have acceded
to the Count's original request had it been
in his power to procure the first instalment
of the sum demanded.

Calling one day at Mrs. Fullerton's, Mr.
Glanfield, on being ushered into the ,
found it occupied solely by
Maude. He had never seen the girl alone
since the fracas at Wrottsley, and, as maybe
supposed, the incident of that night had
never been alluded to between them.

Quick, Mr. Glanfield," she exclaimed,
as she motioned him to a chair, " tell me at
once what you have heard ? "

Do you mean about our departure ?"

"No, about Cyril. Tell me everything.
I know nothing whatever about him since
p2

that terrible night. They never mention
his name to me. What has he done ?
What has become of him ? If I catch the
echo of his name in society, voices are immediately
stilled in my presence ; but even
from the little I have gathered T know that
he is cast out from amongst us."

I fancy," replied Glanfield, " I was
about the last person Cyril saw before he
left London. He was utterly crushed by
the disgrace that had fallen upon him.
You have heard the truth; he is socially
ruined. He told me he was going abroad,
and promised to write ; but as yet I have
not heard from him. Is it impertinent to
ask if you still take an interest in him?"

That I should still take an interest in a
man who stood to me in the relation that
Cyril once did is only natural. That I should
feel anything more," continued the girl, "is
scarcely likely. He has never condescended
to let me hear from or of him since that
night. I said I believed in him in spite of

appearances. He apparently believed neither
in himself nor me."

My clear Miss Eversley, I assure you

but at this juncture the door opened,

and Mrs. Fullerton entered the room.

Good morning, Mr. Glanfield," she exclaimed,
gaily. " I really do believe I shall
be ready to start next week. I arranged it
all with Jasper yesterday. We are to have
a good long lounging tour all over the Continent
— Germany, Switzerland, and Italy.
We shall not get back before the beginning
of September."

Ah ! " said Glanfield anxiously, " the
besoin£? ! Now do let us be sure that it
is the beginning."

Why dear me," retorted Mrs. Fullerton,
surely the partridges can wait for another
week or two."

Oh, aunt," said Maude, smiling, " I
should have thought you would have understood
Mr. Glanfield better."

Partridges ! " exclaimed that gentleman
contemptuously ; " yes, they will wait fast
enough ; but the St. Leger you see is a
fixed feast, and "

You really are irreclaimable," said Mrs.
Pullerton. IC You never can for an instant
put your favourite pursuit on one side."

It is something to have a pursuit in
these days, and not be one of the many who
have got nothing to do, be it work or pleasure."


I suppose you will be ready to accompany
us ? "

Always ready at twenty-four hours'
notice to go anywhere," rejoined Glanfield.
Have you arranged matters with Captain
Hamilton, for I'm told he is coming
too."

Oh yes, he is only awaiting orders. I
am looking forward to Italy so much ; I
have never been there."

Maude gave a slight shiver. She could

but recollect how Cyril had talked of Italy
for their bridal tour. The name also attracted
Glanfield's attention, and it occurred
to him as just possible that they might come
across Patroceni in those parts, and in that
case learn more of his antecedents than anyone
seemed to know at present ; and then,
while Mrs. Fullerton was describing to
Maude a travelling costume destined to desolate
all hearts, Glanfield recalled Whelm
presentiment, and wondered if he
should be present at the next game between
them, should it ever be played. No doubt
the Continent was wide, but the beaten
tracks of travel are pretty much the same in
all countries, and he did not suppose their
party would deviate from them. He then
rose and bade the two ladies good-bye.

Mrs. Fullerton's spirits were infectious ;
and, what with her aunt's vivacity and the
idea of leaving town, Maude felt more like
her old self than she had done since the rupture
of her engagement. It was very possible

that there was some lurking hope in
her breast that in the course of their wanderings
they might come across Cyril Whelm
; and, although she spoke frankly
enough to Jim Glanfield of her resentment
at his silence, she knew at the bottom of
her heart that she was true as ever to her
love.

When Glanfield arrived at his rooms he
was not a little astonished to find Whelm
servant waiting to see him.

Come in, Chisel," he exclaimed. "What
is it ? I suppose you have some news of
your master ? "

No, sir; indeed I was in hopes to hear
something of him from you. Mrs. Puller-ton's
maid, you may have noticed her, very
clean about the ancles, sir. Wei], we got
rather friendly down at Wrottsley. She
corresponds with some of the servants down
there, and she tells me there's been a bit of
a kick-up at the hall."

"Why, Sir Jasper's in town. Some row

amongst the servants, I suppose. Really
this doesn't concern me."

No, sir, but she says that affair of my
master's was at the bottom of the whole
business."

"How the devil can that be ; unless," he
added thoughtfully, " there were two sides
in the servants' hall, as there were in the
drawing-room ? Do you mean to say you
know no more about it than this ? "

I can tell you no more than that, sir,"
replied Chisel.

Fiddlestick ! " said Glanfield. " It's
no use coming to me with the account of
every idle quarrel that occurs in the servants'
hall. Just as you and I hold your
master innocent, so no doubt there was a
diversity of opinion both above and below
stairs. That something of the story would
leak out there could be no doubt. It has
been as plainly told in the papers as editors
thought safe, though, of course, the real
facts of the case are only known to those

present. Of course you know why your
master has gone abroad ? "

Yes, sir ; there was a rumour of something
up even before I left. Don't you
think it advisable that I should go down to
Wrottsley and see what I can make of it ? "

No," rejoined Glanfield, sharply, " most
decidedly not."

Jim had great belief in himself as an
amateur detective, and knew there was
nothing so fatal as calling in incompetent
subordinates who usually foil the scent. He
felt sure that they would do little good until
Patroceni showed his hand. As to this
squabble in the servants' hall at "Wrottsley
they could always get at that if there should
happen to be anything worth knowing in it.

Well, sir, you know best," replied Chisel,
ruefully ; " but you're going away in a few
days, and then where am I to look for
orders ? "

To your master of course ; he told you
when he left that you were to wait here and

look after things till he sent for you. That's
clear enough ; when he wants you no doubt
you'll hear," retorted Glanfield, curtly.

Then I suppose there's nothing for me
to do at all, sir," responded Chisel, in
crushed tones.

Nothing but what I tell you. Wait for
orders ; " and with a nod of his head Cranfield
dismissed the valet.

CHAPTER XIII.

WHELDRAKE FALLS INTO STRANGE
COMPANY.

The London season, with all its glitter and
gossip, is a thing of the past. The Eversleys
and their party have now been abroad for
some time, and, except Sir Jasper's bankers,
no one seems to know their exact whereabouts.
Of Wheldrake nothing has been
heard since his departure, and Mr. Chisel is
still awaiting those orders which seem destined
never to come. Seated at the door of
one of the small pavilions that stand within
the grounds of the Villa Realee is Count
Patroceni, enjoying a cigarette and looking
lazily over the Bay of Naples. On the table

by his side stands his coffee : as he continues
to smoke with half-closed eyes a
more indolent-looking gentleman could
scarcely have been found.

Ah," he said, with a smile, to himself,
"people don't mean much as a rule by
general invitations, but I hear Sir Jasper
Eversley and his family are wandering about
this part of the world, and it won't be my
fault if he does not pay me a visit. It is
very curious that I should have been unable
to trace "Wheldrake. I have good friends
among the police, and better means of procuring
information than most people, yet I
have not been able to hear any thing of him
since he left London. It is odd — it is worse,
it is disappointing ; for not only have I important
business to transact with him, but I
also have that little account to settle with
my friend Captain Hamilton : such ingratitude
I can bear from no one. Ho,
Matteo!" And the Count rapped his cane
on the table.

The swarthy proprietor of the pavilion
rapidly emerged from the building, in
answer to the Count's summons.

Ah, Excellent ! " he exclaimed, in a
manner almost servile, "it is like the refreshing
dew to see you once again. May
your devoted follower trust that your Excellency
is in good health ? What can I do
for you?"

Have you any news for me ? Any one
worth knowing, for instance, coming my
way?"

Ah, yes, signor," replied Matteo, "there
are a rich English lord and his party who
have just arrived, who talk about making an
excursion in your direction, whom you and
I would gladly welcome."

"Ha! when did they arrive?" inquired
the Count.

They only arrived in Naples two days
ago ; but don't speak too loud Excellent,
or you will wake the Englishman, who is
sleeping inside there."

An Englishman ? What Englishman ?"
asked Patroceni, lowering his voice ; " does
he "belong to the English lord's party?"

No, signor," replied Matteo, softly, " he
is one of these travelling English ; he arrived
here some two hours ago, on foot, complained
of being tired, asked for a room,
and has gone to sleep."

I have been too much in that country
lately," muttered the Count, " to risk meeting
a possible acquaintance — at all events,
just now. You must find out when they
start. Matteo," he continued, " I will send
up Giovanni to hear your news, and also to
keep an eye on this stranger, though I don't
suppose he is of much consequence. I will
let myself out through the back of the
house : I don't want as yet to encounter any
of this English party."

"Ah, he is a wonderful man, his Excellency!"
ejaculated Matteo, drawing a deep
breath expressive of his deep admiration for
the Count. " These English ! It is picturesque,

no doubt, dining with the signor
up yonder," and he jerked his fingers
significantly in the direction of Monte St.
Angelo, " but it is expensive ; none of my
profession dare send in bills like his."

A few minutes more and the Englishman
of whom Matteo had spoken came out of
the pavilion ; and had Patroceni delayed his
departure those few minutes he would have
found himself face to face with the very
man he was so anxious to see.

"I hope the signor is refreshed by his
siesta," said Matteo, bowing, as he proceeded
to clear away the debris of the
Count's coffee.

Thank you, my good host," said Whelm
as he threw himself into a seat. "Get
me a bottle of wine, and get me something
to eat. It is hard," he muttered to himself,
as Matteo disappeared to fulfil the order,
to be looked askance at by all my friends,
socially blasted, and from no fault of my
own. Men wreck their lives from their own

vice and folly ; but I am the innocent
victim of the foulest treachery ! I wonder
what has become of them all ! Can that
paragraph be true that I saw in one of the
society papers, that she is about to marry
Hamilton ? Do women ever really love
us ? A few mouths back, and I should have
laughed at the man who questioned it. In
my hour of agony, when this terrible charge
was first, to all appearance, proved against
me, Maude refused to believe it. Swore she
would never doubt me, come what might ;
and now that paper says she is about to
marry Hamilton. I have heard men say
women never sorrow about us long, but I
did think Maude would have felt my ruin a
little longer. No, Maude, my dearest, I
may by this have faded from your mind.
The memory of our former love may only
recur to you like a happy dream, of which
the awakening was shame and disgrace ; but
I thank God still for having given me that
dream."

VOL. i. Q

There, signor," said Matteo, as he
emerged from the house with the required
refreshment; " that is such a bottle of wine,
though I say it, as you'll scarcely get for
twenty miles round. The signor seems
sad; try it, my lord, it will raise your
spirits."

Excellent ! " rejoined Weldrake. " Pilla
glass for yourself ; such stuff as this is as
good for the host as for the guest, a thing
not always the case amongst your fraternity,
my friend."

"Ah, excellent, we had better not say
too much on that point," said Matteo,
smacking his lips. " Pshaw ! " he continued,
with a shrug of his shoulders, " there is
much wine made that it is better to sell
than to drink."

"A man needn't travel far to find that
out," rejoined Wheldrake. "By the way,
have you ever heard of a Count Patroceni ?
I'm told he lives near Naples."

The Count, signor, the Count," said

Matteo with evident astonishment. " Count
Patroceni, a most amiable and respected
nobleman in these parts. Yes, my lord,
much loved and respected."

I can imagine that," rejoined Whelm
slowly. u But ah ! whom have we
here ? "

A most respectable farmer of these
parts," replied Matteo.

Ah ! good day, Giovanni. How have
the markets been of late ? " he continued
patronisingly.

If the new-comer warranted Matteo's encomiums
his looks belied him, for he was
about as truculent-looking a ruffian as is
often come across.

A little overdone with respectability this
community," muttered Wheldrake. " The
Count's much respected and my friend
here is a most respectable farmer. There's

generally some d d villainy cloaked

beneath so much respectability."

Markets are dull," replied Giovanni, as
Q2

he seated himself at Wheldrake's table, "but
his excellency tells me they are about to
mend. Get me some wine, my good
Matteo."

You make yourself at home, friend,"
remarked Wheldrake, staring at his uninvited
companion.

Most people do m an inn," retorted the
farmer, as he raised his glass to his lips.

One of the Count's tenants, signor,"
interposed Matteo, nervously. " A most respectable
man, I assure you."

Ah ! you hold property under Count
Patroceni ? " said Wheldrake.

Yes," replied Giovanni, laughing, " we
all do, and as much as we can lay our hands
on," and as he finished he again filled his
glass.

Yes, excellent," again interposed Matteo,
hurriedly, " the Count is such an excellent
landlord his tenants are always anxious
to hold "

More and more property," interrupted

Giovanni with a boisterous guffaw. " Cap-peri!
his excellency keeps a tight grasp, and
takes care our share is never so large," and
as he finished speaking he poured himself
out another bumper.

Your share ? " exclaimed Wheldrake. .

He means, signor," said Matteo, making
signs to Giovanni to leave the bottle alone,
that the Count's rents are a per-centage
system of the harvests gathered."

Yes, signor," said Giovanni, sulkily,
that's what I mean. These flasks of yours
run very small, friend Matteo," and as he
spoke he turned up his empty bottle in
disgust.

"You are right," said Wheldrake, "try
some of mine," and he pushed his wine
across. " Matteo, my good fellow, see if
you can find us another like this in the
cellar."

Matteo hesitated for a moment and evidently
regarded Giovanni with much misgiving;

at last, with the brief observation,
Certainly, signor," he disappeared into the
house.

That's good stuff," said Giovanni ; " ita
better brand than the vintage I've been
drinking."

u Your landlord owns a large estate then?"
said "Wheldrake, inquiringly.

Yes," replied Giovanni, grinning; " he
levies taxes for many miles round," and with
a deep sigh of regret the unprepossessing
farmer finished Wheldrake' s flask.

Levies taxes ? "

"Yes, my little fellow, we take toll of
most people in these parts."

At this moment Matteo emerged hurriedly
from the pavilion.

"He means the Count has the right of
octroi in these parts, signor," he said as he
put the fresh bottle on the table.

I suppose there are a good many of
you?" asked Wheldrake.

Oh about a score of as stout fellows as
ever you saw," replied Giovanni, as he
helped himself to the wine.

And can I see this popular landlord of
yours ? I presume he lives no great distance
from here "

His excellency lives here, there, and
everywhere," replied Giovanni with a
drunken laugh, " but he has a sweet little
place near here, where, when at home, he is
delighted to receive strangers. Like many
men popular by reputation, his popularity
rather disappears when seen and tried. I
have known people call him an extortionate
robber."

The fellow's tongue is loosened by
wine," thought Wheldrake ; " another few
glasses and I shall turn him inside out, like
my glove, and find out what this scoundrel
I have to deal with really is. Ah, my
friend," he continued, turning to Giovanni,
ci rumour always lies. Fill a bumper, my
friend to his excellency Count Patroceni,

whom his detractors call an exorbitant
robber."

The drunken fool will betray all,"
muttered Matteo. Cc I must take matters
into my own hands and send for assistance."


"More wine, my good Matteo," cried
Wheldrake, with assumed gaiety. "The
Count's health, my friend! What was if
you said your name was ? Of course Giovanni
is only a Christian name "

The unprepossessing farmer placed his
elbows on the table, and, staring at Whelm
with intense gravity, replied, " Giovanni,
though the scum about here, and his
excellency in particular, address me as
Giovanni the Hog."

And the scum are about right," interposed
Matteo, sharply. " Ah," he sighed,
he has had quite enough ; do not encourage
him."

tc Bah ! my friend," cried Wheldrake,
go and get me another bottle ; the respectable

farmer and I are going to have a bout
of it."

Matteo disappeared into the pavilion with
a menacing frown at Giovanni as be passed
bis chair.

Levies taxes ! A score of good stalwart
fellows." muttered Weel drake. (i What
does this mean? The Count I know to
be a thoroughpaced villain. Why this
extraordinary anxiety on the part of
Matteo to explain away what this fellow
says ?"

Come, my friend," cried Giovanni, as he
pushed the bottle across, " another bumper
to the { King of the Road and success to
his next venture ! "

"Here's to the King of the Road,"
replied Wheldrake, with assumed drunkenness
; iC may the pockets of his next guests
be well lined."

Mamma mia I signor. What a sly little
fellow you are. Why couldn't you say so
at once ? " he continued, winking. u You

are one of us, and the fools have set me to
watch you."

Ha, yes, a real good joke ! '' rejoined
Wheldrake, laughing. " Help yourself.
Only to think of his excellency making so
great a mistake ! "

You know him well," said Giovanni,
with that supernatural gravity that often
seizes a drunken man.

Know him ? Yes, indeed ; have drank
with him, played with him "

Played with him ? Ha, ha, ha, ha ! "
cried Giovanni, with a peal of boisterous
laughter. " Santo Diavolo played with him,
and never won from him ! Ho, Matteo,
Matteo," continued the respectable farmer,
here's a man who has played cards with
his excellency. Ha, ha, ha ! "

Ah, signor," exclaimed Matteo, as he
hurried in from the pavilion, in answer to
Giovanni's call. " You must pay no attention
his ravings. That drunken fool — a confirmed
gambler. His excellency was once

good enough to humour him and play him
for a quarter's rent. He lost, and ever
since in his cups talks loudly of the Count's
unparalleled luck."

11 A quarter's rent," exclaimed Giovanni.
Ha, ha ! he won me body and soul. Did
you ever dice with the devil, Matteo ? My

head swims. Your wine is Signor, no

more, it's poisoned," and as he spoke his
head dropped on the table, and Giovanni's
tongue was temporarily at rest.

Oh, signor," said Matteo, reproachfully,
you should not have indulged him in his
besetting sin. What can I get for you,
signors ? " and he turned to a couple of
rough-looking men of the farming class, who
had just entered.

Sin ! " exclaimed Wheldrake. " Nonsense,
it raises a man's spirits ; it makes him
forget. Giovanni has forgotten, so shall I,
soon," and so saying he finished his glass
drowsily. " A pretty nest of scoundrels I
have fallen amongst," he muttered, and

then throwing himself back in his chair,
prepared apparently to sleep off the effects
of his indulgence.

Matteo glanced at Wheldrake for a
moment, and then said in a low tone to the
new comers, " What orders do you bring ? "

That the Englishman is to be watched,
and not allowed to leave here if you think
he suspects anything."

"Suspects! If he does not, he is the
most innocent, unsuspicious man I ever met.
Hush ! he sleeps now, but you must keep
your eye upon him. Sit down at this
adjoining table, and I will bring you your
wine"'

What's gone wrong ? " inquired one
of the new comers, as the pair took their
seats.

That hog, Giovanni, who you can see is
drunk as usual, has babbled in his cups.
But are there no more of you ? These Englishmen
are difficult to handle. "

"Oh, yes. On receipt of your message

his excellency sent up four of us. Pietro is
behind the trees, and Giuseppe round the

angle of the house "

Enough. Mind, he is not to leave this'
said Matteo, sharply. " You will take your
orders from me, and above all be moderate
with the bottle,' ' and so saying Matteo went
into the pavilion in quest of wine.

The moment he had left, Wheldrake gave
a drowsy yawn, and rolling round in his
chair turned his back upon the new comers.
Now that prying landlord's back is
turned I had best quietly take my departure.
What that villain Patroceni really is seems
evident. A gentleman of fashion in England,
a mere bandit chief in his own country,
an outcome probably of Garibaldi's raid and
the upset of the Bourbons ; this at all
events is something to go upon. It will be
news for Sir Jasper when he learns what
manner of man Hamilton's friend was.
Brigand, revolutionist, and evidently in the
opinion of my intoxicated friend there an

adept with the cards. Some of Patroceni's
people these two last arrivals, no doubt.
However the man especially told off to watch
me is past even watching the bottle. The
others," and here he stole a glance at the
occupants of the adjoining table, " seem to
have devoted themselves pretty much to the
same task. That lynx-eyed Matteo is out of
the way. As good to chance it now as wait."

Wheldrake rose softly from his seat unobserved
by the two new comers, who were
absorbed in their wine and conversation,
and was quietly making his way towards
the entrance to the gardens, when, from the
shrubberies adjacent to the pavilion, issued
an apparently drunken man, who lurched
heavily against him.

Out of the way, you drunken swine ! "
cried "Wheldrake, rashly.

What ho ! friends, will you see an old
comrade m suited ? " shouted the stranger.

The two men at the table sprang instantly
to their feet, another appeared from round

the corner of the pavilion, and all three
rushed instantly to the spot where Whelm
was engaged in a scuffle with their
comrade. Four against one, the odds were
too much ; and after a desperate struggle
Wheldrake succumbed to his assailants, and
was dragged back to the pavilion uttering
cries for help.

Santo Diavolo ! we had better put a
knife in him," growled one of the brigands.

For your life, no. His excellency's
orders are peremptory ; he is to be made
prisoner only."

Ah, here's Matteo," rejoined one of the
others, " he will tell us what to do."

Quick, gag him, you fools ! " cried
Matteo. " Bring him in at once, and don't
let him draw the whole gardens round us."

In another instant a cloak was thrown
about the prisoner's head, and he was carried
vi et armis into the pavilion.

CHAPTER XIV.

LA VICAKIA.

The sun was sinking beneath the blue
waters of the bay when Giovanni awoke
from his drunken slumber and gazed
vacantly around him. At first he had no
very clear idea of where he was or what
had taken place, but his amazed mind
gradually recovered itself, and he remembered
that he had been despatched by his
excellency to keep an eye upon the Englishman.
He looked round, the Englishman
was gone, and then a feeling of uneasiness
almost amounting to terror came across him,
for he was aware how merciless was the

chief he served. Giovanni was no coward,
but he had a superstitious awe of Patroceni.
With card or sword, pistol or die, he looked
upon it as hopeless to struggle with the
Count. Then the man had seen more than
one example of Patroceni' s relentless vengeance
on those who had failed him. He
was no coward, but a shiver ran through his
bulky frame as he thought of rendering an
account of his errand to his chief.

A craving for a cup of wine to steady his
nerves, and a feverish desire to know the
extent of his error, at last induced him to
shout in somewhat uncertain tones, "Matteo,
ho Matteo ! "

Voice and manner were very different
from those of the swaggering ruffian of some
two or three hours ago.

"What is your pleasure, signor'' asked
Matteo, as he issued from the pavilion.

A cup of wine, Matteo, for Heaven's
sake ; and what has become of that accursed
Englishman ?"

VOL. I. E,

u How should I know ? What, is he tome
? It was your business to see to that,
and it is you that his Excellency will look
to for information on that point."

The wine, Matteo, first. Ah, fool that
I am ! His Excellency never forgives. Do
you think this was a matter of much consequence
? "

Yes, of very grave consequence to you,"
rejoined Matteo, sarcastically. "But I'll
get you a cup of strong wine : no more
flasks, remember, 5 ' and Matteo disappeared
into the house.

"Ah, yes!" muttered Giovanni. "His
Excellency is of a sadly unforgiving temper.
Corps di Banco ! I don't relish meeting him
at all. Thanks, friend Matteo," he continued,
as the host reappeared with a
tumbler of wine. " What would you recommend
me to do — go back or not ? "

It is for you to decide," replied Matteo,
with a shrug of his shoulders. " His Excellency
punishes disobedience of orders pretty

sharply, and I wouldn't stand in your shoes,
my friend, for a trifle. But, on the other
side, remember his hand reaches far, and
there is no safety round about these parts
for the deserter."

Giovanni gave a shrug of his shoulders.

That's true. A man must die when his
turn comes ; and to escape his Excellency's
vengeance, ah, who can?" and the brigand
finished the wine-cup. " Stop, Matteo,
there is one way. It is possible yet to track
this Englishman, eh ? What became of
him ? "

"That matters little to you. He has
been taken care of ; but don't flatter yourself
that his Excellency will fail to hear
how you played watch-dog."

I didn't think you would be so hard
upon an old friend," replied Giovanni.
"You might leave me to tell my own
story."

u It's ill trying to keep secrets from his
Excellency. Fool, do you think I am going
b 2

to get myself into trouble ? Do you suppose
a thing can be kept secret which is known
to Pietro, Giuseppe, and the others ? "

What, were they here ? "

Who do you think secured the Englishman
whilst you were senseless, in spite of
all my warnings ? I saw you were beginning
to babble. You always do in your
cups. The Englishman had learnt too
much. It would have been dangerous tolet
him go."

Ha ! and they captured him. I'd best
away to the forest at once, and make my
confession to his Excellency. He'll perhaps
"

Put a bullet through those addled brains
of yours," interrupted Matteo, sharply :
"but it is possible — as, thanks to others,
your mission was not a failure — he may overlook
your — well, we'll say carelessness. But
remember, Signor Giovanni, this is by no
means the first instance of such carelessness,
and although, in consideration of past services,

his Excellency has been lenient to
your shortcomings, I'd recommend you not
to count much further on it."

"It is hard, too, that a man's never to
take his pleasure in this world," growled the
brigand, as he rose from his chair.

Take your pleasure, if stupefying yourself
be so, only don't go to sleep when your
orders are to keep your eyes open."

Good-bye, Signor Matteo, your advice is
as sound as your wine, though not half so
pleasant to take;" and with these words
Giovanni took his departure.

"He lias courage," said Matteo to himself.
" I have not, and the Count knows it ;
but I would sooner face a wild elephant than
his Excellency after having bundled one
of his commands in that fashion. It is possible
I have seen Giovanni for the last time ;
but as we have not let the Englishman slip
through our fingers the Count may forgive
him. I wonder how the Englishman likes
his new quarters ? I don't know what he

has been used to, but it must have been very
poor accommodation if his present satisfies
him ; " and with a cynical chuckle Matteo
retired into his own domain.

Seated on a truckle-bed in a garret, situated
in that most miserable part of that very
miserable suburb of Naples called La Vicaria,
is Wheldrake, puzzling his brain in vain
endeavours to account for the restless animosity
of Count Patroceni. That his kidnappers
are emissaries of that nobleman, if
such he be, admits of no manner of doubt.
What can be his object in thus making him
a prisoner ? Money, he presumes. He
knows enough about the habitudes of Italian
brigands to know that the capture of
people with means, and the exaction of a
heavy ransom from either themselves or
their friends, is the most lucrative part of
their trade. But then, how on earth did
Patroceni know of his arrival in Naples ?
He had not been above a few hours in the
town, indeed his luggage had not yet arrived

to his knowledge. He had walked across
from Pompeii, turned into the Villa del
Realee, with a view to a rest and enjoying
the glorious prospect of the Bay and its surroundings.
Suddenly, in the words of Coleridge,
" an exposition of sleep " fell upon
him, and he asked Matteo for leave to lie
down in the pavilion; the sequel we have
seen.

As yet his captors had made no sign of
their intentions. He had been hurried
through the pavilion, taken rapidly out of
the gardens under the guise of a drunken
man — for such was the explanation given by
his assailants to the few who manifested
curiosity concerning the affair — and had
now been detained under lock and key some
twenty four hours. That he had been
brought some three or four miles he computed
by the time it had taken the carriage
into which he had been hustled the instant
he was outside the Villa del Eeale to traverse
the distance. He did not even know where

he was ; he only knew that he was under
lock and key and closely watched. The villainous
old ha who brought him his meals
simply shook her head when interrogated ;
but Wheldrake could see, whenever the
door was opened, there were always a couple
of men on the alert to prevent anything like
a sudden sortie on his part. Once or twice
he had turned over in his mind the feasibility
of a rush for freedom the next time
the door was opened ; but then he reflected
that these double sentinels had plenty of
comrades in all likelihood within call, and
that, if he temporarily escaped from them,
he had not the faintest idea of where he
was.

One thing struck him as singular, and
went far to prove that his captors were
acting under the orders of Patroceni : all
his personal property had been respected ;
watch, money, and rings no one had ever
attempted to interfere with, though he had
detected more than one rapacious glance cast

at his watch and chain by those who guarded
him ; also he was treated with marked deference
and civility. Squalid as was the room
in which he was confined, there was an
evident clumsy attempt to smarten it up ;
while the food and wine supplied were far
superior to the surroundings. Two or three
days passed in this wise. Every morning
he was visited by a man, not one of his
captors, who, though courteously apologising
for what he was pleased to term
Wheldrake's inevitable detention, yet was
always solicitous that anv reasonable desire
of his should be attended to, with the exception
of restoring him his liberty. Papers,
books, anything he demanded, with the exception
of writing materials, to lighten his
squalid captivity were freely supplied him,
but vainly did he demand what was the
reason of his unwarranted imprisonment.
His head-gaoler simply shrugged his shoulders.
His orders were that the prisoner
should be made as comfortable as the circumstances

admitted. When Wheldrake
threatened that his country would demand
severe account from the authors of this outrage,
the supple Italian simply bowed and
replied,

Signor, I merely obey my orders. Has
signor any further commands for me today
? "

Yes, why have I been thus kidnapped ?
When am I to be released ? " he demanded
hotly one morning.

Ah, signor, I am but a subordinate, and
do not know. My instructions are only todo
the best I can to make your temporary
detention as endurable as possible. It is
with my superiors your friends or Government
must reckon. But we are not much
afraid of English interference on behalf of
her citizens. Were you French or German
it might be a different matter; civis Ho-manus
sum hardly applies to your people."

Wheldrake started. This man, who claimed
such knowledge of foreign politics, who was

he ? Of education undoubtedly, and yet his
dress hardly warranted the belief that he
belonged to anything superior much to those
quasi farmers who had kidnapped him in
the Villa del Realee,

But to cross-examination the man was
impervious, meeting every question with an
imperturbable Si, signor, unless it related to
something requisite to "Wh el drake's comfort,
when he at once assured him it should be
promptly attended to.

Life had seemed pretty dreary before, but
life in such squalid captivity as this was unendurable.
In vain did he question his
gaolers; they deprecated his wrath, implored
his excellency to have patience, that he
would be removed into the country in a few
days, and have then no cause to complain of
his accommodation ; for the present, and
here the head-warder shrugged his shoulders,
they were doing their best to make
things comfortable for him. It was a puzzle
what could be Patroceni's reason for thus

persecuting him. A few days elapsed, and,
growing dreadfully weary of his incarceration,
Wheldrake was revolving in his mind
many schemes for escape — that he was vigilantly
guarded and escape hy no means easy
he had ascertained without doubt — when his
head guardian announced to him at dinner,
"The signor's annoyance is nearly ended;
tomorrow he will be removed into the
country, and then the remainder of his
detention will he a mere nothing ; there we
shall he able to give the signor the accommodation
and fresh air we regret so much
we are unable to afford him here."

But why am I detained, as you call it ?
What is it you want of me ? I am a
prisoner, apparently for no reason'

Ah ! signor, that will be explained to
you in a day or two. If the signor will
have patience a little, two days more and he
will understand all."

If Wheldrake had been weary of his life
before, and with such a terrible and unmerited

crash as had come to him it might
be so, he was getting insufferably sick of it
under present circumstances ; but there was
the wholesome difference in his feelings that
instead of that dark apathy to things in
general he now felt a healthy irritability at
his enforced inaction. He was really taking
a compulsory tonic, a medicine served out
to us at times by the Pates without our in
the least understanding it. Sloth and
sluggishness have more than once been
dissipated by such incentive to work as
pecuniary difficulties ; and, little as we may
think it, the breaking of the bank that contains
most of our eggs is not altogether bad
for us at times. Wheldrake began t& busy
himself about compassing his escape. To
bribe one of his gaolers was obviously the
easiest way to effect this, and so communicate
with the outer world; but then, unfortunately,
Wheldrake had no outer world
to communicate with. He knew no one in
Naples. His sole chance lay in Chisel. He

had sent for his valet to London only a few
weeks back, to that servant's great delight.
He had left him at the inn at Pompeii, with
instructions to follow with the baggage, and
go to a leading hotel in Naples. Chisel was
a shrewd man, and would be likely to raise
considerable inquiry about the disappearance
of his master. But on the other hand
Wheldrake knew pretty well what the
Italian police were, and that a case brought
to them by a servant would be investigated
with a deliberation that left little hope for
the person chiefly interested. Plenty of
time for his making a decent ending before
the police took the matter into serious consideration.
It was curious and characteristic
of the ins and outs of human nature.
Two weeks ago, and Wheldrake would have
declared it mattered nothing what became
of him. Now, on the contrary, it was a
matter of great moment he should obtain
his freedom.

His obtaining his freedom was subject of

conjecture ; but his changing the hot
stifling room in which he was confined was,
as his head gaoler assured him, an affair of
days.

u To-morrow, signor, you will leave this
for the country. I regret that we shall be
compelled to disturb you at daybreak," said
the apparent chief of his immediate captors,
and who was treated with great deference by
his subordinates, under the title of Signor
Sarini ; " but it is rather a long and tedious
journey. The roads are not quite what
they should be. Still I feel sure you will
appreciate the pure air and lovely scenery
of the place you are about to visit."

Visit ! " rejoined Wheldrake, fiercely.
The place to which I am to be dragged, in
defiance of all law and justice. What is it
you seek — my life, my money — say ? It is
hardly worth while to remove me out of
this room to take either the one or the
other."

Don't be so bitter, signor. There are

reasons for your temporary detention ; but,
believe me, your life is in no danger."

And by what right do you deprive me
of my liberty ? " asked Wheldrake, angrily.

u Ah, signor, by that great right which
is the cause of most injustice on this earth,
the right of the strong to oppress the weak.
You are in our hands as the people are for
the most part in the hands of their rulers.
Did the Bourbons, think you, show much
mercy during their rule over us ? Ah,
signor, neither life, property, nor the honour
of our wives and daughters were safe while
those tyrants had power to gratify their
caprices. At daybreak tomorrow, excellency."


It was now evident to Wheldrake that he
was in the hands of a somewhat mixed community;
that, while the subordinates could
claim no higher rank than that of ordinary
bandits, their chiefs were men who had been
concerned prominently in the great revolutionary
movement that took its rise in '48.

He had always heard Patroceni credited
with being deeply involved in all the many
convulsions that Italy went through before
shaking off the yoke of the worse race that,
perhaps, with the exception of the Stuart,
ever were set over their fellows.

Wheldrake was roused at daybreak the
next morning, and informed that he had a
short half-hour to swallow the coffee brought
to him, and prepare for his journey. He
was soon up and ready. Sarini escorted him
downstairs with all the deference and
courtesy that a groom of the chambers might
have shown, but Wheldrake caught sight of
divers " respectable farmers " about, two of
whom occupied the box of the carriage, and
two more who were prepared to accompany
it on horseback. There was no help for it ;
he was off apparently to spend a few days
with His Excellency, Count Patroceni.

VOL, I.

CHAPTER XV.

maude's misgivings.

"When I travel," said Mrs. Fullerton, "I
do like to see what there is to be seen. Did
not somebody say, ' See Naples and die ? ' I
don't want to. I want to see Herculaneum
and Pompeii, and get up no end of enthusiasm
about those grand old Romans."

"Awfully over-rated race!" rejoined Cranfield
3 who was lounging in the window of
the hotel sitting-room, and languidly surveying
the vagaries of the Villa del Realee, and
the bright blue waters of the famous bay in
the background.

"Mr. Glanfield!" exclaimed the widow

do you really mean you have no veneration
for the past, and one of the nations that
have bequeathed us the chief elements of
civilisation."

Beg pardon, Mrs. Eullerton, but I
haven't any great veneration for the past,
especially for a people whose ideas about
horse-racing seem to have been so lamentably
crude. The Greeks, with their Olympiad,
were a long way in front of them.
The Romans were simply a fraud."

"Mr. Glanfield, how can you talk such
nonsense?" replied the widow, briskly.
"Nobody disputes the Romans were a great
race."

No," rejoined Glanfield, drily, " because
nobody, as a rule, takes the trouble to think.
They went about the world colonising, just
as we do ; thrashed what they were pleased to
term the ' barbarians,' just as we thrash the
Abyssinians or Ashantees, who have neither
arms nor discipline to cope with us; bragged
about the success of their armies just as we
s2

do : the success being the result of the
trained, practised gladiator against the undisciplined,
ignorant yokel. All mere force.
They were pretty good road-makers, and
that's all. We have had a man or two
pretty good in the same line — Wade, only-remembered
by the old epigram —

If you'd seen these roads before they were made,
You would call down blessings on General Wade.'

And MacAdam, who I curse with all my
heart, whenever I am in London, for the
state his system has reduced some thoroughfare
or other, essential to my happiness."


Mr. Glanfield, you don't mean really to
pretend these are your real sentiments ?"

Mr. Glanfield must have had a respect
for Horace and Virgil knocked into him at
Harrow," said Maude, laughing.

"Now that's just what he hadn't' replied
Glanfield. " I'd a great dislike of
those poets pretty roughly instilled into me.

I learnt to hate Virgil with his prosing
about the pious eneas, who, by the way,
was no better than the rest of us when he
got the slightest temptation to bolt out of
the course ; and as for Horace, he was no
doubt a jolly good fellow, but the more we
knew of him the less respect we felt for
him."

"They were a grand race, Mr. Glanfield,"
said Mrs. Pullerton, with much dignity,
and I intend to see those relics of their
greatness at Herculaneum and Pompeii."

"Quite right!" replied Mr. Glanfield,
u there are some relics of their greatness
there not shown as a rule to ladies. Another
curious thing to show how little new there
is under the sun, they loaded their dice
quite as artistically as any macer in London
could now."

Macer ! " exclaimed Mrs. Eullerton.

I beg your pardon. I mean a man who
does not always play on the square, one
might say rarely."

Well," said Sir Jasper, laughing, " we
must see these places, of course, and, from
all I can gather, Glanfield will prove a first-rate
cicerone T

At this moment Hamilton entered the
apartment, and, upon being informed of the
subject of discussion, said emphatically, —
Of course we must go to Pompeii, nobody
ever comes to Naples without doing it. I
will arrange all about the carriages, &c, tomorrow."


"Fancy we had better have an escort,
Hamilton ; there are a good many of the
light-fingered gentry about; some of the
revolutionaries of '48 and the following
years, who pick up a precarious living by
entrapping the unwary."

Brigands ! pooh, nonsense ; the age of
brigandage has gone by. An escort would
be a bore and superfluity "

Don't know about a bore," rejoined
Glanfield, quietly. " A compulsory residence
in the mountains, with a good deal of

money to pay for one's release, would be a
greater nuisance."

"My dear Glanfield, this is a thing of the
past, I assure you. Brigandage is a thing
almost unknown in the present day."

These old — well, what shall I say, habits
or vices die hard. People are very conservative
over such little matters, and are wont
to think the exaction of tribute from the
passing stranger a laudable custom. We doit
in London, only in a different fashion —
overcharge him in the bill. Same thing,
only more delicately put to him."

But surely, Mr. Glanfield," exclaimed
Maude, "brigands really are merely legendary
in these days."

Just the sort of legend you find still in
full bloom in this sort of country. However,
Hamilton knows the Continent much
better than I do; if he don't think an
escort necessary no doubt it isn't."

"All rubbish, paying a lot of greasy,
swaggering beggars to pretend there's danger.

No, no, we can take care of ourselves.
An impudent mendicant is about the most
obtrusive brigand we are likely to run

across."

Just what these fellows are — impudent
mendicants got together — mendicants who've
swarmed," said Glanfield. " However,
they're probably things of the past, though
it might be as well to inquire of the police
on the subject. "

Never any use consulting the police in
this country on such a subject. They
either don't know, or are in collusion with
the enemy. Take my word for it, all this
sort of thing is quite of the past''

Very good, then," interposed Sir Jasper.
We'll make an excursion to Pompeii tomorrow.
You'll see about all the necessary
arrangements, Red?"

All right, uncle. You will enjoy our
excursion immensely, Maude. With your
veneration for the ancients it is sure to interest
you."

A pained look shot across the girl's face,
not unnoticed by Mrs. Fullerton, who rightly
interpreted it. She knew her niece was
thinking of Cyril, with whom this very trip
ought to have been taken. It was curious
how by mere choice Maude drifted along
the very path which "Wheldrake in all the
elation of his triumph had proposed should
constitute his bridal tour. Had Hamilton
reflected on all this, he was shrewd enough
to understand, that, if you wish a girl to
forget, it is stupid to take her amongst
scenes or surroundings that infallibly recall
her lost lover to her recollection. Maude
was slowly awakening to the fact that her
cousin wished her to be something more
than that to him, and the idea frightened
the girl. To her it seemed like sacrilege to
think that the memory of Cyril could be so
soon put on one side; she could hardly
even believe that Hamilton himself could
wish it. Surely if the love was worth winning
it could not be transferred with such

rapidity as this would amount to ; yet still
she fancied that her cousin unmistakably
desired to fill Cyril's place. This reason
alone would have sufficed to make the tour
distasteful to her, and yet she knew it could
scarcely be brought to an abrupt conclusion.
It was not easy for the girl under present
circumstances to avoid Fred Hamilton's
attentions. He was cunning, insomuch ashe
kept upon that borderland which never
quite committed him. He could always fall
back with the assertion that his attentions
were merely cousinly; but Maude knew just
as well as Hamilton himself did that they
were calculated to mislead the lookers-on ;
that friends who had met them exchanged
significant glances when they saw hamilton
talking to her; and nothing corroborated
this idea so much as the fact that even her
aunt, Mrs. Pullerton, who enjoyed most of her
confidence, was evidently rather staggered.
Mrs. Fullerton had believed that her niece
was still staunch to her old love, but so insidious

was Hamilton in his attentions that
even she began to doubt whether Maude did
not tacitly encourage them. The girl's sole
defence under these circumstances consisted
in Mr. Glanfield, and even that to a great
extent failed her. It was all very well to
affect a desire for his society in order toward
off Hamilton' s attentions, but then
Glanfield was considerably monopolised by
her aunt, and, what is more, seemed to
submit to that monopoly with much satisfaction.
If Mrs. Pullerton's intention was
matrimony there was no doubt that this
trip gave her vast opportunities. Glanfield,
deprived of what might be called his natural
resource, racing, submitted himself to
the widow's dictation without resistance.
She amused him, and that to an Englishman
thrown adrift on the Continent means
much. He hated sight seeing, cared nothing
whatever about picture-galleries, spoke no
language but his own, and had that fine
insular contempt for foreigners very prevalent

about the beginning of the century,
therefore to him Mrs. Eullerton was rapidly
becoming a necessity ; no more insidious
way than this of conquering the confirmed
bachelor. He doesn't mean matrimony in
the least — he simply drifts into it. Girls
think that a good tennis-player or ball-room
partner is a great attraction to a man ; but
if they wish he should think seriously of
marrying let them teach him to value their
society rather higher than that — let him find
that their absence makes his days dreary.
We all know what it costs to abandon an
accustomed luxury, and perhaps no greater
luxury exists than the companionship of a
clever woman.

Hamilton set himself to work that
afternoon to make every arrangement for an
excursion to Pompeii. He gave all the necessary
orders about carriages, and, though
scorning to consult the police, did make
some inquiries as to the possibility of encountering
brigands, but it was very difficult

to get anything like a straightforward
answer from the people of the hotel. Gentlemen
took escorts and gentlemen did not.
There was no reason to suppose there was
any necessity to do so, but of course the
signor would do as he thought best ; upon
which Hamilton pooh-poohed all ideas of
an escort, and ordered the carriages for the
next morning.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE COUNT AT HOME.

After a drive of about an hour the carriage
which contained Wheldrake came to a
stop, and it was intimated to him that he
was to alight. The carriage was sent back
to Naples, and Signor Sarini informed him
that he would have to accomplish the remainder
of his journey on foot. To his inquiry
of whether they had far to go he was
told some distance. He fancied he recognised
the road to Pompeii, but his captors
speedily left the high road and struck into
paths known only to themselves. Some
half-dozen rough-looking men of the peasant
type, but all well armed, and evidently

resolved to stand no nonsense, surrounded
him. Wheldrake was an active young man
in his prime and accustomed to hard exercise,
but he found it taxed his powers to
keep pace with his companions, who, he
gathered, had strong reasons for haste. Now
and again they stopped and anxiously interrogated
the goat-herds whom they occasionally
passed. Apparently the answers they
received were satisfactory, for, as they put a
further distance between themselves and
Naples, they sensibly relaxed their speed.
The country through which they were passing
now was wild and mountainous, but well
wooded and evidently very sparsely inhabited,
and it was clear to Wheldrake that he
was being hurried further and further from
the haunts of men, though with what object
he was unable to conjecture. His rough
tourist suit and laced boots were not calculated
to give the idea of his being a man of
property, while at the same time, had it been
intended to treat him in ordinary brigand

fashion, it was strange lie should have been
allowed to retain his watch and what money
he had about him. He could hardly have
been regarded as a man able to pay a heavy
ransom, unless his captors had some private
information about him which led them to
suppose him likely to meet a pretty stiff
estimate as to the price of his freedom. Still,
foreigners always have an exaggerated idea
of an Englishman's wealth. And another
thing Wheldrake did not know was, that the
particular class of foreigners with whom
he was at present travelling always believe
that an Englishman's country will in the
end be sure to find the sum necessary for his
redemption. It was quite in accordance
with all he ever had heard of the customs of
brigandage to hurry its prisoners to the
mountains while entering into negociations
for their release. In short, the more he
turned it over in his own mind the less conclusion
Wheldrake was able to come to as to
the cause of his captivity. At last his captors

stopped for the night near a spring of clearwater,
by the side of which stood a rough-looking
hovel. A shrill whistle given by one
of their party was speedily replied to, and
their numbers were augmented by two more
gentlemen of similar appearance to themselves.
A short hurried conversation with
the new comers ended in their producing
some provisions and wine-flasks from the
interior of the unpromising looking hut, and
"Wheldrake was then invited to partake of a
rough but substantial supper, and, that
despatched, was given to understand that he
was at liberty to go to sleep whenever he
pleased. As for the brigands, they threw
themselves on the ground like men thoroughly
habituated to sleeping in the open
air, not forgetting to leave one of their
number as sentry. Wheldrake, who was
thoroughly tired with his journey, speedily
followed their example. Escape would have
been no easy thing even if he had felt disposed
to attempt it. He would have had not

VOL. I. T

only to defy the vigilance of the sentry, butin
a country totally unknown to him would
in all probability have been speedily recaptured.
As it was he slept sounder than he
had done since first made a prisoner. His
companions were up at daybreak, and, after
a hasty meal, once more resumed their
journey. In answer to his inquiries he was
told that he would reach his destination in
the course of the day. It was pretty mucha
repetition of yesterday's journey, but towards
the afternoon his captors were evidently
nearing their halting-place. At last,
after climbing a hill clothed with thickish
wood, they emerged on a grassy plateau
which was evidently their headquarters.
The encampment was small, and the probability
was that the hardy ruffians who resided
there slept for the most part with the
sky for their canopy. Still on the left was a
neat well-built hut, whilst on the right were
a couple of good-sized tents. On this same
side were the traces of small fires which had

probably been used for cooking purposes. In
the foreground, scattered about, were some
fourteen or fifteen men, sleeping, smoking,
cleaning their arms, or playing cards. On the
upper part of the plateau at the back of the
hut might be seen an easy chair and a small
table, on which were some few books and
writing materials, and it was noticeable that
this portion of the plateau seemed carefully
avoided by the whole band. The chair was
empty, nor was any one visible at the open
clcors of either hut or tents. There was a
brief conversation between Sarini and one
or two of the denizens of the encampment,
and then Wheldrake was ordered to enter
the tent on the extreme right of the plateau.
It was evident that some preparations had
been made for his reception, although somewhat
of the roughest. A truckle-bed, a
rough table and a chair, and some scanty
washing apparatus on an empty packing-case
in one corner of the marquee, constituted
the furniture, but on the table was a
T 2

well-worn edition of " Gil Bias," together
with a couple of French novels and a pack
of cards. Wheldrake was then informed by
Sarini that he would not be permitted to
leave the tent without permission; and,
pointing significantly to the sentry at the
door, added he trusted the signor would
make no infringement upon that order, and
so avoid all disagreeable consequences. His
excellency would be at once informed of his
(Wheldrake's) arrival, and it was very probable
would be anxious to see him before
long.

Wheldrake had not long to wait. He was
considerately allowed an hour or so to rest,
and then Sarini once more appeared and requested
Wheldrake to follow him. A singular
tableau was presented to the eye as
they emerged from the marquee. Seated in
the chair at the back of the plateau was a
man whom Wheldrake immediately recognised
as Patroceni, On the other side of
the table was Giovanni, standing in the

attitude of one who has made up his mind
to face the consequences of his misdeeds
with determination. Between him and
Patroceni was a man speaking volubly and
with all that rapid gesticulation common to
the Italian when moved; while grouped
around at a respectful distance, hut listening
intently to Matteo's animated description,
were the remainder of the hand, numbering
between twenty and thirty. Wheldrake
spoke Italian indifferently, hut like most
people understood it much better than he
could speak it. Besides, Matteo's animated
pantomime showed that he was telling the
story of Giovanni's frailty. At last he
ceased, and the brigands craned eagerly
forward to see the next act of the drama.

Patroceni rose quietly from his chair, and
in a moment his deep-toned voice rang clear
and resonant through the pure mountain
air.

Giovanni," he said, " you know cur
laws; the one you have broken is punishable

more or less in every military brotherhood
that ever existed. Among men who
carry their lives in their hands, like ourselves,
the penalty is death. The drunkenness
of any one of us on service may result
in the destruction of the remainder. I have
spared your life, forfeited for this transgression
already once, in consideration of the
good service you did that day at Amalfi.
This time I mean to give you a bare chance
of it. I ought to shoot you where you
stand, but instead I'll try the thickness of
that numskull of yours, and may God grant
it to be thick enough to save you from the
fate you merit," and as he spoke the Count,
who was habited in rather a dandified bandit
attire, drew a pistol from his belt, and,
taking it by the barrel, dealt Giovanni a
blow with the butt that stretched the brigand
senseless on the grass.

A long-drawn breath went up from the
lookers-on.

Santo Diavolo ! but his Excellency

strikes hard' muttered one of them. " He
might as well have shot him at once ; he'll
never recover from such a crack on the head
as that."

Tush ! Giovanni's skull is pretty thick,
and, though it may ache for some two or
three days, he will be well enough again ina
week," rejoined another.

He'll carry the mark of the Count's
handwriting to his grave whether he recover
or no," said a third.

Pleasant this ! " thought Wheldrake.
The last time I met this man I called
him a liar. The vengeful disposition of the
Italians is proverbial, and I am utterly in
his pow T er."

Take him away, some of you," said the
Count with a wave of his hand at the prostrate
bandit, " and if necessary bury him.
Matteo, you have done good service, and
those that serve me well know that I am not
forgetful. Return now to Naples in case
the information you bring should again

prove of no use. The excursion of the English
lord has been postponed once, and, in
spite of what you hear, may be postponed
again. Get back as quickly as you can and
be all eyes and ears."

With a low reverence Matteo turned away,
and, crossing the plateau, plunged into the
wood, while with another wave of his hand
Patroceni dismissed his band. Wheldrake
was about also to return to his tent when a
quiet " The signor will remain " caused him
to retain his ground.

Ah, Sarini," said the Count, suavely, " I
see you have persuaded this shy friend of
mine to at last visit me. The last time we
met he expressed a desire to do so. He had
had a bad night at cards and was anxious
for his revenge. "Welcome, Signor Whelm
to my country seat. You must take
us a little in the rough, but you shall have
the best we can give you."

I am your prisoner, Count Patroceni,
and of course at your mercy," rejoined

Wheldrake. " I flung hard words at your
head the last time we met, and, from what I
have just witnessed, hare little doubt I shall
now have to reckon for them."

Ah ! " said the Count, proudly, " that
shows how little you understand me. Words
of insult I settle with the utterer, man for
man, as is customary between gentlemen.
You are here, sir, chiefly because you took
advantage of a fool's inebriety to learn my
secrets. I wished to meet you for reasons
of my own, but you may thank your own
curiosity mainly for your present detention."

And may I ask how long that is likely
to last ? " inquired Wheldrake.

I regret I cannot quite say," replied the
Count. " I am daily expecting some friends
of yours. Ah, yes, Signor Wheldrake, you
will find it quite a family party. It will
quite recall Wrottsley to your recollection,
though I am afraid I can't give you quite
such a day's shooting as we had that day at

the what-you-call-it — Clanger's, Sanger's, or
something like that."

Hangers," said Wheldrake, shortly.

Ah, yes, if I could only ask that clergyman
who got angry it would be quite complete,"
continued the Count, laughing
heartily.

You issue your invitations in a somewhat
singular fashion," rejoined "Wheldrake,
curtly.

"True," replied the Count. M I hate
refusals. I always send pressing invitations."


'• I presume my detention is a mere question
of money ?" rejoined Wheldrake, haughtily,
" and, if so, Count Patroceni, the sooner
you acquaint me with the conditions of my
release the better I shall be pleased."

Oh, fie ! Signor W T heldrake. You are
scarcely courteous. Do you take me for an
innkeeper who sends in his bill when his
guest calls for it. No, you will partake of
my hospitality for a few days. I have quite

a pleasant party to meet you when we are
all assembled. Any books I have are at
your disposal, although I am sorry to say
my library here is somewhat limited.
Besides, we will have a little baccarat to
while away the time. Signor Sarini here is
fond of the game, and an accomplished
player at it. For the present, Signor
Wheldrake, I have the honour to wish you
adieu," and with a quiet bow Patroceni
turned and walked away in the direction of
the hut.

I think, signor," said Sarini, " you cannot
do better than follow his Excellency's
example," — a hint with which Wheldrake
immediately complied.

What can it all mean? he thought, as he
seated himself on his bed. He brands me
cheat and cards harper at Wrottsley, and
now proposes to play baccarat with me
again.

CHAPTER XVII.

AN EXCURSION TO AMALFI.

The sudden indisposition of Maude had
postponed the contemplated excursion to
Pompeii. She had had a slight feverish
attack, and the doctors prescribed quiet, but
the girl soon rallied, and Mrs. Pullerton
became once more anxious to get on classic
ground.

"My dear Maude ! " exclaimed that vivacious
lady, " I do think now that you are
well enough to take part in our contemplated
expedition to Pompeii. "

Quite, auntie, and as anxious for it as
you can be. I am quite equal to starting
tomorrow, if it can be arranged."

"I must speak to Fred about it," rejoined
Mrs. Fullerton. " He organised the affair
before, and no doubt will do so again. I
wonder whether he could manage it for tomorrow."


Hamilton, upon being appealed to, declared
there was no difficulty about it whatever,
but suggested they should make a
regular outing of it ; see Pompeii, &c, and
then go on to Amalfi, sleep there, and return
next day. "It will be a delightful
excursion, if you don't mind roughing it a
little "

"Oh, no," rejoined Mrs. Pullerton, gaily,
I am quite good for that. "We women
can always bear the loss of our little
comforts with much greater resignation
than you men. Oh dear ! how you do
groan if there is any rumpling of the rose-leaves
"

*know one point, though," remarked
Glanfield, putting up his eye-glass, "we
rather beat you on. We bear being

disappointed by our tailor better than
you bear being disappointed by your
milliner."

Of course you do," rejoined Mrs. Fullerton.
" Our dress is a matter of paramount
importance; yours quite a secondary consideration.
However, Maude, I suppose we
needn't adorn much for this trip."

I don't know," said Glanfield. " Messieurs
the brigands may be connoisseurs in
female beauty, and in case of accidents we
shall look to the influence of your charms
to protect us."

Don't, pray, talk such nonsense, Cranfield.
You are only making the ladies
causelessly nervous, I was talking the
other day to an intelligent fellow, who keeps
one of the pavilions in the Villa del Realee,
and where I often take a cup of coffee, and
he quite smiled at the idea of brigands
between this and Amalfi. No, I'll order
the carriages for tomorrow, if that'll do,
uncle ? "

That will suit every body, I think,"
replied Sir Jasper. "You must make up
your mind to do without your maids,
ladies."

It's a trial," said Mrs. Pullerton, with
much resignation ; " but for once "

You must make up your mind to appear
as God made you," interrupted Glanfleld.

k ' The monster ! " cried the widow. " Do
you hear him, Maude ? Mr. Glanfleld
would insinuate that he has never seen us
save as fashioned by our maids."

"Ten thousand pardons, Mrs. Fullerton.
You don't understand me. Beauty, when
unadorned, &c, is all a mistake. A pretty
woman looks all the better for the assistance
of the milliner. A pretty woman, well-grooved
— I mean well-dressed, is far better
worth looking at than the Venus of Milo.
I haven't seen it, and don't want to, but
Lord Byron, I presume, had, and I agree
with him. Doesn't he sav —

I've seen live women, ripe and real,
Worth all the wonders of their stone ideal,'

or something like it."

The widow was completely mollified by
this change of front. She was many years
younger than her brother, and knew that
she was a very good-looking woman still,
albeit a little full-blown. She smiled sweetly
on Mr. Glanfield as she replied : —

"Well, for once it is understood we dispense
with the accessories of the toilet.
What sacrifices we make, Maude, in our
pursuit of the antique."

Which is contrary to the custom of your
sex, Clara. Woman usually makes her
sacrifices to avoid the antique;" and the
Baronet chuckled heartily at his own joke.
I shall only take Jackson, then ; we shall
find one servant useful," and, so saying, Sir
Jasper left the room.

Jackson useful ! " ejaculated hamilton
as the door closed. " Why the obstinate

old fool has ceased to be that for many
years, but here he's a positive encumbrance.
I declare he takes as much looking after as
all the rest of you. Isn't it so, Glanfield ? "

'•' Yes, high time he was taken out of harness
and turned out to grass'' responded
that gentleman.

"Which means, Mr. Glanfield ?" said

Mrs. Fullerton, sternly —

"Beg pardon, I forgot myself: that it is
about time old Jackson was pensioned off.
There is no tyranny so unsupportable as
that of an old servant. ''

Poor old Jackson ! " interposed Maude,
indignantly. " I won't have him run down
in this way. Why, I can recollect him as
long as I can recollect anything. He used
to give me surreptitious sweetmeats when I
was a child. He can't help growing old,
and it would hurt him dreadfully to suggest
that he was not as fit for his work as formerly.
Of course out here he don't understand
things."

vol. I. D

He understands how to grumble' retorted
Hamilton, for an instant forgetting
his role of lover ; " a more cross-grained old
brute and intolerable nuisance people travelling
for amusement never were burdened
with."

u Considering you've known him from a
boy, Fred, you might have a little more
patience with the old man's infirmities,"
retorted Maude, and with a slight toss of
her head she left the room.

Hamilton saw his mistake at once, but
he had been so long accustomed to patronise
his cousin that to play the lover came a
little difficult to him. He occasionally forgot
his part, and, anxious not to accept him in
that character, Maude, with feminine quickness,
invariably pounced upon such opportunities
as this gave her.

Who would have thought of Maude
taking up the cudgels so hotly on behalf of
that imbecile ? " exclaimed Hamilton,
with a rather forced laugh. " But I must

go and see about the carriages for tomorrow.
"

If Fred is really making love to Maude,
he rather put his foot in it that time," remarked
Mrs. Fullerton, after Hamilton
had left the room.

Why you surely don't think for one
moment that he has the slightest notion of
anything of that sort ? " exclaimed Cranfield.


Yes, I think he's a great idea of something
of that sort," replied the widow,
mimicking him. " I've no more doubt that
he is making love to Maude than I have
that you are making love to me."

"What!" cried Mr. Glanfield, almost
hounding from his chair.

Oh, don't be frightened," said Mrs. Fullerton,
with a ringing laugh. " I know you
mean nothing by it, and I don't mind it.
You look quite overcome hy the discovery :
ring for a glass of wine," and with another
peal of laughter the widow made her exit.

As for Mr. Glanfield, he remained for
some minutes in a state of almost stupor. If
he had been making love it had been most
unwittingly. Absurd ! This must be some
of Mrs. Fullerton's badinage. She was a
charming woman, a most agreeable companion.
He had enjoyed her society extremely,
despite her perpetually finding
fault with his racing slang, but hang it all !
no, he'd never made love to her. Then was
she right about Hamilton's making love
to Maude. Glanfield was very fond of
Maude, and had but a very poor opinion of
Hamilton. It was the instinctive repugnance
a high-minded honourable man has for
one whose ways are crooked ; and, though
Glanfield had never heard anything alleged
against Fred Hamilton, he felt pretty
sure that he was tolerably unscrupulous. He
did not all relish the idea of his pet Maude
being won by such a man as he deemed
Hamilton to be. Still, surely she could
not have forgotten Cyril Wheldrake ; and

here Mr. Glanfield shook his head, and with
the mental observation of how inch more
difficult women were to understand than
horses strolled out of the sitting-room.

The next morning at an early hour the
whole party were astir and ready for their
expedition. It was resolved that Sir Jasper
and Hamilton should occupy the first carriage,
with Jackson on the box, while Mrs.
Pullerton, Maude, and Glanfield followed in
the second. It had been settled that they
should travel in light marching order, so
that the impedimenta, including a comfortable
basket of comestibles and a hamper of
wine, were soon comfortably packed away.

Opposite the hotel door a man was adjusting
the bridle of his horse. He was on the
far side of the road, near one of the gates of
the Villa del Realee, and that bridle had for
some time apparently puzzled him — no
getting it to his liking anyhow ; but as the
carriages rolled beneath the portico of the
hotel that discontented horseman seemed to

solve the Gordian knot. In another moment
that bridle was adjusted, and, having swung
himself into the saddle, the horseman
rapidly disappeared in the direction of
Pompeii.

Forrard, forrard ! " cried Sir Jasper, as,
accompanied by Glanfield, he made his
appearance on the steps of the hotel.

Good gracious, Jasper ! " said his sister,
as she emerged from the door immediately
afterwards, glowing with satisfaction at the
conviction that her neat travelling-dress was
unimpeachable, el we're not going to cover,
you know, and the people here really do not
understand the fox-hunter's shibboleth."

The fair widow was delightful. No male
creature ever failed to some extent to yield
to her fascinations, but her mission was
to suppress sporting jargon, and she was
staunch to her mission.

I think we are really now quite ready,
Maudie, eh?" she said, interrogatively;
though, having required us to leave our

handmaidens behind us, you can never
expect us to be quite ready again till we
return. Never mind, we are decked for the
sacrifice."

Rather nicely decked, too," remarked
Glanfield ; " you and Maude both look as
fit as hands can make you.' ,

"Fit! Mr. Glanfield," said the widow,
with an assumption of intense gravity.

"Yes, fit as hands can make you," rejoined
Glanfield, quite unabashed. " I suppose
it is your milliners who do fit you, and
that they have hands "

Such equivocation as that, Mr. Cranfield,
will be remembered against you' said
Mrs. Fullerton, sternly, as she stepped in o
the carriage. " I regret it, but in justice to
my sex I must retaliate on the first opportunity."


But Sir Jasper gave the signal for starting,
and the carriages rolled onwards.
After a delicious, though somewhat hot
drive, Pompeii was reached at last, and,

after a cursory examination of its wondrous
remains, the party snatched a hasty luncheon,
and then proceeded to push on to
Amalfi, promising themselves to complete
their study of Pompeii on the return journey.
Soon after leaving Pompeii a horseman
passed them.

By Jove ! " exclaimed Hammer ton, " I
believe that is my friend of the pavilion in
the Villa del Eeale. Hi, Matteo — Signor
Matteo ! "

But the horseman, whoever he was, paid
no heed to Hamilton's hail, but trotted
on, and was soon lost round a turn of the
road. They had got by this time in a well-wooded,
but hilly country, and were descending
a sheepish dip, at the bottom of which
ran a brooklet, now some four or five feet
wide, and perhaps as many inches in depth,
but which it was easy to imagine an impassable
torrent in winter. On the far side of
this the road wound upwards through a
thick wood — forest would perhaps better

describe the mass of grand old trees and picturesque
glades that fringed the ascent on
either side.

Glanfield, who had sore misgivings that
the days of brigandage were by no means
over, was just thinking that if any of those
gentry were about a more appropriate place
in which to cry eC Stand and deliver" he had
never set eyes on, when he heard the word
"Stop" — that is to say its Italian equivalent
— shouted in sonorous tones.

Off your box, and go to your horses'
heads, or I fire ! " cried the speaker, sternly.

Drive on, you scoundrel ! " thundered
Sir Jasper.

Police ! police ! " shouted Jackson.

Glanfield sprang to his feet, and looked at
the carriage in front. The driver had tumbled
off his box with almost suspicious
alacrity. Sir Jasper and Hamilton were
standing up in the carriage, while on a small
hillock at the end of the wood stood a man,
whose carbine was now apparently levelled

vol. i. x

at Jackson, who was writhing on the box
like a cockchafer with a pin through it, at
the sight of that ominous barrel covering
him at about twenty paces, and still continuing
to vociferate police ! as he would
have done if assaulted in Mayfair. Across
the road were drawn some half-dozen men,
armed with muskets, who evidently only
awaited the behests of their leader ; while
others were visible on the edge of the road
on either side. Glanfield glanced back, but
four sturdy ruffians resting on their guns
barred retreat in that direction.

Please don't be frightened ! " he exclaimed.
" They won't hurt us, but merely
hold us prisoners till ransomed ; but we are
in the hands of brigands, caught like rats ina
trap. Resistance is useless, Sir Jasper,"
he shouted; "the rascals are in far too great
force for us to make a fight of it."

"The signor is sensible," replied Sarini,
for he was the leader of the bandits. " You
are perfectly safe if you make no resistance.

Struggle against the inevitable, and don't
blame me if your skins suffer."

He spoke in Italian, but it was of course
evident that he understood English.

Glanfield is right," said Hamilton.
"There is nothing for it but to submit.
Four unarmed men can't fight twenty with
guns in their hands. Hold your tongue,
you old idiot, you don't suppose there's a
gendarme within ten miles, do you ? "

"There's a gun within ten yards, Mr.
Red, pointed dead at me. Do ask him to
put it down. These foreigners are so careless
with firearms."

Hamilton, who, with the exception of
Mrs. Eullerton, was the only one of the
party who could speak Italian, called out to
Sarini that they surrendered, and the guns
were then lowered. Sarini ordered them all
to descend from the carriages. The brigands
removed the baggage with a celerity that
betokened much habitude to the unrighteous
shifting of trunks and properties, and then

the drivers of the carriages were sternly
ordered to continue their way to Amain,
and on no account to return before the third
day from that time.

Sarini then intimated to Hamilton that
the party must pursue its way on foot, that
they had not far to go, and that in consideration
of the ladies they would proceed
leisurely, while old Jackson was given to
understand that any further lifting of his
voice would necessitate his being gagged.

Do you think they'll draw our teeth,
Mr. Glanfield, if we don't fork out sufficiently,
like that king in the history of
England did ? He was a good deal in the
bandit line, wasn't he, sir ? "

end or VOL. I.

Westminster: Printed by Nichols and Sons, 25, Parliament Street, S.W.

3 0112 042046182

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

Smith
v/.2

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

The person charging this material is responsible for its
renewal or return to the library on or before the due date.
The minimum fee for a lost item is $125.00, $300.00 for
bound journals.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University. Please note: self-stick notes may result in
torn pages and lift some inks.

Renew via the Telephone Center at 217-333-8400
846-262-1510 (toll-free) orcirclib@uiuc.edu.
Renew online by choosing the My Account option 


% IWodtmnmtic £torn.

BY

HAWLEY SMART,

AUTIIOIl OP " Breeze LANGTON," " THE GREAT TONTINE," " AT FAULT,
PROM POST TO FINISH," ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON— CHAPMAN and HALL

LIMITED.

1885.

[All Rights llcscrvcd.~\

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

CONTENTS.

VOLUME II.

CHAP. PAGE



I. — Mountain Law
II. — " An al-fresco Hotel "
III. — Fixing the Ransom . . *
IV. — " Out Lives the Stake "
V. — Hamilton makes the best of things
VI. — Mrs. Fullerton on Marriage
VII. — Chisel on the Trail .
VIII. — Reappearance of Giovanni .
IX. — English Brigands
X. — " For Maude's Sake " .
XL — Wheldrake fulfils his Promise
XII. — The Game begins
XIII. — The Discovery
XIV. — A Stormy Outlook
XV. — Leroux has a Glass with Giovanni
XVI. — Chisel hears of his Master
XVII. — A Camp Revel
XVIII. — News from Naples
XIX. — The Fish bites





















CHAPTER I.

MOUNTAIN LAW.

Two days passed, and Wheldrake saw nothing
of Patroceni. Sarini, as at La Vicaria,
visited him daily to inquire after his health
and to ascertain if he required anything.
He was allowed to stroll about the camp
within certain limits, but saw that he was
jealously guarded. Any desire he expressed
that was within the power of his captors was
at once gratified. In answer to his demand
to see the Count, Sarini replied that his
Excellency was much disappointed at the
non-appearance of some English friends
whom he had expected, and whose society

VOL. II. B

he was sure would make the Signor's visit
most enjoyable, if the Signor would only
have a little patience. His Excellency was
away just now on a little matter of business,
but would be back that evening, and would
no doubt call on the signor.

u But what is the object of keeping me in
ignorance of the cause of my detention ? "

Pardon, signor; his Excellency explained
that you had thrust yourself: into
his affairs — an imprudent liberty to take
with a man of his stamp. His Excellency
has many irons in the fire, apt to burn the
fingers of people who meddle with them.
Will the signor accept one bit of advice ?
In this country, at al] events, don't be too
curious about how people get their living,"
and with this Sarini made the prisoner a low
bow and departed.

Yes, the bandit had no doubt the best of
the argument. He, Wheldrake, had set
himself deliberately to pump Giovanni with
a view to ascertaining what Patroceni was ;

and, thanks to that worthy's pet infirmity,
had discovered, as the Count said, too much.
He certainly had the strongest of reasons
for ascertaining what character Patroceni
bore in his own country. But Sarini was
right ; it was evidently best not to inquire
too closely into a gentleman's profession in
Italy. Then he wondered what had become
of Chisel. The valet, he knew, would be
sorely nonplussed at the disappearance of
his master. He was a shrewd, quick-witted
man, and in England would no doubt have
made speedy and effectual inquiry as to
what had become of him ; but he laboured
here under the great disadvantage of knowing
nothing of the ways of the country, and
being quite unable to speak the language.
Then, again, Wheldrake reflected that the
Italian police were not wont to put themselves
in a fuss about anything, much less
about the disappearance of a stray Englishman.
No ; he felt that he had little to hope
from police interference in his behalf; cb
2

sides, lie had heard over and over again that
in these cases of brigandage the police were
just as often as not in collusion with the
brigands. How it was all to end he knew
not. Patroceni, to all intents and purposes,
was supreme master of the situation. Then
he was evidently expecting daily to capture
Sir Jasper and his party. He could have
but one object — the ordinary one of his profession
— the exacting a heavy ransom ; and
apparently he preferred, in the language of
the auction-room, " to put them up in the
lump."

That evening, as Sarin i had said, the
Count made his appearance in Wheldrake's
tent. After a few courteous inquiries after
his health and the expression of some regret
as to the dulness of the life which Whelm
had been constrained to lead for the
past two days, Patroceni continued : " It is
most unfortunate, Mr. Wheldrake ; but business
took me from home and prevented my
fulfilling my duties as a host ; also our old

friends from Wrottsley have so far disappointed
me, but I think I can now promise
they will be with me tomorrow. In the
meantime, shall we while away the evening
with a hand at cards ? You used to be fond
of baccarat — and — lucky at it ! "

By Heavens ! " said Wheldrake, starting
to his feet, " do you think it is safe to taunt
the man you have ruined ? You are in the
midst of your men, and have plenty of help
within call, but remember I value my life
not a rush. Another such gibe and I'll
choke the coward's breath out of you, let
the consequences to myself be what they
may. 5 '

Bah ! " retorted the Count, with a contemptuous
smile, " don't talk like a blustering
schoolboy. Patroceni has proved his
manhood on many a well-fought field and
in many a personal encounter. Whatever
he may be, the police can tell you he is no
coward ; besides," he added, touching significantly
the hilt of the poignard he wore at

Lis belt, "it is not likely I should ever
require to call for assistance. Be patient,
Signor Wheldrake, we will have a little
game at baccarat. Once more I say be
patient ; it will interest you before we finish
it. Sarini, Sarini ! " he exclaimed, raising
his voice, and that worthy speedily appeared
at the tent door.

"Ah, Sarini," said the Count, "you are
fond of a little baccarat ; the signor complains
that he finds the evenings dull here ;
we must exert such poor talents as we have
to lighten them for him. Sit down, Mr.
Wheldrake. Before we commence, how
shall we play ? On the square or on the
cross ? " Once more Wheldrake sprang to
his feet.

"How dare you use such words to me?
you well know that I was innocent of
that juggling lie at Wrottsley. I decline
to play cards with you ; the supposition
that I would play unfairly is an insult.
I called you coward just now, sir. I

was right. What can be more cowardly
than to insult one who is completely in your
power ? ''

Pray be seated, signor ; listen. In the
civilised world in which you live there is a
prejudice against dexterous manipulations
of the cards. In the free air of the mountains
we are above such petty considerations
: we regard a man who cheats cleverly
much as you do a fine whist-player. It is
customary to settle beforehand which game
you will play. The signor, Parmi, has decided
to play upon the square."

And suppose," exclaimed Wheldrake,
now interested in spite of himself by the
Count's cool cynicism, " after this arrangement
any one should feel his old habits too
strong for him, and should resort to unfair
play, what then ? "

Ah! In the mountains that is attended
with some danger; it would depend somewhat
on whether he is detected, and a good
deal upon the temper of the detector. As

lie is pretty certain to be detected we may-say
it turns on the latter point."

"And the consequences?" inquired Whelm


Would be a mere case whether the detector
preferred shot or steel."

It was a glorious night. At a sign from
the Count, Sarini threw open the door to its
fullest extent and the moonlight flooded the
tent. Not a breath stirred the trees, and,
with the exception of the distant sounds of
voices and laughter from the main body of
the brigands congregated some two hundred
yards away at the further extremity of the
plateau, not a sound broke the stillness.
Wheldrake had noticed some little stir
amongst the band during the clay; there had
been much, furbishing of arms, oiling of
locks, filling of water-bottles, &c. When
one is forceable idle one notices all such
trivial circumstances ; it was the preparation
for such mimic war as these freebooters
made. The locusts of crime who

devour honest men's substance in all countries
manifest much method in their rapacity,
and surprise and deception are the
very essence of robbery. It had struck
Wheldrake that the " respectable farmers "
were preparing to receive Sir Jasper and his
party.

Pray be seated, Sarini. I have now explained
our mountain law to Sign or Whelm
As you know, he has elected to play
on the square; cheating is prohibited; " and
as he spoke the Count shuffled the cards.

Ah, your Excellency," said Sarini, with
a low laugh, u you are aware that no one
loves a turn with the cards more than I do ;
but, Excellency, do not forget that I must
be on the march two hours before daybreak,
and would fain snatch two or three hours'
sleep before leaving. We will play, but you
will not make it late ? "

Oh no, we will just while away two or
three hours ; as for the stakes, they are at
Mr. Wheldrake's discretion."

Wheldrake hesitated for a moment; he
did not in truth quite know what stake it
would be judicious to name — whether that
they had been accustomed to play at
Wrottsley or something lower.

The Count cut the knot for him by suggesting
the former, and in a few minutes the
cards were cut, and Wheldrake in a state of
bewilderment found himself playing baccarat
with two brigands on the heights above
Amain — a strange whirligig of chances ! He
little thought when he called Patroceni liar
on that fatal night at Wrottsley that the
next time he played cards with him would
be by the light of the moon amidst scenery
as lovely as Shakespeare paints the forest of
Ardennes.

The game proceeded with various fluctuations
at first, but it was not long before luck
had apparently settled down in favour of
Sarini, who scored deal after deal, and
whom it seemed hopeless to bet against.

Diavolo ! " exclaimed the Count," the

cards come to your call, simon. It would
be well for Mr. Wheldrake arid myself that
you were at rest."

It shall he as you will, gentlemen, for
another hour or so. I am a winner so far, but
your Excellency knows business requires
my early departure, and winner or loser
must permit my retiring to rest then."

Certainly, Sarini. Neither Mr. Whelm
nor myself are such faint-hearted
players that we cannot accept defeat. When
the moon disappears behind the big clump
of cedars we'll consider that the lights are
out and the game played."

Sarini rose and went to the door of the
tent, gazing out upon the glorious moonlight.


Ah I " he said at length, still standing
with his back to the tent, " I have near two
hours to give you yet, signors, in which to
recover your losses."

Pshaw ! Monsieur Wheldrake, we will
not take quite so long as that," hissed 

across the table. " Not a word !
Leave the thing to me, and I will show you
an old trick of the game of baccarat," and
as he spoke, quick as lightning the Count
produced two cards from his sleeve and
slipped them amongst the notes Sarini had
left on the table.

"Come, Sarini," continued he aloud, "if
we have so short a time in which to recoup
ourselves do not let us waste it. Pray keep
your admiration of the prospect for some
other evening."

There was another round or two of the
cards, when suddenly Patroceni exclaimed :
Pardon, Signor Sarini, it was understood
at the commencement of the game that the
play was to be fair. You know our mountain
law. To cheat or not to cheat is a
declaration at starting from which we never
swerve ; you have, Signor Sarini ; there are
false cards amongst your notes. You must
abide the usual consequence of an infraction
of the game."

If this be a jest of your Excellency's, I
can only say I think such fooling ill-timed."


Jest!" said the Count, fiercely, "do you
call this a jest ? " and as he spoke he tossed
Sarini's pile of notes lightly over and discovered
the cards he had placed there.

Those who hide know where to find,"
remarked Sarini, perfectly unmoved. " Your
Excellency's is a poor jest, and, as I am in
no mood for buffoonery, I'll betake myself
to rest."

Ah, you intend to take advantage of my
discovery to break off play, and retire with
your winnings. Good, signor ; I will take
my revenge in other fashion. You will
delay your journey some time, and give me
ten minutes at daybreak tomorrow."

Sarini rose leisurely from the table, and
gathered up the notes in front of him.

We have fought side by side, Excellency,
too often to doubt each other's manhood.
If you are in the same way of

thinking at daybreak, I will continue the
game in the way you propose. I have
the honour to wish you good night, gentlemen."



Rather au revoir, Signor Sarini, till
sunrise. 'Tis ill fencing with such a swordsman
as yourself by moonlight."

Wheldrake's first impulse had been to
spring to his feet, denounce the Count, and
take Sarini's part, but he bethought him of
the old adage that " when knaves quarrel
honest men come by their own," and remained
passive. In another minute the
idea dawned upon him that this was a new
comedy he was witnessing; a comedy got
up for his especial edification, though with
what motive he was at a loss to conjecture.
The Count was unfathomable, but he felt
pretty certain that Sarini was merely playing
a part. The Count was a born actor,
and could assume nearly any role he chose ;
and he had in his time played many parts.
The rumours about him were perfectly true.

Of a good Italian family, he had imbibed
revolutionary principles in his youth, and
been engaged ever since in every revolutionary
movement of his country. He had
been proscribed, imprisoned, condemned to
death ; his whole existence had been one of
disguise and intrigue. He had gambled for
political power all his life, and staked that
life again and again fearlessly on the result.
For if Patroceni desired a republic it was
one in which he would be the ruling spirit.
The old burlesque line rather describes his
republican opinions —

« Let's all be equal. I'll be king."

Be that as it may, his sagacity and daring
made him recognised as quite one of the
leading revolutionary chiefs.

Sarini was also a man of good family, and
of similar ideas. He had been Patroceni's
right hand for years, standing in the same
relation to him that Ney did to Napoleon.
But he had neither the brains of the Count,
nor those wonderful powers of personation

that made Patroceni so dangerous a conspirator.
He had played his part so ill tonight
that Wheldrake had speedily detected
the mockery of the quarrel, and recognised
that it was but a comedy rehearsed for his
special benefit.

Good night, Mr. Wheldrake," said ,
rising. " We are unfortunate in our
baccarat. Something always arises to mar
the harmony of the evening. Once more,
good night ! ,J

CHAPTER II.

AN AL-fresco HOTEL.' 5

The more Wheldrake thought over the
scene of the preceding night the more convinced
he was that the whole thing had been
a pure comedy got up in his behoof. Prom
his tent the next morning he could see
Patroceni lounging, smoking, and reading
or writing. Whatever had been the events
of the morning he, at all events, was none
the worse for them. And that threatened
duel between him and Sarini ? Wheldrake
came to the conclusion it had never taken
place, nor ever been intended to take place.
The more he thought over it the more convinced
he was that this was a mere rehearsal

VOL. II. c

of the affair at Wrottsley ; only upon this
occasion he had been admitted behind the
scenes, and allowed to see the machinery
that had worked his ruin. But what object
could Patroceni have, after blasting his life
in England, in revealing to him the way in
which it had been brought about ? and, once
more, what object could Patroceni have had
in such a diabolical plot against one who
had never injured him ? Prom what he had
seen of the Count he could imagine him
vengeful, hard, relentless when crossed, buta
man quite capable of even a magnanimous
action, and, cateran though he was, he was
neither a vulgar scandal-monger nor common
robber. Prom what Sarini had said, no
doubt he would have Sir Jasper and his
party in his keeping before many hours were
over. This could scarcely mean but one
thing — ransom ; and it struck him that he
could not do better than at once proceed to
discuss that point with the Count. Having
come to which conclusion he despatched a

message at once to Patroceni to say that if
he had leisure he should be glad to have a
little conversation with him.

The Count speedily made his appearance,
and suavely demanded if there was anything
he could do for Mr. Wheldrake's comfort.
"Any thing you like but baccarat,
signor. That seems destined to end uncomfortably
whenever you and I engage in
it," said Patroceni, laughing.

Pray be seated, Count," rejoined Whelm
" It is useless to resort to further
subterfuge. I am your prisoner. Let me
know at once in what light I am to regard
myself ; am I a prisoner held up to "

Stop ! " interposed Patroceni. " Pray
don't speak so coarsely of things. Regard
yourself, pray, as a guest in the worst and
most expensive hotel in Europe."

I don't understand you," rejoined
Wheldrake.

I should have given you credit for being
quicker. Having been obliged to trar> von
c2

I shall have to charge for the trouble. Have
a cigarette," and as he spoke the Count
tendered the handsome silver case he habitually
carried.

I understand now — you demand a ransom
? " rejoined Wheldrake.

Precisely so," replied Patroceni, with a
low bow. " My followers expect their little
perquisites ; grasping, perhaps, as country-house
servants usually are, but not opening
their months much wider than those of your
own country."

u And if I refuse, my life, I presume, is
the penalty."

No, not necessarily," rejoined the Count,
quietly, as he emitted a breath of pale blue
smoke from beneath his dark moustache.
« We generally begin with a finger or a
toe."

You mean mutilation ?"
You are dreadfully coarse in your remarks,
Mr. "Wheldrake. A mere reminder
to their friends that the matter is urgent."

"And if I refuse?"

Bah, mon ami, people never do refuse."


You have got a guest you never
reckoned on," rejoined Wheldrake, sharply.
"If I wanted to discover your whereabouts
it was for another purpose. Life ! No, I
don't value mine much. You know as well
as I do that the world is dead to me.
You've caught a bird scarce worth the
trapping, Count."

The old, old story ; but men change
their note with the first — ahem — shall it bean
ear or a finger ? For old days I would
wish to meet your views."

Death has no terrors for me," rejoined
Wheldrake, haughtily. " You are bargaining
with a man for his life who would as
lieve you took it."

Try another cigarette," rejoined Patron
quietly. " Contempt for death is all
very well in the abstract, or when one's
blood is up. Coolly considered, there is considerable

repugnance to parting with life.
I speak from experience 9

It may be," said Wheldrake, musingly.
I am curious to see what value you put
upon mine. Don't appraise it too highly, I
warn you. The sunshine has gone out of
it, and — I am fond of my relations."

"And, therefore, anxious to see them
again," rejoined the Count, drily.

"On the contrary, more solicitous they
should benefit by my death."

You must excuse my saying your conversation
is more witty than veracious.
Our widows, our mistresses, or our mothers,
are the sole women, as a rule, we care to
provide for. Mr. Wheldrake, to the best of
my belief, is blessed with none of those
ties."

You think I am afraid to die," retorted
Wheldrake, angrily.

"I think nothing of the kind," replied
Patroceni, as he lit a fresh cigarette, " for
the best of all possible reasons. I have

never as yet thought about it. That you
are in my hands is the result of your own
curiosity. I've no wish to meddle with
you, and have as yet not quite made up my
mind as to what I'll do with you."

At this moment one of the bandits
entered and whispered a few words into
Patroceni's ear, whose face immediately lit
up as a low laugh escaped him.

Tell me the real story of that night at
Wrottsley and I will willingly pay you five
thousand pounds for my freedom."

You are too late," returned the Count,
blandly. " I must ask you to excuse meas
I am expecting some friends of yours
every minute. Por the present, adieu."

As Patroceni strolled across to his hut
he muttered, " You were wrong, Hammer -
ton. Yes, very wrong; three thousand
pounds, and you said no. Here's the other
side already offering five. But, as matters
stand, another quarter of an hour at the
outside and I shall have fish in mv net

worth six times that. Thirty thousand,"
said the Count to himself as he rubbed his
hands softly, " is a nice little windfall."

At this moment Pietro emerged from the
wood, and, rapidly traversing the plateau,
approached Patroceni.

The travellers, Excellent. The English
milord and party. We have them — they
will be here directly' he said in a hoarse,
hurried whisper.

The Count responded by a quiet authoritative
nod of dismissal.

Poor Sir Jasper ! " he murmured, as he
threw himself into an armchair at the top
of the plateau, and lit a fresh cigarette, " it
seems a rather sorry return for his hospitality
; but he is a philosopher, or a man of
the world, which is better, and knows other
countries have other customs. However, I
don't want to meet my guests just yet, so
shall go for a stroll at the back of the
camp."

Patroceni had barely disappeared when

Sir Jasper and his party appeared upon the
plateau under the escort of Sarini and his
myrmidons.

You will pay for this, you scoundrels,"
said Sir Jasper, as he seated himself upon
a fallen tree; "you are interfering with
Englishmen remember, and the arm of
England is long."

We will take our chance of that. It is
possible to be out of reach of the longest
arm remember," rejoined Sarini with a contemptuous
smile. " Signers, pray be seated
you are at your journey's end," he continued,
speaking in broken English.

And these are brigands, Mr. Glanfield ?
Dear me, how exceedingly romantic ! What
will they do with us ? '

Empty our pockets to begin with, I
suppose, and draw our bankers' accounts
dry afterwards. Glad you find it romantic.
Always thought a game at; which I'd no
chance to win prosaic in the extreme myself."


"I don't understand you," said the widow.

Well, there's not much romance in attending
a — a — a garden party of this sort ;
it's expensive and uncomfortable. The sole
interest I feel in the whole thing is as to
what the bill will come to."

Now, Fred, what are we to do ? You
know the country. These scamps want
money of course. If this is their chief,"
and Sir Jasper indicated Sarini, " tell him
to let us know the worst at once. Ask him
what will satisfy him."

There's no great cause of alarm, uncle.
Bled in the pocket we must expect to be.
A couple of days' inconvenient bivouacking
is all that is likely to happen to us. You
will have to rough it with a vengeance,
Maud, I fear."

Oh, never mind me ; I shall manage
well enough ; but, father, I have heard these
men are at times hard to deal with. They
fix their ransoms high, and are cruel if their
terms are not speedily complied with''

"Don't fret, my dear," replied Sir Jasper.
Red, let's see the leader of these men at
once''

That's it, Sir Jasper ; that's it'' cried
Glanfield. " Now you'' he continued, motioning
to Sarini, " where are the stewards
of this meeting ? Put that into their jargon,
Hamilton — the fools never understand
English."

And Italian wasn't taught when you
went to school, except in the obsolete form
of Latin," interposed Mrs. Eullerton.

Well, I can't say I ever fancied myself
much at Latin," replied Glanfield.

Oh dear, what a provoking man he is ! "
said Mrs. Eullerton to herself ; " to fancy
some one else is what is required of him."

Hamilton now moved across to Sardinian
saying that he presumed he was the
chief of the band in whose hands they were,
was about to propose discussing their ransom
with him when he was stopped by a
rapid disclaimer on Sarini's part.

46 No, signor ! I am not the chief of these
men — I am only second in command; bnt
ah ! here comes his Excellency to speak for
himself," and as he spoke he waved his
hand in the direction of his hint from behind
which the Count was now seen approaching.

"Count Patroceni ! " burst from all lips,
as the party sprang simultaneously to their
feet, while Jackson was heard to murmur,
sotto voce, that there was no knowing whereto
have these foreigners.

A surprise, gentlemen, doubtless," exclaimed
the Count, with a low bow ; " but
fate — and business — draw people together
all over the world. Depend upon it, ladies,
you shall be made as comfortable as circumstances
will admit of during your stay
with me."

If this is a jest, Count, the sooner it is
put an end to the better," said Hamilton,
sternly.

It is very odd," replied the Count, as if
addressing an imaginary audience, "people

always think I am jesting. If ever a man
led a life of serious purpose I have done so.
My dear friend, I keep an al-fresco hotel,"
he continued, addressing Hamilton, " and
induce all travellers whom I can to visit my
establishment. The air is bracing, and you
will find both the wine and cookery fair.
My guests always benefit much by their
residence here. Upon one point only do weever
differ. After the manner of my class,
I require all bills settled before leaving ; and,
as in other hostelries, there is sometimes a
mauvais quart there over that little affair."

Does the man really mean he is chief of
the bandits ? " said Mrs. Fullerton.

Yes, that's about his social position,"
replied Glanfield. " Now, Count," he continued,
turning sharply to Patroceni, " the
sooner we proceed to business the better.
We know that we are in the rat-trap. How
much for opening the door r "

Oh, it's a pleasure to meet a real man of

business," rejoined Patroceni. " What a
lesson for you, mon cher" he added significantly
in an aside to Hamilton. " Thirty
thousand pounds will settle the bill for the
whole party."

Thirty thousand pounds ! " ejaculated
Glanfield. " You must be mad, Count."

Impossible ! " almost screamed Mrs.
Fullerton. "That means the pledging of
our diamonds and sackcloth for years."

Impossible ! " exclaimed Sir Jasper; " you
cannot seriously mean to place such a price
upon our liberty ? "

Thirty thousand pounds," said hamilton.
" What does this mean ? "

In two or three strides Patroceni was by
his side.

It means, sir," he hissed into hamilton's
ear, "that you refused me my percentage
on the portion of the bride I helped
you to ! It means that I intend to have it
all now. It means that I consider the

lady fair enough to be taken for her own
sweet self."

"I say! this won't do, you know," exclaimed
Glanfield. " We haven't won the
Derby or anything of that sort. Thirty
thousand pounds is a very large amount of
money."

Which you will speedily make up
amongst you," replied the Count. " I will
leave you to talk it over amongst yourselves;
I hate intruding upon these little
family arrangements. The ladies will find
that hut all ready for their accommodation
whenever they may wish to retire to it. For
the present I will bid you adieu."

And with these words Patroceni retired
towards the further tent.

He surely cannot mean that he fixes
our ransom at thirty thousand pounds," said
Sir Jasper, uneasily, after a considerable
pause.

Never saw a man who looked more determined
to have his money. He had that

particularly suave, courteous manner that
always characterises the ruthless creditor.
When they storm and bluster there's hope ;
but when they're so horribly silky they not
only mean having their money but having
it pretty soon."

You surely don t think, Mr. Glanfield,
that Count Patroceni means to keep us here
till we have raised such a monstrous sum as
thirty thousand pounds? Surely it is all
braggadocio, and one or two thousand is the
outside he would actually price our liberty
at. Upon my word, Red, you had better
be a little more careful in future about the
acquaintances you pick up abroad." And
Mrs. Eullerton favoured her nephew with a
glance which spoke volumes.

For the first time the party had awoke to
the consciousness of the situation being
serious. They were beginning to recognise
now that their freedom was not a matter of
a few hundreds, with all the romance of
having been for a few days in the hands of

real bandits, but a matter of many thousands
and detention till such time as so
large a loan could be obtained ; and, however
good the security, thirty thousand
pounds is a sum not to be raised at short
notice without reference to the children of
Israel.

I'm afraid, aunt, I've made a great mistake,"
said Hamilton, humbly.

By Jove, I should rather think you had.
Your friend Patroceni's about the biggest
welcher I've foregathered with for many a
day," exclaimed Glanfield.

"Welcher, Mr. Glanfield!" cried Mrs.
Fuller ton.

Beg pardon • no reflection on the Ancient
Britons, though, no doubt, like most
cloudless people, they collared everything
that came in their way. I mean a class of
men well known on the racecourse, who
may be described as living by the 
business ; pocket-picking would
perhaps more accurately describe it to you."

VOL. II. D

And you think the Count's in that
line ? " inquired Sir Jasper.

Yes," replied Glanfield, drily, "and
pretty well top of the class."

CHAPTER III.

FIXING THE RANSOM.

At length it had fairly dawned upon the
whole party that falling into the hands of
Italian brigands had a really serious side toit;
that, though their freedom might be only
a matter of money, yet that it might be
priced so highly as to make them poor for
many a long day, if not for life. Thirty
thousand pounds ! They could raise it
amongst them in time do doubt, but it
would necessitate a long stay at Parochial
fresco hotel ; and they all began to recall
stories of the brutal treatment which these
scoundrels sometimes inflicted on their
n 2

captives. Stories of mutilation, aye, of cold-blooded
murder, occurred to them; and from
treating their situation rather with jocularity
they turned round and began to take
a most gloomy view of their position. As
Glanfield expressed it, "the starch was all
out of their collars now."

"What are we to do?" exclaimed Sir
Jasper.

What will become of us ? What will
happen, Fred, if we do not pay all this
money ? " asked Maude, in quavering
tones.

We shall probably be detained till we
have paid something," replied Hamilton.
We must come to some sort of arrangement
with this fellow Patroceni."

The fellow, bear in mind, was your intimate
friend, and introduced by you to a
London club, and to some slight extent to
English society," said Glanfield, sharply.

I should suggest Captain Hamilton
exerts his influence, which is, of course, all

powerful with this— this foreign nobleman,"
said Mrs. Fullerton, querulously.

Don't be unkind, aunt. Fred was deceived,
like the rest of us," interposed
Maude, tearfully.

Tell you what it is, Sir Jasper," remarked
Glanfield, dogmatically : " there's
only one thing to do, it appears to me, that
is, to leave Hamilton and myself to make
the best terms we can with his rascally
friend. Here, you sir, where are you going
to lodge us ? "

Pietro, who chanced to be the brigand
addressed, replied, " I will send the Signor
Sarini."

"What the deuce does he say?" asked
Glanfield.

"That he will send the Signor Sarini tous.
He evidently does not understand your
question."

Another moment and Sarini appeared,
and with a polite bow requested to know
what he could do for the ladies ; and, upon

Mrs. Fullerton acquainting him with their
desires, at once motioned them towards the
hut.

Yes, that will do," exclaimed Glanfield.
Now, Sir Jasper, if you will take care of
Mrs. Fullerton and Maude, Hamilton and
I will try and negociate with the head
bandit."

Ah, father!" cried Maude, passionately,
and it was upon the testimony of this
bandit that you condemned Cyril''

No," said Sir Jasper, as he sadly shook
his head. " There was the evidence of my
own eyes to boot. Come, do the best you
can for us, Glanfield," and then the baronet
turned and somewhat ruefully led the way
towards the hut. He was a liberal, freehanded
gentleman, and would have laughed
at being mulcted in any moderate sum in
order to extricate himself from the scrape
he had got into, regarding it much as he
would have looked at a bad night at cards
in his younger days; but thirty thousand

pounds, of which he would have to find hy
far the largest part, for he could look to
nobody but Clan field to help in making up
such an unconscionable demand, was no
flea-bite. He had already begun to recognise
that it would have to be found. He
could not permit either his sister or daughter
to suffer such detention as this if any
money he could raise would restore them to
liberty, and he already perceived that, if
Patroceni was very suave and polite, he was
equally stern and relentless. It was the
affability of the cat to the mouse within its
claws, the purring of the tiger before its
spring.

Now, Hamilton, the sooner this is
settled the better. Signor Sarini, perhaps
you wouldn't mind letting the Count know
we wish to speak to him."

Si, signor," replied Sarini, and rapidly
disappeared into the further tent.

Now, Hamilton, I don't want to be
unpleasant," said Glanfield, " but Sir Jasper

has placed this business in my hands, and
I'm going to play my hand alone. I shall
be glad to have your help of course, but we
run in different interests. You, as usual,
for yourself, I for Sir Jasper and the rest
of us."

You do me injustice," rejoined hamilton,
hotly. " You cannot understand —
you cannot know."

No, I rather wish I did," replied Cranfield,
dryly. " I should like dearly to get at
the rights of that night at Wrottsley, and
find out by what juggling Cyril Whel drake
was made to appear a cards harper. I have
an idea that you could explain the Count's
little game if you chose. Ah ! here he
comes."

Patroceni lounged up to them in his usual
courteous manner, for all the world like a
country gentleman about to propose the
diversion of the day to his guests.

You did me the honour to send for me,
gentlemen. Nothing serious to find fault

with in your accommodation, I trust; if it
is rude, remember in these mountain solitudes
we are some distance from the railway
and civilisation."

Glanfield looked at him for a minute, nota
little perplexed at the persistent manner
in which Patroceni regarded them as guests
and ignored the fact that they were his
prisoners.

Now, Count," he said at last, " let's
proceed to business. It's waste of time
haggling about the price when you really
mean dealing, but thirty thousand pounds
is rather too stiff."

It is merely the marriage portion of
Captain Hamilton's elected bride, and can
any one suppose he would wish to marry
Miss Eversley for anything but herself ? "

Scoundrel ! traitor ! liar ! " exclaimed
Ilammerton.

"Dangerous words in our relative positions,
but no matter. He wanted to marry
his cousin, Miss Eversley, or rather her

fortune," rejoined Patroceni, quietly. " I
assisted at that little business at Wrottsley,
which crushed his rival, Wheldrake."

The blood rushed to Hamilton's temples
; he bit his lips, and, taking a couple of
steps towards Patroceni, seemed about to
rush upon him, but, quick as thought,
Sarini and one or two more brigands intervened,
and Hamilton, mastering his passion,
remained motionless.

I demand my per-centage on that fortune,"
continued the Count with a shrug
of his shoulders. "Ah! he has no judgment.
He is mad enough to refuse me — Me !
Presto ! Another shuffle of the cards, and
now I take the whole pool."

"Liar! " thundered Hamilton, furiously.

Stop, sir ! " said Patroceni, fiercely,
don't go too far. I warn you. I have sent
in tongues as well as fingers to testify to the
urgency of prompt payment of a ransom ere
now. As I said before, I shall take the
whole pool."

Please hold your tongue, Hamilton ;
I should in your case pretty closely, if I set
any value on it. It is only children who
quarrel over matters of business. When a
man is master of the situation what is the
good of saying he became so unfairly ? No
use objecting when you can't sustain it."

You are a man of business, signor," rejoined
Patroceni, politely. " It is quite a
pleasure to deal with you."

It is no use, Count, killing the goose
with the golden eggs," rejoined Glanfield,
significantly.

The sum named is absurd," interposed
Hamilton, with blustering vehemence.
"I'd never submit to such infamous extortion."


Oh, hang it ! I say," exclaimed Cranfield.
" You have bolted clean out of the
course. The extortion don't concern you
much — you are not going to find the
money."

No, Captain," rejoined Patroceni, contemptuously,

" I should have hardly deemed
you worth the trapping."

Thirty thousand pounds, Count," continued
Glanfield, "is an enormous ransom."

There is risk in meddling with you
English," rejoined Patroceni. " I always
calculate whether the game is worth the
candle. Thanks to him " — and here he
pointed scornfully at Hamilton — "I know
it is, and that is the price I put upon you."

"And if we say no, what then ?" inquired
Glanfield.

It will he uncomfortable for you all,"
replied Patroceni, "very uncomfortable for
some of you. My wolves don't like waiting
for their share of the plunder."

And supposing we consent ? " said Mr.
Glanfield, quietly.

It is very simple," replied the Count.
One of you will go back to Naples to get
the money — settle whom among yourselves ;
on his return with it you will be free ; but if
my spies or scouts give notice of treachery

there will be a short shrift for the rest of

you."

I understand' replied Glanfield. " You
will let us talk this over amongst ourselves
? "

Certainly, signor," replied the Count.
Tell Sarini there to let me know when you
have come to a decision."

And with these words Patroceni strolled
leisurely off in the direction of his own tent.

Now the question lies in a nutshell'
said Glanfield. " We've got to find thirty
thousand pounds ; that means Sir Jasper has
mainly, for I can't do a great deal towards
it, and you, I presume, less."

No, I don't think the Count would
fancy my I o u's," sneered Hamilton.

"Well, they're not popular, as a rule,"
rejoined Glanfield.

Sir, do you mean to insinuate ? "

Of course not. I only mention facts.
There's a prejudice generally about that sort
of security."

My bills, Mr. Glanfield, are, I have no
doubt, as freely accepted as your own."

I dare say ; but what is the use of
arguing about an obsolete coinage not in
circulation here? Sir Jasper pays; now,
who's to go ? How are we to settle that ? "

Leave it to Patroceni," rejoined hamilton,
curtly.

Good. Here, signor, let the Count
know we wish to speak with him."

Si, signor," replied Sarini, who, in consequence
of his knowledge of English, had
been told off as personal attendant on the
prisoners.

We shall not be allowed much time to
negociate matters," remarked Hamilton,
musingly.

Patroceni now issued from the far tent in
accordance with Sarini's summons ; and,
walking across towards them, seated himself
on a fallen tree, and smoked on in silence.

We must do the best we can to accede
to your terms, Count," said Glanfield, after

a short pause; " but it is, of course, necessary
that one of us should return to Naples
to make arrangements."

"Quite so," replied the Count. "To Sir
Jasper, as the moneyed man in the firm, I
shall still offer hospitality."

I presume so ; you shall also settle
which of us goes to Naples."

"It is settled," replied Patroceni, laconically.


Settled already ! " interposed hamilton,
sharply. " I thought we were to make
our own arrangements ? "

"Well, not quite," rejoined Patroceni.
"Ah, stop! Another idea — chance, chance
shall decide."

This is no time for jesting, Count,"
said Hamilton, savagely.

No, especially as far as you are concerned.
1 think you had better draw lots."

Yes, that's as good a way of deciding it
as any," said Glanfield.

Hah ! and now I think of it," — as if the

idea had just struck him, — " the game will
be much more interesting with three players.
Don't disturb yourselves, gentlemen. I
have here an old play-companion of yours,
who will enjoy another game with you both.
You shall all draw straws. The man with
the longest straw is out, the others to draw
again. He with the longest straw is again
ont. The third goes, and carries all your
lives in his hand. Excuse me one moment,
I will fetch this countryman of yours, now
so fortunately staying with me."

Who can this stranger be whom he has
picked up ? " said Hamilton, impatiently.
You and I tossing up who is to go is allas
it should be, but what the deuce hasa
stranger got to do with our affairs ? "

Our affairs ! " rejoined Glanfield, with a
contemptuous glance at his companion. si I
should call it Sir Jasper's affair. However,
it strikes me we are pretty much in the
hands of Count Patroceni to dispose of us ashe
w r ill. I have no doubt he means what

he says ; but remember one thing, if you
try any of your juggling this time you will
probably cost us all our lives."

At this moment Patroceni reappeared
from the tent, followed by Wheldrake.

Good heavens ! Cyril "

Wheldrake, bv all that's damnable ! "
cried Hamilton. " What cursed chance
brought him here? "

"Ah! gentlemen," said Patroceni, "there
was some little difference amongst you, I
think, the last time you met ; but if I recollect
right Mr. Wheldrake had a presentiment
that you would meet again and play
for rather higher stakes than you were playing
that evening ; and, if I remember right,
Captain Hamilton, Wheldrake pointed
out to you that it would be his turn to win.
It looks rather as if this forecast of his is
about to be accomplished. You three, Mr.
Wheldrake, are about to draw lots as to
which of you will proceed to Naples to raise
the ransom I have placed upon your party ;

VOL. II. E

and, gentlemen, I say emphatically, pray
hear in mind that, should that negociation
fall through, it will he very unfortunate for
the men who are left behind. "

Hamilton's face blanched; superstitious,
like all gamblers, he felt too sure that he
would be the loser this time. Wheldrake's
last words again rang in his ears : " We
shall play once again, our lives the stakes,
and it will be my turn to win." He glanced
at his antagonist, for already he had put
Glanfield on one side as having no part in
the game. It was a duel between him and.
Wheldrake ; and, as he glanced at Cyril's
set face and glittering eyes, his heart sank
with a foreboding that "Wheldrake's words
would prove true. Patroceni, too, was the
arbiter of this lottery, and the Count was
little likely to favour him after what had
passed between them. On the whole, Pinkerton
could not divest himself of the idea
that he would not be allowed fair play,
besides having to face his antagonists' luck.

Chapter IV.

u OUR LIVES THE STAKE."

It was a striking scene : the sun still
topped the trees, and there in the centre of
the plateau, around the fallen tree, stood
these three players at this game for life and
death, which was about to begin. At a few
paces distant were grouped the majority of
the brigands, curious to see who might bethe
lucky scapegoat ; lucky in this instance,
insomuch as he did not carry the sins of the
people, but only the price at which they
were appraised, leaving them to expiate
their own iniquities, until he brought back
the pence of absolution.
e 2

Patroceni, with his back turned towards
them, was engaged in receiving from Sarini
some half-score wheaten straws, from which
he proceeded to carefully select three.
Turning round, he held these three straws,
of various lengths, high in the air.

The game is about to begin, gentlemen,"
he exclaimed, in clear, ringing tones,
so that his followers could hear what he
said. " The man drawing the longest straw
retires, the two others fight the battle out,
and he who holds the shortest goes to
Naples and is in safety : for the others, it
will depend if their friends value their
society as highly as I do — I who would
see them die sooner than be deprived of
it."

A low murmur of applause followed 's
cynical speech, which was couched
in Italian for the benefit of his comrades.
As for the chief actors in the drama about
to be enacted, Glanfield looked on with
calm curiosity, but between the other two

passed glances of hatred — bitter and unforgiving.


Now, gentlemen,' * said Patroceni, as lie
lifted the sombrero and placed it over his
right hand, "the play is about to commence."
Eor a few seconds his two hands
were busy beneath his hat, then the sombrero
fell to the ground, and discovered his right
hand almost enveloped in a gaily coloured
silk handkerchief, the extreme top only —
that is, the part between the forefinger and
thumb — alone was visible, and from that
peeped the heads of three straws.

May I trouble you to draw, gentlemen ?
Signor Wheldrake, as the guest who has
been longest with me, I will ask you to
draw first."

With pleasure, Count," rejoined Whelm
fiercely ; " the game is already a foregone
conclusion — it is either Glanfield or
myself: as for that hound" — pointing to
Hamilton — " if there's any shooting to be
done you will find him still with you.

Captain Hamilton, would you like one
more bet before we begin ? I will lay you
ten sovereigns that I give you a loser, and I
name yourself. Ha, ha, you won't bet ! " he
exclaimed, with a burst of derisive laughter,
as Hamilton made no response. "He
has plenty of pluck at play when he can
tamper with the cards at will, but when it
comes to playing for his life, and all chicanery
is beyond his reach, he blanches
like the cur he is. Look at him, Cranfield!"


Hamilton, indeed, was pale as death ;
his eyes gleamed with mingled hate, rage,
and terror, like those of a trapped animal ;
but this last taunt roused him, and it was
with something of his old savage temper
when excited that he hissed out —

Liar ! the game as yet is not played out
between us."

u No," sneered Wheldrake. " Ties as yet,
but here goes for the trick ! " and as he
spoke he stepped up to the Count, aud

lightly twitched a straw from between his
fingers.

"Captain Ranimerton," said the Count,
"as my old friend" — and it is impossible to
describe the sarcastic inflexion upon these
last words — " may I trouble you to draw
next?"

Hamilton took one of the remaining
straws, and then, stepping back, gave place
to Glanfield, who, without waiting to be
called, stepped forward, and quietly took
the remaining straw from Patroceni's
hand.

Bring up your straws, gentlemen, to be
measured;" and as he spoke he took the
straw back from Glanfield's hand. Whelm
and Hamilton hastened to return
their straws also, and in a moment the
Count declared that Glanfield had drawn
the longest straw, and was consequently out
of it.

Now, gentlemen," continued Patroceni,
as he once more arranged the straws under

his sombrero, " we will — all ! what do you
call it?"

Rim the deciding heat," rejoined Cranfield,
promptly.

Will you once more oblige me ? " said
the Count, courteously.

Wheldrake, as before, stepped forward,
and carelessly twitched a straw from 's
hand, leaving Hamilton the
other. Another instant the Count, having
stretched forth his hand to receive Whelm
straw back, compared the two, and
adjudged Wheldrake the winner.

"Mr. Wheldrake, gentlemen, is your
ambassador to Naples. The rest of you will
honour me with your company a little
longer. Mr. Wheldrake, you will start
about an hour before day-break. Sarini
will make every preparation for your
journey, and be your guide as far as you
require one. I recommend you to go to
rest as soon as you have had your dinner.
You know as well as I do you have a

couple of hard days' travel before you, and
you are on business, signor, that brooks not
delay. For the rest of you, gentlemen,
your wants shall be attended to as far as
means permit. Once more I say adieu ; and
to you, perhaps, Mr. Wheldrake, good-bye.
Still, remember this business once adjusted,
you are free of the mountains for life, and
will find 'the safe conduct' of Patroceni
more powerful than a troop of gendarmes*'

My dear Cyril, I am delighted to meet
you again, and we will all gladly trust you
to arrange for our extrication from our
present unpleasant position. I was afraid
it was to be left to that specious scoundrel
and hypocrite, whom, from what I now
know, I should be loth to trust with my
dog's life, much less my own."

"You will answer for such words as
those, Mr. G-lanfield," said Hamilton, his
face pale with passion.

I will repeat them, and stand to them
at every club in London, if you will. We

know now why your ruin was plotted,
Cyril."

And I think I can tell you how it was
done''

If you are going to believe all the tales

that arch-scoundrel Patroceni tolls you "

exclaimed Hamilton, in a voice hoarse
with passion.

Your intimate friend, remember," interposed
Glanfield, sarcastically, " whom we
know now to be a robber, a villain."

"But a man, Captain Hamilton," interrupted
Wheldrake. " He may threaten
our lives, but he does not stab characters in
the dark."

(i You will both account to me when we
regain our freedom," snarled Hamilton ;
"but remember it was Count Patroceni
discovered and denounced your foul play at
Wrottsley, not me, Mr. Wheldrake."

I have my own idea about that," said
Glanfield. " Men like the Count sell their
swords or their talents wherever they are

well paid for it. He has told us the price
he demanded for his services. You refused
it ! You thought him your tool, and you
have found him your master. We may get
safe out of his clutches, hut I wouldn't take
fifty to one about you. Come along,
"Wheldrake, I want a short chat with you
before you are 'racked up for the night'" —
and the two men strolled away towards
Wheldrake' s tent.

Hamilton seated himself on the fallen
tree, and muttered execrations upon his ill-luck,
which had been letter bestowed on
his evil doings. Then he began to consider
the desperate position in which he stood.
These two men had cast him out from
amongst them like a pariah. Just as society
had cast out Wheldrake, so would society
cast out him when he, Wheldrake, should
reappear amongst them and tell the story of
that night's play at Wrottsley, with which it
was evident he had been made acquainted.
Supported by a man like Glanfielcl the

charge would be too big for him to face ;
moreover there was his confederate, who
might always be induced to confess. He
had bought him, but the fellow knew his
power, and had more than once since comedown
for sums in excess of the stipulated
price of his assistance ; indeed only just
before he left England Hamilton received
an urgent appeal for another twenty pounds.
The request was couched respectfully, but
Hamilton knew only too surely that it
was but the forerunner of a threatening
communication. Hamilton knew human
nature too well to doubt that. He bitterly
repented his folly ; he was quite aware that
to pay your confederate in crime and think
you have done with him is a mistake no
man of the world can be pardoned for
falling into. He knew very well that,
unless you have the rope, or pretty near
its equivalent, round the neck of the man
you have suborned he first becomes a
suppliant for alms, then the mendicant

grows audacious ; finally lie threatens, and
the end is " change," or " black mail " as
we call it in England. He had disregarded
this man's letter because he was leaving the
country. Abroad he would be beyond the
reach of his menaces ; and were he, hamilton,
only safely married to his cousin,
he could afford to laugh at his threats. Now
all was changed. To marry Maude would
be sheer madness now that her fortune was
gone, or as good as gone. To face England
again would be difficult. Still a wealthy
marriage was the one chance he had of
repairing his shattered fortunes, and where
was handsome Red Hamilton to accomplish
that save in England ? He was in a
deuce of a scrape no doubt. Sir Jasper and
the ladies of course had not as yet heard
Patroceni's allegation against him, but it
wasn't likely that Glanfield would leave
them much longer in ignorance on that
point. It would simplify things amazingly
if Patroceni should take it into his head to

shoot both Glanfield and Wheldrake ; but
bah ! what was the use of speculation of this
kind ? Wheldrake was to go to . Naples to
arrange about the ransom that night, and
Glanfield — ah ! what did that fellow mean
by saying that they might escape ? but that
he wouldn't take fifty to one about his —
Hamilton's — chance ? Was his life absolutely
in danger ? His honour was gone
already, his money had left him long ago ;
his last throw for wealth had fallen decease
on the board ! Was his life to go too ?
He had as much courage as the generality
of men, but he clung to life. Many men
who had lost honour, fortune, and bride,
would have deemed it but little worth
keeping. Men in Hamilton's position —
aye, in half his position — have died by their
own hand, many a time and oft ! To some
of these unfortunates the idea of loss of
honour has been unendurable, to others loss
of wealth has been a bitterness they shrank
from facing, but Hamilton's fine feelings

had been long ago blunted. He argued that
he was too young to die, that his career was
so far from ended there was plenty of time
to recover himself; and then, he thought,
how did he really stand with Patronise
had scouted the Count's proposition in
London, had thrown hard words at him
since he had been his prisoner. It was
foolish of him ! Stupid to lose his temper in
this wise ! You can hardly indulge in the
luxury of abusing a man who holds your
life at his disposal. Ah ! why had he not
kept his temper ? Would Patroceni revenge
himself for these insults ? Would he forgive
him for having refused to accede to his proposal
of percentage on Maude's fortune ?
What was he to do ? How was he to makepeace
with his dear friend of former days ?
And here Hamilton fell into a brown
study ; for, schemer and plotter as he was,
he saw no solution of this problem.

Jackson had accompanied his master and
the ladies into the hut to assist in unstrapping

the baggage, &c., and at once displayed
the utter helplessness that might be
expected from the confidential old family-butler
under such circumstances.

Nonsense, Jackson," said Sir Jasper, in
answer to some querulous complaint of the
former's, " we shall do very well here. You
don t expect to find the accommodation of
Wrottsley in the mountains, do you ? "

Why, Sir Jasper, that there Count
bragged of his country-seat ' audacious '
when he was there. I heard him myself at
your own table ; and to think I was pouring
out our best champagne for a throat-splitting
scoundrel whose trade is robbing and whose
country-seat's a hovel like this. I wish I
was safe in the dog-kennel at Wrottsley this
minute ; it'd be a blessed change. Do you
think, Sir Jasper, we'll be murdered in our
sleep to-night ? "

I think, if the Count hears you call him
a throat-splitting scoundrel, he'll be tempted
to make your words come true. You'd

better curb your tongue if you value your
life. Clara," he continued, " can you
manage in there ? "

Oh, yes," replied Mrs. Pullerton. " If
it was only the accommodation I should
think nothing of it, but our situation is very
serious. There can be no doubt that our
lives are at stake if we fail to find this
money."

Don't fret, Clara ; don't get frightened.
The scrape is serious enough, Heaven knows.
We must find the money and part with it,
but I believe our lives to be safe."

Patroceni, in a rough way, had made evident
preparation for his prisoners, or guests,
as he would have termed them. The hut
consisted of two rooms ; the inner had been
fitted up with a couple of beds, a rude toilet-table
with looking-glass, two washing-stands,
&c, and was meant for the accommodation
of the ladies. The outer had a low pallet-bed
in one corner, a good sized table in the
middle, and some half-dozen chairs and

VOL. II. f

stools; this was to be their living-room.
The Count in fact had fitted up his own hut
to the best of his ability for his visitors.

Jackson in the meantime continued to
potter over his master's dressing-bag in a
most disturbed state of mind. Two things
harrowed his soul : would his life be spared ?
and where was his bed-room ? If that pallet-bed
was destined for Sir Jasper, Jackson
feared the accommodation for the servants,
even the upper servants, must be mean —
terribly mean.

Chapter V.

HAMMERTON MAKES THE BEST OF THINGS.

The afternoon shades were beginning to
fall across the plateau. A slight breeze
sighed through the surrounding trees, barely
rustling their leaves. It was the end of the
siesta hour, but as yet the camp seemed
locked in slumber. The brigands were
sleeping on the edge of the woods, the
others within the hut or tents. One figure
alone was to be seen on the strip of grass
table-land. Seated on the fallen tree which
laid very near the centre of the plateau was
Hamilton, still immersed in reverie. He
had sat there, changing his position but
f2

little, for over an hour. No : look at it
which way he would, he could see nothing
but ruin for himself accruing out of the
accursed mischance that had thrown them
into Patroceni's hands. His life undoubtedly
was in danger, whatever might be the
case with the others. Glanfield was right
about that ; but was it not possible to avoid
social ruin should he have the good fortune
to be rescued with the rest ? Wheldrake
no doubt must bear a bitter grudge against
him, but he could not assist the rest of the
party without assisting him. He did not
place much reliance on the Count's forbearance
; but, let them tell what story they
would about him, he felt sure that Sir
Jasper would never consent to his life being
sacrificed ; his uncle was too true and loyal
a gentleman for that. If Glanfield and 
did succeed in convincing Sir Jasper
of his, Hamilton's, treachery at Wrottsley,
well, then, the worst that could happen to
him would be to be discarded by his uncle,

and to find the doors of Wrottsiey closed
to him in the future. True there was the
social excommunication with which Cranfield
had threatened him, but after all Glans
and Wheldrake knew nothing but what
Patroceni had told them — it was the word
of an avowed brigand against his. Popular
'Fred Hamilton could surely hold his own
against this specious adventurer who had
imposed upon him in the first instance ; and
then, throwing off all disguise, appeared in
his true colours, and ruthlessly plundered his
victim and the friends that victim had introduced
him to. No ; Hamilton thought
it was quite possible to pose as the interesting
martyr and obtain much sympathy from
society.

True there was one blot in his game : that
dissatisfied confederate of his had to be
reckoned with, and was likely to be either
an expensive incubus or prove the quicksands
of his career, and then he bethought
him that there was a good deal in having

the first word. Neither Maude nor his
uncle had heard this ugly story of Patron
He would see Maude and give her
his version of the affair before Glanfield had
the opportunity of poisoning her mind
against horn. Chance favoured him, for at
this moment Jackson issued from the hut,
mopping his brows and exhibiting every
sign of a man who has done a hard day's
work. He had unpacked his master's tram
and now come out to seek some
place in which to repose after his labours.
Some three or four of the brigands now
emerged from the shade of the wood,
stretched themselves, and immediately betook
themselves to smoking with the air of
men who had been culpably neglecting their
opportunities. It was to one of these that
Jackson first addressed himself ; and, in a
somewhat pompous fashion, mixed with
some little trepidation, inquired where he-was
to be put up, adding, "I am Sir Jasper's
major-domo, young man, and it is the custom

in England to lodge the upper servants
comfortable."

The man stared vaguely at this address,
not one word of which he understood ; and
then called to one of his fellows, who heard
Jackson repeat his appeal with the utmost
gravity, and then responded with " No
Angles."

Captain," exclaimed Jackson, almost
pathetically, "you can speak their lingo.
I'm dead beat for a bit of a sleep ; do, in
pity's sake, ask 'em where my bed is."

Hamilton put the question, as desired,
but the derisive laugh with which it was
received boded ill for Jackson's comfort.
Then one of the brigands made answer, and,
from the sarcastic inflexion of his voice, even
Jackson gathered but cold consolation, while
Hamilton could not conceal a smile as he
listened to the scoundrel's speech.

What does he say, sir ? " asked Jackson,
when the brigand had delivered himself.

My poor Jackson, I am sorry for you,"

replied Hamilton ; " but he says on the
mountains 'tis only the chief and women
who have huts or tents ; the rest of us sleep
with the stars for our counterpane and the
breeze through the pines for our lullaby and
ask no better. The fat footman will take
no hurt by making the sod his couch for a
night or two."

Galling as he knew the last remark would
be to Jackson, and though he wanted a
small service from that worthy, yet hamilton
could not resist translating it. He
had not forgotten Jackson's officiousness,
such he termed it, about the cards at Wrotts-
ley. It is curious the different epithets we
apply to the same transaction. Most acts
of our* lives are like stones with many
facets, and may be regarded in many different
lights by many different people.
Hamilton thought Jackson officious, but
I think the generality of men would laud
him for strictly fulfilling a duty he owed to
his master.

Do you mean to say, sir, they expect me
to sleep out in the open, as if I was a
blessed hare ? " gasped Jackson.

Yes ; I fancy that's what will be your
fate to-night."

That means rheumatism, Captain Hammer
ton — that's what it means to a man of
my time of life. I'd sooner they murdered
me right off as killed me by inches with
rheumatic fever. If I could get to speak to
that Count, as he called himself, surely he'd
bear in mind how I kept a-filling his glass
up at Wrottsley."

I can't say," replied Hamilton; "but,
from the way he is treating us all round,
favours at "Wrottsley don't seem to count for
much. It's hard, deuced hard, for an old
and valued servant like you to have to sleep
in the open, but I'm afraid it will be the
case, Jackson. I expect to have to do the
same myself, though it naturally comes
harder on a man of your years than it docs
upon me."

That's what I say, sir. Upper servants
who are up in years ought to be made comfortable.
These foreigners have no idea of
propriety."

Just so, Jackson. It's very sad, but
that's about the size of it. But now," continued
Hamilton, as he rose from his seat
and laid his hand on the old man's arm, " I
want you to do something for me. Tell
Miss Maude I want to speak to her; but
mind, don't tell her before Sir Jasper. I
don't wish to alarm my uncle unnecessarily,
and he might think it is something much
more serious than it is that I have to say to
her."

I'll do it for you in another minute,"
said Jackson. " But it seems I have no
more cause to bother about my bedroom
than an old cow, but may just flop down
anywhere when I feel tired. All right, sir !
I'll tell Miss Maude," and Jackson once
more disappeared into the hut.

A few minutes more, and Maude Evers-

leigh appeared on the plateau and walked
quickly across the grass towards the fallen
tree near which Hamilton stood.

What is it, Fred ? " she inquired
anxiously. " I am afraid you have more
bad news to break to meant yet surely it
is impossible to be placed in a more terrible
position than we are. What do you think ?
Will this dreadful bandit, who so imposed
upon you and who was actually an honoured
guest at Wrottsley, prove such an utter
wretch as to take our lives if this enormous
sum of money is not forthcoming ? Father
declares that the Count is very much in
earnest about the demand, but surely it can
only mean that he will wring all the money
he can from us. He can never surely be
such a villain as to slay in cold blood those
from whom he received nothing but kindness,
those with whom a few months back
he dined, shot, and jested."

Prom my recent knowledge of the man
I would say, yes : but sit down for 1 have

a good deal to say to you' and Harnmerton
motioned to the fallen tree which plays so
prominent a part in this history, being
indeed a species of half rostrum, half confessional,
lending itself alternately to the
haranguing of a small audience or to the
interchange of private conversation.

I met Count Patroceni, as you know,
on the Continent. I was told he was a man
of good family, but who had been in trouble
on account of his political opinions. "When
we remember the iron rule of the Austrian
and the Bourbons one cannot feel that men
were guilty of crime who protested both byword
and sword against such monstrous
tyranny. I, at all events, reckoned that
nothing in the record of a man's life, and
we became friends. Unless I had had implicit
confidence in his truth and honour
you can scarce suppose I should have
brought him to Wrottsley. To find him
what he is has been as stupendous a surprise
to me as to you; but even then I should

have thought, after the hospitality he had
received, we might have counted on courtesy."


I think we have received that to the
best of his ability, except on the matter of
this monstrous ransom," said Maude, trifling
with the tassel of her parasol.

"Ah, yes, he has been civil enough to
you ladies and Sir Jasper, the man couldn't
be otherwise, but with Glanfield and myself
it has been different. Indeed I seem to have
provoked the utmost malignancy of his
nature. He has accused me of the blackest
crimes, declares that I combined with him
that night at Wrottsley to ruin Cyril Whelm
You saw yourself, Maude, what took
place. Why ! I took Wheldrake's part until
I could do so no longer, and had reluctantly
to admit the justice of Patroceni's accusation,
but I did not know what manner of
man the Count was then. I deemed him
a gentleman, and had no idea he was the

adventurer and robber we have since discovered
Mm to be. Such a charge, brought
by one like Patroceni against a man of
proved honour like Wheldrake, is absurd ; it
falls to the ground at once."

Then you hold Cyril guiltless now ? "
asked Maude, eagerly.

"Yes. While I thought the Count a
gentleman of repute I was reluctantly compelled
to believe what he proved. Now I
know him for a cards harper, I'd no more
believe my eyes than I would if assisting atone
of Maskelyne and Cooke's entertainments.
Remember, Maude, it. was the evidence
of his own eyes convinced your father ;
but, if Houdin had shuffled the cards, he'd
have laughed at such evidence. I, as introducing
the hawk into the dove-cote, am the
cause of ail our past and present trouble. I
have been cruelly deceived, and am likely to
pay dearly for my credulity ; but I could
not rest, dear Maude, till [ had made this

confession to you, and acknowledged that I
now believe Wheldrake to have been the
victim of a blacken's ruse."

Oh, bless you for that, Fred ! " cried
Maude, passionately. "I shall even welcome
the loss of all this money if it only clears
Cyril's good name. But what do you mean
about your being likely to pay dearly for
your belief in the Count ? "

I mean this : that I am undoubtedly in
greater clanger than the rest of you, simply
from Patroceni's malevolence. I used strong
and foolish language when we were first
made prisoners, which I am like to be made
to suffer for. If this money or something
approaching it is raised nobody is in the
slightest danger except myself. This is not
only my opinion but that of others. Cranfield,
little more than an hour ago, observed,
We may get safe away, but I wouldn't take
fifty to one about your chance.' It was a
brutal and ungenerous remark, but I deserved

it. My cursed facility of making
acquaintances has involved you all in this
miserable scrape."

But, my dear Fred," said Maude,
proudly, " you don't suppose your kith and
kin are such curs as to save their skin and
leave you behind ? No' continued the girl
with all the impulsiveness of her honest
resolute nature, " we'll share the same fate
one and all, let it be what it may."

Hamilton's lips twitched slightly. His
cousin's pluck was a rebuke to his own, if
not cowardice, meanness. There are times
when life itself may be bought too dearly ;
and, though men have cringed to those they
have injured in order to obtain this boon at
their hands, they do not commend themselves
to their fellows. We should have
thought more of his Grace of Monmouth if
he had not grovelled to his despicable uncle
before he creed his doom. He died like a
man, it is true ; but he begged for his lifelike

Well, I'll not finish the sentence.

We can only say " the pity of it ! oh, the
pity of it ! "

No. Maude, I know you will all stand
by me. Sir Jasper is the last man to leave
his nephew in the lurch, but my sole chance
of safety lies, as far as I can see, in your
hands."

In mine ! Why, Fred, how on earth
can I help you? I most sincerely wish I
could."

"You can. Listen to me. Your influence
over Cyril Wheldrake exists still. Men
who love as he loved do not forget in a few
months."

J have influence over Cyril ? " she murmured
in dreamy tones, and looking into
his face with a completely bewildered expression
; " doubtful, very. I have never
heard of him all these months, which does
not look as if he retained much interest
in me."

I happen to know the contrary, and,

VOL. II. G

moreover, lie has considerable weight with
Patroceni."

Cyril! " exclaimed the girl, "why where
is he ? "

In this camp, and within a hundred
yards of us. No, don't do that ! " he exclaimed
sharply, as Maude gave signs of
becoming hysterical; "we have no time
for that sort of nonsense just now. He is
apparently a prisoner like ourselves, but
there are prisoners and prisoners, and he
is upon a very different footing from the
rest of us."

Cyril Wheldrake here," muttered Maude,
gulping down her emotion by a resolute
effort. " Shall I see him— do you think ? "
and the question was put almost submissively.


Quick as thought, Hamilton seized upon
the point that had turned up in his favour.
He knew that he had merely to let Whelm
know that Maude desired to see him
and double sentries would hardly prevent

that interview, while he had ascertained
that, unless different arrangements were
made at nightfall, it was only on the outskirts
of the camp that sentries were placed.

I think," he said at length, " I could
manage that for you by the adroit use of a
sovereign or two.

Oh, if you could, Red, you can't imagine
how I should feel indebted to you,"
and Maude clasped his arm with her hands
in pretty supplication of her request.

All right ! I'll arrange it for you. Mind
you come when you're called, and remember
you are pledged to entreat his influence in
my behalf."

g2

CHAPTER VI.

MRS. Fullerton ON MARRIAGE.

Hamilton thought with no little satisfaction
over the way in which he had played
his cards, as Maude strolled hack to the hut.
"Ah," he muttered, "that marriage being
out of the question it was as well to retire
gracefully from the pursuit. Maude without
her thirty thousand pounds is, I regret to
say, ' a thing of beauty and a joy for ever,'
beyond my indulging in. No. Matrimony
with me is a chapter in social economy. My
wife must not only be able to pay her way
but mine too. Considering how over-stocked

with marriageable young women the United
Kingdom is, I think a good-looking fellow
of decent family is entitled to ask that much.
Stow, Maude is delighted to see me back out
to begin with. My sweet cousin never quite
appreciated me, though I should have married
her but for this confounded contretemps.
Secondly, she is supremely grateful to me
for expressing my firm belief in Wheldrake' s
innocence, and on that point there's no
better judge; and, lastly, Wheldrake himself,
when he sees all this, will be sure, for his
own sake, to do the best for me. There's
the one thing — how did Wheldrake come
here ? Impossible to guess, Patroceni is
humorous in his epithets. He calls us
guests. Wheldrake, I should imagine, is
less a prisoner than any of us, although he
was made to draw lots with us. A cynical,
whimsical devil — this Patroceni. I wonder
how much of my past he's thought fit to
entrust Wheldrake with. However, it's useless
to speculate on that point — my only

chance is to act as if he has told him
nothing."

At this juncture Mrs. Pullerton emerged
from the hut, and wended her way across
the grass leisurely to where Hamilton
was seated. " Yes," he murmured sarcastically,
"nothing stops them. Here comes
my beloved aunt, rather uncomfortable
about her personal safety, and in serious
trepidation about her diamonds and bank
account. Sensible people keep it overdrawn,
which does away with all anxiety, and yet
in the midst of all her troubles here she is
armed cap-aspired on the chance of churning
up a flirtation with that phlegmatic Glans
I fancy most women would have
made light of the lions if they could have
had a few hours' tete-astute with Daniel.
It's in the blood of most of them, and wonderful
are the small deer they will stoop to
rather than not subjugate somebody. Here's
Aunt Clara, given Glanfield out of the way,
quite capable of reducing one of these

scoundrels to a lap-dog condition, and I'd
back her to do it if she took it into her head
to try."

Well, Fred," said Mrs. Fullerton, anxiously,
" what terms have you succeeded in
making with your friend ? " and the widow
accentuated the last word spitefully. " Is it
all settled ? "

Yes, but the Count would abate not a
tittle of the sum he at first named."

Ct It's monstrous, and if the Neapolitan
police were good for anything they would
interfere at once."

a It's devoutly to be hoped they won't,"
replied Hamilton, sharply. "Any interference
on their part would cost us our lives
in all probability ; but I don't think we need
-be apprehensive on that point."

I suppose Jasper will have to go to
Naples to arrange money matters ? "

No, I think not ; but here comes Cranfield
; he will tell you all about it better than
I can'' and Hamilton took the opportunity

of Glanfield's approach to make his
escape.

Sit clown, Mr. Glanfield, and tell me
the result of your negociations. Fred tells
me you have failed to obtain any reduction
of the monstrous demand. "

"None," rejoined Glanfield, gaily. "The
Count is a first-class marauder, and understands
the skinning of his victims thoroughly.
He'd have been a splendid fellow
in the old days, when c noble Lord Howard
he lived on the border,' a very prince of
spoilers."

Upon my word I don't see what you've
got to look so pleased about," rejoined Mrs.
Pullerton, tartly. " Even if our lives are
spared we shall pay very dearly for them."

My dear Mrs. Eullerton, don't pray be
under any anxiety about our safety. A temporary
detention is all you have to fear,
perhaps prolonged a week more than is
agreeable, but that's the worst that can
happen to us."

Well, who is to go ? You are sure
there is no danger? I know I can rely
upon what you say. "Why don't they send
Jasper ? "

For the best of all possible reasons. The
Count is much too 'cute to part with c the
pick of the basket.' Sir Jasper, he knows,
is far away the wealthiest of his captives.
Patroceni's not the man, when he's made a
haul, to throw the big fish back into the
stream."

Then I presume you go, and that is why
you are so absurdly cheerful," said Mrs.
Pullerton with some little asperity.

Glanfield looked at her for a moment.
A little irritable from change of stable,"
he muttered. " No," he continued aloud,
I don't go, but Cyril Wheldrake does, and
he can "

Mr. Wheldrake!" almost screamed Mrs.
Fuller ton. " You don't mean to tell me he's
here ? How did he come ? When did he
come ? Quick ! tell me everything."

It's a long story'' replied Glanfield,
but he's a prisoner like ourselves. He was
actually kidnapped at Naples in the Villa
del Realee, not a quarter of a mile from our
hotel. He has been here some days, and
says Patroceni had the most accurate information
with regard to our movements all
along. He has lots of spies in Naples, and
any attempt at false play in this business
would very likely result in terrible consequences
to the men left behind; but we may
thoroughly trust Cyril."

And how does he look ? " asked Mrs.
Eullerton.

Rather worn. He was very anxious to
hear all about Maude. He had seen in some
stray society paper that she was going to be
married to Hamilton, and he wanted
much to know whether that was true. I
don't know what to think, she puzzles me.
Sometimes I think he has a chance, and then
she lashes out and shows temper, just as she
did the other day at Naples, and it looks

odds against her settling down to double
harness. What do you think ? "

I think, in the first place, that you get
more difficult to understand day by day ;
but, as a woman whose misfortune it has
been to be initiated in the language of
grooms and horse-copers, I won't affect not
to understand you. As I told you once
before, I'm puzzled ; but, if Mr. Wheldrake
reappears upon the scene, I wouldn't give
much for Fred's chance. It's Mr. Whelm
absence that makes Fred's opportunity."


He'll be awful glad to hear that, poor
old chap, for he hasn't got over it a bit.
He's just as far gone as ever he was. He's
exuding smoothness from every pore."

I'm sorry to hear it," replied Mrs. Fullerton,
gravely. " No good can come of it
while that horrid charge hangs over his
head. If they meet they'll only make each
other unhappy. Sir Jasper will never give
his consent."

"My dear Mrs. Pullerton, Cyril will
never need it while that charge remains disproved.
He said he would ask no girl to
share so stained a name as his that night at
Wrottsley, and he would, nay does, say the
same now; but thank Heaven there's a rift
through the clouds at last, and I believe we
shall be in possession of the true story of
that night's work before long."

What, you think Mr. Wheldrake will be
able to prove his innocence ? "

I do, and to show who was guilty besides.
But no more of that at present. How are
you put up — pretty comfortably ? "

Oh, very fairly. I've slept in much
rougher places when touring in Italy years
ago. If you get off the beaten track in this
country, as you know, the accommodation
for travellers is pretty rough. Maude and
I have not much to complain of. Besides,
we were sent up an excellent plain meal,
with wine that even Sir Jasper admitted to
be excellent of its kind."

Mrs. Fullerton, it must be remembered,
was talking of twenty years ago, or more
even. While she is speaking the great
struggle between Austria and Prussia for the
supremacy of Germany has yet to be fought ;
and her reminiscences of travelling in Italy
were before the French Emperor's proud
boast that Italy should be free from the Alps
to the Adriatic had been half realised, on
Solferino's blundered field, where masses of
the finest cavalry in the world, on ground
specially adapted for horsemen, looked coolly
on while their brethren of the line were
manoeuvred to their destruction.

Oh, well, there's nothing to be very
unhappy about, after all. I am sure, if all
ends as I think it will, in clearing Whelm
honour, we shall have our quid pro
quo out of it. We shall be bled ; but, to
secure his daughter's happiness and to right
Wheldrake's good name, Sir Jasper would
not grudge a few thousand pounds. Moreover,
remember — Wheldrakc, in some shape,

will lighten the burden ; for he has money,
and is most liberal in his suggestions as to
what part he is to take upon himself."

"Mr. Glanfield," exclaimed the widow,
with a burst of enthusiasm, " I forgive you
all your slang. I think you're one of the
best men and staunchest friends I ever met
with." And in the fulness of her heart
Mrs. Fullerton extended her hand to Cranfield.


It was a plump, warm, pretty hand, and
therefore it was excusable in Mr. Glanfield
to be rather reluctant about releasing it;
but even Mrs. Pullerton, who was by no
means unaccustomed to having it squeezed,
flushed slightly at the unconscionable time
that gentleman held it. " Oh dear ! " she
muttered to herself, "if he wants it for a
permanency, why can't he say so ? and, my
gracious ! my poor patte might as well be ina
lemon-squeezer."

Thank you, Mr. Glanfield," she said at
length, when he relapsed his grasp; "I

don't think there's a whole bone left in it.
That hearty English grip conies a trifle hard
on feminine fingers."

The old story,' ' he replied; roughly.
The minute we're fools enough to exhibit
the least bit of feeling you laugh at us. The
old axiom is right — c Never lose your head
about a woman, and she is safe to lose her
head about you.' "

Mrs. Fullerton opened her eyes to their
widest. She had never heard such cynical
worldly maxims drop from Glanfield's lips
before. The widow had yet to learn that
few men of the world but are furnished with
such sceptical lore relating to the sex, which
they preach theoretically but usually forget
in practice. It is the veriest club sceptic —
that authority of the smoking-room on the
eternal war between the sexes — that usually
winds up by falling into the toils of the
third-rate actress or milliner's apprentice.
Mrs. Eullerton felt more respect for Cranfield
after his last remark than she had ever

felt before. A woman always admires a man
who asserts himself, just as she always
reverences the man who is emphatically her
master : more clearly emphasised this in low
life, where the passions are broader because
less restrained by the training of civilisation.
The one thing immutable on this earth is
human nature, which is ever the same let
the varnish be what it may. Cupidity,
jealousy, vanity, meanness, and all the rest
of the passions are as much in play on the
banks of the Congo as on the banks of the
Thames.

Pardon me, Mr. Glanfield, but there is
surely no question of either of us losing our
heads. You might," added Mrs. Pullerton,
demurely, " go wild about a horse, but not
about one of our inferior sex."

But Glanfield had already recovered himself.
It was very rarely that the imperturbable
Jim was drawn into so much
warmth of expression ; and that he should
have so far committed himself was due to

the elation of his spirits at meeting Whelm
and hearing Patroceni's account
of the Wrottsley affair, shadowy though it
was. Wheldrake had told him all about the
night's play with Sarini, and Glanfield quite
agreed that the introduction of the false
cards amongst Sarini's notes had been
planned solely with a view of showing
Wheldrake how he had been made to appear
guilty of cheating at Wrottsley. One
thing Glanfield completely overlooked in his
anxiety to arrive at Wheldrake' s innocence :
it was that the proof of it all depended sofar
on the word of Patroceni, and that he
was, to say the least of it, of very dubious
character and antecedents.

Quite right, Mrs. Eullerton, we do go
just as wild about horses as we do about
your charming selves ; and, upon my honour,
I don't know which we come to most grief
over. You see a fellow can lose a lot of
money over a horse when he takes a fancy
to one, but he can lose quite as much when

VOL. II. K

he takes a fancy to a woman, and perhaps
wreck his life's happiness to hoot. Another
advantage : you can always get rid of
the one you see, hut you can't of the other.
The four-footed love comes cheapest in the
end."

"Well," exclaimed Mrs. Merton, "how
you really dare to preach such a homily tome
I can't conceive ! What little good ever
adorns your worthless lives emanates from
us. As boys you owe your best teaching to
your mother ; as men, in nine cases out often,
you derive your best impulses from
your sweethearts and wives."

"Wonder what Jack Boscobel said about
that ? His wife landed him in the Bankruptcy
Court at the end of the second
season."

Mrs. Boscobel was a vain, frivolous
woman, whom no sensible man ought to
have married," retorted Mrs. Pullerton,
sharply. " She is the exception that proves
the rule."

"Strikes me, 55 replied Glanfield, "you
carry on this argument pretty much as
ladies play a round game — you keep on
making rules to suit your own hand ; however,
the deduction is obvious. Theoretically,
we are all to get married and live
happy ever afterwards ; practically, we
don't always manage that latter part."

It's entirely your own faults when you
don't," said Mrs. Fullerton, laughing. "If
you give us all we want and let us have our
own way there never would be domestic
squabbles. But when does Mr. Wheldrake
start ? "

A little before daybreak," rejoined
Glanfield.

And when will he return ? "

That is not quite so easy to say. We
shall, no doubt, speedily hear from him, but
the raising of this amount of money in
specie will, I am afraid, cause some little
delay. "While this superb weather lasts
there is no great hardship in this sort of
H 2

picnicing, and we shall be probably ransomed
before there is any change in it."

"One question more," said Mrs. Puller-ton,
rising. " Does Maude know Mr. Whelm
is here ? "

I can't say," replied Glanfield.

CHAPTER VII.

CHISEL ON THE TRAIL,

We must now look back upon the troubles
of a gentleman who has so far played a very
inferior part of this narrative. Mr. Chisel,
after some months' weary waiting, had one
morning received the welcome order to join
his master in Italy, for that country had
been the scene of Wheldrake's wanderings.
Home, Florence, Venice, Pisa, Milan, &c,
he had sojourned in every one of them ;
sauntering, so to speak, backwards and forwards
through the country as fancy led him
without any set line of travel. Wherever

he might be, however, Wheldrake scrupulously
avoided his countrymen and the
hotels and quarters of the towns most
affected by them ; and so successful had he
been in maintaining his exclusiveness that
he had encountered none of his acquaintances
to speak to, supposing their virtue did
not suggest to them that, after the manner
of the Levite, they should pass by on the
other side. So sensitive was Wheldrake on
this point, that, on the few occasions he had
either seen or learnt there were old friends
of his in a place, he had carefully avoided
them and at once cut short his stay.

After various wanderings he at last found
himself in Naples, and at once started off
to see the marvels of Pompeii. This
curious reproduction of the old Roman life
had a fascination for him, and he moved at
once from Naples to the little inn at Pompeii,
and spent days in exploring the unburied
cities. Satiated at last by this study
of the luxurious life of the Roman empire,

he one clay set forth on foot to Naples,
leaving Chisel to follow hy carriage with
the luggage, with what disastrous result we
have seen. When Chisel arrived with the
baggage and found that his master had
never reached the hotel he had specified,
Chisel was by no means put out. He was
used to this. In his desire to avoid recognition,
his master often reconnoitred the
hotels before bringing his baggage, in order
to be sure there was no gushing, garrulous
acquaintance of his therein. To be patronisingly
pitied for misfortune is perhaps the
most galling ordeal humanity is ever calledon
to encounter. So Chisel patiently
awaited either his master's appearance or
orders from him of some sort, but the night
rolled by and the next day followed suit,
and still Mr. Chisel heard nothing of his
master, and then it came upon him that he
must be up and doing. He was quite conscious
that if anything had happened to his
master he'd a difficult task before him. He

was a sharp fellow, but he had no knowledge
of either Italian or of foreign customs,
nor had he any one to whom he could
apply for advice. His first step was obvious:
to go round the hotels and inquire whether
Wheldrake was amongst the guests was
soon done, with unsatisfactory result; but
Mr. Chisel did obtain one bit of intelligence,
namely, that Sir Jasper and his party
were in Naples. Chisel turned it over in
his mind a good many times as to whether
he should take counsel with them ; but he
knew upon what peculiar grounds his
master had left Wrottsley, and surmised
that, should Wheldrake turn up all right,
these were the people of all others he would
least wish to meet. And this feeling restrained
him, though, for the matter of that,
none of Sir Jasper's party had much experience
of the customs of the country. Then
Mr. Chisel got hold of an interpreter, who
accompanied him to the police, where he
told his story, was cross-examined as closely

as if he himself might be supposed to have
made away with his master, his answers
being carefully taken down in a folio
volume, at great length. Then the police
gave him to understand that they would
see about it ; and left a pleasant impression
that if he thought to throw dust in their
eyes, and evade the consequence of his
crime in that wise, he was very much mistaken.
Chisel had now to discover that the
Neapolitan police had a leisurely way of
seeing about things that was simply maddening,
and that his calling to ask if they
had any information to give him only furnished
occasion for a fresh examination of
himself. In short, the police had got it
into their sapient heads that Chisel had
murdered his master, and was adopting the
stale device of raising a hue and cry to
divert suspicion from himself. Instead of
making strenuous search after the missing
man, They directed their whole energies
to dogging the steps of his servant. They

had never been much use at the best of
times, save to carry out the behests of that
abominable tyrant, King Bomba, the last
reigning monarch in Europe who dared to
venture upon atrocities that would have
driven the very Ashantees into insurrection.
In these days they took things
pretty easily, unless their palms were well
oiled. While King Bomba reigned it had
been different, for that kinglet was possessed
of a royally irascible temper, that badly
brooked disappointment. If his agents
failed to apprehend the unfortunate who
had incurred the royal wrath, he had a
way of meting out the death or imprisonment
designed for the object of his detestation
on the agent who had failed to apprehend
him. The Neapolitan police, under
these circumstances, became an extremely
acute body whenever royalty named the
quarry. But it was not likely they were
going to trouble their heads much about
an obscure Englishman, in whose fate it

was quite evident no one took an interest
save his servant ; and about that, as aforesaid,
the police had formed their own
opinions— it was not likely that this fatheaded
islander was going to impose upon
the superior intelligence of a Latin race !
It was always the same ; such men always
over-acted their part. In the extreme fuss
he was making about his master's disappearance,
he was sure, sooner or later,
to expose how he himself had caused that
disappearance. So Chisel was the daily
victim of this delusion. He called to inquire
for news, and was quietly put through
a most insidious cross-examination by one
of the smartest chiefs of the gendarmerie.

Chisel at last got wearied and disgusted
with the eternal response that they had
nothing as yet to communicate, but they
were on the track. He determined to consult
Mr. Glanfield ; he was a staunch friend
of his master's, and he could count upon
help from him. These cursed gendarmes

would pay more attention to him than they
did to a man of his own station.

They would never dare to question Mr.
Glanfield in the way they did him. And
now occurred another surprise for Mr.
Chisel. He had, as we know, been a good
while before he could make up his mind to
appeal to Sir Jasper's party for assistance in
this matter; and when he arrived at their
hotel and asked to see Mr. Glanfield he was
informed the whole party had departed for
Amalfi that morning, and would not be
back for two or it might be for three days.
Mr. Chisel waited two days, and then once
more called at the hotel, only to be informed
that the travellers had not as yet returned.
He called again the next day, but the reply
was the same. It was curious. He applied
to see the landlord. What did the landlord
think ? Did he fancy anything was wrong
with the travellers ? But the landlord
merely shrugged his shoulders and laughed.
The English milord had kept on his rooms,

quite conclusive this to the hotel-keeper
that no harm could have come to him.

Ah ! your countrymen are not like other
people," said he. " They are as if they were
bitten by the tarantula — they have no idea
of the dolce far niente — they are always on
the move. They don't understand the
siesta. Ah, who can say where an Englishman's
wanderings will end ? They may not
come back for a week, but they have left all
their heavy baggage, and they have kept on
my rooms. Milord Verse, he is very rich
and a great sign or in his own country ? "

Yes," retorted Chisel, " but that's no
safeguard against a man coming to grief.
It's a queer road that to Amain, so I hear;
and, though they say such things don't take
place now, yet I'm told that there are a good
many of your people who were ' out ' in the
troublous times who have taken to the
mountains."

The saints forbid, signor ! " replied the
landlord, crossing himself. " It is best not

TIE AND TRICK.

to talk of such people — they have both
long ears and long arms ; but, even supposing
there should be some of them about,
they would never meddle with Englishmen,
much less so large a party as Milord Verse's.
Ah," he continued, looking round cautiously
and lowering his voice, " they are a great
pest to the country, and interfere dreadfully
with our business."

I dare say'* replied Chisel, quietly ;
I'll call in tomorrow. Interfere with his
business ! " he muttered to himself, " no
doubt they do. That sleek old villain yearns
for a monopoly, and feels quite equal to
doing all the robbery in these parts."

Another day or two elapsed, and still
Chisel could hear nothing of either his
master or Sir Jasper's party. A shrewd,
sharp, energetic man, sincerely attached to
his master, he chafed terribly under this enforced
inaction. Suddenly an idea struck
him : he was no good here, he could hit
upon no clue which afforded a possibility of

tracing his master. As for the police, if they
acted at all they would act in their own way
and at their own time. He would follow Sir
Jasper to Amalfi. The carriages had been
taken from the hotel, and would be therefore
easily traced along the road. By that
means he would either find Sir Jasper and
his party or discover what had become of
them. An excellent plan, but with one very
serious drawback, which it was impossible
that Chisel could conjecture. It was simply
this : Chisel is bent on tracking Sir Jasper,
whilst, unknown to him, the police are
dogging his own steps. Should Chisel be
successful in his search the trail must inevitably
lead him into the midst of Patron
band with the gendarmes on his track,
and this is likely to render the position of
the captives extremely hazardous.

However, all this was of course outside the
ken of Chisel. That faithful servitor made
speedy arrangements for hiring a hack, and
with a light valise strapped at the back of

his saddle started forth on the road to
Amalfi. Inquiries at Pompeii of course
speedily elicited the fact that Sir Jasper's
party had passed through three days before
on the way to Amalfi.

Yes," said the hostess, " we expected
them back the day before yesterday ; but of
course ladies and gentlemen on their pleasure
do not tie themselves down to time.
They probably found the sea-breezes and
hill-scenery of Amalfi so much to their taste
that they stayed on there, or perhaps they
made excursions from there in some other
direction. There was no saying what an
Englishman would not do in that way.
Why, there was the signor, your master,
spent whole days here wandering about
these old ruined cities. How could people
leave Naples with all its life and music to
look at these dreary cities of the dead. Ah !
if she had only a holiday she wouldn't waste
it wandering about those old lava beds I" So
Chisel, having refreshed himself, and finding

there was no more information to be
gathered from his hostess, once more swung
himself into the saddle and resumed his
journey. It was often done, but it was a
very long stage to pull through to Amain in
one day. Chisel, who was versatile in his
accomplishments, was a fair horseman, and
consequently proceeded leisurely on his way,
so as to save his horse as much as possible.

He had ascertained that Sir Jasper and
his party had passed, but nothing had been
seen of them since, although they had
spoken of their intention of stopping for
some hours, if not for the night, at the
little inn on their return. Nothing much
was to be made of this information, and
Chisel pushed on in the direction of Amain.
He had not gone far before he perceived two
carriages coming towards him. Now carriages
are scarce on that road, and it struck
Chisel as rather singular that there should
be two evidently travelling in company, and
as they drew near he noticed that they were

VOL. II. I

both empty. Then it struck him that these
were probably the carriages that had conveyed
Sir Jasper and his party, and the
drivers would be able at all events to tell
him where they had left their employers.
But this was precisely what they could not
or would not do : they either did not or
pretended not to understand the questions
put to them ; and Chisel was about to
abandon his inquiries in despair when
another horseman came up, and put a very
different complexion on the affair.

Time is apparently of no consequence in
Naples and its vicinity. The passers-by
have always leisure to participate in the
business of the stranger. The bare idea of
anybody having any business and endeavouring
to attend to it perhaps stimulates
their indolent nature, but certain it is that
the new-comer joined in the questioning of
the drivers with the readiest good-nature.
He spoke a little English, and his appearance
evidently disconcerted the drivers. He

spoke as a man having authority, and,
though Chisel did not understand what he
said, he could see that he was listened to
with great deference.

Ah," he said, "you are the drivers who
took the English lord off to Amain ? Not a
bit of use your denying it, because I know
you both, and saw you start. This gentleman
is desirous of knowing where you left
those ladies and gentlemen. Well, that is a
question very easy to answer; you have
only to say and then he would be satisfied."

But this apparently was not so easy.
The drivers stammered, and when pressed
gave most evasive and equivocal answers;
but this only whetted the curiosity of the
police-agent, for such he was. Had the
drivers lied glibly, the police-agent would
have troubled his head no further about the
matter. His object was never to let Chisel
out of his sight. Holding the theory that
the luckless Chisel had done his master to
death, he persistently tracked him, in order


to obtain evidence of his crime, but the
minute these drivers made a mystery of
where they had left their employers he was
determined to know. A mystery to him.
was what a double acrostic is to some
people; he delighted in mysteries. His
life was spent in elucidating them; his
manner suddenly changed. Instead of the
genial bonlwmmie with which he first commenced
his inquiries, he assumed a more
minatory tone, and said sharply, " No nonsense
! You know perfectly well who I
am; answer me directly. What have you
done with the English people you drove
from Naples?"

The faces of the unfortunate drivers were
a study. Consternation was depicted on
their countenances. On the one side stood
the vengeance of the brigands, on the other
the retribution which followed any trifling
with the police. M. Leroux was a Frenchman,
and regarded as one of the most astute
and determined police-agents whom the

Government had in their employ ; but after
a little hesitation the drivers remembered
that they were coming away from brigands,
whilst they were going straight into the
jaws of the police ; and, therefore, no little
to Leroux's astonishment, made a full confession
of what had befallen Sir Jasper and
his party.

I can now tell you what you want to
know, signor," said the police-agent. " The
English milord and his party have fallen
into the hands of brigands. It is perfectly
useless for you to endeavour to trace them,
and, between you and me, this road is by no
means safe to travel further. I know the
habits of these gentry, and it is in Naples
we shall next hear tidings of them."

Chisel pondered for a few seconds over
the stranger's remarks, and then followed
his advice and turned his horse about.

CHAPTER VIII.

REAPPEARANCE OF GIOVANNI.

A rueful sight was Jackson pacing the
platform in a despair half comic, half
pathetic. The sun had just sunk below the
trees, and that pompous servitor was feebly
wondering where he was to lay his head.

Thomas Jackson," he murmured to
himself, " you're a man as has always done
your duty by your employers. No one can
ever say as the Wrottsleys' wine wasn't
properly buttered. No one can say as the
Wrottsley plate wasn't properly cleaned ;
and as for the lamps, and boots, and shoes,
no one can say as Thomas Jackson didn't

see that the juniors did their duty by them;
but such a position for an upper servant to
be placed in I never did see. Bed ! the
savages don't seem to know what such a
thing is. Hot water ! well, they don't trouble
that much, either hot or cold, either inside
or out. And drink, no butler that ever
lived could fill glasses fast enough for such
a set of sponges as these. It seems to me
there is a sort of game of cross-purposes
going on ; what with all this confidential talk
at a time the fat'll be in the fire, and the
last of the Jacksons become the tenant of a
grave amongst wild beasts in a foreign land.
Pretty thing this to happen to a man who's
made his responses regular in Wrottsley
church for the last thirty years. No tombstone
to mark the spot for inquiring friends
and record my virtues. I should like to
have had it writ up that his claret was
always warm, and his champagne cold ; but
I suppose that's not quite the thing for an
elegy. Mercy on me 3 who's this ? "

Jackson's steps by this time bad carried
him to the edge of the wood, and from the
wood slowly emerged a man with livid face
and eyes that still burnt with the but half-subdued
light of fever. His head was
swathed in bandages, and he bore the
appearance of one who had gazed far through
the portals of the tomb. He looked about
him in a sort of timid, unnerved way 5 as if
in search of some one, and had not proceeded
far before he was hailed by one of
the brigands who was idly smoking on the
grass.

Ah, Giovanni, what, you are about
again ? It's not many who recover from
his Excellency's handwriting. Your headpiece
must be stronger built than those of
most of us to have stood such a blow as I
saw dealt you. Santo Diavolo ! it would
have killed au ox ! "

el I have been as near death as a man can
go and live. My brain racks yet," replied
Giovanni, in a low quivering voice. " My

knees shake, and I don't think I shall ever bea
man again' and as he spoke the broken-down
bandit sank on the turf beside his
comrade. " And Matteo," he exclaimed,
while a savage gleam shot from his dark
eyes, " I suppose he has been handsomely
rewarded ? Is he still here ? "

Pietro, for he happened to be the man
Giovanni had addressed, eyed him narrowly
for some seconds before he answered.

You had best be careful what you do in
that matter — I can see revenge in your face ;
but mind, I have no fancy any more than
the rest of us to find our lives in jeopardy in
order that you may pay off a grudge against
Matteo."

No, no," interposed the other nervously.
I'll be true to my oath, never fear; but
that, Pietro, doesn't forbid that I should
settle my quarrel with Matteo in my own
way. That's not against mountain law."

I'm not sure," replied the other. " You
can never keep the wine-cup from your lips,

and when you get drunk on service your
tongue runs riot and you endanger the whole
of us. Matteo was right to let the chief
know."

It was a dog's trick' retorted Giovanni,
sullenly, iC There was no harm done, and
he might have spared an old comrade. That
I'm not beneath the turf is no thanks to
him, and do you think I'll leave a debt like
this unpaid ? "

u If you're guided by me you will. If
you endanger the rest of us, remember there
will be a score and more daggers at your
throat. Moreover, I should doubt whether
his Excellency doesn't value Matteo's brains
higher than your brute strength."

Ha ! I am not to strike back," replied
Giovanni, in tones which, though low, were
pregnant with concentrated hate. " You
say right, Pietro, it is strength against
brains. Matteo has reft me of my strength ;
let him take heed that I, in my turn, don't
still his scheming brain for ever."

Once more Pietro looked at him. curiously.

Yes, you are dangerous," he said. " If
I were Matteo I should deem it a misfortune
that his Excellency did not strike a trifle
harder ; but remember, if you involve the
common safety I will kill you with my own
hand."

A fortnight ago," said the once brawny
ruffian, as he gazed at his now shrunken
limbs, " and the man who talked of killing
Giovanni would have felt he had no holiday
task before him. Now I could not struggle
with a child. Give me a pull at a wine-flask,
for Heaven's sake."

They have kept you short of liquor, no
doubt," replied Pietro, with a critical glance
at his companion. " It's ill feeding fevers
on stuff like this," and as he spoke the
bandit rose, and, fishing a flask out of the
little stream that trickled along the edge of
the plateau on the side where the tents were
pitched, proceeded to administer a cup of
wine to his invalid companion.

"Drink!" he exclaimed; "it will do
you good. It will send the life-blood
through your veins once more. The fever
has well-nigh left you, and your strength
will come back."

The shattered bandit greedily drained the
cup that was proffered him.

That's good stuff," said he, smacking his
lips; "the first I've tasted since his Excellency
struck me down up yonder. Ha ! it
puts heart in a man, that. Pill it again."

I will," replied Pietro ; " but, remember,
that's the last, and is more than you can
carry."

Pietro was right, for no sooner had he
drained it than the enfeebled man sank back
upon the heather, and dropped off to
slumber, like a child. His comrade looked
at him for a moment, and then threw a
cloak over him, with more tenderness than
could be expected from the rough marauder
he was.

There," he said, " sleep like that means

health and strength. He wants the wine
now, but not too much — and who shall
say what is Giovanni's idea of enough ? "

Old Jackson from a little distance had
watched the colloquy between the brigands
with breathless interest. He had taken it
into his addled old head that he was living
in an atmosphere of plot and intrigue, and
that the whole party depended upon his
alertness and vigilance. He could not
understand in the least what the two men
were saying ; but he could comprehend
Giovanni's gleaming eyes and vindictive
expression, and drew his own conclusions.


"If I only understood their lingo," he
muttered, mopping his brows; "but still, to a
man like me, who's spent his life in studying
faces to judge what their owners would take,
it's all clear as daylight. That scoundrel
with the bandages has got an all-round face;
he drinks all he comes across, with a preference
for something short very frequently.
They don't stick at trifles, that sort —

specially in the lower orders. A butler has
great opportunities. I know your generous
port-wine face, and your much-calculating
sherry and-seltzer countenance. It's the
old story of the babes in the wood over
again, and we're the babes. Those two
scoundrels were the villains of the fable,
and that ruffian in the bandages was advocating
the cutting our throats, while the
other, I fancy, was for merely emptying our
pockets. Now, Thomas Jackson, you just
pull yourself together, and think what's best
to be done. You've got to pull the whole
of r em through, and it requires a man of
gumption to do it, and you're the only one
of the lot that's got any gumption. You
were the only one who had the presence of
mind to call for the police when we were
taken. If they didn't come it wasn't your
fault."

But the more Jackson puzzled his brain
over the problem of escape the more intricate
it became. The old man, in fact, indulged
in a very Newgate Calendar of bloodshed,

and pictured deeds of violence that he
was perfectly incapable of committing. He
gravely discussed within himself the advisability
of knocking the sleeping brigand on
the head, the garrulous, tender-hearted old
man being as utterly wanting in the nerve
requisite for the shedding of blood as a
canary. Then Jackson took it into his
head that it was his duty to warn his fellow-captives
of their danger, and that they
should all prepare to sell their lives dearly,
and die like Englishmen. Then he reflected
that this would not much better things, that
if it was intended to put them to death
there could be very little doubt about their
captors carrying out their intentions. In
fact, the more Jackson thought about it the
less he saw what was to be done. One
thing was imperative, that it behoved him
to keep his eyes open, and watch over the
interests of the party.

Giovanni slept as if there had been no
whit of exaggeration in his statement that

he had been in the very jaws of death. But
for the rough though patient nursing of
some of his comrades he had never recovered
that terrible blow dealt by Patron
pistol. As the man progressed to
convalescence one curious thing was noticeable
: he bore no grudge against the Count,
who had so sternly rebuked his backsliding,
but cherished the fiercest animosity against
Matteo, who had brought that backsliding
to his Excellency's knowledge. During
those fever-tossed nights, which were the
first results of Patroceni's cruel punishment,
many a savage execration and fierce
threat against Matteo fell from his parched
lips, and Pietro, who had taken his turn in
watching by his comrade's bedside, felt that
those delirious words were likely to be made
good should Giovanni recover.

Had there been any one conversant withall
the complications of Patroceni's drama,
they could have formed but one opinion of
them — namely, that it is pretty sure to end

tragically. The Count himself is resolute towring
that thirty thousand pounds out of
his captives. Hamilton is scheming to
escape from the trap into which he has
fallen. Chisel, in his anxiety to discover
his master, hits fair to bring the gendarmes
down on the brigands, and thereby endanger
the lives of the whole party. Giovanni, in
his fierce thirst to avenge himself upon
Matteo, is likely to draw the attention of the
authorities also to the band, not from
deliberately betraying his comrades, but by
some savage act of bloodshed that will ring
through the country. Matteo, although as
thoroughly a bandit as any of them, spends
but little time amongst the mountains. He
has small stomach for fighting, and likes not
the crack of fire-arms or flash of steel ; and
he is, moreover, far more useful at the
pavilion in the Villa del Realee than he would
be amongst the woods. Stationed in Naples,
he is in a position to obtain all sorts of in-vol.

II. K

formation useful to the Count. Patroceni's
band have only lately established themselves
in the woods about Amain, and the
travellers worth trapping, who leave Naples
to visit that place, are not so numerous that
they can afford to pass any over. Matteo
enjoys great facilities for obtaining information
on the subject of tourists' intentions,
and this he at once transmits to the Count.
Then, again, the police are already in possession
of the story of Sir Jasper's abduction,
and, what is more, the discovery has
been made by Leroux, the most energetic
agent amongst them. Patroceni may be loth
to shed blood in the present instance, ruthless
as he has been at times in that matter
when it has served his purpose; but he is
likely ere long to find himself so placed that
it will be unavoidable. Lastly, we have old
Jackson thinking that it behoves him to
interfere in an affair that he doesn't understand.
Much misery and loss of life has

often been brought about by stupidity. An
obstinate num-skull has many a time set the
world by the ears.

Swelling with importance at his imaginary
discovery, and still keeping an eye
upon the sleeping bandit, Jackson continues
to turn over in his mind to whom he had
better confide the result of the conversation
he has overheard — whether he had better
inform Mr. Glanfield or Captain Hamilton
of the position in which they stand; for
Jackson, by this time, has worked himself
up to a belief that their fate trembles in the
balance, and has in a hazy way come to the
conclusion that they are only safe while
their evil angel — in the form of Giovanni —
sleeps. He is fascinated by the recumbent
brigand, and when Giovanni turns in his
sleep the dew stands upon Jackson's forehead.
The man is the very picture of the
bandit as drawn in children's story-books —
big, scowling, with livid face and dark, glittering
eyes ; a black-browed, swarthy ruffian,
k2

such as might haunt a child's dreams.
Jackson has no doubt that this is the
Count's right-hand man, and that when the
cutting of throats is the business in hand
Giovanni plays a prominent part in it.
Jackson is fully convinced that the majority
of the brigands have a natural taste for
murder, and that, though Patroceni may
protect them for a little, the hostile element
will prevail sooner or later, and their lives
be sacrificed, and in the opinion of Jackson
that time is not far distant. Watching
Giovanni's slumbers is to him like watching
the sleep of the executioner on whose
awakening he is condemned to die; the
gaunt, haggard brigand fascinating him as
the snake does the bird.

CHAPTER IX.

ENGLISH BRIGANDS.

The brigand of our own country differs from
his continental brother in his ways, although
in cruelty and lust of plunder there is little
to choose between them. The foreign
bandit betakes himself to the hill-side, as
our Robin Hood in days lang syne made his
home chiefly in the merry greenwood. But
the spread of knowledge and the progress of
civilisation have changed all this in these
Arcadian islands. The British bandit of
the century haunts the slums of big cities
as more calculated to afford prey than the
forest. Like his Italian brother, the maximum

of sport at the minimum of risk is his
motto; and, after the manner of all his
fraternity, let their country he what it will,
drink and tobacco constitute his ideas of
Elysium.

In one of the small streets that run between
Golden Square and Soho, a quaint
debateable land in which the artisan and
the adventurer live side by side, dwelt
Mr. George Bludd, a little slight, dark,
hook-nosed man, of an age that no one
could determine, and with a complexion
that is only attained by rigid economy in
the matter of ablution. Mr. Bludd was of
Hebrew extraction, and would have, doubtless,
described himself as a sporting gentleman.
In reality he was a vulture of the
turf, a small bookmaker ever on the alert
for robbery, and by no means particular in
what shape it presented itself. Not such a
halo of romance about him as there was
about his Excellency Count Patroceni (he
had been the accredited ambassador of a

self constituted government, which met
with most practical dissolution at the hands
of the executioner), but they levied their
taxes after the wont of their respective
countries in pretty similar fashion.

As Patroceni always thought there was
something to be wrung out of a man whom
chance threw in any shape within his power,
so did Mr. Bludd. Robert Coleman, the
footman, who had been Hamilton's confederate
at Wrottsley, whose business it had
been to remove those superfluous nines,
after bidding adieu to the sluggish stream of
country-house existence, had come to town
to dissipate the wages paid him by hamilton
in all the high revelry of music-halls
and Metropolitan gate-money race-meetings.
At one or other of these fashionable
resorts he had made the acquaintance
of Mr. Bludd, who, having ascertained that
he was the possessor of some ready-money,
at once constituted himself his friend and
comrade. He prompted him to back two or

three profitable winners at Windsor and
Croydon ; he introduced him to one or two
popular " comics " at some of the lower
music-halls, and generally contrived to impress
the ex-footman that he was seeing life
in real earnest, and that he was singularly
fortunate in having acquired the friendship
of such a very knowing and agreeable
gentleman as Mr. George Bludd. Now
Mr. Bludd, while participating in the
spending of Coleman's money, did not fail
to worm out of him his past history, and
how he had come by that money. Like the
Count, Mr. Bludd saw a small gold-mine in
this knowledge, and his way of availing
himself of his knowledge was identical
with the Count's. When Coleman's funds
ran short, it was Mr. Bludd suggested to
him the little game of change, which had
so sadly disconcerted Hamilton. The
Captain, to his dismay, discovered that his
two confederates in working Wheldrake's
downfall were insatiable concerning their

share of the plunder. The Count's demand
had been beyond his power to comply with ;
but for the silence of Coleman's tongue he
had paid by degrees no inconsiderable sum,
and with the pleasant conviction that the
ending of this black-mail was a matter
beyond computation. Hamilton's trip to
the Continent had preserved him from the
English brigands, but only to throw him
into the hands of their Italian namesakes.


Mr. Bludd's rooms were of that class
described in the stage directions of many a
farce. Scene : " Apartments poorly furnished."


At the present moment, perhaps, a
paraffin lamp and a bottle of gin were the
two most noticeable objects on the rickety
table by which the proprietor and his
friend, the ci-devant footman, were seated.
Mr. Bludd was a man who dined abroad at
restaurants, varying in class with his chameleon
circumstances. He was a haunter

of public bars, such as the Criterion,
where unfledged youth are wont to see
life, and lay down the law upon sporting
matters generally, only to be gobbled up
by the well-dressed, oily sharks lying in wait
for them, who listen with such deferential
attention to the words of wisdom that fall
from their foolish lips.

And so, Robert my boy, you're fairly
aground, without a shot in the locker?
You'll have to apply again to your old
banker. Bless you, ma tear, we've been
very tender with him ; when you get a man
under your thumb in this fashion he must
expect to provide you with all the little
luxuries of life."

i( But I don't know where he is, I tell
you," rejoined Coleman, pettishly; "he
never took the slightest notice of my last
letter," and Mr. Coleman gulped down his
gin-and-water in gloomy meditation.

"Most ungentlemanly thing!" replied
Bludd. " By Jove, ma tear, it's absconding

to avoid his liabilities ! We can't submit to
this sort of thing, Robert; no, no, we ain't
such flats as that, eh, Robert ? "

I've no more intention of letting him
off than you have ; but you must catch your
hare before you can skin him."

Just so, and it may be easy to trace
him. Some of your old fellow-servants can
give you his address, no doubt ; and, if he
is so rude as not to attend to letters, you'll
have to go and see him, Robert."

What, me ? I never was in those
foreign parts in my life. Supposing I did
know where he was, I could never find my
way to him."

"You're a little raw, ma tear," replied
Bludd; "you don't understand the advanced
locomotion of the present day. Bless you !
they'll book you to all parts of the world
from London and deliver you too. You
needn't know anything about it or anything
of the lingo : when in doubt show your

ticket, and they'll run you along somehow."


I don't understand you," rejoined Coleman.


Don't you, indeed ? " replied Bludd,
with a glance of almost compassion for his
companion's innocence. " You put a rat
and a ferret in a room with no outlet, and
that rat will fight ; give him a bolt-hole, and
that rat will run away. Captain hamilton
has run away ; but when ferret Coleman
fairly tackles him he'll fight to save his
name — fighting in his case means paying.
Ah, Robert, a little pull of this kind is
about as good an annuity as I know of;
keep 'em always on the strain, but don't
overdo it. Ma tear, always leave 'em a little
money to go on with. I've got a friend, a
tear friend, who happened to make a mistake
about writing his name years ago ; and,
bless me ! he's been good for many of my
little comforts since."

"Not good for much, I should think'
rejoined Coleman, sullenly, "or else you

wouldn't be living in such a hole as

this."

"There you are again, Robert. That's a
weak point in your character cropping up
again. You're all for show, you are ! Want
velvet chairs ; turns up your nose at a jolly
old Windsor like this ; goes in for silver
candlesticks, never reflecting that a bottle
does as well to stick a dip in as anything
else. As for me, I don't care for your
externals ; it's your internals I like. I likes
my dinner and my bottle of champagne
when times are good, and that, Robert, ain't
just now. Why, I haven't had hold of a
real innocent for weeks. Ah, it is great topick
up with one of those young gentlemen
from the Universities and be told in confidence
all about racing generally, and when
they want some one to back horses for them !
Eh, Robert ? " and Mr. Elude winked his
eye and indulged in a prolonged chuckle, ashe

thought of the many young men whose
pockets he had helped to lighten during
their academical career.

I must have money somehow," remarked
Coleman, as he puffed savagely at
the blackish cigar he was smoking.

Ah, you remind me of a great friend of
mine. That was his very remark, ( I must
have money.' He was a splendid fellow,
and, when he said that, somebody had to
suffer ; but he carried it too far at last."

What do you mean ? " inquired Coleman,
impatiently.

"Well, the last time he was in such
urgent want of it he got it as usual ; but
there was an old gentleman who was perverse
enough to die under the pressure put
upon him, and twelve pig-headed shopkeepers
returned a verdict adverse to my
friend."

"You don't mean to say he murdered a
man ? " ejaculated Coleman, quite aghast at
the relation.

Of course not; the old gentleman was a
nervous subject, and died probably of heart-complaint.
My friend was so disgusted that
he took off his hat to his fellow-creatures

shortly afterwards.' '

■>

And was ? " exclaimed Coleman,

excitedly.

Nothing," interposed Mr. Bludd, quietly;
"but that don't affect my regard for his
memory''

He was hung, in short ? "

"What's the good of using coarse language
! " rejoined Mr. Elude, with a half-twinkle
in his eye. " Say he met with a
bad accident from insecure scaffolding."

So it was settled between this precious
pair that Mr. Coleman should then and there
write to Jackson, the butler at "Wrottsley,
and endeavour to ascertain Captain hamilton's
address. That he got no reply to
that letter was a matter of course ; but he
very soon ascertained that the Captain was
travelling with Sir Jasper on the Continent,

and was not expected back till the autumn.
Moreover, he was informed that the party
were constantly on the move, and were at
present somewhere in Italy. Even Mr.
Bludd did not see exactly what was to be
done under the circumstances. As a curious
instance of how similar in their instincts are
these vultures of society, the same idea at
once occurred to Mr. Bludd that had presented
itself to Patroceni, to wit — To whom
was the information Coleman could give
valuable ? If further money was not to be
wrung from Hamilton, the secret surely
was saleable to the man who had suffered
for his (Hamilton's) crime. But there,
like the Count, he was checkmated by the
fact that Wheldrake was no more accessible
than the Captain. The great Mr. Bludd was
fain to confess at last that there was nothing
to be done but wait.

Now, a man who has abandoned himself
to a life of long debauchery, such as Coleman
had led of late, loathes the idea of work, and

needs fairly-lined pockets. Wait — that is
just what he could not afford to do. He was
not like his friend, Mr. Bludd, who was
never likely to want a living while foolish
people traversed the earth. Mr. Bludd was
a past-master in the art of preying on his
neighbours, and had endless shifts and
devices wherewith to cozen the stranger who
fell into his clutches ; but Coleman was as
yet a mere neophyte, more likely to be shorn
than to bring home wool, should he betake
himself to predatory practices.

Still, that powerful source of crime and
revolution, the unsatisfied intestine, was
working powerfully upon Coleman ; he did
not relish rough fare nor abstinence in the
matter of strong waters ; while his whilom
crony, Mr. Bludd, who had only been too
happy to feast at his expense while the
money lasted, showed no disposition to
return his hospitality. On the contrary,
Mr. Bludd evinced a decided disposition to
give him the cold shoulder, and expressed

VOL. II. L

considerable contempt for men who were
such "duffers as not to be able to lay their
hands on a five-pound note."

I suppose you've been high and dry
before this?" remarked Coleman, sullenly, in
answer to a most decided negative regarding
a small loan on Bludd's part.

Don't I tell you I am now, ma tear, or
of course I'd oblige a gentleman in trouble ;
but the sooner you gets to work the better."

Mr. Bludd, when excited, was apt to - be
wanting in the matter of diction.

I tell you I've no intention of returning
to the dull drudgery of service," rejoined
Coleman.

Certainly not, "Robert, certainly not; but
you'll have to go about with your eyes
skinned, and try your hand at picking up
some of the gold and silver that's strewn
about the Tom Tiddler's ground of London."

If I only knew how to begin," said
Coleman, wearily.

That's where it is," said Mr. Bludd, ashe

twisted his stubbly moustache ; " that's
what's the matter with you provincials ;
you've no originality. Why, bless you,
when it comes to getting your living on the
cross you have no idea of anything but
petty larceny. I've not been at the game
for some time ; but you see, ma tear, I got
the needle at Goodwood, and racing ain't
agreed with my health ever since. It's a
pretty mean sort of way of making money*
and you're liable to do time if you're
nailed ; but, as I'm about broke, we must
have a turn at the confidence trick. It's
beneath a man of my intellect ; but then,
you see, Robert my boy, you ain't up to
much, and it's just about suited to your
calibre."

"Well," said Coleman, "I don't much
like it, but money I must have. Still,
surely, that's too old a dodge."

Old ! bless you, I should think it was
common in Babylon, and an ordinary game
in the city of Damascus. There's one crop

never fails, Robert, and that's green-gosling
; and they trot about London clothed
in their down, with their beaks open, and
believe implicitly what the London sparrows
tell them. You ain't a bird-fancier, Robert
more's the pity — you ought to study the
London sparrow ; for cheek and cunning he
beats creation. Poxes, bah ! serpents, not
in it ! A London sparrow would give either
twenty in a hundred and beat them easy.
You don't catch him with the confidence
trick ; he believes in nobody, and is afraid
of nobody ! Don't you be down on your
luck ; we'll pick up our green gosling before
forty-eight hours are over; he's about
a-waiting to be plucked, and he'll waddle
home pretty naked when I have done with
him."

And so a thing came about which has
some little influence on this history. Coleman
and his friend Bludd laid themselves
out to perform the confidence trick, a
description of which is almost superfluous,

familiar as it must be to all readers of the
daily papers.

Bludd was a very little while before he
picked up his green-gosling. Then came
the usual exposure of flash notes on his
part, and the time-honoured story of his
having a thousand pounds left him to dispose
of in charity. At this juncture Coleman
, of course, turns up with five hundred
pounds in flash notes intrusted to him to
start a deserving man in business. The
usual result followed — exchange of pocketbooks
; and the one man remained in the
room to show his implicit confidence while
the other took a short stroll with his pocketbook.
Of course, things terminated in the
usual way ; it came to Bludd and Coleman's
turn at last to take their short stroll
with the gosling's pocket-book. Needless
to say, they forgot to stroll back again. Sofar
fortune had favoured the sparrows ; but
one, alas ! was no genuine London sparrow.
The gosling got tired of waiting; the gosling

got wrathful, as men will when they have
lost their money and been made fools of to
boot. Sad to say, he lost confidence, and
invoked the aid of the police. Mr. Bludd
vanished with the rapidity of a fraudulent
bank director. Mr. Coleman, easy man,
continued to frequent his usual haunts, and
found himself run in by the authorities
before forty-eight hours were over his head.
It was the old sequel — six months' imprisonment
to the neophyte who had fallen
into the toils, and deep regret on the part of
the magistrate that his companion did not
stand beside him in the dock.

CHAPTER X.

for maude's sake."

Captain Hamilton might be extravagant,
might be untruthful, and might possibly
have many other faults to boot, but
there was one thing no man could accuse
him of neglecting, and that was his own interests.
It was quite clear to him, and he
was not without warrant in drawing such
conclusion, that no life amongst them all
was in such hazard. He had taken it into
his head that Wheldrake had acquired great
influence over the bandit chief. lie could
not stoop to solicit the intercession of the

man whom he had so grossly wronged, but,
for all that, Hamilton did not see why he
should not utilise Wheldrake's interest by a
side-wind. He had paved the w 7 ay for all
this. He had promised that Maude should
have an interview with Wheldrake, and she
stood pretty w r ell pledged to interfere in his
behalf. Good ! that was not difficult, and
he would take very good care it was done at
once. A line to Wheldrake to say that
Maude wished to see him was little likely to
lack attention, and some one to convey it
was not difficult to find.

Wheldrake was sitting on his bed preparatory
to turning in for a few hours' sleep.
He knew he had a tedious journey before
him, and the quicker he could compass it
the more quickly would those very dear to
him be rescued from a situation of discomfort
and suspense. Like a prudent man
Cyril was anxious to husband his resources
and take rest whilst he could. But he was
strangely wakeful; the prospect of clearing

his name and the knowledge that his peerless
Maude was in the hands of Patroceni
and his crew had banished sleep from his
eyelids. It was all very well; the Count
chose to play the bon liable just now, but he
knew that he could be ruthless as a maddened
tiger when crossed. He recalled the
unsparing punishment meted out to Giovanni
but a few days back, and recognised
that any intervention of the police would
place them all in imminent danger of their
lives. He reflected that, though a stray
traveller like himself might be kidnapped
without attracting much attention, the disappearance
of such a party as Sir Jasper's
would be speedily brought to the notice of
the authorities, and the English Consul
would insist on their acting with promptitude
and vigour. This was the great danger
those he left behind him would run, that the
gendarmes might be on the track of the
band before he could reach Naples to warn
them not to interfere. He was musing overall

these things when one of the brigands,
putting his head into the tent, held up a
note and intimated that it was for the
signor. Wheldrake tore open the note,
which was in a hand he did not recognise.

Maude Eversley is extremely anxious
to see you before you start. If you retain
any affection for her be at the back of the
hut in an hour. She has something of importance
to say to you.' 5

Retain any affection for her ! Was she
not still all the world to him ? Meet her !
of course he would, and he turned to convey
that assurance to the bearer, but he had disappeared.
Wheldrake took out his watch,
and, having glanced at it, laid it upon the
bed, and awaited impatiently the expiration
of the intervening time. To lovers, they
say, such moments are leaden sandaled ; but
Wheldrake was so absorbed in the whole
situation that he did not find the time han
so heavy as most of his fellow-sufferers
in like circumstances. Before his watch

marked the stroke of ten lie was pacing restlessly
up and down in rear of the hut. It
.was dark, for the moon had not risen as yet.
Here and there a dim spark like a glowworm
glanced through the gloom, a faint
glimmer of some bandit's cigarette unfavoured
of Somnus. Scarce a breath stirred
the trees, it was a spot well fitted for a true
lover's meeting. Wheldrake had not long
to wait. A few minutes and the form he
knew well stole round the hut and advanced
towards him.

My darling!" exclaimed Cyril. "I am
so pleased to meet you once again ; " and he
would fain have taken her in his arms, but
the girl drew back and replied,

Mr. Wheldrake, I have sent for you in
order to ask a favour at your hands."

Cyril shrank back aghast. This cold response
to his passionate speech was like a
shower-bath, and it was in very different
tones that he responded,

Anything I can do to oblige Miss

Eversley she knows J shall be only too
happy to attend to at once."

It was, what is so common in this world,
a case of misconception. He had . never
written or let her hear of him in any way,
and she mistrusted her hold on his regard.
On the other hand, her " Mr. Wheldrake "
and rejection of his embrace confirmed him
in the idea that she had thoroughly put him
away from her favour, and gave confirmation
to the report that she was now engaged
to her cousin. A terrible scoundrel this
latter in Wheldrake's estimation; but he
knew that it is not always the true knights
who prove attractive to a lady's eyes.

It has ever been so. The paladins of old
went down in the boudoir before some
carpet-knight who shrank from the clash
of the steel in earnest ; as even now the
hero of a score of tough tussle is passed
over for the drawing-room dandy, who lives
his little life of eye-glass, ignorance, arrogance,
superciliousness, said failure.

Wheldrake said no more. He waited to
see what Miss Eversley would say next.
She need fear no further effusiveness on his
part. He was far too sensitive concerning
the stain on his name to think of reasserting
the privilege of a lover in the face of such a
rebuff as he had encountered.

I am given to understand' said Maude,
"that you have considerable interest with
Count Patroceni."

You have been misinformed, Miss
Eversley," rejoined Cyril. " I met him for
the first time at Homburg last year; met
him again at Wrottsley, as you know. You
saw what passed between us there. Is it
likely I am his friend, or have influence
over him ? I am his prisoner, like yourselves.
The man to me is a mystery. He
was the prominent worker of my ruin, and
yet he undoubtedly seems kindly disposed
towards me since I have been in his hands.
But that is a very different thing from
having interest with him. I, as you have

doubtless heard, am going as the accredited
ambassador to negotiate for our ransom ;
but that, again, you probably know, was
the mere luck of lot-drawing. It is no
pleasant thought to think that I carry your
lives in my hand — that any imprudence on
my part may jeopardise them."

You must not suppose that we could
wish our case in other hands. We all know
how thoroughly we can rely upon your
management. You underrate your influence
with Count Patroceni, Mr. Wheldrake. I
am given to understand, curious as it may
seem to you, that he is much prepossessed
in your favour."

What ! The man whom you yourself
heard proclaim me cheat and blacken at
Wrottsley ? Absurd ! The Count is cruel
and capricious, if I know anything of his
nature. He treats his prisoners as the cat
does the mouse within its claws. I could
fancy his captives undergoing the fate of
Aga when they had quite convinced themselves

that the bitterness of death was
past."

They were calling each other " Mr. Whelm
and "Miss Eversley." Little had
they thought on that sad night at Wrotts-
ley that when next they met they should
address each other in such constrained
fashion; but it is so easy to drift apart
when the feelings are involved and a misunderstanding
has arisen.

"You may be right," rejoined Maude.
You have had greater opportunities and
are far more capable than myself of forming
an opinion; but that only makes it more
imperative that you should use your influence,
if influence you have. You are
friendly with my cousin."

ei He took part against me in my hour of
need," returned Wheldrake, sternly.

So did my father," returned Maude, intones
which shook a little. " The appearances
which misled the one might well mislead
the other."

Wheldrake started as if stung. Where
was the wild, generous confidence of the girl
who scorned to believe aught against the
fair fame of her lover ? Maude spoke calmly
and judicially as one who would say, " I do
not hold you guilty ; but, you must own,
appearances were against you."

"I am only too anxious to obey Miss
Eversley's behests if within my power,"
replied Wheldrake, with studied politeness.

The girl drew herself up proudly, and it
was almost imperiously that she rejoined,
I should have thought an innate sense of
justice and natural compassion would have
prompted you to succour a fellow-creature
in danger, even if he had made the mistake
of once judging you harshly. My cousin
Fred Hamilton, you know, is in imminent
danger here. Our capricious captor has exhibited
a dislike of him even as he has
shown a kindly inclination towards yourself.
If you think this mere woman's imagining
on my part, ask your friend Mr. Glanfield,

who says he wouldn't take a hundred to one
about Fred's life."

I have had little, I might say no, opportunity
of forming an opinion on that point,"
he replied coldly. "I only know that he
was the Count's friend, that it was he originally
who introduced him to all of us, that
it was at Captain Hamilton's suggestion
Sir Jasper asked him to Wrottsley, and that
when he brought that foul charge against
myself it was Captain Hamilton who sided
with him and put his word before mine as
worthy of credence."

You must not be too hard upon Fred for
that," she cried, vehemently. " Remember
that he had known the Count longer than
he had you ; that, called on to decide in
such hurried fashion, he might well stand
up for the loyalty of his friend. He did
not know what Patroceni was in those
times. I doubt whether w r e any of us quite
understand him as yet."

Wheldrake remained silent for some little

VOL. II. M

time after Maude's speech. There could be
no doubt about it, the opinion of the world
had proved too strong for her, and she had
thrust him from her heart; perchance was
no longer so sure of his innocence as she
had been in the first instance. It was a
cruel disappointment. Of what availed it
to clear his name when she, for whose sake
he had striven so hard to do so, refused to
share it ; and that Maude Everslev would
say him nay should he again put his fortune
to the test Cyril entertained no doubt — cast
aside, too, for a man like Hamilton.
Did women ever love in earnest he wondered.


I have no wish to be hard upon hamilton,"
he said at length ; " though he
was not very lenient to me. Bat I am still
quite in the dark. What is it, Miss
Eversley, you want me to do ? "

Save my cousin's life ! I know it rests
within your power. A strong remonstrance
from you, before you start on your journey,

will stay Patroceni's coward hand," cried
Maude, excitedly.

Hush, Miss Eversley, pray restrain
yourself," interposed Wheldrake, in a low
voice. "We shall rouse the whole camp,
and no good can come of that. I have told
you before that you are much mistaken
concerning my influence over Patroceni.
Never mind that, we will suppose that you
are right. Do you care very much for
Captain Hamilton ? "

One usually loves one's own flesh and
blood," she retorted, tartly. " I have been
brought up with Pred, and that I love him
dearly is, I suppose, nothing astounding."
And the girl's eyes flashed almost defiantly
at her companion.

Ah, yes, I had forgotten," he retorted,
coldly, " though cousinship is not always of
so warm a growth. Never mind. hamilton's
life is matter of deep moment to you.
I can promise but little ; still, if the chance
M 2

comes to me, to save it, I pledge you my
honour it shall he done."

"Farewell, bon voyage, and good luck,"
said Maude, as she extended her hand,
which Wheldrake barely touched ; and then
the young lady flew rapidly hack to the hut,
and, burying her head on her pillow, cried
her eyes out.

Save that hound ! " muttered "Wheldrake,
as he walked back to his tent. "Well, if
she wills it, so must it be. I'd chance my
life to save a canary she cared about anytime.
But, his life safe, she shall know
the whole story, and decide whether he is
better than the banned man she has rejected.
She is right. Hamilton's life no
doubt is in danger. There is a possibility
of insuring his safety, and, for Maude's
sake, I'll try it."

CHAPTER XI.

WHELDRAKE FULFILS HIS Promise.

Darkness reigned over the camp, and its
denizens were for the most part locked in
slumber. Wheldrake lay stretched upon
his bed without the faintest inclination to
close his eyes. It was bitter to think that
this girl, to whom he had given all the passionate
love of his being, had ceased to care
for him. Yes, he would do it ; do it for her
sake. It might or might not come off ; but
that he was risking his life in either case he
could not in the least disguise from himself
his life more in danger perhaps should he

succeed in the daring attempt lie meditated.
One privilege only he reserved to himself with
steady determination. Maude should know
what manner of man this was for whom
she had put his love away from her. Yes,
there must be a certain amount of trickery
all round in it. He had deceived Maude,
he was going to attempt to deceive Patroceni
and his gang. They were men who stood
no nonsense, and it was very Hkely that
short shrift would be his when he was
detected; and Hamilton — yes, to a certain
extent he must deceive even him ; for
very manhood Hamilton would decline to
accede to his scheme otherwise. A man
may be a great scoundrel, but no cur ; and,
though Wheldrake regarded Red hamilton
as liar, blacken, and villain, yet even
he never doubted his courage. Now the
question was when should he commence
proceedings. Glanfield and Hamilton had
fared no better than old Jackson in their
bedroom accommodation ; like him they had

the turf for a couch, the sky for a coverlet.
Still, Wheldrake knew pretty well where
they were stretched ; not so close together
he had noticed while waiting to keep his
appointment with Maude, but it would be
possible to wake the one without disturbing
the other. Although there was no doubt
about there being several sentries round the
fringe of the wood — their eternal cigarettes
gleaming like fire-flies proved that only too
conclusively — these men made no attempt
to interfere with the movements of the
prisoners within their cordon. Wheldrake
rose and stepped cautiously out into the
darkness of the summer night. All was
still save the faint sigh of the breeze through
the trees, but Wheldrake fancied even now
he could catch a glimpse in the sky of the
rising moon, although that luminary was
not as yet visible. He listened long and
attentively at the door of Patroceni's tent ;
he even ventured to crouch down and steal
his head under the bottom curtain. The

quiet, low, regular breathing of the sleeper
completely reassured him. Then he made
his way softly in the direction of the spot
where he knew Hamilton had laid himself
down. It might be rough accommodation,
but Wheldrake could not but remark that
though stretched beneath the stars they had
never slept sounder within the walls of
Wrottsley. Cautiously he made his way
until he came to Hamilton, and, stooping
down, placed his hand lightly on his
shoulder.

Hamilton would have sprung to his
feet at once had not Wheldrake' s firm grasp
restrained him.

Hush ! " he whispered, " not a word !
Get up and follow me. Your life is in
extreme danger."

Hamilton rose without further comment,
and quietly followed Wheldrake back
into the tent. When they got within it,
Cyril said coldly —

I told you next time we played, Captain

Hamilton, our lives would be the stake,
little thinking my wild words would so soon
come to pass. I have little cause to love
you, little cause to spare you, but I cannot
see you murdered in cold blood. None of
our lives are, I believe in auy jeopardy but
yours. Patroceni, for reasons we have no
time to go into, seems to have conceived a
peculiar animosity to yourself, and you will
be the victim should there be any hitch in
the negociations. We must change places."

We shall do nothing of the sort," said
Hamilton, quietly, " I don't for one
instant admit the allegations that it has
pleased Patroceni to make against myself.
I have been his dupe even more than you.
I must pay the penalty."

Nonsense, I tell you I am in no danger ;
you are ! Don't think even now you won't
run a tremendous risk. I will describe it to
you, and you shall elect then whether or no
you will attempt to escape. Your escort
is, or was to be, Sarini, the Count's right-hand

man. He knows, as they all do, that
I won the drawing of lots which decided
who was to go into Naples about this
ransom. For the others, that this arrangement
has been changed will not, I think,
seem very astonishing ; to Sarini it probably
would, for he is very much more in Patron
confidence than any of the others. I
should scarcely have suggested this change
of parts to you if I had not heard that Sarini
had to-day met with an accident. That
accident may prevent his being your
escort."

No, Wheldrake, I can hardly buy my
life at your hands in this fashion. Luck
has ordained that you are to go to Naples —
go."

u It shall be as you wish," returned
"Wheldrake, coolly. " You will run quite
risk enough if you attempt my scheme; if
your nerve fails you don't try it," he concluded,
coldly.

The taunt stung Hamilton as it was

intended to do. He felt it was better to die
in a daring attempt to escape than to go
like a sheep to the shambles — the risk
tempted him as Cyril meant that it should.
He hesitated for a few minutes and then
said, " Mr. Wheldrake, I am in your hands ;
you shall do what you deem best for myself
and the rest of us."

Good ! then you will go ? " rejoined
Wheldrake. " There is a big cloak and a
sombrero to slouch over your brows. Lie
down on that bed ; I shall be on the ground
behind it. Let me speak for you in the first
instance, and if I find Sarini is to accompany
you it is too risky to be attempted ; otherwise
I believe my plan to be quite feasible."

I accept your offer' replied hamilton,
" and pledge myself to be guided by
you in every particular.' '

"then remember this," said Wheldrake,
in low tones of concentrated passion : " I am
doing my best to save your life at the bidding
of one for whom I would risk fifty lives

if I had them. Be false to your trust, put
a hair of her head or that of any of the rest
of them in danger, and I will slay you with
my own hand, wherever I find you, should
I escape from the hands of Patroceni.
What wrong you have done me I pardon
you; but fail me now and you have an
enemy who rocks his life as nothing, and
will be thoroughly unsparing in his vengeance."


A tempting offer," sneered Hamilton.
I risk my life in attempting to escape,
chance number one against me. I make a
relentless enemy if I bungle my mission,
chance number two against me. I only
risk my life if I stay here. Two to one
against your scheme on the whole. I think
I will remain.

As you will. One can only draw the
bolts for a captive ; if he's afraid to run the
gauntlet of the warders one can do no more.
Be it as you wish."

I am not afraid," rejoined Hamilton,

fiercely, " though I have no fancy to die if
I can help it. You'll not see me blench if
these beggars put me up for a target tomorrow."


I have fulfilled my promise," said
Wheldrake, coldly, as he walked leisurely
to the door of the tent, "it is for you to
decide. You may estimate your danger
more correctly than I do, but I think it
may go hard with you here."

He glanced out at the moon now visibly
rising behind the trees. "You have not
much longer to make up your mind," he
remarked over his shoulder; "the moon will
top the cedars before half-an-hour is past,
and that seems to be the signal-gun for all
expeditions in this camp."

Hamilton made no reply, but sat upon
the bed plunged apparently in sullen reverie.
Wheldrake paid no attention to him, but
stood at the tent-door, apparently equally
absorbed in his own thoughts.

"They are stirring amongst the trees,"

he remarked at last as he turned and
walked slowly hack into the tent. " Wrap
yourself in the cloak. Pull the somhrero
well over your brows, and lie down upon
the bed."

For a minute or two Hamilton hesitated,
and then without the slightest comment
did what "Wheldrake desired. An
interval of ten minutes, and then " Sign or,
signor ! " was uttered in Sarini's tones
through the door of the tent. " It is time
you were on the move."

Hist ! " whispered Wheldrake, as he laid
his hand on Hamnierton's breast. " Let
me speak to them and see how the land
lies."

Ah, signor ! " said Sarini, as Wheldrake
appeared, "I am so distressed that the
fates forbid me to be your escort. I can
but see you start, and bid you God-speed.
I twisted my ancle crossing the steppingstones
of the rivulet this afternoon — slipped
on that treacherous centre-stone where the

lichen grows so strongly — and, Corps di
Bacclw! my limb is no better to me at
present than a wooden one."

The man was walking with a stick and
the assistance of one of his fellows.

« I regret, Signor Sarini, not to have the
benefit of your guidance," replied Whelm
courteously, " and more especially
the misfortune that deprives me of it ; but
I have no doubt that you have selected a
perfectly efficient deputy."

Sarini shrugged his shoulders, and said
quietly, " Pietro will do his best, signor."

It reminded Wheldrake of the famous
line at the conclusion of " Plot and Passion,"
when Pouches takes the pinch of snuff upon
hearing his portfolio is withdrawn, and
exclaims, " What ! Salary after me!" It
was the equivalent to the Bourbons after
Napoleon clearly in Sarini' s eyes. (l He is
probably right," thought Wheldrake, "but
it is much more to my purpose that it
should be so. Salary is far preferable to

that terrible Duke of Otranto in such circumstances.


I shall be ready for you in a few
minutes," he replied, and turned back again
into the tent. " Listen ! " he continued ina
low voice, as he gripped Hamilton's
arm, " your chance has come ; don't let
your nerve fail you. Keep your face well
muffled against the raw air of the morning,
and, above all, don't speak if you can help
it, and then as briefly as possible. Here
they are again — now." Hamilton rose
quickly from the bed, and, as Wheldrake
said aloud, " Quite ready, Signor Sarini,"
stepped through the door of the tent.

It was an anxious moment for hamilton.
Who could say that amongst the little
group outside might not be Patroceni to
give some last instructions ; but such fears
proved groundless. Sarini was there, leaning
on a stick, and evidently in pain. He
contented himself with bidding the supposed
Wheldrake a brief adieu, and, handing him

over to Pietro and three of his comrades,
waved his hand as a signal for the party
to proceed. Two or three minutes, and
they were through the sentries, and rapidly
threading their way through the wood.

At the expiration of about ten minutes
they stopped, and Pietro gave a low whistle,
which was almost instantly replied to.
Another minute or two, and from amidst
the trees came a man leading a mule, on
the back of which was, apparently, a rude
ambulance. Hamilton gazed with no
little astonishment at this addition to their
number; and Pietro, after exchanging a few
words apparently with the occupant of the
ambulance, gave the signal to proceed, and
said : —

Ah, signor, it is only that poor devil
Giovanni, who was near losing his life on
your account. You saw him struck down, and
only he has a skull of granite there would
have been only his burial to see about ; but
he's come round. He wants nursing and

VOL. II. N

better food than we can give him here to
restore his strength. Ah, signor, his Excellency
is merciless in his anger. He does
not get in a passion like other men; but
one would be safer with one possessed than
with him. There just comes a glitter in
his eye, such as one could fancy in a tiger's
before it springs, and the boldest man
might tremble for his safety then."

Now this was, of course, to a great extent
incomprehensible to Hamilton. He had
never heard of Giovanni ; but it was clear
that he was the victim of the Count's
wrath, and had narrowly escaped with his
life. That was a circumstance that did not
much interest Hamilton ; but these revelations
of Pafcrocenfs ruthless temper had a
strange fascination for him, and, regardless
of Wheldrake's caution, he could not resist
saying :—

You stand in great dread of his Excellency,
apparently ? "

This, however, did not produce the premature

discovery that Wheldrake was so
anxious to avoid. He argued that, should
the discovery be made close to the camp,
the brigands in charge of Hamilton
might refer back to the Count or Sarini for
fresh instructions; but if they were well
on their way they would hesitate to lose the
time that would necessitate. One of the
party was as good as another for arranging
this matter of ransom, and nothing was more
probable than that the decision of the lots
had been changed by mutual arrangement
amongst themselves. But Pietro had not
been in close charge of Wheldrake like
Sarini, and was, consequently, by no means
familiar with his voice, and it was without
mistrust he replied : —

I've chanced my life, like all of us,
many a time; but it would be all child's
play to falling under the ban of his Excellency.
Signor, those who for fear of
the authorities would turn against him,
don't know him. I'd rather be a marked
n 2

man by the police in all Europe than incur
the chiefs displeasure. I'd feel safer in
prison yonder," and he waved his hand, as
Hamilton supposed, in the direction of
Naples, "than know myself the object of
his Excellency's enmity."

They continued to push forward at a
rapid rate, and, as the sun got higher in the
heavens, Hamilton felt his cloak oppressively
warm. The sharp walk had constrained
his companions to throw aside the
upper muffling which most of them had
worn at starting, and they were now swinging
along with these garments either thrown
over their arms or on the reverse side of the
ambulance containing Giovanni. hamilton
felt at last that he must follow their
example, and discard his cloak. He threw
it back, and Pietro immediately exclaimed
: —

Let me throw it on the mule for you.
The signor will travel easier." Then, as he
took the cloak from him, and the broad

daylight disclosed Hamilton's identity, he
ejaculated, "Holy Virgin, it's the other
signor ! "

You were not told, then, by Sarini ? "
replied Hamilton, nonchalantly ; " he
would hardly think it worth mentioning.
It was settled among ourselves I should go
after all."

Por a few moments Pietro looked puzzled,
but then he reflected that Sarini had fetched
Hamilton out of the tent, and handed the
prisoner over to him. It must be all right ;
besides, his orders were to lose no time
in getting to the outskirts of Naples, where
the prisoner was to be free to follow his
own dictates.

His Excellency knows best," grumbled
Pietro ; " but I don't see the use of drawing
lots if you're not to abide by them ; however,
my orders are to see you to Naples,"
and Pietro strode on in silence.

CHAPTER XII.

THE GAME BEGINS.

Police-agent Leroux meanwhile is highly
delighted with his discovery; a case this
after his own heart; his head against the
chief of the banditti — an illiterate, ignorant
robber, no doubt: why it was a case of a
game between a rough provincial performer
and a skilled artist ! Capital ! Bold, commonplace
cut-throat sends in and demands
ransom ; prisoners to lose their ears or lips
if the money be not forthcoming by date
named by envoy entrusted with this marauding
mountain-kinglet's commission ; living

like other royal but more recognised families
on irregular taxation. Clearly the business
of police-agent Leroux was to outwit this
bandit, and lay him and his crew by the
heels as speedily as might be. Leroux did
not overlook the fact that he had a delicate
affair to manipulate, a matter requiring
infinite skill and finesse. He had in the
first instance to get Sir Jasper and his party
safely out of the hands of his abductors, and
that without paying the ransom which he
had no doubt would be placed upon them.
Secondly, police-agent Leroux was not as
yet satisfied regarding Mr. Chisel. He
could not decide as to whether the valet
was an innocent man or an exceeding crafty
villain. When Chisel suggested on their
return journey to Naples that it might be
his master had also fallen into the hands of
the brigands, Leroux rather scoffed at the
idea ; but he had since come to the conclusion
that that solution of Signor Whcl-
drake's disappearance was very possible.

Quite likely that he had fallen into the
hands of these gentry somewhere between
Pompeii and Naples; still, in the meanwhile,
it would be well to keep a watchful

eve on Chisel.

%i

Police-agent Leroux was quite impatient
for the next move of the enemy. Until
their envoy arrived in Naples he felt he
could do nothing. That envoy might even
be in Naples at this moment, and he not
know it. He questioned and questioned
Chisel with a view to discovering with whom
Sir Jasper would be likely to communicate ;
but, though the valet was quick-witted
enough, he could only suggest people already
obvious to Leroux — the English consul, Sir
Jasper's bankers, with all of whom the
police-agent was already in communication.
Nothing for M. Leroux, evidently, but to
wait the appearance of the bandits' emissary
in Naples ; sooner or later he was bound to
disclose himself, as he could hardly hope to
carry his mission to a successful conclusion

without doing so; till then both he and
Chisel were doomed to that most trying of
all things in times of excitement — inaction.

Leroux counted on getting the first news
of Sir Jasper's party from his bankers. The
bureau of the police the brigands' messenger
would, if wise in his generation, naturally
shun, any interference of the myrmidons of
law being calculated to sign the death-warrant
of those he had left behind him. The
Neapolitan police might be quite incompetent
to deal with it, but they had wide
experience of the ways of brigandage, and
thoroughly understood the customary usages
of the craft. Without the system of ransom
it would be a poor calling; as what Mr.
"Wemmick terms the " portable property,"
carried by travellers in these days, would be
poor recompense for the risk and hardships
of the profession; but that grand old institution
of the Middle Ages, the holding prisoners
to ransom, was extremely profitable ;
and, though a case so near Naples had been

rare of late, yet in more remote districts
messieurs the brigands had given proof that
they were not to he trifled with,

One morning police-agent Leroux was
informed that the chief of the bureau
desired to see him, and upon his repairing
to that functionary's cabinet he was addressed
with —

Well, Leroux, these scoundrels have
spoken at last; but, if it hadn't been for
your judicious arrangement with the head
clerk of Toldii and Kratz, I fancy we should
never have heard of it."

Ah, they should be more liberal in the
matter of salary to confidential clerks."

You had better go down with this note
from me; tell them" — and here the great
man almost swelled with the importance of
his position — u that nothing escapes the
knowledge of the Neapolitan police: that
your orders are to be present at their next
interview with this envoy from these
scoundrels of the mountains ; that we

have made up our hinds to settle with these
gentry and put an end to such a scandal so
near the city. You will, of course, take
care to be disguised ; make yourself up in
any character that seems good to you."

"Very good, signor," rejoined Leroux,
your orders shall be attended to at once,
and I shall, of course, report to you as soon
as possible. Old imbecile ! " he muttered to
himself as he left the room, u if I followed
his instructions these English would never
see their miserable island again."

Once in his own room, and Leroux's
spirits rose, like that suppositious war-horse
which sniffs the battle from afar. Disguise
himself ! Bah ! There was not much
necessity for that ; still it might simplify
matters if he were to dress after the fashion
of a banker's clerk; perhaps it might be
as well to conceal his identity ; and working
out a thing of this kind he knew from
experience that it was always as well to
keep your real personal appearance in the

background as far as possible. A police-agent,
like an actor, is simply not master of
his profession unless lie can, so to speak,
jump, after a few minutes' preparation, into
a new skin. If he cannot make up so as
to defy recognition he can never hope to
achieve the first rank as a detective. It is
essential that an officer of this class should
be protean. Child's play all this to Leroux.
False eyebrows, a wig, a few dashes of the
pigments, a change of clothes, and he
walked out into the street an elderly clerk
of some business house, instead of the
smart-looking police-agent, and made his
way quietly down to the banking establishment
of Toldii and Kratz.

The astonishment of the partners when
Leroux sent in his note was extreme.
Hamilton had requested them to keep
his presence in the city a profound secret,
and more especially from the police ; and
the bankers were wondrously puzzled as to
how on earth the police had learnt that

Patroceni's envoy had arrived in the city,
for, thanks to Hamilton, Messrs. Toldii
and Kratz knew who the chief of the
brigands was, a fact of which the police were
as yet in ignorance. It was awkward — very
awkward ; they had pledged their word to
Captain Hamilton to communicate neither
with the police nor the English Consul.
Hamilton, despite everything that had
gone before, was undoubtedly desirous of
acting loyally and doing his very best for
the captives he had left behind him. That
any interference of the police might prove
hazardous he thoroughly comprehended, yet
here was the very thing he was so anxious
to guard against about to take place.

Signor Toldii remarked that it was very
awkward, and Signor Kratz replied that
it was very unfortunate, but no one ever
dreamt of disputing the decrees of the police
in Naples ; and so at last Signor Toldii gave
orders that the bearer of the note was to be
admitted. A few minutes and Leroux was

ushered into the room, in appearance the
facsimile of an old banking-clerk. The
partners stared with considerable surprise
at the new comer; they had never experienced
the visitation of the police before, and their
representative was so utterly unlike what
they had expected.

Perhaps you will take a chair," said
Toldii, the senior partner, " and explain a
little more comprehensively what it is you

wish, signor — signor " and then the

banker took his double eye-glass out for
the purpose of reading the agent's card.

"Leroux," interposed that gentleman,
quietly ; " this case is in my hands, and the
sooner I explain to you what I mean doing
the better. It can be told you in one
word — Nothing. You will allow me just to
hear what demands these gentlemen make
and we shall exercise our own discretion in
dealing with them in future ; for the present
we are quite aware it would be most injudicious
on our part to interfere."

"But the ambassador of these brigands
is most desirous to keep his mission a secret
as far as possible,"

"He is, of course, one of the prisoners
themselves, released to negotiate for the
freedom of his companions. Nothing is
easier than for me to be present when he
arrives. He has come to you for a large
sum of money. Well, I am Signor Stein,
the money-lender, who proposes to help you
in raising the sum required if I see my
way, but I naturally wish to understand
the whole of a delicate transaction like
this. If it is blundered I may find that
I have parted with my money and that
those to whom I look for payment are dead.
Emphatically there must be no interference
of the police. I decline to advance a stiver
if it is not carefully kept from their ears ;
they are quite as much bandits as the
others, and will think, not of the lives of
the captives, but how they can make most
money."

The bankers started at this touch of
Leroux's histrionic powers. He had thrown
himself at once into his assumed character,
and was to all intents the shrewd businesslike
money-lender, anxious to do a profitable
stroke of business, if the risk were
not excessive.

A smile of satisfaction crossed Leroux's
face at the astonishment of the partners.
It was an unfeigned compliment to his
powers as an artist, and no man — much
less a Frenchman — but would thoroughly
appreciate that. (( You will do what I
want, I see. When do you expect the
bandit's emissary ? "

"Almost immediately," replied Signor
Toldii ; " but do you know who you have
against you? Are you aware who this
bandit chief is ? "

Certainly not. This, to our knowledge,
is the very first outrage perpetrated by
the band in this neighbourhood. I have
no doubt we shall arrive at his name ina

day or two, and find a very complete
biography of him in our books."

Yes, you'll know his name well enough
when you hear it," suddenly ejaculated
Kratz. u You've got against you the most
daring, most ruthless, and cleverest man
that ever fate drove to the mountains, — a
man of high birth, great abilities, and good
education. I can speak with authority;
for I have been in his hands, and am a
poor man comparatively to this day inconsequence."


There is only one man in our annals
answers that description'' interposed Le-rout,
excitedly. " Do you mean to say
that it is Patroceni himself? "

"Yes!" almost screamed Kratz; "the
villain who wrung from me the hard earnings
of years. But what would you ? Life
is sweet, and it was that or my gold. I
would not sign the drafts they put before
me till I found myself bound and looking
down the muzzles of half-a-score carbines.

VOL. II. o

I caught my breath at the word ' Ready ' ;
it was weak; but when Patroceni, after a
minute's interval, gave the word c Present ! '
I cried out, ' I will sign, I will sign ! ' "

"And I suppose at the next word they
were to fire ? "

Kratz nodded assent ; and it was evident
that the old man's thoughts went back to
that morning, years ago, when he had made
up his mind to look on the sunlight for
the last time, and blenched at the last moment
in the face of the levelled carbines.

He was very much older than his partner,
and it was only by the withdrawal of the
bulk of his capital, which entailed the forfeiture
of his position as leading partner in
the house, that he had procured the wherewithal
to satisfy Patroceni's exorbitant
demands.

It's a very sore subject with him, poor
fellow." said Signor Toldii, in a low tone, to
Leroux. " This Count Patroceni he says,
truly, w ell-nigh ruined him years ago."

At this moment one of the clerks entered
with a card, and, after glancing at it, the
banker gave orders to show the gentleman
in.

This Captain Hamilton," continued
Toldii, "is the prisoner the Count has released
to treat for the ransom of his
captives."

Leroux said nothing ; he was endeavouring
to recall what he had heard about this
Patroceni. At the bureau they were full of
stories of his audacity and ability both as
brigand and political outlaw; but during
the two or three years that Leroux had
been in the Italian service nothing had been
heard of him ; and Leroux regarded him
as a somewhat mythical personage, upon
whom all tales of audacious violence were
fathered, and now he was committed to a
veritable duel with the celebrated outlaw.

Leroux, as said before, was an enthusiast
in his profession. He felt as a keen sportsman
might feel on receiving the intelligence
o2

that there was a stag-royal on the hillside,
as the Indian shikaree might feel when he
heard there was a tiger of mark in his
immediate vicinity.

Another moment, and Hammer ton enters.
He has been to his hotel, dressed, breakfasted,
and washed all stain of travel from
his person. A good-looking, dashing, ex-soldier,
whom Leroux regards attentively.
He greets the partners with easy assurance ;
but at the sight of the police-agent stops
abruptly.

"The business I've come about, Signor
Toldii, is strictly private, as you know."

Most certainly ; but it is absolutely
necessary that we should take this gentleman
into our confidence. Let me introduce
you to Signor Stein — Herr Stein, I believe,
I should say — the greatest financier we have
in Naples. When it comes to raising such
a sum as, I fear, you will require, it is
absolutely necessary to have his assistance.
Now, Captain Hamilton, we will proceed

to business. You want a big sum of money,
and, under the circumstances, you want it
as quickly as may be. The first question
is, briefly, how much must we endeavour to
find ? "

"Thirty thousand pounds English," replied
Hamilton, curtly ; (i and it's no use
thinking of a reduction of terms. We've
tried all that. Patroceni has got us, like
rats, in his trap. He knows we can find
that, and he means to have it before he
releases Sir Jasper and the others."

Thirty thousand pounds ! " gasped
Toldii.

Thirty thousand pounds ! " shrieked
Kratz. " The bandit ! The brigand ! The
extortioner ! Thirty thousand pounds !
That villain Count will leave you all
paupers, as he left me."

Thirty thousand pounds ! " muttered
Leroux to himself. " A great man, this;
a man worth playing against. The boldness
of the conception shows the greatness of

the intelligence. The old man there was
right; this is no ordinary robber, but a
very king of bandits ! "

It sounds a big sum," continued hamilton,
el but it is useless to waste time
in discussing what is long past discussion.
If you can't find this sum amongst you,
tell me who else to go to. As for who
Sir Jasper Eversley is, go to the British
Consul, and he will satisfy you that he could
find four times that amount in extremity ;
but remember every day — nay, every hour —
is precious. Pay for money raised off-hand,
in this manner, we must. We are in your
hands, gentlemen. I can only pray you to
be moderate in your demands. What does
the Signor Stein say ? "

Might I ask the exact position of this
gentleman's camp ? " inquired Leroux,
suavely.

ce No," rejoined Hamilton, sharply ; " I
am pledged to give no information on that
point to any one, and there are five lives

dependent upon my silence. What matters
it to you where my friends are in durance ?
Can you, and will you, assist to find this
money ?

I apologise, sign or, for my indiscretion,"
replied Leroux, rising. " I will leave
you to talk matters over with the Signors
Toldii and Kratz, whom I feel quite sure
may assure you that the sum you require
will be forthcoming." And so saying,
Leroux shook hands with the partners, and,
with a low reverence to Hamilton, left
the room.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE DISCOVERY.

The low twittering of the birds breaks the
stillness of the camp as the first streaks of
dawn appear above the trees heralding the
rapidly approaching day. If the birds deem
it time to bestir themselves it apparently
strikes nobody else that there is any necessity
for it. One or two of the brigands
rolled themselves closer in their cloaks as
they became conscious of the chilliness of
daybreak. The sun rose higher and higher
in the heavens, and still the inmates of the
camp showed no disposition to arouse themselves.

The gentlemen of the road, or, for
the matter of that, the criminal classes of all
nations, generally are wont to " lie in bed
to digest their dreams" ; and when you are
used to it you can digest your dreams quite
as comfortably on the grass in these southern
climes. At length the stillness that rests
upon the community is broken by a splendid
groan, and the outraged Jackson sat up in
his lair. That dreadfully discomposed old
servitor was quite ready to declare that he
had never closed an eye all night ; that in
no gentleman's family that ever he'd seen
had he known a case of an upper servant
being called upon to sleep out on a grass-plat
as if he were a dog.

I've got rheumatism in every bone," he
grumbled, as he anxiously rubbed his arms
and legs ; " and to think how I kept a-filling
his glass at Wrottsley. No more furrin'
counts for me. If there's one vice that's
disgusting it's ingratitude, and to treat a
man in my position in this way : if it wasn't

that my bones ache so, I'd say it was all
his ignorance. An English gentleman understands
it. Lord, when he goes to stay at
a country-house he knows the master of it
is only second fiddle : it's the butler's the
first violin ; it's to him that he looks for all
his little comforts ; it's the butler humours
all his little whims about wine, liqueurs,
and sees he gets that glass of sherry before
dinner, indispensable to his comfort. Sleep! "
he ejaculated, " who could sleep, not knowing
but what he'd find his windpipe slit
before morning? Safe so far," he continued,
passing his hand over his throat; " but
with that murdering scoundrel with the
bandaged head thirsting for our blood, who
can say how many hours more life there is
left for us?"

Old Jackson, in reality, had slept the
sleep of the seven sleepers, and trumpeted
through the night-hours like a fog-horn.

No," he continued, "I can't be expected
to keep such a terrible discovery to myself;

it's more than any one man can carry on his
mind. Mr. Glanfield is the only one of
them that's got any gumption. I suppose
I'd better take him into my confidence. If
we ever are to come alive out of this nest
of hornets, I suspect it's Thomas Jackson
who will have to manage it."

He rose as he spoke, and walked across to
where Glanfield was sleeping tranquilly,
and, shaking him by the shoulder, said, in a
thick, mysterious whisper —

Mr. Glanfield ! Mr. Glanfield ! I've got
something terrible to tell you, sir."

"If that's all you've got to tell, you might
just as well have let me have my sleep out.
Now, then, what is it ?"

And then Jackson, in solemn tones, and
with many starts and nervous glances from
side to side, unfolded his version of the conversation
he had overheard between Pietro
and Giovanni. Glanfield listened to him in
silence, and, when he had finished, said
quietly —

"You are one of the astute men I
know, Jackson. Perhaps there isn't a
better judge of weights ever saw the Heath ;
but you beat me this time altogether. You
don't know one word of Italian — Pietro and
Giovanni speak nothing else. How the
deuce did you know what they were talking
about ? "

Mr. Glanfield," replied Jackson, with
an air of ineffable disdain, " I saw it in
their faces."

I'll tell you what it is, Jackson ; you're
seeing a lot, you know. Strikes me you're
professing to understand faces a long way
ahead of the rest of us ! "

Butlers always does, sir," replied old
Jackson, pompously. " It's the practice
they get, it's the always studying what a
gentleman will take, does it."

Oh, go away, you old fool," replied
Glanfield ; " our lives are in no manner of
danger. Mr. Wheldrake must be half way
to Naples by this ; but if we are to die it is

not Pietro or Giovanni will decide upon our
fate ; that question is in the hands of Count
Patroceni."

Old Jackson deigned no reply — quite
evident to him now that Mr. Glanfield was
not to be relied upon, and that the preservation
of the whole party lay upon his
shoulders alone.

Sir Jasper and the ladies were astir
betimes. Sleeping " under the greenwood
tree " may be all very well when you are
used to it, but, let the weather be balmy as
it may, it is apt to produce restless nights
in the first instance. Camp life is usually
early, but on this occasion the visitors were
afoot before their host.

Good morning, Mr. Glanfield," exclaimed
Mrs. Fullerton, as she and Maude
issued from their hut. "I never slept
better, I declare. Really, this picnicing in
the mountains is quite pleasant."

I don't know what you call pleasant,"
growled Sir Jasper. (i The Count calls it

an al-fresco hotel, and considering the bill
it ought to be the very best in Europe. I
am bound to say the table is tidy, as far as
it goes, and, by Jove ! so it ought to be ! "

Yes," rejoined Cranfield, slowly. "'s
got us in a tight corner, and
there's no getting out except at a heavy
loss. Well, Sir Jasper, it's happened to us
often enough racing. It's no use making
wry faces because you find yourself in the
hole."

Yes, ma'am," said old Jackson, who,
with a face about the length of Oxford
Street, cut into the conversation. iC Yes,
ma'am, in the hole, and that's about where
we shall find ourselves before twenty-four
hours are past, as far as I can gather from
these miscreants' conversation. May the
grass grow lightly over our heads, as the
poet says."

ci Go away, you old croaker," rejoined
Glanfield, sharply. " Don't pay any attention
to him, Mrs. Pullerton. The old idiot

has seen two of the band disputing and
gesticulating, probably about some private
quarrel of their own, and has jumped to the
conclusion that they were discussing what
they shall do with us."

Where is Fred, Mr. Glanfield ? " suddenly
exclaimed Maude, gazing round with
a troubled expression on her countenance.

Hamilton ? I don't know ; I haven't
seen him this morning. Here, Jackson,
you know, you never closed an eye all
night. What's become of Captain hamilton
? He slept not many yards from
both of us. Did you see him get up ? "

No, Mr. Glanfield, I didn't, and that's
the truth. I was so absorbed in keeping
my eye "

"That will do; you were struck out of
all events that required keeping your eyes
open pretty early in life. I don't suppose
Hamilton is far off; in fact, our friends
here take deuced good care that we shall
none of us be very far off."

I wish I could see Fred ! " exclaimed
Maude; "I feel rather uneasy about him.
You know you said yourself, Mr. Glanfield,
you wouldn't take a hundred to one about
his chance."

I said so ? " exclaimed Glanfield, for a
moment completely puzzled; and then it
flashed across him that he had told hamilton
that he thought it was those odds
against his life — a brutal speech he was fain
to admit now, but then it was made in his
first hot wrath at the disclosure of the Captain's
duplicity ; but how had Maude come
to know of this ? It could only be from
one source, Hamilton himself, and Cranfield'
s lip curled at the idea of any man who
could play upon a woman's nerves by enlarging
on the dangers of his situation.
Othello won Desdemona's love by telling of
the perils he had gone through ; but Othello
only descanted on the perils of the past,
never hinting at those to come ; and then it
struck Glanced that, whatever else he might

be, Hamilton was no coward. He had
some object in saying this to Maude, and
what could that object be ?

You don't answer, Mr. Glanfield. Is it
because something has happened to Fred,
and you are afraid to tell me ? "

No ; I assure you, to the best of my
belief, Hamilton is all right. He was
sleeping some thirty yards off me when I
saw him last. It is merely that I have not
seen him this morning ; and if I said what
you impute to me it was under provocation.
He had done that which had made me
very an^rv."

"You have no cause to be alarmed,
Maude," said Sir Jasper. " Fred's not far
off, unless, by-the-way, he started early this
morning for Naples. By-the-way, Glanfield,
who did you settle should go there ? "

No, uncle," cried Maude, "Fred is not
gone to Naples. Mr. Wheldrake told me
last night that he was to start for Naples at
daybreak."

VOL. II. p

Wheldrake," exclaimed Sir Jasper,
what has he got to do with it ? How
came he here ? You are raving, child.

Yes, Mr. Wheldrake is, or rather was,
here," said Glanfield, quietly. " Your
daughter is not raving, Sir Jasper. Whelm
is a prisoner like ourselves ; at the
Count's bidding we cast lots as to who
should be set free to negotiate about the
ransom. It fell upon Cyril, and I trust he
is now half-way to Naples."

I put myself in your hands, Glanfield,
and I suppose you know best; but for a
delicate mission, which must involve the
handling of a very large sum of money, I
should have hardly selected for my envoy a
convicted card sharper. ' '

"Oh, father, father!" cried Maude,
"Cyril is innocent, I swear."

I'll pledge my life for Cyril's loyalty on
this occasion," said Glanfield, sternly ; "as
I would for his innocence that night at
Wrottsley."

It only shows, Mr. Glanfield, that you
are very much readier to pledge your life
than can be deemed prudent."

Dear me!" exclaimed Mrs. Eullerton,
te here comes that dreadful Count. Only to
think that such a nice gentlemanly, agreeable
man could be a bandit."

Very gentlemanly," growled Sir Jasper.
"We gave him the best we had at Wrottsley,
and he strips us to the last feather the first
time he has the opportunity. When that
precious scoundrel does meet his deserts I'll
come a considerable distance " — and here
Sir Jasper's speech was cut short by the
approach of the Count.

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen,"
said Patroceni, with a low bow. " Mrs.
Eullerton, Miss Eversley, I trust you slept
well, though the accommodation, I regret,
is rougher than you are accustomed to.
Mr. Glanfield, a night in the open is nothing
for a sportsman like yourself. Sir Jasper,
they are preparing your breakfast. If our
p2

mountain air has done its duty, I know you
will do your duty. Try it."

As he finished, Patroceni's dark eyes
roved inquiringly over the party.

Thank you, Count," said Mrs. Fullerton,
haughtily. " We slept very well, but
we hardly dreamt that the hospitality of
Wrottsley would be repaid in this fashion."

Ah, life is full of changes, my dear
madam. Every turn of the kaleidoscope
presents a fresh and unexpected combination;
but," continued Patroceni, "I don't
see the Captain. I trust my dear friend
Hamilton is not unwell."

We have none of us seen him this
morning," said Glanfield, drily.

Curious ! " remarked the Count. " Here,
one of you," he cried, raising his voice,
and addressing a knot of two or three
brigands, who were busy cooking by the
edge of the plateau, " send Signor Sarini
to me quickly."

There was a silence of some minutes.

Imperturbable as the Count's manner invariably
was, still there was that in it now
which gave the impression that something
had gone wrong. Metaphorically speaking,
there was thunder in the air, and all looked
anxiously as to what this summons of
Sarini might portend.

It was evident that Patroceni was quite
as unprepared for Hamilton's disappearance
as the rest of them. The silence was
broken at last by the appearance of Sarini,
who limped slowly forward with the assistance
of a stick. They could see that the
Count expressed surprise at his lieutenant's
crippled condition ; and then a conversation
passed between them so rapidly that Mrs.
Pullerton, the only one of the party with
a fair knowledge of Italian, was unable
to follow it. At its termination, with a
low bow, the Count begged they would
excuse him as he had a little matter of
business to attend to, and immediately
strode across the plateau in the direction

of the tents, which it must be borne in
mind were pitched upon the opposite side
to that on which the hut stood. He
plunged into the first he came to. He
reappeared at the end of three or four
minutes and was followed by Cyril Whelm
the man they all thought half w r ay
to Naples.

Wheldrake ! " burst from Glanfield's
lips ; " something, I fear, has gone very
much awry," he muttered, "or else he
wouldn't be here."

Patroceni, followed by Wheldrake, once
'more rapidly approached them, and it was
easy to see in the Count's eyes that expression
which Pietro had dwelt upon.
They gleamed with the angry light of an
aroused tiger ; the usual suave, half-mocking
tones were changed into those
of bitter sarcasm as he said —

Sir Jasper, you would, I presume, insist
upon being master in your ow r n house. If
a guest thought proper to overturn all your

arrangements to gratify a whim of his own,
you would probably resent it. If you held
his life at your disposal, it is possible you
might take steps to prevent his ever interfering
with plans of yours for the future.
These gentlemen " — and here Patroceni
indicated Glanfield and Wheldrake — " have
thought proper to meddle in my affairs.
I am not to blame if their lives pay the
penalty for that interference."

It is all my doing. Glanfield had
nothing to do with it, knew nothing of it.
Mine the fault, be mine the expiation,"
said Wheldrake.

Maude stood with tear-gemmed eyes and
quivering mouth listening to this bitter
altercation ; and even Mrs. Pullerton's
laughing face, when she heard Patroceni's
bitter menace of retribution, became overcast.


Gallant and generous, Mr. Wheldrake,
to the last," rejoined the Count, in clear,
cutting tones. "Like many a better man,

you will perchance die for interfering with
things above your comprehension. You
have thought proper to change places with
Captain Haninierton. You have trusted the
lives of those you hold most dear to you,
let alone your own, to a scoundrel in
whose hands I decline to place mine or my
comrades. Are you really so credulous
as to suppose that the lot-drawing was a
mere matter of chance ? Did you never
hear of forcing a card ? and do you suppose
that forcing a straw is a bit more
difficult? This fool, Sir Jasper, for some
inscrutable reason, has sent Captain Hani-
merton in his place, and launched two
lives into eternity thereby. Do you suppose
a man with a price upon his head is going
to trust it to such an unscrupulous robber
as we all know Hamilton to be ? " he
continued, turning to Wheldrake. "You
know how he ruined you at Wrottsley ; it
was but the other night I showed you the
trick of it."

Here his speech was interrupted by a
slight gurgle, or hysterical sob, and Whelm
was barely in time to catch Maude
as she fell back insensible. Mrs. Pullerton
also was in much too tearful a state to
render assistance to her niece. That lady
had grasped two facts during Patroceni's
harangue, to wit, that she loved Glanfield
dearly and that his life was in danger.

"You surely, Count Patroceni, would
never dare "

Dare ! Let Sir Jasper ask the records
of the police-bureau what Patroceni has
dared. Tears!" he continued, scornfully,
as the Baronet pointed in mute appeal to
his weeping sister and senseless daughter.
Tears ! Ah, I have seen too many in
my time to be much moved by them now.
"Women must weep in time of trouble : todo
that and scrape lint is their destiny.
Listen, Mr. Wheldrake, I was doing my
best for you. Now, let the precious blackguard
you have loosed upon me threaten

my safety, and I retreat into the mountains
at once. I shall not further cumber myself
with useless prisoners in a retreat, I shall
leave two corpses behind me, and two
women to wail over them. Sir Jasper will
be worth carrying along with me."

Coward ! " said Wheldrake, " kill us if
you will, but don't terrify our women
beforehand."

Let your trusted messenger but play
the role he has done ever since I have
known him, and you may consider yourselves
doomed men," replied the Count,
with a bitter sneer. "Patroceni has ever
kept his word for good or for evil. His
time has not yet come, and those who cross
him are sure to make a bad end of it."

•' We can die if needs must, Count,"
replied Glanfield; "most Englishmen can.
But there is many a turn up in life, as you
told us just now, and I've seen too many
cracks whose victory was prod aimed at the
half distance die away to nothing before

they reached the winning-post to funk yet.
The cards haven't run very much in your
favour through life, or you wouldn't have to
take to the highways in the autumn of it."

The Count's eyes flashed for a minute
and his lips quivered with suppressed wrath
at Glanfield's sneer.

"Good, Mr. Glanfield; ' suppress a possible
enemy ' is a maxim men like myself
should never forget. Any arrangements
you or Mr. Wheldrake may wish to make
for your lawyer's consideration you'd best
attend to. Captain Hamilton is a liar
and a traitor; and, if our Eves are menaced,
depend upon it you are on the threshold of
the grave ! " And after a satirical sweep
of his sombrero to his prisoners the Count
strode leisurely back to his own tent.

CHAPTER XIV.

A STORMY OUTLOOK.

When Maude came to herself she was lying
on her bed in the hut, with her aunt in a
very tearful state hanging over her. Patron
hitter speech had been a revelation to
her. In one moment it had flashed across
her mind what she had done. Stung by
Wheldrake's manner, she sternly repressed
all display of affection towards him. In her
anxiety to rescue her cousin from danger
she had never counted at what cost it might
be to Cyril. She saw it all now. To do her
bidding, to ensure Hamilton's safety, he

had sacrificed himself. It wanted no great
judge of physiognomy to read the Count's
face. As Pietro said, his Excellency never
gave way to wild outbreaks of wrath, but
there was that intense concentration of
passion that is much more dangerous than
the most volcanic explosion. The iron that
gleams so redly is after all not at the extreme
heat of that which is white. There
was a fierce vindictiveness in Patroceni's
rage more to be dreaded than any wild outburst
of storm and expletive, and Maude
recognised this at once. That cool, cutting,
merciless harangue had much more earnestness
of purpose in it than the wild ravings
of a man beside himself with passion. She
had marked before she fainted the cruel
eyes and unforgiving mouth ; and, though
ignorant of Patroceni's past history, she felt
sure that he would be pitiless to those who
crossed him. "What had she done ? She
had perchance saved the life of her cousin,
but to do that she had sacrificed the lives of

her father, her lover, and Glanfield. And,
after all, was her cousin really in danger ?
She knew that he had been guilty, from
the Count's testimony, of much duplicity;
had she been also his mere dupe in this
matter ? And then the girl in her misery
turned her face to the wall and bitterly
reproached herself for the part she had
played.

Tears over the dropped stitches, weeping
over our blunders, rueful retrospection of
neglected opportunities, are the lot of most
of us, but just now Maude felt overwhelmed
with an attack of this nature.

Mv dear child," exclaimed Mrs. Puller-ton,
in a voice that trembled not a little,
my dear child, pray, pray try and control
yourself. I know you love Cyril — I know
you will never cease to love him— and to
find that his life is in such imminent danger
is of course enough to prostrate you ; but,"
said the widow, " do not think you are the
only sufferer. I fear he has never said anything

I ought not to tell you, it is very
foolish, but — but I am very unhappy about
Mr. Glanfield— " and here Mrs. Pullerton
broke down, began to whisper, and finally
buried her head in the pillow beside her
niece. But Mrs. Fullerton's situation was
nothing to Maude's. If she had just discovered
that Jim Glanfield was master of
her heart, still she, at all events, had
nothing to do with the situation in which
he was placed. "With Maude the case was
different. Eut for her ill-timed interference
Cyril Wheldrake would have been by this
time a free man in the streets of Naples,
and, hap what might to the rest of them,
would have been out of reach of Patroceni's
homicidal instincts. " Die ! yes," thought
the girl. " I suppose that will be the fate
of all of us. The man's a mere human
tiger, purring like a cat in the civilisation
of Wrottsley, and exhibiting all the ferocity
of his nature when we meet him in his home
on the mountain-side. Yes," continued

Maude in all the agony of her self-communion,
" I have always been told these
Italians have all the relentless ferocity of
the 'cruel E-oman race.' "

Patroceni had threatened Wheldrake and
Glanfield with death. Ah ! well ; and the
girl gave a positive sigh of relief as she
murmured to herself, " If he once commences
bloodshed he is not likely to spare
the rest of us. They may commence with
taking the lives of one or two, but I fancy
in extremity these brigands invariably ensure
strict silence on the part of all the
prisoners within their hands. It is very
hard to die in one's twenty-second year,
but — '' and here a half-smile flickered over
her tear-stained visage — " it will not be so
hard when he is gone. I don't think, if
they take his life, that I shall care very
much what becomes of mine. Don't talk tome,
aunt," she continued aloud. u I know
what I have done only too well. Fred has
behaved shamefully. He fooled me into

persuading Cyril Wheldrake to do what I
never dreamt of : he induced me to believe
that Fred's life was in danger. Thinking
Cyril had influence with Count Patroceni I
implored him to exercise that influence on
Fred's behalf. Oh ! aunt," sobbed the girl,
I little thought how my request was to be
complied with. I was cruel to him, brutal
to him. I was not sure he cared any longer
about me, and I was too anxious to show
that I no longer cared anything about
him. He promised me that if he could save
Fred he would. He has done it, done it !
given up his life at my bidding to save Fred
Hamilton's. I am glad of course of my
cousin's safety, but I love Cyril's little
finger better than him."

Don't fret over that, darling," said Mrs.
Fuller ton. " I cannot think that will make
much difference. The Count in his first
wrath may threaten to shoot us all ; it's
very bad taste on his part; calculated to
upset the nerves of us poor weak women,

VOL. II. Q

and not altogether, perhaps, conducive to
strengthen those of the men ; but only
think of it dispassionately, and one must
feel sure that he will not do so. His object,
of course, must be to obtain this enormous
sum of money he has demanded for our
ransom. Say what you will, interference
with an Englishman in any part of Europe
is rather an awkward business. To summarily
dispose of any of us would destroy
his negociations for our delivery for one
thing, and must bring — dilatory though
they be — the Neapolitan police about his
ears for another. Take heart, Maude, and
don't reproach yourself. Mr. Wheldrake
is more to blame than you are. I will
admit that I am prophesying after the
event, but I do feel quite sure of this : that
comply with Count Patroceni's terms we
must, and also acquiesce in his managing
the arrangement in his own way ; " and
then the two women kissed and sobbed and
went to sleep in each others' arms. In the

tent on the other side of the plateau a conversation
of a somewhat similar sort was
being carried on.

Well, young man," said Jim Glanfield,
as he seated himself on the bed and lit a
cigar. " You have been and gone and done
it ! Here's Patroceni been laying himself
out for a nice little game of thimble-rig,
and here you go and kick the table over.
What in Heaven's name induced you to
change places with Hamilton last night ?"

You said yourself you wouldn't take a
hundred to one about his life, and Maude
appealed to me to save him. I thought she
loved him," replied Wheldrake.

And you think so still ? " said Glanfield,
putting his glass in his eye.

Yes, I do," replied Wheldrake, doggedly.


By Jove, you are a fool," said Glanfield.

What the deuce do you want ? Here's a

young woman drops clean off her feet the

minute she hears you're to be shot at 



break or thereabouts. I can only say this :
when they take to swooning about me on
hearing I am in difficulties I may be conceited,
but I shall put them down 'spoons. 5 "

I don't know what to think. I did it
for the best."

You did a very fine, generous thing,
Cyril. You have risked your life to save
that of a scoundrel who conspired against
you in the most dastardly way I ever heard
of. It was like you ; it was what most
men who know Cyril "Wheldrake well could
imagine he would do. But, you dear old
duffer, you've done it all under a misconception.
You've done this for Maude's sake;
jeopardised the life she values above all
others to save one whom she only regards
as a cousin she's been brought up with."

Wheldrake said nothing for a minute or
two, then he gripped Glanfield's hand hard
and said in a low voice, " It was worth
risking one's life to know this. Are you
quite sure of it, Jim ? "

Quite. I have the evidence of my own
eyes for one thing, and Mrs. Pullerton's opinion
on the subject for another. Now, old man, we
must look at the situation. Our friend the
Count is most unmistakeably riled at your
1 ingenious change of ambassadors ; still if
Hamilton acts fairly by us I don't suppose
we are in much danger, but Patroceni
had evidently no faith in his quondam ally,
and, judging from what we know, upon my
soul he's right."

T can't believe Hamilton would play
us false. We have more to fear from rash
meddling on the part of the police."

Perhaps so," rejoined Glanfield. " Still
I wish you had kept our interests in your
hands. I have an idea it would have been
better for some of us."

Mr. Glanfield's idea was destined to turnout
by no means erroneous.

Chapter XV.

LEROUX HAS A GLASS WITH GIOVANNI.

When Pietro told Hamilton that they
were moving Giovanni into Naples for better
nursing and food than they could obtain for
him in the mountains he said what he
honestly believed to be the truth. Giovanni,
brooding over his wrongs, at last culminated
in one intense desire, namely, to be revenged
upon Matteo at all hazards. One of those
fierce, sullen, vindictive natures, that,
amongst the Latin races, so often lends
itself to violent and sudden outbreaks, the
narrow brain warped and intensified by

habitual intemperance, — a dangerous man
this to have craving for your life, and reckless
of the consequences of taking it. It
has been well said that the man, regardless
of his own, ever carries that other man's
life in his hand who has fallen under his
displeasure. History has proved it again
and again. Henry of Navarre, the first
Duke of Buckingham, and scores of others,
fell easily under the hand of the assassin,
taking no heed of himself.

Did Matteo but know it, there was never
a life in the city of Naples in more extreme
danger than his. Had he gauged the savage
temperament of the besotted ruffian who so
often drowned his reason at the expense of
his cellars he would have hesitated to testify
against him. It was true Patroceni stood
no trifling amongst his followers, but for all
that Giovanni's lapse from the paths of
sobriety had entailed no evil consequences.
Matteo, in the first flush of his righteous
wrath, had perhaps made the very worst of

his old comrade's case in reporting it to his
Excellency. But that Giovanni had survived
the pitiless punishment meted out to
him was sheer accident. The thickness of
their sculls has saved many men's lives
before now, as the density of their understandings
has advanced many men in their
way through life. A strong sense of humour,
and a little cleverness, has marred many a
promising career; while steady, decorous
dulness has slowly brought its fortunate
possessor to the upper rung of the ladder.

Giovanni, indeed, had thoroughly blinded
his old friend Pietro. The latter had had
his misgivings when Giovanni had uttered
his threats and imprecations against the
cause of his terrible punishment. But he
showed all the cunning of these slow-witted
men in attaining the object he had set his
heart on. For some days he craved querulously
for little luxuries that were beyond
Pietro' s compass to obtain for him up therein
the mountains, and under this pretext

Giovanni had attained the present goal of
his desires, to wit, Naples. He was like the
wounded cheetah, an animal that has no
idea of abandoning the game because you
score the first hit. " Wound the cheetah,"
say the Indian shearers, " and you've got
to see it out. If you don't kill him he
means killing you." And it might perhaps
have been better for Matteo if the Count had
pulled the trigger of his pistol that morning
instead of dealing that merciless blow with
the butt of it.

Matteo, at the pavilion in the Villa del
Heal, was attending to his duties as host,
all eyes and ears as regarding any movement
of the police; that he knew was his
clear duty — whom his Excellency might
send in to negotiate for the ransom, he was
as yet in ignorance about ; possibly, indeed,
they might not think it necessary to inform
him whom the envoy was, and quick-witted
Matteo knew well that the better their
envoy was doing his work the less likely he

was to hear of his presence in Naples. Now
Matteo knew from experience that when
the police got news of brigandage, and
meant taking action, their preparations were
usually the talk of the city. After Naples
had rung for some two or three days with
rumours of what they would do, and where
the outlaws were encamped, they usually
departed with much parade to pounce upon
their prey, only to discover that, thanks to
timely warning, the brigands had taken
their departure some hours beforehand ;
but on this occasion Matteo had got to
reckon with an officer trained in the school
of the Rue Jerusalem, instead of one of the
old Neapolitan police-agents, to whom he
was habituated. Leroux had not been
brought up in a babbling school — it was
more his custom to keep his left hand in
ignorance of what his right was about.
One of his axioms was that an agent of
police should be all eyes and ears, but could
hardly be too reticent in the use of his

tongue ; that his business was not to talk
further than was necessary to encourage
other people to do so, and that he ought to
accustom himself to make mental notes of
the most trivial occurrences that came
under his notice. They might be of no
consequence, but it was surprising how very
slight a circumstance sometimes furnishes
the clue to a great crime.

When Leroux got back to the bureau his
first act was to hunt up Patroceni's record
plenty to be read about his Excellency in
the police archives, his biography therein
extending over thirty years, commencing
with political offending when he was a boy
of seventeen, and extending to the audacious
brigandage of his latter days. Two or
three things struck Leroux : firstly, that
there had been very much less pains taken
to bring the Count to justice for robbery
than had been taken to punish him for his
political opinions. Tampering with the
purses and lives of the people was evidently

matter of small importance in comparison
with doubting the divine right of kings to
have monopoly of that business, as well as
the destinies of nations. Next, how well
Patroceni was served, and what a very army
of spies and devoted followers he must have.
Such wondrous audacity and evasion of
consequences was only possible by the most,
accurate information as to the movements
of his enemies. He recognised as he read
that this man had ?ron nerves, great
subtlety, and boundless resources ; no common
malefactor this, and one very difficult
to encompass within the meshes of the law.
It was clear that Patroceni in the kingdom
of Naples and the Two Similes had been
famous as Schinderhannes, the robber of
the Rhine. Leroux's pulses bounded. This
was to hunt high game ! Count Patroceni
was a man of higher mark than it had ever
fallen to his lot to run down as yet. Ashe
pored over the records Leroux was
strengthened in his conclusion that it was

no light task which lay before him. The
capture of a man like the Count was
attended by great difficulty and no little
danger. Once let Leroux be suspected of
such a design and he knew that sharp eyes
would watch his every movement. He felt
that his adversary's system of espionage
was superior to his own, and moreover
that his men were probably pretty well
known to the Count, while those to whom
the brigand chief looked for information
were perfectly unknown to him, Leroux.
Not the man either, Patroceni, to stand the
least upon trifles. The police-agent knew
that — let it once be known that he devoted
himself to hunting down the Count — he
would be carrying his life in his hand. Todo
him justice that thought shot across his
mind and was gone, and he was far more
afraid of being outwitted than of any mere
personal consequences. He sat for sometime
after he had finished reading, pondering
how to begin the campaign. Any open

advance on the bandits was, of course, quite
out of the question. Leroux thoroughly
understood that would lead simply to the
death of their prisoners, but by no means
to the apprehension of the bandits themselves.
What he aimed at was only to be
accomplished, he thought, by getting into
communication with one of the band; it
would be hazardous, very hazardous. When
you begin to deal in treachery you are apt
to cut your fingers. Leroux's experience
told him that in a gang of scoundrels someone
or two were always to be suborned.
But then again traitors of this description
are not very trustworthy, and it is quite
possible they might accept his bribes, and
yet betray him to their chief. Nevertheless,
Leroux had quite made up his mind that
there was nothing to be done until he on
his side could open communications of
some sort with some of Patroceni's people,
and how that was to be brought about heat
present had no conception, unless to

attempt it through Captain Hamilton ; as
yet Leroux could think of no other channel.
Still, the police-agent did not despair on
that account. It might take some few days,
or it might take considerably longer, but he
had no doubt that before long he should
get hold of somebody connected with the
brigands. It would be something even to
know their number, exact position, &c, but
Leroux looked to doing a good deal more
than that.

Count Patroceni was doubtless possessed
of wonderful information, and was well
served; and among his many instruments
there would surely be one with whom gold
ranked higher than fealty to his master ;
and Leroux felt that, to bring such a man
as Patroceni to justice, Government would
be liberal in the matter of secret-service
money. Having thus made up his mind,
Leroux put on his hat and went out fora
stroll to sharpen his wits, while he deliberated

in what direction he was most likely
to come across some emissary of the Count's.
Smoking his cigar he wandered in the direction
of the Villa del Heal, and seating himself
on a bench gazed idly out over the bay.
He had not been there long when a
poorly-dressed man hobbled up, and with
an uncouth salutation sat down by his side.
Leroux looked at the new comer, whose
appearance was by no means prepossessing.
His beard was of many days' growth, and
his head was swathed in coloured handkerchiefs
beneath his sombrero. The glittering
eyes and haggard face betokened an
attack of severe illness, as yet barely cast
aside, w T whilst the man s tottering gait and
rather shaky baud were strong proofs of
the severity of the seizure, be it what it
might. Leroux took stock of his neighbour
almost instinctively. It had become second
nature with him to note keenly the personal
appearance of any one he might be thrown

across. He certainly had no particular object
in doing so in the present instance, and yet
chance was throwing into his hands the
very instrument he was so anxious to come
across.

After reckoning up his neighbour for
some minutes, Leroux at last said, " You
seem to have had a bad time of it lately,
my friend. What's been the matter ? For,
unless your looks belie you, you've been
on the borders of the other world."

Yes," replied Giovanni, for it was he ;
"I've had a bad accident, which nearly
killed me. I was pitched out of a cart on
my head; but I am all right now, only
weak, so weak. I only want fresh air and
wine to restore my strength. Ah ! wine
that puts heart into a man."

Leroux gazed at him attentively. He
wondered whether wine had had anything
to do with that little accident.

You live near Naples, I suppose?" he
said at length.

VOL. II. R

Yes ; I've a small farm on the road to
Amain."

The police-agent pricked up his ears —
a small farmer on the road to Amain would
he likely, he thought, to have a considerable
knowledge of the brigands. He might
not choose to admit any such knowledge,
but from all he had read up that afternoon
about the Count he felt pretty sure that all
the country-side were more or less in collusion
and communication with Patroceni.
It was that which made the great difficulty
of dealing with them. All these people
were doubtless devoted to him, and would
furnish him with either provisions or information
to the extent of their ability.
Decidedly this interesting stranger, with
the bandaged head and aspect of general
shabbiness, was worth cultivating. Hawk-eyed
Leroux had already penetrated the
weakness of his new acquaintance.

You are right," he replied. " A cup
of wine will do us both good. Come

across to the pavilion there ; the fellow
sells good wine, and you shall help me
through with a bottle of his best."

Ah, signor," rejoined Giovanni, " I
shall be only too happy. You will excuse
my wrapping myself well up ; the sea-air
strikes a little chilly to an invalid," and,
suiting the action to the word, Giovanni
muffled his cloak closely about him. It
was not exactly that he feared Matteo
would recognise him, but he thought upon
the whole it was preferable he should not.
He was not strong enough as yet to settle
with Matteo, but he brooded over the day
when that settlement should come with
an intensity that boded no stood to the
innkeeper.

It was curious, but Leroux led the way
to the identical table at which, under the
influence of the wine, Giovanni had made
those compromising revelations to Whelm
which, reported to Patroceni, had
brought down the Count's summary ver
2

glance. In answer to Leroux's call, Matteo
speedily appeared. He eyed the new comer
curiously as he took the police-agent's
order. It was not that there was anything
in their appearance to arouse his
suspicion, but he was naturally observant
and watchful of strangers. He was one
of the Count's most valuable auxiliaries.
The man was born for a spy — lynx-eyed
and crafty as a fox. He did not apparently
take much notice of Giovanni, but for all
that he had recognised him at a glance. It
was more important, Matteo thought, to
discover who was his companion. The innkeeper
practised all the usual tricks of his
trade to obtain a good look at Leroux. He
flitted about dusting the table, sang the
praises of his wine, desired to know of
which vintage he should bring the signora
bottle, but the police-agent completely
baffled his scrutiny. Matteo failed either
to recognise his features or his voice. Now,
the innkeeper had made it his business,

amongst other things, to know all the
Neapolitan police by sight, but with the
detective officers this was not so easy. They
were rarely to be seen about, and it is more
than doubtful whether he would have recognised
Leroux even if he had not been disguised.
As for Giovanni, if he had any
sinister design, Matteo thought it would
be best come at by taking no notice of him.
Having brought the wine, he retired with
a resolve to keep both his ears and eyes
open. Leroux filled their glasses, and then
remarked, carelessly,

u Farming, I should think, is poor work
in that wild country you speak of?"

Ah, signor, I only cultivate a small
piece of ground, and graze a few goats on
the hill-side."

I wonder," said Leroux, in his assumed
character of the old clerk, " that you are not
afraid to live out there. All the city is
talking of the terrible bandits that infest
the road."

What have such as I to fear from
bandits, signor? It is only those with
full pockets that are in any danger from
them."

"This Count Patroceni seems a man of
great notoriety in that way. I am told he
has baffled the police for years. You have
heard of him, doubtless ? "

I know nothing whatever about his

Ex , about Count Patroceni, I mean,"

replied Giovanni, brusquely. And the bandit
tossed off his glass, rose to his feet, and
wished Leroux a blunt good morning.

Well, I trust we shall meet again," said
Leroux, quietly; " I often come and sit herein
the mornings, but you are still weak from
your accident, and are quite right not to
overture yourself. Take just one more glass
of wine to see you on your way home — it
won't hurt you."

Por a moment the bandit paused irresolute,
then stretching out his hand he took the
glass Leroux proffered him, tossed it hastily

off, and, muttering gruffly something to the
effect that they should no doubt meet again,
abruptly left the gardens. Leroux sat silent
for some few minutes after his guest had
left him, and a slight smile of satisfaction
played about his mouth. ei That fellow
knows Patroceni," he muttered to himself,
and the chances are is in constant communication
with him and his brother scoundrels.
A shy fish, and wants careful handling,
no doubt ; but if I mistake not I've already
found a bait that he can't resist — a man
seldom snatches at a glass of wine as he did
at that last unless it is his besetting weakness,"
and with this Leroux made his way
leisurely out of the gardens. As he disappeared
Matteo came out of the house and
proceeded to clear the table his guests had
just left.

u A nice respectable old gentleman," he
mused. "Now what on earth could have
induced him to bestow a bottle of wine on
such a rough customer as Giovanni. And,"

he continued, as lie raised the bottle, " wonder
of wonders ! Giovanni has left a bottle
unfinished. I don't understand it. I
couldn't catch their conversation, but that
old gentleman must have said something
that rather disconcerted Giovanni, or he
would never have left a glass or two in the
flask."

And Matteo retired into the house to
ponder over this phenomenon.

CHAPTER XVI.

CHISEL HEARS OP HIS MASTER.

As Leroux walked back from the Villa del
Realee an idea suddenly flashed across his
mind, which he determined to at once put
into execution. He would be present at the
next meeting Hamilton had with Toldii
and Kratz, and would insist that Chisel and
Hamilton should thereat be brought together.
One point he thought was decidedly
to be cleared up by their meeting, namely,
whether Wheldrake was in Patroceni's hands
or not. Leroux had not been steadily cross-examining
Chisel all these days for nothing.
He had come pretty well to the conclusion

now that lie had no hand in his master's disappearance,
but that he really was attached
to him, and anxious about his fate. hamilton
could settle the question of his
being in Patroceni's hands, and, reticent
though the Captain most prudently was
with regard to the Count, his merry men,
and their whereabouts, he could hardly have
any objection to saying whether Wheldrake
was really their prisoner. Messrs. Toldii
and Kratz made not the slightest demur
about complying with Leroux's wishes ; the
police might be subject to derision by the
men who had taken to the mountains, but
they were held in very considerable awe in
Naples itself; and the bankers at once sent
a line to Captain Hamilton expressing
their desire to see him next morning:. At
the same time another missive informed
Chisel that he would obtain positive information
of his master's whereabouts if he could
call upon Toldii and Kratz at ten o'clock
the next day. At a quarter before the appointed

hour Leroux was quietly announced
under his adopted appellation of Herr Stein.
The police-agent rapidly explained the
action of his little drama.

I am, as before, signors, Herr Stein, the
eminent financier. I have come to confer
with yourselves and Captain Hamilton
about the means necessary for this ransom.
All the details are your affair. This Signor
Chisel is the faithful, trustworthy servant,
who, having failed to hear anything concerning
his master from either the police or the
English Consul, has now come in despair to
see if you can give him any tidings of the
missing gentleman. He would at once
recognise Captain Hamilton, and that is
all we have to do with it. Captain hamilton
can certainly enlighten his mind on
the one point as to whether Signor Whelm
is a captive in the mountains. For
my part, I should think he probably is. As
an agent of police, I want evidence on the
subject. I don't want to overstep my

province, signers ; but if it is not asking too
much I may conclude you will find the
ransom for these English ? "

Yes," cried Kratz, bitterly, " the money
will be forthcoming — not too soon, not quite
so soon as they think, though. A sum like
this takes a deal of raising. Ah ! my God,
yes, and a deal of making. Ah ! these
brigands, they leave you lifeless or penniless
in a few days. These English they are
about to be shorn as I was before them.
And do they think, after having lost their
wool, that all is over. No, no ; a big sum
like that must be borrowed, and the usurers,
too, must have their fling. And they shave,
aye, shave very close. The Englishmen will
be lean, very lean, by the time they see their
fog-girt island again''

You must not mind him," said Toldii ina
low tone. " This incident has made him
a little wild; it recalls too painfully the
terrible fleecing he himself received from
this Count Patroceni."

The dear old gentleman seems to have
profited by the lesson' thought Leroux*
He speaks as if his ideas of interest would
be pretty extensive, and as if as far as possible
he meant to stand in with brigandage
in future."

The ransom is a big sum," continued
Signor Toldii. " and to raise an amount like
that at short notice is always of course expensive.
Given six weeks, or two or three
months, and a man like Sir Jasper Eversley
could always borrow it at a most moderate
interest ; but when it is a case of a few days
you must come to the professional usurer.
It's his business to find money at short
notice, and it is equally part of his business
to exact very high interest for doing so."

Ten thousand thanks, Signor Toldii,"
interrupted Leroux, " but I don't want to
intrude upon all these particulars. I only
want the main fact that this money will be
found for Sir Jasper. If there was no
prospect of it we should feel it incumbent

to do the best for him we could, you
know."

Pray, pray, Signor Leroux, do not interfere.
Captain Hamilton assures me that
the slightest movement on the part of the
police will probably cost three or four
lives."

I am quite aware of that, and you may
rely upon my discretion," replied the police-agent
; " but, unless I'm interfered with by
my superiors, I mean to have it out with
Count Patroceni as soon as his prisoners are
out of his hands. It was at one of our
stations in Algeria that they had to cope
with this sort of thing. They rigidly
exacted two lives for one, and the brigands
very soon got tired of the game. As long
as it is attended with immunity it is too
profitable a calling to abandon. But all
malefactors are wondrous chary of risking
their own lives."

Here Leroux's lecture on the best method
of dealing with the criminal classes was

interrupted by the entrance of a clerk, who
ushered Chisel into the room.

Pray be seated," said Signor Toldii, in
fairly good English. " You're anxiously
seeking news of your master, I'm told.
We're expecting a gentleman every moment
who we've some reason to think will be able
to furnish you with some information about
him."

Thank you, sir," replied Chisel, and
then a silence fell upon the whole party.

Signor Toldii had nothing to say, for one
thing, and was not given to speaking
English except of necessity. As for Le-rout,
he was habitually taciturn, and was
curiously awaiting the result of the little
drama he had prepared. A few minutes
during which the ticking of the clock over
the bankers' table became painfully audible,
and then the door opened, and Hammer ton
appeared. Leroux had no doubt now about
the truth of Chisel's statement ; for the
latter sprang from his chair, with more

astonishment than any one had ever yet
seen in the face of the self-possessed valet,
and exclaimed —

Captain Hammer ton ! "

But the Captain seemed by no means
pleased at the recognition. He turned
sharply towards Signor Toldii, and said
angrily—

l * I told you yesterday that it was of the
greatest consequence my mission in Naples
should be kept as quiet as possible ; I
have carefully avoided showing myself about
the place, and yet you allow me to meet
a man who, of course, knows me well."

He is very anxious to get news of his
master," replied the banker, gently. He
felt conscious that Chisel's being there was
rather a breach of faith; but he could not
tell Hamilton that it was so arranged at
the dictates of the Neapolitan police. hamilton
turned quickly to Chisel and said —

"Listen. You're a sharp fellow, and, I
believe, attached to your master. He is

safe and sound in the hands of the brigands,
along with Sir Jasper and his daughter,
Mrs. Eullerton, Mr. Glanfield, and your old
friend Jackson. They have sent me hereto
obtain money for their release ; but, bear
in mind, any babbling on your part may
set the police in motion, and the result of
that will most likely be that your master,
with the others, will be shot right off.
Forget you've even seen me, and, above
everything, not a word to the police."

Chisel was aghast. He had pestered the
police for over a week to discover some
traces of Wheldrake. He had all the
natural disposition of the ordinary Englishman
to appeal to those functionaries immediately
he found himself in difficulties ; and*
though he had formed a rather contemptuous
estimate of the abilities of the Italian
gendarmerie, still it was a revelation to him
that their interference could lead to such
disastrous results as Hamilton pictured.

I can hold my tongue, Captain Hammer-vol.

II. s

ton, and, as I've no doubt you know what is
best to be done, I will from this hour ; but
it is only fair to tell you, sir, that I've been
to them several times to see if they had any
tidings of my master."

You had no idea then," said hamilton,
quickly, " where he was ? "

"Well, sir, I heard, as all Naples has
heard, that your party had fallen into the
hands of the brigands, and I did suggest to
the police that my master might have had
the same mischance, but they rather pooh-poohed
me, and seemed to think that very
unlikely."

Well, you know the rights of things
now. You had better keep quite quiet at
the hotel till your master rejoins you. That
will do for the present."

I trust I shall see my master soon," said
Chisel. " Good bye, sir, and many thanks
for the information you have given me.
You may thoroughly depend on my not
talking."

Yes, I think I can trust you. Goodbye
; keep yourself to yourself. As soon as
there is more news to be told about your
master you will hear it from Signor Toldii.
And now, gentlemen," continued hamilton,
as the door closed upon the valet, il I
presume that you and Herr Stein have come
to terms about the price of this money ? "

Ah ! my good sir," replied Leroux,
taking up the word without waiting for the
banker, "the signors know that I have
strained every nerve in my power to save
this disgrace to our nation."

"Ah! never mind that," interposed hamilton,
roughly ; " we don't mean to have
such extras in the bill as Italian flag trailing
in the dust, salvation of national honour,
and all that sort of thing. This means an
extra ten per cent, which we can't afford
and don't want. I want to know right out
when you can find me this money. ' He
who gives quickly gives twice,' as the good
books say, and he who gives quickly charges
s 2

a good deal for doing it my experience tells
me ; briefly, how much have we to pay for
the use of this money for ninety days ? "

u Ah, captain, I think I had best leave
you to discuss little details like this with
mine excellent friends, Signors Toldii and
Kratz. My views and theirs quite coincide ;
we are all anxious to extricate an English
nobleman like Sir Jasper from his unpleasant
position, and to save such a blot upon the
name of the great Italian nation as this
would be. It will cost money, but ah !
money is of no consequence to an English
milord like Sir Jasper. Gentlemen, I do
myself the honour to bid you a very good
morning. I am sure, Captain Hamilton,
you will find all arrangements made to
your entire satisfaction," and so saying
Leroux bowed himself out of the room,
leaving Signor Toldii perfectly astounded at
his stupendous assurance.

CHAPTER XVII.

A CAMP REVEL.

Residence in the Count's retreat was not
so monotonous to his enforced guests as
might he supposed. Lovers are generally
content when they can spend the hulk of
the day in each other's society, and Whelm
thought himself amply repaid for his
sacrifice hy the knowledge that Maude still
loved him, and had never ceased to love
him. Mrs. Pullerton was devoting her
entire energies to the subjugation of Jim
Glanfield ; and a woman with a promising
flirtation in hand is always tolerably contented
with surrounding circumstances. As

for Sir Jasper, if ever he felt time hang
a little on his hands, he had nothing todo
but to express his disbelief in Whelm
innocence, and then he had both
the women about his ears. They were not
only firmly convinced that he had never
been guilty of foul play at Wrottsley, butin
their enthusiasm, went so far as to say
they were quite sure he never could have
been guilty of anything wrong. Was it
likely that a man who had risked his own
life to save that of one of his traducers
would stoop to such pitiful conduct ? It
was sublime ; it was heroic ; it was a piece
of splendid chivalry, such as one rarely saw
in these degenerate days ; and Sir Jasper
usually had to retire discomfited, from the
flood of feminine eloquence he had brought
down on himself. As Jim Glanfield remarked,
who happened to be present on one
of these occasions : " Gad ; when a woman
does believe in a man, she don't do it by
halves. Wheldrake did a very generous

and plucky thing; but he is not quite a
Curtis you know."

But if there is one person severely exercised
by this al-fresco life it is Mr. Jackson.
Sir Jasper and the ladies had the two rooms
in the hut, Whel drake and Glanfield shared
one of the two tents, Patroceni himself
taking the other ; but Jackson was left to
lie down anywhere on the plateau he
fancied. The old man groaned in the morning
; for he had been accustomed to more
luxurious lying, and the softest turf is
wondrous hard when you are accustomed to
a mattrass. Jackson, too, was one of those
fine old English servants whose belief in
feather-beds and unopened windows was
still unshaken, and to be called upon night
after night to take to the bare ground and
the open air instead was trying to a man of
his years Foreign ways, foreign dishes,
foreign hotels, and a foreign language had
all been severe trials to the old man ; now
everything had culminated.

This riff-raff," he muttered, " can't even
be said to have ways ; they have no regular
time for meals, but eat any time, sleep anywhere,
and speak a heathenish tongue that
no educated man can understand. It's a
dead waste of life living up here. Waste of
life, indeed ! Good heavens ! what put that
2 into my head ? — waste of life, and us encircled
by cut throats, who would have no
more scruple about knocking us on the head
than they would a bullock ! Don't suppose
they have such a thing in this miserable
country. I'd give a quarter's wages for a
beefsteak and a jug of Wrottsley ale.
Sleep ! I never get any sleep. What's the
use of this red wine of theirs to a man
accustomed to take his malt regular ?
What with lying on the bare ground, and
keeping an eye on this precious lot of
scoundrels into whose hands we have fallen,
I have well-nigh forgotten what a comfortable
sleep is."

If the safety of the party depended upon

old Jackson's vigilance they were most
decidedly in a bad way; whatever that
faithful servitor might say about his sleeplessness,
his nose at nights gave stentorian
denial to ; in short, if his hosts had shot
him for interfering with their slumbers they
might have pleaded justification for what
they had done. Still Jackson was firmly
convinced that he was watching the course
of events with extreme vigilance. He would
walk across and glare curiously at the
cookery as if he detected poison in the
broiling of a cutlet. Ho would Ksten to
their conversation, look over their card-playing,
watch the rapid gesticulations which
they used in their speech to each other, and
from all or any of these draw the most
astounding deductions of their intentions
with regard to himself and his companions.
At present he was boiling over with a desire
to find some one to whom he could confide
his suspicions. Mr. Glanfield was of no
use : he had tried him and pronounced him

a gentleman deficient in gumption. There
was Mr. "Wheldrake, but then there was
that matter of thirteen nines in the pack of
cards which was not calculated to inspire
confidence. Should he confide in his
master? No; Sir Jasper clearly didn't
understand these surrenders or else he would
never have given his best dry champagne
to a robber chief. There was Miss Maude,
but she was too young.

It was not likely that the old butler
would think otherwise of Miss Eversley;
he had known her all her life, and under
the circumstances old servants are very slow
to recognise we have attained years of discretion,
regarding us as children long after
we are responsible for our actions in the
eye of the law.

There was Mrs. Pullerton. " Nice lady
is Mrs. Fullerton," said old Jackson to
himself ; " but flighty, flighty ! They all
are; there's a good deal of ginger-beer
about women ; they are all pop, effervescence,

and froth, and, like that sparkling
but frivolous liquid, they don't stick to you.
What I want, in a desperate situation like
this, is a real port wine man, and the trouble
is there ain't one on the premises. Well,
it isn't the first time the honour and safety
of the family's been in the hands of the
butler. Thomas Jackson, you'll do your
duty until such times as help comes, or the
murdering thieves make an end of you ; "
and then the old gentleman, in his enthusiastic
pursuit of further information, tumbled
over sleeping men, who cursed him with
southern fervour, blundered in upon Whelm
and Maude in the midst of one of
those sunshiny passages of " love's young
dream," or drew a complimentary " What
does the old idiot want now ? " from Cranfield,
whom he had disturbed in a pleasant
tete-astute with Mrs. Eullerton. The whole
scene was so utterly out of his province, so
utterly foreign to any previous experience,
that the old man might be said to live in a

perpetual state of nightmare, firmly convinced
that the safety of the entire party
depended upon his coolness and decision,
and that there was not one man of the
entire band who was not hourly plotting
their destruction. Glanfield and Wheldrake
had many a discussion over the state of
affairs. Wheldrake, basking in Maude's
smiles, which, in defiance of her father, she
persisted in shedding upon him, looked at
things through roseate spectacles. lie
would not believe but what Hamilton
would do his best for them.

I tell you, Jim," he said for the
twentieth time, " although I did it under a
misconception, it was the best bit of luck
that ever befell me. It has brought Maude
and me together again, and that is all the
world to me. Hamilton is, perhaps, just
as well out of Patroceni's reach, and, in
spite of all that is past, and all that he has
made me suffer, I can afford to forget and
forgive. You race a bit, Jim, and have

seen plenty of play in your time ; well, you
know what I mean when I say I believe in
my star against Hamilton's. I always
beat him ; I won his money to start with ; I
won, unwittingly it is true, the bride he had
marked out for himself ; he took the next
trick ; he took away my character, he took
away my affianced wife ; pretty well a tie
so far. When it comes to drawing the lots
here, again I win ; it was not fair, as we
know now, but the juggling that was exercised
against me at Wrottsley was exercised
in my favour on the mountain side. I throw
that advantage away. I let him take my
place. What's the result ? I win back the
bride I thought I'd lost. No; something
tells me we shall all come safe out of this
mess."

It's all very well," replied Glanfield,
but when they once cut up rogues I never
believe in them again. Yes; it has been
a pretty match between you so far, but
you look like winning in a canter now.

Once out of this scrape, and if you don't
marry Maude Eversley you will have
thrown the race away."

I think you may congratulate me, Jim.
Hamilton ought not to be very long over
his mission."

Not if the beggar can run straight, but
when they once turn tricky, as he's done,
they always go around corners to get at
anything. Hamilton is just rook enough
to be unable to refrain from attempting to
get a little the best of it. That's where
our danger lies. He'll try to overreach
Patroceni, and it will take a very much
cleverer man than he is to do that."

Nonsense, old fellow ; he knows how
much depends upon it. He would surely
act loyally to us, at all events, in this
matter. He must know what any trickery
on his part might lead to."

Yes, he knows, old man," replied Cranfield,
as he pitched away the stump of his
cigar. " They know they will be kicked

out of a club, and lose all social caste,
when they're troubled with his complaint.
As I said before, he can't run straight.
However, there is no use talking about it ;
I'm ois to bed. But Fred Hamilton, in
his anxiety to get the best of his fellow-creatures,
will come some terrible cropper
before he has done. Good night ! "

Wheldrake paced up and down smoking
his cigarette between the tents and the
hut. For some little time he had some
idea, perhaps, of a light muslin dress
fluttering out to join him in his walk. It
had happened so the last two or three
evenings, and very pleasant Wheldrake had
found it, but he was not destined to be so
gratified to-night. As he turned for about
the twentieth time, still fondly hoping to
see the flutter of Maude's robe in the
moonlight, he was confronted by the portly
person of old Jackson.

"They're going it, sir, they are. They're
a- working of themselves up, they are, as

hardened and perhaps as finished a set of
blackguards as ever a respectable man set
eyes on. But human nature, sir, is human
nature, wherever you find it. The criminal
classes at home, as is well known, sir, always
wind themselves uj) for their iniquities, and
that's just what they're doing. They've
got a hamper of wine from somewhere or
other, and they're a swithin' and a guzzle'
like wild beasts, they are. They haven't
got a mug amongst them, much less a
glass. They're passing the bottle, not from
hand to hand like-christians, but from
mouth to mouth, and there's two or three
of them down there whose mouth seems to
hold a quart, or thereabouts. At the rate
they're going' it won't take 'em long to be
equal to doing our little job. Don't you
think, sir, we'd better all retire into the
hut and make the best fight we can of it ? "
No, no ; I think you mistake, Jackson.
These fellows I've no doubt are having a
big drink, but I don't think they are likely

to trouble themselves about us for the next
two or three days at all events'

"Well, I hope you may be right, sir,"
replied Jackson. " If you can sleep under
these circumstances you are much to be
envied ; as for me, I couldn't do it. This
blessed grass-plat is not what you call a
thing to make you drowsy. Then, sir, I'm
accustomed to my supper with a good pull
at old ale and a glass of something hot and
comfortable to top up with. These savages
never offer one anything to eat after sundown."


What, they didn't ask you to join their
party, Jackson ? " said Wheldrake, much
amused.

"It's not very likely, sir," replied Jackson,
drawing himself up, " that I'd sit down
with the likes of them. The juniors is pretty
vulgar when we first get 'em, as a rule, but,
dash me ! I never saw them take to drinking
out of a bottle."

Now, Jackson, I wish you good night,"

VOL. II. T

replied Wheldrake. " I'll guarantee you
come to no grief this night."

'■' It's all very well, Mr. Wheldrake, but if
you think you can calculate upon what a lot
of wild beasts like these will do when the
drink's in 'em I can only say you and I
ain't of the same opinion. Good night, sir,
and may we all be alive tomorrow morning
! " After which cheerful refrain the
hardly-tried Jackson proceeded to prowl
about the plateau for an eligible place on
which to stretch the big horse-rug he carried
over his arm.

The feast to which the old butler foresaw
such a sanguinary termination was no
phantom of his brain. Pietro had received
from Naples only that afternoon a very
comfortable hamper of wine, and had invited
his more immediate cronies to make
merry with him. No tallies with their
liquor these, no suppers, no dilatory drinkers
who quaffed their wine from pitiful glasses ;
but men who drank deep draughts of the

blood-red wine, and thought the mouth of
a bottle sweeter to kiss than that of a
woman. Little recked they of Jackson and
his misgivings. Little heeded they of their
captives or thought about what was to come
to them. They were engrossed with their
pastime, and, when the last flask was
finished, slept where they had fallen on the
field of battle, as men with the proud consciousness
of having done their duty. And
when Jackson, after another sleepless night,
woke with a start such as a startled horse
might give, he found the nasal symphony
played by his anticipated murderers well
nigh drowned the sweet concert of the birds.

t 2

CHAPTER, XVIII.

NEWS FROM NAPLES.

During the next few days neither Sir
Jasper nor any of his party saw anything
of the Count. He was still in the camp,
they knew, as they caught an occasional
glimpse of him, although he avoided coming
near them. No restriction was placed upon
their actions within certain limits; but
beyond this, it was sternly intimated to
them by Sarini, they were not permitted
to go, and that any attempt to overstep
such limits would be at their own risk.
That the Count was in communication with

Naples both "Wheldrake and Glanfield felt
pretty certain. They noticed that messengers
both came and went, and it was
fair to presume that Patroceni had emissaries
of his own in the city, who were
vigilantly watching both the movements of
Hamilton and the police. About these
latter the Count had certainly as yet no
cause to disturb himself. They had made
no sign whatever, and the English Consul
had been loud in his remonstrances about
their apparent apathy. The captives knew
nothing ; but then there was little to know.
Still Sir Jasper did think that Patroceni
might at all events have let them know
how the negotiations progressed. He fumed
and fidgeted a good deal. His daughter
was carrying on a love-affair of which he
had strongly expressed his disapproval under
his very nose. He could not take her away ;
he could not send Wheldrake away ; and it
was impossible to prevent the lovers being
continually together. He could not be

constantly reminding Wheldrake that he
had not cleared the stain from his name
in his (Sir Jasper's) opinion. Glanfield
might think so ; but then Glanfield, despite
the evidence of his own eyes, had refused
to believe in the evidence of his friend's
guilt in the first instance. The sole proof
of his innocence rested on the word of an
unscrupulous adventurer, who had shown
them pretty conclusively that he was no
stickler at trifles. "Well, there was one
consolation : his girl and Cyril could not be
married up here on the mountain side, and
surely Maude would scarcely give her hand
to a man in direct opposition to her father's
wishes. Still after the first day or two,
when the novelty of the situation had worn
off, when the terms of the ransom had been
all fixed and there was nothing to do but
to await the delivery of the stipulated sum,
Sir Jasper felt distinctly bored. The discovery
that Wheldrake and Hamilton had
changed places had given a temporary

fillip to things, insomuch as Patroceni had
seemed disposed to resent such tampering
with his arrangements in ruthless fashion.
There had been an imminent prospect of
death coming to two of the party at short
notice. Men don't feel the hours roll slowly
by when they fancy their comrades have
but few of those hours left to live.

But now the storm had blown over, the
whole thing was reduced to the wearisome
monotony of a prison — in fact, so bored
was the baronet, and so disgusted at the
way the remainder of the party had paired
off, that he could have found it almost in
his heart to sit down to cribbage with his
butler.

Jackson soon discovered that his master
listened more patiently to him than did
any one else, and the reason was not hard to
see— he was pretty nearly the only person
Sir Jasper had to talk to. Wheldrake,
under the circumstances, naturally gave
him a wide berth. One cannot talk comfortably

with a man whom one knows
regards one as a card-sharper, and that
feeling the baronet never could keep out of
his discourse with either Glanfield, his
daughter, or his sister ; and as they all were
strong in the opposite opinion conversation
with them invariably ended in acrimony.

The baronet, therefore, listened with considerable
amusement to Jackson's account
of the bandits' revel of the previous night.

I'll tell you what, Jackson, men who
pass the bottle as freely as our friends there
do, according to your account, can't be very
good guards. Why, I should think there
was nothing to prevent our walking out of
the camp last night."

That's just it, Sir Jasper," replied the
old butler, looking furtively round. " There's
the sentries, of course; but, though they
don't make beasts of 'themselves, they are not
above taking a goodish pull at what's going.
If we could only induce them to take their
nightcaps strong enough," continued Jackson,

mysteriously, " why, Sir Jasper, I don't
see much to prevent our all walking quietly
back to Naples without paying our fares
to the tune this furrin impostor proposes."

The baronet said nothing, but remained
wrapped in thought for a few minutes.
Men in their youth scatter money as a
farmer sows seeds. This is popularly known
as sowing their wild oats, and the garnering
of that crop is a bitter harvest-home to most
of them ; but later on, when the folly and
vanity is, or ought to be, shaken out of us ;
when we have learned how very much easier
it is to spend a sovereign than to make one,
we begin to feel some reverence for the
science of accumulation, for a science it
is, as is clearly shown by the pronounced
failure of many who, either honestly or dishonestly,
devote themselves to its pursuit.
Now, Sir Jasper was as free-handed a man
as ever lived. No one could accuse him of
what Byron calls that " fine old gentlemanly
vice of avarice " ; but when it conies

to a matter of saving thirty thousand
pounds the most reckless man would take
the matter into grave consideration. That
a man like Jackson should think their
escape perfectly feasible was very natural.
He had never been in such a position
before. He knew that about four hours'
walking had sufficed to bring them from
the place where they had been captives to
the Camp. He had a sort of foggy idea
that once past the sentries nothing would
be easier than to regain the high road to
Naples, and once there they would be in
safety. He forgot that they must be between
six and eight miles from the highroad;
that they had no conception whatever
of the way ; and that they would
hardly be able, with such a determined
pursuer as Patroceni on their track, to call
themselves free men until they should find
themselves within the suburbs of the city.
But it did seem odd that these drawbacks
did not immediately strike Sir Jasper, to say

nothing of the vengeance that an attempt to
escape would infallibly draw down on the
heads of some of the party. It was perhaps
not altogether the possibility of saving his
thirty thousand pounds, but the terrible
ennui produced by imprisonment and inactivity,
that at length induced Sir Jasper
to listen to Jackson's scheme. Still when
he came to think over it the baronet began
to have misgivings. Possible their escape,
so he thought — for men, but he did not feel
that the ladies were to be depended upon
for a forced midnight march, and, of course,
to depart without them was out of the
question. Tf he could not quite get on
with Glanfield just now in consequence of
that little difference of opinion between
them on the subject of Wheldrake's conduct
at Wrottsley, still he had an immense
belief in that gentleman's shrewdness and
common sense, and, therefore, thought it as
well to sound him at once on the subject.
If they were to escape it must undoubtedly

be all together; and, therefore, sooner or
later it was incumbent upon him to take
them all into his confidence. He began
with Mr. Glanfield, who promptly rendered
further confidences totally unnecessary. No
sooner did Sir Jasper unfold Jackson's story
to him and his (Sir Jasper's) own deductions
as to what advantage might be taken
of this deep revelry of their captors, than
Mr. Glanfield cut him short with a very
decided opinion on the subject.

"No go, Sir Jasper. They get pretty
boozy every night, most of 'em, no doubt ;
but they're like those chaps on board ship,
they seem to do it in watches. Lot number
one on guard, lot number two getting
drunk, lot number three sleeping it off —
those that get drunk have time to recover
and are all there when it is their turn to
keep guard. Lord, Sir Jasper, if we did
slip through their sentries (and it's a big
if), we should be missed before we had been
gone ten minutes, find ourselves totally lost

in about the same length of time, one or
two of us probably rolled over like rabbits
before we got a mile from the camp, and
the remainder back there again by the end
of the half-hour. It's not good enough,
baronet. You can't suppose I funk, but
the minute we get out of sight of these
sentries we are just like what the Americans
call 'turned round' on the prairie — we
don't know where to head for."

No, you're right. I suppose it isn't
worth it ; we can't afford to chance women's
lives, though I should think at the worst
they would send them back to Naples."

One would think so," replied Glanfield.
But about our illustrious selves don't you
make any mistake, Sir Jasper. Things are
all very quiescent now, but, should hamilton
bungle matters, our friend Patroceni
will be a man of his word, and some of us
will have seen the end of our tether. Dull
work, but we've nothing to do but watch
and wail."

That same afternoon Maude was strolling
about the plateau talking to Wheldrake,
and she also began to speculate on the
probabilities of their release.

u How long do you think it will be," she
asked, " before we hear of Fred, and what
he is doing for us ? I can quite understand
that a large sum like this cannot be
raised without some little delay, but still
he might let us know that the matter is in
hand."

i; Hush, my darling," rejoined Whelm
as he threw a quick glance around ;
u I have had a line of news this morning.
It is not from Hamilton, nor is it of
much importance. Whether the Count or
Sarini have seen it I don't know, but it is
so guarded that the writer evidently thought
it was very probable they would."

Who is it from, and what does he say?"
inquired Maude, eagerly.

Well, it's from my servant Chisel, and
I can thoroughly rely upon him in this

scrape. How it has come to me I tell you
honestly I don't exactly know. I can only
say one of our precious hosts, named Pietro,
gave it me, with many shrugs and winks,
and polite hints that the postage had not
been paid. Now we are in such a ticklish
position that I am afraid to trust any one.
My correspondent is, however, as cautious
as myself. There was next to nothing in
his note, and he does not even hint at an
answer. All he said was this : — .

6 Sir, — I take advantage of a chance opportunity
to let you know that I met
Captain Hamilton at Messrs. Toldii and
Kratz the other morning, and I believe all
arrangements for your speedy return to
Naples will be very shortly concluded.'

"Now," continued Wheldrake, "I call
that real good news. It shows that everything
is going on all right. That Chisel
should have been able to get a letter to meat
all is a sign that we are once more in communication
with our friends. That he does

not say any more is, in my eyes, a thorough
guarantee of his being a very safe correspondent.
That note, you see, compromises
nobody, while a rash epistle, falling into
Patroceni's hands, might aggravate our
position to a very great extent. To put it
mildly, our detention might be made very
much more uncomfortable. If you were confined
to the hut, and I was confined "

"Oh, Cyril, Cyril, don't talk in such a
dreadful way."

Yes, Maude, you're right. The days
would be very long if we could no longer
see one another."

Ah ! yes, sir ; you ran away from me
for some months, and all because you had
no belief in my love. Don't you know that
when a girl gives her heart to a man she
will hear of nothing to his disparagement,
much less believe it ? If you were found
guilty of breaking every command in the
Decalogue, you would find me still by your
side. When a woman gives herself to a

man, his honour becomes hers, and the
world would hold her craven if she did not
stand by him in his time of trouble."

Yes, you were true to me when circumstances
looked cruelly against me. What I
have heard here has been quite sufficient to
convince Glanfield, at all events, of my
innocence ; but your father, Maude, is still
dogged in his disbelief, and he has, so far,
justice on his side. I can disprove the
charge made against me only on the evidence
of the man who made it ; and he,
according to his own admission, has quarrelled
with your cousin, and accuses him of
having introduced the false cards into my
note-case. This may absolve me before
many men; but others, like your father,
will say there is no smoke without fire.
That Count Patroceni will probably say anything
that suits him at the time, and that
the play, probably all round, with the exception
of Glanfield, was more scientific than
straightforward. ' '

VOL. II. IJ

"You don't mean to say, Cyril," cried
Maude, with cheeks aflame and flashing
eyes, " that anybody would dare now to say
that you played unfairly that night at
Wrottsley ! "

"Only too many," replied Wheldrake,
slowly. " I do not want to hurt your feelings
by conjecture ; but the real story of
that business, the virtual clearing of my
name, will not take place till I have discovered
who the confederate was amongst
the household. Somebody must have removed
those false cards every morning from
the table, and that somebody must have
been perfectly aware who employed him todo
so. It will be painful, very painful, but
I have no alternative."

"I don't understand; how can clearing
your good name be painful ? " said the girl,
looking up at him with a puzzled expression
on her face.

Can't you see, dearest, that, though I
did not use false cards, still there is no

doubt they were used. I can only clear
myself by fixing the guilt on somebody
else;'

But why should you hesitate ? " cried
Maude ; " it is your character against Patroness
; and really I don't think that his
character will be much damaged by a
trifling crime of this nature being added to
the list of his offences."

You still do not quite understand me.
I do not think Patroceni was the culprit."

« Why ? Who else could it be ? You
surely do not suspect either Mr. Glanfield
or Pred ? "

Certainly not Glanfield; but I am sorry
to say when I establish my innocence it will
be at your cousin's expense."

Por a minute Maude was silent. Then
she suddenly exclaimed —

But you must do it. Such a monstrous

injustice cannot be permitted as that you

should bear the disgrace and odium of

Pred's crime. I am grieved, dreadfully

u2

grieved, but the truth must be made evident,
if possible."

I must convince your father of my innocence,"
said Wheldrake ; " and when we
get back to England I don't think that will
be difficult. I have heard a good deal of
what went on in the house amidst the servants
after I left. Old Jackson, it seems,
held a species of inquiry on his own account.
He is not quite the man to manage a thing
of this sort. He told Glanfield that he had
discovered the culprit, but could not make
him confess. My impression is, Jackson
simply thought he had discovered the
culprit, that he put the saddle on the wrong
horse, and accused some one who had
nothing at all to do with it. I'll engage
that Chisel my valet would very soon get to
the bottom of the matter if, as I suspect,
the confederate was a servant. When we
get back to England I shall not be long
before I convince Sir Jasper of my innocence."


"And that," said Maude, "will, I trust,
not be very long now."

No ; judging by the note I read to you,
Hamilton is doing his best for us, and
everything bids fair to be speedily arranged ;
and now good night and pleasant dreams to
you," and with a warm embrace the lovers
parted.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE FISH BITES.

Leroux was in the "Villa del Realee the next
day at noontide, with a view, if possible, of
running across this unfortunate agriculturist,
who pursued his industry on the
mountain-side towards Amain — determined
to turn that luckless husbandman inside
out. Much information connected with
Patroceni to be wrung out of this man,
rightly taken, thinks Leroux. An invalid
who considers he requires fresh air and
strong wine ought not to be difficult to get
to the bottom of. As Leroux expected,

Giovanni was not long before he made his
appearance. Not only were the gardens
just such a lounge as a convalescent like
Giovanni would thoroughly appreciate, but
they contained two attractions which were
to the bandit as the loadstone to the needle
Matteo and his w T fine. The latter had
always a fatal fascination for Giovanni,
while it did horn good to watch his enemy,
and brood over the vengeance he meditated
as soon as his strength should be
restored. At their next meeting he made
no effort to conceal himself from Matteo,
but promptly greeted that worthy, and told
the same story to him that he had told to
Pietro and his comrades in camp — that he
had been near to death's door, and had
come into Naples in search of better food
than he could obtain in the mountains to
help him to recover his strength. He
affected to Matteo to be much weaker than
he really was.

That crafty innkeeper by no means believed

everything his dear comrade told
him. He knew perfectly well that his
testimony had nearly cost Giovanni his life,
and understood his character much too well
to suppose that he did not cherish some
feeling of resentment towards him on that
account. "When Giovanni made his appearance
at the Pavilion the next morning
Matteo not only insisted on his having a
glass of wine, but expressed his delight at
seeing him about again. Curious though
he was as to who Giovanni's companion of
the previous day had been, he made no
allusion to the fact of the bandit's presence.
It had pleased Giovanni to take no notice
of him, and Matteo tacitly ignored that he
had recognised him. Eut, whilst they were
still idly chatting, the elderly stranger once
more made his appearance, and, seating
himself at the table, greeted them courteously,
and asked for a cup of coffee. No
sooner had Matteo disappeared in search of
it, than the mock Herr Stein remarked : —

Ah! signor, an excellent man no doubt,
the landlord, but his wines are of no pure
vintage. I felt uncomfortable all day after
our little imprudence of yesterday. You
will, no doubt, think me fastidious, but I
must tell you I am in the wine trade myself,
and know what tricks are played with the
juice of the grape. In flash places like
these landlords are made to pay so much
for the privilege of selling it, they are rented
so high, that it is only by much adulteration
they can get a living out of it. It is at
quiet little inns, in the less fashionable
quarter of the town, that you must go for
good wine."

Giovanni said nothing for two or three
minutes ; he was disappointed. He had
looked, not only to meeting the stranger,
but to that stranger repeating his conduct
of yesterday. Giovanni dearly loved wine,
but, as his pockets were generally destitute
of coin, he still more highly appreciated
it when he had nothing to pay for it. It

was not Matteo's usual custom to regale
his comrades free of expense when they
happened to put in an appearance. He
received them quite on the footing of the
general public, and expected them to pay
for what they consumed ; but this stranger,
surely he was not going to take this same
narrow-minded view; if he dealt in wine
he should encourage men to drink it, and
not simply call for coffee !

One may taste a good deal worse before
one tastes better," he growled at length.
"Wealthy men like yourself may drink
rich wines, but poor peasants like me must
be content with the poorest stuff."

You mistake, my friend, I am far from
wealthy; I am but a clerk in a wine-merchant's
house. One small advantage of
my position is that I have the privilege of
purchasing wine for my own consumption
at a very cheap rate."

At this instant Matteo appeared with the
coffee, and conversation between the pair

ceased. It was a curious instance of instinct
between the bandit-innkeeper and the police-agent.
Neither had the slightest suspicion
of what the other really was, and yet each
experienced a singular distrust. Matteo
was inquisitive as to who this elderly
gentleman might be ; still he was not only
so by nature, but his connection with
Patroceni had made it almost his business.
Leroux on his part did not for one instant
suspect Matteo of having any relations with
the men of the mountain, but he thought
him a prying, tattling landlord ; and his
reason for taking up the line he did on the
subject of the wine was that he was anxious
to obtain a quiet conversation with Giovanni
far from the reach of Matteo' s inquisitorial
eyes and ears. He had, as before said,
penetrated at their first interview Giovanni's
weakness, and baited his trap accordingly.
There was no wine to be had at his expense
in the Villa del Realee, but Giovanni clearly
understood that, if he chose to accompany

that quiet elderly gentleman to one of these
old-fashioned taverns he talked of, there
would be wine, and probably better wine
than he was accustomed to, set before him.

During the time that Matteo hovered
about the table no further conversation took
place between his guests. The stranger
sipped his coffee and smoked his cigarette
in silence, which Giovanni made no effort to
break. Suspicious as Matteo was, he began
to think the meeting of yesterday must have
been a mere chance between the pair ; and,
after inquiring whether there were any
further orders, he once more retired into the
pavilion. He had no sooner disappeared
than Giovanni remarked : " One does not
like to hurt the feelings of an old friend,
signor — I have known Matteo here for sometime.
One is loth to tell him so, but, as you
say, his wine is not up to the mark."

This had never occurred in the least to
Giovanni, nor did it now. It was quite as
good as he was accustomed to, but he was

not going to neglect a chance. The strange
gentleman should be afforded an opportunity
of letting him taste a superior vintage
if he chose.

Leroux was in no hurry to take the hint.
He was much too clever to wound the susceptibilities
of the tattling innkeeper by
carrying off a customer.

If we should meet about the gardens
tomorrow, signor, I shall be happy to take
your opinion of a different vintage' and
with this Leroux finished his coffee, made a
courteous bow, and took his departure.

Giovanni, although by no means quick-witted,
had, like most of these low brutal
natures, a considerable amount of cunning
where his own interests were concerned. He
was quite aware without further words that,
if he chose to meet this affable old gentleman
in some other part of the gardens
tomorrow, an adjournment to some snug
tavern and gratuitous wine would be the
result.

It never occurred to him to ask whv a

t/

stranger should be so anxious for his society.
This, which would have at once struck the
superior intelligence of Matteo, never entered
his head. It was sufficient for him
that lie was to be supplied with the means
of indulging in his favourite vice. Leroux
had instinctively shown his judgment when
he had elected to defer the process of pumping
his victim till he had got him from
under the eye of the sharp proprietor of the
Pavilion. The next day found Giovanni in
the gardens of the Villa del Eeale at the
same time. He had not to wander about
far before he espied the wine-merchant's
clerk, punctual to their unmentioned tryst.
The old gentleman was seated on a bench a
considerable distance from the Pavilion, and
apparently wrapt in reverie.

But for all that, his eye, keen as a hawk's,
had seen Giovanni the moment he entered
the grounds — some minutes, indeed, before
that worthy had recognised him.

Leroux was a thorough artist. Giovanni,
Matteo, or even the Count himself, adroit as
the latter was in every description of disguise,
would have opened their eyes wide to
find that grey-haired, feeble old gentleman,
with the silver-rimmed spectacles, was in
reality an active man in his prime, and one
of the smartest and most daring officers in
the Neapolitan police. He welcomed Giovanni
cordially, and expressed a hope that,
after they had enjoyed the delicious air for
half-an-hour or so, the signor would spare
the time to try a flask of wine with him at
a little tavern, which was quiet, and where
he was well known.

Could Giovanni spare the time? Could
he not for any experiments of that nature ?
He was like that witty hut short-lived
journalist who was always in a hurry, and
whose parting salutation was usually,
"Can't stay any longer, my dear fellow. I
have an important appointment to keep " —
it was generally with a glass of hrandy-and-

water at the nearest refreshment bar. The
bandit expressed his delight, and in a short
time the pair adjourned to a quiet, sleepy
little tavern unknown to Giovanni.

In obedience to the orders of his new
friend, a bottle and glasses were speedily
produced, and the stranger proceeded at
once to become confidential. He informed
the bandit that he was a German by birth,
and that he had been for some years in the
house of so-ancl-so, naming at the same
time some leading wine-merchants in the
city. As Leroux conjectured, this conveyed
no sort of information to Giovanni, who
bought his wine at the nearest inn, and had
no knowledge whatever of wholesale houses.
Then the police-agent cunningly turned
the conversation upon Giovanni's own pursuits;
and, though he could make but
little out of him at first yet he ascertained
quite enough to feel sure he was on the
right track, and that Giovanni could tell
him a good deal about Patroceni and his

band did he but choose. So far he was
very guarded. He stuck to his story that
he lived by the cultivation of a small piece
of land at the foot of the mountains, and
the only admission Leroux was able to draw
from him was that the brigands were not
such bad people as they were represented to
be, and often did a good turn to the peasantry
and poor people.

But this was by no means destined to be
their only meeting. Herr Stein took the
air every morning in the Villa del Realee
about midday, and there Giovanni met him
for the next day or two with the utmost
regularity ; but by that the bandit had got
quite affiliated to that sleepy little tavern
on the outskirts of the city, and had taken,
moreover, a strong fancy to this new hostelry.
He found that he came across his
friend Herr Stein quite as readily there as
if he wandered up the gardens above the
bay.

vol. il x

It never crossed Giovanni's mind that, to
a man employed in a house of business, his
new acquaintance seemed to have his time
pretty much at his own command. He
simply voted Herr Stein a good old fellow,
a man after his own heart, and an excellent
judge of a lunch and a bottle of wine. He
ate and drank daily now at the old gentleman's
expense. Delicate, very, was the insidious
flattery of Leroux, who declared, to
an old dried-up townsman like himself, Giovanni's
anecdotes and conversation, redolent
of country air and the hillside, were like a
bracing tonic. Curious, very, this Herr Stein
on the subject of brigandage, ever lost in
admiration of the marvellous achievements
of this famous Count Patroceni. It was
singular with how many of his adventures
Herr Stein seemed to be acquainted.

It is true, my friend," he said, laughing,
that I get my anecdotes chiefly from
gossip and the old newspapers. He has not

been heard of for some little time, but this
last exploit of his has set all the tongues in
Naples wagging, and the stories of his past
career appear to be endless. Odd you never
heard them, for he must be a pretty near
neighbour of yours when you are at home."

This, as it was intended, a little piqued
Giovanni. The hot-tempered, wine-soddened
ruffian chafed at being twitted with such
complete ignorance concerning the hero of
his own neighbourhood, for Herr Stein was
ever careful to represent him quite in that
light.

I know more about him, perhaps, than
you think for," he growled. " You'll keep
it to yourself," he continued, looking cautiously
round, " but I've even seen him, and
experienced both good and evil turns at his
hands."

I thought he never maltreated such as
you," rejoined Herr Stein. " I fancied half
his wondrous achievements were due to the

devotion of the peasantry, and the reverence
they hold him in as a patriot."

And you're right, signor, though it's
but partially true," replied Giovanni, rather
excitedly. " Dear has a good deal to say toit.
There's not a man between here and
Amain dare cross his Excellency. It were
better for him to have quarrelled with the
Government, the police, and the Church
than to have angered the Count."

66 1 wonder' said Herr Stein, musingly,
if you know any one, or could hear of anyone,
who could get a note delivered into
that camp."

"You're not a bad sort, old gentleman,
and, as you say, a cup of coffee and a
thimbleful of brandy is just about the
thing to wind up a lunch with. I'm not
given to talking, but it's just possible that,
if I was convinced there was no harm in it,
I might manage that little matter for you."

"There's nothing like being above-board,"

said Herr Stein ; " I will tell you the whole
story. Count Patroceni has got amongst
his cap ti yes an English gentleman who
deals with our house. That we know is the
case, as do his bankers, the English consul,
anybody. The police have ascertained that
fact. Well, he has a most attached servant
in the city, who is frantic to communicate
with his master. It is only a line ; merely
to say that every step possible is being
taken for his release. I don't suppose you
know it, but Patroceni has released one of
his prisoners to come and treat for the
ransom of the others. This Signor Whelm
servant only wishes to send his
master a Ene to re-assure him."

If I only knew there was no harm in it,"
said Giovanni, in doubtful tones.

Leroux saw the battle was won; he poured
out another petite verve for his companion,
and then said —

"Harm! There can be no harm. The

note will be in your hands to read ; it shall
not be even closed. I will bring it you tomorrow.
If you do not like it, Pouf, tear
it up, and there's an end of the matter !
Count Patroceni has named a certain sum
as the price of his prison hers' release ; there
can't be much harm in letting them know
their friends here are doing their best for
them, and trust very shortly to have
obtained the money. These English, they
have so much money. Now, they would
give a good deal to any one who could
get this simple note conveyed for them."

"I've a great mind to see what I can do
for you," said Giovanni, in irresolute fashion.
"There can be no trouble come of it, and
it seems a pity not to have a share of the
gold when it is flying about."

I'll bring you the note tomorrow, and
five gold pieces to pay for the postage,"
rejoined Leroux quietly ; " and what is
more," he continued, " I will bring a

basket of wine for you to send to any friend
of yours."

It's a bargain," said Giovanni ; " meet
me here at this time tomorrow."

This explains how Wheldrake received
Chisel's note and how Pietro was able so
royally to entertain his comrades.

END OE VOL. II.

Westminster: Printed by Nichols and Sons, 25, Parliament Street, S.W.

Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 04204filfifi

I

*nm*

• ell iii nv i ;i . MfZ m '"WHJ i tBw.J il l . »?V*

i » in i nf i nn

OF Thun
Diversity
Of ILLINOIS

82 3
Smit:
v.3

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/tietrickmelodram03smar

31 Melodramatic Statu

BY

IIAnYLEY SMART.

ArTIIOR OF "Breeze Langton'" " TnE GREAT Tonne," "AT FAULT,
■' FROM POST TO FINISH." ETC., ETC

IN THREE VOLUMES,
VOL. ID-london—

CHAPMAN and HALL

LIMITED.

1885.
[All Rights Reserved.]

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,
2r>, PARLIAMENT STREET.

CONTENTS.

Conclusion,

CHAPTER I.

THE UNDERGROUND MAIL.

Leroux had attained his object ; he had
opened communication with the captives.
That very afternoon he had found out
Chisel and dictated that note. It could
not be too simple, he thought ; a note that
if it fell into wrong hands should commit
nobody. It would be well to feel his way
cautiously before anything compromising
passed between him and the brigands.
But in all his experiences of the criminal

VOL. III. B

classes he had rarely found much difficulty
in persuading them to sell their comrades
for gold. It required tact, doubtless ; the
bribe must be dangled before their eyes
delicately in the first place. There is little
harm, for instance, in smuggling a letter —
more especially when you are well paid for
doing so. Leroux read the contents of this
note over to Giovanni next day, and then
gave it to him unfastened.

You can show it to anybody," he remarked
; " and, if you think it can possibly
work any harm to Count Patroceni or his
men, do not deliver it. It is only natural
that the friends of the prisoners here in
Naples should want to let them know that
every effort is being made for their release."
Giovanni said nothing for some few
minutes, but his eyes sparkled at the sight
of the gold and the basket of wine which
Leroux handed him.

There can't be any harm in that bit of a
note," he said at length. " I'll look it over

again; but I think I can promise to get
that forwarded for you."

The police-agent suppressed the smile
that rose to his lips; it was as he had
suspected ; it was evident to him by Giovanni's
manner that he could not read.
He put the note away carefully in his
pocket without looking at it. What was
to prevent his examining it then and
there ? Simply his inability to understand
it. Leroux had taken all this into his
calculation. Now the question was — Had
Giovanni any friend in Naples to whom
he could venture to show it ? The police-agent
thought not. It was clear that
Giovanni looked upon it that there was
great risk in interfering with the brigands.
It was probable that he would not wish
any one to know that he held communication
with them. Again Leroux was right ;
this was just his companion's dilemma.
He could not read that note himself, nor,
save Matteo, did he know any one in Naples
b 2

that be could trust to tell him its contents.
He was not very likely to make a confidant
of Matteo in the present state of his feelings
with regard to that worthy. All this Leroux
had counted on before making his proposition.
He guessed that the greater part of
the brigands were ignorant peasants, neither
able to read nor write. It would not do to
risk it the first time, but let one or two
harmless notes pass, and they would no
longer care whether the communication was
open or closed. In a few days Leroux
thought there was every probability of
obtaining the intelligence he wanted, namely,
what were their numbers, what were their
habits, what hour would be most suitable
for surprising the camp, and, above all, how
far did their scouts extend ? He meant to
be very cautious ; but if ever there was a
case in which Talleyrand's famous maxim
required to be rigidly adhered to on the
part of a police-agent it was now. " Above
all, point de zee ! " To rescue Sir Jasper

and his party and at the same time to
capture his abductors was an operation so
delicate and involving such risk that most
men, in Leroux's place, would have hesitated
to attempt it. Let a life be sacrificed and
there would be much outcry on the part
of the English Government. Leroux quite
understood what that meant. When a
strong nation begins to bully a weaker one
the latter casts eagerly about for a scapegoat.
There was no doubt in Leroux's
mind as to who would be the scapegoat
in this case. Let him fail, and he would
be held as responsible for any loss of life
that might occur as Patroceni himself. But
Leroux was of the stuff of which heroes are
made, with neiwes of iron and an ambition
insatiable, two qualities which have gone
far to make great generals or great rulers
for the most part. The unsatisfied lust for
territory, main stimulus of your great
conquerors, from Alexander to Napoleon.
Anyhow, Leroux had got his game in his

own hands, for those with power to interfere
in it were in complete ignorance of his
manoeuvres.

Hamilton all this while was strenuously
endeavouring to bring matters to a
conclusion, but the hurrying of the raising
of money is a weary task, as many a bold
bettor or reckless spendthrift has found to
his cost. The anxiety to lend, even at the
most exorbitant interest, is utterly incommensurate
with the desire to borrow ; and,
though Hamilton, fretful and fidgety,
did his best to hurry Messrs. Toldii and
Kratz, yet these accommodating bankers
declared such a sum as he wanted could not
be collected under two or three weeks. He
was honestly desirous of doing his best, but
Hamilton had far too much experience
not to know that, however unimpeachable
your securities, thousands are not plucked
like fruit in an orchard. In a small way he
had seen plenty of this sort of thing in his
time ; and, chafe though he might at the

delay, he was honestly convinced that the
bankers were doing their best. It may be
doubted whether time did not hang heavier
on his hands than on those of the captives
in the woods above Amain. There is not
very much to do in Naples, and Hamilton
thought it judicious to expose himself as
little as nii^ht be. What was to be the
outcome of all this, as far as he was concerned,
even when brought to a satisfactory
conclusion ? Maude was irretrievably lost
to him, while he himself would stand denounced
as a card-sharper before every club
in London. True his denounces might not
be able quite to establish their case, but
their asseverations would be quite strong
enough to throw a taint about him impossible
to tide over. A man's honour in those
days — or nigh a score of years ago— was as
easily tarnished as a looking-glass. We
have changed all that and are changing it
still more day by day. We don't make quite
so much fuss about these trifles as of old,

and it is possible to do on the racecourse or
at the card-table things which would have
once put the perpetrators out of court. It
was not at all that he was reformed. There
are vices that consume a man, that once
they have seized him in their grip he is
helpless to struggle with, and none more so
than this. Once the gambler has taken to
assisting fortune "he is as little likely to
refrain as the opium-eater from the consumption
of his favourite drug. Hamilton
to some extent recognised this ; he had lost
all his money, forfeited his chances, and imbibed
a fatal passion for play. " Why," he
thought, " should he not utilise his knowledge
— why not practise those chicaneries
that, used against himself in his neophyte
days, had doubtless brought him to his
ruin ? " Still, on the subject of rescuing his
uncle and his party, he was determined todo
his best, and had the slightest inkling of
M. Leroux's tortuous scheming fallen within
his ken he would have opposed it tooth and

nail — better judge of the gravity of the
situation perhaps than the police-agent. The
Captain had enjoyed the privilege of Patron
intimacy, and knew infinitely better
than Leroux of what the Count w r as capable.
And yet the archives of the bureau had told
Leroux a good deal concerning his antagonist.
But just as Hamilton would have
sat down to confront the most ruse ecarte-player
in all Paris, so would the police-agent
have backed himself to outwit the most
accomplished escroc in all Europe.

Leroux's scheme was so far a success.
He speedily found himself in constant
communication with the brigands. The
little dejeuner with Giovanni at that sleepy
old tavern in the suburbs had become
almost a daily institution. The bandit
asked nothing better. He approved of the
cookery, he approved of the wine, and in
the matter of that the police-agent was
ever liberal. Postage was paid for with
a lavish hand, and, as far as thick-witted

Giovanni could see, the correspondence was
perfectly harmless. Unluckily, that fact
was precisely what was perplexing M.
Leroux. His notes might be guarded, but
they were nothing to the careful responses
he received. They were all signed " Cyril
Wheldrake " ; but, as the police-agent said
irritably to himself, " If ever there was a
man who hesitated at doing something for
freedom it is my correspondent. There is
no getting the smallest bit of information
out of him. What is the use of such a
note as this ? "

Thanks for yours. Glad to hear things
are going on satisfactorily. Shall only be
too delighted when all arrangements are
complete ; thoughtful of you to write.

Cyril Wheldrake."

"Now," thought the police-agent, "it
has been rather waste of both money and
time to get into communication with a man
who has not more nerve than this. He
must understand what I mean. He surely

can guess that his friends from the outside
are curious to know how things are going
on in the canis. A man with an ounce of
common sense could comprehend all this
without putting me to the risk of asking
such a question on paper."

Wheldrake was no fool. He could understand
all this. He gave Chisel great credit
for having succeeded in establishing this
correspondence between them, but then he
very naturally supposed that he was incommunication
with his valet in Naples.
Even had he known that it was the police
who were prompting these epistles he
would most decidedly have hesitated to
furnish them with any information. The
ransom might be stiff, but Wheldrake
thoroughly comprehended that there was
only one way out of the complication —
namely, to pay the money. He knew well
what he had risked by merely changing
places with Hamilton. Glanfield and
himself understood much more clearly than

the others how near they had been to being
shot off-hand. Sheer good-nature had a
Brood deal to sav to his sending even the
very guarded replies that he did to Chisel's
letters. M. Leroux was puzzled. It was
all very well ; with great difficulty and considerable
expense he had set on foot an
almost daily post between himself and the
captives, but so far nothing could be more
uninteresting than the correspondence. It
might have been published in the journals,
and Patroceni, his band, the whole countryside,
and all the city left to make what they
could of it, and the result would have been
simply that Naples and Patroceni would
know precisely what they did now. How
was he to provoke this Signor Wheldrake
into being more expansive in his communications
? That was difficult. Leroux saw at
once that his correspondent (though Chisel
was the nominal writer) was a shrewd clear-headed
man, who had no idea of compromising
himself or his friends. Leroux quickly

suspected, as was indeed the case, that
Wheldrake would have infinitely have preferred
that this correspondence had never
been established. A terrible disappointment
this to the police-agent. Time was everything,
as he well knew, in this case ; no
information clearly to be got from Signor
Wheldrake ; and yet Leroux, thinking it
over, came to the conclusion that neither
his bribes of money or wine had been
altogether thrown away. There was an
increasing avidity on the part of Giovanni
with regard to a surreptitious correspondence
on which the postage ran to five gold pieces
a letter. True, he had to share his spoil
with his old comrade Pietro, but that worthy
too was greedy of gold; and, although by
no means the drunken swine that Giovanni
was, like most of those men of the mountains
he regarded wine and gambling as the two
great luxuries of life. Two of the gold
pieces, accompanied by a basket affording
the wherewithal for a revel, had completely

won Pietro's adhesion to this unlicensed
post. He had submitted the notes to a
comrade, who, on the strength of having
been a courier, and picked up a slight command
of English expletives, professed to
understand the language. He did to a very-limited
extent, and was perfectly right
when, after laboriously spelling them out,
he pronounced Chisel's notes harmless, and
so M. Leroux had established a willing
agent at either end of the postal line he had
set up.

But, if he had got nothing out of the
correspondence, the police-agent had little
doubt that in a very short time the greed of
gold and the thirst for wine would put all
he wanted to know entirely at his disposal.
Like a Mephistopheles, whose business it is
to trade on the infirmities of our nature, and
armed with that great experience of criminal
humanity which his profession had taught
him, Leroux was assured that the two
deadliest baits to men of that type were

already in their months, only to be speedily
in their maws. Pike-fishers give their
victims a measured time to gorge ; and M.
Leroux knew that he also must afford these
luckless pike of his hooking some short
grace to swallow the bait he so successfully
dangled before their eyes past all repudiation.


CHAPTER II.

Matter SCENTS TREASON.

Careful as Leroux had been to conceal his
intimacy with Giovanni, he had aroused
suspicion on the part of Matteo. The innkeeper,
as has been before said, was prone
that way. The first thing that had attracted
his attention was Giovanni's deviation from
his usual habits. Unknown to that worthy
he caught sight of him on the occasion
when he had met Leroux in the Villa del
Realee, previous to adjourning to that snug
tavern, at which their meetings now habitually
took place. That Giovanni should

enter the gardens and not come for a glass
of wine to the Pavilion was remarkable.
The bandit had few acquaintances in the
city, and even fewer haunts. During his
brief visits to Naples, a room in the slums
of La Vicaria to sleep in, and the tables
outside the Pavilion at which to smoke and
drink, were the two places between which
Giovanni divided his time. Though Matteo
had noticed him in the garden that morning,
he had not seen him leave it in company
with Leroux, and therefore his suspicions
were not excited on that account.
He thought that the bandit would shortly
return to the mountains ; but, wishing to
learn something with regard to the negotiations
for the release of the prisoners, he
thought it worth while to make his way
into La Vicaria one afternoon. He knew
well where his comrades were in the habit
of locating themselves on their visits to the
city, and speedily ascertained that Giovanni
had not yet returned to the camp.

VOL. III. c

This puzzled Matteo. He did not understand
the man's lingering in Naples — it was
quite foreign to his usual habits ; on previous
occasions Giovanni had usually been
accompanied by some of his comrades, and
not a day had passed but what lie had
seen them in the Pavilion. Now the
bandit was apparently alone, and never
came near it. With what object had he
come into the town, what was he doing,
where did he spend his time, and above
all what wine-shop did he frequent? It
was a singular thing that it should never
occur to so shrewd a man as Matteo that
his old comrade might cherish feelings of
extreme rancour with regard to himself.
He never dreamt that the terrible punishment
meted out by the Count was laid to
his door. So omnipotent was Patroceni in
Matteo's eyes that he would have deemed
it better to offend against all laws, human
and divine, sooner than fail in his fidelity
to the Count. That he should report everything

to his chief was to him a matter
past question; that Patroceni should deal
out punishment to them all was a thing
no more to be disputed than the decrees
of Providence : he had merely done his
duty to his chief and his comrades; and
if Giovanni had paid hardly for his offending
what had he to do with it ? He felt
as a soldier might who had simply done
his duty in reporting the fault of a comrade,
and never dreamt that comrade
cherished the most bitter resentment
against him for having done so. It would
have been perhaps better for Matteo had
that idea struck him. Though shrewd and
crafty he was not gifted with either physical
strength or personal courage ; and, supreme
contempt as he had for Giovanni's wits,
yet he had much too great a respect for
his thews and sinews to run the risk of
a personal collision. It was from no anxiety
on his own account, but as a sheer matter
of curiosity, that Matteo set himself the
c 2

task of ascertaining bow Giovanni passed
his time in Naples. He did not suspect
him of treachery, that is, a premeditated
treachery ; but being a man naturally
suspicious, and withal aware of Giovanni's
infirmity, he might well feel a little uneasy
at the thought of his comrade hanging
about the city. It was but the other day
he had betrayed too much to a stranger
in his drunkenness ; who was to ensure his
not doing so again ? And, thanks to their
late exploits, the brigands were in a more
risky situation than they had been then.
Their presence in the immediate vicinity
of the city was then unsuspected, now it
was notorious.

But, to his amazement, Matteo discovered
that this was not quite so easy. It was not
that he anticipated any real difficulty, but
he had fancied that the people at Giovanni's
lodgings would be able to tell him where
that gentleman spent his days. But they
could tell him nothing. As a rule, when

any of the band were in Naples, any of
those affiliated could find them without
difficulty. Now, the lodging-house keeper
could only say, " Surely, Signor Matteo,
you must know, for he takes his meals with
you as usual." I presume Matteo did not
think it necessary to confide to the good
lady that this was not the case; but he
marvelled a good deal where it was that his
old comrade did his eating and drinking.
That it would be easy to what our French
neighbours call "file " Giovanni, Matteo
had no doubt ; but, then, that required
time, and the innkeeper had his business to
attend to. Still it had to be done ; and,
having ascertained from the good woman of
the house about what hour Giovanni was
accustomed to go out for his dejeuner,
Matteo made up his mind to dog his footsteps
the next day.

In accordance with this resolution, nearly
an hour before the time at which Giovanni
was wont to issue from his lair, Matteo was

lounging in the street some little distance
off, but keeping a keen eye on the door.
No sooner did the bandit make his appearance
than he followed him, and easily
tracked him to the old tavern to which
Leroux had introduced him. Having given
his old comrade time to settle himself,
Matteo made his way rather shyly to the
door of the half coffee-room, half-garden,
in which the habitues of the place were
wont to take their meals.

There is a freemasonry in all crafts, and
Matteo was an innkeeper. It is rather a
rule of the road with the better class of
this profession not only to take no money
but to entertain each other somewhat
liberally when one of the trade crosses their
threshold. Matteo certainly did not know
the host of the a Golden Bush " — it was a
retired house ; but it was very possible that
the landlord of the " Golden Bush " knew
him. The Pavilion was a tavern in the full
blaze of day, standing in the big public

gardens of Naples, and haunted by a very
mixed clientele. Visitors of all classes frequented
the Villa del Beale, and sipped
their coffee or drank their wine at the
Pavilion .

Matteo saw that Giovanni had seated
himself in a corner of the garden. A glance
also showed him that he was known here ;
he would have liked to have stolen into the
place, and watched Giovanni at his meal.
But he was afraid of attracting the attention
of the landlord. He by no means
wished that Giovanni should, see him ; and,
though he did not despair of evading his
notice if left to himself, he was afraid that
in a spirit of camaraderie the host of the
Golden Bush" misrht call attention to his
presence. The man whom the king delights
to honour is always the cynosure of all eyes,
and in microscopic fashion the favoured
guest of an hotel coffee-room always provokes
much speculation amongst th other
diners. He hesitated for a few minutes, and

then finally resolved not to risk it — he
would come there tomorrow, procure a
table in the background, and await the
arrival of this renegade, who had deserted
his wine-flasks. He turned on his heel and
was going out when his attention was
arrested by a courteous salutation, and he
found himself bowing to the old gentleman
who had made his appearance in the Pavilion
with Giovanni some few mornings
ago.

Leroux had recognised him at a glance,
and, though considerably put out at seeing
him, was much too shrewd to ignore his
presence. The two men passed with a bow,
and each asked himself, " What the deuce
had brought the other there?" Cunning
and suspicious, Matteo felt no doubt that
this old gentleman was there for the special
purpose of meeting Giovanni. Now, what
could be the meaning of that ? Giovanni
was hardly an object upon whom the most
eccentric philanthropist would w T aste his

money or advice. Matteo knew from
former experience that the sharers of Giovanni's
revels were usually destined to pay
the reckoning. " A pig, a hog, a dolt like
that!" murmured the innkeeper. "What
motive can that old man have in letting
him swill wine at his expense ? For, though
I've not actually seen it, I could stake my
life that Giovanni is waiting there for this
stranger to fill his insatiable throttle. The
thick-skulled sponge, no one would bathe
him in wine except they hoped to get something
out of him. Amusement ! hah ! Information
! chit ! He has none to give but
on the one point, and surely that old gentleman
cannot be interesting himself in the
Count's affairs. No matter! I'll see tomorrow
! "

Monsieur Leroux was every bit as much
put out as the innkeeper of the Villa del
Realee. He had no doubt whatever that
Matteo had come to the " Golden Bush "
designedly. Giovanni had acknowledged

that he was an old acquaintance, and, as
Leroux turned the subject over in his mind,
it began to dawn upon him that this matter
might also have some relation with the
brigands. He had little doubt but that
Patroceni had numbers of spies in Naples
devoted to his interests. To get at the bulk
of these would require more time than he
could devote to it. He must strike hard
and strike quickly, or it would be too late.
Men with the halters round their necks
resent any dallying about their release, and
Leroux felt pretty sure that before many
days that ransom would be paid; and, let
Patroceni only once receive that money,
his prisoners would be set free, and he and
his band dispersed through the length and
breadth of the land. Matteo was at the
Golden Bush " in good time the next day.
He picked out a retired table in a far-away
corner, boldly ordered his dejeuner, and,
producing a newspaper, pretended to be
immersed in its contents. But for all that,

never a soul that entered the tavern escaped
his observation. He had not to wait very
long before Giovanni appeared, and made his
way to the table he had yesterday occupied
with the air of an habitue. He took no
notice of Matteo, but having seated himself
was apparently awaiting the arrival of some
friend before ordering his repast. The innkeeper
had little doubt as to who that friend
was, nor was he kept much longer in ignorance
of the point. A very few minutes, and
Leroux entered the room, and proceeded
quietly across to Giovanni's table ; but the
man's eye was like a hawk's, and, though
neither glance nor manner proclaimed it, he
had taken in Matteo's presence before he
had advanced six steps over the threshold
of the room.

"Your old friend apparently takes a great
interest in your welfare," said Leroux,
quietly, as he seated himself at the table.
Well, that is nice ; our old friends as a

rule are apt to trouble their heads very
little about what becomes of us."

I don't understand you, signor ; what
on earth do you mean ?"

Mean ! " retorted the police-agent.
Only that your friend — ah ! I forget now
what you call him ; but our excellent host
of the Pavilion is breakfasting here. Had
you not better ask him to join us ? "

'• What ! " growled Giovanni, with evident
perturbation of manner, " Matteo
here ! Where ? "

Keep quiet," said Leroux ; " what is
there surprising in that ? The best innkeeper
in the city may tire of his own wine
at times, and long for a little change. It
is only when you get to my age one becomes
conservative and runs in grooves."

Matteo here ! " muttered the bandit ;
where ? "

u As I thought," said Leroux to himself.
Evidently one of Patricii's auxiliaries.

My friend here, I am afraid, is a little in
awe of him. He is sitting over in that
corner," he added, aloud ; " hadn't you
better go over and ask him to join us ? "

Matteo here ! Santo Diavolo ! Does
he suppose I'll submit to his playing the
spy upon me ? "

Tut, tut, signor ! it is absurd to think
anything of that sort ; pray go across and
ask your friend to join us. His presence
here is, doubtless, a mere chance."

He is afraid of this man's surveillance,"

muttered Leroux, as the brawny bandit rose

from his chair and crossed the room to

where Matteo was seated. "This innkeeper

of the Pavilion is, doubtless, one of Patron

most trusted agents. Quite as well I

discovered this. I must study this man

closely. Prom the little I've seen of him I

can fancy him one of the Count's shrewdest

partisans. This was what made him hover

round our table so in the Villa del Realee, and

that is what makes my black-bearded friend

so uncommonly uneasy now. A past master
this," thought Leroux, while his lips curled,
of whom the Signor Giovanni is much
afraid."

But things apparently were not going
quite amicably at Matteo's table. It was
evident that Giovanni was using rough language,
and equally transparent that Matteo
was deprecating his wrath. The bandit
indeed had roughly told his old comrade
that he would submit to no dogging of his
footsteps in this wise, that he was in Naples
for his own convenience, that he was on no
duty this time, and that it was nothing to
Matteo, his Excellency, or any one else, how
he passed his time. In vain the supple innkeeper
deprecated his anger, and vowed that
his appearance at the " Golden Bush " was
the veriest of accidents. Giovanni's ire was
not to be appeased, and the growling of the
storm bid fair to attract the attention of the
room, when Herr Stein glided across and
poured oil on the troubled waters.

You will come across, signor," he said,
and eat your meal with us, I am sure :
it is better so, and this little matter of politics
about which you appear to be differing
can be amicably discussed over a glass of

wine."

Giovanni stared at his new friend in
blank amazement. Politics forsooth ! it was
no matter of politics that lay between him
and Matteo. Men had persecuted each
other on the Italian Peninsula pretty bitterly
on that point, but it was a bigger
difference than that which stood between
him and Matteo. A personal vendetta,
that, whatever the innkeeper might think
about it, was only to be atoned for in Giovanni's
thinking by blood; and, as if his
scheming comrade had not wrought him
bitter wrong enough, here was he once more
playing the spy upon him in Naples.

Did Matteo suppose that he (Giovanni)
was a mere child under his pupilage ? That
he was to be watched, treated, and punished

like a schoolboy ? And then he ground his
teeth as he thought to no schoolboy had
punishment ever been meted out so cruel as
his.

It was not altogether a pleasant party.
Leroux exerting himself to the utmost, was
the pleasant, talkative, elderly man of the
world. Matteo, silky and subtle, did his
very best to respond ; but Giovanni, in his
brooding sullenness, hung like a pall over
his companions. He drank, and drank
deeply, in gloomy silence. No sally of his
companions could bring a smile to his swart,
saturnine face. He was brooding over his
wrongs and taking thought about the righting
of them; and when a man in these
southern countries dreams about righting
his wrongs with his own right hand there is
wont to be a vista of blood in the background
of the picture.

CHAPTER III.

DEATH OF Matter.

It was early morning, the working world
of Naples was just beginning to bestir itself,
when two or three of those first afoot were
disappointed at finding the Pavilion not as
yet opened. Matteo, too, was a man with
the character of having his shutters down
betimes. Rather a popular resort in which
to get an early cup of coffee or glass of
spirits. The early comers growled their
disappointment, and proceeded in search of
their needs elsewhere. But, as the sun rose
higher in the heavens, the closed door and
windows began to attract more attention.

VOL. III. D

A house of call unexpectedly closed is sure
to provoke notice, and the Pavilion did a
good deal of business in its way. Some of
the would-be customers now drummed boldly
on the door, and shouted loudly to Matteo
to come forth and attend to their requirements;
but the innkeeper made no sign.
Nothing but an impenetrable silence responded
to their cries.

At this juncture the man who habitually
assisted Matteo in the business made his
appearance. Tailing to get an answer to
his shouts for admittance he went round
the building to see if he could obtain admission
at the back. But no ! that door was
as securely fastened as the front. The
waiter explained that he lived at home with
his family, and always returned to them in
the evening, coming the first thing in the
morning, and having his meals in the
Pavilion. It does not take much to excite
the curiosity of one's fellow-creatures, and
a perfect volley of questions was put to the

waiter by the little knot now gathered about
the building. He had wished Matteo "Goodnight
' ' about ten ; the innkeeper had told
him not to fasten the front door, as, though
all the guests had gone, he expected a visitor.
The housekeeper, who slept in the upper
rooms, had gone to bed some time before
he left. It was very odd ; neither Matteo
nor the woman-servant were given to oversleeping
themselves ; such a thing had never
happened before in all his recollection, and
he had been there for the last two years ;
he thought something must have happened.
Had they not better break in the door ?

That the door had better be broken in
was carried unanimously, as it was sure to
be. A curious crowd will invariably vote
for the clearing up of a mystery ; but when
it came to who was to do it then the little
knot were not so positive : each being
apparently of the opinion that this was a
duty that it behoved his neighbour to
undertake rather than himself. There was
d 2

much discussion on this point — dexterous
appeals made to individual vanities on the
subject : whereas it was pointed out to one
that his physical strength would make the
breaking of a door open an easy matter to
him, so was it suggested to another that his
well-known knowledge of locks indicated
him os a fitting person to break down the
barrier. But Matteo was known to have a
will of his own ; he was known also to keep
lethal weapons on the premises, and was
likely to resent intrusion on his privacy
somewhat sharply. Moreover, the authorities
had strong opinions about breaking
into houses in Naples. Then the little
crowd jumped to a conclusion, as such
assemblies are wont to do when wanting
to see what is behind a locked door, but
quite declining to take the responsibility of
forcing the lock. It became necessary to
fix that duty upon somebody. Clearly the
waiter was the man, and shrilly the crowd
clamoured that he should do his devoir.

But Carlo, the waiter in question, demurred;
he pointed out that his master
was a peremptory man who endured no
nonsense; that when you forced a man's
front door he was justified in the use of
either pistol or poignard; that he valued his
skin ; that, moreover, his master might give
him in charge to the police.

"The police! the police! That's it,"
shouted the mob. " You've hit it, my little
man. Of course, it's their business. What
are they for but to look into matters like
this ? Send for the police ! Fetch the police
somebody ! " And then once more, with
charming unanimity, the little knot of
gossip-mongers cried out to the waiter to
fetch the police.

Carlo, only too well pleased to be out of
the affair in this fashion, was about to start,
best pace, for the bureau, when the attention
of all was arrested by a wild,
melancholy wail that came from within the
closed house. The men exchanged looks

with each other. " Holy Virgin ! What
does it mean ? " cried some, and then faces
became awed, as men's do who feel themselves
on the threshold of viewing a great
tragedy.

Once again came that prolonged dolorous
cry, and a slight shiver ran through the
group as Antonio, the locksmith, murmured
in awe-stricken tones, " Its his dog. There
is death in the house, or the dumb creature
would never send forth such a pitiful cry of
dismay. Depend upon it, friends, Matteo
will never loose cork for us more'

The howl of the dog and the exhortations
of the bystanders lent a strong impetus to
Carlo's feet, and he sped away for the
bureau of police as fast as they could carry
him. It was not likely the heads of the
office were going to be bothered about the
keeper of a second-class tavern not getting
up in the morning. Bah ! The man had
probably taken more than was good for him
overnight, and was simply sleeping off the

fumes of it. If they were to be called
upon to interfere about every one who chose
to lie a-bed in Naples they would have
enough to do. Still Carlo looked so frightened
that, after grumbling a good deal, they
finally despatched a gendarme with him.

Supported by this authority, Signor Antonio,
the locksmith, speedily undertook to
force the door. He had not much difficulty
with the lock, but the door was another
matter. He quickly ascertained that a
heavy wooden bar — dropped, no doubt, into
stanchions — prohibited entry as well. Of
course, it was possible to cut a panel and
withdraw this bar, but it would take time.
Before doing so, Antonio suggested they
should try some other ingress. Possible,
for instance, that the back door, though
locked, was not defended by bolts and bars.
Antonio marched round at the head of the
little company, and commenced operations
on the rear of the premises. Here he was
very soon successful, the lock quickly

yielded to his efforts, and there were no
further defences to hinder an entrance.

Accompanied by the gendarme and waiter,
the locksmith entered the narrow passage,
and gazed about him. The plan of the little
house was simple in the extreme. Entering
from the back on the right of the narrow
passage which ran straight through it was
the kitchen, and in front of that a small
parlour, on the left a scullery, fronted again
by a comfortable bar. Above the parlour
was the guest-chamber. Over the bar was
Matteo's own bedroom, while at the back
on the upper story were a couple of small
servants' rooms. There was an odour of
crime in the air, when once again came
forth that dolorous howl from a room in
the upper story. Three paces, and the
locksmith started back, and with an exclamation
of horror pointed to the foot of
the stairs. Weltering in her blood across
the two bottom steps lay Nata, the housekeeper,
a powerful woman of thirty, but

who, it was too palpable, would never dress
macaroni or toss an omelette again. For
the first time the gendarme, who had so far
been stolidly phlegmatic in his movements,
and evidently looked upon the whole affair
as utterly beneath his notice, woke up and
gave signs of animation. Turning rapidly
round he sharply forbade further intrusion
on the part of the crowd, who were following
at his heels ; he would have the locksmith,
Carlo, and no other. Stooping down he
roughly raised the woman's hand and convinced
himself that she was dead. He then
pushed on and peeped in at the bar. It
had evidently never been closed for the
night ; the room was open, glasses stood
about, and half-filled decanters. He next
opened the door of the little parlour to the
right, and there lay the body of the luckless
Matteo, with his face beaten nearly out of
all recognition. That Matteo had fought
hard for his life was evident ; the table was
upturned, there was a debris of broken

glass, and also a chair in like case, while
the clots of blood with which the room was
stained gave evidence of a dire struggle
between Matteo and his murderer. That the
innkeeper had neither physical courage nor
strength has been already mentioned, but
the old proverb of the " rat in the corner "
may usually be counted on. Old men, and
men by no means remarkable for courage,
have died wondrous hard, very much to the
astonishment of their murderers, before
now.

Life is sweet and not parted with willingly,
as a rule. The gendarme rose rapidly
to the occasion ; he was in the presence of a
great crime, and was not going to bate one
bit of his official importance under such
circumstances. A discovery of this kind is
as the find is to the fox-hunter. Everybody
without exception was peremptorily ordered
out of the house, and, having closed the
door, the gendarme quietly told Carlo to go
back to the bureau as fast as he could,

acquaint them there with what he had seen,
and say that he (Pedrillo) had remained in
charge of the building. The police-agent
Leroux happened to be in the chief's office
when this intelligence arrived. He left the
questioning of Carlo to his superior, remaining
himself taciturn as usual, but not a
"word escaped him, and already his active
brain was piecing the puzzle together. He
had made up his mind that Giovanni was at
least in connection with the bandits ; he and
Matteo were evidently old friends, and he
suspected in consequence that Matteo also
was connected with them ; that there was
bad blood between the two men had been
palpable at the iC Golden Bush " the day
before; that Giovanni had resented his comrade's
appearance there; and, rightly or
wrongly, attributed it to a desire to pry
into his (Giovanni's) movements. "Now,"
thought Leroux, " only let Signor Matteo
have got it into his head that my burly,

black-headed friend was coquetting with the
police, and let him know that he thought
so, and I can fancy in a combined fit of
rage and terror his committing just such a
crime as this. These messieurs of the mountain
side are pretty prompt and ruthless in
their treatment of traitors, I've heard, and
Giovanni would know. Let them but once
think he even dreamt of betraying them, his
life would not be safe outside Naples. He
was a keen, shrewd man, that innkeeper,
and, if my surmise is just, he let Giovanni
know that he had some suspicion of the
truth."

However, while Leroux is running all
these things over in his mind, the chief of
the police has elicited all Carlo has to tell,
and, turning round to Leroux, suggests that
he should go down and make a preliminary
examination, to which of course Leroux at
once assents.

When he arrives at the Pavilion he finds

it surrounded by a considerable crowd.
The intelligence of the double murder has
spread through the city, gathering size like
a snowball as it rolled ; a whole family has
been murdered, and the numbers of that
family progress in proportion to the number
of times the tale is told. People flocked to
see the scene of the tragedy, although sofar
it consists in simply gazing at the outside
walls of a closed house; for Pedrillo
stands sentry at the one door that has
been forced, and sternly refuses permission
for even so much as a peep at the interior.
Leroux says a few r brief words to his followers,
and the gendarmes, in obedience to
his directions, form a cordon round the
building. He then enters, followed only by
Carlo and Pedrillo, whom he orders to stand
perfectly still and to touch nothing. Le-rout'
s first proceeding is to undo all the
shutters with his own hand, carefully noticing
the fastenings as he did so, to see

if they had been tampered with. A question
to Carlo confirms his idea that the back
door was unbolted and unbarred when they
forced its lock. No doubt the assassin or
assassins entered that way, re-locking the
door behind them when they had accomplished
their hideous work. Leroux next
enters the parlour : there he stands motionless,
while his eyes rove rapidly round the
room. He glances down at the dead man,
and peers keenly into the battered countenance.
Not quite an ordinary murder
this, he thinks. "Whoever slew this man
bore him undying hate, hate so strong that
he vented his rage on him after he had
killed him. The innkeeper was dead when
some of those blows were rained upon his
mutilated face. The tables are all upset,
and the glasses broken now; but there
must have been a festive meeting before
the wild beast new at his prey. Signor
Matteo could have little dreamt his life

was in danger, or he would have never
given spirits to such a man as Giovanni.
It was the match to the gunpowder ; it
was letting the tiger taste blood.

Then he quietly left the room and closed
the door behind him. He regarded the
dead woman at the foot of the staircase
narrowly. " No hate here," he muttered ;
she has been slain with two strokes of a
poignard. Ah ! and, as I thought, here is
the upturned candlestick. Killed, poor
woman, because she at the sound of the
disturbance was rash enough to come downstairs
and become a witness to the murder.
Yes," he continued to himself, as he examined
the passage, " here is the first splash
of blood ; and here is the candle. She
came upon him just as he had slain Signor
Matteo. He flew at her, struck her in the
passage first, and then hunted her to the
foot of the stairs, where he dealt the second
blow, which killed her. It's all clear as

noon-day," thought the police-agent ; " the
poor creature was trying to escape upstairs
when her fate overtook her." Leroux next
went into the bar. He looked at the
decanters and half emptied glasses, and
muttered to himself with a half smile,

68 My bandit friend doubtless manufactured
himself a pretty stiff sedative before
taking his departure ; " and then the police-agent,
being careful to move nothing, commenced
a close and thorough search of the
house. But he found nothing by which to
trace the murderer. There was not a
button, not a shred of clothes, nor anything
by which to identify the assassin, left
behind, and as far as the police-agent could
ascertain no property had been taken from
the house.

As he opened the servant's bedroom at
the back of the house a small dog, evidently
half-wild with fright, sprang back
from the door and snarled at him in the

madness of its terror. But no sooner were
they well inside the attic than it made one
sudden dart through them, and almost fell
from the top to the bottom of the stairs in
its agony to escape. The demented little
thing made at once for the front door,
which, as it knew, in the usual state of
things would be open by that time. Suddenly
it stopped transfixed in front of the
dead body of the servant. The ghastly
scent of blood, and the presence of death,
thoroughly upset the remainder of its bewildered
ideas. It uttered one prolonged
melancholy howl, and then, catching sight
of the open backdoor, fled through the
portal like a mad creature — dumb witness
concerning a murder about which there was
none else to testify.

m

Leroux ordered the house to be again
locked up, placed a guard over it, and
walked back to the bureau to give orders
about the usual legal preliminaries.

VOL. III. E

I have very little doubt," he muttered
to himself, lc as to who the real criminal is,
but there's not a particle of evidence against
him; and, what is more, with a view to
settling with messieurs les brigands en bloc,
I require my decoy-duck to retain his
liberty for a little longer."

CHAPTER IV.

AT THE GOLDEN BUSH.

There was perhaps no man in Naples so
perturbed at Matteo's murder as Fred Hamnierton.
He had no doubt whatever about
the innkeeper of Villa del Eeale's connection
with Patroceni. As he listened to the
accounts of the tragedy he became assured
that this was an act of savage vengeance ;
and that it had been perpetrated at the
instigation of the Count, and no doubt inconsequence
of suspected treachery on the
part of Matteo. It may be remembered
that Hamilton had recognised the unfortunate
man, and hailed him when he had
e2

passed their carriage on the way to Amalfi.
Hamilton had caught sight of him afterwards
in the brigands' camp ; and it was
quite clear to him that the slain innkeeper
had done them the honour that day to be
their avant courier. He felt quite sure that
it was Matteo who had given due notice of
their speedy arrival at the foot of that
forest-fringed hill where they had fallen
into the hands of Patroceni. What had
been this man's crime ? What had called
forth the fiat that had led to his doom?
Hamilton' s experience of these men of
the mountain w r as extremely limited, and
like most of those whose misfortune it has
been to make their acquaintance he had no
desire to extend it. But he was under a
strong impression that brigandage, like all
other secret societies, lived in constant fear
of betrayal, and consequently never neglected
making a terrible example of an
informer. About Matteo's individual fate
Hamilton cared little ; but the question

was, if Patroceni feared treachery how
would he treat the prisoners in his hands ?
He might connect him — Hamilton — with
the dead man's bad faith. This might
make the Count suspect that he was col-learning
with the police, and how he was
to disprove this he did not know. He had
never been near the police, and to the best
of his belief they were unaware of his presence
in Naples at this minute. He wondered
what it was best for him to do. To
seek for information from the bureau would
probably be a fatal mistake. The Count
had no doubt plenty of well-wishers in
Naples who would speedily acquaint him
should he (Hamilton) put himself into
communication with the authorities. But
then, on the other hand, how on earth was
he now to send note or message to Patron
? As yet there had been no call to do
so ; but it was to this very Matteo he had
been told to apply when he felt that he
had news worth the sending. This crime

had unexpectedly cut him entirely off from
the camp and its inmates. What would
they all think of him up there in the woods,
he muttered ; what would Wheldrake think
of him; what would Glanfield say of him.
He had committed a treason at Wrottsley
had as he could be suspected of committing
now, and had felt little compunction about
it. Yet such was the curious kink in the
man's mind that he shrank from the bare
idea of playing the traitor here. Imperfectly
as he understood Italian, still he
had gathered enough from Pietro during his
escape to know that Wheldrake — the man
he had so bitterly injured — had probably
risked his own life to sabre his. Sensualist,
sybarite, and gambler as he was, hamilton
was touched by this, and he swore a big
oath on his way to Naples to do the best
he could according to his lights in this
matter ; yes, even in case of the worst, to
go back to the camp and to share in the
fate of the rest of them. It was hard upon

him : he had nothing to do with it; it was
the sheer force of adverse circumstances.
He had kept closely to himself since his
arrival in the city, and been reticent and
self-constrained in the extreme ; and yet,
though he did not know it, he was incommunication
with the police, and had
indirectly contributed to the murder of
Matteo.

Hamilton had a big smoke as he pondered
over all this ; but, for the life of him,
he could see nothing to do at present but
sit still and await the course of events.

Police-agent Leroux was quite as much
put out in his calculations by this murder
as the Captain. He similarly doubted
whether his communication with the camp
was not also cut off. Matteo, it is true,
had nothing to say to the conveyance of his
letters thereto ; but the question was,
whether this human tiger he employed had
not, his passion satiated, fled back to his
haunts on the mountain-side after the

manner of his four-footed type upon the
conclusion of a successful foray. He had
no doubt whatever that Giovanni was the
murderer, and he knew that men of that
class, when their hands are red, are rather
given to seek safety in flight. Leroux felt
no doubt about laying his hands upon
Giovanni whenever he wanted him ; but at
present his principal anxiety was that he
should not leave Naples. The police-agent
had hit upon a very crafty scheme for successfully
surprising Patroceni ; but it all
depended upon his keeping touch with the
camp, and without Giovanni's assistance he
did not well know how this was to be done.
Well! it was a problem soon solved. He
had but to make up as Herr Stein, and drop
in for his noon-day meal as usual at the
« Golden Bush."

In spite of being harassed with numerous
details concerning Matteo's murder he succeeded
about the accustomed time in
making his appearance at the quiet little

tavern, and the first thing that met his
view after entering was the burly brigand
sipping wine and munching bread while
waiting for the repast he had ordered.

Giovanni stretched out his hand to
Leroux in boisterous welcome. There was
even a triumphant sparkle in his eyes, as
those of a man to whom good luck has
come.

Ah, my friend," he exclaimed, " I am
glad to see you this morning, for I've a
famous appetite. We'll have a flask of the
best to wash down the pigeons and macaroni
that I have ordered."

The brute finds killing a hungry occupation,"
thought Leroux, as he shook hands.
%i However, his nerves seem of iron, and he
exhibits no tendency to fly the city, and
that suits my purpose. Good morning ! " he
continued, aloud, " I should have been here
sooner but I was so interested in this
terrible murder that has been committed — a
murder that concerns you in some measure."

"Concerns me?" growled Giovanni.
You don' suppose I had anything to do
with it?"

Leroux glanced at him as a cat might at
a mouse.

Ah," he said carelessly, " you have
heard of the tragedy, then ? "

"Yes; I heard something about it," rejoined
the bandit.

There can be very little doubt about his
guilt," thought Leroux. " A man who had
just heard of the murder of an old friend
would be full of the subject, and commence
talking of it at once. No," he continued
aloud, " I am not hinting that ; but, as the
unfortunate man was an old ally of yours, I
thought you might have been painfully
interested in his fate."

We were old acquaintances, and had
business relations," replied Giovanni, sulkily.
He sold bad liquor and charged me dear
for it."

A too common offence," replied Leroux,

gravely, " not often meeting with such
terrible punishment as it has in this case."

Don't talk of it," rejoined Giovanni.
I heard somebody he had wronged had
beaten the fellow to death. I've no doubt
he deserved it."

"A very singular crime," observed the
police-agent, musingly. " They tell me
that the house is a perfect shambles. The
assassin has killed not only Signor Matteo
but his cook also, and so far there seems no
conjecture, even, as to who he was or what
was his motive."

Ah," said Giovanni, "they suspect no
one, eh ? "

No one," answered Leroux. "What the
police may think they will doubtless keep
to themselves. By the way, I have another
note that I want forwarded to the camp,
just to say that the raising of the money
is nearly completed. This gentleman who
has been released is very anxious to let his
friends know that."

Giovanni extended his hand for the letter,
and glanced greedily at the gold pieces that
accompanied it. For a moment they absorbed
all his attention, but as he put the letter
into his pocket he noticed that it was
fastened.

This is closed," he exclaimed. " What
does that mean?" And as he asked the
question he glanced suspiciously at the
police-agent.

Stupid of him ! " replied Leroux, carelessly.
" I told him always to send his
letters open. You had better give me both
that and the money back, and I will bring
you another tomorrow ; it is a pity, as the
signor was very anxious to send off his news
at once."

Giovanni hesitated ; he was loth to part
with the gold, and yet extremely anxious
not to do anything that could do harm to
his comrades. He sat playing with the
money and turning the whole thing over
in his mind, and at length it dawned upon

him that after all he had known nothing
of the contents of the previous notes he
had forwarded beyond what Leroux had
told him.

"I will do it," he said at last. "The
contents are what you tell me ? "

What else should he have to write
about ? " inquired Leroux, jesuitically, and
gold and letter at once disapp eared into the
bandit's pocket.

Now, there was in that note what Leroux
had stated; but when he asked what else
could the signor have to say he knew very
well that it also contained news of the
murder.

Chisel had been very much surprised
when Herr Stein had come to him in a
great hurry that morning, and made him
add to his usual report that things were
progressing as favourably as possible these
few lines: — " An innkeeper called Matteo,
who kept the Pavilion in the Villa del

Realee, was brutally murdered last night."
The police-agent thought that the captives
should be furnished with this piece of intelligence,
which might possibly be the
cause of some menace to their lives. Police -
agent Leroux was quite convinced that the
crafty, subtle, innkeeper had been an agent
of Patroceni's ; and, from all he had ever
heard of the Count, thought that he was
just the man to avenge the death of one of
his instruments. If the Count was only
aware that the murder had been committed
by one of his own people, then, of course,
it was a matter amongst the bandits themselves,
but there was nothing to show
that.

Leroux at this time was under a like
excitement that attends the sportsman in
the middle of a big run. He had, as far ashe
could see, all the strings of the game in
his hand; and, though he by no means
overlooked the fact that he had a great man

against him, and all the more dangerous
because nothing had been heard of him
lately, still he did think that he should
checkmate Count Patroceni in the course of
a few days. Chisel, who writes these notes,
has no idea that they are dictated by the
police ; but is under the impression that
they proceed from Herr Stein himself, who
has pointed out to him that, as a great
financial agent, he has several times had
the arranging of these things, and so has
his own way of communicating with the
fraternity of the mountains. Thus it is
always best to keep the captives constantly
informed that every nerve is being strained
to procure the necessary money; it reassures
the brigands, and makes them feel
that the authorities are not being invoked
to their detriment. Leroux is planning a
very daring coup, and at present he is nota
little troubled as to whether Matteo's
murder may affect his combinations. It

has already made so much stir in the city
that there can he little doubt of the intelligence
very speedily reaching Patroceni's
ears, and, as the police-agent shrewdly
guessed, the loss of a trusted confederate in
Naples might alter the Count's proceedings
in many ways.

In spite of all his astuteness, Leroux had
not got as much out of Giovanni as he
expected. This was due partly to the
police-agent's fears of pushing his questioning
too far, and thereby scaring so shy a
fish, and partly to Giovanni having had
some reticence literally knocked into his
head. The operation might have been
severe, but it had undoubtedly been effectual,
and Giovanni was now very guarded
when speaking of the Count. Leroux was
right in one conjecture ; intelligence of the
murder speedily reached the ■ camp, but,
beyond Pietro, no one had the slightest idea
of the truth. As for the Count, he was not

even aware that Giovanni was alive ; he had
never seen him since he struck him down,
nor had he been told of his recovery.
Pietro alone, of all the bandits, was aware
of the revengeful feelings Giovanni had
entertained towards the dead man.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER V.

PATROCENI PUZZLED.

When Wheldrake got Chisel's note telling
him of the murder he at once showed it to
Glanfield, and the two commenced to talk
the matter over.

"I don't see," he observed, " how this
can affect our business, hut it may ; this
man I know is connected with the brigands
indeed, he had much to do with my own
capture. As you know, I was kidnapped at
his house ; and I heard him give evidence
before the Count as to a ruffian called
Giovanni's drunkenness. It was to this
Giovanni that I owe being made prisoner.

In his cups I drew him out as to what
Patroceni was ; and the Count told me himself
that I might thank my thirst for knowledge
for bringing me here. I had learnt
too much to be left at liberty."

I can hardly say I have seen this innkeepers'
replied Glanfield. " A horseman
passed us on the road just before we fell in
with our friends here, and Hamilton told
me afterwards it was the proprietor of the
Pavilion. As for this Giovanni, I have
never seen him at all."

And are never likely to do so now,"
interposed Wheldrake. " Patroceni, as a
punishment for his intoxication, dealt him a
blow with the butt end of his pistol that I
should think sent him straight to the otherworld.
At all events, he was carried away
for dead."

Well," replied Glanfield, " we can t be
suspected of having anything to do with it.
It is a clear alibi for al] of us except hamilton;
and, though I look upon him as
f2

quite capable of snatching at anything in
the way of money, I don't think he is likely
to go in for murdering an innkeeper. Some
of that man Giovanni's relations, I should
think, have settled an old score against
Matteo. They would, doubtless, hear that
he had caused the death of their interesting
relation."

"Everything seems going on all right
according to this," said Wheldrake, as he
once more glanced at Chisel's note, "but
they are excessively slow. I suppose hamilton
is really doing his best ?"

"As I said before," rejoined Glanfield,
when they've once run rogues never stand
them again, but I believe he is running
straight this time. Remember, this is a
country where they always take plenty of
time to do everything. That raising money
at very short notice means paying proportionately
long interest. I once heard a
great financial agent accustomed to finding
the means for many a black Monday, say,

when two of his clients of the plunging
school had run a dead-heat, and, not content
with the very heavy stakes they had had in
the first go, backed their opinions again
with renewed obstinacy, — I heard him say,
on being appealed to as to which he thought
would win the decider, — e Don't ask me, I
shall have ten thousand to find on Monday
whichever way it is, and that is enough forme
to think about ! "

A very instructive anecdote, Glanfield,"
said Sir Jasper, laughing, who had approached
them unobserved just in time to
catch this little illustration. " I recollect
the case ; and, if such an expert as you are
alluding to thought there would be a
difficulty in getting that sum in London for
two such clients as his, we can't expect but
that in Naples the difficulties of raising
such a much larger amount will be very
much greater. We have seen nothing of
our host, Mr. Wheldrake, since you interfered
with his arrangements."

This was a sort of extension of the olive-branch
on Sir Jasper's part. He was willing
to treat Wheldrake somewhat more cordially
than he had done of late. The gutta
caveat lapide had gradually told upon Sir
Jasper. His daughter his sister, and Cranfield
persistently affirmed Wheldrake's innocence
; and, though he was not convinced,
nor the least reconciled to the idea of any
marriage between Maude and Wheldrake,
still he wished for past times to be on a
more friendly footing with the young man.

But Cyril had no idea of resuming relations
with the baronet on that platform.
He could not pretend to be on amicable
terms with one who could entertain such a
doubt of his honour as Sir Jasper made no
scruple of admitting still possessed him, and
his response was cold and measured.

"You do not approve of my tactics, Sir
Jasper. I am sorry for it. Much more
satisfactory to you, I should have thought,
than the business resting in my hands."

The baronet immediately drew himself
up. He was not prepared to find his overtures
so coldly responded to. His observation
had been simply the prelude to more
genial converse than had passed between
them of late ; but it was very possible fora
proud man like "Wheldrake to interpret it
as a sarcastic gibe at his having interfered
at all in the ordering of things.

Our worthy friends here were on the
drink again last night, so Jackson tells me,"
observed the baronet, quietly ignoring
Wheldrake's reply. u I should think, like
the Saxons, they would awake to their
Hastings some fine morning. If the Neapolitan
police had the slightest enterprise
they would find very little difficulty in cap-turning
these fellows."

Then all I can say is it is devoutly to
be hoped they will continue to want enterprise,"
said Glanfield. " I take it to capture
Patroceni and our friends here is a cut above
any man they have got amongst them. I

fancy that these beggars would fight under
the Count, and that moreover as a preliminary
his Excellency would shoot the balance
of his prisoners."

What ! supposing that an attack took
place upon him from no breach of faith on
our part ? " said Sir Jasper.

You see he would not have time to look
into that. We should find ourselves in the
forfeit list and struck out of all engagements.
"

We must take our chance," said Sir
Jasper. " But the carelessness of the lookout
kept by these fellows absolutely invites
a police raid on the place. They might have
Patroceni and all these fellows bound and
trussed like turtles without firing a shot or
losing a life.

"Now, baronet," said Glanfield, laughing,
u I know where your inspiration comes from.
I can see old Jackson's finger all through
that idea. That blessed old idiot only sees
one-half of the question. He sees a good

many of these fellows swallow a lot of wine,
and lie clown to sleep. But they are a long
way off the intoxicated state he imagines
them in; while their sentries, although
they don't act like regular soldiers, have
got their eves pretty widely open. I've
wandered ah out the camp at all hours, and
know it. Take my word, if the police make
a dash at our friends here, you'll see an uncommon
pretty fight — that is, should the
Count not resort to that preliminary measure
I think probable."

Sir Jasper said nothing ; he was so weary
of inaction that had he not been hampered
by his daughter and sister he would have
ursred a dash for freedom in the teeth of the
cooler counsels of Jim Glanfield. " I suppose
there is no further news from Naples?"
he inquired at last.

Yes ; Wheldrake heard everything was
going on all right this morning ; but it is a
tedious business."

Glanfield did not think it necessary to

mention anything about Matteo's murder to
the baronet. He had no knowledge of the
innkeeper, and it would, therefore, interest
him but little. Nor was it easy to see how
it concerned any of them. Yet Wheldrake
had seemed to think it rni^ht.

Here Maude and Mrs. Fuller ton interrupted
the conversation.

"We are discussing, Mr. Glanfield," said
the vivacious widow, "the charms of this
mountain residence; it was delightful at
first," — a savage grunt of dissent from Sir
Jasper, — "but it is beginning to get a wee
bit monotonous now. We pine for our
maids, and I am sure you must all be as
tired of our gowns as we are."

"The circumstances are trains:, but I
shall always stick to it that you are the
best "

"No, Mr. Glanfield, I won't have it,"
interposed Mrs. Eullerton, quietly. " I know
exactly what you are going to say. Best
anything you like, but not groomed."

Best turned-out woman I know'

That's painfully true' replied Mrs.
Fullerton, gravely. "Very much turned
out, Maude dear, are we not ? But it's on
the mountain-side and a good many miles
from civilisation. You need not mock us
for all that. I know I'm a perfect guy, but
you can't expect a woman to be anything
else whose maid is leagues away from her.
Do you think we shall have to stay here
much longer r "

I was just telling Sir Jasper that "Sheldrake's
latest news is that everything is
progressing favourably. But we can learn
nothing more definite than that."

It really is to be hoped," said Maude,
that our captivity will not last very much
longer. It is getting very awkward in the
matter of dress, you know."

'• Really," rejoined Glanfield, laconically;
had to wash my own shirt yesterday, you
know, and I can't say it does me credit.
Looks worse than when I began."

Matteo's tragical end had affected Patron
in a way neither Leroux nor hamilton
had foreseen. The Count was puzzled ;
he had no theory whatever as to the cause
of the crime. He most certainly did not
suspect Hamilton, nor was it possible for
him to suspect the real culprit, whom he did
not even know to be alive. With what
object had the innkeeper been assassinated ?
Obviously not for plunder, for his informants
were very precise on that point, saying
that no property of any kind had been
touched. The Count was considerably put
out about it, if only for this reason : Matte o
was one of the shrewdest and most trusted
agents he had in the city, one whom it
would be hard to replace. That it could
mean any menace to himself he thought
very improbable ; but the Count was much
too old and practised not to be suspicious
of even a chance blow aimed at one of his
instruments. He did not understand this,
and, like most men whose lot it has been to

be much hunted, had more dread of the
mysterious than clearly defined danger. He
had received no certain news from hamilton
about the ransom as yet. hamilton
indeed had only sent one communication
through Matteo, which had
been pretty much to the same effect as
those that Leroux had despatched in Chisel's
writing to Wheldrake, namely, that all arrangements
were made, but must take a few
days to conclude.

"It is no use," mused Patroceni, "and
there is no one I can trust. I have no one
with brains enough to look into this thing
for me. I must know why one of my emissaries
is slain. Half my power round Naples
would be gone if it was not known that it is
dangerous to meddle with Patroceni's followers.
If the police don't find Matteo's
murderer I will. He'll fare no better in
my hands than in theirs, and probably make
a much quicker ending of it. No. There's
only one thing for it, I must go into Naples

myself. I'll start at daybreak tomorrow
morning. "

This was not so hazardous as it might
sound. It has been before remarked that
the Count was a man cunning in disguise.
He had gone freely about the city under
divers personating ; but it was only of late
that he and his followers had taken refuge
in the woods above Amain, and it was only
their last exploit that had attracted the
attention of the police to their being there.
During the two or three previous years, the
Count and his followers had infested districts
somewhat remote from Naples, and
had only migrated upon finding they had
made those districts too hot to hold them.
The Count had always had his spies in
Naples — indeed, he had spies pretty generally
through the country. Many of these
were his old political associates, who still
kept up brisk communication with each
other with the hope that the whirligig of
time might bring to them another chance of

snatching at the supreme power; and all of
these recognised his Excellency as one of
the most sagacious and daring leaders they
had ; so that between his brigandage and
his Carbonari-ism the Count was kept well
informed of what went on in most of the
leading cities of Italy.

That Patroceni, if recognised, would be
arrested, need scarcely be said ; but the
Count had quite as much confidence in his
powers of impersonation as Leroux, and had
more than once smoked his cigarette under
the noses of the police, with a handsome
reward offered for his apprehension. The
Count was a man of decision — no sooner
had he made up his mind than he sent for
his lieutenant.

Sarini," he said, as that worthy limped
into the tent, " I must know the rights of
Matteo's death. I intend that whoever took
his life shall pay for it with his own.
Nothing but fear of swift retribution keeps
people loyal to us. We have to trust those

who would sell us if they dared. I shall go
into Naples myself, and see what I can
make of it."

"Will it not be dangerous, Excellent,
after our recent capture ?"

"I don't think, my old comrade," rejoined
Patroceni, with a sarcastic smile, " that
either you or I ever recked much of that.
You will stay here in command, and I
know I can trust you, if anything happens
to me, to exact retribution for it."

Most assuredly. Let me hear that you
are a prisoner, and your release shall be the
condition of our captives' freedom; let me
hear of your death and I will shoot them
every one, women and all, with my own
hand. I've followed you now, through
storm and sunshine, for twenty-five years.
You need not fear but what I'll stand to
you still."

"No, my old comrade," rejoined the
Count, and as he spoke there was a gleam
of softness, rarely seen in Patroceni' s keen,

cold eyes. " I know I can trust you ; you
are true as steel. It is not very likely
that I shall fall into the hands of the
police. If I do, you must do the best
you can for me; but at all events insist
upon having a note in my handwriting
before you come to terms. Don't be precipitate
; but, old friend, do cot let them
send Patroceni across the Styx unattended. ,,

A fierce glance of intelligence flashed
across Sarini's face at these words. He,
like his chief, was a man of education, and
thoroughly understood the allusion.

"Never fear, Excellent," he replied.
If it is your fate to take passage in
old Charon's boat I'll see that you have
company across the river."

VOL. III.

CHAPTER VI.

THE DUMB PEDLAR.

The Golden Bush had no more constant
habitues than Giovanni and Herr Stein.
To the bandit it represented the principal
attraction of his dav. To his coarse, sensual
nature the chief delights of this world were
centered in eating and drinking, and, it
may be, gambling, which, now he was in
Naples, rather took the form of buying
tickets in the lottery. There was no place
in which he could indulge the former of
these propensities so much at his ease as at
this quiet tavern to which the police agent

had introduced him, Again, Giovanni had
very few acquaintances in Naples, and under
the present circumstances shrank from
making any. He was not a man, although
gregarious in his disposition, likely to attract
strangers — far from it. They, as a rule,
repelled the advances of the swart, ruffianly-looking
bravo. He detested solitude, not
that he was suffering in the least from that
remorse which is so often pictured to us.
An imaginative man of the higher order of
intelligence may suffer agonies when in his
solitary hours he is brought face to face
with the memory of his crime, but the lower
organizations of Giovanni's type are no
more troubled by such recollections than a
wild beast. It was simply that he wearied
of his own company, and looked forward to
this mid day meal with Leroux as the pleasantness
part of the twenty-four hours. He
had no idea at present of leaving the city.
He was far too well satisfied with his present
quarters, and the money he obtained from
g2

Leroux made it no necessity for him to
return to the hill side. He hated work, but
he disliked starvation more, and it was this
originally that had been the cause of his
turning bandit.

That Leroux should be as constant to
their daily tryst as he could manage may
easily be conceived. It was his sole opportunity
of communicating with the captives ;
his sole chance of obtaining any information
as to what the brigands were about. And
the police-agent was wonderfully keen about
carrying out a pet scheme of his own, which,
should it prove successful, would result in
the capture of Patroceni and all his band.

But the best-laid schemes of mice and
men, as Burns tells us, often go amiss ; and
there was this little drawback to Leroux' s
project — that any failure would probably
cost the captives their lives. But the
anguine police-agent, although quite aware
of this risk, would not permit himself to
think of failure, and unluckily did not take

into his counsels those principally concerned.


The pair were seated at their customary
table, and Giovanni in full enjoyment of
his meal.

I suppose," said Leroux, " you have
spot no news for mv friend ? "

"Not yet," replied Giovanni; "the time
is too short, Signor Stein. They could not
possibly have brought a reply from the
camp by this."

Evident from this speech that Giovanni
has been tolerably confidential of late about
his connection with the brigands. He still
refuses to admit that he is of them, but
makes no secret to his dear friend Signor
Stein that he is on friendly terms with a
good many of them, and knows his Excellency
Count Patroceni himself very well.
In good truth he might well say that, being
little likely to forget his Excellency so long
as there is breath in his body. Haughty,
cold, cynical, and stern as the Count habitually

was with his followers, there were
times when, like all great commanders, he
would unbend. Napoleon, when things
went well, would jest with the veterans of
the Grand Army. Patroceni, in like manner,
would occasionally condescend to drink,
smoke, and gamble with his followers ; and,
much as they looked up to him for his
dauntless courage and subtle intellect, it
may be doubted whether they did not hold
him in still higher reverence for his capabilities
as a card-player. When he did join
in the play it was generally a bad time for
his followers. The Count was one of the
finest artists in Europe at compelling fortune
at any game of chance.

No," rejoined Leroux, "I suppose there
has hardly been time ; but our client, you
see, is anxious. He will have it that the
tragedy in the Villa del Realee may probably
affect the treatment of his friends. It is in
vain I point out to him that the murderer of
that luckless innkeeper can have nothing to

say to Count Patroceni. Quite impossible,
don't you think so ? "

"Quite impossible," re-echoed Giovanni;
as if a man like his Excellency would care
what happened to such scum as Matteo."

Leroux shot a keen glance at the speaker
as he rejoined, " His — ah — what did you
call him ? — ah ! Excellency, meaning, I suppose,
Count Patroceni, was not likely to
know anything of a man like that unfortunate.
Still I have heard that these brigand-chiefs
have agents under all sorts of disguises.
But you know, Signor Giovanni,
what tales people will tell of a man like —
like his Excellency. By the way, I didn't
know that Count Patroceni went by that
name."

Yes, he does, amongst those that serve
him. His followers hold him far higher
than this new king who has just been pitch-forked
on to the throne. I don't understand
these things myself, but we all think

his Excellency and his friends are the proper
men to govern us."

"And who are all?" inquired Leroux*
quietly.

Rather an awkward question this. Giovanni
was speaking with that laxity characteristic
of much higher intelligences than
his own. A tendency to state loosely " that
every one says so," meaning yourself and
about a score of your acquaintances, is a
weakness very prevalent, which has led to
much perversion of history. Leroux's question
was an interrogatory eminently calculated
to confuse a man like Giovanni.

"All!" he rejoined; "why, everybody!
Who are all ? Why, all the people you
meet round about ! Why do we call him
his Excellency ? Well, because he is his
Excellency. Why do people call you Signor
Stein ? "

Ah, true, true," replied Leroux. " I am
very stupid. We are naturally called by

oar names." Or, be thought to himself,
what we give out to be our names ; taken,
too, in great measure by the world to be
what we choose to label ourselves."

No ; his Excellency," resumed Giovanni,
"is his Excellency because he was made soin
one of these numerous revolts we have
had, and which didn't come to anything.
I never heard, but 1 daresay they made
somebody his Majesty, and if his head is
not cut off he is no doubt walking about
somewhere. But the Count ! Ah ! they will
never catch him."

"Yes, everybody talks of how clever his
Excellency is."

Clever ! " replied Giovanni, in a low
whisper ; "he could walk straight through
the bureau of police without being detected
if he pleased. There's nothing he can't do.
There's nothing he don't know. And a man's
life is not worth a dish of macaroni who falls
under his displeasure ; and he is merciless,
ah ! so merciless, when he is offended."

As the last words, uttered in a low
tone, escaped the bandit's lips, a pedlar
entered the room, and, lifting his pack from
off his shoulders, seated himself at a table
adjoining, — a well-to-do pedlar apparently,
well-clad, and in appearance not of the
country. His hair was long and fair, and
he wore coloured spectacles, probably on
account of some weakness in his eyes ; for
his lithe wiry figure and general aspect by
no means indicated age — a muscular man of
medium height, and seemingly in his prime.
He summoned the waiter by the simple
process of rapping on the table, and having
glanced over the bill of fare indicated what
he wanted by pointing to it with his finger.
Nothing escaped the trained eye of Leroux,
and it was hardly likely that he would
overlook the preternatural taciturnity of the
new comer.

You have known cases, no doubt, of the
Count's relentlessness, Signor Giovanni,"
observed Leroux, carelessly.

Known ! " repeated the bandit, who had
by this, as usual, consumed a good deal of
wine. " I've done more than know; I have
seen. You will never mention it again,
Signor Stein; but I saw him send a man
out of the world one morning for no graver
offence than being overpowered with thirst
while engaged in his Excellency's business."


What ! " exclaimed the police-agent,
with well-assumed horror; "you surely do
not mean that Patroceni slew a man in cold
blood merely because he had found the
wine-cup too great a temptation ? "

If he did not kill him," rejoined Giovanni,
" it was simply because his day had
not come. He was carried away for dead."

What unheard-of ferocity ! " exclaimed
Leroux. tl Such an act of cruelty as that is
sure to recoil on the perpetrator. I know
little of the world, my excellent friend ;
but I should imagine that it would be dangerous

to Count Patroceni that the victim
of such barbarity escaped with his life."

wc I don't understand' rejoined Giovanni,
curtly.

Simply this — that resentment of injury
is implanted in the breasts of all mankind.
Men are apt to be implacable with either
undeserved or excessive punishment. A
man who had suffered such unheard-of
violence for so slight an offence would be
dangerously likely to avenge it. Of course,"
continued Herr Stein, as he threw himself
back in his chair and lit a fresh cigarette,
if he were not a man, but simply a cringing
spaniel, his submitting to it is easy of
comprehension."

Giovanni writhed a little uneasily under
the words of this quiet, elderly citizen. The
bandit had all the contempt for the dwellers
in towns characteristic of the hill-men in all
nations, characteristic indeed of the country
everywhere. Your cockney may look

down upon the yokel when he meets him in
the streets of the metropolis — he may have
the best of it there. Flurried by the crowd
and scenes he is unaccustomed to, the countryman
in his confusion bows down before
the arrogance of his city brother ; but, for
all that, the denizen of the fields, the man
who is face to face with nature, who is conversant
with the song of the throstle, with
the rustle of the trees and the bloom of the
hedges, has in his heart a supreme contempt
for the dweller in the city, who knows
nothing about the cheery melody of the
hounds, the crack of the freeholder over
the autumnal stubble, or the very meaning
of the May-fly being on.

The bandit said nothing ; he was slow of
thought, and the idea of cherishing resentment
against Patroceni had never as yet
crossed his mind. He regarded the Count
as so far above him that he no more thought
of revenging himself for the punishment he
had received than a serf would have done

in England in the days of the Saxons. With
his equal like Matteo it had been different ;
but his Excellency, ah ! their very lives
were in his hands, and yet here was this
quiet, elderly wine-merchant, who apparently
looked upon it that such cruelty would
naturally be resented. He was rather stung
by Leroux's speech, as the crafty police-agent
had intended he should be. He did
not like that this townsman should appear
to think him deficient in spirit, to fancy
that he was a man who submitted meekly
to injuries. Still, the idea that he should
ever have lifted his hand against the Count
seemed preposterous.

Leroux watched him silently : he guessed
pretty well what was passing through Giovanni's
mind, and wondered whether it was
possible to blow that spark of resentment,
that he felt he had kindled, into a flame.

You don't understand," growled the
bandit at last, quite oblivious that he was
admitting that he himself had been the

sufferer. '* Giovanni would avenge his
wrongs promptly on any other, but with his
Excellency our lives are his, to do as he
wills with."

At these words Leroux fancied that he
saw the pedlar at the adjoining table turn
his head towards them. The man had, upto
this, been apparently absorbed in his own
humble repast, and the police-agent had
noticed his extreme taciturnity. The few
directions that it was requisite for him to
give the waiters he had done by signs. A
thought struck Leroux. Suddenly rising
from his seat he crossed to the pedlar, and,
with a courteous bow, proffered him a
cigarette. The man took it, but in answer
to Leroux' s, " Pray permit me to offer you
a cigarette," he expressed his acknowledgment
of the civility automatically.

Then, seeing the perplexed look on
Leroux's face, he shook his head, touched
his mouth two or three times with his hand,
and again shook his head.

Why, I believe he is dumb !" exclaimed
the police-agent.

As the exclamation escaped him, the
pedlar produced a pencil from his vest, and,
taking up the bill of fare, hastily scribbled
on the back, — " I cannot speak, but am
much obliged for your kindness."

Patroceni — for of course it was he — had
assumed dumbness the moment he perceived
Giovanni. He did not know who the
police agent might be, but he had long
since learnt to mistrust all chance acquaintance.
Further, there was Giovanni. He
had not the slightest fear of that worthy
penetrating his disguise, and after Its last
speech no fear of his intentions of betraying
him; but he had no faith in Giovanni's
discretion, and thought if the bandit recognised
his voice he would show an astonishment
that might arouse the attention of
the spectators. Another thing, too, that
flashed across the Count's mind — Who was
this sober-going citizen with whom Giovanni,

the hog, had contracted such an
apparent intimacy? He knew, none letter,
what Giovanni was in a social point of
view — a dull, stupid drunkard, blindly devoted
to him, Patroceni, like a huge mastiff,
but without the brute's intelligence. It
was hardly likely that a man of some
culture, such as the donor of the cigarette
undoubtedly was, should think it worth his
while to cultivate Giovanni without an
object.

Leroux had resumed his seat ; the Count
smoked on in silence, with his ears keenly
alert to catch further conversation; but
the talk between the police-agent and his
guest languished. It was not that Leroux
in the least despaired of gradually inflaming
the mind of the bandit against Patroceni,
but he saw that it would take more time
than he could give to it. The pseudo-pedlar
at length picked up his pack, bowed
to Leroux, and took his departure.

A great mistake ! " muttered Patroceni,

VOL. III. H

when he found himself in the street. " Why
did I trust to a blow in dealing with such a
thick-skulled brute as that? I ought to
have shot him, as I originally meant. He
is staunch enough at present, but I've no
doubt his elderly friend is an emissary of
the police. Granting Giovanni remains
loyal, as he doubtless intends, it is not
difficult to turn a clumsy drunkard like that
inside out. I wonder whether that very
polite gentleman had the slightest suspicion
as to who I really was ? As well for him,
perhaps, he hadn't; if he were connected
with the police he might have made a
premature attempt to earn the five hundred
pounds offered for my apprehension, which
would have resulted in another tragedy ina
place of public entertainment. Can hamilton
be playing me false ? There's coquetting
with the police on the part of someone."


CHAPTER VII.

AN UNWELCOME VISITOR.

The more lie thought over it the more convinced
was Patroclus that Giovanni's new
acquaintance had sinister designs of some
sort, and now the Count had the loss of
Matteo at once brought home to him. The
chances were that the dead innkeeper could
have thrown some light upon this mysterious
intimacy — at all events, he was the very
man to discover who was Giovanni's new
friend. True, that was a matter the Count
could clear up for himself ; but, for one
thing, he had no intention of being more
than a day in Naples ; he had other things
h 2

to look to, and he would hardly have the
time to make this discovery for himself.
And yet, if the police had got hold of Giovanni,
the sooner he was ordered hack to
the mountains the better. A very unsafe
adherent, thought the Count, to go through
the ordeal of cross-examination. He had
been very much astonished at the man's reappearance;
neither seeing nor hearing anything
of him since he struck him down he
had never doubted but that Giovanni was
dead ; and he could not help thinking that
it would have been better if he had never
recovered. It was impossible to say what
admissions might be drawn from this the
very dullest of all his followers. So far the
Count's inquiries concerning the death of
Matteo had no results ; there was no theory
as to who the murderer was broached in the
city. Conjecture was at fault, and, except
Leroux, no one in Naples had a suspicion as
to his entity.

The Count was struck with this ; he had

expected to find the name of the supposed
assassin in all men's mouths. The story of
the murder undoubtedly was; Carlo had done
nothing but describe the appearance of the
house ever since they broke into it ; but as
to tv ho the actual murderer was no one professed
knowledge. Still, though there was
nothing to throw light upon Matteo's fate,
the Count thought it just as well that he
had visited the city. There was, very possibly,
danger to be feared from Giovanni's
indiscretion, and the sooner that worthy rejoined
his comrades the safer it would befor
them all. And then Patroceni made up
his mind that he would call upon hamilton.
He, at all events, would hear
direct how the negotiations for the ransom
were progressing, and would caution the
Captain against any attempt at foul play.

Hamilton's astonishment was considerable
when he was informed that there was
somebody wanting to see him. The first inquiry

was, naturally, as to what manner of
man this might be; and, upon being told that
he was apparently a Jew pedlar, Hamilton
was about promptly to decline the interview
when it suddenly occurred to him that
this might be a messenger from Patronise
had heard nothing from the camp since
he left, for he knew nothing of Chisel's
correspondence, Leroux having cautioned
the valet against showing Wheldrake's
notes to any one, pointing out they might

cost his master his life should they fall

«/

into the hands of the police. So, after
turning it over for a minute or two in his
own mind, he ordered the stranger to be
shown up.

The pedlar made a low bow as he entered
the room, and, without speaking, proceeded
to open his pack. "No, thank you, my
good fellow ' exclaimed Hamilton, " I
don't want anything."

The pedlar met this with a deprecatory

shrug of his shoulders, and continued the
unpacking of his box. But Harnmerton
suddenly became conscious of a quick,
meaning glance, an impatient knitting of
the brows, and a slight but rapid motion of
his head in the direction of the waiter.

"That will do, thank you," said the
Captain to that latter functionary. " Well,
as you've come up I will look at your
rubbish, but you must not be disappointed
if I don't buy."

Certainly not," rejoined the Count, in
his natural tones, as the door closed. " I
am selling, it is true, but not such gewgaws
as these ; it's men's lives I deal in."

The Count ! " exclaimed Harnmerton.
Deal in men's lives, forsooth ! You are
juggling with your own when you dare to
call upon me at an hotel in Naples."

I don't see that I run any danger,"
rejoined Patroceni, quietly. " It isn't that
I place the slightest faith upon your honour.
But, my friend, my mere apprehension

would fill graves on the mountain. I don't
suppose you care much about Wheldrake
and Glanfield, but you would hardly like to
have Sir Jasper's blood upon your head,
much less to endanger the lives of the
ladies." '

You surely don't mean to say " exclaimed
Hamilton.

I merely mean that my wolves are hard
to hold," interposed the Count. " If you

knock the driver off the box you mustn't

*/

be surprised if the horses get out of hand.
Now, what have you got to tell us ? "

I should have communicated with you
before," replied Hamilton, "but you have
perhaps not heard of the murder of that
unfortunate Matteo ? "

Yes ; what about it ? "

I know no more than does all Naples,
that he was brutally slain by some one unknown
the other night."

What do the police think about it ? "
inquired Patroceni, sharply.

How can I tell ? You don't suppose
I've seen anything of them. You may not
believe me, but I've been loyal to my mission
and carefully kept out of their way.
The money will be ready for you in about a
week now. I would have sent you word
had I only known how."

m

No ! n said the Count, sternly. " I know
you too well to put faith in you. Pool ! do
you suppose that I really permitted you to
draw lots as to which of you should come
to Naples ? I did ; but took excellent care
as to who should be the winner. I told
you once before that people who quarreled
with me generally came to grief. Let me
find any treachery on your part, and though
you will think yourself beyond my reach
you will find yourself mistaken."

Count Patroceni," replied Hamilton,
hastily. " I tell you I am honestly keeping
faith with you. You feel you can insult me
with impunity while you hold the lives of
those dear to me in the hollow of your hand .

Once let them be free and you will give me
the reparation one gentleman usually accords
another."

Now this was a very pretty defiance as it
stood, but it had a palpable blot in it. The
Count's reply was obvious. His lips curled
as he said :

One is under no obligation to go outwith
cardsharpers."

Hamilton sprang to his feet, and for a
moment seemed about to throw himself
upon Patroceni. Quick as lightning the
Count drew a poignard from his vest.

Stand back," he said, authoritatively,
unless you would die before your time.
Like Wheldrake, I have a presentiment,
and that is that you will fall by my hand ;
at present remember you are an ambassador,
and that your person, like that of all
ambassadors, is sacred. Bring your negotiations
here to a conclusion, and then it will
be time enough to talk about reparation ;
though, even then I should require security

that you did not come to the ground attended
by & posse of gendarmes. 55

For a moment Hamilton's frame literally
shook with passion. Then, recognising how
completely he was in this man's power, he
gulped down his wrath with a tremendous
effort.

You have come to Naples," he said at
last, in tones that still vibrated slightly
from anger, " apparently to insult me. You
are too strong— I am at your mercy now ;
but the time will come "

An excellent burst of melodrama, my
friend," interposed Patroceni, contemptuously.
"Exit, upper entrance, right,
scowling and muttering. As I told you
before, when the time does come I've an
idea it will be unfortunate for you. At
present I think I have no more to say,
except this — I shall send an envoy in to see
you this day week, when, I trust, you will
be able to bring things to a satisfactory
conclusion. Had you and Wheldrake not

interfered with my engagements I should
have been content to receive the ransom
close to Naples. Now you must bring the
money to the camp, and you must bring
it in person. Wheldrake I could have
trusted ; rightly or wrongly, I distrust you,
and your own life must be security for my
want of faith in you. The agreed sum
once paid, the whole party shall be conducted
in perfect safety to the scene of their
capture. There carriages will be awaiting
to convey you to Naples, and one and
all, including yourself, need fear no further
molestation unless you provoke it." And
with these words the Count picked up his
pack and departed.

Hamilton paced the room for some time
after his visitor left him. He ground his
teeth with impotent rage at the indignities
he had been forced to submit to. What
evil star had ever led him to cross this
man's path in life ? Everything had gone
wrong with him ever since the encounter

with Patroceni. He did not reflect that it
was his own unfair play at the card-table
that had placed him in the Count's power,
that it was his own rascally scheme to ruin
Wheldrake which had led to their all
coming abroad, and so fall into the hands
of the brigands. That the Count carried
too many guns for him Hamilton was
now painfully aware. He was in the toils
of a very superior scoundrel to himself; in
the hands of a man of keen brain and iron
nerve. He recognised it was futile to
struggle against his antagonist, and, as his
wrath quieted down, that the best thing he
could do, this matter of the ransom once
satisfactorily arranged, was to leave Italy,
and devoutly hope that Patroceni might
never cross his path again — a man, there
was good hope, that might find his " career
of industry " cut short before long. Brigand
chiefs of his calibre sooner or later
fell victims to the prices offered for their
apprehension; and, though Patroclus's ascendency

over his followers was marvellous,
and their awe of him apparently
immeasurable, still greed of gold would,
probably, ere long induce one of his followers
to betray him. If the annals of
history afford numerous instances of wondrous
fidelity in spite of all temptation,
cases are also rife in which a heavy reward
has not failed to produce the traitor it was
designed to. And then, once again, Hani-
merton grimly reverted to the incredible
fool he had been to continue his intimacy
with Patroceni. After coming to terms
with him, and disgorging his winnings at
Homburg, he ought to have left without
beat of drum. But no. Lured by the
insane idea that in Wheldrake he had
snared a pigeon worth plucking, he lingered
on, and an introduction to English society
had been the price of the Count's silence
about his mal practices at the card-table.

CHAPTER VIII.

A BOLD RESOLUTION.

M. Leroux stands very much in the position
of a very fine whist-player whose game
is considerably too scientific for his partner.
The police-agent has most thoroughly
hoodwinked all concerned in the elaborate
game that he is playing. Chisel, Giovanni,
Hamilton, and even Pietro, Giovanni's
confederate, have no suspicion of who he
really is or what end he is aiming at. The
one man of all others that he would fain
keep in ignorance of his proceedings
happens not only to have arrived at a suspicion

of his connection with the police,
but also to have formed a misty idea that

m

Leroux is pursuing a course inimical to
his interests. The more Patroceni reflects
upon his interview with Hamilton, the
more he looks back upon Giovanni's intimacy
with that elderly stranger at the " Golden
Bush," the more convinced he is that either
by design or accident these people are incommunication
with the police. As regards
Hamilton, he had, so far, no evidence to
go upon ; but that the elderly gentleman
who fraternised with Giovanni was what in
his own vernacular is termed a " mouton "
he had no doubt. What should he do ?
He had meant to return to the camp as
soon as he had solved the problem of
Matteo's murder. He had done nothing
towards it as yet, and already saw that it
was one of those mysteries not cleared up
in a day or two. In the meantime he
would walk up to the Villa del Realee and
look at the Pavilion. Not probable that he

would be allowed to go inside it, not probable
that it would afford much information,
even if he did so. All traces of the
murder had, doubtless, been removed by
this, and he would in all likelihood only
have the looking at a closed tavern for his
pains.

He was right in his conjecture. Still
there was a knot of idlers there, gazing at the
barred door and closed shutters as if the
walls would reveal the secret they held.
Amongst these loungers a face suddenly
caught the Count's attention. " A man I've
seen before," he muttered. " I never forget
a face. Where on earth have I seen
his ? An Englishman, too, evidently, by his
dress. A face I've seen more than once ;
but where ? Ah, I have it ! It is Signor
Wheldrake's servant. He loaded for him
that day when we shot those covers by the
brook at Wrottsley, the — the — ah, Hangers.
Waited, too, every day at dinner. I should
like to tell him his master is quite well,"

VOL. III. I

murmured the Count, with a smile; "butin
the exuberance of his spirits he would
probably go off and tell the police I said so,
which would lead to unpleasant complications."


The Count shouldered his pack, and was
about to leave the gardens when his attention
was suddenly arrested by seeing Chisel
touch his hat respectfully to some one. He
turned round, and saw the valet stroll away
in deep conversation with the same elderly
gentleman who was so intimate with Giovanni.


To a man like Patroceni this was a
revelation. He saw danger, he saw treachery
all around him. He knew nothing about
this old gentleman, had no idea what he
affected to be, what he described himself as,
but had no doubt whatever in his own mind
that he was an agent of the police. And
here he was in close communication with
Giovanni, with Wheldrake's servant, and in
all probability with Hamilton. No; he

would be in no hurry to leave Naples. It
was more important that he should sift this
treachery to the dregs than return to camp.
He saw no great danger in staying in the
city for two or three days longer, and keeping
a watch over things; he could trust
Sarini to keep strict ward over his captives,
and, should the authorities lay him by the
heels, to threaten dire retaliation if a hair of
his head was injured.

The veriest villains have as a rule some
staunch friend, and the Count and Sarini
had gone through so many stricken fields,
times of hardship, and deeds of blood together,
that their feeling for each other
was strong.

Sarini was perhaps the one man in whom
the Count felt he could rely unflinchingly.
His old comrade would be apt to become
classical, and, after tie manner of the
ancients, sacrifice some lives to his memory
should aught happen to him. Patroceni
i2

kept well away from Herr Stein and Chisel.
He was much too clever to give them an
opportunity of noticing him and had not
the slightest idea of appearing before them
again in his present costume.

With great caution and at considerable
distance he watched the pair for sometime.
They sat on one of the benches
overlooking the bay and talked earnestly
together for some few minutes. Then they
rose and left the gardens together, but
had not proceeded far before they parted —
the valet touching his hat with the greatest
respect, while the old gentleman bade him
adieu with kindly condescension.

Eor a moment the Count was puzzled.
Which was he to follow? It was only
for an instant. (i What does it matter,"
he muttered, " where that thick-headed
English servant lives ? There is no danger
to fear from him. No, no. That old gentleman
with [his silver-rimmed spectacles is

far more likely to be the cause of trouble.
Quite likely he sees as much over those
silver-rimmed glasses as I do through these
tinted ones of mine. Spectacles are regarded
as an aid to sight. They have another
attribute, not quite so generally
known— they are pretty nearly as good for
non-sighting other people. Spectacles, asa
matter of disguise, have never yet had
due appreciation."

Cautiously and afar did Patroceni follow
his quarry ; and if the police-agent could

have only known that for once in his life

*/

he, the tracked of men, was being tracked,
he would have experienced a new sensation.
Honestly, I think Leroux would really have
revelled in the situation ; he would have
felt like a crack ecarte player, who finds
himself opposed to a foeman worthy of his
steel ; engaged in a game, if agreed upon,
looked on as quite fair according to the
laws of the mountain, and also perfectly
recognised teste Bred Harte on the slopes of

California, namely, "As many cards up
your sleeve as you can contrive without
being found out." At length he saw Herr
Stein turn in at the door of the " Golden
Bush," and then Patroceni, with a low
laugh, made his way to his own quarters
in La Vicaria. This was just one of the
adventures that gave salt to his existence;
it was this that had made him a gamester,
a conspirator, aye, even a brigand. It was
this eternally pitting his head, his intellect,
against other men, that was to him the very
elixir of life. He exulted in this sort of
contest — what matter, it was a game of
heads, and in every sense of the word, too ;
his life the stake, and small profit to accrue
from the saving of it ! There are, and ever
will be, men of this kind — conspirators from
their youth up, who dream of power and
thrones as in centuries gone by men raved
of the philosopher's stone, or, later on, the
alchemists of the " golden secret."

Did they but know it — and both the

combatants in this game of strategy would
have felt deeply interested in the result ;
the one was staking his professional reputation,
the other his life ; and both were
thorough enthusiasts about all the intricacies
of such a contest as they were engaged
in. Still the Count had the advantage
: he already suspected the police of
being on his track, and was bent upon
clearing up who that elderly gentleman in
silver-rimmed spectacles might be. Leroux,
on his side, although quite aware of what
a clever adversary he had to combat, had
no idea that Patroceni was endeavouring
to discover his individuality, or, indeed,
that he was taking any other than his
habitual precautions against police interference
with his pursuits.

The thing that now puzzled the Count
was how he was to get speech with this
friend of Giovanni's without that worthy's
presence. As for fresh disguise that was
all easy enough. Agent of the police or

no, he felt no doubt but what he could
pass before that elderly customer of the
Golden Bush " without his having the
slightest conception that he was addressing
the dumb pedlar, upon whom he had bestowed
a cigarette only a few days before.
But the Count knew that Giovanni would
recognise him at once by his voice, and he
was too thoroughly aware of the awe in
which he was held by the lower class of
his followers not to know that the bandit
would be so startled as to inevitably betray
his discovery.

He supposed he must try the tavern again,
as he did not know where else as yet he
was likely to come across Giovanni's friend.
But he felt very little hope of obtaining such
an opportunity as he wanted there. He
felt pretty sure that Giovanni habitually
out-sat his companion. His one chance, he
thought, would be to follow this man when
he left, and trust to scraping an acquaintance
with him casually in the streets. But

how ? On what pretext ? Easy to address
him, no doubt, on a dozen excuses, but to
involve him in conversation there must be
something more than this. At a tavern it
would be easy, but in the streets — ah ! that
was a different matter.

The Count, in his room in La Vicaria,
pondered over this a good deal. It had to
be done, and, of course, he would do it.
He had managed many more difficult things
than this; but, at the same time, how it
was to be done on this occasion did not
exactly occur to him.

Patroceni smoked and smoked, and turned
this thing over in his mind. At last he
conceived an idea which, for audacity, was
quite worthy of his genius. He would turn
informer on himself ! He, Count Patroceni,
would profess to instruct the police how to
capture himself. He would cautiously consult
this old gentleman about how to put
himself in communication with the police,
guardedly admitting that he had some information

concerning the brigands in the
woods above Amain that he would be glad
to part with for a consideration. If he
was right in his conjecture that Giovanni's
new friend was an agent of the police he
would be pretty sure to tumble into that
trap, and in his thirst for further intelligence
would unwittingly disclose how much
he really knew.

The idea was bold ; it was Rob Roy in
the Tolbooth, with no Baillie Nicol Jarvis
or " Dugald Creature " to fall back upon
in case of need.

Now for disguise: that was easy and
obvious; he must be attired as one of the
peasants of those parts. " Then," thought
the Count, with a light laugh, "if I ama
little bit soft in the head it will perhaps
be all the more effective." Could a bystander
have overlooked both hands he
might have been very much puzzled to
predict whether the Count or the police-agent
would eventually be the winner ;

but about one thing he would have no
doubt, namely, that a very few days now
must bring them actively into collision.

Leroux and the Neapolitan police could
make nothing out of the murder in the
Villa del Realee. Whoever Matteo's assassin
had been he had done his work effectually
and left not a trace behind him.

That it was the work of one man only
they had come to the conclusion, on the
evidence of the broken glass picked up on
the floor of the parlour. It was clear that
these represented the fragments of only two
tumblers, and this the police held proof
that Matteo had entertained but one guest
upon that fatal night. This mattered little
to Leroux. Quite possible he might never
be able to prove it, but he had no doubt
whatever as to whom the real murderer was.

So far, indeed, he thought, it had been
rather an advantage to him; it had removed
one who seemed inclined to keep a vigilant
eye on his intimacy with Giovanni, and it

was absolutely necessary, for carrying out
Leroux's plans, that he should have unrestricted
intimacy with that unprepossessing
acquaintance. It was considerably past
midday when Leroux emerged from the
Golden Bush." His sitting with Giovanni
had been somewhat prolonged, for there
had been delicate negociations going on
between him and the bandit. It was
evident to Leroux, from the note that
Giovanni had brought him, that the murder
of Matteo had produced considerable stir
in the camp ; though nothing could be
more guarded than Wheldrake's laconic
reply. After the usual formula that they
were all well, but wearying of their captivity,
came the significant line — " We have
seen nothing of our host for two days,
though it is hardly likely the tragedy you
mention has aught to say to his absence."

This to Leroux meant much, as he understood
it. It told him that Patroceni had
left the camp. Now was the time for him

to execute his surprise, to play for his
great coup, to capture the camp, to carry
back the captives in triumph to Naples,
with the brigands handcuffed two and two
at the wheels of his chariot, and that done
to scour the country for their fugitive chief.
In pursuance of this design he had not
only without much difficulty persuaded
Giovanni to forward another closed letter
to Wheldrake, but also to forward another
basket of wine to his confederate Pietro.
About this last there had certainly been
some little argument — Giovanni, in the
openness of his heart and the plenitude of
his feelings, having at first declared that
he was quite capable of dealing with it
himself, and it was only when Herr Stein
had administered a long lecture upon the
necessity and advisability of keeping his
confederate in the brigands' camp in good
humour, supplemented with the threat of
the dejeuners being discontinued, that Giovanni
promised to yield to his wishes.

Having attained his end, but considerably
wearied by his task, with a sigh of relief
the police-agent rose, wished Giovanni good
day, and took his departure. Ere he had
gone far up the street he was accosted by
a peasant, who, in a vacant manner, asked
him where the police lived.

CHAPTER IX.

DIAMOND CUT DIAMOND."

Leroux stopped, and from behind his
glasses shot a keen glance at his questioner.
Nothing to be read in the rather troubled
dark eyes, no longer concealed by spectacles,
and the somewhat bewildered face
that met his gaze. " And what do you
want with the police ? " he inquired.

st I'm not used to crowds, and you see
I get dazed-like when I get amongst all
the houses and people in a big town. My
home is in the country, out there afoot
of the hills towards Amain."

Dear me ! " thought Leroux ; " a neighbour,
perhaps an acquaintance, of my good
friend Giovanni. I shall be on intimate
terms with all the country-side there before
long. " And you want to see the police ? "
he continued, aloud.

Yes ; it's hard to get a living on the
edge of the mountain, signor; the corn
won't grow, and then they tell me I'm not
very clever and don't know how to make
the most of our bit of land. And then,
signor, I've had bad luck with the goats
lately ; one or two of them have died, and
the others don't have kids as other people's
do. They tell me they are too old, but
I've no money to buy younger ones with."

But what on earth, my good man,
have the police got to do w T with all this ? "

I don't know ; but they tell me there
has been a great murder committed in the
city here, and that the police are offering
a reward to anybody who can give them
any information about it."

And you think you can ? " said Leroux.

No ; what should I know about it ? I
was miles away from Naples when it took
place; but if the police give money for
information of one sort I thought perhaps
they would give money for information of
another; and life is so hard, signor, and
money still harder to come by. Can you
tell me why it is that some men grow
rich and others grow poor ? "

The utter vacuous face of the speaker
completely baffled the shrewd police-agent.
He peered into his questioner's face over
his glasses as if he would read his very
soul, but saw nothing but a dreamy, faraway
look, as if his questioner was already
lost in speculation over the problem he
had propounded, and was quite oblivious of
the object which had brought him to
Naples.

61 Now, what information is it you have
to dispose of to the police ? " inquired
Leroux, after a considerable pause.

VOL. III. K

The peasant's face lit up with a cunning
smile as he rejoined —

"If I told you it would be no longer
mine to dispose of. You might sell it to
the police and forestall me."

I am going that way," replied Leroux,
"and will show you where the bureau is:
but you are quite right — keep what you
have got to tell to yourself. Only remember
this : you will have to give the
police some idea of what you wish to dispose
of, or else they will probably not think it
worth their while to listen to you."

It will be hard that ; for I have walked
a long way to try and turn an honest
penny. Listen ! " — and the speaker dropped
his voice almost to a whisper as he said —
It's something about the brigands."

I don't know, but I think that would
very possibly fetch its price," rejoined Le-rout.


"What do you think they would give ?
I could show them where they are, but

may be they wouldn't care to meddle with
them. There are a good many of them,
and they are well armed. It would be
more dangerous than hunting a single
man."

Once more Leroux shot a keen glance
at the speaker. Was there covered sarcasm
in his remark, or was it made in all innocence
? But not a trace of irony was to
be seen on the somewhat meaningless face.
Patroceni — for of course he it was — enjoyed
a singular faculty of being able to assume
(with the assistance of some slight " makeup
") a half-witted expression that had
done him infinite service before now.

If you can do that," replied Leroux,
I don't doubt but what you will be well
paid for it. Count Patroceni is said to be
swift and merciless in his revenge. If he
happened to escape you might find yourself
in considerable danger."

•'Life is so hard, signor," rejoined the
k2

peasant, doggedly. " I 'suppose to get
money one must risk something."

Leroux was rather puzzled what to do.
To go to the bureau of police with this
peasant would be to run the risk of confessing
his connection with them. He was
anxious to know T what this man had to tell.
It might amount to a mere nothing ; still,
he could not afford to neglect any opportunity
of obtaining knowledge concerning
Patroceni and his followers. For instance,
he knew nothing about their exact locality.
The woods above Amalfi were extensive,
impossible to surround, and it was quite
likely that, in scouring the woods in search
of their camp, to give them the alarm, and
on finally discovering it to find nothing but
the smouldering fires as evidence of its
late occupation. He was getting letters
conveyed to this camp ; he was getting wine
transmitted to it, but even when everything
was ripe for his grand coup he was painfully

conscious that he lacked a guide thither.
He had for some time built upon inducing
Giovanni to play that role. But he had of
late very great misgivings upon that subject.
Giovanni, in his greed for gold and wine,
saw no harm in assisting him to communicate
with the camp. But from whatever
motives, whether it was from fear or from
that innate sense of shame which forbids
such men to turn informer, he was evidently
staunch to his comrades. Quite clear that
if he suspected danger to them he would not
only instantly withdraw from this surreptitious
post that he was at present conducting,
but further give them due notice that the
authorities were on their track. He admitted
having had terrible punishment
dealt out to him by the Count ; punishment,
too, that he deemed his offence scarcely
warranted. But Leroux could see that he
was perfectly unswerving in devotion to his
chief, and that no gold would induce him to
play the part of Iscariot. Mechanically

Leroux strolled up in the direction of the
Villa del Realee, where the countryman
followed him, with all the apparent confidence
that a lost dog displays when meeting
a friend.

Ah, signor, this is grand," said the
peasant, as Leroux led the way into the
gardens. "Ah, the sea! It is beautiful.
I seldom see it, but I love it : not but what
I am fond of the woods too, and know them
as I shall never know the blue waters.
"Would you believe it, signor, I was never
afloat in my life."

"A happy solution of the difficulty,"
thought Leroux. " I dare not take him to
the bureau. What if I give him an hour in
the Bay ? Seated in the stern sheets of a
boat, while two fellows pull us about, one
can talk. Would you like to go on the
water ? " he suddenly exclaimed, aloud.

Oh, signor," cried the soi-disant peasant,
it is too much, but I should be afraid by
myself. These boatmen laugh at us country-folks,

I am told, and they are apt to be
rough with us. No, signor, I dare not trust
myself."

Nonsense, man ! " replied Leroux. " I
will go with you. We will smoke a cigarette
on the water this glorious afternoon. The
sun is dipping, and it is just the time to
enjoy it. You would have plenty of time
to trot up to the police-bureau afterwards.
As for his Excellency the Count Patroceni
and his friends, they will be doubtless
picnicking where you left them. Come."

With many protestations of delight the
peasant accepted the invitation, and the two
men left the gardens to procure a boat.

Two men pitted against each other like
two birds in a cockpit — spurred, too, for the
matter of that. Unarmed as they both
looked, a revolver lurked in the breast of
each of them. A few minutes and they
were gliding smoothly and swiftly across the
blue waters, heading towards Capri, albeit
with no intention of reaching that island.

They were out nominally for a row, but in
reality it was a duel between two subtle
intellects, each vigorously striving to squeeze
the brains of the other. The Count undoubtedly
started with odds in his favour.
He had a vague idea of his companion's
position, and naturally gave him credit for
being a shrewd, clever man. Leroux, on
the contrary, was quite in the dark about
his adversary, and, more unluckily still, was
grievously under-rating his brain-power.
Keen practised hand as the police-agent
was, Patroceni had so far imposed on him
that he regarded him as a simple countryman,
and if not an imbecile at all events
somewhat half-witted.

You know something of these brigands.
I daresay you've seen this Count Patroceni,
about whom all men are talking ? "

"May be I have, there's more see him
than wish to."

And more wishing to than can get speech
with him," rejoined Leroux. " I fancy, if

you can bring the police and him together,
that you will be handsomely paid for such
service."

What do you think they would give ? "
inquired the countryman, with an admirable
assumption of that look of low cunning so
characteristic of his class when their self-interest
is aroused.

I can't say ; the police alone could tell
you that. I should like very much to see
this famous Count myself."

You, signor ; why, what could you want
to see him about ? "

Curiosity, my man," rejoined Leroux.
He is a man of mark, and since his last
exploit of carrying off this English milord
the city is ringing with stories about him.
It seems he has been famous for years. All
men have a passion for seeing celebrities."

If you will make it worth my while I
can take you to him," said the peasant, ina
low voice.

Ah," replied Leroux, laughing, " that

is not quite what I meant. No, no, ray
friend; I've no wish to go up into your
forests above Araalfi for an interview with
the most famous robber of modern times.
I might find it not so easy to come back
again."

"You can't think that the Count would
venture into Naples? It might be more
difficult for him to get back than for you
to return to the mountains. This is glorious,
signor. I should like to be rowed about
and smoke all the afternoon."

That would be entirely to neglect your
business," rejoined Leroux.

One cannot be always thinking of business,"
replied the other. "It is only when
one is hungry that one thinks of business."

A mere animal," thought the police-agent
; " would like to bask in the sunshine
till moved by hunger to exert itself ; with
hardly brains to be predatory in its habits,
and with just enough low cunning to pickup
a living by fraud. Quite willing, apparently,

to sell the bit of information he has
obtained concerning Patroceni. He may bea
very useful tool this, and I must see him
again, but it must be next time in my own
character ; " and then Leroux remarked
aloud, " We must be going back now, as
I am sorry to say I have no further time to
spend on the water," and the police-agent
motioned to the rowers to turn back.

It is too soon ; I could stay out here
for ever. I was never in a boat before. The
ripple of the water against the boat-side
reminds me of the rustle of the leaves as
the wind sighs through the trees."

The affairs of this life must be attended
to," said Leroux, as they neared the quay.
I have a friend who holds an appointment
in the bureau ; it is too late to-day, but if
you take this up there tomorrow, and send
it in to the police-agent, Leroux, he will
tell you all you want to know, and I should
think you have a chance of driving a very
profitable bargain."

"Ah! so many thanks, signor," said the
countryman as they disembarked ; " I thank
you for your kindness to a poor peasant. I
thank you for a charming row. I thank
you for having shown me how to dispose of
my wares to the best advantage. Heaven's
blessing upon you, signor ! God will be
good to one who is so kind to the poor."

Amidst this shower of protestations, Herr
Stein scribbled a few lines on a leaf in his
pocket-book, tore it out, and handed it to
his companion, and then took his departure.

Dispose of his wares, the scoundrel ! "
quoth Leroux as he walked away. ic He is
taking the thirty pieces of silver, and invoking
Heaven's blessings on the head of
the purchaser."

CHAPTER X.

A RACE FOR THE HILLS.

Patroceni lounged on the quay, watching
the police-agent till he was out of sight.
There is no doubt about it," he muttered.
"I was perfectly right. That man is a
myrmidon of the police. At whose instigation
are they seeking for my whereabouts ?
Surely, they will hardly be so mad as to
take active measures against me while I
hold these prisoners in my hand. It can
only be at the promptings of one of these
fat-headed islanders themselves. My own
countrymen would never make such mistakes,

much less — and his lip curled at the
thought— with Patroceni. If I've done
nothing else in all these years, I think I
have taught the authorities to understand
that I am a man of my word, and little
given to flinch from the execution of any
threats that I may utter. No ; pressure of
some kind must have been put upon them,
or they would never proceed in this way.
Matteo is a great loss. He would have
ferreted out the rights of this for me before
the week was out. I suppose, though, it is
to be accounted for in only one way ; that
triple-dyed scoundrel, to whom, apparently,
in sheer perverseness, these unfortunates
would entrust the arranging of their ransom,
is playing fast and loose with everyone.
What madness possessed Wheldrake to
change places with him? If there was a
man breathing who knew what a scoundrel
Hamilton was, it should have been he.
If there was one man who ought to have
known the risk of leaving a delicate affair

like this in Hamrnerton's hands, it was
Wheldrake. If there was a man who had
suffered bitter wrong from Hamilton, once
more it was he. What could have been his
object? Why did he take the fate of those
he loved out of his own direction, and hand
it over to a man like this ? Well, it is done.
Mr. Wheldrake, in a moment of infatuation,
has thought proper to interfere with the
conducting of my affairs. He is likely to
pay for it with his life. I can only say that
his blood, and that of his friends, be upon
his own head. I will go back not one iota
from what I have said : in the meantime the
sooner I am off to the mountains the better.
I can do no good here, and if the police try
to beat up my lair so much the worse for
my prisoners,"

Pleasant reflections these for a good many
people could they have known them, but
the Count was not given to make confidants,
and that night he vanished silently from the

city and took his way back to the woods
above Amalfi.

Police-agent Leroux was not a little
puzzled by the non-appearance next morning
of his acquaintance of the previous day.
He had made every preparation for his reception,
had given orders that he should beat
once admitted to his own room as soon
as the scrap of paper he had given him
should be produced. But that money-seeking
peasant never turned up, and as the
day wore on a doubt stole over Leroux's
mind as to whether that peasant had been
quite so innocent as he seemed to be. True,
he thought a stupid fellow like that might
have fallen into bad hands — might be lying
drugged and half-stripped in some of the
low r er parts of the city. All this was very
probable ; but for all that Leroux could not
get over an uneasy feeling that for the first
time he had come in contact with a spy of
the famous bandit chief, who had guessed

what lie himself was. As he thought over
their conversation, while rowing about on
the Bay, he was conscious that he had displayed
over-eagerness to he in possession of
Patroceni's exact whereabouts. But surely
that stupid peasant could have had no deeper
design than he professed — to wit, to dispose
of such information as he possessed about
the haunts of the brigands to the best
advantage. Doubtful, when tested, whether
what he did know was matter of much
importance, still, in the rather tortuous
game that Leroux was playing, he knew
that he could not afford to neglect the
slightest chance that presented itself. He
bore in mind, too, that he was playing against
a very clever and very crafty antagonist,
one famous for his stratagems, who had
passed his life in one incessant struggle
with those in authority. And again, Leroux
wished that simple countryman would make
his appearance and disburse himself of
what he had to tell. If Patroceni should

VOL. III. L

come to suspect that the Neapolitan police
were really taking active measures against
him, then Leroux knew from his colleagues
in the bureau that it would be in accordance
with all the traditions of Italian brigandage
to put his captives to death. The police-agent
might well feel a little grave over this
state of the case. He knew well what a
mistake of that kind meant, as far as he
was concerned — dismissal from his appointment
would probably be supplemented by
an indefinite term of years at the galleys —
till such period, in all likelihood, as his
offending had died out of men's minds —
and, as by that his very existence would
have probably died out of the memory of
the ruling powers, that might possibly be
his destiny for life. The more he thought
it over the more police-agent Leroux felt
confirmed in his opinion that there was no
time to lose — that it behoved him to strike
quickly.

His scouts should leave Naples that night,

and feel their way leisurely forward towards
the woods above Amain. That a guide to
the brigands' camp would simplify matters
was without doubt. But this innocent
peasant had not re-appeared, and Giovanni
had not as yet been aroused to that sense of
his wrongs which would induce him to
betray his chief. No ; he had arrived at a
fair idea of the locale in which the bandits
were encamped; the exact spot he must
trust his scouts to discover. The great
thing he had to impress upon them, at first,
was caution. Let them not be precipitate ;
be in no hurry to discover the stronghold of
Patroceni and his men, but saunter along
leisurely as if they had no definite aim ; time
enough for them to push on in earnest
when they heard that Leroux with the main
body was close behind them in support.

Such were the peremptory orders that the

police-agent gave to his subordinates. He

had thought the whole campaign out as

carefully as a Marlborough might have done,

land

was conducting it on a miniature scale
with as much energy and ability. He had
sounded the advance, and his tirailleurs
were already creeping steadily forward.
Like many another great commander, Leroux
waited for some final information, and that
he trusted to obtain at mid day from Giovanni
at the " Golden Bush." No sooner
had he given up all hope of the re-appearance
of that open-hearted countryman, with
his secret information for sale, than he had
promptly issued his orders. All he awaited
now was to hear that the last hamper of
wine had been duly received in the camp.
He could not move too quickly after that.
Patroceni's followers were thirsty souls, and
little likely to keep wine-flasks uncorked.
Let Pietro and his friends only appreciate
this hamper to the extent they had clone the
previous ones, and, according to Serous
calculations, two-thirds of Patroceni's followers
would be hors che combat. Every
bottle of that wine was drugged, and not a

man who partook deeply of it toes likely to
recover his senses for many hours.

It must not be supposed that Leroux's
men had not received their orders before
this. Some of his advanced scouts were
already on the other side of Pompeii, and
the main body of gendarmerie had already
for some days been stationed at that place,
with the avowed object of protecting the
road to Amain from brigandage. Ostentatious
patrolling had constantly taken place
for the purpose of throwing dust in Patron
eyes. And so far it had succeeded.
The Count had no idea that the Neapolitan
police really contemplated beating up his
quarters. He looked upon this as a mere
flourish of trumpets for the benefit of the
public ; a protest from the Government that
they intended to stamp out brigandage
with a strong hand; a hint to himself
that there must be no more kidnapping of
wealthy Englishmen, at all events in the
neighbourhood of Naples, for some time.

Shrewd as he was it had never occurred
to Patroceni that the presence of all these
gendarmes in Pompeii was anything more
than demonstration. He had a right to
think so. He had much experience of the
putting down of brigandage by the Bourbons,
and knew that the leader of the party was
ever to be bought if the transgressors
deemed it worth their while. As a rule it
was not; it was something like shirking
a master in a big public school. The
gendarmerie no more wanted to see the
brigands than the master does the transgressing
schoolboy.

Leroux discovered Giovanni on his accustomed
seat at the t€ Golden Bush," and
speedily ascertained from that worthy that
the wine had safely reached its destination.


The dogs ! they are longing for a bout
of it. I wish I was with them; but his
Excellency is away, and Signor Sarini, who
holds command there now, is a stern disciplinarian.

Santo Diavolo ! there would
be much desertion from the band if Signor
Sarini were chief ! "

u You seem to know these followers of
Count Patroceni pretty well," said Leroux,
laughing.

Ha ! ha ! my little man, we dwellers on
the country-side are not scared at people of
this sort as you city fellows are."

No," rejoined Leroux, contemptuously,
< e we are scared at them, and yet I don't
suppose there's a man in the city who had
been visited with such cruel punishment as
you — [ mean as you describe — for such a
trivial offence, who would not have bided
his time, and ere long flown like a wild cat
at his adversary's throat."

"It's all very well," growled the bandit,
but you don't know his Excellency."

No, signor. I am an old man, and am
scarce likely to make his acquaintance, but
if he had treated me as he treated you — I
mean your friend — I don't think the length

and breadth of Italy would have kept us
apart."

Giovanni said nothing, but gulped down
another bumper of wine.

No,' 7 he said at length, doggedly, " I
will not turn against his Excellency."

Signor Giovanni," said Leroux, rising,
I regret that I must leave you ; it is
possible you will not see me again for two
or three days, for business calls me in the
direction of Amalfi. Why should I disguise
it from you, my friend ? I have to play a
very subordinate part in the arrangement
that has been made for the release of these
Englishmen. It is possible I may even see
his Excellency Count Patroceni, even speak
to this man, at whose frown you tremble.
I doubt his impressing me to that extent."
And Leroux's lip curled as he shook hands
with the brigand.

Giovanni slowly finished his wine while
he pondered over Leroux's last remark. Eor
once the police-agent had over-reached himself.

He had sought to sting Giovanni into
revenging his injuries, hut he had gone a
little too far when he said that he was going
towards Amalfi to meet the Count about
that matter of the ransom. It began to
dawn upon the bandit's slow intelligence
that he had perhaps been indiscreet in
talking so freely before a stranger. He
recollected what mischief his tongue had
led him into that day when he was told
to watch the Englishman. Surely, he could
have said nothing that could by any possibility
bring harm to his comrades. That
the Count and his followers were in the
hills above Amalfi was no news to any one.
He had doggedly refused to take part
against him ; but, ah ! there were those
letters. He did not know what might come
of them. Fool that he had been to take
this Signor Stein's gold ; and yet there
could hardly be harm in a letter, and the
gold was bright red gold, and he loved gold,
or rather what gold could give him. Still,

he felt uneasy in his mind, and suddenly-resolved
that he would make his way back
to the camp, and, at all events, give notice
that the people were coming with the
ransom for the prisoners. It still in nowise
dawned upon his mind that the affable
old gentleman who had entertained him so
hospitably almost daily was connected with
the police. It was a vague feeling of uneasiness
that impelled him to hurry back
to the hills and give his comrades warning,
though what he was to warn them against
was by no means very clear to him.

The bandit rose from his chair, and leaving
the "Golden Bush" made his way rapidly
back to his lodgings in La Vicaria. His
preparations for the journey were soon made,
and before the sun dropped he was on his
way. Three men, speeding rapidly towards
that camp on the plateau, and each in
ignorance of the others' movements: 
scouring back to his lair amidst
the woods to warn his men to be on the

alert, and with ominous thoughts concerning
some of those captives in his keeping ;
police-agent Leroux has the like goal in
view, bent on pushing on there with all
possible speed and the myrmidons of the
law at his back ; and there again is thickheaded,
drunken, blundering Giovanni, dimly
conscious of danger, pressing forward to
warn all his comrades of undreamt-of perils.

CHAPTER XL

TO DIE AT DAYBREAK.

Patroceni, with his suspicions aroused,
sped back to the camp with eyes and ears
open to every sign of danger. He passed
through Pompeii, noticing the gendarmerie
posted there as he did so. He was prepared
for this. He had been informed that inconsequence
of the capture of Sir Jasper
and his party the authorities had established
a post there for the purpose of patrolling
the road to Amain.

On his way to Naples he had seen himself
that this was true, but it was by no means
to be deduced by that they had the slightest

intention of taking active measures against
himself and his followers. He had had too
much experience of the powers that he in
Italy (the Italy of the days I am writing of)
to feel much disturbed about that. But
what caught the Count's quick eye at
once as he repassed through the town was
the great addition that had been made to
the force there since some forty-eight hours
before. He felt sure that there were at
least three of the police where there had
been but one before.

Something more than a demonstration
this ! " he muttered to himself ; " and yet
they surely can't be such fools as to attempt
to meddle with me under the present circumstances."


When he left the road and struck across
country towards the woods he speedily became
conscious of unfamiliar faces. He
did not pass many men ; but he saw figures
in the distance, both right and left of him.

Peasants they were apparently ; but Patron
quick eye detected that if they were
peasants they were at all events peasants
that had been through the drill-sergeant's
hands. He spoke to one or two of them,
and the rather lame replies they gave to
his questions convinced him that these men
were either police or soldiers in the garb of
peasants. Rapidly the Count awoke to the
conviction that he was passing through a
cordon of skirmishers, who were very slowly
feeling their way towards the woods where
the camp was pitched. He thought he
detected a half-tendency to stop him ; only
none of those he passed quite liked to take
that responsibility upon themselves.

Betrayed! " muttered the Count to himself,
as he pushed rapidly onwards. " That
scoundrel Hamilton has doubtless gone
to the police, in spite of all his asseverations
to the contrary, and this is the result.
The miserable fools think they can trap

Patroceni. They are pushing forward this
body of scouts, evidently feeling for our
encampment. All that force I saw at Pompeii
will — they doubtless are — being pushed
forward as fast as possible to the attack.
Captain Harnmerton, the lives of your
friends wax short. When they have seen
the sun rise twice they may say good-bye
to this world ; and for you' muttered the
Count, "let your cowardly carcase be
within striking distance for a few more days
and you also will have done with things
terrestrial, even if my own life pays the
penalty. Mistake ! yes, a mistake ! " he
continued, as he breasted the hill. " Well !
we are all liable to error." And the Count
made this reflection in the same sort of
spirit that a benevolent man might have
clone regarding ill-judged charitable relief.
Had I followed my natural instincts and
simply put an end to Giovanni and also
Hamilton, — the one dangerous to me
through his drunken stupidity, the other

from his utter falsity, — I should have been
in no straits now, and the chances are
two infinitely better men would have been
spared."

Insensible, apparently, to fatigue or want
of food, Patroceni tramped on the livelong
night. He passed [that hut on the mountain
where Wheldrake had slept on his way to
the plateau, pausing there only for a drink
of cold water and to hear what the nominal
shepherds had to tell him. They formed
the extreme outpost of his camp, and in
answer to his inquiries replied that they
had noticed no strangers about the country.
Sarini's vigilance had apparently not yet
been alarmed. Patroceni still continued to
push on with all the speed he could
muster — a wiry, muscular man, with great
powers of endurance, which had been
tested many a time and oft in his adventurous
life.

To reach the camp as quickly as possible
was now his object. He had made up his

mind he would sacrifice his prisoners at
daybreak the next morning and retreat
with a picked body of his followers, carrying
Sir Jasper with him. One thing only
troubled him : What was he to do with the
women ? He did not want to slay them.
Pitiless as he was there was something
repugnant to him in the idea of taking a
woman's life, and yet it was impossible to
take them with him on such a rapid
retreat as he contemplated. As for Whelm
he had brought his fate upon himself
and indeed doomed Glanfield and Jackson
to destruction as well. Yes, Glanfield
must die : he regretted it ; but it was an
exigency that could not be avoided. One
prisoner was as much as he could be
hampered with. As for Jackson — well, a
butler more or less was of no great matter
in the world. But the women ! What was
he to do with the women ? Ah ! he had
it ! He would leave them behind him.
They would be sure to be discovered in a

VOL. III. M

day or two, and would take no harm for
that time.

It was late in the afternoon when Patron
reached the camp, and, sending one of
his men for Sarini, made the hest of his
way to his own tent. Sarini ! that was
another thing to he considered ; what was
he to do with his trusty lieutenant, who,
though much letter, was still too lame for
such a rapid march as he contemplated.
He had not to wait long before Sarini
presented himself and listened quietly to
the news his chief Drought.

16 1 made nothing out of Matteo's murder.
People are so utterly at fault they don't even
know whom to suspect, but it is as well I
went to Naples. We are betrayed, Sarini.
The police have got hold of that drunken
idiot Giovanni. Signor Hamilton, too, I
feel quite sure, is in communication with
them besides."

"Giovanni!" exclaimed Sarini; U I did
not even know that he was alive ; I thought

your Excellency dismissed him from our
ranks for good."

"No; he lives, and could they but persuade
him to show them the way to the
camp they would probably be upon us this
night; as it is I passed through their scouts,
who are slowly feeling their way across the
hills. They don't know precisely where weare
at present."

Your Excellency will not wait for them,
I presume," said Sarini; "and the Signor
Hamilton's treachery will entail its usual
consequences on his friends."

The prisoners will die at daybreak, with
the exception of Sir Jasper," rejoined the
Count, curtly. " We don't shoot women,
so I shall leave them behind. The rest of
us must be many miles away by tomorrow
night. There is only one question : What
shall we do with you ? Your ancle is hardly
strong enough, as yet, to stand such hardwork
as lies before us."
m 2

No, Excellent, I should only breakdown.
I shall take refuge in one of the
shepherd's huts about. I am not likely to
be interfered with, unless Giovanni points
me out."

No," returned Patroceni, quietly, " he'll
not do that. He is betraying us unwittingly
; he is very stupid and he will drink.
The police have got hold of him, and know
that he belongs to us. He does not know
it, but he lives under perpetual cross-examination.
You will run no risk as far as he
is concerned."

Never mind me, Excellent, I can take
care of myself ; but from what you tell me
it is very possible that we shall be attacked
before daybreak. Between threats and gold
our ill-advised friends from Naples will not
find much difficulty about getting a guide
to our retreat. We shall have an account
to settle with Signor Hamilton that
neither you, nor I, Count, are the men to

forget. And these others : shall you give
them notice of their fate ? It will be as
well, poor devils, to grant them time to
make their peace with God."

Yes, most men have last words and
last messages to leave behind them. God
pity those, Sarini, like ourselves, with
neither kith nor kin, and whose last words
can be no more than a prayer for our
country ! We have spent our lives in
pursuit of the grand idea of an Italian
Republic ; we have been on the crest of
every little storm-wave from our boyhood ;
we have waded through bloodshed, danger,
and what the world calls crime — nay, worse,
they would more likely say murder ! and
all to what end? In the earnest pursuit
of a chimera that we seem as far from as
when we began. It is too late to change
our political creed. We must go on, and
levy taxes for our country."

Grandiloquent sentences these, such as

fanatics like the Count and Sarini are wont
to use in justifying to themselves their deeds
of rapine and bloodshed. Much argument
of this sort, is rife, I should think, amongst
the leading statesmen in those South
American Republics that physically and
politically live an existence of earthquakes.
As for the Count and Sarini, they were the
regenerators of Italy no doubt ; but it was
a regeneration of which the principal idea
was that they should be at the helm of
public affairs. No other scheme of Government
was quite satisfactory to these patriots.

Yes," continued Patroceni, after a long
pause, "it is only just to give men time
when possible to make up their accounts
in this world. Fetch Wh el drake and Cranfield
here; never mind about the servant,
he has lived in terror of his life, I fancy,
ever since he has been here. It will be a
sin to disturb his last night's slumbers."

Sarini stole noiselessly from the tent, not

the first time by many that he had warned
men they were to die at daybreak. And in
good truth there had been times in his
stormy career-in which night after night
he had expected a like lullaby ere he laid
his head on the pillow. A few minutes,
and he returned accompanied by the two
victims.

Gentlemen," said Patroceni, with a
courteous bow, " I regret to say that I
have unpleasant news to communicate to
you. I must in my own defence point
out to Signor Wheldrake that it was his
own rash interference with my plans which
has caused this sad necessity. The police
are advancing to your rescue — instigated, I
have little doubt, by Captain Hamilton.
I warned you, gentlemen, what would infallibly
be the result of any such movement
on their part. I will be perfectly
candid with you. To await an attack here
would be madness on my part. I should
be so outnumbered that if repulsed at first

their ultimate success would be certain,
whilst the possibility of a retreat would be
lost. To carry so many of you with me as
prisoners is impossible. The men must
die. The ladies I shall leave behind me.
A dull day or so is all the inconvenience
they are likely to suffer before assistance
comes to them."

I should be very sorry to interfere with
any family arrangements," said Glanfield ;
but, if you could make it convenient to
leave us behind with the ladies, I think it
would be pleasant for all concerned."

I knew Hamilton was a scoundrel,"
exclaimed Wheldrake, " but I would never
have believed this of him."

I shall leave you behind, Mr. Glanfield,
but I am afraid you will not much lighten
the dulness of the ladies. Brigandage has
its obligations, and would be a trade of very
little use if it were not respected. Communication
with the police is death by the law
of the mountain. If that law were not

strictly kept the arranging of ransoms
would be impossible."

But," cried Wheldrake, " this money is
raised, we know ! "

How ? " said Patroceni, briefly, as his
dark eyes looked through the speaker.

You duffer ! " muttered Glanfield.

Wheldrake hesitated, looked confused,
and eventually said : " We have every
reason to believe that arrangement to be
satisfactorily concluded."

"Mr. Wheldrake," rejoined the Count,
you are either making a statement for
which you have no grounds or you are incommunication
with Naples. Having invariably
found you an upright, honourable
man, I have no doubt that my latter theory
is the correct one. This makes my situation
so much more complicated. Gentlemen, I
will wish you good-night now, and regret
that necessity will compel me to wish you a
permanent adieu at daybreak. Make your
peace with Heaven to-night, and believe me

that any last wishes you may express will
be most scrupulously attended to. Once
more, good-night. Conduct these gentlemen
to their tents, Sarini. ,, And with a
bow that would have done no discredit to
a throne-room the Count dismissed his unfortunate
guests.

CHAPTER XII.

LAST WORDS.

"To die at daybreak." It is not as a rule
that, except through the mouth of her
Majesty's judges, this sentence is dealt out
to us. Regarded theoretically those four
words do not carry much weight. The
assault will take place at daybreak ; if it
makes the pulses of the soldier beat quicker
it carries no presage of his impending fate.
There is promotion, the V.C., and the
chance of exceptional honours before him,
and in the hot tide of battle who rocks
that he may be numbered amongst the

slain ? But the words " To die at dam



break " assume a very different aspect
when you know there is nothing to interfere
between you and implacable fate, and
at sunrise you are to take your last look
upon this earth of ours and sink without
a struggle into the grave which destiny
has awarded you.

A grim prospect this for the few short
hours that remain. No time now to right
that tangled web we most of us make of
our lives. Sins, follies, errors of judgment,
must, such as they are, be left standing
on the record against us. No time left tous
to put right these miserable mistakes
of our career. We are to die at daybreak !
Only a few hours left in which to endeavour
to repair such wrongdoing as may lay heavy
on our soul.

Wheldrake and Glanfield were not
troubled with remorse or compunctions of
this nature. They were both men who had
lived their careless lives honestly and

straightly, according to their lights. If
they were to die it was through no fault of
their own. To say they could conscientiously
show a blameless record would be
to claim for them what no men of the
world like themselves could possibly produce
; but both of them could say with a
clear conscience that neither man nor
woman was the worse for having known
them.

It looks ugly, old man." said Glanfield,
as, upon regaining their tent, he lit a cigar.
Unless something turns up in our favour
I fancy that ungrateful beggar really does
mean shooting us at daybreak. By Jove !
only to think that not a twelvemonth ago,
when we shot the Hangers, I could have
forestalled him, and rolled him over like a
rabbit — by mistake."

Yes," replied Wheldrake ; " there's no
jesting about the Count, you may depend
upon it. Whether Hamilton has really
played false to us or not is of very little

consequence. Patroceni thinks he has, and
that's enough to determine our fate. Well,
it's rather hard. Three or four weeks ago
I think I should have rather welcomed the
ending ; but then, you see, I hadn't again
met Maude. I had no idea she still loved
me. The world to me was a blank, and I
cared not how soon I was quit of it. Now
everything is different. I know I still hold
her heart. Life once more opens before
me, and I am loth to leave it."

Ah ! it's not such a bad sort of place,
you know. I've always found it good
enough for me. A little depressing, perhaps,
when all your fancies at Ascot and
Newmarket persistently run second. When
the sporting papers on the Saturday clearly
demonstrate they ought to have won if such-and-such
had taken place, and you only
know they didn't, and there's a lot to pay
on Monday. There ! it's all very well,
Cyril ; I am trying to take the most gloomy
view I can of it, because our places seem

booked by this train, and it's no use making
faces over it."

"No, Jim," rejoined Wheldrake ; "like
most Englishmen I suppose we know
how to die now our time has come. But
there's one thing — I should like to say-goodbye
to Maude. And, though they
mean shooting us at daybreak, I don't suppose
our captors will object to that. You,
also, I should think, would like to take
leave of her."

"Yes, of course," rejoined Glanfield, ashe
emitted a heavy cloud of smoke from
beneath his moustache, " I should like todo
that. Don't want to interfere with your
good-bye, you know, old fellow. I should
like to shake hands too with Mrs. Pullerton.
We're old friends, you know. Yes, very old

friends; and it would be " and here Jim

took his cigar from his lips, and there
seemed something wrong in the rolling of
that tobacco which required immediate
seeing to. " Yes, old friends," he continued ;

she is a fine woman, Mrs. Eullerton, and
a deuced nice woman too ; and it would bea
polite attention, you know, to say goodbye."


It is merely asking our gaoler's permission
I fancy," said Wheldrake; and,
going to the door of the tent, he requested
the sentry to pass the word for Sarini.
That worthy quickly made his appearance,
and upon learning their request acceded toit
at once.

Certainly, signors ; I regret as much as
his Excellency that the treachery of a friend
consigns you to the tomb. The fortune of
war, my friends — and something may intervene
even now, signors, to save you. I have
been half-a-dozen times as near my end as
you are apparently, and seen many a year
roll by since. Any liberty you like tonight,
signors ; but remember, attempting
to pass the sentries is merely anticipating
the morning."

"You need fear nothing of that sort,"

rejoined Wheldrake. " We regard escape
as much too hopeless an enterprise to be
worth attempting. We only wish to say
good-bye to the friends we are so soon to
leave behind us."

I will send word to the ladies," rejoined
Sarini, with a low bow. " It is a glorious
night, and the plateau will be pleasant.
Lives, Signor Wheldrake, must give way to
circumstances. Eut believe me when I say
that I am sorry circumstances compel his
Excellency to sacrifice yours. Ah' continued
this philosopher, " another shake of
the dice-box and Patroceni and I will probably
change places with you."

I say," said Glanfield, as Sarini hell the
tent, " this is all devilish fine, you know ;
but if there's one thing that I hate on
leaving a country-house it's the saying
Good-bye.' It's awful aw r award, you know.
If you say too much about what a good time
you've had — looks as if you were fishing for
an invitation to be asked there again ; and,

VOL. III. >7

if you take the other line, then I always
picture 'em while I'm on my way to the
station as saying, ' Cantankerous beast !
I suppose there was nothing here good
enough for him.' No, Cyril, you needn't
smile ; there's nothing to grin about in
being shot at daybreak, and there is nothing
very jocular in saying good-bye to people

well, people you care about, for a

precious indefinite period."

Come along," said Wheldrake, " it's no
use straw splitting like this. I'm going to
have a last talk with Maude ; as for you, I
daresay you will find plenty to say when
you once see the woman who you're head-overseers
in love with, and w r ho is just as
much in love with you, whenever you can
manage to bring that little explanation
about."

"Mrs. Fullerton in love with me!" exclaimed
Glanfield.

"Yes," said Cyril, quietly; "she only
wants to be assured of your love to ow 7 n it,

but perhaps, standing as we do on the brink
of the grave, you have no business to tell it.
Come along;" and the two slipped out into
the moonlight, where already the flutter of
the ladies' dresses was visible.

I am so pleased to see you, Cyril," said
Maude, quietly. " Have you any news from
Naples? Papa is getting so fidgety and
uneasy. He has taken it into his head
that my cousin Red is playing us false."

"Yes, my dear Maude," rejoined Whelm
"and, what is still worse, Patroceni
has taken the same idea into his head."

You don't mean that?" cried the girl,
eagerly. "Will it endanger our position
here, do you think ? "

"I don't know," replied Wheldrake,
quietly. " It means that Jim and I have
got to leave you for a little."

Leave us ! Good heavens, Cyril, what
do you mean ? "

"Oh, I don't know. No prudent man
puts all his eggs into one basket. I sun
2

pose we represent, in some shape, stocks,
shares, what yon will, to these scoundrels.
They don't mean to keep all their prisoners
in one place."

"And where are they going to send you?"
cried Maude, breathless with excitement.

Well, I don't know," rejoined Cyril,
quietly. " But it will be a good way from
here. I shall be saying good-bye to you
now for many a long day."

Long day ! " cried the girl excitedly, as
she clasped his arm. "What is it you
mean, Cyril ? Tell me the truth at once."

Really, Mr. Glanfield, those two are
getting a little too lover-like to desire supervision.
I can shut my eyes as close as
any chaperone in Europe, but I know when
it is time to turn my back — and don't you
think, Mr. Glanfield, it is time now ? " and
with these words the widow turned on her
heel and led the way towards the other
end of the plateau.

Glanfield walked by her side as they

paced away from the other two still talking
in the moonlight.

"What does Mr. Wheldrake mean ? " inquired
the widow, sharply, the moment
they were out of earshot. " There is surely
nothing serious threatening ? You are both
going away. "When ? why ? where ? "

Don't know exactly where," rejoined
Glanfield. " Why — because it suits Count
Patroceni to send us there. When — at daybreak
tomorrow morning. Now, Mrs. Pullerton,
you know all that I can tell you."

She looked at him for a few minutes and
then replied quietly, " I perhaps know all
you will tell me, but by no means all you
can. There is nothing wrong about the
ransom, is there ? "

Don't suppose so," said Glanfield.
Hamilton's not written — couldn't perhaps.
Post here a little irregular, you see."

A somewhat similar scene was taking
place about twenty paces from them.

il Cyril," said Maude, in a low whisper,

the moment the others were well out of
hearing, "you are not telling me the truth.
What is the meaning of going away — what
is the meaning of our not meeting for ever
so long? Surely you don't think that this
terrible Count can meditate such crimes as
men in his profession too often resort to ?
He is not — not — threatening the lives of
you and Mr. Glanfield, is he ? Let me see
him, if it is so. He must listen to a woman;
he must know, when it is pointed out to
him, that it will be sheer madness to take
the lives of any of us — that my father will
pay only to save the lives of all of us. And
Cyril, dearest, it might be well he should
know that if he kills you my father need
pay no ransom for me."

"It is no use being frightened, darling.
You have guessed so much that I won't disguise
from you that the Count has been
rather lavish of threats this afternoon ; and
rather lavish of his wine too apparently," he
continued, as the boisterous laughter of the

brigands, carousing upon the edge of the
wood, fell upon their ears. " I'll be honest
with you, Maude. Patroceni is anxious,
because he thinks your cousin Fred is incommunication
with the police. We run no
danger unless that is the case."

Oh, Cyril, Cyril ! and it was to please
me — it was to save my cousin from possible
danger — that you changed places with him.
Oh! my God. What shall I do?" And
the girl threw her hands to her temples.
I, who would give my life's blood for you,
am about to become your murderess ; "
and, snatching his hand, Maude fell at
Wheldrake's feet, in a perfect storm of sobs.
He raised her in a moment, and, clasping
her in his arms, kissed away the tears.

You have no right to say such things,"
he exclaimed at last; "the whole thing seems
to me to be a puzzle. I have no reason —
goodness knows — to think well of Fred
Hamilton ; but I do not believe him such
a scoundrel as this would prove him to be.

The whole tiling is a bit of a puzzle; but I
fancy it will come out all right in the end.
You must not cry for me yet, Maude.
Gentry like these, whose hospitality we are
enjoying, are wont to get a little fidgety
about the bill, more especially when there
is some slight delay in paying it. Don't
fret, my darling. It is quite possible Cranfield
and myself will not be sent away tomorrow
morning after all."

The girl looked up into his face in the
moonlight, and scanned it eagerly to see if
he were keeping aught back from her ; but
his quiet tranquillity baffled her, and she
dropped her eyes after a minute with a
quiet assurance that if he and Mr. Cranfield
were going away tomorrow morning
it was only that they were to be confided
to stricter custody.

Mrs. Pullerton had paced up and down
for some time by the side of her escort in
silence. As for Jim Glanfield he said nothing,
deeming it much the safest thing todo,

under the circumstances. He was the
last man in the world to make any parade
of what he would term " an awkward fix"
to any lady. If he was to die, well and
good; those who were sorry might shed
tears for him afterwards, hut he was not
going to laye any drenching of pocket-handkerchiefs
in anticipation. He most
decidedly had no desire to quit this world,
and thought vindictively, could he hut have
forecast things, that he would have had a
gun accident that day they shot the Hangers,
and cut short the line of the Patroclus.

"Now, Mr. Glanfield," suddenly exclaimed
the widow, abruptly, "you are
going away at daybreak. ISo more fencing,
if you please. Where ? This monster does
not menace murder, does he ?"

"Well, you see, these fellows always doit's
part of their business, you know. If
the flies that get into their webs don't
happen to shell out freely and shortly they
threaten them with extinction. All pure

bunkum, of course. A man pays as high
as he can for his life, but you can't reckon
upon his heirs paying a fancy price for his
remains."

Mr. Glanneld, how can you talk in such
a dreadful manner?" said the widow, beginning
to whimper, and putting her pocket-handkerchief
to her eyes. " If — if — you
can afford to make a jest of such a thing,
you might remember other people have
feelings. You might remember that we
have likings and disliking; and bear in
mind that when those we love — I mean,
like — are in danger, we don't, that is we do,
feel very unhappy about it." And here
Mrs. Pullerton commenced sobbing in good
earnest.

No ; don't do that, you dear little
woman, there's nothing to cry about."
And here, as Glanneld said afterwards, he
never quite understood how it happened,
but his arm got round the widow's waist
and he found himself kissing away her

tears and protesting that he could not
afford to give up life at present, as a new
interest in it had suddenly dawned upon
him.

But the tenderest love-tale must finish
at last, and a self-contained man like Cranfield
was under no circumstances likely to
be very diffusive. It might be questioned
whether a man doomed to die at daybreak
had any right to speak such words, but
men bound for dangerous enterprises have
often unbuttoned their hearts in this wise,
much as it might look as if nothing ever
come of it. Mrs. Eullerton, having released
herself, and finding her lover wax taciturn,
began to think it was time to retire and
exalt over her conquest.

,C I shall feel dreadfully uneasy," she
said, " till I know this money is paid. I
think it can only mean that Count Patron
is determined to put on still further
pressure. It will be an anxious time for
all of us until the next few days are over.

Meanwhile, Maude and I must retire. Sir
Jasper betook himself to rest an hour ago."
Maude turned at her aunt's summons,
and the two men escorted the ladies to the
door of the hut. It was no time for conventional
partings, but Mrs. Pullerton was
just a little surprised when Wheldrake
kissed her as he bade her farewell.

CHAPTER XIII.

HOW SOUND ARE THEIR SLUMBERS.

Forty-eight hours after Hanimerton's interview
with the Count he received a visit
from Chisel. The valet had occasionally
called before to know if there was any news
of his master, and, upon this occasion, he
sent up not only his name but a note to say
that his business was urgent. Hamilton
ordered him to be shown up, and Chisel said
at once : —

I am afraid, Captain Hamilton, there
is mischief brewing. You know, sir, before
you arrived in Naples I had been urging
the police to search for my master ; but

after you told me that I was endangering
his life hv so doing I never went near them.
Well, sir, there was one of the subordinates
there, who spoke a few words of English,
who used to be very civil to me, and he
promised to let me know when they heard
of anything. He came down this morning
to see me, and told me I should soon see my
master now, as the police had sent a great
expedition, headed by about the cleverest
man amongst them, to capture Patroceni
and all his band ; and when I hinted that
Count Patroceni, by all accounts, was a
parish nut to crack, he told me their men
were in such force as to make any resistance
on the part of the brigands hopeless."

"The fools! the madmen'' exclaimed
Hamilton ; " the brigands are much too
alert, and know the country much too well,
to be surprised by the gendarmerie. The
sole result of their interference will be the
murder of the prisoners. There is only one
thing for it ; I must get a hack, and make

my way thither as quickly as possible," and
Hamilton at once rang the bell and gave
the necessary order to the attendant.

Pleasant this," he thought. " If I do
not get there before the police I shall
naturally be regarded both by Patroceni
and his prisoners as their betrayer. I
played "Wheidrake a pretty scurvy trick
that night at "Wrottsley, but then he stood
between me and thirty thousand pounds.
Since then he has risked his life for mine ;
and I can't let him nor the others die with
the belief that their blood is on my head.
No ; if horseflesh and my legs can do it I
must be on that plateau before the police."

In vain did Chisel beg for leave to accompany
him. Hamilton curtly refused that
request. " No," he said ; " one man will
attract less attention. I will go alone; but
remember if I should not return you will
bear witness that I never went near the
police, but did my very best to prevent the
catastrophe of their coming."

Another minute and Hamilton was in
the saddle, and speeding as fast as his horse
could carry him upon the road to Pompeii.
As he passed through it he noticed that
there were no gendarmes about, and he had
heard at Naples for some days past there
had been a strong post of them there, for
the purpose of patrolling the road to Amain.
Yes; he had no doubt that Chisel's information
was true, and that all these men were
now moving up to surprise Patroceni's camp.
He continued to push on as quickly as possible,
showing very little mercy to the horse
he was riding. He had diverged now from
the high road, and was making his way
across the hills towards the dark woods he
could see in the distance. At last he
reached the shepherd's hut, where Whelm
had slept with his captors on his way
to the camp. There he was confronted by
Giovanni. The bandit had paused for a
short rest, and was engaged in conversation
with two or three comrades who were

there, as a sort of outlying picket. They
were listening intently to the news that Giovanni
brought. No sooner did the bandit
catch sight of Hamilton than he arose
and advanced towards him in a threatening
manner ; but the Captain throwing up his
hands in sign of amity, and being moreover
quite unarmed, the ruffian withdrew his
hand from his poignard. In his broken
Italian Hamilton succeeded in making
Giovanni understand that he had urgent
business with the Count, and then again one
of the soi-disant shepherds recognised the
Captain as having lately been one of his
Excellency's visitors; so, taking into consideration
that he was unarmed and alone,
Giovanni thought there would be no harm
in acceding to Hamilton' s request that he
should accompany him to the camp. That
bandit was soon ready to start again, and
they pushed forward on what was the more
intricate part of their journey.

It soon became evident that the English-vol.

III. o

man was far the fresher of the two men.
In the first place he had led a far healthier
life of late than Giovanni ; and in the second
place the bandit was weighted besides with
the effects of the serious illness that had
followed upon the results of Patroceni's
rough treatment. Then again Hamilton
had come all the first part of his journey
on horseback, not having abandoned his
cruelly-gruelled hack till reaching that hut.
Those elaborate luncheons at the " Golden
Bush " began to tell their tale on the hillside,
and the brawny bandit drew his breath
with many a sob. Hamilton cast impatient
glances at his companion and urged
upon him the necessity of greater speed.

"It is of no use ! " gasped the bandit.
"I can go no quicker. I am pretty near
finished as it is."

But the case is urgent," rejoined hamilton.
" The police are on our heels, and
the Count and your comrades must have
warning."

Push on by yourself, then ! " cried the
panting Giovanni. " I tell you again I can
go no quicker and am nearly worn out.
Surely the road is clear enough to you
now."

Point it out," answered Hamilton,
briefly.

You see that stunted tree to the right,"
rejoined Giovanni, stopping and throwing
himself on the ground; "keep just inside
that. You can see the edge of the woods
already. When you are past the tree keep
as straight for them as you can, bearing if
anything a trifle to the right. When you
near them look for a big boulder. There
are several smaller scattered about, all of
the same size ; but you must look for one
double the size of its fellows. Just behind
that you will find a narrow path through
the woods. You can hardly mistake your
way, and when you come to the spring
turn to your left, and in a couple of
hundred yards or so you will hit the brook ;


follow that upwards and it will lead you
into the camp."

All this took some little time to explain,
and when Hamilton was about to start
again Giovanni sprang to his feet and protested
that he would go with him, but it
was an expiring effort. Before he had
proceeded a quarter of a mile his endeavours
to keep pace with his companion
had completely exhausted him. He once
more threw himself on the ground and
cried, " Go on, never mind me. One
caution only — answer pretty quickly when
challenged, for our people are apt to be
pretty handy with their guns to night
visitors."

Hamilton pushed steadily forward until
he came to the boulders. It took him some
few minutes to find the king-stone. That
found he speedily discovered the path
Giovanni had described, and pursued it at
his best pace till he came to the spring.
By this time it had grown so dark that he

was afraid to leave it, and sat himself down
by its side till the moon should have risen
a little higher in the heavens. According
to his directions he should now leave the
path and penetrate through some two
hundred yards of wood until he hit the
stream. But without a little more light
it was very easy to get turned round and
lose all knowledge of the compass in that
short distance, so he wisely determined to
remain where he was.

Fatigued with his exertion, he stretched
himself by the spring, and in a few minutes
fell asleep. About the time that Wheldrake
and Glanfield were bidding a last good-bye
to the women they loved on the plateau,
and walking back to their tent to make their
grim final preparations, incumbent as a rule
on men doomed to die at daybreak, hamilton
stretched himself and awoke. The
moon shone gorgeously by this, and he had
now little difficulty in striking the brook.
In accordance with his directions he followed

it upwards, but had not gone twenty paces
before he became aware of a man leaning
his back against a tree, and apparently
buried in profound slumber. His gun lay on
the ground by his side, and his arms hung
loose and nerveless across his body. He
advanced cautiously towards him, but the
man showed no signs of awaking, and
speedily he jumped to the conclusion that
this was one of the cordon of sentries,
whom slumber had overtaken. What should
he do ? To pass him might be dangerous.
To awake him were more so. There is a
proverb about "letting sleeping dogs lie,"
but Hamilton thought his presence within
the sentries, unless duly announced, might
be more perilous. He decided to awake
him. Getting between the man and his
gun, he put his hand quietly on his shoulder.
He slept on unconsciously. He shook him,
but still, so sound was his slumber, without
effect. Suddenly a thought flashed across
him. Could he be dead ? He tore open

his jacket, placed his hand to his heart, and
his ear to his mouth. No, the heart heat
steadily, if feebly, and the breath came
regular, if low. It was like the discovery
of one of the seven sleepers Slowly following
the stream, in about another hundred
yards Hamilton came to another brigand
in like case with his comrade. He shook
him similarly, but with no effect. What
could it all mean ? A little further, and he
came to the stones that crossed the brooklet.
He passed to the other side, and found himself
in the midst of a group of a dozen or
fourteen bandits buried in slumber so profound
that not one of them moved a finger
at his presence amongst them. He made
his way quietly to the plateau, and, pausing
for a moment under the shadow of the wood,
considered what he had better do. He knew
these men were fond of wine, but it was
impossible they could all be so utterly overcome
as this by any ordinary drinking-bout.
The best tiling he could do, he thought,

was to go boldly across the plateau straight
to Patroceni's tent. He moved. Just ashe
was about to step forward a footstep on
the turf, at his side, made him start, and,
before he could well distinguish the newcomer,
a strong hand gripped him by the
throat, and he felt the cold barrel of a pistol
pressed against his temples.

CHPTEE XIV.

DEATH OF GIOVANNI.

You had better go quietly, signor, for I
am in little mood to be trifled with. Make
the slightest resistance and you will die."

I have no intention of making any resistance,"
replied Hamilton, quietly comprehending
Sarini's speech, more by his
action than his words.

ci You will come, then, to his Excellency;"
and Sarini, assured that his prisoner meant
no resistance, released his grip, with the
comforting assurance that he would shoot
him at the slightest sign of any endeavour
to escape.

They traversed the plateau rapidly, and
in a few moments stopped at the door of
Patroceni's tent. Still keeping a vigilant
eye on his prisoner, Sarini sharply called :

Your Excellency ! Your Excellency ! "

The Count was a light sleeper, and ina
moment he appeared at the door, already
dressed.

"What is it ? " he demanded.

We knew that we were betrayed ; but
the enemies are rather closer to us than we
thought. Our fellows are all drunk. I
have just been round the camp for the
second time to-night, and there is no rousing
them. I can't understand it. They
were drinking when I went my rounds the
first time ; and I cautioned them that there
were hawks abroad, and they were to have a
care not to drink too deeply. Two or three
of them might have forgotten the caution ;
but I cannot understand their all being in
such a state of utter insensibility."

Captain Hamilton," said the Count,

sharply ; " you've been rash to venture once
more into the tiger's den. We agreed once
before that you would not stick at trifles to
lay your hand upon thirty thousand pounds.
It is a bold game ; but it's like to be a fatal
one to you. Well thought out; well
thought out ! Win your cousin's hand or
not, Sir Jasper was bound to do something
pretty liberal for the man who dared so
much to save him thirty thousand pounds."

You mistake me altogether, Count. I
have risked my life, I know. Risked it
not to keep faith with you, but for the
sake of those whose lives you hold in your
hand."

Thanks for your information," sneered
the Count. " I discovered that for myself
when I had the pleasure of seeing you in
Naples. Even conversed with the police
spy, who is fool enough to think that he
has circumvented Patroceni. Come to warn
me, forsooth ! You have come with the
police at your heels. Hold, Sarini ! I will

go round for myself. You will take care
of our enterprising friend here. If he
moves a finger you will know what todo,"
and the Count rapidly crossed the
plateau. He came first to the sleeping
group, opposite the stepping-stones of the
brook. He looked around at the scene of
the revel —-half empty wine-flasks, tin 
in which the liquor still stood.

Patroceni shook two of the sleepers. "As
I thought," he muttered. Then, stooping
down, he raised one of the half-filled panni-king
to his lips and tasted it. Again he
rinsed his mouth with the contents, then
spat it cautiously out on the grasse

Drugged ! And pretty stiffly too. A
clever plant. That agent of police who
planned this coup is rather cleverer than I
gave him credit for. How did he get his
wine into the camp ? " And pondering over
that problem the Count crossed the stream,
and proceeded further down the opposite
bank. He came one after the other to the

sentries that Hamnierton had passed, and
striking across to the spring followed the
track towards the boulders some little
distance. He listened attentively for quite
ten minutes, but no sound reached his ear,
save the faint rustling of the trees.

Then Patroceni turned back, and rapidly
went round amongst his men ; he found
them all more or less senseless. Some of
them indeed, when shaken, awoke for two or
three minutes, and made some attempt to
rise; but the fatal lethargy soon overtook
them again, and they sank back to resume
their disturbed slumbers. Some there were
who were no more to be roused from their
insensibility than so many corpses. A
frightful imprecation escaped Patroceni' s
lips as he recognised the crafty treachery
that had been practised on him, and he
made his way back to his tent in a frame
of mind that boded small mercy for his
prisoners.

He entered the tent where Sarini, pistol

in hand, was keeping grim watch upon his
captive.

It is as you said," he exclaimed ;
"treachery foul and ingenious has been
practised on us. Captain Hamilton, if you
would make your peace with the Church
you had best do it to-night. You will die
with your comrades at daybreak''

I have been fool enough' rejoined
Hamilton, " to do my best to warn you of
the approach of the police. I suppose I
shall pay the penalty for having tried to
behave honestly to you for once. There is
one thing, Count, make no mistake about it,
whatever blood you shed here is likely to be
speedily avenged. I know the state of your
followers, and once more warn you, as I did
before, that the police will be upon you
before many hours have passed. Fly ! leave
us, and trust to me that the money shall be
paid, wherever you choose to name."

Trust to you ! " interposed Patroceni,
scornfully ; "it would argue much want of

intelligence if I did. No. Your plan was
ingenious, but Sarini and myself are old
conspirators. I do not intend you should
live to enjoy the profits of your treachery.
There will be little fear," he continued with
a sneer, " of your imitating Iscariot now.
The ending of his history is just the part
you would omit ; " and as he finished the
Count made a sign to his lieutenant, who
promptly pinioned Hamilton's arms from
behind.

"Don't struggle," said Patroceni; "weare
two armed and determined men, and, of
course, can kill you now if we wish to. It is
better to wait a few hours, and see whether
luck may not turn in your favour. In the
meantime, when the prisoners outnumber
the garrison, it is only common prudence to
bind them." And in another minute or
two Hamilton found his arms pinioned
behind his back. That done, the Count
pointed to his bed, and bade him take the
rest he must require. Tired and worn out

as he was, in spite of the discomfiture of
his bonds, Hamilton was soon asleep.

Giovanni, in the meanwhile, after a short
nap, in some measure recovered from his
fatigue, pushed rapidly forward, passed the
boulders, followed the track up to the fountain,
struck off through the wood, and, as
Hamilton had done some two hours before
him, came to the first sentry on the
brook. Like Hamilton, he was astounded
at the stupor in which he found him, and
his amazement was still further increased
by discovering the next in pretty much the
same state. But when he had crossed the
brook his astonishment knew no bounds.
He gazed critically at the relics of the
revel, and a fear came over him as the insensible
forms of his comrades met his eye.
Giovanni could certainly claim to be a
judge of drunkenness in all its phases ; but,
as he shook first one and then another of
his fellows, and failed to rouse them from
their heavy trance, a feeling of terror came

over him. " This is not drunkenness," he
muttered, turning white almost to his lips,
and kneeling down by the prostrate form of
his old friend Pietro. "Santa Diavolo! they
are poisoned! " Once more he looked around,
and a wine-flask at Pietro's side met his
eye. He raised it, and, under any other
circumstances, would, probably, have swallowed
the remainder of its contents ; as it
was, he gazed at it curiously, and promptly
recognised that it was one of that pattern of
which the Signor Stein had been so lavish.
He understood it now. Pietro had invited
his comrades to have a bout over the last
basket that he, Giovanni, had forwarded.
Merciful heavens ! that wine must have
been poisoned. That villainous old man
had dealt with his brethren as if they were
rats.

He sank on his knees in the extremity of
his terror. This man — whose life had been
stained with crime, who had only recently
committed a double murder — now cowered

VOL. III. p

in unutterable horror at the thought of
having been, though unwittingly, the destroyer
of all his companions.

They were good to me, some of them,"
he muttered. "If it had not been for Pietro
and two or three more I should not be alive
to poison men like rats. I have slain more
than one in my time, but it was by bullet or
steel. I never sent one to his grave in such
cowardly fashion as this. Holy Virgin, the
place will haunt me. I shall see it in my
dreams, and their ghosts will point and
gibber at me from the brookside here. I,
who have broke bread and drank with them,
to poison their wine-cup ! " and the terrified
man literally grovelled on the ground at the
idea of the death-plague he had scattered
round him. " Are they all dead ?" he murmured.
" Surely his Excellency did not
touch it. And Signor Sarini ? He must be
alive. What am I to do ? I dare not go
forward, the way seems strewn with corpses ;
as if Matteo and that miserable woman were

not enough to see in the night-time. He
died hard, did Matteo; but it served him
right. No fault of his he did not cause my
death. I did his, and, coward as he was,
how he fought ! But I was mad with drink
that night, and my eyes red with blood.
I'd have killed him had he been twice as
strong. And that fool of a woman; what
impelled her to come upon the tiger just ashe
had struck down his quarry ? Well, she
died too ! "

He uttered the last words half unconsciously
aloud. A mocking voice promptly
answered him.

"Don't fret yourself on that point, Giovanni.
You are about to follow them."
And himself on his knees, the bandit saw
his chief standing a few paces from him,
with his pistol levelled at his head. " This,
you scoundrel, is, I presume, your work.
I saw you myself at Naples in close conversation
with the police. It is through
your means they have introduced this balf-
p2

poisoned stuff into the camp, whereby you
consign the whole of your comrades to
the grave or the galleys. It was foolish
of me to give you such a slight chance
for your life as I gave you last time. I
might have known if you lived I should
repent it. Don't think I am going to make
that mistake again."

You saw me in Naples, Excellency ? "
stammered Giovanni.

Yes. You've not forgotten the ' Golden
Bush,' I should think. Perhaps you remember
the dumb pedlar, who sat at the
next table to you at luncheon. I was that
pedlar, and the man you were lunching
with was a police-agent. Quick ! Your
time is short. Was it not you sent this
wine ? "

Yes, your Excellency ; but I knew not
that it was anything but good wine."

Giovanni was much less terrified at the
wrath of his chief than at the phantoms
his imagination had conjured up just before.

"And that pleasant old gentleman with
the spectacles gave it you to send, I suppose
? "

Si 9 Excellent" replied Giovanni.

Then go as herald to those whom your
drunken stupidity has doomed to destruction
; " and as he finished the Count's revolver
cracked, sharp and shrill; and Giovanni
had preceded his comrades across
the Styx. "There will he no resurrection
this time." The Count's bullet had sped
straight and true, and Giovanni fell hack,
shot through the heart.

CHAPTER XV.

LEROTJX ARRIVES AT THE PLATEAU.

As Giovanni rolled over a veritable corpse
among so many apparent ones, Leroux with
his men had reached the edge of the woods.
There he halted his main body while with
his scouts he sought for the path, of whose
existence he was now aware. Prom one or
two frightened peasants whom he had made
prisoners on the way he had extracted a
very fair idea of the road to Patroceni's
retreat. He had made no mistake so far,
but it was just this last bit through the
woods that was difficult to follow without

a guide. There was a delay of some time
before the scouts discovered it, and the
moonlight was waning when he finally
plunged amid the trees.

The most dangerous part of his enterprise
had now commenced ; the narrow path only
permitted of their proceeding two abreast.
The dark hour before the morn was approaching,
and they were liable to be
attacked by invisible foes at almost any
moment. Leroux fancied he had heard a
shot when they first came up to the woods,
but it was so faint and far away that he
could not be sure. The report of a revolver
does not echo very far. Slowly and cautiously
they made their way along — finger
on trigger, and with eyes peering into the
darkness. Leroux led the way in person.
The wine misrht or might not have done
its work. Such a wary old fox as Patroceni
might have discovered this hamper coming
into his camp, and would be certain to
examine it. At last they arrived at the

fountain. There the path apparently ended,
as the police-agent had been correctly
informed it would. Leroux knew now that
he was very near the brigands' camp, and
that the greatest caution and complete
silence were absolutely necessary. It had
now become so very dark that Leroux
determined to wait for daybreak. He was
quite tactician enough to know that he
could not utilise his superiority in numbers
except in the open. A very inferior force,
knowing the ground and attacking him
here amongst the trees, would be quite on
an equality with him. He calculated that
the first streaks of grey would appear in
the sky in half-an-hour. As soon as it was
fairly light — that is, in about an hour — he
would feel his way to the brook, collect his
men on the edge of it, and then make a
bold rush at the plateau. If the drugged
wine had been partaken of the work would
be easy, but it was hardly likely that so
noted a bandit as Patroceni would be taken

without some bloodshed. It could hardly
he hoped that he, as well as all his men,
would have fallen into the insidious trap
that had been laid for them. Having, enjoined
the strictest silence on all his
followers, Leroux sat quietly down by the
fountain to wait for the light.

Leaving the police-agent and his men
bivouacking bv the fountain, we must now
look back upon what is happening in the
camp.

After the death of Giovanni the Count
and Sarini walked quietly back to the
former's tent.

"We must leave this at daybreak," he
said ; " it's the cleverest snare that ever was
set for me. I shall make an example before
I go. The police must be made to understand
that brigandage is a profession not to
be rashly meddled with. There are too
many political exiles dependent upon it fora
living."

"Are all the men to die, Excellency ? "

"No, I think not. We will give Sir
Jasper and his old fool of a butler their
lives. They will be some consolation to the
women until the police come up. They will
be here most likely as the day wears on. Of
the two men who have betrayed us one has
died, the other expiates his treachery at
sunrise. The Signors Glanfield and Whelm
I regret it, but they must suffer as
examples in accordance with the law of the
mountains. But, Sarini, we must not forget
that there are only our two selves now to
administer justice. Don't think me a stickler
for etiquette, my old comrade, but you
know in the ordinary way we should have
paraded the three culprits in a row, bandaged
their eyes, unless they professed to be
able to look into the levelled carbines without
blenching, and shot them in orthodox
fashion. As it is we must first of all dispose
of Hamilton, and we must deal with the
other two in less military fashion. Even
when unarmed I have seen men think it

worth while to make a throw for their lives,
and that there are only two of us might
encourage these perverse Englishmen to
attempt such folly."

It will make very little difference, Excellency.
It may give a little more trouble ;
and if you and I can't deal as we list with a
couple of unarmed men then the training of
years goes for nought. Our nerves are little
likely to fail us at the sight of some slight
difficulty."

True ; and now off with you ! We've
time to spare yet, and I've some few preparations
to make here before we start."
Could Patroceni have heard the conversation
carried on in an undertone in the
adjoining tent he might have been confirmed
in his opinion that these perverse
Englishmen were likely to give trouble.
Glanfield had been roused from a fitful
slumber by the report of Patroceni's pistol.
He at once shook his companion.

Did you hear that ? " he said. " It was

a shot close to the camp. Of course, it may
mean anything. It may mean that one of
our drunken captors has discharged his gun
by accident ; ifc may mean that one of their
sentries has mistaken a bush for a police-officer
; it might be that most dangerous of
all things — soldiers advancing to release us.
It is not likely ; but there may be a turn-up
in our favour before tomorrow. We are not
struck out of all engagements yet. 1 '

Not quite yet, Jim," replied Wheldrake,
with a faint smile. " Such a very few
weeks back and I would have cared so
little if it were so ; but it seems hard now.
Life looks so rosy before one. I am assured
of Maude's love. I have only, on my return
to England, to find Hamilton's confederate
to clear my good name. That
should be easy. Yes, life is sweet to me !
it is bitter to die now."

Glanfield put his glass in his eye, and
leisurely surveyed his companion for a
moment.

Shake hands, old fellow ! " he said.
Those are about my feelings, only I
should have expressed it as a deuce of a
sell. I'll tell you what, Cyril, I don't see
why we shouldn't strike a blow for our lives,
if we see a chance."

"We are more morally fettered, Jim,
than if we were bound hand and foot. The
slightest attempt of that kind might cost
the lives of those very dear to us. A more
ruthless tiger than Patroceni, in spite of all
his purring, never existed. Let his prey
escape him, and he will rend all within his
reach. No, it's hard; but we must die
quietly."

Don't be afraid but what I'll die quietly
enough if it comes to that," replied Cranfield,
doggedly; "but if I see a twenty-tone
chance for our lives I mean to take it.
Even Patroceni would never be tiger enough
to harm our sweethearts ; and don't you
think they would bid us strike a blow to
save ourselves if we got a fair chance ? "

You have no business to endanger their
safety," replied Wheldrake, sternly.

There is no use quarreling over it," replied
Glanfield. "I am not going to do
anything rash ; and it is long odds against
my getting a chance to do anything at all.
But, remember, if I do holloa to you, you
can stand out of it, or not, as you like ; but
you will see a fight."

Wheldrake made no reply, but threw himself
moodily on the bed.

The faintest streak of dawn could be first
seen in the sky from the plateau, invisible
to Leroux and his men amongst the woods.
But the police-agent had become restless,
and whispered to the captain of the gendarmerie
acting under his orders to remain
where he was whilst he crept a little way
forward to explore. He took two or three
of his own men with him, and then carefully
taking his bearings started in the
direction of the brook. At an interval of
about fifty paces he dropped a man to

ensure his being able to find his way back,
with instructions to reply immediately to a
low whistle. He was surprisingly fortunate ;
for by the time he had dropped his last
man he had hit off the brook. Cautiously
he crept along its bank until he came to
that first insensible sentry.

Leroux's pulses tingled. The man seemed
sound asleep ; — how sound ? Could this bethe
first of his victims? Drawing a poignard
from his breast he advanced stealthily to
the sleeper's side. He slept soundly, but
he must know how soundly.

Gripping his dagger close he placed his
hand upon his shoulder. It was well for
that sleeper he had drank deeply of the
cup. Had he suddenly displayed active
animation Leroux's poignard would have
been buried in his breast. But no ; he was
senseless as the tree against which he
leaned. Leroux shook him roughly, and
still he moved not. Then the police-agent

uttered a low laugh and, turning on his
heel, wended his way quietly back to his
men. Leaving the scouts he had placed
where they were, no sooner did Leroux
reach the fountain than, placing himself at
the head of his party, he gave the word
to move on, and rapidly led them to the
hanks of the stream, cautiously preceding
them a few yards. Quietly they crept along
the bank, the police-agent as he passed the
insensible sentry signing to his men to
bind him. When they came to the second
Leroux's heart beat high. No doubt now
that his stratagem had succeeded ! Quietly
he made his way till he came to the
stepping-stones ; then he crossed, It was
daybreak on the plateau, and as he cleared
the brook which ran along the extreme edge
of the wood he came across the scene of
that fatal revel, fatal in appearance as that
of the famous banquet of the veiled Prophet
of Khorassan. Leroux held up his hand

as a signal for those behind him to halt,
and then stepped forward to investigate
affairs.

From where the brigands had held what
was destined to be the final drinking-bout
for most of them the ground ran with a
gentle slope up to the edge of the plateau,
so that a man could move about without
seeing anything that was going on just
above him, nor be seen from that little bit
of table-land unless by some one on its
edge. The wily police-agent took in the
whole scene at a glance. The half-finished
wine-flasks, the half-emptied pannikins, the
drunken revellers strewn around, looking
as if dead. " All this," muttered Leroux
to himself, " the simple result of a well-administered
opiate. Ah ! " he said, with
a low laugh, " quite a new departure in
the profession — the calling in of medical
science to aid in the apprehension of
criminals.' ' But suddenly Giovanni's form
caught his eye. "That one is not drugged,"

VOL. III. Q

he muttered ; " he's dead in good earnest."
In a moment he was hy his side, and turned
up his face. " Mori Dieu ! " he murmured,
as the first fresh rays of the sun fell on the
upturned features of the dead bandit, " my
valued friend with the irrepressible thirst ! "
Quick as thought he drew hack the deadman's
eyelid; hut the fierce light of the
savage orbs was quenched. A slight welling
of blood from Giovanni's chest showed how
he had come by his end. (i Shot for his
treachery, no doubt," mused Leroux, as he
stepped quietly back to his party.

His orders were now prompt and decisive.
Rapidly and noiselessly they crossed the
stream, and spread themselves out under
the crest of the slope, with strict orders to
advance with a rush the minute Leroux
gave the signal ; then the police-agent crept
cautiously forward, raised his head above
the crest, and saw a sight that for the
moment enchained him.

Standing bareheaded, with his arms pinioned

behind his back, was Hamnierton ;
and Leroux's astonishment at seeing here a
man whom he believed to be in Naples was
unbounded. Six paces in front of Hamnierton,
pistol in hand, stood the peasant
whom he had taken out boating, while a
second peasant was anxiously listening to
what the first was saying.

Q2

CHAPTER XVI.

THE LAST TRICK IS TURNED.

Foil an instant the police-agent was puzzled
what to do. He was nearly a hundred
yards away from the impending tragedy.
To charge now would be to precipitate it,
and yet there could be no doubt as to what
Hamilton's doom would be unless intervention
arrived speedily from some quarter.
He was about to spring to his feet and call
upon his men to follow him when his attention
was arrested by seeing a man look
cautiously from out of one of the two tents
which lay on the further side of the three
men.

The new comer on the scene evidently
grasped the situation at a glance. He
hounded out of the tent, and, with a shout
which fell clear enough upon Leroux's
ears., of "Come on, Cyril, I am not going
to stand hy and see cold-hooded murder
done ! " dashed across towards the group.
He was much nearer to Patroceni and his
victim than Leroux, and in his cricketing
days there had been very few quicker men
between wickets than Jim Glanfield. Patron
knew at the first shout that the " perverse
Englishmen " were refusing to meet
their sentence quietly, hut he never turned
his head, and, raising his pistol steadily,
shot Hamilton through the heart. Sardinian
his part turned promptly at the sound of
Glanfield's voice, and, upon seeing that his
foe was close upon him with the light of
battle in his eyes, fired quickly, perhaps a
little too quickly, for it is certain that he
missed his man ; and, as he raised his pistol
to fire a second shot, he was confused hy

seeing "Wheldrake close upon his friend's
heels. He hesitated for a second — fatal
hesitation ! for, as his finger pressed the
trigger, Glanfield struck up his arm and
threw himself upon him. As for Patroceni,
having disposed of Hamilton, he wheeled
quickly round, impassible as ever. His
pistol again rang sharp and true : a stumble,
a flounder or two to recover himself, and
then Wheldrake fell forward on his face. A
grim smile of triumph lit up the Count's
features, destined to be short-lived ; for, ashe
hurried forward to Sarini's assistance,
now engaged in a grapple of life and death
with Glanfield, Leroux's voice rang through
the air, calling upon his men to follow him,
and that they did so closely probably saved
the police-agent's life.

He has his poignard, and can take care
of the Englishman by himself," muttered
the Count, as he turned to confront this
new danger. At a glance he saw that the
police were upon him. About a dozen

armed men were running towards him in a
cluster as fast as they could. Patroceni's
eyes sparkled ; for one second he stood irresolute,
and the next instant his pistol was
again discharged, and one of his assailants
bit the grass.

But which was their leader ? That unluckily
was the thing Patroceni could not
determine. Three times more did his revolver
crack, and twice with fatal results.
The ardour of the attacking party" perceptibly
cooled. With one exception they all
halted; but Leroux came on with all the
determination of a cheetah.

Oh, for one more barrel ! " exclaimed
the Count, as he dashed his now useless
pistol at the police-agent's head, and,
drawing his poignard, prepared himself for
the struggle. " I'll send one more fool to
the other world anyhow before I'm their
prisoner." In another moment Leroux had
sprung at his throat like a wild cat.

They were well matched, and Leroux had
not been some few years in the Neapolitan
police without having taught himself the
scientific use of the dagger. He dexterously
caught his companion's wrist as he dashed
in, only to find his own similarly pinioned
before he could strike. Then it became a
question of strength and endurance as to
which should first free his dagger hand .
His comrades now took heart of grace and
hurried to his assistance, but, ere they could
interfere, the younger man had proved the
stronger. Leroux wrenched his hand free,
and buried his dagger in Patroceni's side.

Habet ! " murmured the bandit, as he
sank to the ground, with a cynical smile on
his lips.

Leroux stood for a moment breathless and
triumphant, but bleeding, for, firmly as he
had struggled to hold Patroceni's wrist, he
had not escaped some flesh wounds.

"Quick!" he cried, looking down upon

the prostrate foe, " carry him to the nearest
tent, and run down to the brook for the
doctor, one of you. It was a near thing for
you, signor," he continued, turning to Cranfield.
" I arrived too late, I fear, to save
your comrades," and as he spoke he walked
towards Hamilton.

Mechanically, Glanfield followed him. It
needed no expert to see that Hamilton s
course was run ; he would never " stock
cards" again. But there were others to
look to besides the dead man. No less than
three of Leroux's immediate followers were
stretched upon the grass, and one of these
would never carry carbine more. By this
time the doctor had come to Wheldrake,
whom Glanfield had already picked up, and
was holding in his arms. Cyril lay with his
head upon his friend's shoulder, quite insensible.
The doctor drew back the lids,
and peered into his eyes ; then rapidly tore
open his shooting jacket and waistcoat. A
small wound, from which the blood was

slowly welling, was distinctly visible. The
doctor placed his hand on his pulse, and
then said : —

I can't say for certain till we probe the
wound, but I should fancy no vital organ is
touched, and that this is by no means a
hopeless case. Force some spirits between
his teeth if you have any here, and he will
soon come to himself at all events. Carry
him into the tent at once, and now let us
have a look at this one," continued the
doctor, as he turned to where Sarini lay
tightly bound hand and foot.

I don't think you need trouble much
about him," replied Jim. u There's nothing
the matter really, and he'll be quite himself
in a quarter-of-an-hour. The beggar tried
to shoot me first and knife me afterwards.
But when it came to close quarters I proved
the stronger, and was able to reciprocate
his polite attention by nearly choking the
life out of him."

Leroux had to translate this for the

benefit of the Italian medico, and lie had
also had to translate that worthy's favourable
verdict regarding Wheldrake.

At this juncture Sir Jasper arrived on
the scene. He, like the ladies, had been
aroused by the report of firearms. It must
not be supposed that the baronet had lost
much time in arriving at the spot. He
was sound asleep and in bed when the
crack of Patroceni's revolver announced
the commencement of the action, and it
must be borne in mind that the whole affair
was a matter of a very few minutes. He
had left Maude and Mrs. Pullerton in tears
of the direst dismay, fully convinced that
the butchery of their respective lovers was
in progress. Nothing but the most peremptory
orders on the part of Sir Jasper had
prevented their rushing out on to the
plateau to see what was taking place. But
the baronet was very resolute on this point
and they feared to disobey. By the time
Sir Jasper had tumbled into his clothes,

partially pacified his sister and daughter,
and stepped on to the plateau, the skirmish
was over. That there had been sharp
fighting he saw at a glance, and made his
way rapidly towards where the little group
were gathered round Sarini.

Does anybody know who this fellow
is?" inquired the police-agent. "He should
be a man of mark amongst them. Dressed
like a peasant though he is, it is easy to
see he is not of their class. Besides, there
is one distinct peculiarity about him."

And what is that, Signor Leroux ? "
inquired the doctor, inquisitively.

"Like his chief, you see," rejoined the
police-agent, " he abstained from the wine.
Not that for one moment I suppose he
don't drink it ; but the officers never frequent
the same taverns as their men."

Sir Jasper had arrived in time to hear
this last remark ; but it being couched in
Italian he was unable to understand it.
Taking off his hat to Leroux he said :

I suppose, sir, the camp is in the hands
of the police, and that I have the honour
of speaking to the chief of the party who
has rescued us ? "

Signor Leroux, at your service," replied
the police-agent, recognising at a glance
that he was speaking to Sir Jasper Eversley.
6i Yes, the canis, Patroceni, and all his men,
are in our hands, and you will he all at
liberty to depart for Naples in two or
three hours — in short, just as soon as preparations
can be made for that purpose.
But it has not been altogether without
some loss of life. Messrs. Hamilton and
Wheldrake are, I am afraid, past all our
helping."

Hamilton ? " exclaimed the baronet.
Good Heavens, how did he come here ? "

"That, Sir Jasper, I have no more idea
than you have. About a quarter-of-an-hour
ago I thought he was safe in Naples. Now
he lies there," and he pointed to the prostrate

form, over which some one had already
reverently thrown a cloak.

"The game is up, I suppose," said Sarini,
struggling as well as his hound hands would
permit him into a sitting posture. " That
cursed Englishman ! His hands were like
a vice. They choked the very life out of
me. Peel for my poignard I could not. I
wanted both my hands to try and release
my throat from his deadly grip. His
Excellency escaped?"

"No; he is a prisoner, and badly
wounded," replied Leroux.

"Are you the leader of the police?"
inquired the bandit. Leroux nodded his
head in the affirmative.

It is a marvel that you are alive," said
Sarini ; " if it had not been for the coward's
trick you played us with the wine you would
have found your task none so easy." And
the bandit dropped backwards on the grass,
and subsided into sullen silence.

But the feverish curiosity of the two
ladies was no longer to be suppressed. As
she made a hasty toilette Mrs. Eullerton
announced that she must know what was
going on even if she died for it.

I declare, my hand shakes so, Maude, I
cannot fasten my dress. Ail that firing and
shouting must have meant an attack on the
camp ; and," she continued, dropping her
voice, " something dreadful has probably
happened."

You don't think Cyril or Mr. Glanfield
have been killed, do you?" said Maude, ina
hoarse whisper.

I aren't think," rejoined her aunt, as
she clutched her by the wrist. " Come, we
must know," and, as she spoke, Mrs. Fullerton
opened the hut-door.

Leroux's quick eye was the first to catch
sight of them.

"I think, signors," said he, hurriedly,
"one of you had better interfere. This is
hardly a fit scene for ladies. Besides, one

of your party is lying dead and another
badly wounded, and women are apt to get
hysterical and slightly unmanageable at
such sights. My own appearance, too,"
he remarked, glancing down at his bloodstained
clothes, " is hardly reassuring."

"He is quite right, Sir Jasper," said
Glanfield. " Come along, we had better
speak to them at once. Not a word about
Hamilton at present, remember. They
suppose him safe in Naples, and will therefore
feel no anxiety about him."

But no sooner did they near the hut than
Maude sprang forward.

Cyril, where is Cyril ? " she exclaimed.
He is killed ; I can see it in your faces."

No, my dear Maude. I assure you he
is not," replied Sir Jasper. "Wounded,
b u t »

You are not telling me the truth," interrupted
Maude.

He is nothing of the kind," interposed
Glanfield, roughly ; " he is wounded, but not

seriously. The doctor says he'll come round
all right. This will never do," he continued,
as the girl showed symptoms of becoming
hysterical. " We want you as soon as you
have pulled yourselves together to take the
nursing in hand, between you. Take her
into the hut, Clara ; and remember, we
really want you, as soon as you've steadied
your nerves a bit."

tl It's quite true what he tells you," observed
the baronet. " There has been some
wild work, but we are free. And Whelm
though wounded, is not dangerously
so. You shall know all about it as soon as
you have composed yourselves."

It's very odd," said Glanfleld, as he and
Sir Jasper walked back towards the tent.
66 1 can't make out how Hamilton came
here; and, now I think of it, what has
become of Jackson ? "

The police-agent here met them. " I've
just been talking to the doctor," he said.
He thinks, with care, there is no reason

VOL. III. R

why Signor Wheldrake should not do well.
But, for Patroceni, my dagger bit too deep.
It was a life-and-death struggle, signors.
One cannot be delicate with one's blows
upon such an occasion. If I had not killed
him he would have killed me."

Suddenly a couple of the gendarmes were
seen coming towards them from the edge of
the wood, with a prisoner between them.
The portly butler looked perfectly dazed.
His rubicund face had lost its colour, and
his legs shook under him.

We found this man," explained one of
the escort, " hiding in the wood. We presume
he belongs to the English milord's
party."

Well, Jackson," exclaimed Glanfield, as
the butler approached them, "you seem to
have been having a lively night of it. What
is the matter with you ? "

It's no use, Mr. Glanfield, I can't stand
it. I'm not steeped in crime yet. I can't
look on at murder and keep on anticipating

my latter end. I'd sooner it came at once
and was all over than go on in this way. I
suppose they are going to settle us all now.
Such a night as I've had ! Do you know,
sir" — and he dropped his voice to a mysterious
whisper — " that the wood is full of
murdered men ? That Count and his lieutenant
are insatiable monsters. They must
have been murdering the whole blessed
night."

What ! did you see them ? "

"No, Mr. Glanneld, I only saw them
commit one— there was only one left alive
when I got to the scene of carnage. He
was a trying to wake the other corpses.
When that Count and Sarini came upon
him he grovelled for his life. Of course,
I don't know what he said, but I saw the
poor creature grovel ; and then that Count'
he shot him just as you might a rabbit,
Mr. Glanneld; and then I crept away and
hid myself in the wood, and there I've
been shivering and shaking ever since, till
r2

these two policemen found me and dragged
me out, that is, if they are policemen.
The Count and his head-man were dressed
like peasants this morning. I shall die of
horror if I am not taken out of this
charnel-house ; and as for Count Patroceni,
whether he shoots me or not I don't
care."

Well, your troubles are at an end, Jackson,"
said Sir Jasper. " The police have
had the best of it. We are free men and
shall commence our return journey to
Naples this afternoon."

"And these murderers," said Jackson,
glancing around him with scared looks,
are they still at large ? If that Count
is loose we shall never have a quiet night's
rest until we get back to England."

"You may set your mind at ease," remarked
Glanfield. " Count Patroceni' s hours
are sped, and as for his band they are to
a man in the hands of the police."

"He didn't leave many to fall into the

hands of the police 5 rejoined Jackson.
They're all lying dead by the side of the
brook there."

Then the doctor emerged from the tent.

He is going fast," he said quietly.
You struck home, Signor Leroux — an
internal hemorrhage has set in. He is very
anxious to know how the Signor Wheldrake
is, and he is also very desirous of seeing
you, signor," continued the doctor, addressing
Glanfield. " Perhaps you would not
mind coming to him at once, for he is sinking
so rapidly that I cannot undertake to
say how long he will be cor-scions or capable
of speech."

Glanfield followed the doctor into the
tent, where the dying man lay stretched on
his pallet-bed. His naturally sallow complexion
was somewhat blanched, but his
dark eyes still glittered with all the fierce,
untameable light of yore.

"Ah, Mr. Glanfield," he said, "I am
glad to have the opportunity of saying goodbye

to you. A. fine moral lesson this, to a
lover of the racecourse like you. Never
despair : luck may always turn at the last
moment. I bear you no malice, though by
this time, if the police had not intervened, I
should have shot you ruthlessly under the
necessities of the situation. I have become
a brigand by force of circumstances ; and
you know that our profession would very
speedily become almost useless if we did not
impress these two facts upon the public : —
first, that treachery to us means death ;
secondly, that if our prisoners fail to redeem
their lives we take them. Well, it was a
close shave, but the cards ran all your way
at the finish, and you have won the trick.
I am not one to whimper because I have lost
the game; and there is one comfort," he
continued, with a cynical smile, " they will
not be able to enforce the penalties for the
revoke. My time has come. I am glad to
hear that Mr. Wheldrake is likely to do
well. I am getting faint. Give me a strong

dose of that spirits and water on the table
there ; it will give me strength for a little
longer."

He swallowed two or three mouthfuls
from the cup that Glanfield silently handed
him.

That's better," he muttered. " He, like
you," he continued, " is a victim to the
exigences. Tell him the baccarat here is
played as we played it at Wrottsley. Robert
Coleman, the footman — Robert Coleman,
don't forget the name — he was hamilton's
confederate ; find him, and he can tell
you everything. And now good-bye," and
the Count extended his hand.

Glanfield clasped it, and, as he said afterwards,
" It was a queer sensation, shaking
hands with a man who had deliberately
determined on your extinction a few hours
before."

u Sarini is a prisoner, I suppose ? " said
the Count. " If he is not too badly hurt

let them bring him here. I should like to
see him again before I go.' 5

A few minutes more and Sarini, closely
guarded, entered the tent. By the police-agent's
orders they had however removed
his bonds, and the bandit was enabled to
walk freely up to the bedside of his dying
chief.

Farewell, old comrade. I have got my
death-w r ound at last. It was a strange device
by which they trapped us ; and if by
any chance you escape from their toils once
more give the police-agent who planned
this ruse — I thought to have settled with

him myself, but " and he motioned to

Sarini to stoop down to hear what he had
to say.

Sarini bent his head to listen to the dying
man's last injunctions.

I have dealt with two of our betrayers,
Hamilton and Giovanni," whispered
Patroceni. " I leave you to settle with the

third. Should you escape, avenge me on
that fox, Leroux."

If ever I should regain freedom I swear
it," replied Sarini, in a low whisper.

Patroceni feebly clasped his old comrade's
hand for a few seconds, then murmured
good-bye, ,, and turned away his face.

The doctor promptly ordered the tent to
be cleared ; and when next he went to look
at his patient the famous bandit had fallen
into that sleep that knows no waking.

CONCLUSION.

Leroux's prognostications about their all
Leaving the camp in the afternoon were not
destined to be realised. To begin with,
although a doctor had accompanied the
police force they had no ambulances on
which to move the wounded men, and the
doctor was peremptory on that point. Ee
said that Wheldrake and one of the others
must be conveyed to Naples with very i^reat
care. Awy roughing it would inevitably
bring on high lever, and in the second place
the brigands recovered so slowly from the

very strong narcotic that had been administered
to them that the marching them
into Naples was utterly impracticable. That
little knot, just opposite the stepping-stones,
who had drunk the deepest, and with whom
the revel had been most prolonged, were as
yet by no manner of means to be roused.
The whole band had of course been thoroughly
disarmed, and were now carefully
guarded. Leroux had himself seen each
thoroughly searched, and that all their
knives, poignards, or pistols were secured.

The police-agent felt there was nothing
for it but to send into Naples for ambulances,
to order carriages to come from
thence, and meet them on the Amalfi road,
and simply remain where he was until the
next morning.

It may easily be supposed that Maude
was now all impatience to go to her lover's
bedside. She protested that she was quite
calm ; that her place was there, and that it
was cruel not to allow her to see him. Her

father and Glanfield parried these attacks as
best they might ; but Mrs. Fullerton, who
had a fellow-feeling for her niece, was not
to be so easily repulsed. She got hold of
the doctor, set the whole, case before him,
and at length extracted foi him an admission
that if the young lady promised to
control herself, and that his patient, when
he awoke, showed no symptoms of aggravated
fever, he thought there would be very
little harm in her doing so.

He is at the present time in a calm
slumber, due, chiefly, to a strong composing
draught that I have administered to him.
But, I dare say that, in some two or three
hours, he will rouse himself."

But Maude, having obtained that much
permission, at once took matters into her
own hands. She glided quietly into the
tent, and, seating herself on a box by the
bedside, sat still and motionless, watching
her lover.

It was mid day before he showed signs of

restlessness. He tossed a bit on bis couch,
murmured indistinctly, and then, as be
roused himself, bis lips syllabled the word
11 water ! "

Sbe bad a cooling drink by ber side, and
in a moment bad raised the tumbler to ibis
parched lips. He swallowed a few mouthfuls,
and then said :

Where am I ? What does it all mean ?
Maude, my dearest, you here ? Ah ! I remember
now. I ran to Glanfield's assistance,
but was shot down. My side is very
sore, and I feel terribly weak. But bow did
you come here ?"

W T e are never going to part again, Cyril.
They have given me leave to nurse you, and
I will soon have you well again, darling,
when I once get you down to Naples. Weare
to stay here for the night, while they
get ambulances, carriages, and things to
carry you and the others into the city."

What others ? Tell me what has happened."


I will, Cyril, if you promise not to talk.
You must know that there are others hurt
besides you. The police attacked the camp,
and have captured the whole band ; but
there was fighting over it, and several of
them were badly wounded — Count Patroceni
himself, I believe, mortally. The doctor
says you are all right, and will come round
with careful nursing ; and I will take care,
my own, that you don't want for that ; and
now, you mustn't talk any more. I have
promised not to let you excite yourself. Try
and go to sleep again."

I'll do my best, Maude; but I can't say.
I think there is much hope of it. Is Jim
Glanfield all right ? "

Yes, Mr. Glanfield is quite unhurt. I
heard him say that he had pretty nearly
choked the life out of somebody, so I am
afraid that is more than his assailants can
say : and now not another word."

And when did you say we were to leave
here ?

But Maude shook her head, put her finger
on her lips, and resumed her old seat on the
box.

In the course of the afternoon Sir Jasper
went to have one more look at his luckless
nephew. The body had been moved from
the place where he had been slain, and was
now placed in the same tent with his murderer.
The two men lay side by side, all
rancour and hatred between them extinguished
by the universal destroyer. It
might be said that they had mutually cost
each other their lives ; for, had it not been
for Patroceni's ill-starred visit to England,
and all that came of it, the probabilities are
Sir Jasper and his party would never have
set foot in Italy. The baronet has drawn
back the sheet that covers them, and is
gazing mournfully into the two faces, set in
all the calm placidity of death. Softened as
men's faces are

Before decay's effacing fingers
Have swept the lines where beauty lingers."

Yes, " the rapture of repose " was there.
These two restless spirits slept as tranquilly
as if their lives had been less turbulent.

They are both gone, Sir Jasper," said
Glanfield, in a low tone ; " it's not a twelvemonth
since they blackened poor Cyril's
name at Wrottsley, and they have both
expiated the crime. I'm not much of a
moralist, but it looks as if Providence
checked such sins as theirs off rather
rapidly. Well! the Count cleared Cyril's
name before he died.

Do you mean to say," said the baronet,
in a whisper, as he quietly replaced the
sheet, "that Wheldrake can be proved
innocent ? "

Yes ; it is no place to speak of it here.
I don't want to pass harsh judgment over
those gone to their account and yet lying
unburied; but I can explain everything
that took place that night at Wrottsley, and
as soon as we get to England pledge myself
to produce their confederate."

"Only do that, Glanfield, and yon will
make me the happiest man in England."

Glanfield's sole reply was a hearty hand-grip,
and then the two men left the tent.

As the day wore on the brigands slowly
began to recover; they had slept off their
opiate and came to themselves in various
states of sorrow and sadness. Recovery
from a severe opiate is of itself apt to be
woefully depressing ; but when to that you
add the awaking to find yourself in the
hands of the police, with a vista of imprisonment,
the galleys, or possible execution
before you, the salt of existence seems
indeed to have lost its savour. A more
crestfallen crew than these men of the
mountain it was scarcely possible to picture.
Their captors treated them with contemptuous
good-nature; but it is to be
regretted that one denizen of the camp
showed undue exultation at the discomfiture
of his foes. Old Jackson could not
resist walking about amongst them and

VOL. III. s

giving vent to chuckles of satisfaction and
sarcastic taunts at their present positions.

You wine swilling pigs ! this is what
comes of not taking your liquor like
gentlemen ! It's time savages like you
were suppressed ! Savages who don't know
what's due to upper-servants ! The idea
of leaving a man in my position to sleep
out on the grass all night as if he were
a hare! You will see what nice little
lodgings they will find for you when they
get you into Naples." In short, old Jackson's
conduct was far from magnanimous
when he found himself on the winning
side.

In the course of the next day Leroux
found himself ready to move. Wheldrake
had passed a good night, and the doctor's
other cases were progressing favourably.
The brigands were handcuffed two and two.
Sarini was escorted with a special guard,
and the cortege moved down the mountain
by the nearest cut to the Anialfi road, where

carriages were waiting to convey Sir Jasper
and his party back to Naples.

Their arrival created no little curiosity in
the city. People flocked to get a glimpse of
the famous bandit, little dreaming that his
remains and those of Captain Hamilton
were in the covered litter that followed the
cortege — indeed, as the police with their
prisoners passed through the street, Sarini
was generally mistaken for his dead chief.
As soon as they were comfortably installed
in their hotel, the death of Hamilton was
broken to Mrs. Fullerton and Maude, and
the two women were unfeignedly shocked at
the tidings ; for, whatever his sin against
Maude and Wheldrake, it had been severely
expiated; and how loyally he had performed
his task as envoy to arrange for the
ransom Leroux was able to testify.

The next day they laid him to rest in the
cemetery; and even Clan field, who judged
his conduct past all extenuation, muttered a

prayer for the dead man's soul as he stood
by his grave.

It was a week or two, yet, before they
could set sail for England. Wheldrake's
return to convalescence was tedious. Although
he progressed, on the whole, favourably,
he was not without what are almost
inevitable in a recovery from severe illness
" his bad days." The fever, consequent
upon his wound, clung to him, and made
Maude, at times, excessively anxious. As
for the luckless bandits, if the authorities
had been slow to take measures against
them they lost no time in meting out
punishment for their misdeeds. Sarini and
two more made a bitter ending of it one
morning at daybreak, while the remainder
were translated to the galleys for a term
of years that left small chance of their ever
again resuming their profession. "Whelm
was at last pronounced sufficiently
well to be moved, and the whole party

embarked for England without further
delay.

On their arrival, Glanfield ordered Chisel
to lose no time in discovering the whereabouts
of Robert Coleman. That he had
left Wrottsley they, of course, knew from
Jackson ; still Chisel expected to have no
difficulty about laying his hand upon him.
But in this they were at first doomed to
disappointment. Chisel could learn no
tidings of him whatever. He had come to
London and, apparently, disappeared in the
whirlpool of the metropolis. Glanfield, to
begin with, contented himself with putting
an advertisement in the papers to the effect
that if Robert Coleman would call upon
Messrs. Seeling and What (his solicitors)
he would hear of something to his advantage.
But some days passed and this
elicited no response. Mr. Coleman, it maybe
remembered, was in the strict retirement
of one of her Majesty's gaols, and, consequently,
not likely to see the journals.

Glanfield was talking this over in the
smoking-room of this club one evening
with an intimate friend of both his and
Wheldrake's, and explaining to him why he
was so anxious to find this Robert Coleman.
"What to clear Cyril Wheldrake of a
false imputation of card-sharping ? By
Jove! you know, the man must be found.
Just let me look at the advertisement. In
all the dailies, you say ? " and as he spoke
Glanfield's companion rose and fetched a
paper from an adjoining table. " Oh," he
continued, " here it is, c something to his
advantage. Apply to Seeling and What,
Lincoln's Inn Fields.' That is not quite the
sort of advertisement, my dear Jim, to fetch
him. I know the sort of firm, old family
solicitors, very guarded and cautious. No,
no, this won't do ; advertise tomorrow :
c Twenty pounds reward to any-one who will
give information concerning the whereabouts
of Robert Coleman. Apply to James Cranfield,
Esq. Blenheim Club, Pall Mall. 5

You'll find that you'll get an answer to that
before the week's out."

Glanfield followed his friend's advice, and
speedily found his prediction realised.

Mr. Samuel Bludd has only flitted across
these pages in fugitive fashion — has indeed
no bearing on this history, except for his
fleeting connection with Robert Coleman.
It may remembered, after squeezing that
unfortunate till he had left him as dry as a
sucked orange, he adopted him as a companion
in fraud; that the result was disastrous
; and that the penalty was paid, as is
too often the case, by the neophyte, while
the hardened criminal went scatheless. To a
man of Mr. Bludd' s pursuits the perusal of
what is termed the "Agony Column" in the
daily papers was a mere matter of business.
He never expected to hear of anything to
his advantage, but he had over and over
again found advertisements that with a little
dexterity on his part he had made turn out
highly profitable to himself. No sooner did

he catch sight of this notice than Mr. Bludd
thought to himself, '" I can furnish them
with the necessary information. This don't
look like a plant, and to pick up a twenty-pound
note is worth running a little risk
for ; I'll chance it." Accordingly Glanfield
received a line from him the next day to say
that the writer, for the consideration advertised,
would put him in possession of the
information he required, provided no further
questions were asked, and would call upon
him at the Blenheim about six o'clock that
afternoon.

True to his tryst Mr. Bludd arrived at
that hour, and was immediately shown into
a small room off the hall devoted hy the
members to seeing people on business.

Glanfield was not the man to make a
muddle of an interview of this nature. He
reckoned up Mr. Bludd at a glance, and
knew exactly the line to take with a man
of his calibre.

Now, Mr. Bludd," he said, as he entered

the room where that gentleman was awaiting
him, " let's understand each other at
once ; there's nothing like plain speaking
on these occasions. ' No further questions
asked,' I presume means that you and
Robert Coleman have been engaged in
some affair in which publicity is not desirable.
I want to know nothing about
that. I mean no harm to Robert Coleman ;
on the contrary, there is another twenty
pounds for him if he will only answer
two or three questions I wish to put to
him — questions which can by no possibility
bring him into any trouble."

A very shrewd man was Mr. Bludd, and
he had already divined that Robert Coleman
was wanted with reference to the
Wrottsley card case. But then the papers
had rung with the Amain tragedy. Mr.
Bludd knew perfectly well that Hamilton
was dead, and that when his " tear friend,"
Robert Coleman, was released from prison
the game of change was over.

VOL. III. T

Very well, sir," he replied. " I knows
a gentleman when I sees him, bless you.
Write me a cheque for the twenty pounds,
and I will give you Robert Coleman's
address."

"You're a little too fast, my friend,"
replied Glanfield, curtly. " I must have a
little more guarantee as to the truth of
your story."

Look here, Mister Glanfield, write mea
cheque dated the day after tomorrow.
That will give you tomorrow to see if it
is right or not. Go to Millbank and ask
for Robert Coleman under the name of
Charles Harrison. That's right, help me.
He's in there doing time."

That'll do," said Jim, and sitting down
to the table he wrote a cheque for the
amount and handed it over to Mr. Bludd.
Then," he said, " if I find your information
all right you'll get your money; if
not, you'll find that cheque stopped at the
bank."

That'll do, Mr. Glanfield. That's right,
sir. You'll find Robert Coleman tomorrow.
Good-night, sir. I only wish there was
somebody else's address you were wanting
at the same price. Dash me ! " muttered
the Jew, as he walked down the club steps,
"how I should like to sell the whole
London Directory on the same terms ! "

Glanfield went down to Millbank the
next day, armed with an order to see
Robert Coleman, alias Charles Harrison.
He found the ex-footman in a very crestfallen
condition, and only too glad on
hearing of Hammered death, and the
promise of a twenty-pound note on his discharge,
to confess his share of the "W rottsley
business. He was, he said, paid by hamilton
to wait until the card-table broke
up, and, when the players retired to rest, he
stole into the drawing-room and abstracted
all the superfluous nines. " On the occasion
of Jackson's discovery he had been so
tired the previous evening that he had gone

vol. in. TJ

to bed, intending to get np early and rearrange
the cards ; but he had overslept
himself, and, when he rushed down stairs to
the drawing-room, Jackson had anticipated
both him and the other footman, and was
already re-sorting the cards."

With Coleman's confession, written out
and attested, Sir Jasper was only too glad
to withdraw the remnants of his opposition
to Wheldrake's marriage with his daughter ;
while, when Glanfield told the whole story
of Patroceni's confession, supported by the
written testimony of the ex-footman, club-land
gladly welcomed back one of its most
popular denizens within its various walls.

My story is told. That the bells were
ringing at Wrottsley, and the famous
Wrottsley ale a-humming in honour of a
double wedding before three months were
over, must be a fact patent to all readers of
this narrative; and that Jackson should
regale the housekeeper's room with wondrous
accounts of his adventures among the

brigands may be easily conceived. In the
course of years the wondrous tale so grew
in the telling, that the graphic account of
how he (Jackson) slew Patroceni and saved
the lives of his master and his friends became
quite the accepted version ; and there
was an undefined feeling that the Victoria
Cross was by no means bestowed impartially.


THE END.

Westminster: Printed by Nichols and Sons, 25, Parliament Street, S.W.

3 0112 042046141
