OF THE

U N ever S City

or Ill Noise

QZ3

SmG\s



V. i

AN

HISTORICAL ROMANCE.

By J. F. SMITH,

AUTHOR OF

minnigbey;' ^^ woman and her masters

'' WILL AND THE WA F," Etc.

VOL. I.

Illustrated hy SIR JOHN GILBERT, R.A.,

AND OTHER EMINENT ARTISTS.

I M^ I

LONDON :
BRADLEY & CO., 12 and 13, FETTER LANE, Eg.

MDCCCLXXXVIII.

Printed BY C. W. BRADLEY AND CO.

12 AND 13, FETTER LANE, Eg.

CONTENTS.

PACK.

I, The Franklin's DAUcanEii 3

II. Haga the Druid — Uleick thk Oiti'irAN's Dancer . 19

III. The Double Arrest — Hei{.man"s Defeat . . .38

IV. The Secret Passage— Spaniels in Flames — Enumerate

53

V. The Poison— The Prayer— The Ordeal . 67

VI. Father and Son — The Druid's Gave — Edith and Edda 84

VII. Ulric'k's Escape — Death ok Fatiiki; Oswald and

Ernulf i){)

VIII. Ulricic Proclaimed Earl di Cranfield — The

AliDUCTION lid

IX. RoiiEitT OE Artois Foiled lv Isahei 131

X. The Vow of Vengeance — SiicciE of Filhv Castle . 149

XI. The Hebrew Physician lijtj

XII, The Jew's Revenge — The (Iiieat Council — Flight

OF Prince William . . .' . . . 182

XIII. The Punishment of RoitEirr of Artois . . . 199

XIV. A Good Samaritan . .215

XV. On THE Road— A Strange ExcorNTEi; . . , . 231

XVI. The Black Knk.ht — Ulrkk San kd ikom the Gibbet 247

XVII. The King's O.VTH— A Father's Cfisf . , . . 263

XVIII. Arrest ov Hester the Jewess 279

XIX. Hester's Deliverance 293

XX. Hester Restored to Life — Fate of William Rufus 310

XXT. Marriage of Henry and matilda— The Heiress of

Stan field 329

XXII. Ulrick Falsely Accused 341;

XXIII. The Sisters— A Terrible Revelation. . . .3(54

XXIV. Father and Dau(;titer — Fouoivkn 382

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/stanfieldhallhis01smit

CHAPTER L

Cranfield Hall, the scene of so many remarkable events and
fearful crimes, is one of the oldest manors in England. It is called
in the Norman register, known by the name of " Doomsday-book,"
Stainsfields, and sometimes Stanfells. It seems to have been erected
into a lordship as early as the Heptarchy, having probably been
held at that remote period by one of the powerful franklins of the
East Angles.

In the reign of Edward the Confessor it was possessed by the rich
and ancient family of Hale, or Held, as they are denominated in the
chronicles of Walter of Comtesse, a monkish writer of the twelfth
century, whose quaint histories and obscure Latin will well repay
the labour of those who have either time or patience to pore over
his dusty manuscripts.

At the period at which our tale commences — the year preceding
the fatal battle of Hastings — it was the chief residence of HerwaM
de Hale, so called by all the Norman writers — the distinctive particle
de marking their acknowledgment of the nobility of the
powerful Saxon, who was more familiarly known to those of his
own race as Herwald of Stanfells, or Herwald of the Tower.

Cranfield, in the age of which we write, presented a far different
appearance from the present comparatively modern pile, which
offers a fair specimen of the mixed domestic architecture which
characterised the reign of Elizabeth ; a low range of buildings, built
of sunburnt bricks and rough stones, inclosed a large quadrangular
court, capable, in case of need, of containing the herds of cattle
which formed no inconsiderable portion of the wealth of the Saxon,
proprietor. The windows — if the unglazed apertures might be so
designated — were all to the interior, a few narrow loopholes only
being left in the outward walls for the purpose of reconnoitring or
defence. The place, or holm, as the buildings were called, was still
further strengthened bv irregular towers at its respective angles.

B 2

The principal tower, from which the Saxons gave to the lord of
Stans ells his distinctive appellation, was a lofty building, with more
pretension to architectural ornament than the rest. Over the low,
circular arched door was a rudely-sculptured shield, displaying a
bittern in the centre of a cross engrailed — the arms, doubtless, of its
founder ; but how obtained, or by whom bestowed, it might puzzle
the Heralds' College to decide. A corresponding door on the opposite
side of the tower admitted into the interior of the quadrangle,
of which it formed the principal object and defence. The lands
surrounding the edifice were rich pasture, well drained by irregular
channels, cut to convey the water to the extensive moat, which said
moat was crossed by a rude drawbridge of Avoid, which partially
extended over the stream, and rested on an irregular bridge of stone,
whose arches reached to the middle only of the moat. The drawbridge
was capable of being either removed or destroyed upon the
first approach of danger. Low, thick woods extended from the
clear pasture lands even to the limits of the town of Wynmondham,
or Wyndham, as the inhabitants now call it, then celebrated as the
residence of a sainted anchorite, upon the ruins of whose cell the
present church is built. These woods served as the retreat of vast
herds of swine, which lived in a half-savage state within its almost
impervious recesses, and served as shelter to the deer and game for
which that part of England has so long been celebrated.
Herwald of the Tower, the owner of the edifice we have endeavoured
to describe, was a true Saxon, generous, fierce, and impetuous
a mixture of the good and evil qualities of his unhappy race.
Passionately addicted to war, and its mimic pastime the chase, his
character naturally bore the impress of his pursuits. He was proud
of his wealth and lineage, but still prouder of the object in which
they were both to centre — his only child, Edith, the heiress of
Cranfield, and many a fair broad land beside. Resolute aa .the
franklin was, he had seldom been known to resist the slightest wish
of his daughter, who might without impropriety have been called
Our Lady of Bon Scour's by all who stood in fear of her impetuous
father's resentment. As good as she was beautiful, even the
extravagant indulgence of her sire had tailed to spoil her — an
indulgence more frequently forced upon her than sought. Edith
possessed neither the blue eyes nor fair hair so characteristic of her
race ; on the contrary, her tresses might have vied with the raven's
wing in blackness ; her eyes, of the same colour, were chastened in
their brilliancy by a melancholy expression, which seemed to foreshadow
some impending doom ; but the maiden's complexion was
fair as e'en the fairest of her race — so pure, so transparent, and so
clear, that her rising thoughts might be read in roseate changes, as
clouds are seen reflected on the bosom of some tranquil lake. To
the advantage of personal beauty, Edith added that of simple as
Avell as rich attire.

It is true the arms and neck of the noble Saxon maiden-were
circled with jewelled bracelets and a collar of gold — ornaments
indispensable to her birth and station ; but her robes were made in
the simplest form, and generally of white ; the girdle which bound
them to her slender waist being of needlework, and matching with
the embroidered hem of the ample veil which floated round her.

It was in a costume much like the one we have attempted to .
describe that Edith, surrounded by her handmaidens and two or
three officers of her father's household, stood, at the close of a cold
autumnal day, within the narrow entrance of the principal tower of
Cranfield, to await the franklin's return. Darkness already obscured
the horizon, and a shower of sleet began to fall.

I wish," exclaimed Judith, Edith's favourite attendant and
foster sister, shivering, and drawing her wimple closer round her
shoulders, " our master would return, or that you, noble lady, would
retire to your chamber : the sleet reaches you even here ; and it is
not so long," she added, in a lower tones " since your illness, that
you should unnecessarily brave it. Be persuaded, dear lady, and
let us in."

Not so," mildly replied Edith, whom the whispered allusion to
her illness had evidently disconcerted, but not angered. " Thou
knowest, Judith, that my father is displeased if his daughter's step
fail to meet him at the threshold on his return ; and I must not
anger him. Disobedience in a child is a sin ; in me it would, I
ween, be a fearful one," she added, tears suffusing her eyes as she
spoke, " having so kind a parent."

The kindest are sometimes unreasonable," thought Judith, who,
however, was far too prudent to give utterance to her imagination,
certain that it would be disapproved by her young mistress. Perhaps
her knowledge of her lady's secret cause of uneasiness was
present to her ideas, for she knew that Edith loved, and that her
love was not blessed with her father's smile.

Our master will soon be here," exclaimed old Hubert, the
nominal seneschal of the holm — we say nominal, for, on account of
his great age and blindness, the duties of his office were performed
by his nephew, Huon, a sturdy man-at-arms, whose tender assiduities
had, it was supposed by the gossips of the household, at length
found favour with the pretty Judith.

Soon be here, indeed ! " he repeated ; " why, uncle, do you
pretend to the gift of second sight ? Our eyes are young, and keen
enough, yet we can discover no traces of our lord's approach."

If my eyes are dim, boy," answered the old man, " praise to St.
Cuthbert, my ears are as true as ever. Hark ! " he added, forming
a hollow with his hand to his ear, to aid the sense as he spoke,
black Hubert is giving tongue right merrily. There are other dogs
than our lord's," he added, after a pause, during which the rest of
the attendants, who had more faith in his perception than his

ungracious nephew, had vainly listened for the distant sounds ;
** some stranger of note is with our master. In, knaves, in, and prepare
for the reception of an honoured guest."

By Hengist, lady, but old Hubert is right," said Judith, who at
last caught the distant baying of the deep-mouthed hounds ; "your
honoured father approaches.; but whether accompanied by guests
or no is more than I can guess or tell, though any guest were
welcome, provided he were young and handsome, to these old
towers."

Peace, Judith," answered her mistress, with a smile, " thy
tongue outruns discretion. See ! " she added, as the hunting
party appeared in sight, emerging from the thick umbrageous
wood, " my honoured father comes ; let us forth to meet him."

Scarcely had the expecting party, who followed their young
mistress, gained the drawbridge, than the hunters reached it. The
franklin, a hale, powerful man of fifty, was the first to cross it.
Leaping from his horse, which he left to his numerous attendants
to catch, he hastily approached his lovely child.

Why, how now, Edith, bird ! " he exclaimed. " Why have you
quitted your tapestried nook to expose your cheek to the keen
blast ? This is no night for maidens to be abroad in. Come," he
added, throwing his mantle round her shoulders, after kissing heron
the forehead, " let us in. I must see you with your brightest
eyes and sweetest smile to-night — we have a guest at Cranfield."
Her father indicated with a glance at the conclusion of his speech
a man about five-and-twenty, who was in the act of dismounting,
that he might in a more seemly manner jiav his homage to the Lady
Edith.

My uncle said we should have guests," muttered Huon, aside ;
but little did I dream that it would be our lord's nephew. What
brings him here ? The old scent, I suppose."

Whatever brings him," whispered Judith, who had overheard
the observation, " it bodes our lady no good. Why, the two years
accorded by her father are not yet expired ! "

Perhaps," answered Huon, " he comes to renounce his claim to
the Lady Edith's hand, seeing that she hath scant love for him."

He renounce his claim to her hand ! " answered Judith, her lips
curling with scorn. " No, no ; you know him too well to think or
hope it. .He will never renounce it while she is the heiress of
broad lands, or his craven heart thirsts for gold. He resign her I
As well ask thy hawk, Master Huon, to forego its prey, when poised
to make tie deadly swoop, or lure the bloodhound from the track
it hath followed for days, as expect Herman of the Burg to forego
the prize which he believes to be within his reach."

Believes within his reach ! If our lord's will does not alter, he
is sure it is within his reach."

Perhaps," replied the damsel, with a smile of intelligence ;

but wills as stern as the franklin's have ere now been thwarted,
and by a thing as weak as woman's resolution."

The effect produced by the appearance of Herman of the Burg
upon the lovely Edith was most distressing ; the blood forsook her
lips and cheeks, and her mild eyes where cast hopelessly round, as
if to seek a refuge from some impending evil. Her wily suitor
either did not or would not notice her distress ; with a high-bred
courtesy, whose refinement was a mockery, he half-bent the knee
as he saluted his cousin's hand ; his triumphant glance gave the lie
to the humility of the action — the latter was for his uncle, the former
for his intended victim.

Come, my children," uttered Herwald, who at last perceived his
daughter's agitation, " this is no place for greeting. You, Herman,
go and change your rough riding gear — women love not to look
upon soiled garments and stained plumes ; and you, Edith," he
added, " to jour tire-women. Remember," he whispered, in reply
to her glance of supplication, '' your brightest smiles and gayest
robes to-night."

The passionate fondness of the Saxon franklin for his daughter
will at first, perhaps, appear to our readers incompatible with the
violence which he evidently placed upon her inclinations. A few
words will explain the seeming incongruity. Herman of the Burg
was the heir of his name, and consequently preferred by him as a
suitor for his daughter's hand.

In Herwald the love for his child, deep and indulgent as was the
sentiment, was second only to his pride of ancestry. No other
Saxon, no matter how noble his lineage, how valiant his achievements,
could perpetuate to his race the name which he himself so
proudly bore, and to this vain pride the happiness of his child was
to be coldly sacrificed.

Indulgent to excess in every other matter, he would listen to no
remonstrance to this. Two years previous to the commencement
of our history he had quarrelled violently with his oldest friend
and brother in arms, Edda, the Saxon, because his son Edward had
presumed to love his daughter. In birth, disposition, and fortune
they were equal. As children they were reared together. The
gentle disposition of the gallant boy had won the maiden's heart,
and they mutually loved, in the confiding innocence of their natures,
before they were aware that the fatal passion had found an entrance
to their souls. Time at length revealed to Edward the nature of his
hopes and wishes.

His high sense of honour told him how to act. He sought his
father, confessed his passion, and besought him to demand the hand
of Edith of the franklin. The result of their interview has been
already stated. The taro fathers, who had so long been sworn
friends, parted declared enemies ; each commanding their offspring
never to think of such a marriage more.

How easy it is for parents to utter commands which the heart
finds it impossible to obey ! Edith, who till that moment had
found her chief happiness in fulfilling her father's wishes, for
the first time in her life found them harsh and difficult. Edward,
till then all submission to his venerable parent, declared obedience
impossible. Vainly they strove to forget each other — memory had
too fondly treasured each loved image in its shrine for mere commands
to part them. In short, aided by the faithful Judith, whose
indignation at her master's cruelty was often loudly and vehemently
expressed, the lovers contrived to *meet. Eloquence is doubly
persuasive when uttered by those we love. Edward succeeded ;
and the unhappy Edith was, at the period of which we write, in
secret both a wife and mother.

Now, may the Mother of Heaven aid me ! " exclaimed the unhappy
Edith, as soon as she had reached her chamber, throwing
herself at the same time mp. the neck of the faithful Judith. " The
hour I have so long dreaded has arrived — the hour when I must
brave a father's curse. Oh, the sin," she added, stinging her hands
as she spoke, " the bitter sin of disobedience I "

Be comforted, dear lady," soothingly uttered her attendant,
alarmed at the despair of her mistress. " Your noble father loves
you dearer than aught on earth. He will never resist your prayers
and tears. Besides, you have an advocate in your fair boy. Think
you, that when he sees the heir of his proud name, the son of his
loved Edith, his iron nature will not at last give way ? Besides," she
added, with a half-smile, " at the worst, it is but running away.
Your lord hath a fair castle to receive and brave friends to protect
you. Things are never so bad but that they may be mended, or but
they might be worse,"

This visit, this ill-omened visit ! " murmured Edith, scarcely
conscious of the utterance of her thoughts. " This very night, too,
I was to have seen my Edward."

And your boy, your fair, sweet boy ! " interrupted Judith, willing
to change the current of her thoughts. " You must think of
him, act for him. I would that black Herman had met the foul
fiend in his path ere he had crossed yours. But since it is so, let's
meet him bravely. At ten to-night your lord and infant will arrive
at my mother's cottage. The little rogue, how I do long to kiss
him ! You must contrive to see him, and consult what is to be
done."

Impossible ! I must remain within the banquet hall. You
heard my father's words ? And even supposing I could contrive to
escape the feast, how quit the manor ? "

Leave that to me," answered Judith. * " Huon keeps the keys,
and never more shall he have smile or fair word of me unless he do
my bidding. And now," she continued, " dear lady', let me arrange
your hair. Your veil is damp with the night dew and the sleet.

The bell will soon sound, and your noble father is impatient of being
kept waiting."

Edith, seating herself upon a faldstool, resigned herself into the
busy hand of her attendant, who, removing the veil and fastening
from her mistress's head, suffered her long tresses to flow for a few
seconds over her shoulders, while she sought in a small, quaintly-carved
ivory cabinet a rich circlet of gems to replace the simple
bandeau which she had removed.

"While so occupied Edith sat like a statue of Grief, fair in its pensive
loveliness, her long hair, like a sable veil, shading her pallid
features ; her pure heart torn by the agony of conflicting emotions ;
her mind absorbed, calmed by the intenseness of its agonies.

The hall was illuminated by pine torches, and huge candles of
coarse tallow placed in iron sconces at irregular distances on the
wall. The logs of v/ood burned briskly in the vide chimneys their
dancing flames and crackling embers sent forth a genial heat, and
gave an almost comfortable appearance to the desolate apartment.

The broad-chested staghounds were lying at their ease before the
fire, fatigued by the day's protracted chase. A careless observer
would, from their half-closed eyes, have pronounced them sleeping ;
but whenever a fresh footstep fell on the rough stone pavement the
open eye and wickeder shoved that they v; ere wakeful" attentive
to all that passed.

The numerous domestics had already placed the manchet bread
and spiced cover, when Herwald entered the hall, accompanied by
Herman and others of his guests. His pet hound rose lazily to
meet him, and with the familiarity of ah admitted favourite, thrust
his long nose into the franklins hand, in order to attract his attention
and obtain the customary caress.

Down, Odin, down ! " cried his master, peevishly, his displeasure
excited at the absence of his daughter Edith, who had not yet made
her appearance. " What do the hounds do here ? Is there no
cheney at Stanfield,that Ave must have them in our very chambers ?
See to it, knaves, for the future, and force me not to look to it."

The faithful animal was not to be repulsed bywords, but continued
to press his claim to notice, the canine courtier not knowing, like
his human brother, that there are moments of ennui in the lives of
despots when even flattery offends and homage fatigues — a truth
of which poor Odin soon received a practical illustration. An
impatient kick sent him howling to a distant corner of the apartment.


Come," continued Herwald, '* let us to the feast, and you, Huon,
must serve my cup to-night. It seems my child hath forgot it is her
father's hour of service."

Not for lack of being reminded," said Herman. " For 'tis not
so long since you bade her to the feast."

Humph ! " muttered the franklin ; '' that speech were better

from her father's lips. Thou hast scant courtesy, Herman, in that
rugged heart of thine, and I sometimes wish that thou wert
other than my brother's son. What right hast thou to blame
her?"

The wily nej^he w perceived that he had gone too far. Herwald's
parental love and pride took the alarm that another should presume
to blame his child. Herman knew that his uncle loved him not for
himself, but as the heritor of his name, and that, if provoked, he
was capable of sacrificing even the fixed purpose of his life to Edith's
tears and his own resentment.

You deal not fairly with me, noble franklin," he replied. " You
first cut short my speech, then blame me for its harshness. I was
about to express my fear that the keen blast and sleet which blanched
my cousin's cheek had chilled her blood. That illness might "

Illness ! " interrupted Herwald, his love to Edith changing the
current of his thoughts. " What a churl am I to blame her ! It
must be so. I marked her pallid cheek and clouded eye, and thought
they both proceeded from a different cause. Now, knaves, can ye
not stir ? Haste to your lady's chamber ; tell her "

His further words were cut short by the entrance of Edith, who
at last had mustered sufficient courage to meet her father's glance —
to endure her cousin's detested assiduities.

Why, this is well," cried the franklin, kindly taking her by the
hand to lead her to a seat, his eye glancing in approbation on her
improved attire. " Our feast were dull, Edith, without thy presence.
To your places," he added, turning to his guests. " Our worthy
chaplain will ask the blessing, and my daughter speak her father's
welcome."

The portly ecclesiastic spoke the hurried benediction, and the
flowing wine cup soon began to circle in the hall of Cranfield.

In a distant chamber of the holm a different scene was passing.
Hubert, the aged seneschal, was sleeping in a rough settle lined
with deer-skin, beside a smouldering fire, whose red, flickering
blaze, as it alternately rose and fell, gave a Rembrandt-like expression
to his features. His bunch of ponderous keys hung on a hook
within reach of his shrivelled hand ; the doors had all been fastened
for the night, and the faithful servitor, conscious that he had fulfilled
his duty, was indulging in repose.

The sounds of revelry came louder and louder, when Huon,
followed by Judith, appeared cautiously at the door of the chamber
in which his uncle sat ; and, after reconnoitring awhile, slowly, and
with the stealthy pace of a cat, approached the old man's chair.
His manner would have seemed suspicious, had not the open, manly
expression on his roiigh, handsome face, and the half-laughing,
half-anxious countenance of the damsel, who was watching him,
precluded all idea of any sinister design.

Comparatively noiseless as were the steps of Huon, they fell

upon the sleeper's ear, or perchance his breath fell upon his aged
face as he leant over him to reach the keys ; for at the very moment
he grasped them, Hubert awoke, and caught the culprit's receding
arm.

Eh ! what ? " exclaimed the seneschal, " have we thieves in
Cranfield ? What, ho ! help ! knaves ' Help, I say ! "

Fortunately at that moment a fresh burst from the banquet
chamber covered the speaker's voice.

Silence, uncle, silence ! " whispered Huon, "tis I, yOur nephew.
Have you been dreaming ? or do you suppose that I am come to rob
you?"

I don't know," replied the old man, suspiciously, " the world
has grown so changed and wicked. What want you with the keys ?
The gates are all made fast ■; and without the franklin's order, none
may enter or have egress to-night."

Pshaw, uncle, our master carouses ; would you have me disturb
him for a trifle like this ? It is only for Judith, who is anxious to
visit her mother's cottage to-night ; her young lady hath given her
permission to be absent, and — here, Judith," he added, " come and
speak for yourself."

The maiden advanced and laid her hand upon the arm of the
valiant guardian, half-smiling and half-pouting as she did so.

Come, Hubert, you surely won't refuse me," she said ; "my poor
mother is ill, and tarts to see her child."

Well, well," replied the old man, gradually relaxing his grasp
upon the keys, for Judith was a favourite with him, " I am glad it
is no worse. Thou art a duteous child," he added ; " unlike my
fostering scapegrace ; thou canst honour grey hairs. There, take
the key ; but who is to go with thee ? True, the land is quiet, and
there is little fear of robbers, but still it is not seemly that my old
summer's daughter should cross the wold like a wayfarer or runaway
serf."

I shall accompany her, uncle ; under my care it must be a bold
arm that would do her wrong."

Huon's glance of affection as he spoke was answered by Judith
with a corresponding one of innocent confidence

Ho, ho ! " laughingly exclaimed the old man, " what ! is my
dainty springer caught at last ? Huon," he added, checking his
tone and speaking in a more serious voice, " this must be no light
of love."

Uncle "

Well, well — there now, 111 trust thee — I'll trust to thee," and
the aged man sank chuckling in his warm seat by the fire, his
thoughts gradually becoming confused, wandering from Huon and
Judith to the recollection of his own all but forgotten boyish
passion.

In an hour meet me at the gate," whispered Judith to her

lover. " Bj'tliat time the household v/ill have retired to rest, and I
may pass forth unperceived."

But my guerdon," replied the squire, not willing to be baulked
of his promised reward.

Out on thee for an unreasonable creditor ! " said his mistress.
Wouldst have me stay thy service before it is performed ? It were
poor wisdom that."

Huon, expecting that he should have a fair opportunity of urging
his suit during their walk to the cottage, grumblingly submitted to
the postponement of the kiss, the bribe for which he had been
tempted to steal the keys from his uncle, to whose charge, after the
fastening of the doors, they were invariably given.

On reaching her chamber, Judith found her young mistress, who,
under the plea of indisposition, had contrived to withdraw from the
banquet, awaiting her return. The triumphant confidence of Herman
terrified her ; her father's open allusion, when warmed with
wine, to her approaching union too plainly told her how fixed was
his resolution, how hopeless the chance of moving him from his
long-settled purpose ; and the timid girl, with a firmness springing
from desperation, almost rejoiced at the insuperable bar which her
secret marriage placed to the intended union.

A few moments under the hand of her nimble confidante served
to remove the jewels and gas' attire, which, in obedience to the
franklin, she had assumed. A dark dress and linen wimple supplied
their place ; and as they passed forth together the heiress of
Cranfield might have been taken by any straggling domestic for a
fellow servant passing to perform some household duty.

How now ? " whispered Huon, as they reached the gate whereby
appointment, he waited the arrival of Judith ; " a companion !
This is more than I bargained for, surely," he added, in a tone of
reproach, " you cannot mistrust me ? "

And surely," said his mistress, in a corresponding voice, " you
cannot judge so lightly of me as to suppose that I would quit the
holm at such an hour alone with any man. No, Huon, no. Evil
tongues are too often busy with a maiden's fame. They may say I
have a careless laugh and a light word, but none shall say my acts
were not of honesty and virtue."

Tell me, at least, who is to be our companion," he replied, at the
same time opening the great door.

Edith, who overheard the words, passed hastily through.
Humph ! it can't be old Alice," he continued ; " her step is too
nimble for her."

Perhaps," said Judith, "it is deaf Ann, But no matter who it
is. Give us your arm, make fast the tower, and Heaven and St.
Cuthbert guide us on our way."

The astonishment of Huon on his arrival at the cottage may be
imagined when he fotind that he had been instrumental in the

absence of his young lady. His fair tempter's smile and kiss reassured
him, and the visions of punishment and terror of his master,
which the discovery at first conjured up, gradually gave way to
the smile of Judith and the iterated thanks of Edward and his
lady.

The jest and song had long ceased in the hall of Cranfield, and its
inmates retired to rest, when a phantom-like figure might be seen
approaching the walls. With the utmost deliberation he counted
the loopholes, commencing with the left of the principal tower, and
paused at the twelfth. Looking carefully round, he threw himself
into a crouching position beneath the shade of an aged pollard, and
placing his fingers to his lips imitated the peculiar cry of the
bittern, paused for a few moments twice, and after each pause
renewed it.

At the end of the third signal Herman and his confidant, Unolff,
appeared upon the walls, their usual costume hid by the close
leathern shirt usually worn by the superior vassals and ecclesiastical
serfs. A cord, which the squire fixed to one of the rough projecting
stones of the tower, enabled them to descend, and in a few moments
from their first appearance on the walls they stood before the holm.
At a signal from Herman the crouching man approached.

Speak," whispered the Saxon, repressing passion, causing the
words to whistle through hie close set teeth ; " have you dogged him
to the lair ? "

I have, noble franklin'" replied the man. " I followed him for
many a weary mile, often burying myself in the bog to the shoulders
to avoid recognition ; sometimes trailing my limbs like a serpent
through the woods ; and I housed him safely at last in the cottage."

Thou art the best of bloodhounds ! " exclaimed his master, a
gleam of ferocious joy lighting up his pale and agitated features.
Are your fellows posted ? 'Tis well," he continued, in answer to
a sign of assent. " Now, then, follow me. Let your hearts be firm
and your hands sure. You know the recompense."

His two companions inclined their heads in token of obedience,
and the doomed murderer sullenly pursued his path, bent on his
crijiel purpose, reckless alike of human or divine retribution, which,
sooner or later, with its iron hand, crushes the mail of guilt, lays
bare the sinner's breast, and vindicates the eternal laws of justice
unto man.

How sweet, how ennobling, are the sentiments of maternity !
how vast the courage inspired by a pure and virtuous love ! In the
caresses of her child and husband, the sorrows, the wild despair of
Edith became calm, and she viewed the inevitable eclaif^cissement no
longer with the sullen stupor of a hopeless heart, but with the calmness
of reason and'the trustfulness of religion.

It was finally arranged that Edith should disclose her marriage
to her father, trusting to his extreme affection and the impression

likely to be produced by the eight of his infant grandson, ^vho was
consigned to the faithful Judith's care, to effect a reconciliation.

Trust me, dearest Edith," said her husband, as the parting
moment arrived, " that all will yet be well. Stern as is the franklin's
heart, it hath a stream of tenderness for thee too deep for anger
to freeze, too piire to be sullied by unreasonable resentment. At
first, I doubt not but his rage Avill be fearful ; fortunately, violent
emotions soon exhaust themselves. Would," he added, " that I
could be the first to bear the brunt of his indignation, to turn his
wrath from thy dear head ! Remember, it is for our boy you plead :
a mother's eloquence is ever irresistible. Take courage, Edith ; and
many a joyous hour in Cranfield's halls shall well repay thee for
each sorrow past."

"With this and similar arguments did Edward sustain the courage
of his trembling wife, whose resolution rose and fell as hope or fear
alternately prevailed. The hour of parting at last arrived. The
iron tongue of night had long told the birth of morning when Edith
and her attendants set forth to return to the hall.

I must to my father," said Edward ; " I can trust his generous
nature for forgiveness. His anger, like a summer's storm, is fierce,
but quickly dies away. With the morning, I am sure he will be at
Cranfield to calm your father's ^sTath, or, at the worst, protect his
child."

The parting kiss was given — the last that cruel destiny permitted
them on earth. A serpent envious of their happiness was in their
path, and Edward's guardian angel slept. Agreeable to his intention
of seeking his parent, he directed his steps towards the distant
village, where his horses and attendants waited him, chewing, ashe
walked along, the cud of many a sweet and bitter fancy, hope
and confidence alternately giving way to the gloomy forebodings of
despair.

Just as the first streak of ruddy day, piercing the veil of night,
appeared above the horizon, he reached a rising knoll, where rustic
piety had erected a rude cross and seat, to invite the traveller to
prayer or repose. Just as he gained the spot the distant matin bell
fell upon his ear. Kneeling on the turf-raised altar, he commended
his wife and child to the protection of that Being whose arm can sustain
the weak, whose wisdom guide them through the storms of life.
While absorbed in prayer he might be seen suddenly to spring
from the earth : one convulsive bound, and all was over. The being
lately all life, intelligence, and animation lay a senseless corpse — a
bolt winged from an annalist had pierced his manly heart ; sent him
in the moment of prayer, his pure soul raised to God, strong in the
hopefulness of youth, in the confidence of a happy future, to meet
the Judge Avhose ear was even then mercifully inclined to his
supplication. A few moments afterwards, and Herman, together
with his companions, stood by the dead man's side.



As the hour drew nigh in which Edith was to meet her father
and confess the secret of her marriage, her high-wrought courage
began to fail her. It needed all the encouragement of her faithful
Judith, and the contemplation of her slumbering child, to nerve her
for the task. She was in the act of rising from her knees, which
had been bent in prayer, when the franklin entered the room.
Despite her resolution, she trembled at the sight of him.

Edith, my child," he said, kindly taking her hand, " why start ?
A daughter's prayer should ever be fitted for a parent's ear ; and
thine, I doubt not, has been to bend thy unreasonable objections to
my will. Is it not so, my child ? "

Edith remained silent.

Listen to me," resumed her father, " "When thy mother died
there was left a tender, gentle flower ; so fragile, that the slightest
breath of coldness or unkindness would have cut the slender thread
of its existence. Edith, thou hast known me only as the rough
hunter, the successful soldier, or stern franklin."

More," interrupted his hearer, weeping, and passionately kissing
his hand, " as the father — the kind, the generous, too indulgent
father."

Somewhat, perhaps, too much so," he resumed. " It was my
nature, and I cannot change it. But I have been thy nurse, Edith
watched night after night the little cot where slept my motherless
treasure ; schooled my rough voice to woman's softness not to disturb
thy slumbers ; tended thee with more than a father's fondness
with almost the yearning tenderness of a mother's love. Say, have
I not the right to demand some recompense ? "

His daughter clasped her hands in silence,

*' For thy sake I have sought to rear no other heritor to my proud
name. Must, then, that name, which is dear to me as my own
existence, be transmitted through another ? Mttst the long-cherished
hope of years be disappointed ? Will the child whom I have so
blindly loved blight the one hope of my existence, or by an effort
worthy of herself assure her father's happiness ? Think what will
be your feelings when, standing by my grave, you are enabled to say,
I have done my duty — I have closed my father's eyes in peace.' "

During the franklin's last address the agitation of Edith had
visibly increased. The tone of affectionate entreaty pierced her
very soul ; and had the sacrifice been possible, at that very moment
gladly would his child have submitted to become its victim.

Would — would that it were possible," she replied ; " in this
bitter hofir I feel the sin, the curse of disobedience."

"Yv'hat mean you ?" uttered the franklin : "what fearful mystery
is this ? Speak I Have I still a cold ? " ,

'' You have ! you have ! " frantically exclaimed his daughter,

but know that child is "

What .? "

STANFIELD HALL.

A wife and mother ! "

Edith, exhausted by the effort, remained gazing in speechless agony
upon her father's face — life, hope, happiness, all seemed to hang
upon his lips.

Had a thunderbolt fallen at the feet of Herwald he could not have
been more astonished,

Married ! '' he exclaimed, " and a mother ! Well, well, I have
no child now."

Do not say that," sobbed Edith. " Do not say that ; speak to me
look upon me — call me daughter — for Heaven's sake, call me
daughter ! "

No," sternly answered the franklin, shaking himself from her
grasp. " My curse pursue thee ! Hear it in the arms of thy husband !
tremble at it when the tempest rages ! and when the sun shines
upon thy father's grave, remember whose disobedience laid him
there ! When the thunder roars, mayst thou fancy thou hearest thy
father's curse ! If thou hast children "

At this moment Judith, who had been a trembling spectator of
the interview, with one of those sudden acts of inspiration to which
only woman's heart can aspire, and which no philosophy can teach,
placed his infant grandson at his enraged grandfather's feet. The
shock was electrical. Vainly he struggled to continue his malediction
; nature was too powerful for passion, pity too strong for anger.
The kneeling mother and the helpless infant formed an appeal he
could not resist.

No, no ! " he murmured in a broken voice, " I cannot, dare not
curse thy child — Edith's child," he added, gazing almost with love
upon the little stranger who lay smiling at his feet. " Edith," he
added, after a short struggle with his better nature, " 'tis past— this
boy hath made thy peace. Come to thy father's heart — once more
his child ! "

With a cry of joy, which burst from the deepest recesses of her
heart, Edith threw herself into the arms of her forgiving father.

The words of parental forgiveness — the caress of parental love —
were the last rays of happiness the unfortunate Edith was destined
to taste on earth. Scarcely had the reconciled Saxon and his child
recovered from the agitation of the scene which we have so faintly
endeavoured to describe, than the Recluse of Wynmondham entered
the apartment unannounced, the universal reverence in which he
was held rendering his visits everywhere a welcome honour.

"Franklin," he exclaimed, "to horse! Blood hath been shed upon
thy land ! the blood of the noble and the good ! Edward, the son
of thy oldest friend Edda, the Saxon, lies murdered at the foot of
the cross ! " * '^'

A piercing shriek burst from the lips of Edith — a shriek fearful
as the despairing agony of a departing soul ; and the heiress of
Cranfield lay a senseless maniac at the feet of her agonised father.

CHAPTER IT.

It would be impossible to describe the rage and confusion of
Herman when his uncle informed him not only of Edith's marriage,
but of the birth of an heir to Cranfield ; the prize for which he
had imbrued bJB hands in blood, and yielded his soul to the dark
fiend, seemed for ever to have eit'caped him. 'Tis true the melancholy
state of Edith gave but little hope of recovery ; but the boy
lived — Edvv-ard's boy — to become the inheritor of the broad lands
for which his cupidity panted, and perhaps the avenger of his
father's assassination. This last consideration, or both combined,
determined him on attempting to remove the infant heir. Open
force, guarded as was the holm, he knew to be hopeless : he determined,
therefore, to seek by other means the accomplishment of his
detested purpose. Aspromptin execution as unthought, he mounted
his horse and, attended only by the easy confidant of his crimes and
pleasures, directed his head towards the thick Avoid of Wynmondham,
where he trusted to find a fit agent for the crime he meditated. In
the deepest recesses of the wood in question stood a rude hut
partially formed of unhewn stones and logs of wood ; strength, more
than convenience, seemed to have been the builder's object, not less
in choice of material than situation. A thick stagnant pool cut off
all access to the back part of the building, where the only apertures
for admitting light were situated. The stout oaken door was thickly
studded with nails, and, from its solidity and strength, seemed to
defy intrusion ; the danger of v^'hich was still fui-ther lessened by
the absence of all regular road, and the thick, lovv^, stunted pollards,
which prevented the traveller or hunter from seeing the edifice
until close upon it. When by accident any such approached, they
hastily crossed themselves, and fled, casting furtive glances in their
flight, to assure themselves that they were not followed by its
mysterious inmate, Haga, or the dark man of the wold, as the occupant
was called. He bore a most equivocal character for miles
around ; none knew his place of birth, or the history of his past
life. Deeply skilled in medicine, and in the knowledge of all
healing plants, his wisdom was seldom taxed by the superstitious
boors or neighbouring franklins, and then only in extreme cases,
when all other remedies had failed. In his intercourse with such
rare visitors, his words were few, but to the purpose ; his manners
cold, stern, and dignified ; added to which, he invariably rejected
all gifts or proffers of remuneration. In person Haga was tall,
though bent with age ; a long beard fell over his ample dark tunic,
reaching the silver girdle which bound it to his waist ; on it wei-e
engraved certain Runic characters, the meaning of Which were

c 2

known only to the Druids, and bards of the Saxon nation ; indeed,
by some he was considered as belonging to the all but extinct order
of the former sacerdotal race — a supposition in some measure confirmed
by his never having been seen, within the memory of man,
in any building dedicated to Christian worship. From whatever
source he obtained his means, they were ample ; indeed, he had
been frequently known to bestow on the wayfarer or the unfortunate
an alms which many a noble and wealthy franklin would have
grudged. Still he was not beloved ; but fear served him as a
more efficient protection, for the wretch who would have plundered
and fired the roof which sheltered him, trembled as he passed the
rude hut of Haga of the "Wold. The fact of several children having
been missed from the neighbouring villages still further tended to
increase the superstitious dread in which he was universally held ;
for although few tongues ventured to accuse, there were many who
doubted not but that Haga Alas in some way connected with their
disappearance ; some, more charitably inclined, suggested that they
had probably wandered too far into the woods, and either perished
of hunger, or from the attacks of the wolves, at that period so
plentiful in England. When Herman had approached within bowshot
of the hut, he reined in his steed, and, dismounting, took from
his attendant a dark hunting cloak, in Which he enveloped his
person so as effectually to prevent recognition, and directed his
steps towards the unhallowed spot, leaving his squire lost in
admiration at his master's hardy courage.

'• Enter ! " exclaimed the deep voice of the inmate, as the third
blow of Herman's dagger fell on the iron-studded door of the hut ;
be thou jjoor or wretched, rich or noble, weak or strong, craven or
brave, enter the hut of the recluse."

The visitor did as he was commanded, and found himself for the
first time in his life face to face with the being whose name was
seldom pronounced without awe, and even whose benefits were
received with a secret malediction.

The interior of the cottage presented a far more comfortable
appearance than its exterior seemed to promise. A long carved
oaken settle extended on one side of the wall ; over it was hung
several antique bronze instruments, such as are still occasionally'
found in cairns and Druid mounds, and which modern antiquaries
have alternately decided to be instruments of sacrifice or divination ;
a withered leaf of ivy lay upon the huge block of wood which
served as a table, and whose roots, still deeply embedded in the earth,
shoved that it retained its primeval position.

Haga was occupied in sorting a collection of herbs gathered in
the neighbouring woods, when Herman entered, and seated himself
opposite to him. For a few moments they gazed on each other
without speaking. The recluse was the first to break the silence.
" What brings the franklin to mv secluded dwelling ? " he demanded



; " his cheek seems flushed with health. Why comes he
disguised ? " he added, a shade of displeasure passing over his
haughty brow ; " it was not thus his fathers of yore sought the wise
men of their race."

The wisdom of the sage," replied his guest, " is medicine alike
unto the body and the mind : if my cheek is flushed with health,
and my limbs are strong, my heart is sick "

"For vengeance ! " interrupted the old man ; "for vengeance ! I
read it in thy knitted brow — the paleness of thy lip, which shames
thy cheek's deep red. Thou wouldst remove a rival from thy path
of love, or of ambition ! Begone ! — I cannot aid thee."

Will not, rather," answered his guest. " Come, let us understand
each other ; although I give not credence to the idle tongues
of superstitious fools, I have not now to learn that thou art skilled
in herbs — that nature, like one vast book, is opened to thy gaze —
and that thy wisdom may be turned to good or evil. Come, sell mea
draught, the slightest drop of which shall stop life's current at its
very spring, yet leave no tell-tale evidence behind. I'll pay thy
price in gold."

Gold ! " replied Haga, with a scornful laugh ; " were a mine of
the pale yellow dross beneath my feet, I would not raise the soil
which covers it. Gold ! I loathe it more than I loathe humanity,
for 'tis its worst weapon. Go, man, go : the outcast of the world —
the condemned of men's opinion — will not justify their judgment
i)y participating in a crime like this."

This is cant ! " exclaimed Herman, starting to his feet with
ill-suppressed rage, " mere cant, to enhance the value of the service
I demand. Fear not to tax my purse — it shall pay thee both for
thy conscience and thy nostrum. Why, man," he added, "if what
men say of thee be true, thou art already damned beyond the reach
of mercy ; earth hath no absolution, holy Church no prayer for
crimes so black as thine."

Such is thy Christian creed," retorted Haga ; " I trust not. in it
it binds not me ; I worship not in temples made with hands — the
umbrageous forest is my tabernacle — primeval rocks my altar — my
matin hymn the feathered minstrel's song — my oracles the running
stream or brook."

Thou art a Druid," observed Herman, " one of a race proscribed."


The last of a race proscribed, thou mightesthave said," proudly
answered the old man. Cruel hath been our persecution, and cruel
vengeance follows it ! The Norman is at hand — the avenger of our
sacred race ! Odin and Thor no longer guard a land where their
altars are deserted and their priests unhonoured ! Soon, soon will
their judgments be accomplished."

Pagan," said the Saxon franklin at the same time devoutly
crossing himself — for, like most of the nobles of his age, his character

formed a strange mixture of cruelty and superstition — " dearest thou
avow such heresies to me ? Although the sainted Edward no
longer wears a mortal crown, the Church is powerful still."

And who will be my denouncer ? " demanded the Druid with
a sneer — " the noble franklin who came to solicit a poison at my
hands, to remove from his path a rival whom he fears, perchance,
to meet in open fight ? I have no fear of such an accuser."

No man have I ever feared to meet on equal terms, or against
such sight the aid of ministry like thine," said Herman ; " it is
an opening flower I would close, not uproot an oak — I would efface
the stain upon an ancient house, without, if possible, steeping my
hand in an infant's blood."

"An infant ? " eagerly demanded Haga ; " hath it been baptised ? "
He fixed his eyes keenly on Herman, as if he would read his very
soul. There was a pause, during which the latter weighed in his
mind the import of the question.

It hath," he slowly answered.

The old man rose and paced the narrow limits of the chamber, as
if communing with himself. His mind seemed at last made up.
Laying his hand upon the arm of the franklin, Which trembled beneath
his touch, he whispered —

I'll make a compact with thee. I'll give thee means to steep
the child in sleep, but not in death — in sleep so deep and calm that
not one pulse shall indicate that life remains within its secret
sanctuary ; the mother's kiss shall not detect the lingering breath
upon its lips — the eye of hate discover the latent bloom upon its
cheek. I will do this on one condition,"

Condition," faltered Herman, whose superstition recoiled from
the Druid's words. " What condition ? "

That when he sleeps his sleep of seeming death," replied the
old man, " you shall convey him here to me ; that I shall remain
sole master of his fate — no question asked — no future count demanded."


Horror ! " exclaimed the' Saxon ; " wouldst have me barter the
infant to the fiend ? Never, never ! Though criminal, I am a
Christian."

Begone then at once," said the tempter ; " thou knowest the only
terms on which my services are to be bought. The child here,
living at my absolute disposal, what isn't to thee whether his blood
bedew the shrine of Odin, or that I rear him to serve his neglected
altars ? Thy conscience," he added with a sneer, "will be free."

True," muttered Herman ; " and holy Church may yet absolve
me."

It may be," sarcastically resumed the Druid. " Gold will buy
pardon for a heavier sin. Is it a compact ? "

It is," after a struggle, answered the wretched man. " There is
no other way."

The Druid, without further word, went to a dark recess, and after
searching for some time amongst its contents drew a small crystal
phial from it, and placed it in the hands of the trembling homicide.


There is the drug you seek," he exclaimed, " One drop, and
the drinker will for hours appear as dead. Once in its death-like
trance, it will be easy to remove the body here. In five days I shall
expect you. Beware," he added, " how you break faith with me !
None ever did so with impunity ; and Herman of the Burg shall
not be the first."

His hearer started at the ominous manner in which the speaker
pronounced his name.

You know me, then ? " he murmured, his countenance
changing with fear and passion.

Well," resumed the old man. " Know thee as the murderer of
Edward, heir to the Saxon Edda ; know thee as the betrothed of a
bride thou never shalt possess — as the heir of a name which, if thou
keep not faith with me, never shall be thine ! Farewell ! Pass on
thy way, and till the deed is accomplished darken my door no more."

That very night Herman, under pretence of leaving the franklin
to indulge in his natural grief and watch over his unhappy child,
started from Cranfield on his way to Burg — a strong fortress which
he possessed, built on the ruins of the Variorum of Caesar, the
Roman remains of which have survived the more modern structure,
and still attract the attention of the antiquary and traveller as he
passes over the shallow waters of Brandon, which wash their base.
But although he left the home of his destined victim, instruments
worthy of their master remained behind to work his will. Before
the five days were elapsed a fire broke out in that part of the holm
where the infant heir reposed. His attendants had been drugged
with the Druid's fatal gift, and slept when they should have
watched. The unfortunate wretches perished in the flames, in
which the infant was also supposed to have found an untimely
grave. It was long ere Edith and her repentant father recovered
this second bloAV.

Eighteen years had elapsed since the fire at Cranfield, in which
so many persons perished ; the base contriver of the deed remained
unsuspected ; but the vast political changes which had placed the
Norman Conqueror on the throne prevented his profiting, as he anticipated,
by the deed. It was the policy both of William and his
successors to amalgamate as far as possible the still hostile races.
In many instances confiscation was avoided by the Saxon heiress
marrying some Norman knight, who thus became an inheritor of
the soil. The wealthy franklin purchased the peaceable possession
of his ancestral domains by allying himself with some powerful
noble of the invader's blood, whose dowerless daughter bestowed
at least security with the possession of her hand.

Cranfield, as may be supposed, was too rich a prize to escape the
Conqueror's cupidity. Had her own safety only been at stake, Edith
would have defied the utmost malice of her fate ; but when she reflected
that her father, her indulgent father, even if his life were
spared, must wander forth unhonoured and defenceless, exposed not
only to the reverse of fortune, but to the conquerors' unpitying scoffs,
her last resolve gave way, and she bestowed her hand on Hugh de
Bigod, created for his services at the battle of Hastings Earl of Norwich,
and marshal of the king in that portion of his dominions
formerly comprised under the name of the East Angles. Fortunately
for Edith, she met with no ungenerous wooer or stern lord. Love,
it was not in her power to bestow ; but as the manly qualities of
the earl's nature developed themselves, her friendship gradually
became his. Like herself, he had mourned the loss of the object of
his first affections — two infant pledges of which, a boy and a girl,
remained to him. The spirited Norman and his sister Matilda
gazed at first with fear upon the pale cheek and gloomy brow of
their new mother — whose gentleness, however, gradually won their
hearts, and on whom she soon bestowed some portion of that love
which her heart still treasured for the memory of her lost boy.
The franklin, full of years, had long since slumbered at peace.
Even the deeply guilty Herman shared in the protection which the
union of Edith with the powerful favourite of the Conqueror extended
to her race. He was a frequent visitor at the castle of Norwich,
where the earl and countess generally resided ; and, if not a
welcome, was, at least, a tolerated guest. Age had not taught him
penitence, or cured him of his ambitious dreams — the murderer
plotted still.

The sun was shining cheerfully on a fine morning in September,
gilding the lofty tower of the cathedral, which still remains the
pride and admiration of the ancient city of Norwich ; its rays, after
striking the lofty pinnacle and fretted niches, rich in many a quaint
device and sculptured saint, fell in quiet repose upon the emerald
turf inclosed by the cloisters of the sacred edifice ; causing the
shadows from the western windows to fall upon the pavement.
The last chant of the matin hymn was fading through the aisles,
when an ecclesiastic, whose chain and cross indicated his episcopal
rank, entered from one of the side doors of the church, and began
to pace the cloister ; his rich purple soudan fell in graceful folds
around his stately form, which seemed bent less by age than sorrow.
The arched brow, piercing eye, and aquiline nose of the individual
sufficiently indicated his Norman blood. To a casual observer, the
general expression of his countenance would have been taken for
pride : to those who examined closer, a decided character of
benevolence redeemed it. Such, as we have endeavoured to describe
him, was Herbert de Lozenga, Bishop of Norwich and Chancellor
to William the Conqueror — ^a man of whom even his enemies said



much good, and whose friends were enthusiastic in his praise. Born
of high rank, and elevated to ecclesiastical dignities, he possessed
some of the prejudices of his birth, and many of the virtues of his
state. Those who saw in him only the noble and the prelate, envied
him ; the few who knew the man, wondered that he was unhappy ; a
subdued melancholy seemed to be the prevailing feature of his
disposition. Perhaps in the priest he had not learnt to subdue all
the recollections of the man. The general companion of this solitary
morning walk within the cloisters was a young orphan named Ulrick,
whom he had reared from infancy, and to whom scandal assigned a
nearer claim upon his bounty than mere charity.

How keen and freshly blows the mountain breeze ! " muttered
the prelate to himself, as he paced the cloister, his eye glancing
alternately from the fretted roof to the inclosed space before him.
Where can Ulrick linger ? — the matin song fell harshly on my
ear, wanting his voice to give it melody. 'Tis strange," he added,
how the boy hath twined himself round my heart ; I should remember
that the hour will arrive when we must part — when he
must mingle in the world, and seek to win by gallant deeds the name
which cruel fate denies him."

The speaker continued his walk with the same languid step,
sometimes lingering to catch some new point of view, as the tower
and spires of the cathedral were seen through the deep fretwork of
the cloister windows — sometimes to listen to the echo of some
distant step, as it either receded or drew near the spot where he was
meditating. At last the sound of a footfall lighter than the tread
of the sandalled monks drew near, and in a few seconds the object
of his thoughts presented himself.

Ulrick the Orphan, as he was generally called, was formed in a
mould where symmetry and manly strength were blended. Although
generally supposed to be, if not the son, at least in some way
connected by blood with his patron, his features bore the impress of
the Saxon rather than the Norman race — blue eyes,afair complexion,
and light chestnut curls ; the first down of manhood shaded his lip
and chin, redeeming the almost womanish character of his beauty.
Although mildness seemed to be the general expression of his
countenance, there was great determination in the mouth and nostrils,
the chiselled lines of which generally indicate courage, firmness,
and perseverance. His step, though light, was stately, like the
young fawn's, when sauntering from its evening lair, it snuffs the
breath of morning with an air in which affection and reverence are
mingled. The youth approached the spot where Herbert de Lozenga
awaited him ; and, silently bending the knee, he asked the usual
benediction, which the prelate bestowed upon him by making the
sign of the cross above his head.

Forgive me, reverend father," said Ulrick, as he rose from his
knee ; " but I have been detained beyond my usual hour. I

encountered the noble Mirvan in my walks, and " — here the speaker
hesitated.

With him one," interrupted the prelate, with a melancholy
smile, " whose charms, I fear, endanger Ulrick's peace — his gentle
sister."

The youth blushed, and was silent,

Hear me, boy ! " resumed Herbert. " I have long wished to
speak With you on the subject, but weakly hesitated, knowing how
sad it is to be sternly wakened from those blissful dreams in which
youthful confidence too often plunges us. You love ! "

His hearer started as the gentle voice of his patron pronounced
the fatal words which tore from his soul its sweet delusion ; still, as
drowning wretches cling to the last plank, he struggled to avoid
confessing even to himself the folly of his passion, the madness of
his hopes. Matilda, the daughter of one of the most powerful nobles
of the Norman race— and he an orphan, a being without a name —
the stain of doiibt, perchance of infamy, upon his birth — and he to
dare to raise his eyes so high ! No, no ! He had mistaken friendship
for love ; it could be nothing else !

"Think not, my lord," he replied, as soon as he recovered
from the confusion in which the unexpected accusation had thrown
him, " that such arrogance and pride e'er harboured here ; the Lady
Matilda can ne'er be viewed by me but with such awe and reverence
as the shrine of some bright saint enthroned in bliss might claim.
Chance, you are aware, led me to preserve her brother's life ; the
grateful maid hath deigned to call me friend. Think, father —
friend ! That," he added, fixing his eyes almost imploringly upon
his interrogator, " is a name distinct from love."

An expression of sadness clouded the usually calm, clear brow of
the priest. For years the page of human life had been his study.
Perhaps some recollection of his OAvn youthful dreams came over
him, when he, too, had struggled to blind his reason to the true
nature of his heart — its weakness, passions. Perhaps his natural
sympathy with humanity interested him in the struggle between
truth and delusion which was evidently taking place in Ulrick's [
soul — a struggle which, for its victim's happiness, he was resolved
at any risk to end.

Your sentiments towards Matilda are, then, merely those of
friendship — nothing more ?" Ulrick remained silent ; the precipice
was becoming gradually defined before him. " Could you," continued
Herbert, " with joy be present, see her wed, and her rich
beauties grace another's arms ? You tremble, Ulrick, at the thought.
Why is this?"

Yes 'tis not love ! " passionately iterated Ulrick ; " for I should
be content could I but live for ever in her sight, nor frame one
wish beyond. But never more to hear the music of her voice, or
catch the expression of her dark blue eye when mirth illume it, or

when sorrow's tale hath gemmed its fringes with a pitying tear,
would give my heart a pang."

The vehemence of the speaker betrayed too clearly, even to himself,
the state of his affections. Like a child attracted by the pleasing
colours of the snake, he had played with the reptile till its venom
had infused itself into his soul,

We have both been to blame," exclaimed the prelate, rising from
the rough stone on which he had been seated, and pacing the cloister
with a firmer step than usual ; " we have been dreamers both. You
must to the world, boy ; my selfish love hath too long detained thee
here. Action is the best cure for sorrow and for ill. Our monarch
prosecutes the war in France : honours and lands may be won by
gallant deeds : if fate denies a name, thy sword must win one."

Honours and lands the sword indeed may win, but what deed
can efface the stain of infamy upon my birth ? "

Ulrick's voice trembled with emotion as he spoke. The general
opinion of his being the son of the bishop had at times struck him
with a sad foreboding ; he feared to find in the author of his being
the man whom he most loved and reverenced on earth, the term
son of a priest " being at that time the most bitter reproach an
insulting enemy could bestow.

Infamy ! " repeated Herbert ; " and who shall dare pronounce
it so, when I, who have reared thee from thy tenderest years — I,
who received thee a smiling infant in these arms — believe thee
noble ? "

Never before had Herbert de Lozenga been so explicit with his
orphan protege, whom respect, and perhaps a nameless dread, had
hitherto prevented from demanding an explanation of the tie between
them. The words of his protector fell like a precious balm upon
his soul ; they conveyed to him the assurance that he was not the
wretched being he suspected.

You, then ! " he exclaimed, " are not "

The blush upon the brow of his guardian arrested Ulrick's words ;
he paused, and bent his eyes to earth in silence.

No, Ulrick," replied the prelate to the half-uttered interrogation,
I am not thy father ; no offspring's tear," he added, in a voice of
deep emotion, " will fall upon my grave. Thickest thou, had I sofar
forgot the laws of God — my priestly vow — I could have ever
gazed without a blush upon thee ? "

Pardon, pardon ! " sobbed Ulrick, prostrating himself at his
feet, half choked with emotion ; " I am indeed a wretch to have
formed one doubt of purity like thine. Tell me, I entreat thee, all
that thou knowest touching my wretched state."

The bishop in his turn seemed confused at his request ; for the
required explanation recalled the most painful moments of his
existence — the struggles of passions which had left their scars upon
his very soul. Feeling, however, how necessary it was to make the

effort, he resolved to subdue the natural hesitation which he felt,
and add another to the long list of pangs he had endured.

Be it so, Ulrick," he replied ; " lout not now, not now. I lack
courage for the task — firmness to bring my mind to part with thee.
I must seek them both in prayer. In three days thy letters shall be
prepared for William's camp — all things arranged for thy departure ;
but ere thou leaves the solitary man whose heart has been thy home,
thou shalt learn the sorrows of his life, and how thou first wert casta
helpless infant on his care. Go," he added ; " take leave of thy
friends at the castle, of the noble Mirvan and his gentle sister ; but
remember, Ulrick, not one word of love ; plant not a thorn where
thou wouldst place a rose. Since 'tis the lot of man to suffer — to
feel his heart consume beneath the serpent-tooth of deathless passions
suffer alone — and, like the wounded eagle on the rock, pine in
solitude away."

On the evening of the same day, Ulrick directed his steps towards
the castle, to announce to his two friends his intended departure for
the camp. With the peculiar sensitiveness of his nature, he had
refused, on several occasions, to partake of the almost regal hospitality
of the earl, whose residence emulated the splendours of the
Court, and who had frequently expressed a wish to meet the preserver
of his son. As he crossed the open space which divided the
cathedral precincts from the city, now known by the name of
Toland, his heart beat with contending emotions ; he was going,
for the last time, perhaps, to listen to the voice whose tone found so
deep an echo in his soul — to gaze upon the eyes whose light to him
was as twin stars to guide him to his destiny ; was going to part —
the words of love which glowed upon his tongue unspoken — the
vanishes, passions, and regrets which burnt within him as closely
sealed as in a sepulchre. Still, despite of the barriers which reason
presented to his passion, his step was buoyant ; hope held possession
of a corner of his heart, even as she lay hid at the bottom of Pandora's
box ; and that which was only not impossible seemed half-achieved.


Yes," he exclaimed, apostrophising the object of his adoration ;
her name shall be my beacon in the path of honour ; if I fall, she
shall feel I was not altogether unworthy of her love ; if I return
with fame, that love may crown me."

Ulrick had crossed about half the distance which separated the
city gate from the castle, when he was surrounded by a gay and
laughing band of youthful nobles, who, headed by Mirvan and
Herman of the Burg, had been indulging in the pleasures of the
chase ; his sister and her fair cousin, Isabel of Bayeux, had
accompanied them.

So ho ! " exclaimed Mirvan, dismounting from Iris horse, and
placing his arm in Ulrick's, " I have caught the sage at last. No
refusal now ; not e'en my sister's vrord shall set you free ; for once

Ave'll have philosophy at our gay banquet, that when beauty's smiles
lead our hearts astray, wisdom, in time, may pull the reins of our
understandings to check us. Wouldst believe it, my fair coz," he
added, turning to Isabel, " although Matilda and myself, time out of
mind, have tried to tempt him, this is the first time we have lured
the hermit from his cell ? "

And not soon again to return to it," said Ulrick, bowing lowly
to the two lovely girls, who had reined in their stately palfreys on
first perceiving him. " I am bound to the country of the Lady
Isabel, to try my humble fortunes in the wars."

At the concluding words a close observer might have seen the
cheek of Matilda turn pale. Herman observed it, and his heart
overflowed with bitterness and gall.

You are right, young man," he haughtily and loudly answered ;
Normandy is the land of those who have neither country nor nation,
birth nor name ; it is a land for adventurers. You will do well to
cast your fortunes there."

To most of the young men the bitter sarcastic humour of the
speaker was well known ; they passed his observations therefore
with a laugh. Not so Isabel, who with the penetration of a woman's
wit had detected the desire of the franklin to humiliate Ulrick in
the presence of Matilda, whose love,, despite the disparity of years,
he ridiculously aspired to.

Sir Saxon," she exclaimed, " it is the land at least of courtesy,
since it permits those whom it has conquered to rail unpunished
against their masters. It is the land of the brave," she added,
proudly, " and worthy to become the home of those who have true
hearts and loyal weapons."

By my faith, fair cousin," interrupted Mirvan, secretly annoyed
at the turn the conversation had taken, " if their swords are but
half as keen as thy tongue, I had rather be friends than quarrel with
thy brave countrymen. Our kinsman meant not to offend thee, —
do not quarrel with him."

Quarrel with Herman ! " iterated the haughty beauty, perfectly
aware of her power oyer Mirvan's heart ; " quarrel with the spleen !
no, no ; he is to be end-ed, not quarrelled with."

Kinsman," exclaimed the young noble, who read in the glowing
cheek and fishing eye of his young friend a coming storm,
pleasure me by riding with our friends on to the castle. The ladies
will accept of mine and Ulrick's escort."

The grave tone in which the request was made implied a command
to the haughty Saxon. But Mirvan was too important a person for
him to offend ; besides he felt that he had already lost ground
in his favour by his churlish speech to one to whom he was not only
sincerely attached, but deeply indebted.

"Willing, cousin," he brought himself to answer. " My absence
shall be m^,- punishment ; the fair Isabel, I doubt not, will feel it

more than sufficient for the crime. At least we part as friends," he
added, raising his plumed cap as he spoke, and bowing to the 
of his fair enemy.

Friends ! " carelessly repeated Isabel ; " oh, yes ; friends as
much as ever."

The franklin either would not or did not see the irony of the last
words of the speakers but turned his horse's head towards the castle,
attended by ail but Mirvan, Ulrick, and the two ladies.

You are too hard, Isabel," said the former, " on our kinsman ;
he hath a heart ! "

Heart ! " interrupted the maiden, "so hath the tomb its tenant.
Heart ! 'tis a cold and frozen spectre ; love, friend skip, confidence,
the ties which bind us to our fellow-creatures, the gushing sympathies
of love, all that ennobles man, and lights this dull earth with gleams
of Eden's sunshine, are his scoffs."

I cannot argue with yon," said Mirvan. Then turning to Ulrick,
he continued, "and so you leave us for the wars ? The cloister
then, it seems, lias lost its charm — is Mars or Venus now in the
ascendant ? "

Neither, I trust," answered the conscience-strike youth ; " but
I am sick of dreaming out my life in cloistered ease. 'Tis time I
see the world, and mate myself with men. My guardian's influence
hath ope'd the path of honour — I were a sluggard did I not pursue it.
If I have neither name nor birth, country nor station, who shall blame
me that I strive to win one ? "

Blame ! " said Isabel ; " thou shalt have one Christian maiden's
prayers at least for thy success ! Nay, 1 think I may venture to
promise thee my pensive cousin's too ? "

You may, indeed," softly uttered Matilda, thus directly' appealed
to ; " they are due not less to his own merits than to the preserver of
my brother's life."

The quiet tone of the speaker's voice told to her cousin that her
calmness was assumed ; indeed, she had long suspected a mutual
passion, not the less ardent for being unconfessed, between Matilda
and the unknown orphan. *

Happy Ulrick ! " exclaimed Mirva;i, who, in the blindness of his
own passion for the volatile Isabel, did not suspect his sister's ; "did
not a dearer tie withhold me, gladly would 1 share thy perils and behold
thy trii'Tinphs ; as it is, although I may not witness, perchance
I can assist them. My father, as thou well knowest, stands in high
favour with our valiant monarch, and I am sure will gladly stretch
his utmost influence to serve thee ; he will doubtless furnish thee with
letters to those who can place thee foremost in the path of danger
and of honour."

I ask no more," replied Ulrick. " If I fall, it matters little ; few
will mourn me, and none know the wild ambitious aspirations which
perish with me. Should I survive, those who interest themselves

P

in my wretched fate shall not blush for the favors' they have shown
me."

On his arrival at the castle, Trick was presented to the carl aud
countess, the former of whom thanked him with stately kindness
for the service he had rendered Mirvan, Avhoae life our hero had
preserved from the attack of a ferocious wolf, when, wounded and
unhorsed, he lay exposed to the savage monster's fury. Edith,
whose remarkable beauty time and sorrow had mellowed, but nor
destroyed, sighed as she gazed upon the gallant youth, who modestly
knelt to kiss her extended hand ; perhaps some feature jarred the
chords of memory, or some mysterious sympathy formed a link 
them. The pressure 'of his lips upon her hand thrilled to her
matron heart.

Such," she mentally uttered, v/ith a sigh, — '* such might have
been my gallant Edward's boy, had cruel fortune spared him to my
widowed heart."

The modesty with which Ulrick listened to the counsel of the ►
earl, the extreme grace of his person and purity of mind, made a f
favourable impression upon that powerful nobleman. His guests
and officers perceived the entertainment of their host and chief, and |
vied with each other in courtesies. All who listened to the eager I
hopes and noble aspirations of the gallant youth wished him success I
in his career of arrizs ; all but one — the jealous, disappointed Her j
man, who sat listening to his rival's praise in gloomy silence — for I
rivals he already felt they were. At length, unable longer to endure ^
the gnawing of his envious heart, he quietly withdrew from the hall,
to indulge in gloomy meditation. f

Bring Ulrick to the chapel," whispered Isabel to her cousin |
T'iirvan, as, leaning on the arm of Matilda, thej- followed the countess
from the banquet ; " although we cannot dub him knight, at least
we may arm him for the battle in which he is to win his spurs. I i
owe him," she added, " no less a debt of gratitude than Matilda, and
am impatient till the debt be paid'" [

The last part of the maiden's speech was too flattering to Mirvan j
to make him wonder at the unusual request. As soon, therefore, as
the feast was ended, and the principal guests retired from the hall, j
he took the arm of Ulrick, and led his wondering friend towards the j
chapel. I

The two fair cousins were standing near the altar when the young
men entered the sacred edifice. The light from the ever-burning
silver lamp before the shrine gave a religious, mellow tone to the
scene ; the segment-formed arches dimly receding till they were
lost in darkness. Four purer hearts, or more devoted to each other,
were seldom met than those assembled there. It is true that between
Matilda and Ulrick no vow had e'er been spoken ; each seemed instinctively
to i-el it woxild be wrong that it should be so : the youth
felt that the idol of his worship could receive no clandestine homage ;

the maiden, that the favoured of her choice would fall from the
high place he held within her breast by any rash avowal ; and yet
they loved — loved with all the pure confiding innocence of youth —
the confidence of humanity ere sin or the world's treachery had
blighted them. Confident in the sinlessness of her passion, Matilda
advanced to meet them ; her voice was firm, as her heart was pure
and holy.

Ulrick," she said, " the sister cannot permit the preserver of her
brother's life to go unarmed into the battle. The sword is a strange
gift from a woman's hand ; but when grasped by honour, 'tis the best
in thine 'twill ne'er be drawn but in the cause of virtue and of
truth."

To virtue and justice I devote it ! " exclaimed Ulrick, sinking
on one knee, as he received the weapon from her hand. " Lady,
this moment shall be graven in the cell where memory treasures up
its deepest joys — round it entwines the thread of my existence. It
fortune smiles upon the soldier's arm, thy virtues will have been
the inspiring cause ; if death should call me on the field of honour,
thy image shall console me."

For a few moments the lovers gazed on each other in silence,
drinking, in that brief space, a draught for years, a happiness forages.


Though far less prized," exclaimed Isabel, willing to end the
scene, the excitement of which she feared, " do not refuse my
gift." %

She passed a silken scarf, embroidered by her own fair hands, over
the shoulders of Ulrick, as she spoke.

It was intended for another, but not more worthy object."

Less worthy far to wear it," said Mirvan, who understood that
it was for himself that the prize had originally been destined.

Beggar that I am, in all but thanks," sighed Ulrick, as he kissed
the embroidered hem of the maiden's gift ; " how have I merited
stitch goodness ? "

By prudence," replied Isabel, in a marked tone ; " by courage,
not in its brute contests with man to man, but in its loftier struggles.
"We have performed our task — farewell ! "

Farewell I " exclaimed Ulrick, kneeling, and passionately kissing
the extended hands of the fair cousins ; " you have lit my soul with
energies — armed me to brave all that the wildest fortune can wreak
on me. I will return worthy of such angelic goodness, or return no
more."

The excited youth rushed from the chapel as he spoke. Isabel
and Matilda retired in silence to their chambers.

That night Mirvan had much for study and reflection.

How delicious is the moment when the youths vil heart first feels
that it is loved ! The soul expands, merges in a new existence, and
all around partakes of Eden's bliss.

Yes," exclaimed Ulrick, as he left the bridge which crossed the
castle moat, " I now am armed to meet adversity ; armed against all
the terrors of impending fate. Matilda wills that I should gain a
name ; others alone, by vile ambition led, have for high deeds been
raised to greatness and to honour ; and can I fail when her voice
bids me on ? No, her name shall prove a beacon-light to guide me
o'er life's waves."

Say rather an ignis fatuus, to lure thee to thy ruin," interrupted
Herman, whose unsocial temper had driven him from the banquet,
and who, unfortunately, overheard our hero's meditation.

The moon was shining brightly, and Ulrick recognised the voice as
well as the person of the speaker. The recollection of their previous
meeting galled him, and he answered, in a tone as haughty as
his own —

"When I require counsel, it is not of Herman of the Burg
that I shall seek it. When I desire a confidant, it is not Herman
of the Burg that I shall choose. Pass on, Sir Saxon ; meddle in
that which concerns you, and our Lady speed you on your way."

"It doth concern me, boy," retorted Herman, "that my kinswoman's
name should not be sullied by every peasant's breath."

Peasant," iterated Ulrick, his eye flashing fire, and his hand
instinctively grasping the sword, Matilda's gift.

Herman beheld the action, but, confident in his strength and
presumed superior skill, determined to provoke him. His heart
was overflowing with pent-up bitterness and gall. Ulrick appeared
to be a subject on whom he might vent them safely.

Ay ! peasant ! " he repeated ; " or, if thou likest it better, bastard
of a Norman priest."

Liar ! " thundered Ulrick ; " I thank thee for that word ; it nerves
my arm and justifies my hate. Draw, and defend thy life ; be yon
bright moon the witness of our quarrel. Strike at the breast that
never did thee wrong — aim at the heart whose manhood thou wouldst
trample — strike at the life whose current thou wouldst taint, but
Saxon, guard thine own."

So impetuous was the attack of trick that his opponent must
have succumbed, despite his cunning fence and giant strength, had
not the combat been interrupted by a voice all were accustomed to
obey, — by the earl, whose attention, in the course of his evening
walk round the ramparts, had been attracted by the clashing of their
weapons, and who, in his haste to separate them, had sought the spot
unattended and unarmed.

How is this ? " he cried ; " my kinsman and my guest at mortal
strife ! Put up your swords, tell me your cause of quarrel, and let
me judge between you."

Ulrick dropped the upraised weapon from his hand. How explain,
without compromising Matilda's name, the cause of their dispute ?
He bowed his head in silence.

D 2

Well may he be silent," exclaimed Herman, with a coarse
sneer of triumph. " Wouldst thou believe it, noble earl, this peasant
knave, this serf in blood as well as nature, dares raise his eyes
where mine have feared to gaze — e'en to your daughter's love ? "

Young man," demanded the earl, sternly, his brow so deeply
flushed with indignation that it was perceptible even in the pale
moonlight, " can this be true ? "

An hour since, my lord, I had answered No," replied, Ulrick,
for I knew not then the nature of the fire which threatens to consume
me. Hear me, sir earl," he added. " If to have loved your
daughter as mortals love some distant star, as pilgrims worship the
virgin saint before whose shrine they bow, be criminal, I am most
guilty ; but never have these lips breathed words of passion, uttered
one thought of earth. I have adored as spirits worship — in the heart,
in silence ! Farewell, my lord. When men shall speak of the poor
orphan boy who dared to love your peerless child, their tongues shall
say, ' Proud vas his sin, as proud was his atonement ! ' — For you,"
he continued, with a contemptuous glance to Herman, " this time
you have escaped me — beware the next ! "

Bowing with deep reverence to the earl, the excited youth turned
his hasty steps towards the episcopal palace.

Poor boy ! " said the earl, touched by the noble frankness of his
manner, and perhaps viewing his passion more in the light of that
chivalrous devotion which the manners of the age permitted, than
positive love — " were thy birth but noble as thy heart, I would not
turn thee hopeless from my door,"

Perhaps, my lord," said Herman, " this moment may be suited
to the words I have to offer ; at least, I'll seek no other. Thou
knowest the wars in which our Norman sovereign is engaged have
given courage to the Saxon chiefs to attempt one blow for freedom,
to cast off the yoke that for long years has galled them ; it is the
time to knit still closer the bond of unity between us, or weaken it
for ever."

What meanest thou ? " demanded the earl, his attention deeply
interested by the words which the excited Herman, contrary to his
usual caution, had let drop.

It means," said Herman, " that I love your daughter : her hand
once mine, your interests are mine, your nation mine ; the moment
which bestows it sees the conspiracy unravelled, the traitors at your
feet."

The earl, though deeply attached to the interests of his sovereign,
was too generous a father to sacrifice his child to a being so base, so
utterly void of honour. The hint at a conspiracy alarmed him, for
well he knew the uncertain tenure by which the Normans held the
land. He determined, therefore, to keep an eye upon his dangerous
kinsman. With respect to the proposed alliance, he refused to
entertain it for a moment.

Franklin," lie replied, "my life hath been one of honour ; so shall
be my speech. The difference of your years renders your union
with my child impossible. Besides, while I am resolved never to
yield her but to one of equal birth, her heart must be consulted.
Well I know it never can be yours. Speak of it no more. With
respect to the complete of your Saxon friends, we will speak more
before the council ; there may be other means of recompense. Come,
let us to the castle."

No," sternly answered the Saxon, " my path is taken ; to the
castle I return no more. I have had enough of Norman justice, of
Norman hospitality. Farewell ! "

Not so," said the earl ; " you must return with me. You have
said too much or too little to be further trusted."

Must go with you ! " repeated Herman, who saw too late that he
had betrayed himself. "And why must ? "

Because it is my will," replied the earl ; " and I have power to
enforce it. What, ho ! warder ! " he cried, elevating his voice so as
to be heard by the officer who kept watch upon the distant keep,
a guard ! De Bigod to the rescue ! "

Scarcely had the words passed the noble lips than Herman
sprang upon him, and a short struggle ensued. The earl, though
unarmed, was strong, and succeeded in dragging his assailant
towards the moat, when the sword which Ulrick had lately
dropped, and left behind him in his excitement, struck against the
Saxon's foot. In an instant he raised it, and plunged it into the
body of the earl, who, uttering a deep groan, expired at his feet.

The alarm had been given, and Mirvan, with the knights and
guests, followed by the castle guard, were seen hastily approaching
over the bridge. The alarm bell pealed forth its deep loud notes —
flight was impossible : but the assassin's presence of mind did not
forsake him ; he first threw from his grasp the blood-stained sword,
then raising the dead body, he placed it across his knee, and called
loudly for help. In a few moments he was surrounded by Mirvan
and the soldiery.

Heavens ! " exclaimed Mirvan, " my noble father murdered !
Who hath done this ? "

Alas ! I know not," replied the hypocrite. " I came too late to
save him. On my approach the assassin fled. Somewhere he
dropped his sword."

A hundred torches were in an instant bent to earth — the fatal
weapon was found — blood upon it. The knight who raised it held
it to the light. It bore the name of Ulrick.

CHAPTER III.

Night had spread her mantle o'er the twilight world, and found
Herbert de Lozenga seated in an apartment of his episcopal palace ;
on a table near him were two antique mitres, one pertaining to him
as Bishop of Norwich, the other as Abbot of Hulm, by which latter
dignity his successors in the bishopric still sit in the House of
Peers ; before him lay a steel-clasped casket, containing various
papers and memoranda, together with a ruby ring and richly
mounted dagger, upon whose hilt some Saxon artist had sculptured
a rude crest. The prelate had evidently prepared himself for his
promised interview with Ulrick by prayer and stern control ; all
trace of the agitation of the morning had disappeared ; his brow
was calm aS though passion's tempests had never ruffled it, or
human sorrows ploughed cne furrow on its polished surface.

The prelate wondered at his self-possession, and regretted that
he had so long delayed an explanation, which would have prevented
many a painful impression to the disadvantage of his youthful
^rofe^e.

How strange," he murmured to himself, *' is the human heart !
how inexplicable in its strength and in its weakness ! Philosophy
cannot sound its depths. The angels who stand before the throne
of Heaven cannot pierce its mysteries ! He who framed, alone can
read it ! "

His reflections were interrupted by the entrance of Ulrick, whose
flushed brow and hurried step were but the outward signs of the
agitation of his soul. For a few moments his benefactor gazed on
him in silence, at a loss to account for his unusual manner. The
idea that he had been indulging in the wine-cup at the castle,
naturally presented itself, and created a painful impression in his
mind.

Ulrick," he exclaimed, for the first time perhaps in his life
using the accent of reproof, "whence this flushed brow and
flashing eye .? A step like that might suit the battle-field, but
not my peaceful halls. Is this a mood to seek my presence in ? "

In an instant the words recalled the young man to himself. The
fear of giving pain to one whom he so deeply venerated, enabled
him to check the passionate impulse of his heart, and control the
bitterness of its emotions. Never before had he been exposed to
scorn and contumely ; the iron had entered his soul, and he felt it
deeply.

Forgive me, father," replied Ulrick, bending the knee ; " forgive
the boy your charity has reared, if he forgets the lowness of
his state, and dares to act and feel himself a man. Scorn have I met
from one I never wronged — foul-mouthed reproach, and biting,

bitter taunts. Why— why," he added, passionately, " did I ever
for a moment quit this calm retreat, to mingle with a world which
mocks my wretchedness ? "

The cold, reproving manner of the prelate immediately changed.
He saw that Ulrick had been wounded where youth is most
sensitive. In his mind he rejoiced that his first suspicions were
unfounded, and sought, by even more than his usual kindness of
manner, to atone for the involuntary tong,

The world, 'tis true," he said, " is thickly spread with briars
and foul weeds ; but trust my word, sweet flowers may still be
found. What ! Ulrick, foiled in thy first encounter with the
world ! Be more thyself — answer its injustice with high deeds —
pursue life's path wherever honour leads ; and even if happiness
escape thy search, believe me, boy, thou'lt stumble on content."

I feel that I have a heart to bear its dangers manfully,"
answered the young man ; " but not to endure its sneers, its heartless
falsehoods, and its slanderous tongues. If the world, indeed,
be such as schoolmen paint it, and as priests believe, I could,
with scarce one sigh, renounce its charms, and seek a refuge
here."

The despondent tone of Ulrick alarmed his benefactor, who well
knew the impressionable nature of his character, and the advantage
which might be taken from it.

Seek not within the cloister's shade for happiness," he exclaimed,
or shelter from the world ; its jealousies, its slanders and deceits
may reach thee even here. The man who wastes his spring of life,
unloving and unloved, leaving unfilled the ends of his creation,
casting aside the tender ties of parent, lover, friend, may reach
indifference, but rarely happiness. I will relate to thee some passages
of the history of my life," he added — " a life chequered by passions
such as sear the heart — by hopes as bright as those which angels
dream."

The prelate motioned Ulrick to seat himself beside him, and was
about to commence his tale, when he was interrupted by the
entrance of Father Oswald, a Saxon monk, whose frightened mien
indicated that some unusual occurrence had taken place.

Now, son," mildly demanded the bishop ; " what means this
untimely visit ? "

Our sanctuary is invaded," answered the intruder ; " armed
men are in the cloisters, and the tramp of wear disturbs the voice of
prayer. A pursuivant and a party of men-at-arms, in the name
of the Earl of Norwich, demand an audience, venerable father."

A pursuivant and men-at-arms," exclaimed Herbert de Lozenga,
hastily quitting the seat he had assumed ; " and at an hour like
this !— surely you dream. Follow me, Ulrick," he added ; " but
remember, boy, whatever may ensue, mine is the only voice to find
an echo here."

When Herbert and his protege entered the cloisters they found a
number of the brothers, like frightened sheep, gathered together,
gazing on a compact body of men-at-arms, headed by Ernulf, the
reckless squire of Herman of the Burg, who wore over his steel
hauberk a tabard blazoned with the arms of the house of Bigod.
Insolent as he generally was, his eye quailed before the firm step
and indignant glance of the Norman prelate, who, casting a look of
reproof upon his alarmed brethren, boldly fronted him. Ulrick and
Father Oswald closely followed him.

Now, Sir Squire," exclaimed Herbert, " what means your presence
here ? Why are these aisles, the house of prayer and peace,
invaded in the hour of night by armed men in such discourteous
guise ? Was he drunk or mad who sent you here upon this valiant
expedition .? "

Neither, my lord," replied Ernulf, " but sorrowful at the stern
duty others' crimes impose."

Sorrow and duty — others' crimes ! Speak not in riddles, man.
Art really sent by Hugh de Bigod, or is this some jest, ill placed, to
try our patience .? "

Noble prelate, the Earl of Norwich, Hugh de Bigod, is dead."

Dead ! " interrupted Ulrick ; " impossible ! Not two hours since
I left him full of health and vigour, giving the promise of long
years of life."

The noble earl," continued the squire, addressing himself to
Herbert, " has been murdered ; and I am here in the fulfilment of
mine office to arrest his murderer ! Behold him there ! "

The speaker slowly raised the silver staff of his office ; all eyes
followed its direction, till it pointed full at Ulrick. For an instant
the proud glance of the prelate failed. His recollection of the
agitation of his protege — his flushed cheek and quivering lip, drove
the blood fearfully to his heart.

*' Murderer ! " he slowly repeated, fixing his eyes at the same
time on Ulrick ; " murderer ! "

The calm confidence with which the youth met his gaze restored
in an instant his benefactor's confidence. Guilt ne'er wore a look
so pure, so clear as that. A fearful weight fell from the good man's
heart.

And who," he demanded, with cold dignity, '4s his accuser ? "

My noble master, Herman of the Burg," answered Ernulf,
beginning, he knew not why, to feel uneasy at the tone of the priest,
and the cold, statue-like self-possession of the accused.
i " Anathema maranatha ! " shrieked Father Oswald ; " be his

name accursed ! Herman of the Burg hath guilt upon his soul
would damn his race — his path hath been of blood and human
tears ! — he his accuser ! the wolf accuse the lamb ! the kite arraign
the innocent dove ! — crime assume the judgment-seat on virtue !
No," he added, " there is yet a bolt in heaven, and a red arm towing

it." All were appalled at the vehemence of the speaker, whose
vast age, majestic appearance, and fearful penitence had procured
him a high character for sanctity. Seldom he spoke but to demand
the prayers of his confreres — his days were passed in the most rigid
abstinence — his nights in fearful vigils. There was a silence of
some minutes after his denunciations. The bishop was the first to
break it. " Say to your master that Sir Ulrick is prepared to meet
all accusations ; he will remain within these walls until the hour
of trial. I grant him sanctuary, and will answer for his appearance."


It may not be," insolently interrupted Ernulf, whose orders
were at all risks to secure possession of TJlrick's person. "The
murderer may escape. Advance — secure him ! "

The men-at-arms, in obedience to the order of their chief, made
one step to advance towards arresting the accused, when Herbert de
Lozenga interposed between them. His manner was unruffled and
dignified as when seated upon his episcopal throne, in the exercise
of his spiritual office — his voice as firm and calm.

None may arrest within these sacred walls," he exclaimed.
Have you not heard I grant him sanctuary ? Advance one step,
and on each one I breathe the curse, which, in its wrath, has
shattered crowns — broken the sceptres of earth's mightiest kings —
the awful curse of Rome ! "

The soldiers shrank at the prelate's voice as at the presence of a
destroying angel, so profound was their dread of excommunication,
the most tremendous engine ever yet wielded by priestly power ;
even Ernulf, their bold and reckless leader, was prepared to resign
a contest in which he saw that defeat was certain ; for not one man-at-arms,
it was clear, would second him after that fearful threat,
when Ulrick, for the first time, broke silence.

No, father, not for me this contest ; I were indeed unworthy of
thy love, could I consent to shield my honour 'neath thy sacred
mantle. Let craven guilt crouch 'neath the voice of accusation —
innocence fears not the lightning, but defies the storm. If Hugh de
Bigod hath indeed been murdered, I owe it to his son," he added,
to Mirvan's friendship, as well as my own truth, to lay my heart
before him. Sir Squire, I am your prisoner."

In vain did his more cautious protector struggle against the resolution
of the noble youth ; he well knew that innocence is not
always a protection, and would have preferred to guard his 'protege
within the peaceful walls of his own palace. But even his entreaties
were useless. The thought that Matilda had heard the fearful
calumny stung Ulrick to desperation ; he imagined that to prove his
innocence, it was but necessary to assert it ; nor dreamt that there
were beings in the world so practised in the wiles of crime, that
e'en from virtue's self they coxild weave the net that should
entangle it.

STANPIEIiD HALL.

Be it SO ! " exclaimed the prelate, won, but not convinced, by
his arguments ; " give thyself, in the generous confidence of thy
nature, blindly to those now plotting thy destruction : despite thyself,
I'll save thee. Our royal master's confidence gives me a voice
in every tribunal in the realm ; at the hour of judgment, thy enemies
shall hear it."

Ulrick, unwilling to prolong a scene as painful to his own heart
as to the prelate's, tore himself from his embrace, and surrendered
his person to the men-at-arms, who, overjoyed at the unexpected
turn the affair had taken, immediately surrounded him, and bore
him from the cloisters. The monks watched his departure with
regret", for he had been reared from infancy amongst them, and
like some graceful tendril, had twined himself around their rugged
natures. With pensive steps they retired to their cells, leaving
their superior and father Oswald alone.

He is innocent ! " exclaimed Herbert to himself ; " I feel he is
innocent ; guilt never bore a brow so clear as that. Murder scowls;
in its restless eye you read the page of guilt. Yet, how to prove
it ? ■ This Saxon, Herman, bears an evil name. Could he ? I
know not what to think. I'll seek the earl. The cause of quarrel
all must be explained ; the accursed author of the deed made
plain, or Ulrick's life is lost."

It will be," solemnly answered the monk, " unless we help to
save him."

Herbert started at the deep tone of the speaker's voice ; so absorbed
had been his feelings by his favourite's danger, that he had
been unconscious of the old man's presence.

What mean'st thou, brother Oswald ? " he demanded ; a ray
of hope, from certain recollections of the jDast, dawning on his mind.

To the confessional, father," answered the speaker ; there, and
there only, dare I breathe the fearful tale of guilt within thy ears !
a tale," he added, clasping his brow in agony, which fiends
might laugh to hear — a tale which, uttered but in penitence, would
rend this massive pile above my head, and make the very saints
themselves turn pale."

Follow me, son," exclaimed Herbert de Lozenga, in a tone of
mild authority : " and remember that there is no sin so dark beyond
the Church's power to pardon : no stain so deep that tears of
penitence cannot efface it." Long and fearful was the conference
which ensued : the midnight hour found the horror-stricken prelate
still seated, pale as some monumental statue, in his confessional,
and the guilty penitent prostrate at his feet.

Morning had just begun to dawn as Ulrick was led by his guards
to the great hall of the castle, where the nobles and petty vavasor
a species of landed gentry, dependents on the late earl — were
assembled. Unfortunately for the accused, Mirvan was not present ;
he had even a more sacred duty to perform than to avenge his

father's memory — to dry the despairing tears of his sister and
doubly-widowed mother ; for such the gentle Edith had ever
proved to him. Besides, gratitude to the preserver of his life, to
say nothing of his natural sense of justice, prevented his assuming
the judgment-seat, where his feelings were so deeply interested. He
had, therefore, despite the remonstrance of Isabel, and the silent
tears of Matilda, delegated to Herman the authority so fatally
become his ; equally determined, neither by his influence to strain
the course of justice, nor to suffer his friendship for the accused to
impede it.

The hall, so late the scene of mirth and generous hospitality, still
retained some traces of the banquet which had lately graced it.
Side-tables, covered with huge flagons and silver cups, had been
removed into the arched recesses on either side. The gallery,
where lately rang the sound of the minstrel's harp, was crowded
with the sunburnt visages of men-at-arms ; old Norman followers
of the house of Bigod, men who had served in many a gallant field
with the murdered noble, and whose stern visages bespoke a
sombre resolution to avenge him. On the dais at the upper end of
the hall was seated Herman de Burg. No outward indication
marked his internal struggles for composure ; his eye was clouded
as from grief, not restless as through fear. Indeed, so completely
had his sense of danger schooled him that even his squire, Ernull,
the minister of his many crimes — the instrument of his will — the
companion of his thoughts — suspected him not in this. The other
nobles were either seated or standing round him, conversing in low
whispers ; that involuntary respect which death inspires restraining
even the tongues of the more youthful. The body of the deceased
earl, covered With his marshal's mantle, lay extended on a bier in
the centre of the apartment ; two kneeling priests beside it, repeating
the litanies of the dead.

They are long upon their errand," observed an aged knight,
alluding to the expedition sent to secure the person of the accused.
Entirely the monks would never dream of offering resistance."

Their superior may," replied Herman, not altogether easy at
the idea the words suggested ; " he hath ever shown great love for
this same Ulrick. Evil tongues are busy with his name ; men say
the orphan is his son."

No one offered a reply ; the name of Herbert de Lozenga was too
much reverenced by every Norman to be lightly spoken ; to be
even discourteously glanced at by a Saxon's lips was offensive in
the extreme. Herman perceived the ill effect his words had pro-died,
and endeavoured to dissipate it.

Doubtless," he resumed, " the noble prelate deemed such idle
rumours unworthy of his notice. Slander's weapons strike alike,"
he added, " the noble and the clown, nor stay to ask the difference
of degree."

At this moment the confusion and bustle at the lower end of the
hall announced the arrival of the prisoner ; all eyes were fixed upon
him as he advanced with a firm step towards the dais where his
judges and accuser both were seated. As he passed the bier he bent
his head in reverence to the dead ; the only passages in life between
them had been of kindness, and deeply he regretted his untimely
end.

As he glanced towards the table his eye fell upon a sword
stained with blood ; for an instant he started, and his cheek became
flushed ; it was Matilda's gift to him. His judges noted his confusion,
but were silent. Ulrick was the first to speak.

Of what am I accused ? " he demanded, " and by what
authority dragged from my peaceful home before this secret, strange
tribunal .^ "

Of murder ! " solemnly answered the aged seneschal of the late
earl. The slumbering echoes of the old hall were awakened at the
sound, and the word " murder " was repeated as if whispered by
invisible voices. A chill ran through the assembly, whose silence
was again broken by the firm, manly voice of the prisoner.

By whom am I accused ? "

By the noble Saxon Franklin, Herman of the Burg, kinsman to
your victim," again answered the same officer.

For a moment the accuser and accused gazed upon each other.
In the glance of the former might be read the dastard triumph of
vindictive passion ; in the calm, steady gaze of the latter, scorn of
its baseness ; bitter, proud contempt.

I do refuse him for my judge. Hear me, noble Normans," exclaimed
Ulrick ; " 'tis but a few hours since I sat beside you in this
festive hall, the guest of him whose murderer I am called. Returning
home I was assailed by Herman ; not as man should meet his
foe — with unsheathed sword — but with woman's weapons — base
taunts, vile slanders, poisonous words which drink the lifeblood of
the noble heart by poisoning its existence, the coward's corn-age and
the base mind's vengeance. I had chastised him then but for the
interference of the man of whose blood he would accuse me."

Tis false ! " retorted Herman, stung by the keen tone of contempt
which his victim evinced.

'Tis true as thou art false," said Ulrick. " Noble knights, did
you not hear him, when first we met, this very day, breathe forth
the natural venom of his leprous nature ? sneer at my unknown
birth, my orphan state, and mock the heart which never did him
wrong ? "

We did ! " exclaimed several of the younger nobles, who began
to feel interested by the high courage of the prisoner, and to suspect
his accuser's disinterestedness in the affair.

I claim the trial by battle," resumed Ulrick ; " noble knights,
you will not refuse me this ! Give me the chance to meet yon

craven dastard on the list. Heaven will uphold the righteous
weapon and decide between us*'

The nobles and knights at the upper end of the hall consulted
amongst themselves ; several of the younger were for granting the
prisoner's demand, the elder and more influential were against it.
Their advice prevailed over the more generous sentiments of their
confreres. Odo of Caen announced their decision.

It may not be," he said ; " the right you invoke unfortunately
belongs only to the noble and the free-born."

TJlrick bowed his head in shame and silence. The unfortunate
mystery of his birth precluded him from meeting his enemy in the
list of honour — from appealing from the judgment of his foe to
battle.

Ulrick is noble and free-born ! " exclaimed a stern voice at the
end of the hall ; " the mate of any here."

Who dare utter that monstrous lie ? " demanded Herman.

A stately figure, dressed in the habit of a monk, advanced from
the crowd to the higher end of the dais, and steadily confronted
him ; slowly he raised the cowl from his still pale features, and
discovered the person of Father Oswald. Ulricr'"* heart beat high
within him.
" I dare ! " he said. *»

There was nothing in the features of the monk which spoke to
Herman's recollection ; he deemed him a mere emissary of the
bishop, sent to watch the proceedings, and whose zeal in the behalf
of the prisoner had outrun discretion ; still the boldness of the
assertion slightly staggered him.

And on what proof are we to believe thee ? " inquired Odo.

On the word of a noble Saxon," firmly answered the old man.
Then, as if regretting the momentary pride of human life, he
added, in deep humility, " on the faith of an unworthy priest of the
Most High."

The firmness of Father Oswald's manner carried weight with it ;
and a fresh consultation ensued, in which Herman, who now began
to be seriously alarmed at the idea of being compelled to meet his
victim on the list, actively joined, and decided the matter by his
influence. Odo of Caen announced it : —

We neither question, father," he said, " the nobility of thy birth
nor the sincerity of thy heart ; but this is a matter of knightly judgement,
and requires a knightly guarantee. We do again refuse the
combat, unless some noble or some knight confirms by his testimony
the nobility of Ulrick's birth."

The prisoner, agitated by hope and fear, turned from the haughty
speaker to the extraordinary witness who had strangely testified in
his favour. The old man met his glance with a smile of encouragement
and benevolence, but was silent,

You hear .?" said Herman, with a sneer ; " a noble and a knight''

c

He must be noble ? " demanded the monk, with hesitation ;
but under which a closer observer than Herman might have perceived
a cold smile of conscious triumph.

He must," impatiently iterated Herman ; " as noble as myself."


And a knight ? " coolly continued Oswald.

Like myself, he must wear upon his heels the golden spurs of
chivalry," haughtily replied the Saxon ; " if thou canst find such
a witness."

He is found already," interrupted the monk ; " thou art that
witness."

All started at the firmness with which the aged man pronounced
the words, and Herman himself turned pale. Ulrick, as our readers
may naturally suppose, was not the least excited at the scene. The
clouds, the dark clouds of mystery which had so long obscured his
birth, seemed for the first time about to clear. To him, who knew
the sombre character of the speaker — the holiness of his life, his
rigid love of truth, his fasts and fearful penance — the words of the
monk were as oracles. He feared to speak, lest his voice should
break the spell — lest he should find his glimpse of happiness was
but a dream.

What should I know of the craven bastard's birth ? " faintly
muttered Herman, in a hoarse voice. " "What jugglery is this ? "
"* Father Oswald advanced to the wretched man, and slowly raised
to his view a ruby ring, the same which Ulrick had previously
noticed lying on the table of the bishop at the interview which had
been interrupted by his arrest. The effect on Herman was electrical.
Had an accusing angel risen before him and displayed the record of
his secret crimes, he could not have been more appalled ; indeed,
his agitation was so visible that all remarked and commented on it.
Could the agony of mind which he endured have effaced a
life of crime, in that bitter moment Herman had atoned for all.

Dost recognise the token ? " demanded the monk, still holding
the ring before his eyes.

I do," faintly answered the conscience-stricken man.

And Ulrick's birth is noble .? " he continued.

There was a pause — involuntarily the astounded criminal's hand
rested on the hilt of his dagger, and then fell motionless beside
him. The cold, stony glance of his pitiless questioner seemed to
have deprived him of all power of resistance, as birds are supposed
to be fascinated by the eye of the rattlesnake ; the struggle between
hate and terror was intense, but terror conquered.
It is," he faintly murmured.
*' As noble as thine own ? " added the monk.
As noble as my own ! " frantically exclaimed Herman.
Unable longer to endure the recollections and terrors which the
Bight of the mysterious token conjured up, he rushed from the hall.

leaving his brother nobles to make their comments on his conduct,
and arrange for the combat which he now felt to be inevitable.

Surprise and consternation were on the countenances of all ; men
felt that they had assisted at a scene whose mystery was yet to be
unravelled. The unexpected testimony borne to the nobility of
Ulrick's birth by his bitterest enemy, and through the agency of the
monk, excited the imagination, and caused a more favourable sentiment
towards the prisoner. Many a half-forgotten tale to the
prejudice of his accuser was revived ; most began to doubt the truth
of the accuser, and it was finally settled that the trial by battle
should take place in three days, Ulrick in the interim remaining inclose
ward, under the custody of Herman.

Vainly both the prisoner and the monk protested against a decision
which placed the former in the power of his deadliest enemy ;
their resolution was not to be revoked. In vain Ulrick intreated to
be allowed to converse in private with the mysterious being who
seemed to possess the clue to his wretched destiny. His judges
were inexorable. The youth was conducted to his dungeon, and
Father Oswald slowly pursued his pathway to the monastery.

Thrice was Ernulf summoned by his impatient master, who
rushed from the hall, where he had been so singularly confronted,
more with the air of a raving maniac than a Christian knight.
After long years of fancied security and peace, a clue seemed found
to his disgrace ; the baseless fabric of his honour already tottered ;
and conscience presented to his tortured imagination the rabble's
curse, his brother nobles' scorn. He was pacing his chamber, a
prey to these and similar reflections, when the ready instrument of
so many of his crimes appeared before him.

Hast thou beheld yon cursed monk ? " he exclaimed. " Didst
recognise the token by which he mastered me ? Can this Ulrick be
indeed the being whom I most fear to name, whose image haunts
me in my dreams, the certainty of whose existence would poison all
my joys, e'en were they those of Paradise ? "

Impossible, my lord," replied Ernulf ; " this stripling is of
Norman, not of Saxon blood. The pampered prelate brought him
a child to England. Why, I remember him ere he could lisp a word
of Saxon tongue. Your fears betray you."

'* But the ring — the ring — the father's ancient crest," interrupted
Herman, " lost on that night when my arm failed me. Cursed bethe
tempest's terrors which unmanned me, and doubly cursed the
meddling fiend who foiled me in my purpose ! "

My lord," exclaimed Ernulf, after a few moments' reflection,
I think I can explain this seeming mystery. Some dying penitent
gave the ring to yonder monk — perhaps made him the depositor of
his suspicions, for proofs he had none ; and the cunning churchman
hath used the knowledge to his purposes — it can be nothing
more."

Perchance," muttered Herman, but half satisfied at the suggestion,
yet still grasping at it like some drowning man ; " yet I would
make assurance more than sure. This monk — this being who, like
Providence enveloped in a thundercloud, unseen can strike me :
he must die ! "

Die ! " repeated the squire, recoiling with superstitious horror
at the idea of steeping his hands in a churchman's blood — " not by
my hands, my lord ! 'Tis true they are stained enough already, but
not with priestly blood. Oh, never, never ! "

Churl ! is it redder than a noble's 1 " said his master, with a
sneer ; *' beside, thy life is in the noose. Should this mad priest
possess the key to my past crimes, thickest thou they would
hesitate to place thee on the rack to warring confession of them ? Asa
noble, I might perish by the sword ; but think, Ernulf , how fearful
a destiny would then be thine ! "

The argument was artfully used, and not without its due effect
upon his hearer, who well knew how little their Norman rulers
hesitated to employ the torture upon men of far higher lineage than
his own. Herman watched his hesitation.

Besides," he added, " in a distant land I will enable thee to live

in safety and in honour. Thou knowest I am no churlish master ;

restore to me my signet-ring, no matter by what means ; and let

me hear the only being whom I dread on earth is dead, I'll count

thee down a thousand silver marks."

Faith ! 'tis a tempting sum ! " exclaimed the ruffian, his eyes
sparkling with cupidity.

And for what ? " continued the tempter ; " for cutting the exhausted
thread of an old man's life — extinguishing a dying lamp.
Decide thee, man ; the tithe part of the sum I offer thee would buy
thee pardon for a dozen murders."

It will be difficult," said Ernulf musingly ; " Father Oswald
seldom leaves the cloister's shelter. 'Tis true he sometimes sits in
the confessional, shriving such penitents as speak no Norman
tongue ; but then it would be sacrilege ; and that "

Too, shall be paid for," interrupted his master ; " 'Tis just that
every crime should have its price — are we agreed .? "

"We are," rejoined the squire, chuckling at the anticipation of
the promised gold ; " be he priest or fiend, I'll drive my weapon to
his heart. Within two days you shall have news of me."

Thus did Herman, and his too willing minister, continue to plot
fresh crime. The forbearance of Heaven they regarded as impunity,
and in the fancied security of their cunning defied its vengeance.
They knew not that if the steeds of Divine Justice are sometimes
slow, they are sure — that her hand is iron, and her blow is death.

*' What was the decision in the hall below ? " demanded the
franklin, *' after the monk — curse on my weakness — drove me from
the hall ? "

The combat was decided on."

I know — I know ! " muttered Herman — *' they could not well
refuse it. Where is the Norman bastard ? "

Safe in a dungeon of the castle, in your custody."

In my custody ! " repeated his master ; " humph ! — that was
kind at least — and in how many days the combat ? "

Three days, my lord ! " said the squire ; and a look of peculiar
intelligence passed between them.

Three days," muttered Herman, as he quitted the apartment ;
'* the time is short, but, well employed, much may be done by
then."

At a later period of the day a cavalcade might be seen approaching
the castle from the episcopal palace ; heralds with their towards
blazoned with the arms of the Church led the way, then followed a
party of priests and men-at-arms, who preceded the litter in which
rode Herbert de Lozenga, the ensigns of his office as Chancellor of
England being borne before him. Several of the nobles beheld his
arrival with dissatisfaction ; they felt indignant at the idea of his
lending the sanction of his name and influence to shield the assassin
of one of his own order. The greeting between them was, therefore,
more of sullen respect than cordial welcome. The prelate
marked their manner, but disregarded it ; his courage was too high,
his purpose too holy, to be influenced by the opinion of his fellowmen.
Just as he passed the bridge Herman appeared, and in tho
name of the young earl bade him welcome, at the same time bending
his knee so as to receive the Apostolic benediction ; but no upraised
hand, no air-drawn cross, followed the act — the piety of the bishop
was too sincere to permit his lips to speak the blessing his heart
could not bestow. The disappointed man rose from his knee in
bitter mortification, and leading the way preceded his unwelcome
guest to the late earl's private apartment, where their conversation
could be carried on without interruption. Each was on his
guard ; the guilty one felt that a searching eye was upon him, the
priest that he had to do with one a master in the art of crimean
adept in dissimulation. Herman was the first to break the
silence.

Forgive me, reverend father," he exclaimed, "if in the reception
you have met with here aught has been lacking to your honour.
The hand of grief is on my kinsman's house ; he mourns his father
lost, his friendship stained, his confidence abused, else had he shown
the reverences it is my lot to offer."

'Tis well," replied the prelate ; " the cloister's shade I quitted
not for the sake of man's observance or the world's vain honours,
but at the call of justice and of truth. By what right have you
profaned with ruffian violence our holy church, and torn the
youth I cherish as a son from me, his guardian and protector ?
Speak."

;vv^^^

0^

X^^^''

There was a firmness, a conscious power, in the speaker's voice
which grated on the listener's ear. Still he determined to yield no
inch of vantage ground — the guardianship of Ulrick's person. The
ring which the monk had presented to his view opened to his mind
a fearful doubt ; and he determined at any sacrifice to rid himself
of one whom conscience clothed in the character of an
avenger.

'' Is it possible, my lord ! " he answered with well-feigned
astonishment ; " would you lend the sanction of your high name to
shield a murderer ? The indignant earth, which drank the victim's
blood, groans 'neath the homicide's polluted tread, and calls for
Ulrick's life."

I deem him innocent ; men do not fall at once from virtue into
the extreme of vice. I demand that he be committed to my care ;
my palace walls will better answer for his safety than can a dungeon
here."

You deem him innocent," iterated the franklin ; " surely, my
lord, you have not heard the proofs ; his quarrel with the earl — his
sword found near the spot."

Something I heard of taunts and bitter jests, unmanly sneers,
which sting the generous soul," gravely answered Herbert ; " but
nothing of a quarrel with the earl. The hour of combat is appointed.
You yourself," he added with peculiar emphasis, " are witness of
the nobility of Uh'ick's birth. I again demand that till that hour
he be committed to my care."

Impossible," said Herman ; *' the proposition wounds my
honour."

And would defeat your purpose,"

'' Can you suspect, my lord ? "

Everything," replied the bishop, drawing himself proudly up ;
Herman of the Burg, I am not one whom thou mayst trifle with ;
Ulrick, or thou, must with me."

I ! " faltered the astonished franklin.

Thou ! If I cannot release your victim, I can at least enchain
his captor."

This is madness ! " said Herman, rising with a pride equal to
the prelate's, and throwing open the doors of the apartment.
Enter, my lords," he cried, "and judge between us. Our reverend
father hath declared that Ulrick must be released, or I become his
prisoner."

Prisoner ! " exclaimed the several nobles as they entered ; " and
on what pretence ? "

*' Sorcery and murder ! " exclaimed the deep voice of Father
Oswald, who had entered with the crowd, and commenced reading
from a parchment : " I cite, in the name of the most reverend
Father Herbert de Lozenga, Bishop of Norwich and Abbot of Hulm,
Herman of the Burg to appear before the above reverend prelate, to

answer to the charge of having sold a Christian child to the Arch-druid
Haga for human sacrifice."

All who heard shrank with horror at the charge. Overwhelmed
as Herman was by it, his courage did not quite forsake him.

Who," he demanded, " is my accuser .? "

I am ! " thundered the priest ; " I, Haga the Arch-Druid."
Then, sinking on his knees at the feet of the bishop, he added, in a
voice of deep humility, " I, Oswald the Christian."

CHAPTER IV.

The consternation of Herman at the unexpected accusation of
Father Oswald, or, as he was formally called, Haga the Arch-Druid,
may be more easily imagined than portrayed ; the crime of sorcery
was, in the eleventh century, the most fearful that could be alleged.
Society rejected the supposed criminal with horror — the Church
cast him from her bosom — his children deserted him — even the
sacred tie of marriage, the bond which mystically united him body
and soul with the companion of his life, the mother of his offspring,
became dissolved, and the wretched man stood like the genius of
desolation in the world — alone.

The Norman nobles who had hitherto supported Herman drew
from his side — ^as superstitious as they were brave, they shrank from
an encounter with one whose arms were the spiritual weapons of
their mutual faith — and Herbert would have met no difficulty in
securing his prisoner had not succour arrived from a quarter where
he least expected it. The franklins stepped forward to a man, and
guaranteed the appearance of the accused before the ecclesiastical
tribunal — a caution which, by the laws of Edward the Confessor,
the bishop could not refuse to accept. But this unexpected unanimity
on the part of the Saxons gave rise in the prelate's mind to a
strange doubt.

Uncertain rumours of an intended revolt of the conquered race
had indeed reached him ; but nothing tangible, nothing certain.
He wits, however, too cautious a statesman to betray his suspicions
too experienced a huntsman to let the ban wolf know that the
hounds were on his track. Had the deceased earl been equally
prudent, he might have been living still.

'Tis well, sir franklins," he said. " I accept your surety for the
appearance of Herman of the Burg ; but it is on one condition, and
one condition only ! "

Name it — name it," cried several voices, impatiently.

A man accused of sorcery may not be the guardian of a Christian
noble ; for noble Ulrick is, even by the testimony of his accuser.
Resign him to my care."

No ! " exclaimed the Normans, unanimously — who, however
submissive in things spiritual, bitterly resented the bishop's interference
in their feudal justice — "he is a murderer ! "

Grant him such ; still he is a Christian, and may not be the
captive of a man o'er whom the Church suspends her awful malediction.
Provoke me, and it falls on him and all who aid him in
his crimes."

Ulrick shall be our captive," replied Odo of Caen. " I will be
answerable for his safe appearance on the day of battle ; will that
content you ? "

It must," murmured the crowd of nobles. " "We will all answer
with our lives and honours for his favourite's safety ; we will keep
faithful ward "

And honourable treatment ? " demanded Herbert de Lozenga,
who, finding he could obtain no better terms, was fain to accede.

My word," answered Odo, " is the pledge of that ; till the day
of battle. Sir Ulrick shall be honourably guarded and well tended ;
nor friends nor Eyes shall have access to him. I'll hold his life as
sacred as I would the blazon of my shield — the honour of my house.
But his safe keeping touches our feudal privileges : my lord, we will
maintain them."

The decided tone of the speaker told Herbert that all further
discussion would be useless ; and having, as he hoped, secured the
life of his protege against any possible machinations of his enemy,
he resolved to appear satisfied with the concessions he had already
obtained ; but three days were to elapse before the day of battle,
and in that brief space he had much work to do for Ulrick's safety.

Farewell, my lords," he said ; " let us not part in anger. We
have each our duties to perform ; judge, then, each other kindly.
I leave you with every confidence in your knightly faith ; Heaven
will decide between us if you break it."

Every knee was bent to the earth to receive the parting benediction
of the man whose arrival they had so coldly welcomed, whose
reasonable demand they had so unjustly opposed. Submissive as
were the Norman nobles to the Church in all things spiritual, they
were jealously susceptible when it trenched upon their feudal
rights ; and Ulrick's cause was even slightly prejudiced in their
minds by a churchman's advocacy.

Faint smile of mingled satisfaction and triumph passed Herman's
lips as the train of the bishop crossed the castle bridge ; but a deep
observant eye was upon him, for Father Oswald, who had lingered
behind his superior, read that smile, interpreted its purpose, and
determined to prevent it. Instead of crossing the moat with the
rest of his brethren, the monk hastily drew his cowl over his features,
passed quickly to the western side of the massive keep, nor paused
till he reached the angle which it formed with the chapel, the
entrance to which was by a low-arched door, rich in sculptured

imagery. Satisfied that none observed him, he drew a key from
his bosom, applied it to the door, and disappeared within its gloomy
shade.

The meddling churchman," exclaimed Herman, who, surrounded
by his brother franklin, stood at the foot of Bigod's tower, watching
the departure of the prelate, " to accuse one of my blood of sorcery !
The hour is not far distant when dear he may abide it. Noble Odo,"
he added, addressing the Norman, who was standing near him,
"what thickest thou of yon shaveling's scheme to shield his
pampered minion ? "

Each power claims its subjects," coolly answered the knight.
The sorcerer to the stake ! the assassin to the block ! Although I
will not suffer Mother Church to interfere with my justice, I am
too dutiful a son not to respect hers ; aye, by my crest, and execute
it too, let me but see good reason on her side."

There was something in the tone of the speaker's voice which
vibrated to the very heart of Herman, and blanched his cheek with
fear. He saw that the Normans, while resolute to obtain justice on
the presumed murderer of their chief and brother noble, were perfectly
indifferent as to his fate ; nay, that they would assist, if called
upon, to execute any judgment which the ecclesiastical tribunal
might pronounce upon him, even though its sentence were the
stake. He felt that his only chance of safety lay in the success of the
insurrection to which he was so deeply pledged.

It would require a keener sword than even Odo of Caen's,"
retorted Herman, " to execute a sentence that touched either my
honour or my life."

The brow of the Norman became flushed, and his hand instinctively
grasped the hilt of his weapon ; but With a violent effort he restrained
himself.

Sir Saxon," he replied, " I will not be tempted ; thou art the
champion of a sacred cause. Would 'twere in better hands ! But
thou art its champion, and therefore inviolate."

The speaker turned upon his heel and entered the tower as he
spoke, without deigning to cast a second glance on the unworthy
franklin.

The first act of Odo on entering the castle was to give orders to
his esquire, in whom he placed unlimited confidence, to conduct a
party of his immediate followers to the tower where Ulrick was
confined, and to keep joint watch with his gaolers ; to accompany
all who entered the prison, and to guard the life of the prisoner as
carefully as he would his master's honour — a precaution, as the sequel
will show, not unwisely taken, but which would have been defeated,
had not an eye more vigilant, a heart more devoted than his, watched
over Ulrick's safety.

Edith, the unhappy Edith, doubly widowed by the death of Hugh
de Bigod, had retired to Cranfield on her husband's death.

It is true he was not the object of her early choice. The passionate
enthusiasm of her young heart, the dreams which, broken once, we
ne'er can dream again, were long since buried in the grave of Edward ;
but respect, esteem, friendship, all that her blighted feelings could
bestow, the earl had long since won, and she mourned his loss — if
not as women mourn the being whom they love, at least with honour
and respect.

It was on the evening which closed the first day of her widowhood
that she was pensively seated in the long unvisited cabinet we
formerly described. Judith, her still faithful attendant, and the
confidante of her sorrows, was at her side. Many and sad were the
thoughts which occupied her mind. In that apartment she had
listened to the first vow of love breathed into her virgin ear ! It
was there she had so oft received her father's blessing, tasted the
thrilling pleasure of her child's caress, and there had mourned them
both. Her faithful companion's words of consolation fell on a
listless ear when she whispered hopes of future happiness and peace.

'' Happiness ! " she exclaimed ; " no, Judith, no ! The world
knows not the word for me. All who ever loved the wretched
Edith have been blighted by her fatal destiny ! The gentle Edward,
my kind old father, and my noble boy — all, all have perished, because
they were dear to me. I am a thing accursed — a withered tree
without one verdant leaf ! and when I fall a stranger's hand will
lay me in the grave — a stranger's foot pace through my father's
halls."

The hopeless tone in which the words were spoken silenced even
the well-meaning Judith, who, with the tact which affection gives,
comprehended that her attempts at consolation were ill-timed.

Sinking on her knees beside her unhappy mistress, she timidly
kissed her hand, and as she did so bedewed it with tears — a sympathy
more eloquent and grateful to affliction than words, which wake no
echo in the heart.

Now thou art kind," Judith, she continued. *' Thou hast given
me tears, not hopes. I have hoped and trusted, but now I'll trust
no more ! The grave is our only refuge from despair, and death the
only hope which ne'er deceives us."

Religion is a better hope, my child," exclaimed the deep-toned
voice of Herbert de Lozenga, who entered the apartment. " Remember,
there is no state so wretched — no fate so dark — but one
kind ray of mercy yet may cheer it."

At the sight of the prelate, whom a holy and important purpose
had brought to Cranfield, the widowed countess cast herself upon
her knees to implore his benediction, exclaiming as she did so —

Your blessing, father, your blessing ! Pour words of peace into
my bleeding heart ! Teach rebel nature to submit its tears, its vain
regrets, and impious struggles unto His will who chastened where
He loveth."

'Tis thine, most noble lady ; it is thine ! " replied Herbert.
May Heaven endue thy soul with strength to bear the trials in its
-wisdom laid on it ! 'Tis natural," he added, raising her as he spoke,
to mourn for those we love ! Life from its cradle to the grave
teaches no other lesson ! But sorrow never should destroy our usefulness
— never should prevent the gentle exercise of charity and
mercy."

The slight tone of reproof, mingled with the earnest benevolence
oi: the speaker, excited the attention of Edith, who misconceived,
however, its tendency.

My gold I'll freely give unto the poor. The Church hath not
found me, I trust, a niggard, father."

'Tis not the altar's streaming incense, lady — the costly offering
of superfluous wealth — which forms the only sacrifice that Heaven
demands ! 'Tis the more active exercise of virtue, shielding the
innocent, and aiding the oppressed."

I do not understand you," replied the countess. " Point out the
way my services can be of use to any ! Fear not my zeal, but tax
it to the uttermost."

Ulrick," said the priest, " is innocent ! Designing men conspire
against the noble boy — in secret work his ruin ! Your voice, lady,
must be heard in his defence."

'Tis powerless, father, here. Herman wields his kinsman's
delegated rights — ego, plead to him,"

To Herman," iterated the bishop ; " no, lady, no ! He hates the
gallant youth, and ^\ith untiring vengeance still pursues him ; it
burns as fiercely in the villain's breast as when I snatched him first
an infant from the dagger's murderous aim."

An infant ! " exclaimed both Judith and the countess, the latter
of whom became pale as death at the faint ray of hope which the
speaker's words let dawn upon her mind.

Though now," Resumed Herbert, " I wear the mitre on my
brow, and rank and empty pomp and state are mine, when first I
left the world my path was humble — a hermit's cave was my abode.
To thee 'twere useless to repeat the wrongs which drove me from
my native land. I was a moody, melancholy man, unloving and
unloved ! My ties of kindred, my ancestral rank, I cast aside ; and
in this distant isle sought refuge for myself. Perhaps the recluse
in V\^indham's lonely cell was happier than the prelate in his
halls."

Isn't possible ? " interrupted Edith, with unfeigned surprise.
Art thou the hermit of St. Mary's cave ? "

E'en so," said Herbert, with a melancholy smile. " He whose
first errand was of grief and death — he who announced the murder
of thy lord — perchance his second is of peace and hope."

Hope ! " murmured his listener ; " what have I on earth to hope
or fear .? " A glance from the prelate thrilled her very soul.

Speak, father," she exclaimed ; " you have raised thoughts that
swill either restore or crush me ! "

One stormy night," he continued, resuming his narrative, " a
traveller, driven by the unpitying tempest, sought shelter at my
cave. Nestled at his breast an infant lay, whose innocent smile
had won e'en fiends to mercy. Refreshed, I left him to repose.
Returning to perform a midnight penance, I beheld the ruffian aim
his dagger at the infant's throat. Heaven lent me courage. I
wrenched the weapon from the murderer's grasp. He fled the spot
and never more returned."

When was this ? " gasped Edith.

Twenty years ago, St. Hubert's eve," replied the bishop. *' This
ring," he continued, at the same time producing the ruby — whose
effect upon her unworthy kinsman we have already described —
dropped in the struggle, " bears the well-known crest of Herman's
ancient house ! Confounded at the sight of it, he hath already owned
that Ulrick's birth is noble."

It is ! it is ! " shrieked Edith. " Father, it was my child thy
guardian hand preserved. Oh, wretched mother ! to have seen my
boy, yet felt no token of his presence ! Had not my heart been cold,
seared as the inmate's of a charnel house, it sure had leapt to meet
him. Norman," she continued, casting herself at his feet, " swear
thou dost not deceive me ! By thine order's' oath, thy mother's
blessing, swear that he is mine."

I do believe it," answered the bishop. " Haga the Arch-Druid,
whom Heaven, through its unworthy servant, hath redeemed from
the dark errors of his pagan creed, hath confessed he gave into
Herman's hand a drug of power to steep the senses in oblivious
sleep, on condition that the child should be consigned to him."

To him ! To Odin's priest ! " exclaimed the excited mother.
No, no ! Better that he had perished in the flames in which I
had deemed him lost. It is too horrible. He could not have made
a compact for my boy ! Father, what have I done — what deadly
crime committed — that Heaven should wreak such cruel vengeance
on my sinless child ? " Edith pressed her hands to her flushed
brow, as if to repress the wild pulsations of its agony. Fortunately
a flood of tears relieved her overwrought heart, which else had yielded
to its wild emotions. A pause ensued, which Herbert wisely for-fore
to break. He beheld the mother's tears flow on with pleasure ;
for he knew that nature had unsealed their fountain to afford relief.
My boy — my poor, lost, persecuted boy," at last sobbed Edith,
her memory slightly wandering, " could no blood but thine bedew
the Druids' stone ? Was there no pitying angel to protect thee ? "

Heaven hath protected him," said the prelate, in a mild, reproving
tone. " Its justice smote the minister of blood. The night
before the fearful compact was to be fulfilled, Haga was stretched
upon affliction's couch ! Chance led me to his wild retreat, where

human footsteps feared to tread. I watched, I tended — saved him.
Heaven gave eloquence to my unworthy tongue, and truth prevailed.
Ere many days elapsed I poured the regenerating waters of baptism
on his repentant head."

But my boy — my Edward's boy ? " demanded Edith.

Herman, no doubt, would have fulfilled his pledge to Haga,
but found him raging on a bed of sickness. Wandering with his
burthen in the storm, he sought my cell for shelter. You know the
rest."

I do ! I do ! Heaven hath heard the widowed mother's prayers."

And doubtless will preserve him," added the prelate ; " but this
is the time for action, not for words. Ulrick is accused of Hugh de
Bigod's death, and hath appealed unto the battle's test. Herman,
his accuser is of giant strength, and skilled in cunning fence.
Should his sword prevail, the block and axe will be his victim's
doom."

The block ! " exclaimed Edith, starting like a roused lioness at
the appalling image. " The headsman's office for my Edward's boy !
I will call up the vassals of my house. I still have kindred —
friends. Enslaved, enthralled, and humbled as we are, the Saxon
courage is not yet so low that Norman axe should fall on a son of
mine."

Be cautious, lady ; one false step may ruin all. Edda, the father
of your Edward, lives, honoured and loved, the most powerful noble
of the Saxon race. Seek his presence ; fly to him for aid, tell him
the heir of his long line yet lives. His strength Avill aid thy weakness,
his wisdom find a clue to this disastrous maze."

It was arranged that Edith, that very night, should, under the
escort of the benevolent prelate, seek the protection of the aged
franklin, whose stronghold was but a few hours' ride from Cranfield.
Judith was accordingly sent to give orders for the departure of her
excited mistress. The faithful attendant soon returned with consternation
marked in every feature. It seems that, during the
interview, Herman, accompanied by a numerous body of vassals, had
arrived at the holm, and learning that the prelate had preceded
him, had taken possession of the hall, giving strict orders that no
one should be permitted to quit the building without his permission.
His conscience told him that all had been discovered ; he determined,
therefore, to throw off the mask, and by one bold step secure himself,
if possible, against the punishment of his many crimes. Ibis
followers, as deeply implicated as himself in the conspiracy against
the Norman race, applauded, and were the willing instruments of his
design. He persuaded them that their schemes were all betrayed,
and that if Herbert de Lozenga left the place alive, the cord and axe
would be their general doom. " Let them perish ! " he exclaimed ;
the hunter hath fallen into the lion's lair, and prudence commands
that he should die I "

It was secretly resolved that that part of the holm in which the
apartments of Edith were situated should be fired, care being taken
that none of its inmates escaped.

Lost ! lost ! " said Edith, when Judith had concluded her
report. " Fortune hath cheated me with a gleam of happiness, to
make me feel my misery the stronger."

Courage, dear lady," replied her faithful friend ; " hope hath
not yet abandoned us. I have heard that from' this very chamber
one of your ancestors, pressed by the enemy, once fled through a
secret passage."

Known but to one ancient follower of our house," replied the
countess, " who, even if he live, must be so aged that memory's seat
is shaken."

Shaken," said Judith, " but not destroyed. At times flashes
will fall from memory's torch, and shed a vivid light on scenes long
past."

Seek him," said the bishop. " I know the man with whom we
have to cope. 'Tis our last hope, and should it fail, and death becomes
inevitable, remember that the priest is present for his office,
and that heaven is near."

Judith required no second command, but hastened to the remote
apartment of the venerable servitor, whose vast age had long disqualified
him for all active service, but who had been retained to
dream away the winter of his life beneath the roof of those whom
he had so long and faithfully obeyed. The period of her absence,
though short, appeared to the prelate and unhappy mother an age.
Slight as was the chance of escape, the return of the faithful attendant,
leading the seneschal, long since blind with age, was a relief that
seemed to say all hope was not extinct.

Where, where do you lead me ? " fretfully exclaimed the , old
man, displeased at being taken from his favourite nook. " Why
have you dragged me here ? I passed the court ; where am I ?
There used to be a step. Yes, yes — there used to be a step."

It was evident that he was endeavouring to recollect the spot to
which Judith had conducted him, but that memory was struggling
with the infirmities of age.

Knowest thou where thou art ? " demanded Herbert de Lozenga,
in a soothing tone.

No ! no ! " petulantly replied Hubert. " Who is it that questions
me ? Thine is no Saxon tongue. Lead me back, I pray. The air
blows damp and chill, and my limbs tremble."

Hopeless ! hopeless ! " said Edith, sinking on her chair.
His mind is gone — quite gone."

It was curious to mark the effect of Edith's voice. The old man
trembled like an aspen leaf ; its tone had awoke some long-forgotten
echo in his heart. He had half-turned, as if to find his way back
from whence he came, when its sound arrested him.

Speak to him, lady," whispered the prelate. " He knows your
voice best."

Hubert," said the countess, advancing and taking his hand,
hast thou forgotten me ? "

I know, I know thee ! " he exclaimed : " thou art my master's
child. Lady, the oldest vassal of thy house would bend the knee
before thee, but 'tis stiff with age."

Hubert," said his agitated mistress, " danger besets my steps,
and I must fly — fly from my father's roof."

The word " danger " seemed to restore the old man's faculties.
Twice he endeavoured to erect his curbed limbs, like some worn
war-steed, who heard the distant trumpet's clang, and thirsts for the
fray.

Danger ! " he repeated. " What danger can assail our lady
here ? Shall I raise the banner of your house ? " There was
something affecting in the spirit of the old servitor, whose devotion
had so long outlived his strength.

No, Hubert, no," replied Edith. " Mine is a peril that must be
met by flight. The times are changed, old man, and we must meet
them. This was my grandsire's chamber," she added, " from
whence I have heard there is a secret passage which leads beyond
the moat — know'st thou of such ? "

Hush ! " whispered the aged servitor ; " there is such a passage.
It — it — oh, memory, memory, do not desert me now ! "

The speaker passed his thin, attenuated hand over his withered
brow, to assist his broken recollections, his hearers gazing on him in
anxious expectation.

Where is it ? " demanded Herbert de Lozenga, no longer able to
keep silence.

The seneschal started at the sound of the prelate's voice ; 'twas
not the one he recognised. And, with the suspicion natural to the
aged, he doggedly refused to answer him. It was some time before
even Edith's voice could lead him to the subject.

No, lady," he repeated, " there is no passage. I am old, but
faithful, A stranger must not learn the secrets of your house — I
have sworn to keep them — Hubert will guard his oath."

Hubert ! " exclaimed the countess, excited to desperation by the
disappointment of her hopes, " I tell thee that I am beset with
dangers — my life is in peril. Thou knowest the secret passage from
this chamber ; make one effort — recall one ray of memory to thine
aid — do it, and save thy mistress from despair ! " The speaker's
tears fell fast upon his hands, which, in her agony she had taken.

*' Despair ! " he repeated, almost childishly, " and tears — my
lady's tears ! Then I must — I must. Give me a moment — where
am I .? "

In my grandsire's chamber — the one in which he died."

The panelled one .? "

** The same," said Edith, making a signal that neither of her
companions should speak, as it was evident that every voice but hers
disturbed his recollection and excited his suspicion.

Tell me, lady," he resumed *' what is the hour of day ? "

'Tis night, Hubert — alas ! 'tis night ! " exclaimed his mistress,
deeming from the question that his mind was becoming again a
blank, and that the clue was for ever lost — " night, dark as my
destiny ! "

Night ! ah, true, true ! Does the moon shine upon the oriel
window ? "

*' It does — it does ! " she replied, hope once more dawning at his
question.

When," resumed the old man " the shadow of the cross within
your ancient shield falls on the oak-carved panels, then — then — your
father, lady — but we are Normans now," and so again the old man's
memory failed him, and he was wandering in a disjointed strain.
An expression of childish apathy succeeded to the intelligence he
had so lately displayed, and the last ray of recollection quitted him
for ever.

Fortunately Herbert de Lozenga had caught every word he uttered.
In the centre of the window to which he had alluded was a coat of
arms of stained glass, the red cross in which, when struck by the
rays of either the sun or moon, cast a broad shadow upon one of the
rudely-carved panels in the wall. On a patient examination the
prelate at length succeeded in discovering the spring, which was an
iron leaf curiously concealed amidst the oaken foliage ; it quickly
yielded to the strong pressure of his eager hand, and the path of safety
lay open to their view.

The path is open," he exclaimed ; " not a moment must be
lost."

Judith hastily enveloped the agitated countess in a dark mantle,
and prepared to follow her, when the heat, which had increased to
a fearful extent in the apartment, and which, from the anxiety
caused by their position, they had scarcely observed, burst into a
flame ; perhaps the current of fresh air which the opening of the
secret passage admitted hastened the calamity.

Heavens, the holm is in flames ! " said Edith. " We cannot
leave the old man to perish here ; that were poor gratitude for
faithful service : aid me to save him, father."

By their united efforts Hubert was led safe into the recesses of
the passage, whose existence he had so miraculously disclosed, and
there left till aid was sent to remove him. The three fugitives,
after traversing the long, damp passage, emerged into a ruined hut,
situated in the deepest recesses of the forest. The prelate cast his
eyes around and recognised the abode of Haga, the Arch-Druid.
Fortunately, he knew the country well, and a few hours' walk
brought them to one of the numerous convents which owned his

spiritual sway. Shelter was instantly obtained, and a strict injunction
for secrecy imposed on all its inmates.

I can brave the world securely now," thought Herman, as the
flames of Cranfield reddened in the night. " Edith, who scorned my
love, hath proved at last my hate. The Norman wrestling, too, who
thought to crush me — I trample on his ashes. World," he added,
with a scornful laugh, " we shall soon be quits. My debt is
lessening."

The next day the rumour of the accidental destruction of Cranfield,
and the death of Edith and Bishop Herbert, spread far and near.
The good mourned their loss, and the evil triumphed in their
fall.

The next morning Ernulf , the worthy squire of such a master as
Herman, doffed his hauberk and helmet for the sober, peaceful dress
of one of the lower order of franklins, and directed his steps
towards the cathedral, where he was sure at all times to find the
monks ready to receive their penitents, or to perform the varied
ministry of their office.

Disguising his perfect knowledge of the Norman tongue, he
demanded of one of the brotherhood to point out to him a confessional
filled by some Saxon priest, and was, as he expected, directed to the
one usually occupied by Father Oswald.

It was situated in one of those quiet, gloomy chapels at the back
of the high altar, which the vandalism of the modern clergy has long
since consigned to neglect ; the light faintly penetrated through the
richly-stained glass, softening, with its mellow tone, the harsh
outlines of ^e sculptured saint, to whom its shrine was dedicated.
The aged priest was in the act of shriving a penitent when the
disguised murderer approached.

Despite his attire, and the hypocritical meekness of his look,
Oswald recognised him, and instantly comprehended his purpose ;
but his courage did not fail him, or the danger which he ran cause
his heart to beat with increased emotion. Sternly, seated on his
chair, he seemed like the impersonation of one of those fabled deities
worshipped of old, his conscious power marked by his impassibility.
Before he dismissed his kneeling penitent, he took from an ebony
and silver box which hung beside him a small phial, which he
placed under his sandalled foot, so that he could crush it by the
slightest pressure, and placed a morsel of some highly-perfumed drug
within his mouth.

As soon as they were left alone within the chapel — Ernulf and the
priest — the former advanced towards the confessional, his eyes bent
in seeming humility to the ground, but in reality to hide the ferocious
joy which the anticipation of blood gave to their expression. His
knee was sacrilegiously bent to the earth even at the moment his
hand secretly' grasped the weapon concealed beneath his flowing
cloak.

What brings the parricide and sacrilegious robber t© the tribunal
of penitence ? " demanded Oswald, his aged eyes flashing with holy
indignation on the prostrate man. " Is it to commit some new
crime .^ Is not his soul stained with blood enough already ? "

Had a thunderbolt fallen at the feet of the detected Ernulf , he
could not have been more surprised. The being whom he came to
strike seemed armed with omniscience to confound him. The secret
terror of his life, the sin which haunted him, his nightly dream —
his daily curse — rose, as it were, in evidence against him. His
craven heart beat wildly at the words.

Parricide ! " he murmured, faintly.

"Aye, how else," demanded Oswald, "name ye those who shed
a parent's blood "i Have so many years elapsed that thou hast forgot
the deed — so many tears of penitence been shed, it has effaced the
stain ? Fool ! " he added, 1' should thy life be long and wearisome
as mine, and every minute of it be a prayer or tear, it would not
cleanse thy hand. A father's blood is on it — his dying malediction
on thy soul ! "

Ernulf, overwhelmed with confusion, could only faintly explain —

Mercy ! mercy ! "

Mercy ! " iterated the priest ; " where was thy mercy when he
clung to thee, with his white hair dyed in gore, and his dying eyes,
in mingled love and horror, fixed upon thee 1 Mercy ! Ask it of
the fiends," he continued, " who registered thy crime ; ask it of thy
father's bones, which, at the archangel's trumpet's sound, shall rise
up in judgment against thee — ask it of the innocent blood which
thou hast shed, the purity which thou hast violated, the homes which
thou hast rendered desolate, but ask it not of me. Minister of
justice, as well as mercy, I close the book of life against thee, and
pronounce anathema to thy despairing soul."

The voice of the old man was firm as the denunciating angel's
curse when it swept over the Cities of the Plain. The appalled Ernulf,
confronted with his crime, knew not which way to flee — terror took
possession of his heart — hell seemed yawning beneath him — and the
strong ruffian rolled in agony at his accuser's feet.

"And now," continued Oswald, "thou wouldst add sacrilege to
murder — for base, filthy hire profane the holy sacrament of Penance,
insult the indignant saints before their altars and strike their minister
before their shrine ! "

Art thou a devil, thus to read men's hearts ? " demanded Ernulf,
rage and shame gradually mastering his terror.

Enough, I can read thine," said Oswald. " Aye, grasp thy
weapon," he continued, as he witnessed the movement of the squire's
hand beneath his cloak. " I fear it not. Thou art delivered to me
the worm beneath my foot is not more hurtless than thy toothless
malice."

Indeed ! " exclaimed Ernulf, casting a deep glance around, to



pee if he was observed, and springing to his feet, " if thou art mortal,
this will reach thee."

He drew the concealed weapon from his cloak, and raised his
impious hand to strike ; but ere it could descend, the sandalled foot
of the monk had crushed the phial beneath it, and the confessional
was instantaneously filled by a thin, subtle vapour, whose effects
were electrical. The weapon of the assassin fell, as if struck by
lightning, to the ground, while he himself stood nerveless as a newborn
infant before his judge and his accuser.

This is the completion of thy crimes," said Oswald, after a pause ;
thy dark career is run."

A party of monks, summoned by his voice, soon filled the chapel ;
to them he recounted the attempt upon his life, and pointed to the
criminal, whose person was instantly secured, for he made no
resistance — his mind, like his body, seemed to have been stricken by
palsy, so extraordinary was the effect produced upon him by the
means through which the priest had disarmed him — means
perfectly comprehended by the scientific of the present day, but
whi-ch to Ei'nulf's superstitious mind seemed like the direct
interposition of Providence.

CHAPTER V.

In consideration of the nobility of Ulrick's birth, the confession
of which was so strangely wrung from his accuser, he was not
retained in the common dungeons of the castle — a series of
subterranean cells which extended far below the level of the moat
but in the loftiest apartment of Bigod's tower, the extreme height
of which rendered all escape by external means impossible. The
interior was equally well guarded ; for the only staircase which
conducted to it was situated in the guard chamber, through which
all who either ascended or descended were obliged to pass, and
where a faithful troop of men-at-arms, who had grown grey in the
service of the murdered earl, kept constant watch.

The high courage and sense of innocence which had sustained our
Piero in the presence of Herman and the assembled nobles gave way
?^s the last ponderous bolt was drawn upon him by his retiring
gaolers. The sound fell upon his ear like earth cast upon a cofiBn,
v-nA mentally he saw written over his prison door the tremendous
inscription which Dante read upon the gates of Hell :

Fascinate Esperanza."

"Where," he exclaimed, "are now the joyous visions of my
youth, my thirst of honour — of a life of usefulness, of trustful

F 2

confidence, and hopeful love ? Fled for ever. I have dreamt the
dream Which idiots dream, but, waking, found my reason. Fool ! "
he added bitterly, " even for one moment to suppose this world
contained aught of love or happiness for thee ! "

In this gloomy mood he continued to pace the floor of his prison,
his heart at times cheered by the knowledge of his innocence, and
the assurance that his birth was noble. Father Oswald, it was plain,
possessed some key to the mystery of his fate ; and like a chained lion,
Ulrick fretted his soul against the bars of his dungeon. How often did
he pray but for one hour of freedom to rend the veil which obscured
his destiny, and which he never felt so palpably before ! At times
fancy would represent him as the victor in the coming fight, his
honour cleared, his innocence established ; or seated in some old
ancestral hall, Matilda by his side, and offspring vv^ho resembled her
around him ; — then for a moment he forgot his fate, the fearful
accusation which hung over him, and felt a taste of joy.

The walls of Ulrick's prison were formed of huge blocks of stone,
which rose to the height of about twelve feet, where they joined the
rude groining of the arch, the key-stone of which was the quaintly
sculptured head of some Saxon king, whose staring eyes, like those
of the evil genius of the place, seemed to mock the prisoner ; the
window, narrow and strongly barred, was situated in a deep recess
cut in the wall, the massive thickness of which might have withstood
even the artillery of the present day. In a corresponding recess in
the opposite side of the room was a singular piece of sculpture
representing a crucifixion, in which the victim was a boy about
twelve years of age. According to a tradition well known in Norwich,
a Christian youth had been crucified by the Jews on Good Friday,
in mockery of the Saviour. On the miraculous discovery of his
body, he was canonised, and his name still appears in the Roman
calendar under the name of St. William in the Wood. Similar
memorials of the legend were once extremely common in the
neighbourhood, and may still be found in some of the old churches
and conventual remains, not only in Norfolk, but its adjoining
counties.

The prisoner's reflections were interrupted by the entrance of
Odo's squire, who, followed by the ordinary keepers of the tower,
brought Ulrick his repast, the first he had tasted for f one-and-twenty
hours. To all his eager questions and entreaties they maintained a
dogged silence ; each one felt that he was a spy on the other ; and
prudence, if not fidelity, fettered their tongue.

Exhausted as the captive was, he merely broke a morsel of bread,
and took a draught of the flask of wine which they had left him,
and then resumed his Avalk, again to indulge in the reveries of his
excited imagination ; in dreams of hope, perhaps never to be
realised ; or in visions of despair, yet more gloomy than his destiny.
For more than an hour he had continued to pace his prison floor ;

his brow gradually becoming more and more flushed, and the fire of
fever burning in his cheek and haggard eye. He could no longer
conceal from himself that he was ill, perhaps dying ; the recollection
of the wine which he had drunk flashed upon him, and fearfully
explained the mystery.

I am poisoned ! " he exclaimed. "Oh, cruel treachery ! My
name will descend polluted to the grave ! Matilda's curse, perchance,
will rest upon it. I'll not die, like the wolf, inglorious in his lair
without one effort. Help ! " he shrieked, at the same time beating
with his hands and feet frantically against the door ; " treachery !
murder ! "

Long did the wretched Ulrick continue to awake the echoes of his
prison-tower. It was evident that he was doomed to die alone,
poisoned — treacherously and cowardly poisoned, by the man who
feared to meet his victim in honourable fight.

I'll strive no more," sighed the exhausted youth, " with a destiny
so wretched — lost, as mine ; but, since my hour is come, will meet
it like a Christian and a man ; and with a sigh to my love, but
without one regret for earth, resign my soul to the keeping of the
saints."

Unable longer to retain his feet, Ulrick threw himself upon his
rude couch ; and although his mind would wander in his prayer, yet
still he prayed, until his senses were absorbed in sleep — a sleep his
enemy had doomed to be eternal.

The prisoner had not long been lost to consciousness, when the
rude stone, representing the martyrdom of St. William, slowly
rolled aside, discovering a niche, through which Father Oswald
entered the dungeon. Cautiously he approached the couch, and
placed his hand upon the bosom of the expiring youth.

As I suspected," he murmured. " Poisoned ! poisoned ! Fiend,
I will defeat thee yet ! He took from his bosom a flask, which
contained some highly balsamic liquid, the exquisite perfume of
which filled the prison, and applied it to the sleeper's lips, and as
the contents slowly disappeared, breathed many a prayer, made
many a holy sign, for Ulrick's safety. Its effects Avere gradual, but
most satisfactory. The burning fever of the prisoner gradually
yielded to a soft genial perspiration ; his close-set teeth unclenched
themselves, and he breathed freely.

Saved ! " exclaimed the priest, who had stood watching him
with breathless anxiety ; " two trials more, and thou art safe. In
thine hour of need, boy, I will not fail thee."

Before he left the prison, the venerable priest emptied the rest of
the poisoned wine, and refilled it from a basket which he had brought ;
and kneeling by the rude couch, offered up to Him who guards the

fatherless a heartfelt prayer for Ulrick's safety.

*****

The great bell of the cathedral tolled the midnight hour as the

body of the murdered earl, the second evening after his death, was
borne by the officers of his household towards its final resting place,
within the hallowed precincts. A party of men-at-arms, every fourth
bearing a lighted torch, lined the centre aisle from the west entrance
to the high altar, where the black-robed priests were ready to
commence the Mass of the Dead. The choir of the magnificent
church was hung with solemn draperies, and the highly emblazoned
escutcheons of the deceased noble, whose military achievements had
endeared him to his soldiers as much as his statesmanlike qualities,
princely hospitality, and unblemished honour, had rendered him
popular with his brother nobles. The richly carved stalls were filled
by the monks ; every dignitary of the order was in his place except
the illustrious bishop, over whose episcopal throne a purple veil was
thrown — typical of the widowhood of the church, from which many
believed him violently removed.

As soon as the coffin was placed upon the dais in the centre of the
choir, the low, solemn chanting of the priests began ; and many a
prayer was breathed by his brother knights, Who, clad in steel, were
standing round, for the repose of Hugh de Bigod's soul. Mirvan,
as the representative of his house, was seated at the head of the bier
his brain almost stunned at the double blow it had received by
the murder of his father and the supposed treachery of his friend.
Matilda and Isabel watched and prayed in one of the dimly-lighted
galleries above.

Herman, the murderer and the accuser, was there, as calm as
though his life had been one of innocence, his hand free from blood.
Once or twice he looked anxiously amongst the monks, to see if he
could recognise the cowled visage of Father Oswald. It was a
relief to his heart that he beheld it not. Doubtless he thought that
Ernulf had succeeded in his sacrilegious attempt, and smiled at the
triumph of his villainy.

Herbert de Lozenga and the old priest removed, the accusation of
sorcery, the only danger which had given him any real uneasiness,
fell to the ground, and he stood, as he thought, impenetrable in his
crime. His approaching battle with Ulrick he looked forward to
with pleasure rather than distrust as the consummation of his
triumph ; indeed, he could not doubt the result, for he had secretly
contrived that a poison should be administered in his victim's food
poison of so subtle a nature, that while it spared the life of the
receiver, it deprived him of all strength and energy, by the slow,
undermining fever which it engendered, and Which must have
ins-ed his success in the contest, but for the watchful energy of
Father Oswald.

The conspiracy of the Saxon nobles, of which he was the life and
energy, was undertaken hinder circumstances so peculiarly favourable,
that its failure seemed impossible. William the Conqueror had
withdrawn the flower of his army to France, to continue the war

which he had undertaken against its monarch, and during which he
eventually terminated his career. The Normans Who remained in
England were in many instances divided amongst themselves. The
death of High de Bigod, the most energetic of their leaders, and
William's marshal in England during his absence, still further
augmented the Saxons' chances of success. The day of battle was
the one fixed for the explosion ; and Herman, in the anticipated
triumph of his views, tasted as much of happiness as guilt like his
could know.

The solemn chant of the monks had ceased, and the priests at the
altar were about to commence the Mass, when the prior, who
presided in the absence of the bishop, arose in his stall, and, in a
cold, stern voice, commanded Herman of the Burg to quit the
church, adding, that the sacred mysteries could not be celebrated in
the presence of a man accused of sorcery.

Sorcery ! " exclaimed Herman, red with passion, — " and where
are my accusers ? — where the guilty prelate who, to shield his
unworthy favourite, contrived the accusation ? — where the mad
monk who witnessed to it ? A fearful death," he added, " has
removed the former — the judgment of Heaven has fallen on the
false judge and the accuser."

The prior was a man cold and passionless as the altar which he
served ; yet even his quiet nature was indignant at the aspersion
cast upon the memory of Herbert de Lozenga, whose supposed death
he had many reasons for knowing had been contrived by his
unblushing accuser. The impious blasphemy of attributing his
own crimes to the judgment of Heaven shocked him, and increased
the ill opinion he already entertained against the Saxon.

Norman nobles ! " replied the prior, " through you alone I
answer the slanders of that bold, bad man. Whether the venerable
bishop be living or dead, Herman is accused of sorcery. The accuser
and the accused may die — the accusation, never. Either Herman
of the Burg must quit the church, or I suspend the rites ; decide
between ye."

At the close of the speaker's voice, the officiating priests descended
the steps of the altar, and began to remove the vestments peculiar to
the service, and the monks stood up in their stalls, ready at the first
signal to depart.

The frowns which he sav gathering on the brows of the Norman
nobles told Herman that it would be dangerous to remain : he made
a virtue, therefore, of necessity ; and, after bending his knee to the
high altar, left the church with an air as much like that of indignant
virtue as he could assume. Seeing that their enemy had lied, the
priests recommenced the interrupted rites.

For a long time Herman paced the cloister, indulging in dreams
of promised vengeance. Let but the insurrection triumph, and he
would waste their church and convent both with fire and sword—

drive every Norman priest from out the realm. "Better," he
exclaimed, "our father's ancient faith, than this enslaving, this
aspiring priesthood ! " The Norman nobles, whose haughty coldness
stung his pride — they, too, must feel his wrath ; in his mad thirst
for vengeance, he contemplated taking even the lives of those with
whom he lived on terms of intimacy and friendship — whose cup he
often drained — whose pleasures he shared ; contemplated it not with
the regret of a man who offers a necessary sacrifice on the altar of
freedom, but with the delight of a being whose instinct was of
blood.

During his walk, his attention was attracted by the rays of a
strong light which pierced through the crevices of the chapter-house
doors. Finding them not to be locked, he entered, and saw
preparations for a scene which gave him food for reflection. The
richly ornamented building was evidently arranged, not merely for
an assembly of the chapter, but the trial of a prisoner. The bishop's
throne was hung with black, as if he were in person about to preside.
Upon the table, in the centre of the room, upon a cushion, lay an
enormous crucifix, and writing materials were placed at either side
for the examiners. But what most attracted his attention were the
various instruments of torture scattered on the floor — instruments,
in that barbarous age, too often used to extort confession from
innocence as well as guilt.

Whose trial," he murmured, " can the monks be about to
proceed with ? Can Ernulf have failed in his design ? Hath the fool
been caught in his own snare ? The confident tone of yon shaveling
in the church has staggered me. The accuser and the accused," he
added, slowly repeating the words of the prior to himself, " may die
the accusation, never."

Never ! " repeated a deep, solemn voice, so near to him that the
word seemed to have been whispered in his very ear. He started
and looked around, but saw no one — it was evident that he was
alone. Although he attributed the sound to natural causes, it made
an impression on him.

This is childish ! " he exclaimed ; " I grow, indeed, infirm of
heart, if a mere echo can unman it. No matter," he added, drawing
a long breath to relieve himself as he spoke, " let but the next tv/o
days securely pass, and. Fortune, I defy thee ! "

Still, however, the preparation for the midnight trial alarmed
him, and as Herman was one who left nothing to chance, he
advanced to the door by which he entered, intending to quit the
chapter-house, and simon an esquire in whom he could confide,
to conceal himself behind one of the colossal statues of the Four
Evangelists placed in the arched recesses of the walls. To his confusion,
hovv^ever, the door was locked, whether by accident or design he
could not tell, but conscience made him fear the former, and he was
a prisoner. In vain he thundered at the massive doors ; the sound

n

of this blows echoed through the cloisters, and gradually faded away,
leaving him in fearful silence to commune with himself.

It must be accident," he thought ; " they would not dare to
plot an outrage upon my person." This opinion was the more
confirmed as he had not heard the slightest sound of a footstep near
the door ; indeed, it was not impossible that the wind had done it,
for the portal fastened with a spring ; and he resolved, since accident
had made him a prisoner, to avail himself of his position to ascertain
trie tactics of his enemies. "With this view he concealed himself
behind the statue of St. John, patiently to await the commencement
of the trial.

Meanwhile, a far different scene was passing in the church. As
soon as the Mass was ended, Mirvan advanced to the bier and, after
kneeling reverently to the dead, respectfully removed from it his
father's sword, and pressed it to his lips. Every eye in the vast
choir was upon him.

Bear witness for me, my noble countrymen," he cried, " that I
receive it unstained by injustice or by treason ; and that he, v,iio so
late was of the first among you, has descended to the grave with
honour as bright as his OT\'n shield."

He has ! " replied the Normans with one voice ; so universal was
their respect for the late earl's memory,

Amen ! " ejaculated the prior from his distant stall ; " peace to
Hugh de Bigod's soul."

As the heir of his name," continued Mirvan, " I am the natural
avenger of his blood ; I am told the assassin claims the right of
battle — is it so ? "

It is ! " again answered the nobles.

Then," resumed the speaker, " I claim the right to meet him.
I might resign to another the judgment-seat, but not the danger of
the listed field. I demand it," he added, laying his hand upon the
coffin, " in the name of the dead, by my right of birth, by our
brotherhood in knighthood, and the justice of my cause. Speak — is
my claim allowed ? "

A low murmur of satisfaction rose amongst the nobles, who had
beheld, with secret dissatisfaction, Herman of the Burg, a man
whom they despised, elevated to the position of Hugh de Bigod's
avenger. It shocked then* prejudice and pride that a Saxon lance
should vindicate a Norman cause. The young earl's demand,
therefore, was most favourably received ; still they decided with
that gravity of deliberation with which the nobles of the epoch
treated all questions of chivalry, and after a lengthened consultation
between themselves, Odo of Caen announced the decision of his
brother peers.

Your claim, brave earl, is allowed : here, in the presence of the
noble dead, whom all so truly mourn — here, on om' faith as true
knights, we declare that Herman of the Biu'g may, without dishonour,

forego the fight on your claiming to be the champion in your house's
cause. The seneschal," he added, " shall make known to the prisoner
our decree, and God defend the right ! "

Amen," again responded the prior, in which this time all the
ecclesiastics joined.

A faint scream was heard in the gallery above, and Matilda was
seen borne insensible in the arms of her attendants from the church,
followed by the grieving and compassionate Isabel. Mirvan beheld
their departure with a deep-drawn sigh ; for already he read the
secret of his sister's heart, and loved her too well not to compassionate
its weakness and its sorrows.

The holy water was sprinkled on the descending coffin, the priestly
blessing given, and the herald's pompous duty done. As the remains
of the once powerful earl, Hugh de Bigod, descended to their final
resting place, one by one the priests and nobles slowly retired,
leaving Mirvan alone within the church, praying by the side of the
dead.

As the vassals of the different chiefs drew up under their respective
leaders, and were preparing to return in procession to the castle,
their departure was delayed by the arrival of George of Erpingham,
the bishop's seneschal, who, at the head of a body of troops, entered
the inclosed precincts of the cathedral, and placed a guard at the
only gate by which egress was possible. Whatever were the good
knight's intentions, resistance was in vain, the force he commanded
being sufficient to crush the slightest attempts at opposition.

What means this, George of Erpingham ? " demanded Odo, who
from his rank and influence was generally the interpreter of the
sentiments of his peers. " Do we meet as enemies ? "

Heaven forbid ! " replied the jovial knight. " I am here to do
the Church's errand, not to break lance with such worthy sons as
you. If the Adolf hides itself amidst the flock, the flock must not
murmur at being detained until the wolf be found."

As he spoke, an officer of the church approached and whispered
something into his ear.

Pardon me, gentle knights," he resumed ; " but the wolf is
found, and further precautions are unnecessary."

With a wave of his hand he motioned to the guard at the gate to
fall back, and give egress to the nobles and their followers, who
resumed their march, wondering what circumstance could have
caused so unusual a proceeding.

As the elder nobles passed the gate, the same officer who had
whispered to George of Erpingham placed in their hands a paper,
on reading which they resigned the conduct of their men to their
esquires, and retired, with thoughtful steps, into the cathedral. It
was evident that some strange event either had occurred, or was
about to take place, and the curiosity of those who were summoned
was unbounded. But their patience was doomed to be exercised, as

well as that of our readers, while we return to the fair cousins whoso
lately quitted the church.

Speak not of consolation," replied Matilda to the tender soothing
of Isabel, as soon as they reached the castle, and were retired to the
privacy of their own apartment ; " grief succeeds to grief, and each
fresh hour brings but fresh sorrow with it. I feel so assured of
Ulrick's innocence, that I could pin my life upon his faith. But
how to prove it ? To-morrow he meets my brother in the listed
field ; and either I must mourn that brother lost, or weep the truest
heart that crime and calumny e'er sacrificed at the base shrine of
jealous, mean revenge."

Don't weep, don't weep," sobbed the affectionate hearer, the
tears at the same time coursing down her own pale cheeks ;
Heaven and our Lady to our aid ! We are not hopeless ; the fight
may be prevented yet. Had Herman been the champion, I would
not have given one little sigh to have prevented the meeting in the
lists. You are convinced, you say, of Ulrick's innocence ? "

A reproachful glance at the doubt which the question seemed to
imply was Matilda's only response.

Be not angry, pretty coz," continued the fair girl ; " remember
I am not in love with him ; and I know that when the heart pleads,
the judgment is sometimes silent. Besides, this is not the moment
for a shadow of coldness or unkindness to pass between us. Could
we but see Ulrick, perhaps we might obtain some clue to this most
fearful mystery ; for, like you, I would fain believe him guiltless ;
though, unlike you, I sometimes mistrust my heart — it leads my
head astray."

Obtain but that, and fear not that he is saved ! " exclaimed
Matilda. " Trust me, Isabel," she added, blushing at the warmth
she had betrayed, " 'tis not the raving of a senseless love that speaks,
but the conviction of my better reason. Men do not fall as the
archangel fell ; from purity to the extreme of sin a gradual change
succeeds. Ulrick's mind was honour's self ; a mirror so highly
polished, that Truth might view her image, I have watched its
every phase, and found each thought was pure. And he, the good,
the gentle, murder an aged — a defenceless man ! murder my father !
Impossible ! If an angel, trumpet-tongued, pronounced him guilty,
Matilda never could believe it."

Could Ulrick, from the depth of his prison, have heard the
maiden's eloquent defence, he Avould have deemed his sorrows
overpaid. Firmly she met the searching look of Isabel, as every
page of feeling was displayed to invite the reader's gaze. The warmhearted
girl threw her arms around her cousin, and exclaimed :

I do believe thee ! I read it in thy dark eyes' deep intelligence
those portals of thy soul — when thy pure spirit looks upon the
world, and scorns its worthlessness. You love him, coz ?•" she
added.

Truth needs no subterfuge : I do," simply answered Matilda.

Then he must be saved. Rouse thee, coz — we have a game to
play will need our woman's wits. Odo of Caen, you know, is
plighted to my sister Jane ; I have some interest with him ; we
loth must try him — use all the artillery of sighs and tears — the
weapons with which mother Nature arms our sex when we contend
'gainst proud, imperious man. Doubt not but we will bend
him to our will. Kneel," added Isabel, "and ask His blessing
on our enterprise who reads our purpose, and who knows 'tis good."

The two fair and innocent creatures, like twin seraphs, bent the
knee, and offered up a prayer as pure as ever fell from angel lips
for suffering innocence. The act poured the balm of both courage
and consolation into their souls. Silently enveloping themselves in
their dark mourning mantles and veils, they left their chamber to
seek the knight whose word alone could gain them admittance to

Ulrick's presence.

* * * *

Long and anxiously did Herman remain concealed behind the
statue of the saint in the chapter-house of the cathedral ; at times,
he thought of renewing his frantic efforts for freedom, but prudence,
and the desire of witnessing proceedings in which in all probability
he would find himself deeply interested, restrained him. At last,
the distant steps of the approaching brethren fell upon his ear, and
despite his long habitude in crime, and the confidence! which success
bestows, his heart beat wildly as they drew near.

•' They come," he whispered to himself ; " courage, patience, and
I triumph ! "

From the position in which he was placed he could see all that
passed, but ran little risk himself of being seen, as nothing could be
more unlikely than that any one would take the trouble to mount
the niche in which he was concealed.

First in the processions were two priests, bearing the abbatial and
episcopal cross ; then the members of the chapter, two and two — the
latter, as they entered, bowed to the crucifix, and took their seats in
their respective stalls ; the prior followed, bearing his staff of office,
and assumed his seat at the head of the table.

I see no pi-prisoner yet," thought Herman ; " perhaps, after all, it
is but some brother of their order whom they have met to judge for
breach of discipline. No matter ; I will see this mummery out."

His doubts, however, were soon ended by the entrance of several
of the Norman nobles in deep conference with Herbert de Lozenga,
who, in his episcopal robes, the mitre blazing on his brow, and the
crosier in his hand, appeared living before him ; from that moment
Herman felt that he was lost.

Living ! " he exclaimed, almost loud enough to be heard.
Have, then, the mouldering ashes of Cranfield given up their dead,
or have the fiends, who so long have served, at last deserted me .? "

Brothers and nobles," said the bishop, as soon as he was seated
upon his chair of state, " believe me that no matter of slight interest
has induced me to summon you to this our sacred chapter. Danger
threatens not only to your lives, but to the Norman rule throughout
the realm. A vast conspiracy is organised to root us from the land.
Scarce two days and the Saxons rise upon us. The day of battle is
the day appointed for the massacre of all our race. Prudence and
firmness may avert the blow which want of unity must render fatal.
This is no childish menace, no partial outbreak," he added ; " but
the organised effort of a people's strength."

There was a pause as the prelate ceased speaking ; men looked
upon each other as men look who have received strange news ; and
Herman, in the gall and bitterness of his heart, cursed the lips which
uttered it. Odo of Caen was the first to speak among his fellow-nobles.


Father, this is intelligence to stir the blood within us, and worth
even the risk your sacred person ran. Deign to explain the proofs
on which it rests ; that, knowing whence the danger comes, we may
prepare to meet it. Who is the leader of this enterprise ? "

Herman of the Burg," solemnly answered the bishop, at the
same time striking the ground with his crosier.

Curse him," muttered the concealed listener ; " Ernulf has
betrayed me."

At the signal which the bishop gave, the doors of the chapter-house
again opened, and the guilty squire Ernulf was led into the as-semble
by a party of the bishop's guard. Father Oswald followed him.
The prisoner's face was flushed, although his limbs seemed feeble ;
even the presence of the Norman nobles was a relief to him ; he
knew that they were the inmates of the castle — friends of his
master's kinsman — and trusted they might befriend him. The hope,
however, was but a brief one ; his eye glanced from their stern
visages, and fell upon the instruments of torture lying on the
ground ; a cold perspiration bedewed his frame, and the strong man
trembled.

Ernulf," began the bishop. Struck by the voice, the wretched
man looked up, and recognised in his judge the being whom,
f our-and-twenty hours before, he had, as he imagined, consigned to
inevitable death. Father Oswald's mysterious knowledge of his
crimes, and, to him, miraculous means of subduing him, had excited
the latent superstition in his nature ; he looked upon Herbert as
one arisen from the dead, and armed with supernatural terrors to
confound him. " "Well may'st thou tremble, guilty man, to find me
living," resumed the prelate, who marked the effect his appearance
had produced, and trusted that it would enable him to bend the
stubborn nature of the criminal to confession, without having
recourse to those means which the rude justice of the age not only
tolerated, but approved : " hast thou not heard that it is written,

the triumph of the wicked shall be short ' ? Confess thy vile
conspiracy, thy master's treason, and enable me and these noble
knights to unravel the dark clue of guilt, and mercy, perchance,
may be extended to thy forfeited life."

A dead silence followed the speaker's words — all waited to see
their effect upon the hardy criminal, who, on discovering that the
bishop was really in flesh and life before him, recovered the usual
audacity of his nature, and determined in the recesses of his iron
mind to endure the extreme of torture rather than betray the scheme
on which not only his hopes of aggrandisement, but ultimate safety,
depended. He remained therefore sullenly silent.

Saxon dog," exclaimed Odo, " dost thou not answer to thy
judges ? "

What should I answer, noble Odo ? " replied Ernulf. " "Will
the word of a simple esquire weigh against the assertion of a mitred
prelate ? What should I know of conspiracies, which I believe
exist but in the imagination of my accuser, to save his favourite's
life ? He hath already charged my noble master with the crime of
sorcery ; finding that insufficient, he now adds the charge of treason
to complete his ruin."

The firm tone of the speaker shook the faith of several of his
listeners, who were not disinclined to believe that Herbert would
have recourse to any measures to assure Ulrick's safety. Herman
silently congratulated himself upon the dogged fidelity of his
accomplice.

Have you no other proof than mere assertion, my lord ? "
demanded Robert of Artois, whose influence Herbert de Lozenga
had frequently opposed in the council, and consequently excited
his hate. " If not, I, for one, would not hang a dog on such a
charge."

Nor I," exclaimed another, " provided it were Norman. But
this is a Saxon cur, and we cannot refuse to put the question, should
my lord bishop in his Christian charity demand it."

The sneer with which this was uttered did not deter the prelate
from his purpose. 'Tis true he had obtained other and ample
information, but from a source he wished at present to conceal.
Though mild and gentle in his character, he could assume the tone
of stern reproof, and meet the boldest with a front as lofty, a speech
as cutting, as their own.

'Tis well, sir knight," he answered, " you have a churchman to
contend with ; but remember, if I draw no sword, that thousands
are ready to achieve my bidding. That if as a priest I pronounce
no se atence by which man's blood is shed, that many a belted earl
and landed knight are bound by feudal tenure to pronounce it forme.
Robert of Artois," he added, " and you, noble peers, no more
I sue for your support — I now command it. Apply the question
to yon wretched man, unless by confession he avoids the ordeal."

Slowly the nobles present proceeded to give the necessary directions,
the Catholic church not permitting any member of its orders in any
case to pronounce sentence of death, or to shed human blood. Even
in the Inquisition this rule to the last Alas invariably observed. Its
familiars were all laymen, and those who Avere condemned were
given over to the secular power, by whom alone they could be
sentenced.

As the executioners now approached the unhappy criminal. Father
Oswald drew his cowl still further over his features. Devoutly did
Herman, who, from his place of concealment, watched the proceedings,
pray that his esquire might expire under the tortures to which he
was about to be submitted. Dead men he knew could tell no tales,
and willingly would he have cut the thread of life of a being, one
of whose greatest crimes was perhaps fidelity to himself ; as it was,
he awaited the result with nervous impatience.

Ernulf, having been stripped of his jerkin, was first placed by his
tormentors upon a frame of iron, and bound by leather thongs ; by
a peculiar mechanism, the machine was gradually distended till
every joint cracked in its socket, and the strained sinews throbbed
with agony ; still the culprit spoke not, but with scowling brow and
firm-clenched teeth gazed, like a maimed wolf, on the circle round
him. Suddenly, the bands were let go, the frame returned to its
natural size, and the distended joints shot in their sockets ; then the
first groan issued from Ernulf's breast. Father Oswald trembled,
and slowly pronounced the word " Confess ! "

What should I confess ? " replied the hardened man ; " I know
nothing, and can reveal nothing."

Again the tormentors approached their victim. Placing him upon
his knees, they gathered up his long hair, and plaited into it the end
of a cord which hung suspended from one of the beams. As soon
as all was prepared, on a signal from Odo they elevated him so that
he hung suspended by the hair of his head. For two minutes did
he endure the fearful torture, his temples throbbing in agony, his
eye-balls bursting from his head. Still he made no sign — uttered
no word of confession. The prelate, unable longer to witness his
sufferings, made sign they should release him.

By the laws of the question, three distinct species of torture were
to be employed. If at the end of the third the prisoner's courage
held out, he was deemed innocent, and consequently quitted. As
may be supposed, the last ordeal Alas the most fearful, and Herbert
Avould Willingly have spared it ; but Odo, Who trusted that the squire's
courage Avould hold out, or Who believed that he had nothing to
confess, opposed himself strongly to it.

"We are not children, my good lord," he said; "our justice
cannot be trifled with. If the prisoner pass the third question, I
shall believe he hath been most foully Wronged, and disbelieve
this strange conspiracy ; so please you, let the executioners proceed."

Be it so," replied Herbert, " since there is no other way ; and
he the crirae on him whose obstinacy has left no other course."

Silently did Herman pray that Ernnlf 's courage might hold out,
or nature yield beneath the effort. Again the fearful ministers of
justice secured the wretched man, and inclosed his legs in a species
of iron case compressible by screws. Ernulf groaned with agony.
Still no Y/ord of confession passed his lips. The screws were about
to be turned to their last extent, when Father Oswald, who stood
before the prisoner, suddenly dashed back his cowl, fixed his eyes
upon him, and at the same time drew back his long white hair, which
hid a crimson scar upon his forehead.

Parricide ! " he exclaimed, " can nothing move thee ? Confessor
perish in thy impious pride."

The sudden change which took place in Erniilf's features was
terrific. The blood which forsook his cheeks rushed into his eyes,
his jaw dropped, and he seemed stricken with a paralysis of horror.

Spare me ! " he exclaimed ; *' spare me, avenging spirit, and I
will confess — all — all ! Search in the lining of my breast-piece.
The letters — pardon ! Mercy ! mercy I " exhausted with his
sufferings, both of mind and body, he found temporary relief in
insensibility.

Bear him to prison," exclaimed the bishop, " and let his breast-piece
be placed upon the table here before us."

The mangled wi-etch was instantly conveyed from the chapterhouse,
and the assembly relieved of the presence of the executioners.

As Herbert de Lozenga demanded, the breast-piece was placed
upon the table and examined by the nobles present. Between the
lining and the fold they found two papers ; the first contained a
detailed account of the plot, the names of the franklins and Saxon
leaders most compromised, their places of meeting, and number of
men-at-arms. As the bishop asserted, the day of battle was fixed
for the outbreak, when, under pretence of witnessing the combat,
they could assemble unsuspected. In the list of the Norman nobles
whose lives were to be sacrificed, were the names of most present :
the paper was in the hand-writing of Herman of the Burg, and
attested by his seal.

Traitor ! " exclaimed Odo ; " much as I despised him, I little
expected this."

Nor I," added Robert of Artois, idiom a sense of their common
danger for once rendered just.

But what are v/e to do ? " demanded the nobles with one voice,

Leave that to me," replied the bishop. " Do you, as peers and
knights, pronounce the traitor's doom ; I'll find the means to see it
executed. Think you," he added, with something like an expression
of contempt, " that if, like yours, my hand might grasp the sword,
that long ere this I had not reached him ? "

Herman, secure, as he thought, in his concealment, smiled at the

churchman's threats. " Fool," he murmured, " long ere the signal
you expect shall strike, England shall be in flames. As we rush, on
in triumph through your halls, we will remember well each mocking
gibe, and strike the oppressor dead ! " and the concealed culprit
smiled in anticipation of his triumph.

While the nobles and knights were deliberating upon their
sentence, Herbert de Lozenga perused the other paper found in the
breast-piece of the squire. With a smile of benevolent satisfaction,
he whispered something to one of the attendants, who immediately
left the chapter-house.

'Tis well, my lords," he exclaimed, as Odo of Caen announced
that the nobles present found Herman guilty of high treason, and
sentenced him to death ; " our reverend prior will draw out the
sentence ready for your signing ; but while he does so, pleasure mein
one thing. Here is a paper, found, as you saw, in the breast-piece
of yon wretched man."

We did," they responded, one and all.

The time for declaring its contents hath not yet arrived,"
continued the bishop ; " please to affix your seal upon the back, that,
when produced, none may question its authenticity."

Odo, and even Robert of Artois, hastened to comply with his request,
so great was the ascendency the prelate had obtained by the discovery
of their common danger.

And now, my lord," said Odo, when the last signature was
affixed to the deed which proclaimed Herman a traitor, and condemned
him to the block, " what steps must be taken for the arrest of this
most dangerous man."

They are already taken," solemnly answered the bishop.

And when the trial ? "

It is past," continued the prelate, in the same cold,unimpa8sioned
tone.

And the execution ? "

Behold ! " exclaimed Herbert de Lozenga, striking with his
crosier, as he spoke. The doors of the chapter-house flew open, and
a guard, commanded by George of Erpingham, formed a semicircle
in the space before them. In the centre was a kneeling man ;
Father Oswald, holding a crucifix ; and the executioner with an
uplifted axe. Ere a word, even of astonishment, could escape their
lips, it fell ; and the head of Herman of the Burg rolled on the
blood-stained pavement.

Ct 2

CHAPTER YI.

The recognition between Father Oswald and his wretched son
was complete : the living and the long-thought dead met in the
fearful judgment hall, where the monk, despite the sternness of his
heart, his high resolve, and strong sense of justice, yielded to the
throes of nature, and declared himself as the only means of inducing
the wretched culprit to confess, and thereby save himself from the
last fearful ordeal of the question. It was not without a severe
struggle that he brought himself to make the revelation ; for,
although now a Christian priest, he still retained much of the pride
which had distinguished Haga the Arch-Druid. His very errors
had been those of honour, love to his nation, and devotion to the
proscribed order of which he was the chief. The mere thought that
a son of his should have descended to aught like servitude was a
bitter humiliation to his haughty soul ; but that he should have
proved mean, base, and stained with crime, stung it into madness.

Immediately after the execution of Herman the priest retired to
the solitude of his cell, and fortified his soul with prayer ; invoking
many a saint and many a holy name, to touch with penitence the
hard, bad heart of him he blushed to call his son. Gradually the
suppliant's cheek resumed its paleness, and the unnatural excitement
of his eye became subdued and calm ; Religion poured her soothing
waters in his heart ; and the fierce volcano, if not extinct, at least
for awhile slumbered in repose.

Rising from his knees, the aged man slowly crossed the cloisters,
and directed his steps towards the prison of Ernulf — a low stone
building which formerly existed on the site of the modern
deanery.

The prison in which the captive was confined vas a large square
chamber, the only entrance to which was by a narrow door, thickly
studded with nails and plates of iron, situated under a quaintly
ornamented Saxon archway ; his couch was nothing more than a
stone bench, projecting from the wall ; over it hung a crucifix,
rudely sculptured by some former inmate, to beguile the weary
hours of his captivity. So strong was the dungeon, that air and
light were admitted only by a massive grating, cemented in the
ceiling, too high for the prisoner to reach, too deeply imbedded in
the solid masonry for any external force to remove. The bruised
and maimed criminal still lay groaning on his pallet, where he had
been cast by his executioners, after the torture, when Father Oswald
entered the cell. Despite his resolution, he felt the kindlier
sentiments of his nature struggling with his justice, as he gazed
upon the being who, half-stripped of his armour, the dew of agony
upon his brow, his eyes blood-shot and wandering, lay stretched on

the hard couch before him. Nature whispered to him that it was
his son — the being whose existence had been moulded from his own,
and towards whom, despite his crimes and degenerate baseness, a
secret yearning inclined his soul to pity. Perhaps conscience whispered
him with some neglect of duty to his offspring, or demanded
whether, by precept or example, he had inculcated that high sense
of honour and love of virtue whose absence he so harshly blamed.
It was no longer, therefore, in the tone of an accusing spirit that he
addressed him, but almost in the accents of forgiveness.

Ernulf," he demanded, " dost thou recognise me ? "

The wounded man slowly turned upon his couch of pain, and
gazed upon the speaker ; all excitement had passed from his pale
features. In recognising in Father Oswald his living parent, the
spell of his authority over him was broken ; he knew that he was no
parricide ; and even his obdurate heart felt lighter from the load
removed.

I do," he coldly answered.

His interrogator started at the cool determination, the almost
indifference, evinced by the reply, and for a few moments they
regarded each other in silence, severally preparing for the mental
combat about to ensue ; a silence as sullen as the pause which
precedes the burst of the tempest, or intervenes between the thunder
and the lightning's flash. The monk was the first to break it — the
pity excited by the sufferings of the prisoner gradually yielding to
indignation at his obduracy.

Hast thou no word," he demanded, " for repentance ? — to implore
forgiveness for the crime at which the angels shudder and e'en
demons tremble ? — no prayer to appease offended Heaven and thy
father's wrath ? "

None."

None ! " iterated the priest ; " none ! Is then thy heart so seared
by crime that nothing less than the avenging bolt can penetrate it ?
Knowest thou the punishment announced for parricides— the eternal
fires, the endless gnawing of the serpent tooth of an undying conscience,
the sting of memory, and the hell of fear ? "

I am no parricide ! " doggedly retorted Ernulf, his voice
slightly showing that the denunciation of the priest had moved
him.

In thought and purpose," continued the speaker, " if not in
act. Thickest thou thy crime is less because the blow inflicted on
thy father as he slept reached short of life ? But it is just," he added,
mournfully ; " thy childhood vas impetuous, wayward, cruel ; thy
manhood stained by violence and crime ; 'tis just thy age should
proved a fitting equal to thy youth."

And whose the fault ? " demanded Ernulf, starting from the
couch, regardless in his excitement of his bruised limbs and aching
brow ; " demand it of the man who called himself my father, whose

pride revolted at a child's caress, whose want of confidence repressed
each rising impulse of my heart towards him ; whose harsh, cold,
stony, selfish nature withered my childhood, turned it on itself, to
feed on its own diseased, corrupted heart. Wonder at my crimes ?
wonder they are not a thousand times more strange than those
which madness, in her fever, paints ! Taught by no faith, accustomed
from thy lips to hear blasphemed the truths which now it seems the
Christian priest believes, but which the Druid Haga once abhorred,
where was my stay, when passion's breath assailed me ? — where the
arms to fight temptation in her Protean forms, resist her luring
spells ? No ! " he added. " If I have fallen, thou art not my
reprover ; if I have sinned, thou canst not be my judge. Man reads
the crime, but Heaven the temptation."

Each word of Ernulf fell like a drop of molten lead upon the
heart of Father Oswald. As he spoke, scale after scale fell from his
eyes ; he saw and felt that the monster before him was of his own
creation ; that the plastic clay of humanity had been trusted to his
hand, and that, in his presumption, ignorance, or selfishness, he had
moulded it into a demon's form. He found himself weak where
he had thought himself most strong ; and the conviction brought
bitterness and sorrow to his soul, silenced the fiery eloquence of his
tongue, and humiliated his vaunted reason.

'Tis true," resumed the prisoner, " my hand has been raised
against thy life ; but thou hadst first destroyed my soul. Pure it
was committed to thy hands. Ask of thy conscience how thou
didst execute the sacred trust. Unnatural father, I do reject thee
for my judge. Priest of a faith thou never haughtiest thy child,
thus I breathe back the curse." The gaunt form of the speaker was
raised to its full height ; and despite his haggard appearance, there
was something even majestic in his look, as, with his arm raised, he
was about to hurl back the paternal malediction with tenfold force
upon the head that uttered it.

Hold, wretched man ! " exclaimed Oswald, throwing himself at
his feet, his heart crushed by the convictions his words awoke
within it ; "I have sinned, and my sin hath become my punishment.
I here retract my curse. Spare my grey hairs ; let me not hear the
voice of my own son condemn me."

It was a strange sight to see the gifted Oswald prostrate at the feet
of his rude offspring. Humiliated by the voice of conscience,
subjected by the power of truth, he was no longer the same being.
His spiritual pride, the defect of his character, was completely
subdued ; for his heart had been exposed to his own view, and he
felt sick within him. Even Ernulf was affected at the sight, for he
knew well the nature he had humbled ; had trembled at it in its
strength, and he respected it in its weakness.

Not to me, father, not to me should the knee be bent," he
answered, raising the old man as he spoke ; " at least let us part

friends, exchanging mutual forgiveness. I suppose," he added, " I
have not long to live, for Holy Church seldom relinquishes her grasp
except with life, and mine is a deed admits no chance of mercy.
What is the usual punishment of sacrilege ? — But I know — death —
death, at the least."

The stake," faintly uttered the old man, scarcely conscious that
the words had passed his lips.

The stake ! " almost shrieked the prisoner ; " and you tell me
so ? The stake ! Is there no sentiment of nature, no tie of blood, to
freeze the fearful word upon your lips ? The cord, the axe — any
fate, rather than to perish at the burning stake ! "

Think rather of thy soul," interrupted his father ; " respect the
Church's judgments, as thou art a Christian."

Well thou knowest I am no Christian," replied Ernulf ; " the
waters of baptism have never been poured on my obdurate head.
'Tis true that since I left my home and mingled in the world I
passed as such — perhaps, in creed, am one — but never yet hath
priestly hand sprinkled the regenerating drops upon my brow."

Now Heaven be praised ! " exclaimed his father, a beam of
satisfaction illuminating his aged countenance ; " and thanks to every
saint ! — the sin of my neglect may be atoned — the soul I trifled with
may be redeemed."

What meanest thou .? "

That were thy sins as scarlet as the crimes of all the earth, that
baptism would wash their stain away. Let us kneel," continued
the priest, " and let us both return thanks to Heaven for mercy —
thou for a soul redeemed, e'en at destruction's brink, and I for
undying anguish and remorse removed. Prepare thy soul by
penitence and prayer," he added, " to receive the wondrous boon
which Heaven in its wisdom hath reserved. Mine shall be the hand
to perform the sacred rite which numbers thee with the redeemed
on earth. May thy after-life inscribe thy name with the redeemed
in heaven."

But the stake ? " interrupted Ernulf, listening only to his fears.
Will it secure my body from the flames — must I quit the world
amid the execration of the yelling crowd — feel the fierce fire
melting the very marrow of my bones — my brain to boil amid the
raging heat ? Is there no hope — no mercy ? Speak, father, speak."

None ! " said the old man, visibly affected by his son's despair,
whose countenance, distorted by the fearful terrors his imagination
conjured up, was but a feeble index of his mind. " Thou hast no
hope on earth."

Perchance nor Heaven ! " added Ernulf, rolling again upon his
couch in an agony of fear and horror. " 'Tis but a dream, perhaps
'tis but a dream — there is no Heaven, no mercy, or I should find
it. Fool ! to think that priests should e'er know mercy ! "

The priest began to pace the cell as if meditating some important

purpose, while Ernulf continued to exhaust himself by his ravings.
At times Oswald's eye would fall upon his son with a mingled
expression of scorn and interest — scorn at his unmanly terrors, pity
for the danger which excited them. At last, it seemed as if his
mind was resolved upon some important step, for he approached the
couch, and arrested the prisoner's wanderings with a look such as
that at which 'tis said the maniac trembles.

And could thy life be spared, how wouldst thou use it, boy ? "
solemnly demanded his father ; " speak, and let thy words be truthful
as thy danger's pressing ; for let me trace even the shade of falsehood
in thy mind, the hope but to equivocate with truth, and the chance,
the little chance that's left thee, is destroyed."

Chance ! " eagerly repeated Ernulf, catching like a drowning
wretch at the word — " there is, then, a chance ? "

Answer my question," coldly replied his father, who had little
sympathy with earthly fears, and who could, in his own person, have
regarded the stake with indifference, and even with triumph, had he
been condemned to suffer in a cause his conscience told him to be
holy — " how wouldst thou pass thy life ? "

In prayer — in fasting in some hermit's cell," he answered ; " or,
pilgrim, staff in hand, I'd seek the burning plains of Palestine, and
wet with my tears the blessed Redeemer's tomb. Let me but live,"
he added, " and the mortal terrors of the present hour will keep my
soul from every future sin. Or do you prescribe a life of penance,
well will I keep it, father."

The priest gazed upon him as if he would read his inmost soul —
sift every working of his subtle mind. Perhaps the impression was
satisfactory ; for there was again something almost of kindliness in
his parting tones.

'Tis well, my son ; dispose thyself for that which Heaven thinks
best ; for the rest, we are but potsherds in its hands. If, in the
solitude of thy dark cell, thy many crimes should preach unto thy
soul despair, let the remembrance of Heaven's unnumbered mercies
whisper hope."

The speaker quitted the cell as the last words fell from his lips,
and Ernulf sank once more upon his couch of pain, a saddened if
not a better man.

My sin at last has found me," exclaimed the monk, as he paced
the cloister on his way to the chapter-room, where he expected to
learn the sentence pronounced upon his son. " Yon wretched being
answered truly. 'Tis I, unnatural father, who have destroyed
him — reared him in scorn of Christian faith — sought to impress
him with my own dark creed, or Averse — left him in ignorance to
choose one. Shall Heaven, in its mercy, have left wide the path to
save his soul, and I do nothing for his mortal state .? No, Ernulf ! "
he added, sternly, "fallen as thou art, thou art still my sen ; stained
though thou art, thy father is not pure ; degraded as thy nature

hath become, one trace of Eden lingers round it yet. Thou shalt
not perish, if my life can save thee."

Full of this high resolve, he entered the chapter-house, where
many of the brotherhood were assembled. By all present, even by
those who loved him not, for his cold, unsocial nature, he was
received v^ith respect and sympathy, for all knew his connection
with the prisoner, and marvelled at his firmness under a trial
beneath which even manly fortitude might well succumb, and the
calm endurance of which was almost miraculous in one of his
advanced age and weakness. The sentence which declared Ernulf
guilty of sacrilege lay signed upon the table, together with the rescript
which gave him over to the secular arm, to be dealt with as
mercifully as the nature of his offence permitted, — a recommendation
of idle form, which was never permitted to interfere with the strict
execution of the law ; a law which pertained more to the spirit of
the dark age in which it was framed, than to the character of either
the Church or priesthood. With a firm hand Father Oswald read
the parchment, amid the silence of the brotherhood. To his ardent
piety it seemed both natural and just that the crime of sacrilege
should be expiated by blood : and he affixed his signature to the
document without the least apparent emotion, thereby rendering
the decision of the chapter both unanimous and valid. How he
reconciled the conviction that the life of the guilty party was
necessary to atone for his offence, with the desire to save that lifetime
will show.

When is the execution appointed to take place ?" he demanded of
the assembled monks, who stood gazing on him with admiration at
his firmness and his self-control — a species of virtue as highly
appreciated in the cloister as in the world.

"This very day," was the reply, given with an expression of
surprise. " Surely," they thought, " he never will be there ! "
And the hour ? "
Sunset."

So soon," thought their interrogator. " Then I must be brief ;
for I have still much to perform."

In his own sorrow, he resolved not to be unmindful of Ulrick's
safety. He had heard of the intention expressed by Mirvan in the
church to be himself the champion in the lists ; and well he knew
that the generous nature of the accused would submit to any
alternative — even to death itself — rather than draw his sword against
Matilda's brother and his bosom friend. He proposed, therefore, to
withdraw him from his prison through the same passage by which
he himself gained entrance to it.

# * * * i»

On the same night on which the execution of Herman of the Burg
took place, a female figure, closely veiled, attended by four men-at-arms,
left the episcopal palace on foot, and directed her steps towards

the ferry. Her disguised person and hurried step gave her more
the air of a fugitive escaped from justice, than the widow of the
powerful earl whose last obsequies were then being celebrated in
the cathedral. Edith, for it was no other, was bound upon an
expedition of no little moment, as well as danger, and her courage
rose with the occasion ; the long-suppressed emotions of maternal
love, now throbbing at her heart with hopeful energy, gave to her
mind a strength and elasticity to which it had been long a stranger,
and her decision had been prompt and clear. The men-at-arms who
attended her were four of the Norman followers of Herbert de
Lozenga, men who had not long arrived from his ancestral landmen
who spoke not a single word of Saxon tongue, and who had
never seen the countess. Their orders were to obey her will in
everything, and to protect her person with their lives. Fearful of
detection — for it was necessary that the world should still believe
her dead — she hurried her steps towards the tower, where resided
the ferryman, and where the faithful Judith was expecting her.
As she hastened on, the broken chant of the monks fell occasionally
on her ear ; still she paused not — her energies were but to save the
living ; she had no time to mourn the dead. The ferryman, to
whom on her arrival she presented a ring, bowed reverentially, for
he recognised the signet of the bishop, and handed her into the boat,
which already was in waiting, and took his place at the helm. The
four Normans seized the oars — which, to their surprise, they found
muffled — and directed their course towards Gillingham.

And whither go you, my dear lady ? " demanded Judith, in a
whisper, as soon as her mistress was seated by her side.

To Whitlingham — to the Druid caves," calmly answered Edith.
The reply struck terror to the faithful heart of her attendant. The
caves of Whitlingham bore an evil name ; for superstition had
clothed them in her shadowy terrors. Even in the day they were
avoided ; but after nightfall few men would venture to approach
them. Strange lights had oft been seen streaming through their
rugged openings ; unholy songs and yells of triumph heard. And
the idea of approaching, much more of entering, them seemed to
Judith little short of madness and presumption. Nothing but this
conviction could have induced her to offer even the approach to a
remonstrance.

To Whitlingham ! Gracious lady, did I hear you aright ? Unholy
sounds have oft been heard there, and strange visions seen ; 'tis said
the spirits of our pagan fathers nightly assemble there, to celebrate
the accursed rites of Odin and of Thor. No Christian should
approach them ; the Church rejects them ; let us not tempt their
Avrath."

I fear them not," replied the countess. " Good spirits cannot
harm us ; and Heaven will protect us against bad. But if thy
courage fails thee, Judith, tell the men to pull to land ; thou canst

regain the palace, I have no right to tax thee, girl, beyond thy
strength ; it has been tried enough already."

The idea of leaving her mistress in danger was, to the faithful
creature, more terrible than even her fears of Whitlingham.

No, no," she said ; ' I have not lived so long to eat your bread,
that I should desert you now. Be they pagans or fiends, where you
go, mistress, my steps shall follow. The unholy sight may, perchance,
appal, but it shall not drive me from you."

The sight of human passions is indeed unholy ; but beyond
that," said Edith, " thou hast naught to fear. The beings who
assemble in the caves are men — some of them noble, though
misguided ones. There may be danger to the body, but none unto
the soul."

This explanation, imperfect as it was, afforded great consolation
te Judith, who, however fearful where spiritual terrors were
concerned, possessed more perhaps than a man's contempt for earthly
danger. Born a vassal on the lands of Cranfield, in early life she
had been accustomed to traverse the woods, and more than once had
battled with the wolf. Drawing the long Saxon knife, which since
the escape from the holm, she carried concealed upon her person,
she whispered :

They must be many that would harm you, lady, while I am by.
If danger press I am prepared to strike."

Thanks ; but be cautious," replied her mistress ; " if discovered,
resistance would be worse than useless ; but I will hope the best," she
added, " for Providence favours my design. The moon is now
completely veiled, and not one single star, the gems upon night's
mantle, is twinkling in the heavens. If once, aided by Father
Oswald's instructions, we reach the cave, we are safe ; but whatever
you may see, speak not, breathe not, even though it be a prayer for
safety."

There was a solemn earnestness in Edith's manner which
precluded further conversation, and Judith sat for the rest of the
journey brooding over the mystery. A thousand times she was
tempted to demand an explanation, but as often repressed her curiosity
through affection and respect.

An hour's rowing brought them to Thorp, not as now, a lovely
village, adorned by all that wealth and culture can bestow, but a
low marshy swamp, dotted here and there with the rude wattle
cabins of the Saxon herds, Who tended the cattle of their Norman
masters. From this point of their journey increased caution seemed
necessary, and they crept slowly along the left side of the river,
their noiseless course shadowed by the thick foliage of the trees and
shrubs which overhung its banks. Twice in their progress they
were alarmed by the sound of a distant oar, and compelled to lie
fiat within their boat, until the danger passed them. At last they
contrived, unobservant reach the low shelving bank which conducted

to the hills. Silently the rowers, who had evidently received their
instructions, drew their boat from out the stream, and concealed it
in the sedges, which grew in rank abundance on the banks. As soon
as this was done the old ferryman struck into a narrows pathway,
half hid by underwood and long dank grass. The countess and
Judith followed him, the rear being protected by the men-at-arms ;
and thus, without a word being spoken, the little party, in silence
and in darkness, pursued their way till they came to a rude pile of
unhewn stones, evidently the remains of some Druid temple. Here
a light was struck, the men-at-arms searching the bushes round, to
see if any cm-ious eye had dogged their steps, their hands upon their
long straight swords ready for immediate action.

The countess took an illuminated parchment from her bosom — it
was a plan with which Father Oswald had supplied her for her
enterprise — and compared the characters traced upon it with those
graven ujjon a large upright stone, which, from its enormous weight,
had resisted the zeal of the converted Saxons to overturn it.
Apparently they were the same ; a sigh escaped her breast, as if the
discovery had relieved it from some oppressive weight ; and for
the first time she spoke, but in a voice so low it scarcely scared the
genius of silence from the place :

Thank Heaven ! they are the same. Quick — apply the instrument
! "

Judith, whom the transactions of the last two hours had completely
bewildered, beheld with increased astonishment the old
ferryman draw from his breast a kind of key, of curious form and
antique workmanship, and apply it to one of the interstices of the
stone, which, slowly turning on a concealed axle, disclosed a narrow
passage descending into the very bowels of the earth. Two of the
men-at-arms advanced, lit their torches, and disappeared through
the aperture. The countess, without the least hesitation, was
about to follow, when, unable longer to contain her apprehensions,
Judith caught her by the robe.

What wouMst thou .? " demanded the courageous Edith.

"Kill me, dear lady," replied her attendant; "but do not ask
me to descend with you through yon dark fearful passage — it leads
to death, or to some charnel-house."

To neither," interrupted her mistress ; " it leads to a recess
within the Druid's cave, where unseen we may observe what passes.
Patience, girl ; do not lose courage now ! That stone once closed, and
vfe are safe."

But should our enemies pursue us thither ? "

Impossible ! " continued the countess ; " one being only knows
of its existence, Haga the Arch-Druid, who revealed it to me.
Come," she added, " one moment's hesitation may defeat my plans,
peril my Ulrick's safety, and destroy my hopes. What ! " she
exclaimed, with increased vehemence, seeing that Judith still

hesitated, " wouldst thou belie a life of proved fidelity, and desert
thy mistress in an hour like this ? "

The implied reproach, the mere suspicion of treason to Edith,
stung the breast of her hearer with a far keener pang than her not
unnatural terrors, or even her fear of death, and restored both her
courage and self-possession — qualities which, under ordinary
circumstances, she eminently possessed.

Lead on, gracious lady," she replied ; " you are right, quite
right ; why should I hesitate to follow where you lead ! — e'en to the
grace ? Should I expire at your feet, I should but end my days
where I have passed the service of my life."

A quiet grasp of the hand was Edith's sole reply. She
immediately descended the steps, Judith resolutely following. The
concealed mechanism was again set in motion, and the Druid's
stone resumed its accustomed place. For a long time they followed
their guide in darkness through the many windings of the secret
passage, for unfortunately the air was confined and too impure to
admit of their burning torches. Their progress was rendered still
more disagreeable by the unevenness of the road, and the flight of
numerous owls and bats, whom their visit had disturbed. Their
rugged pathway at last terminated in a species of hall or cave,
where they could breath more freely. The chalky and flinty walls
and roof had been shaped into something like form ; nay, even
architectural ornament, such as it was, had been added. Here they
again were enabled to light their torches ; for the air, from either
natural or artificial fissures, entered with reviving freshness. A
flight of ride steps, at the extreme end of the hall — if we may so
call the cave in which the party were assembled — seemed the only
means of further progress. Edith and her nov courageous
attendant mounted them, and discovered that they led to a sort of
parapet, too high for them to pass, but which they were sufficiently
tall to look over ; in fact, it was a species of wall separating the secret
passage from Whitlingham cave, and contrived by the Druids for
some now long-forgotten purpose.

The scene which presented itself to their astonished sight was
one which Salvator Rosa's magic pencil might have well described.
A huge fire blazed in the centre of the cave, which was far more
lofty than at the present day, the gradual accumulation of sand and
earth having considerably lessened its elevation. Torches of blazing
pine were fixed at regular intervals in iron niches in the wall, their
red glare falling on piles of arms, so arranged as to be ready for
immediate use. Polished shields and shining helms reflected back
the blaze, and rendered all that passed distinctly visible. A
considerable body of men were assembled within the cave ; some
were dozing off to sleep, others preparing food, or listening with
excited attention to the tales of old which one or two bards, in
under-tones. recited. But the chief personages of the scene were

Standing together near the spot were Edith and her companion were
concealed. The principal personage was a tall old man, whose
muscular form and stately limbs, well squared shoulders, and firm
step, told he was still possessed of giant strength. A chain of
massive gold was twisted round his neck, and bracelets of the same
precious metal adorned his arms and wrists : his tunic of green
cloth fell to the middle of his legs, and was richly trimmed with
sables : his countenance was strongly marked, but more perhaps by
grief than age ; a lofty brow which so overhung the eye, that it
would have given a heaviness of expression to the face, had not
the eyes redeemed it ; they were of that piercing blue so peculiar to
the Saxon race, and so expressive of love or hatred, scorn, passion,
or revenge.

The heart of the concealed countess beat wildly, as she gazed upon
him ; for Edda, the friend of her father, the father of her murdered
Edward, stood before her, — not, indeed, as when last she saw him
in the brown pride of autumn's age, but changed by winter's snows ;
still they sat gracefully upon him. His voice was round and rich of
tone as ever. Involuntarily the tears coursed each other down her
cheek as its first accents fell upon her ear ; for the sweet memory of
olden times came over her.

'Tis well we are resolved at last," said Edda, addressing his
brother franklins, who were standing round him. "The Saxon
sword hath remained so long inactive, I thought 'twas glued for ever
in its scabbard. Thank Heaven ! 'tis drawn again. We have too
long been dreamers ; my blood has grown thick, dull, and heavy ;
a striking bout," he added, " will once more send it, with youthful
vigour, dancing through my veins, or end my dreams at once."

Long and patiently did Edith listen to their various arrangements ;
each Saxon leader was assigned his post ; whilst Edda, the head of
the far most numerous sept, taking advantage of the weakness of the
garrison, who were nearly all expected to assist at the trial by battle,
was to storm the castle. Coolly she heard discussed before her
whether the signal should be given for the attack before or after the
death of Ulrick, the end of whose contest with so renowned a knight
as Herman seemed anything but doubtful. The last points in their
proceedings being settled, one by one the numerous franklins took
their leave, and Edda, with his followers, remained alone within the
cave. For a while he occupied himself in giving orders to his men,
who received them with that respectful alacrity which showed their
veneration for their chief, whose countenance, since the departure
of his brother nobles, had gradually lost its energetic expression, and
resumed its habitual melancholy. Drawing his ample cloak around
him, he began soliloquising, as he paced to and fro by the watch-fire's
light within the cave.

So," he murmured, " the Saxon wolf-dog is again unslipt to hunt
its Norman master. 'Tis a desperate chance to rouse the slumbering

courage of a vanquished people — raise them from slavery to freedom.
Should we fail, how many widowed dames and tireless sons will
curse the day we drew the powerless sword ! "

Many," exclaimed Edith, who had left the place of her concealment,
and stood before him.

He started, and gazed on her with an expression of awe and fear.
He was ignorant of the secret means by which she entered. He
knew that the approaches to the cave were guarded by those upon
whose fidelity he could depend. It seemed as if a warning spirit
had risen from the earth to turn him from his purpose.

Who and what art thou ? " he demanded,

Edith slowly raised her veil, and exposed her pale but still lovely
features to his view. Though many a year had passed since they
had met, he knew her at a glance,

"And what," he courteously asked, "brings Hugh de Bigod's
widowed countess to this lonely cave the very night of her lord's
obsequies ? Has the Norman heir driven his Saxon widow from,
her home ? If so, lady, thou art welcome — welcome for the memory
of one most dear — of one whose love was the first spring-flower of
thy virgin heart, though forgotten now."

Never forgotten, father," answered Edith, "for there are lines
BO deeply traced upon the heart, death's icy fingers only can efface
them. 'Tis true, to save my wretched race from death, my father's
honoured age from beggary and shame, I gave my hand to Hugh de
Bigod, whose generous nature ne'er wronged the sacrifice ; but my
love was buried deep in Edward's lonely grave."

The name of his son, pronounced by the lips of the woman he
had so fondly loved, agitated the old man ; the tone of her voice
awakened many a long-forgotten thought, jarred many a broken
chord ; a tear dimmed his deep blue eye, but with a hasty movement
of his hand he dashed it aside,

Speak not of Edward ! " he exclaimed ; " I am old, and age is
weak. Make not a woman of me,"

I must speak of him, and you must listen to me,"

How .? "

His widow asks," said Edith, throwing herself upon her knee,
and clasping the old man's hand, " the mother of his son."

Woman ! " cried, or rather shrieked, the aged franklin, " what
have 1 heard ? My Edward's widow — the mother of his son ! I ama
lonely' man, crushed by my sorrows. Do not trifle with me. The
storm," he added, " which once raged here, is now at peace ; but
words like these break the icy barriers of my heart, to spread, like
Etna's lava, desolation round,"

The fearful energy of the old man's words alarmed the countess,
but failed to check her resolution. In his passion he had grasped
her wrist so intently, that the flesh quivered beneath his pressure ;
still she felt it not. With her disengaged hand she took a paper

from her bosom, stained by time, but still more by her tears ; it was
the proof of her secret marriage with his son. Eagerly the old man
perused its contents. Twice he tried to speak, but his emotions
choked him. " True, true," he sobbed ; " none but a heart so seared
by treachery could doubt a voice like thine. Child of my friend,
bride of my murdered boy, come to his father's heart, which throbs
to pillow thee amid life's storms." In an instant Edith's arms were
twined round the old man's neck, her head reposing on his manly
breast ; the warm tears trickling down his venerable cheeks mingled
with hers. " But your son," he added — Edward's boy — my boy — is
he living yet ? A look — a sign — and I am happy." The anxious
tone of the speaker showed how deeply every feeling was interested
in the repl3\ He watched his helpless burthen ; fate seemed to hang
upon her lips.

He lives," murmured Edith.

Thank Heaven ! Oh, many a goodly rood of land, for this, shall
grace our Lady's shrine. Where is my boy ? "

A prisoner in the castle."

A prisoner ! " echoed Edda ; " 111 tear him thence, though a
Norman's blood cemented every stone. A prisoner ! Tyrants ! are
they not drunk with blood enough already ? A prisoner ! But enough
he lives, and Edward's bo;/ shall not long linger in the Norman's
hold. Life's purple tide rekindles at my heart ; my nerves thrill
with the energies of former years ; revenge and rage are struggling
in my breast for dreadful mastery. Spirits of my fathers," he
continued, casting himself upon his knees, " in whose veins the
mingled blood of kings and heroes ran — Odin and Hengist, from
your thrones look down, and let your power protect your wretched
race — rally, immortal spirits, round my sword, and guide it to each
Norman tyrant's heart ! "

Not to the Norman's, but the Saxon's, father. From our own
race the serpent sprang whose venom hath undone us — Saxon the
sword which made thee childless and me a widow — Saxon the tongue
which would complete our ruin, and dares accuse our murdered
Edward's boy ! "

At the words of the countess a ray of light penetrated the mind of
Edda ; and he exclaimed, as the truth flashed upon him :

Ulrick is thy son ! "

He is ! " continued Edith — " the noble, generous, the heroic boy !
Father, thou needs not blvTsh to own him ; not in the history of thy
honoured line, princes, or fabled heroes of thy race, will a nobler
heai-t or mind be found than Ulrick's."

Rapidly did the excited mother relate to the powerful franklin
the history of her early marriage — Ulrick's birth, supposed death,
and miraculous preservation by Herbert de Lozenga, by whose
direction she had been sent to warn him that the plans of the Saxon
insurrection were betrayed, and measures taken to defeat them. As

she proceeded in her tale to support the truth of her assertions, she
showed the signet ring, upon the production of which by Father
Oswald, Herman had so unexpectedly declared the nobility of Ulrick's
birth ; and in conclusion she placed in his hands a packet, bearing
the seal of the prelate, the contents of which she was herself
unacquainted with. Hastily Edda broke the seal, and found it to
contain an agreement, signed by most of the Saxon chiefs engaged
in the conspiracy, in the event of their success, to deprive him of
the government of his vast possessions, and allow him during his
life the enjoyment merely of a portion of his revenues, unless, to
avoid the humiliation, he chose to adopt Herman as his heir. The
parchment had fallen into the hands of the bishop, through the agency
of Father Oswald.

"What," exclaimed Edda, as he recognised each well known
signature and seal, " would they divide the lion's spoil ere he had
fallen into the snare ? Fools, they have sealed their own most
righteous doom ! The pitfall they have dug shall prove their
ruin ! "

Long and anxiously did the countess remain in consultation with
the chief, and morning had already dawned ere the lonely bark,
with its silent rowers, was again launched upon the stream.

CHAPTER VII.

It was late on the morning after the obsequies of Hugh de Bigod,
when the seneschal entered the prison of Ulrick, to announce to
him the decision of the Normans : that Mirvan should be permitted
to appear in the lists as the champion of the deceased earl — a
ceremony Which he fulfilled with all the chivalrous courtesy of the
age. The impression which the announcement made upon the
generous heart of the prisoner may more easily be imagined than
described ; love, honour, all opposed it. The haughty Saxon who
had taunted him with the mystery of his birth, who had outraged
his pride, infamously and falsely accused him of a crime at which
his soul revolted, he could have met in the deadly strife of arms ;
nay, thirsted for the encounter, which, in the opinions of the age,
would have decided the question of innocence or guilt between
them ; but Mirvan was a different enemy — he was the first friend
of his youth — the brother of Matilda — the son called on, as he
believed, to avenge his parent's blood. Friendship as well as
principle forbade him to draw the sword in such a contest. The
struggle was short but bitter ; and he determined, whatever might
be the consequence, to refuse the combat, where victory would be
worse than defeat— where every blow he struck would wound a

H 2

heart clearer than his own. Firmly, therefore, he declared his
refusal to meet any bnt Herman in the lists ; nor could the friendly
remonstrance to the seneschal induce him even for a moment to
reconsider his determination.

You are aware," urged his visitor, "that the trial by battle once
appealed to, and then declined, leaves you no other judgment ; by
the law of arms, you will be deemed guilty, and suffer not only death,
but dishonour."

Be it so," replied Ulrick ; " better to die v^ith an unmerited
stain upon my name than to live to bear within my heart the fires
of remorse. I will not lift my arm against my earliest, though
misguided, friend."

Not even to prove your innocence ? " demanded the officer.

No," answered the youth, after a moment's pause ; " enough
that my own heart knows it."

Who else will know it when thou art dead, branded with a
felon's name ? "

Heaven ! " exclaimed Ulrick, with a look of resignation, " and
the good angels who watch the grave of peace."

The seneschal, whom the prisoner's firmness touched, bowed
respectfully, and withdrew.

Although unable to appreciate his motives, he respected them :
his rough soldier nature admired the marts courage which could
so calmly contemplate the approach of death, rejecting the last
chance of safety.

So ends my dream of life," exclaimed Ulrick, as he heard the
heavy iron bar drawn on the exterior of his prison-door, " Honour
has been its dream of youth — my manhood shall not shame it at its
close. Erect in my integrity, I can meet my doom, and march to
the scaffold as to the victor's car."

Such," said a deep voice behind him, " is the Christian's courage
and the martyrs faith."

The prisoner started at the sound, and, turning, beheld Father
Oswald, who had entered his dungeon by the secret passage. His
astonishment was extreme ; for, from the state of insensibility in
which the poisoned wine had plunged him, he was ignorant of the
monk's previous visit.

Father Oswald ! How, in the names of every saint, gained you
admittance here ? "

*' By natural means," replied the old man, pointing to the secret
passage, which he had left open ; " by the same means thou mayest
avoid thv fate. Follow me."

Whither ? "

To liberty."

An expression of scorn curled the prisoner's lip ; for, in his mind,
flight was connected with dishonour.

What ! " he exclaimed, " fly ! and live to bear a branded name 1

give truth the lie ! and turn approver to my proper shame ? Oh,
never, never ! "

Then meet the Norman champion in the fight," replied the
monk.

Impossible ! " said the youth, mournfully ; " he is my friend —
unkind, I grant you, still he is my friend ! "

Friend ! " repeated Oswald, in a tone of pity. " Do such dreams
linger in thee yet ? Natures like thine are born to be deceived.
Cold as this heart is, it can feel for thee."

Hast thou no faith in friendship ? "

As much as in the sea's delusive calm before the tempest breaks,"
bitterly answered the old man ; " as much as in the serpent's
innocence because it sleeps. Friendship ! I tell thee, boy, it is the
coin with which man cheats his fellows — a wretch plotting against
his neighbour's peace and life can find no mask so sure to hide his
purpose as friendship's sullied name. The bird whose wings fan
its own funeral pyre is not more purely fable than a friend.
Wouldst thovi be happy," he added, " dream not of friendship
more."

Mirvan is my friend," interrupted Ulrick.

Yet he, unheard, condemned thee," coolly observed the priest.

The reply shot a pang to Ulrick's breast ; for in the confidence of
his nature, the generosity of his heart, he felt that he could not have
judged unheard as Mirvan judged ; still he endeavoured to defend
him.

His father's death," he faltered, " and the false words of an
artful fiend, have blinded his better reason ; so confidence has given
place to doubt."

"And what is friendship, fi a doubt can shake it ? But come,"
added the priest, "for I have still a solemn ministry to be performed,
and I could wish that mercy should precede justice. The path to
freedom lies before thee. Fly from the enemies who seek thy blood,
to those who long to welcome thee."

Never," resolutely answered the young man, "will I consent to
stain my name by ignominious flight."

Not though it lead thee to thy mother's arms?" demanded the
priest, "to her maternal blessing, to a name proud as the proudest
of thy Norman foes — a name which renders thee the mate of any line
their pirate race e'er boasted ? "

What meanest thou, father, by these words ? " demanded the
youth, deeply excited. " Thou art a holy man ; thy words, should
be of truth. Are these things so ? "

The priest silently bowed his head in confirmation of his words
words which the prisoner had drunk into his very soul — words
which assured him that his boyhood's hopes were no longer
dreams.

And yet," said Ulrick, despairingly, after a pause, " I cannot fly."

Not," interrupted the monk, " if, the moment thou wert free,
the evidence of thine innocence, attested by the hand of thine accuser,
witnessed by those who now would judge thee, were produced, to
clear thy fame beyond suspicion's breath ? "

Is it possible ? "

Canst thou doubt me ? " he added, seeing that Ulrick's last
objection was shaken. " Men so near the grave as I am seldom lie.
Here is a dress in which thou mayst pass unsuspected by the
soldiery, should we encounter such when beyond the castle wall.
Array thyself, for time is precious with me."

Ulrick hesitated no longer ; the assurance that the proofs of his
innocence should be placed within his hands, when once beyond
the castle, decided him, and he hastened to assume the disguise of
a lay brother, which his kind protector had brought him. Just ashe
had drawn the cowl over his face, the door of his prison opened,
and the seneschal, who had been directed to conduct the prisoner
before the nobles, to explain his extraordinary resolution of not
appearing in the lists against Mirvan, entered the cell. His
astonishment at the sight of the two monks was extreme.

Where is the prisoner ? " he exclaimed, after having cast a
hasty glance round the cell.

Beyond your reach," coolly replied Father Oswald.

Treachery is here ! " exclaimed the seneschal, raising his voice.
What ho ! guard ! the prisoner hath escaped ! Warders, to your
posts ! Treason, ho ! "

The effect of the alarm was to set every man within the walls on
the alert. The word was passed from post to post, and the heavy
tramp of the armed soldiery was heard upon the stairs ascending to
the tower.

Too late, too late ! " whispered the prisoner to Father Oswald ;
the guard are here."

A dozen men-at-arms rushed into the prison as he spoke. Firmly
the monk grasped Ulrick's arm as he replied —

Were their chains upon thy limbs, boy, they should melt like
wax ; were the sword above thy head, I would shiver it ere it fell.
Brute force is theirs — science and wisdom mine."

Seize them ! " exclaimed the seneschal. " Cut them down if
they attempt to pass ! "

The men were about to obey their chief, when Father Oswald
scattered a powder upon the floor, which instantly ignited on coming
in contact with the air, and filled the prison with a thick vapour,
from which lurid flames occasionally flashed, and peals of thunder
rolled. The affrighted Normans fell prostrate through fear and
superstition, the belief i'^i magic being universal at the time, though
condemned by law, both civil and ecclesiastic.

The fiend ! the fiend !" they shouted, and in their terror called
upon every saint to save them. Gradually the flames subsided, and

the dense vapour became dispersed ; when they recovered sufficient
courage to look around them. The two monks had disappeared ;
they found themselves within the prison, trembling and alone. A
long, winding staircase, concealed in the thickness of the wall,
brought the fugitives to the very foundations of the castle, where
the air felt cold and damp. Here they paused for breath, and
Father Oswald lit a torch which he had brought beneath his vest.
Ulrick found himself, on looking round, in a cell something similar
totheone he had just quitted ; the same rough-sculptured Crucifixion
adorned the wall, representing St. William in the Wood. From
another concealed passage opening from its back, they proceeded in
the direction of the chapel, to which they mounted by similar
winding stairs to those they had descended.

Caution ! " exclaimed the priest, as they reached the last step,
which brought them to a panel of carved oak, which evidently
answered the purpose of a concealed door, the complicated mechanism
by which it was opened being on their side of it. His companion
arrested his step at the word, for he heard voices in the chapel. By
removing a small slide, Ulrick was enabled to peep through a portion
of the fretwork and see Avhat was passing in the sacred edifice, without
himself being seen by those he watched.

Isabel and Matilda were standing near the altar in earnest
conversation with Odo of Caen, who seemed to defend himself but
weakly against some joint request. It was the voice of the former
that first met his ear.

Impossible ! " she exclaimed, pettishly, as if repeating the words
of the knight ; " there is nothing impossible to a willing mind or to
a lady's prayer. What harm can possibly arise from my cousin and
myself visiting the prisoner in his dungeon ? Think you that we
shall smuggle him away beneath our wimples ? or all three escape
on a fiery dragon ? "

Not that," replied Odo, smiling at her earnestness ; " but he is
under ward, and I am pledged in honour to admit neither friend nor
enemy to converse with him. Be reasonable, pretty coz, and press
me therefore no more upon this theme."

Indeed, but I will press thee, and earnestly, too," answered
Isabel ; " for thy objections, despite thy protestations, are as slight
as thy wish to favour us. By thy vow of knighthood, thou art
bound to succour innocence ; and Ulrick, I tell thee, again and again,
is innocent. Had Herman been the champion, tongue of mine
had never wagged to prevent the fight. Heaven, I doubt not, would
have protected the righteous cause, and decided well between them,
for I feel assured that Herman is "

Herman will never more appear as champion in any cause,"
gravely interrupted the knight, who shuddered as he remembered
his midnight execution in the cloisters of the cathedral, and his own
share in it.

The better for the cause, if it be a good one. But come," she
added, " brother Odo — for I suppose I must some day call thee so —
pleasure us in this. Why, thou makes more mouths to perform an
act of justice than others would to strain a point of honour.
Matilda and myself both vouch for Ulrick's innocence ; and surely
the word of two noble Norman maidens may outweigh a Saxon's
Blander. Would that my sister Jane were here ! — thou wouldst not
dare say nay to her."

Though not convinced, the knight was shaken in his resolution ;
the appeal to her sister's name had touched a secret chord in his
stern nature ; yet he yielded not at once, but continued to resist,
more for honour than the hope of victory.

Could I but see the use of such an interview — what chance ! "
he muttered.

Every hope," interrupted Matilda, speaking for the first time.
There is some fearful mystery concealed in Ulrick's accusation.
Woman's wit will often find the key where man's boasted wisdom
fails. We judge from sympathies ; cold man from reason. Did he
not risk his own to save my brother's life ? Was not the sword
with which 'tis said the felon blow was struck my parting gift ? A
gift," she added, slightly blushing as the eye of the knight
encountered hers, " sanctioned by my brother's presence and my
cousin's smile ! Odo, should either Ulrick or my brother fall in this
unholy' fight, eternal must be their remorse who might have stayed
the contest."

'•' 'Tis s^yed already," answered Odo. " Know you not the
prisoner hath refused to measure swords with Mirvan ? "

Noble Ulrick ! " exclaimed Matilda ; "yet not more noble than
my judgment painted him ; and what is the result ? "

"By the law of arms," he reluctantly answered, "he is
condemned to die."

To die !" exclaimed Matilda, violently excited. " Oh, no !
you cannot be so lost to every precept of humanity — to every voice
of justice. Unheard to die ! to quit the gorgeous scenes of this fair
earth — exchange life's hopes and gushing sympathies for the vile
headsman's steel, with honour's impulses throbbing at the heart —
to sink to a dishonoured grave, is e'en too horrible for thought. If
it be so," she added, firmly e'en at the place of execution one
voice shall still proclaim his innocence, and vindicate his name."

Our readers may well imagine with what transport the eloquent
words of the speaker fell upon the listener's ear. The sinner who
heard the angel of mercy pleading for him at the judgment seat
could not have felt a deeper transport. In the excitement of the
moment he would have quitted his concealment, and, regardless of
the danger, have cast himself at Matilda's feet, to pour out his heart
in grateful prayer, had not the hand of Father Oswald wisely
restrained him.

Patience," whispered the old man ; " that which is deferred is
far from lost ; thon yet shall thank her like thyself, my son,"

Even Odo was struck by the fair speaker's confidence and despair ;
they naturally turned his thoughts to a fresh channel.

Lady," he said, " thou lowest this unknown youth ; and love,
too often, blinds our better reason."

Odo of Caen," replied the maiden, with dignity, " this is
ungenerously urged ; but since it hath been so, be this my answer,
that never word of love from Ulrick's lips have fallen on my ear ;
and I spring not from a race that could, unsought, be won. Ulrick,
the unknown youth, can never be to me more than the preserver
of my brother's life. De Bigod's daughter weds but with a line as
pure and as illustrious as her own."

The deep blush which had suffused the speaker's countenance
gave way to the mortal paleness which, since her father's death,
overshadowed it. The rough soldier was awed by the dignity of
her manner, and the hopeless tone in which her words were
uttered. If not convinced, he seemed to be convinced ; though
skilled to read the human heart, he generously closed the page, and
strove to read no further. For a few moments there was a pause,
which Odo was the first to break.

Lady," he said, bending the knee with courtly gallantry, " that
I believe my thoughts have wronged thee, be this the proof. I yield
to thy demand ; I will myself conduct thee and the Lady Isabel to
the prison door, and leave you to converse with the accused, of
whom I'll think the better that his innocence is vouched by thee.
Speak," he added, with a smile, " am I forgiven ? "

Forgiven ? " said Isabel, who saw that Matilda was unable to
reply ; " ay, and shalt be rewarded, too. I'll plead thy cause with
Jane, and on her wedding-day my cousin and myself will braid her
hair, and every pearl we have shall go to deck it. But when," she
added, " shall we to the prison ? — tomorrow is the day appointed
for the fight."

Odo was about to Deeply, when the alarm-bell of the castle caught
his ear, as it sent forth its iron summons. He' started at the sound :
his first thought was of the intended Saxon insurrection. The
possibility of the prisoner's escape never struck him. Before he
had even time to draw his sword, Robert of Artois rushed into the
chapel.

Speak ! " cried Odo ; " what means the alarm ? — are the Saxon
hounds upon us ? "

The prisoner hath escaped ! "

Matilda and Isabel were in an instant upon their knees before the
shrine in mute thanksgiving ; a weight seemed to have been removed
from both their hearts — Matilda for Ulrick's, and Isabel for Mirvan's
safety.

Escaped ! " repeated Odo ; " impossible ! the tower was guarded

by my own and Bigod's followers. I'll stake my life on their
fidelity. There must be some witchcraft or devilry in this. But
follow me," he added, " Whate'er the mystery may be, we'll see the
bottom of it."

Odo, followed by Robert of Artois, left the building as he spoke.

Now, then, follow ! " whispered Father Oswald ; " we must
cross the chapel. On the opposite side is the entrance to another
passage, which leads us beneath the castle moat, e'en to the cloisters.
It were dangerous now to traverse the guarded plain between them ;
follow me, then, in silence."

He opened the concealed spring as he spoke, and in an instant he
found himself with his companion in the chapel. So absorbed were
both Isabel and Matilda in their prayers, that they heeded not the
echo of the priest's sandalled foot, or the yet heavier tread of Ulrick.
The latter could not, however, in his love and gratitude, forget the
generous defence of his honour made by the lips most dear to him.
Led by the passionate impulse of his heart, he cast himself at the
maiden's feet, and printed a burning kiss upon her hand.

Matilda started with surprise at such an action from a monk, and
was about to rebuke his insolence, when the voice whose tones had
so often awakened an echo in her heart reassured her.

Angel of mercy," he exclaimed, "farewell! thy judgment hath
not wronged thy goodness ; the spotless virgin in her cloistered cell
the infant smiling at its mother's breast — are not more free from
blood than I am. At the hour of battle, fear not but that I shall be
there, to prove my innocence or brave my doom."

Before Matilda or Isabel could reply, l?lrick had again drawn
the cov\d over his face, and disappeared after his mysterious
conductor.

Herbert de Lozenga, Edda, and the countess were seated in an
apartment of the episcopal palace, when Father Oswald, after
conducting Ulrick through the subterranean passages which
connected the castle with the cathedral, emerged with him into the
cloisters.

Thank Heaven ! " exclaimed the priest, " we are secure at last,
boy ; the danger is over, and I have kept my promise to thee."

He was about to leave him as he spoke.

Stay, father," cried the youth ; " safety, indeed, thou hast
secured me ; but, remember, it must not be safety without honour ;
either the proofs you promised of my innocence, or I surrender
myself once more a prisoner."

What ! " exclaimed Oswald, with a melancholy smile, " doubtful
still .'' " He advanced and took his companion by the hand, and
continued in a kinder voice : " Ulrick, I have been a man of sin
and sorrow ; my pride has been humbled into the dust, my wisdom
confounded by a child. Yet not to redeem the past — to avoid the
last fearful ordeal which awaits me — would I pollute these lips

with falsehood. The proofs I promised you exist ; another hand
than mine will yield them to thee. Give thy present hour to
nature's claims — another will be found for honour's. Remember
that thou hast a mother, whose heart throbs as it would burst
its bosom to enfold thee. Follow me — I will conduct thee to
her."

There was a tone in the monk's voice which at once convinced
Ulrick, and forbade reply. Its sadness touched him — its truthfulness
confirmed him in his confidence. With the obedience, if not the simplicity,
of a child, he followed his conductor to the room where his
earliest benefactor and new-found parent awaited him. Eagerly did
the prelate, on his appearance, advance to meet him, for he loved
him like a son. Ulrick's heart was the first which in his sorrows
taught him his own was human — recalled him to himself — restored
him to the world ; and he was now returned to him, like the
shipwrecked mariner whom all thought lost, through danger and
through storm, doubly welcome to his lonely heart. Fervently,
therefore, was the good man's benediction given, and grateful tears
accompanied it.

Ulrick," he said, as the youth rose from his knees, " there is a
blessing as sacred even as the priest's — as grateful to the heart as
the anointed prelate's holy words. Does not nature whisper thee it
is thy mother's ? Go, ask it," he added, " of the heart which yearns
to give it thee ; tell her she need not blush to call thee by the
endearing name of son,"

I do believe thee," exclaimed the happy Edith, as she threw her
arms around the necks Ulrick, and imprinted a motherly, holy kiss
upon his cheek ; " come to the widowed heart which through long
years hath mourned thee as the dead, yet feels its sorrows overpaid
in finding thee at last. Ulrick, m\ boy, my good and brave ! my
Edward's image ! my life's only flower ! the thrill which struck me
when I first beheld thee was Nature struggling to proclaim thee
mine ; and, dullard as I am, my heart was deaf to her mute eloquence,
or I had known my son."

A flood of tears relieved the overwrought heart, which else had
burst with too mich happiness. The prelate felt that there were
scenes too sacred even for his ministry to witness. Silently he
withdrew from the apartment, followed by Father Oswald, into the
cloisters, which for a while he paced in silence, the aged monk
watching his steps.

Brother," he at last exclaimed, turning to Oswald, " thy penance
upon earth hath indeed been sore, and this last blow surpasses human
justice. Fearful as have been the crimes of thy son, I feel both for
him and thee."

I can bear it," replied the old man, with a firm voice. " His
will who ruleth all things be accomplished ! "

If Heaven can pardon," resumed the bishop, " should man

prove relentless ? May not the life of thy unhappy and misguided
boy be spared — spared for repentance and for future hope ?"

My lord, he is repentant. But the crime of sacrilege must be
atoned ; the insulted altar calls for expiation. Our duties both are
painful : yours to yield him to the arm which condemns him to the
flames ; mine to reconcile the victim for the sacrifice. Shrink not
from yours, I am prepared for mine."

The speaker hesitated for a moment, as if struggling with some
internal weakness, and then threw himself upon his knees before
the bishop, who instantly endeavoured to raise him, which the old
man resisted.

No ! " he exclaimed, " this posture suits me best ; it is a
suppliant's. Grant me the only favour I ever asked of man."

Name it, my son," replied his superior, anxious to please
him.

Let not my son, the last of a line whose royal priesthood is lost
in the mist of ages, be dragged like a peasant to the stake. Clad
in his knightly armour, unshamed by degradation, let him die."

"Willingly, my son."

The heart is willing, but the flesh is weak," continued Oswald
I cannot see him die ; but I will so prepare him for his fate, that
you shall find an unresisting sacrifice. Till the last hour arrives,
leave him with me and Heaven."

Be it as you wish. Orders shall be given even in justice to
remember mercy. His sufferings shall be brief."

Not so," interrupted the monk ; " I would not abridge one
mortal pang ; for, oh ! " he added, "they are too little to atone for
sacrilege, neglected duty, and a soul perverted. Your blessing,
holy father ! " be continued — " your blessing ! Pray for me at the
hour of daily sacrifice, when from thy sacred lips the supplication
for offending man rises to Heaven ! — remember him whose youth
was darkness, and whose age was sorrow ! "

The clanging of an iron heel upon the pavement caused them
both to start. Meekly bowing. Father Oswald rose from his knee,
after receiving the episcopal benediction, and directed his steps
towards the prison, for his last interview with his unhappy son.

Even the approach of an armed knight — for such the stranger
proved to be — would not have diverted the prelate's mind from the
chain of thought in which his interview with the monk had thrown
it, had he not recognised in the red-haired and coarse-visaged stranger
the son of his Sovereign — the same, who, shortly after, under the
title of William Rus us, succeeded to the Crown, and lost both his
crown and his life by his vexatious tyranny. On recognising him,
Herbert de Lozenga immediately recovered his courtly self-possession,
and advanced to meet him.

Thanks, my lord bishop, thanks," he exclaimed, with the
bluntness which characterised his manners ; " we doubt not of your

sincerity, but something to restore the inner man were more welcome
now than compliments. We have ridden hard, my lord."

No expression on the features of his hearer showed the prelate's
high-bred scorn of his unpolished guest. By a silver call, which,
after the manner of the age, he wore suspended by his side, he
summoned a lay brother to his presence, to whom he communicated
the necessary orders for an ample refection to be
instantly served in his own private apartment.

And so the Saxon clods would rise against us ! " continued
William, " By the hand of Rollo, but I will break their stubborn
necks, or bend them to the yoke ! I will not leave a Saxon
franklin in his hall ; fire and sword shall purge the land of
all who bear the hated name. I will make England one vast
hunting-ground, and chase them at my pleasure. Our father's
health, my lord, we are told, breaks fast; let me but once be king ! "

Never, with such views," said Herbert, " canst thou maintain
thy seat ; thy very nobles, William, would forsake thee. Think by
how many ties the Saxon and the Norman bloods are linked, how
many holy sympathies unite the conquerors and the conquered.

By conciliation only canst thou hope to reign, or hold in peace
thy crown."

I'd rather hold it by my sword ! " impetuously answered the
fiery prince,

Crowns have often by the sword been won, but seldom held by
it. Thou saidst but now thy father's days were numbered. Ask
thyself, hast thou no rival near the throne whose claims may clash
with thine, despite thy father's favour ? "

William started, and remembered his elder brother, the
unfortunate Robert, whom he eventually supplanted both in
England and Normandy, and whose eyes were barbarously put
out, to render him incapable of reigning, Awhile he was a prisoner
in Cardiff Castle — put out by order of his cruel brother.

My father by his sword von this fair isle, and may will it ashe
pleases," proudly answered the prince. " I am not to be
checked by fears like these. By Heaven, prelate, did I deem thee
false, I'd place thee where thy treason should be hurtless."

A transient flush for a moment clouded the unusually pale
features of the bishop, and his eye was lit by a fire which showed
he had once been dangerous. Still, ever master of himself, he
paused till the sentiment of anger had passed away, and then
answered, in his usual cold and unimpassioned tone —

I am not of those whom princes judge. Reserve, young man,
your threat for those who fear them. Were it my will, prince as
thou art, to send thee bound in chains unto thy elder brother, or
place thy head upon the Tower of London, I'd find the means to doit.
Treason, to me ! Forget not, prince, I am of a line as noble as ,
thine own."

The young prince, who well knew the influence which Herbert
de Lozenga possessed amongst his countrymen, felt that he had
gone too far. The right of his father to leave him the crown he
had acquired, to the prejudice of his elder brother Robert, might
be disputed ; in such a case the bishop's voice would be most
important. He smothered, therefore, his secret wrath, and had
recourse to that hypocrisy for which he was distinguished.

Forgive me, my good lord," he exclaimed, with an expression
of frankness too transparent not to be seen through ; " but children
will sometimes quarrel with their tutors — you know your pleasure
ever is our will."

At this moment the lay brother returned to inform his superior
that the refection waited them.

'Tis well," said the bishop. " Prince, I attend you."

His guest for a few moments hesitated ; in his own treacherous,
cruel nature he doubted the sincerity of all men. He was alone,
in the power of a man whom he had indiscreetly threatened, and
he judged his conduct from what his own would have been on
such an occasion,

We are friends, my lord, I trust," he said. " Remember that
I came hither on your summons, slightly attended, with full
confidence in your well-known loyalty and faith. You will not
wrong it ? "

"The man who came on Herbert de Lozenga's summons,"
replied his host, " were safe, even though my brother's blood
crimsoned his hand. Eat of my bread, drink of my cup, and sleep
beneath my roof in peace as well as safety."

But half-satisfied, the young prince followed the prelate from the

cloisters. The collation once despatched, they remained for several

hours in council, where the strong mind of the ecclesiastic

completely subjugated the weak one of his guest, who determined,

at least on the present occasion, to be guided by his experience,

and conform himself to his wishes.

*****

Long after the preceding interview. Father Oswald was still
occupied in prayer with his son, whose repentance, at least,
appeared sincere ; humbly and devoutly he had received from his
parent's hand the baptismal rite, whose regenerating waters Avast
all guilt away ; a holy calm had succeeded the frantic ravings of
despair, and Ernulf felt almost resigned to die. His armour, which
he had taken off for the ceremony, was piled in one corner of the
room ; the font and tapers occupied the centre. As the penitent
rose from his knees, his father removed the stole from his neck and
placed it on the couch ; as he did so the great bell of the church
began its solemn peal, — a signal to the citizens and inmates of the
abbey that the execution was about to take place. Ernulf started at
the sound ; despite his resignation, he turned pale.

Fear not, boj'," said the old man ; " in reconciling thee to
Heaven, I have saved thee from the penalties of earth. It were not
just that thou shouldst suffer for thy crimes, while he whose neglect
perilled thy soul escaped,"

What meanest thou, father ? " demanded the prisoner, a faint
ray of hope once more returning to his heart,

That I have provided for thee the means of safety," answered
the old man, " Thickest thou," he added, " I would see thee perish
in the flames, and feel my sins had lit thy funeral pyre ? Take this
packet — it contains that which in a far distant land will guard thee
against want ; take it, together with my robe, and fly,"

And leave you here a prisoner in my place ? Never, father —
never ; I am not so base as that."

Even so," impassibly answered the monk ; " what should I
fear ? "

The vengeance of the Church," replied his son,

Ernulf, dismiss the thought ; I swear to thee no human
judgment shall ever reach me for the act. Besides, if my own heart
approves, I value not the censure of other men's tongues. My robes
will pass thee safe and unquestioned through the city. Once beyond
the walls, thou knowest too well the country to be retaken. Hark,"
he continued as the bell again struck upon his ear, " time grows
short. By the obedience which a son should pay his father, I
command thee assume my robe and fly ! "

The love of life is perhaps the last sentiment which abandons us,
and Ernulf felt it with renewed force at every sound of the signal
bell. The natural horror of death — and of such a death — decided
him, and he hastily assumed the robe and cowl which Father Oswald
had already laid aside. Calmly, and with an trembling hand, the
old man assisted him to arrange the disguise, and placed the packet
in his hand.

Farewell, my son," he exclaimed in a firm voice ; " on earth we
meet no more. Thy safety for ever banishes thee from England,
and my career on earth is short; pray that its end be happy.
Forgive the harshness that oppressed thy youth, the cold neglect
which closed thy opening heart, as I forgive thy disobedience and
thy crime. Farewell ! A priest's and a father's blessing rest upon
thee ! "

The speaker extended his arm over the disguised criminal as he
spoke, and remained for a few moments absorbed in mental prayer.
Gradually recovering himself, he led him to the door of the dungeon,
opened it, pressed his hand for the last time as he passed
through, then closed it between them for ever.

For some moments he listened to the receding footsteps of his
son, and breathed more freely as they fell fainter and fainter upon
his ear.

He is safe ! " exclaimed Oswald, with a smile of triumph. " I

thank Thee Father that the soul Thon gayest has not through my
most grievous sin been lost. Father and son may meet again with
Thee."

The old man advanced to the corner of the room, where the
armour of Ernulf was carefully piled together, and began to pray.
Louder and louder the bell of the cathedral tolled, as the crowds of
citizens, soldiers, and knights entered the precincts of the cathedral
to witness the execution. The fat, greasy burghers of Norwich
hustled each other for the best places, with as much brutality as
ever attended a public execution in later times, A compact crowd
filled the space between the west front and the old tower, since
replaced by the old Erpingham gate, leaving little more than sufficient
space for the procession and the execution of the criminal. A
large body of the bishop's retainers kept the ground, headed by
their commander ; and the abbatial and episcopal banner floated
from the turret of the church. The bishop's throne was erected on
the right of the square formed by the soldiers, and the seats for the
secular judges faced it. The latter had long been seated before the
procession issued from the gates of the cathedral. The chant of the
priesthood fell upon the ear, raising the solemn hymn of the Church,
the Dies Ice —

The day of wrath, the dreadful day,
When all that lives must pass away ;
When time shall feel that he is old,
The sun his glorious race is told ;
When every blazing star shall fall,
And nature wear one funeral pall ;
When death and sin shall cease to reign,
Thy justice shall unchanged remain.

Dies frae, dies ilia,

Solve secum in camilla.

The day of wrath — the trumpet's sound,
Shall call earth's varied nations round
As, to meet eternal doom,
They rise in myriads from the tomb.
To judgment come ! ' the angel cries,
The groaning earth, the bursting skies,
Piercing creation's utmost bounds,
Shall echo back the appalling sounds.

Dies frae, dies ilia.

Solve secum in camilla."

They come at last," exclaimed one of the Saxon franklins, at the
end of the hymn ; " and see, the proud prelate heads them. His
own turn," he muttered, " may not be long."

What's that, friend, you murmured ? " demanded George of
Erpingham, who had overheard the words.

The indiscreet Saxon quailed beneath the glance of the fierce
knight, like a whipped hound. Much as he feared the Normans,
he feared the Church still more — a sentiment which the scene he
had come to witness was not likely to decrease.

Nothing, sir knight," he stammered, confusedly ; mere idle
thoughts — no more."

Such thoughts are dangerous here. Keep them to thyself, Sir
Franklin, and it shall go well with thee."

The arrival of the procession cut short all further reply.

First came a noble, bareheaded, bearing the banner of the clergy,
followed by the monks, two and two, chanting the Litany of the
Saints : after them marched the dignitaries of the cathedral,
followed by the bishop clothed in the pomp of purple, but in black
cope and stole, in sign of penitence. On the appearance of the
prelate a suppressed murmur arose among the people — on any other
occasion they would have shouted — for they loved him for his
charities, had mourned him dead, and rejoiced to find him living.
The prisoner followed in complete armour, surrounded by his
guards.

The bishop and the clergy were no sooner seated, than the
criminal walked deliberately up to the stake, to Which the executioners
immediately attached him, while the civil judges pronounced
his sentence. " How dost thou die ? " demanded the marshal of
the city, whose duty it was to record the answers of the prisoner.

"A penitent," replied a deep voice, which issued from the helmet
of the victim, like an echo from the grave ; " a Catholic and a
Christian."

A shriek of mortal agony was heard at a distance in the crowd ;
and a monk, whom all took for Father Oswald, was seen trying to
force his way through the dense mass of people.

Apply the flames," firmly exclaimed the prisoner, upon whose
ears the scream had fallen. " At once perform your office — my soul
to God, my ashes to the winds."

The fire was applied, and in an instant the flames blazed with
fury ; for Herbert de Lozenga had humanely ordered the wood
which composed the pile to be saturated with spirits and resinous
gums. Again the monks raised the Requiem which implored mercy
for the departing sinner's soul. But a voice was heard, louder than
all their music, crying "Forbear ! " and the form of a frantic monk
was seen, with superhuman strength, fending the yielding crowd,
which gave way like a cleft stream before him. With a last effort
he broke through the inner circle, sprang into the blazing pile, and
endeavoured to release the victim from the stake ; his cowl fell
back, as he did so, and all recognised Ernulf, the squire, at whose
execution they imagined themselves assisting.

Save them ! " exclaimed the bishop, starting from his seat, as a
fearful suspicion crossed his mind — a suspicion, alas, but too true ;
for at the same moment, the straps which fastened the helmet of
the supposed criminal gave way, and fell into the flames, exposing
to the horror-stricken gaze of all the well-known features of Father
Oswald, who, to save his son, had thus contrived to take his place.

I 2

The very precautions taken to shorten the sufferings of the
criminal rendered it impossible to save him ; but he did not die
alone ; for his repentant son shared his death, and mingled his
ashes with his. Sadly and silently the crowd dispersed, like men
stricken with a mental palsy ; the scene they had witnessed having
displayed another page in that mysterious book, the human heart.

CHAPTER VIII.

In the plain extending from the moat which surrounded the hill
upon which Norwich Castle stands the lists were erected. The
simplicity of the preparations showed that they were intended for
no courtly tournament, but for an encounter where life and death
were set upon the issue. Close to the exterior palisades a large lodge
was built, adorned with purple hangings ; over it floated the banners
of Odo of Caen and his brother nobles, who were to act as judges of
the fight. But the rest of the buildings were plain in the extreme.
In the midst of the inclosed arena were a block and a post, on the
former of which the accused, if defeated, was to suffer death ; while
to the latter his name was to be affixed by the hands of the
executioner in the event of his non-appearance, a mark of infamy
more degrading than even the pillory or modern outlawry.

The sun shone brightly on the scene ; and, at an early hour, the
troops of the confederated franklins marched to the spot, most of
them wearing the long white frock peculiar to their nation, and
which the carter's smock of the present day nearly resembles.
Beneath it they could conveniently hide their arms, and appear to a
casual observer a peaceful body of serfs and peasants, drawn together
by curiosity to witness the approaching fight. Soon after the parties
began to arrange themselves, the leaders of the enterprise observed,
with secret dissatisfaction, that immediately a party of Saxons
arrived, and took up their position on the ground, an equal number
of Normans, all of whom were well armed, placed themselves beside
them, and, without seeming to do so intentionally, so intersected
them that all possibility of the conspirators acting in concert was
destroyed. Several times they manoeuvred to change positions, but
were as often outmanoeuvred by tiiQ Normans, who, whether by
accident or design, thwarted by their evolutions every attempt
which the Saxons made to unite themselves in one or more compact
bodies.

The only party which presented anything at all like an appearance
of having unity were the followers of Edda, a numerous body of
men, well armed, and commanded by a youthful knight, whose face



was hid by his visor, but whose firm step and active movements
showed him to be in the full pride of strength and manhood.

The Norman nobles were the last who made their appearance
upon the ground ; most of them, as they did so, resigned the
command of their vassals to their esquires, and proceeded to the
castle, where a council had been summoned by the bishop, to beheld
previous to the proceedings in the lists. One by one the Saxon
franklins were sent for on different pretexts ; so that, by the time
Herbert de Lozenga arrived, escorted by a large body of his
followers, under the conduct of George of Erpingham, most of the
leaders, whether Norman or Saxon, were assembled in the great
hall.

Edda, the most powerful chief of the conquered race, walked
by the side of the prelate, who divided his conversation with him
and the red-haired stranger, whose real rank was known only to
himself. Many a knight and vavasor followed in his train, bound
by the tenure of their lands to do him feudal homage. As a
Norman baron, he ranked with the most powerful ; and in his
double capacity of Bishop of Norwich and Abbot of Hulm, with
the richest ecclesiastics in the kingdom ; added to which, his known
favour with the Conqueror, and office of Chancellor, made him one
of the most important personages in the realm, and his influence
was courted and respected by all.

A tall, gaunt man appeared amongst the stragglers in the bishop's
train, the mere sight of whom seemed to excite the indignation of
the crowd ; even the men-at-arms, who escorted him, to protect him
from the insults of the mob, kept at a respectful distance from him,
and laughed whenever a gibe more bitter, or a curse more fierce,
saluted his appearance. It was the city executioner. "Whether
indifference or philosophy rendered him insensible to the degradation
of his position, it might have been difficult to decide ; but he walked
on, amidst the jests, curses, and hooting of the people, with an
impassibility of feature which a Stoic might have envied. He was
clothed in red — the colour of his office — and wore a large black
barret, which rendered the ghastly hue of his features more
apparent ; in his hand he carried a leathern bag, sufficiently
.capacious to contain either the head of a victim or the implements
of his fearful and disgusting office.

Is Saint Peter taking tithe of heads to-day ? " whispered Brenner,
one of the few Saxon leaders who remained upon the ground, " that
he walks with such a collector in his train 1 The headsman is a
bird of evil omen ; ill befalls the purpose or the man whose path he
crosses. Would I had met his sight on any day than this."

Amen ! " replied his companion. " The only consolation is, he
is without his axe. Have you observed," he added, looking
cautiously around to assure himself that no one could overhear
him, " how the Normans flank our men .? I trow there is more of

purpose than of chance in it. I fear we are betrayed, or, at least,
suspected."

Brenner had previously, in his own mind, made the same
observation, but remained silent, not wishing to alarm his companion
by acknowledging his suspicions. At this moment they were
joined by a third party — Armand of the Wold, one of the petty
franklins, compelled by his position to follow blindly in the wake
of his more powerful chief ; a shrewd, keen, calculating man, always
ready to turn with the tide he was too weak to stem. The gloomy
restlessness of his nature showed that he was ill at ease.

Who has seen Herman of the Burg .? " he demanded ; " why is he
absent at such a moment ? For two days he has not appeared
amongst us. I like not this."

The first two speakers confessed that they had neither seen nor
could explain his absence — an avowal followed by immediate silence,
each calculating how far his neighbour might be a partner in the
treason, if any such existed. Brenner was the first to break it.

Most of our party, on one pretext or another, have been summoned
to the castle," whispered the first speaker. " There are invitations
a prudent man always should decline."

Especially an enemy's," observed Armand.

And above all a Norman's. Ill befall the day when they first
set foot on England's happy soil. But look," continued Brenner.
how the bishop lures the noble Edda to the council. I thought his
white hairs covered more wisdom."

Or less treason," muttered Armand.

At this moment the seneschal, wearing his chain and carrying his
wand of office, approached the speakers, and commanded them to
attend the council about to sit in the castle. The summons was
given in the name of the bishop chancellor. As the officer was
attended by a party of men-at-arms, resistance would have been
equally foolish as useless. After a mutual glance, which seemed to
say, "We are fairly caught," they bowed in acquiescence, and
followed their conductor to the council.

The great hall of Norwich Castle Alas lined with men-at-arms, and
a strong body guarded the different doors. All whose rank entitled
them to the entree were freely admitted ; but once there, none bit
the Normans were allowed egress. Whenever a Saxon approached
the entrance, he was respectfully informed that the council was
about to commence, and invited to remain in his place — the tone of
the invitation rendering it equivalent to a command. Thus
suspicion and mistrust were at their height. The absence of Herman
was the subject of many a comment ; nor did the appearance of Odo
of Caen and his brother nobles, in complete armour, tend to
tranquillise the doubts of the conspirators, which at last became so
painful that the clash of arms which announced the arrival of the
bishop sounded as a relief to them ; at least, they would learn the

worst, for the doubt of ill is sometimes more difficult to bear than
even ill confirmed.

As if with an instinctive feeling of hostility, or of an approaching
contest, the two parties had formed into separate groups, engaged in
hurried whispered conversation, when Herbert de Lozenga, with his
train, entered the hall. There was an expression of care upon his
brow, although both step and air were firm as ever. Mirvan raised
his visor as he advanced to meet him.

Welcome, my lord and father," he exclaimed ; " we attend your
summons. Please you, we have business which the sword must
judge, if the accused appears ; if not, the executioner. Let us to the
council, and at once."

The cold, though respectful, tone of the speaker showed that he
looked upon the prelate as his enemy. Indeed, he doubted not but
that it was by his secret contrivance Ulrick, whom he still continued
to regard as his father's murderer, had been so singularly removed
from prison.

Patience, young man ! " replied Herbert. " Is the thirst of blood
so strong within thee, thou canst not wait an hour ? Fear not but
the accused will appear ; my word shall be your gage that he will
meet you."

The young earl bowed respectfully, and pointed to the chair at the
end of the dais for the bishop to take his seat.

Not so," he said, in answer to the mute invitation ; " there is one
amongst us to whom all claims must yield. " Prince," he added,
turning to the stranger, " assume your seat, and let us to the affairs
of moment which detain us."

The appearance of the Conqueror's favourite son produced a varied
feeling in the minds of the assembly. By the Normans he was
greeted with a shout of triumph ; by the Saxons he was received in
sullen silence. They felt that they were betrayed — that the last
hope of shaking off the Conqueror's yoke was lost.

Venerable prelate, and you, noble peers," said the prince, as soon
as he was seated, " our first duty is to inquire into the cause of the
death of our faithful friend, Hugh de Bigod, to avenge his memory,
to track the murderer's steps, if living ; if dead, to consign his name
to infamy and execration. Who are the accusers ? "

I am," exclaimed Mirvan, eagerly advancing.

And I," calmly repeated the bishop.

But whom do you accuse .? " demanded the prince, first addressing
himself to Mirvan.

The man whom I once called my dearest friend ; the man I
would have trusted with more than my life — with honour ; the man
whose soul I once held so pure — I almost blushed at my un worthiness
to call him friend — Ulrick, of what race I know not, but proved by
the word of a noble knight, now absent, to be of gentle blood —
Ulrick, the ward of my lord bishop there," he added, pointing half-scornfully

to the prelate, " whose word e'en now, I pray you a]l
remember, was given for his appearance in the lists to meet the
charge against him."

Fear not, sir earl," interrupted Edda, proudly, " but he will
keep his word."

And you, my lord, whom do you accuse ? " demanded William,
addressing Herbert de Lozenga, whose countenance had never varied
during Mirvan's speech.

Herman of the Burg," he calmly replied.

Several of the Saxons started, for they knew by whose hand the
deceased earl had fallen ; indeed, the murderer had avowed it to
more than one or two ; but on Mirvan the accusation fell like a
thunder-clap. 'Tis true that from his rough, unamiable manner, he
had never liked his kinsman, but he had ever looked upon him as a
man of unblemished honour, and as such would have defended his
reputation with his life. His indignation, therefore, at the accusation
was as unbounded as his astonishment, in which latter sentiment
the Norman nobles, great as Alas their dislike to Herman, shared.

Prince," he exclaimed, " this is a mere mockery of justice ; the
accused retorts on his accuser. I dare not further trust myself to
speak, lest I forget the reverence due to age, to sacred function,
and this royal presence ; but ask him, pray ask him, upon what
grounds he dares accuse my absent kinsman."

You hear," interrogatively observed the prince ; " on what proofs
do you accuse him ? "

On his own confession," solemnly answered the bishop, " witnessed
by these noble peers."

His own confession ! " mechanically repeated the young earl, as
if doubting the evidence of his senses.

Thyself shalt be the judge," continued the prelate, drawing from
his breast the parchment which had been found in the breastplate
of the unhappy Ernulf, and which our readers will doubtless
remember had been attested by the signatures and seals of Odo of
Caen and the Norman nobles on the night of Herman's execution.
The document, which detailed every circumstance, had been written
by the murderer, and given to his esquire, to convey to the assembled
franklins in the caves of Whitlingham, as a still further proof of his
devotion to the cause of Saxon independence. Every word was in
his own handwriting, which Mirvan was well acquainted with, and
witnessed by his arms.

What have I read ? " exclaimed the astonished and horror-stricken
youth, as he let fall the scroll. " If this be true, as I confess it is, I
am indeed doubly unhappy, I have lost my father, and have
wronged my friend."

That word regains him," exclaimed Ulrick, who, on a signal
given by Herbert de Lozenga, entered the hall, and advanced
gracefully to his accuser. " Mirvan," he added, " my heart hath

never done thee wrong ; e'en in my dungeon I accused not thee ;
e'en at the scaffold had not cursed thy name,"

A tear dimmed the eyes of the two friends as they embraced.
Let not the worldling sneer at the confession of their weakness.
Such weakness is more beautiful than strength. Earth hath many a
gem more prized, but none more pure than manly friendship's
honest, priceless tear,

But where," exclaimed Mirvan, '' is the fiend who hath deceived
me, whose hand is stained with my dead father's blood ? Prince
and nobles," ho added, turning towards the dais, " I demand on
Herman of the Burg the judgment of his peers. The felon hath
confessed. The doom, the doom ! I claim the murderer's doom ! "

"' Herman," solemnly answered the bishop, at the same time
taking the speaker by the hand, and leading him to the window,
"can fear no human judgment more ; he hath already passed a
tribunal more awful far than man's. Behold ! " One of the men-at-arms
threw open the window as the prelate spoke, and Mirvan
beheld, with surprise, the executioner in the act of affixing the head
of the assassin on the post in the centre of the lists. For a moment
he gazed upon it with a feeling of fierce satisfaction, which gradually
yielded to a nobler sentiment ; he felt that human justice was
accomplished, and shudderingly withdrew from the hideous spectacle
as the soldier closed the casement. The effect upon the assembled
Saxons was to produce consternation and dismay. Ignorant of the
real cause of the culprit's death, they felt convinced they were
betrayed, and slowly began to disperse, too happy in being permitted
to escape. The Normans suffered their departure unopposed — such
were the instructions they had received ; but the leaders of the
contemplated insurrection were not so fortunate ; they still remained
virtually prisoners in the castle. Shortly afterwards, the countess,
Matilda, and Isabel entered the hall ; and as the subject of Ulrick's
birth was gone into, it is unnecessary to repeat the proofs by which
his rank and claim to Cranfield and the vast inheritance of Edda
were established ; even the Normans confessed themselves satisfied,
and frankly admitted him as their peer amongst them. If the heart
of the acknowledged youth beat high, it was when his eyes encountered
the blushing cheek of Matilda ; if he felt the sentiment of pride, it
was when he grasped the hand of his recovered friend, and felt that
he could claim his friendship upon equal terms.

Herbert de Lozenga approached the seat of the young prince, and
whispered to him —

Your promise, prince ! your promise ! "

William turned uneasily upon his chair, like a man who sought
to escape from something distasteful to him, but in vain ; the calm,
cold eye of the bishop followed his every glance ; he felt that there
was no escape from his plighted word.

Herald," he said, " perform your duty."

The officer advanced into the midst of the hall, and thrice
proclaimed Ulrick Earl of Cranfield, and heir of the Saxon Edda ;
calling upon all who felt disposed to dispute his claims to stand
forth and speak, or remain for ever dumb ! No voice replied to
him. At each pause in the ceremony the prince cast a scrutinising
glance on the young earl, v^^hom the decision stripped of a fair
portion of his large inheritance ; but the heart of Mirvan was too
generous to entertain any selfish feeling. William, therefore, had
no choice left but to proceed.

The prelate and Edda led the newly-acknowledged noble to the
prince's chair ; who, taking his hands between his own, received
his oath of allegiance ; and solemnly confirmed, as regent of the
kingdom, and his father's representative, the act of investiture ; the
prelate, as he did so, pronouncing aloud " Amen ! "

And now, Saxons and Normans," exclaimed William, " a few
words with each. To you," he said, turning to the discouraged
franklins, " your plots are known ; your treasons all unveiled ; you
are here within our judgment-hall, surrounded by our faithful
barons and our loyal troops ; the block within the lists ; the
headsman ready at our call. What ransom can ye offer for jour
lives ? "

There was a silence ; the Normans gazed sternly upon their rivals,
who felt that they were powerless within their hands ; and each
internally cursed bitterly the memory of him by whom they had
been deluded to their ruin.

The prince enjoyed their confusion, for he was no generous
enemy, and again demanded, in a tone of taunting mockery, which
displayed the natural cruelty of his disposition, and augured ill for
the future —

What ransom, Saxons, for jour lives ? "

Thy princely word," exclaimed the bishop, anxious to end the
scene.

And your intercession, my good lord," continued William,
recalled by the grave tone of the speaker's voice to the prudence of
conciliating the conquered race, as a means to his own accession
to the Throne. " Franklins," he added, " you are pardoned ; your
forfeit lands and lives are spared upon the payment of such fines as
we hereafter shall impose. But remember, 'tis the last time that
Mercy speaks ; be wiser for the future, and tempt the lion's wrath
no more, lest he should turn and rend ye."

And for the future," said Herbert de Lozenga, advancing to the
centre of the hall, •' let discord end between the Norman and Saxon
race ; let hostile blood unite to heal the wounds which long have
drained this war-divided land. Lady," he added, advancing and
taking Matilda by the hand, " this is a bond would prove a pledge
of unity more strong than Saxon force or Norman steel could break
a bond of peace and love. Read I aright that blush ? "

Matilda turned from the impassioned gaze of her lover, who
looked as if life and death hung upon her reply, to read her brother's
will, whose consent alone could ratify her union.

The generous Mirvan knew too well his sister's heart not to
interpret its unspoken wishes. First embracing Ulrick, he led him
to the prelate, saying as he did so —

Father, thy wisdom interprets our unspoken wishes ; complete
thy holy purpose."

Thus, then," resumed the prelate ; " I do betroth ye. May
Heaven bless the union of two hearts formed by their virtues for
each other."

Devoutly did the countess and the venerable Edda join in the
benediction upon the last descendant of their ancient race ; and
every voice within the hall, save one, joined in the shout, " Hail to

the Lord of Cranfield ! Hail to his promised bride ! "

« » * # *

On the evening of the important day on which the scenes we have
endeavoured to describe took place, William had retired to his
chamber in the castle, for he had become the guest of the
unsuspicious earl, and was arraying himself for the approaching
banquet.

Robert of Artois, who had long been in his confidence, was
standing near a table, covered with open caskets full of jewel-work,
and which supported the rude mirror in which the prince was
complacently contemplating his person — for, like most plain men,
he was excessively vain. His hasty, snatch manner showed that
he was either discontented or ill at ease — his companion could not
tell which, but waited patiently for the enigma he had undoubtedly
been summoned to hear.

Normans ! " muttered the prince, " Normans ! "We are no longer
worthy of the name. The hound hath changed places with the
deer ! We raise the head we ought to tread on ! Ah, Robert," he
added, pretending to see his companion for the first time, " what
thickest thou of this goodly marriage, this coupling of the carrion
raven with the generous falcon's blood ? We had better all turn
Capuchin, and preach on Christian charity. Our swords are useless
now, unless we turn them into hooks to reap with. We shall soon,
good Robert, be no longer masters in the land we won."

Not if your highness wishes to prevent the knot the holy bishop
fancies he has tied, Norman hearts and hands may still be found
asking no better warrant for the deed than the expression of your
royal will. Speak but the word, and it is done."

Mayest thou ? " said William, turning suddenly round, and fixing
a scrutinising glance upon him, as if to read his very soul ; for long
habit of dissimulation in himself had taught him to suspect the
sincerity of others. The ambitious noble met his gaze, and in an
instant they understood each other, so prompt is the intelligence of

guilt. " But how to be accomplished ? " demanded the prince?
leading him to propose the crime he feared to ask him.

Remove the bridegroom," coolly answered his companion ;
*' that were the easiest way to solve the riddle."

No ; that were dangerous. Let the clown mate him With some
Saxon wench, and hold his lands in peace — at least," he added, " for
the present. Lozenga loves him like a son, and I have no wish to
play my future sceptre against his pastoral staff. His is a temper
not to be trifled with. Wouldst thou believe it, Robert ? The proud
priest threatened that he would send me to my half-witted brother
if I presumed to cross his path again ; nay, dared to vaunt his vassal
line as equal to my own."

The ambitious traitor ! " exclaimed Robert of Artois ; " he must
be silenced. Such men are dangerous."

Let him rest ; he is as much beyond our reach as Ulrick is
beneath it. The prelate and myself, we understand each other.
Whilst I act with what he is pleased to call justice and conciliation,
he will not oppose om father's disposition in our favour. Let me
but once securely feel the crown upon my brow, fear not but I will
reckon with him fully for this day. The dotard dreamt not that,
with every threat, he aimed an arrow at my brother's life — curse on
the chance which made him born before me ! "

Why not, then, secure the bride ? " demanded the ready
panderer, who more than suspected the cause of the speaker's
humour, well knowing how susceptible he was to the thrall of
beauty, and how reckless by what means he gratified his licentious
passions.

Thou hast hit my very thought," said the prince, with a smile of
approbation ; " but how may this be done ? "

Nothing more easy."

Explain thyself."

This very night the noble maidens propose to attend our Lady's
shrine, where prayers are nightly offered up for the repose of Earl
de Bigod's soul. They are too coy to grace your highness's banquet
with their presence. What if some able fowler spread the net, and
cage the birds on their return ? "

Where to find such a friend ? "

I'll be that friend," replied Robert. " Your highness knows
that I would peril body as well as soul to serve your pleasures. My
castle at Filby is but three hours' ride ; it hath ere now contained
as fair a prize as these sweet piping dames. Besides," he added,
the distance is so short you might yourself visit my stronghold,
whenever charity inclined your heart to solace the lone
captive."

A smile of mutual understanding followed, and the prince and
his unworthy favourite separated ; the former to ravish hollo-w
courtesies where he meditate the foulest wrong ; the latter to

arrange the treacherous snare in which he hoped to entangle the
unguarded steps of trusting innocence.

The banquet, after the fashion of the times, waxed rough and
boisterous in the hall of the old castle. Never had the fickle
"William seemed in a more gracious mood ; twice had he pledged to
the union of Ulrick and Matilda in the circling cup, calling on
Saxon and Norman hearts to join him in the toast. All were
fascinated with his open manner and seeming sincerity ; and all,
save one, deceived,,by them. Herbert de Lozenga had watched his
impassioned glances when he beheld Matilda in the hall — the look
which followed her retiring footsteps ; and, although he anticipated
no attempt at outrage, he determined to have an eye upon him. As
the banquet proceeded, his suspicions were still further strengthened
by the look of triumph which flashed from his fierce eye whenever
the maiden's name became the theme of conversation.

Amongst the minstrels who occupied the gallery opposite the dais,
was Hellaa, the Saxon — admitted by all who loved the joyous science
to be the chief of the all but extinct bardic tribe. Many doubted,
indeed, if he were even Christian, so devoted did he appear to the
old superstitions and traditions of his race, so intense was his hatred
of the conquerors. It had needed all the eloquence of Edda, whom
he venerated as one of the last who shared in the blood of Hengist,
to induce him to be present at the banquet ; nor was it till after he
had been repeatedly called for that he descended into the hall with
his magic harp to sing before the assembly. So great was his renown,
so intense the expectation of the Normans, few of whom had ever
heard his song, that even the voices of the noisiest were hushed ere
the gifted strain broke forth —

'WTiat spell can consecrate the sword 1
Not priestly prayer, or kingly word ;
Nor e'en the deeper spell which lies
In woman's wondrous, sunlit eyes ;
No ! nor the minstrel's verse of flame,
A nation's shout, the breath of fame,
Can yet the holy spell afford
To consecrate the warrior's sword.

But when drawn for broken laws,
In nature's right he sternly draws,

When liberty expiring cries, *

And wrongs from hill and valley rise,
The blood by tyrants rudely shed,
A nation's tears for freedom find,
These, these the holy spell afford
To consecrate the warrior's sword."

The few Saxons who were present hung their heads in shame ;
to them it was like the song of their captivity. The Normans heard
the strain in gloomy silence ; it sounded like a reproach upon their
tyranny and misrule.

Thou hast chosen a strange theme for our banquet, friend ! "
exclaimed the prince ; " but though our ears are nice, thy shrill must
not go unrewarded."

He took from his neck a chain of gold, of no great value, and
sent it by his page to the aged bard, who received it with a courtly
reverence, although he answered with a mocking tongue —

The praise of princes is our noblest guerdon. Gentle page, it
must not be said that Hellaa was ungrateful to the bearer of so precious
a gift ; wear this," he added, taking from his own neck a chain
whose value more than doubled the Norman's, and which he hung
carelessly round the neck of the youth ; " and sometimes think
upon the poor bard's gift." So saying, he directed his harp-bearer
to take up the instrument, and with a stately step left the hall.

At a signal from the bishop, the Norman minstrels sang the praise
of Rolls, and the glories of his race ; the nobles listening to the
exciting strain, and in their enthusiasm forgot the aged Saxon and
his song.

For the third time, with a flushed brow, William arose from his
seat to give forth the hollow pledge of amity and peace ; when an
alarm was heard without, indite seneschal, bleeding and unheeded,
rushed into the midst of the assembly. All started at the sight, and
the hand of many a knight was laid upon his sword.

Speak," demanded the bishop ; " what has befallen ? "

To arms, nobles and knights ! " exclaimed the faithful officer.
Returning from the cathedral, the noble ladies, Isabel and Matilda,
have been carried off ; their escort was too feeble to protect them,"

The eyes of Mirvan and Ulrick remained riveted upon the speaker,
as if they scarcely comprehended the intelligence, so completely
were they stunned by the blow. The prelate's searching glance was
fixed upon the prince, who quailed beneath it.

Doubtless by Saxons," he stammered.

By Normans, noble prince — by Normans ! I knew too well the
taste of Norman steel to be deceived, despite their Saxon dress. I'll
swear their brands were Norman."

William scowled upon the officer with a look of hate. The sturdy
soldier, conscious of his integrity, met his gaze unmoved. While
the nobles were busy in consultation, Herbert de Lozenga drew the
commander of his troops, George of Erpingham, aside, and whispered
something in his ear. Whatever was the nature of the communication,
it evidently surprised the stalwart knight, for, for the first time in
his life, he hesitated to obey. The rapid conversation which followed
removed, however, his objections ; for, touching his sword, in sign
of fidelity, he withdrew. The bishop, instead of following his
example, concealed himself behind the floating arras, with which
the walls of the banquet-hall were hung. At the same moment
Hellaa, the bard, entered the assembly, and approaching Ulrick with
a stately step, exclaimed —

Thy sword ! thy sword ! The wolf is in thy fold ! The vulture
bears the trembling dove to its dark nest ! Last of a race I love !
why stances thou idly here ? — to horse ! Let manly deeds answer
unmanly outrage ! Strike for thy country's Wrongs, thy outraged
love, or see thy bride become the Norman's scorn ! "

All the nobles present, Saxons as well as Normans, deeply felt
the outrage, and rushed into the chamber, calling to arms as they
did so ; the alarm bell sent forth its deep, loud note, and added to
the horror of the scene. The treacherous prince, the contriver of
the cruel scheme, paced the rush-strewn floor, triumphant in his
villainy, and, as he thought, alone. His meditations were soon
interrupted by Robert of Artois, who, having succeeded in his
expedition, had thrown off his disguise, and returned to the castle,
lest his absence should be remarked ; leaving his followers, long
accustomed to such deeds of violence, to conduct the prisoners to
his stronghold of Filby.

Thou art a bold falconer," whispered the prince ; " thou hast
struck quarry fairly. Hadst thou silenced yon prating seneschal, all
had been unsuspected. Despite your followers' disguise, he swears
they are Normans."

*' Let him swear ; oaths cannot harm us, prince. I must away to
join in the pursuit, lest I should be suspected. In the morning
take your departure as if for London. Once beyond the city,
dismiss your train, and turn your horse's head to Filby, where thou
wilt find the sweetest bird that ever pined within its iron cage.
Thou knowest the way to tame her"'

"With these words the ready panderer bowed and withdrew.
"William was about to follow his example when the prelate, quitting
his concealment, boldly confronted him. The tyrant saw in an
instant that he was discovered. For a few moments they stood
gazing on each other — the countenance of the prince pale with fear
and confusion, that of the bishop full of contempt.

So," exclaimed the latter, " this is the way thy royal word is
kept ! Thou hast broken thine oath, outraged the roof which
shelters thee, risked plunging the land in civil war, to gratify thy
passions. "What prevents that I proclaim thy treason, and yield
thee to the Saxons ? "

Thine own ambition, priest," doggedly answered "William,

My ambition ! "

*' Once a king, thou knowest this hand can praise thee to a height
but second to my own — the primate's envied throne."

Vain man ! " replied Herbert, " the hermit's cell would please
me better than the mitred stall. Power is worthless when the heart
is ashes. I came not to implore, but to command thee. Resign
thy victims, and I may consent once more to spare thee the brand
of public scorn — to shield thee from the avenging swords of those
whose honour thou wouldst' stain. Decide !"

Never ! " exclaimed the prince, foaming with rage. " I love the
fair Matilda, and rather vrould forego the Crown itself than yield
her beauties to thy favoured minion. Thou hast heard my answer."

But mine is yet unspoken," as proudly replied the bishop.
For thy brave father's sake I would have spared thee ; but now
the will of Heaven and justice must be done."

He advanced towards the doors which opened from the banquet
hall, as if to quit the apartment or to summon aid.

The baffled tyrant, perceiving his design, threw himself between,
and drawing his sword, held it levelled at the prelate's breast, to
impede his departure. For a moment they stood like the stag and
hound at bay, gazing on each other in silence — the churchman
calm and stern, the prince trembling with passion and excitement,
You pass not on your life ! " he cried.

Advance one step," said Herbert, drawing up his person to its
stately height, " lay but a finger on my sacred robe, and I will bind
thee in a spell shall paralyse thy soul ! Not to thy honour or thy
sense of justice do I now appeal. Thou lost to every tie of honour
and humanity, thy terrors are my safety. The brand of Europe
and the Church's curse thou dearest not meet. Fool ! — coward —
villain ! " he added, as the sword of William gradually inclined
towards the ground, " I scorn, deride thy vain attempt. Back,
ruffian, back — I pass thee or I perish ! "

With his eye sternly fixed upon the prince, the prelate moved
tovv^ards the door. Thrice the weapon was raised, but its point
was as often turned aside when the glance of Herbert de Lozenga
encountered his. With frantic rage, he dashed it to the ground,
muttering as he did so —

•' 'Tis true ; I dare not take thy life."

William 'had already determined in his own mind the line of
conduct to pursue. Once freed from his accuser's presence, he
would mount his horse and ride to Filby. There he doubted not
but he might defy the outraged lovers and their friends ; for what
Norman chief would march against him when once the royal
banner was displayed ? Herbert knew too well the risk to Matilda's
honour to leave him even for a moment alone. Advancing to the
door, he merely waved his hand, when George of Erpingham and
a body of about sixty men, all completely armed, and wearing their
visors down, entered the banquet hall. William trembled at the
sight, and involuntarily looked around to find his sword.

•' Wouldst murder me ? " he cried, glaring on the prelate.

The bishop deigned not to reply, but addressing himself to George
of Erpingham, who awaited his orders, said —

Danger and treason are abroad. His highness goes to my poor
palace ; escort him thither with all due honour ; let none approach
him, or exchange a single word, I rely on thy fidelity and knightly
faith in this."

*' Traitors ! " exclaimed William, " know ye not who I am ?
Dearly shall ye rue this outrage on your prince ! Rather arrest yon
plotting priest ! Obey my orders, and I swear, e'en by my honour,
that riches, favours beyond ambition's dreams, shall recompense the
deed ! "

Honour ! " interrupted Herbert, contemptuously ; " does not the
word blister thy tongue, palsy thy craven heart ? The violator of
innocence, the perjurer, and the robber dares talk of honour ! Prince,
spare thy eloquence ; thou canst not corrupt thy guard ; they speak
no Norman tongue. Away with him ! "

*' Should he resist ? " demanded Erpingham, through his visor.

Force must be employed."

Should he escape ? "

The bishop fixed his glance upon the prisoner, and paused ere
he replied, wishing the import of his speech to be truly understood.


Level thine arc[uebus, and strike him dead."

With these last words he quitted the apartment ; and William,
seeing that resistance was in vain, resigned himself to his fate. His
guards closed around him, and conducted him to the bottom of the
staircase, where a close litter was in waiting. For an instant he
hesitated, and looked around, as if to summon assistance. None
appeared ; and the few torches held by the soldiers showed him the
arquebus in the hands of the mysterious knight.

Inwardly cursing his fate, and the being who had crossed it, he
entered the litter, and in less than an hour found himself a close
prisoner in the loftiest tower of the bishop's palace.

CHAPTER IX.

On their arrival at Filby the fair captives were conducted to a
strongly-barred chamber, in the centre of the keep, and left by their
ruffian captors to themselves. For a while they sat on the rude
couch — the only attempt at comfort in their prison — in speechless
dismay. So sudden was the transition from happiness to despair,
that both were equally stunned by the blow. To all their entreaties
for an explanation, and tempting offers for freedom, their conductors
had maintained a sullen silence, and imagination conjured up a
thousand terrors more fearful than even the dark reality of their
fate.

Isabel, from the natural buoyancy of her disposition, was the first
to recover something like composure, " Do not weep, coz — do not
weep," she exclaimed, endeavouring to soothe the wretched Matilda,

K 2

who sat beside her, clasping her hand in hers. " Perhaps we are
only captured for the sake of extorting ransom ; we are no village
maidens, to be spirited from our homes without an effort being
made to succour us. Many a lance ere this is laid in rest, and many
a pennon given to the winds. Ulrick and Mirvan will search the
world bit they will find us ; nor will Odo of Caen tenderly bear
this insult to the sister of his affianced bride. Trust me, that many
an hour of future joy will well repay us for the present hour. Dearly
the Saxon ruffians shall repent this insult ! "

These are no Saxon outlaws," replied Matilda, struggling for
firmness as she spoke ; " but Normans, girl. This blow is struck by
those of our own race. Didst thou not mark the armour of the
knight who headed the foul enterprise ? "

Normans ! sayst thou, coz ? Impossible ! they must be Saxons ;
who else would dare assail De Bigod's daughter ? "

Matilda mournfully shook her head in token of denial. Accustomed
from infancy to the military peculiarities which distinguished the
two races, her practised eye was not to be deceived ; she had
recognised the Norman chief in Robert of Artois, despite his simple
visor and disguise, and could notroot the strong conviction from her
soul.

Normans ! " again iterated Isabel ; " what can be their motive —
plunder or revenge ? "

Whom have we ever wronged, to provoke the latter ? " said
Matilda. "And who would dare avow the las mess of an act like
this, by demanding of Ulrick or my brother ransom for their brides ?
No," she added bitterly ; " I fear worse outrage yet."

Isabel bounded from her seat like the fawn startled by the hunter's
step. Her cousin's words revealed a danger more fearful than her
terrors had yet painted ; but her courage rose with the peril :
indignation filled her heart ; and although her cheek was pale,
insulted virtue flashed from her speaking eyes.

Let not the ruffian leader of this enterprise hope to find in a
daughter of my race," she cried, " a reed, whom the storm of
violence can bend, or captivity appal ; there is a refuge which even
insult must respect, and vice cannot approach."

True," replied Matilda ; "■ death — honour's last shield, and
virtue's sure defence."

The word sounded dismally in the vast and dimly lighted
chamber where they sat. It was evident, from the preparations
made to receive them, that they were expected, for a coarse repast
had been prepared, mingled, however, with some degree of luxury ;
for although the viands were of the plainest description, the flagons
and drinking cups were of silver, then only used in the monasteries
and castles of the nobles.

Stay," said Isabel, whose eye had been mechanically resting on
the ill-assorted banquet, and who, struck by a sudden idea, advanced



towards the table, " this may, perchance, afford some clue to our vile
gaoler's name." She caught up the massive flagon as she spoke, and
advanced with it to one of the torches stuck in an iron sconce upon
the wall. The light fell upon a shield rudely graved upon the
precious metal ; its blazon was a bend ingrained, surmounted by a
lion's head. Both started as they gazed upon it, for they recognised
at once the well-known arms of Robert of Artois. To Isabel of
Bayeux this was an additional caiise of fear, for she well knew the
desperate character of the bad man who bore it. Twice had she
rejected his unwelcome suit ; the last time with a contempt she
well knew had deeply stung his pride. Rather would she have
found herself the captive of the vilest chief who lived by petty
plunder than in the power of that bold, revengeful man.

Matilda," she cried, clinging to her cousin, and giving way to
her not unnatural terrors ; " thou hast read the fearful mystery
aright ; these are no Saxon plunderers ; ransom is not their object,
for twice hath Robert of Artois dared to pollute my ear with his false
tale of love. But I am rightly served," she added bitterly. " Why
did I not unfold his insolence to those who would have crushed
the hateful serpent ere it had twined its venomed folds around
me .? "

It was now Matilda's turn to soothe her affrighted cousin, whom
the discovery of her captor's name had quite unnerved ; like most
persons of a quiet and retiring nature, she possessed that latent
courage which rises with the danger of occasion, and in the deep
recesses of her innocent heart she found a strength where late was
nought but timidity and weakness.

Courage, courage," she cried, repressing her own tears, to assuage
her companion's, " all hope hath not yet abandoned us ; though,
human eyes may fail to penetrate our prison, the eye of Heaven is
on us, and doubt not, coz, but our guardian angels watch us even
here. Soon may my brother's banner circle round these walls, and
lay their towers in the dust. Mirvan will come and find thee."

Dead ! " said Isabel, interrupting her ; " for if he come not soon,
terror too sure will kill me. Matilda," she added, throwing her
arms suddenly round her cousin's neck, " by our girlish friendship,
our sister love, the tie of blood between us, promise me one thing,
or my brain will turn, and reason totter on her seated throne."

Name it, dearest girl."

Let not the ruffian tear us from each other ; while with thee,
I can endure his threats ; alone, I should go mad. Thou," she
added, passionately, " canst have nought to fear ; I am alone the
victim. Had not thy ill-starred fortune held thee to my side,
thou hadst escaped this last extreme of fate. ' Tis I who have
undone thee. "Wilt thou not promise me .? "

I will," replied Matilda, willing to soothe her ; " nothing but
violence shall tear thee from me. Should force be used ? "

Kill me," exclaimed Isabel ; " arm thine hand with Roman
courage, and strike me dead before thee. By thy brother's love,
thine own unsullied purity of soul, thy house's honour, and thy
virgin truth, pledge me to this."

There was a mutual pause ; Matilda eyed the no longer trembling
girl, who stood erect before her, and read the sincerity of her request
in her firm glance and look of almost prayer. The request was
terrible to one of her gentle nature — terrible from the love she bore
the tender victim — terrible from the danger which surrounded
them.

Calmly she advanced from the couch on which they both had
been seated towards the table, and taking up a small, sharp knife,
concealed it in her bosom. Isabel saw the action and understood it.
A slight flush suffused her pallid cheek, but passed as quickly as it
came ; her only comment was a kiss upon the brow of the heroic
girl. Matilda understood it.

It is, indeed, a terrible and last resort," she said ; " but should
all else fail, I will be near thee ; fear not, Isabel, by our mutual love,
living, the villain's arms shall never clasp thee."

The exhausted girl, overpowered by the violence of her emotions,

sank into the arms of her courageous cousin, in whose promise she

beheld her last resource against dishonour or a life of misery.
« * * *

The same night Herbert de Lozenga was seated in his oratory.
He had much to reflect upon, for his own position was not without
considerable danger. In arresting the person of his monarch's
favourite son, and probably future sovereign, he had irretrievably
committed himself with that bold, bad man, whose cruel nature
never forgave an injury or a slight. But still he quailed not ;
personal consideration had never yet influenced him in the path of
duty, and he was determined to pursue it, regardless of all
consequence to himself. Ulrick's happiness was dearer to him than
his life, and he resolved at all hazards to secure it.

It was necessary, therefore, that his dangerous prisoner should be
securely watched ; and he determined to trust his guardianship to
Walter Tyrrel, a young knight who had long been attached to his
service, and over whose birth, like Ulrick's, a cloud of mystery
hung.

In the age at which we write, it was by no means uncommon for
the great nobles and prelates to attach to their households esquires
and knights of gentle birth, who were trained to arms or letters, as
their respective tastes or inclinations might incline them. Raising
his silver call, he summoned a lay brother to his presence, and
directed him to find the youthful knight in question.

Yes ! " he exclaimed, " Tyrrel will be his surest guard. The
youth whom he would deprive of his inheritance, whose life long
ere this he would have tak(»i had he but dreamt of his existence.

Poor boy ! " he added ; " cruelly he crossed thy sainted mother's
path. May he prove less dangerous to her son."

The young knight entered the oratory as he concluded, flattered
by the unusual confidence, for he was not only ambitious in his
nature, but reckless in the means by which he advanced his fortunes.
From his cold and selfish nature, the prelate had never loved him ;
still he was far from suspecting the deep treachery and heartless
vices Which his calculation hid from even his observance. Perhaps
the kind man's heart was too full of love for his first protege to
interest him deeply in the second ; for Ulrick was to him even as a
son.

Tyrrel," said the bishop, " I am about to bestow on thee a mark
of confidence — the precursor, chance, of future favour. Thou art
not ignorant that I have an inmate here — something between a guest
antea prisoner."

I am aware," answered Sir Walter ; " my leader, Sir George of
Erpingham, told me as much when he arrived."

Know you his rank ? "

*' I guess it, my good lord."

Then you must know how necessary 'tis that unusual ward be
kept. To you I confide the custody of his person ; guard him With
all honour, but as strictly as you would watch your mother's fame
and own inheritance. Perhaps," he added, with a smile, " you may
one day thank me for his capture, and the trust I now repose in you.
You lino where he is lodged ? "

In the eastern tower, beyond the cloisters. He must be skilled
indeed who could break prison there."

Go," continued the prelate, at the same time giving him a ring.
George of Erpingham, on the sight of this, will resign his post ;
send him to me, for I have further employment for his zeal.
Remember, 3'oung man, those who would gain my confidence must
win it by fidelity and honour. Farewell."

Walter Tyrrel quitted the oratory with a gratified air, which
resulted less from pride in the confidence reposed in him, than the
conviction that it was something which might be turned to his own
advantage and aggrandisement, before which honour and breach of
trust were idle names. Besides, he never loved the prelate. He
had long been jealous of his partiality for Ulrick, whose elevation
galled him, and whose agony, on the abduction of his bride, he had
seen with secret pleasure. The opportunity of thwarting them Alas
too tempting to be thrown away.

My lord bishop plays a daring game," he muttered, as he
directed his steps towards the tower where Prince William was
confined ; " others, perchance, may play as bold a one. ' Tis not
the first time both gaoler and captive have been missing. If the
Red Norman bid but high enough, the path to liberty lays straight
before him. I will not ba\ilk my fortune."

STANFIELD HALL.

So saying, the newly-appointed guard entered the chamber in
the lower basement of the tower, where George of Erpingham and
a company of his men were keeping watch. At the sight of the
prelate's signet the brave old soldier resigned the command to the
treacherous knight, and withdrew to his own quarters, to remove
his armour, ere he sought the bishop. Herbert de Lozenga had
not been long alone when the lay brother whom he had despatched
in search of Tyrrel returned to inform him that a pilgrim from
Normandy was at the gate, and demanded to speak with him.

Not now," replied the superior ; " not now. My mind is
occupied by thoughts of too much moment. Give him hospitality
for the night ; in the morning I will see him. Tell him this, and
speak him welcome in my name."

I told him so," replied the old monk, " I told him so ; but he
was obstinate, called me a prating dotard, and swore by Rollo that
he would see you, holy father, ere he slept ; then called for wine,
and ordered Father Felix to bring him a manchet, as if he were in
an hotel, instead of a community of Christian priests."

Quick," exclaimed Herbert, starting fi-om his seat, " conduct him
to our presence instantly. If it be as I suspect," he murmured, after
the old man quitted the oratory, astonished at the vehemence of his
superior's manner, " the game is in my hands, and Ulrick, Avenged
boy, the tyrant shall himself restore to thee thy bride, or pay his
crimes with forfeit of his crown."

The moment the lay brother ushered in the stranger, Herbert de
Lozenga recognised, despite his disguise, the eldest son of the
Conqueror, whose fate has been the theme of many a minstrel's
song ; who, born to inherit a crown, passed the greater portion of his
life within a prison ; whose courage was always rendered useless
by his recklessness, and who consoled himself for the loss of liberty
and power by the wine-cup and the song.

Prince, in the name of every saint, what brings you to this land,"
said the ecclesiastic, " where your path is beset with perils ? Know
you not that your father hath decided to bestow England on your
brother William, leave yoiT, as eldest born, the ancient fief of
Normandy, and that many of the nobles approve this disposition of
the crown ? "

Hang the cro^Ti," replied the impetuous Robert ; " if England
boasts no better wine than the lean draught your cellarer set before
me, William may govern it for me ; but, perhaps," he added, bursting
into a jocose laugh, "where the charity is large the wine is weak.
I'll Ravager a hundred pieces, my good lord, none of the same vintage
ever graced your table : were the fat and pious brother who served
me to drink no other until Easter, he would require a few yards
less of broad-cloth in his frock."

The draught shall be amended, prince," said Herbert ; " but
answer me my question : what brings you here ? "

Caprice ! Caprice ! the whim of an heir who rides over his
estate incog., while its possessor recites his last Confiteor. Our father
keeps his Court at Rouen ; but we know, from a sure hand, his health
breaks fast. Like the dying bear, 'tis dangerous to approach him ;
he hath already hanged two physicians, and engaged a third, an
unbelieving Jew."

What is his malady ? " demanded Herbert de Lozenga, anxiously,
for he foresaw the conflict which would probably follow the
Conqueror's death.

The same which ails your wine," replied the prince, with a
heartless laugh ; " he hath too much water in his barrel. The French
king asked when his vassal brother would be brought to bed : 'twas
a good jest, but must be dearly paid."

How so ? "

Our choleric father swore to be churched in Notre Dame, with
twenty thousand lances in his train. He is the man at least to keep
his word ; he hath already wasted the Seine with fire and sword, as
first-fruits of his oath."

And for a jest," exclaimed the bishop, " an idle jest, spoken in
an hour of mirth, when wine had tempted reason, and the
unguarded lips utter the wayward fancies of the brain, blood must
be shed, houses desolated, cities destroyed, and kind hearts broken !
Earth ! earth ! " he added mournfully, " such are thy rulers ! "

Earth soon will count one more and less," interrupted Robert,
who contemplated his father's approaching death with anything
but dissatisfaction ; indeed, the conduct of the former had been
sufficiently harsh towards him to break all tie of blood between
them. He had thwarted him in his dearest wish ; and, urged by
his partiality for the unworthy "William, would have stripped his
elder son even of his inheritance of Normandy, had not the consent
of the King of France, as suzerain, been necessary — a consent, he
well knew, it would be hopeless to solicit, the policy of the French
Court being to disunite the Crowns of England and Normandy :
their descending on one head rendered the ducal vassal more
powerful than his master.

Prince," said Herbert, gravely, " Heaven only knows whether
thou art come for good or evil ; but thou art come in an eventful
hour — thy brother is an inmate of my palace."

Robert heard the information with evident surprise, and for a
moment eyed the speaker keenly, as if to read his very heart. The
examination was apparently satisfactory ; for he almost instantly
resumed his former expression of careless confidence, and demanded,
as if it were the most important circumstance in the world to him —

A guest ? "

No," gravely answered his host. .

A prisoner ? "
Yes."

The prince's reply was a loud, careless laugh ; the jest seemed to
strike him more than the advantage to be drawn from it, so
contradictory was his character : at one moment all energy, at the
next indifference to everything ; capable of conceiving a bold
design, but wanting the perseverance to insure success. Well had
his mother, the Queen Matilda, designated him as the weathercock
of impulse and of — folly she might have added, and of fortune
also,

And so you have caged the wolf," he cried — " or rather the fox,
I should say, designating our royal brother from the colour of his
hair. Leave a priest alone to bait a snare ! How fell he into it ? "

Prince," answered Herbert, with offended dignity, " I am not
one of those who traffic in pitfalls or in snares. Your brother is my
prisoner, to answer for a cruel outrage on a maiden's liberty ; openly
I arrested him, openly I'll guard him, till the outrage is atoned and
the lady free. But come," he added, " the time is dark with import,
and I have matter which concerns you deeply. Lay for a while that
reckless levity of heart aside, and let us speak like men who watch
the game of life."

Willingly, my lord," replied the prince, brought to something
like seriousness by the prelate's tone ; " but answer me first one
question — the boy whom I confided to your care — speak — lives he
yet ? — and may I not behold him ? "

He does. His training hath not shamed his birth. Fifteen
months are passed since the sword of my good lord of Kent hath
dubbed him knight ; he hath remained ever since attached to our
Court ; e'en now he guards my prisoner in his tower,"

A singular smile, half of mischief and half fun, passed over the

still handsome features of the Norman prince at the intelligence, but

it soon passed away ; and motioning to the prelate to precede him,

he followed to a small recess at the back of the oratory, where we

will leave them to converse on business of deep import, the result of

which may soon become apparent to our readers.

*****

The first beams of the rising sun had already tinged the east with
gold, and gilded the graceful spire and turrets of the cathedral, as
Ulrick and Mirvan, attended by most of the nobles who had been
present at the banquet, returned from their unsuccessful pursuit.
The men looked jaded, and their horses worn ; still not a single
complaint was heard ; for rough and careless as the soldiers were,
they sympathised with the despair of their two leaders, who, pale as
marble, and with bloodshot eyes, gazed hopelessly upon each other.
Robert of Artois, the unsuspected author of the deed, had been one
of the foremost in the pursuit, carefully directing the pursuers, by
his well-feigned zeal, far from the path they should have taken. As
the various stragglers came slowly up before the castle, he reined
his tired steed, and said, " Farewell, my friends. Should chance

discover the author of this outrage, which fills each heart with rage
and every honest tongue with scorn, send bit a glove to Filby in
token of your need, and in an hour my banner shall be spread to
meet you. This present hour business of import calls me home.
That once despatched, I am again your servant."

Thanks ! " exclaimed the broken-hearted Ulrick ; "he is a friend
indeed who shares a sorrow as if it were his own. On your return
send out your men to scour the country round. Ill fill his gauntlet
with gold who brings intelligence of my lost bride, or names the
villain who has wrought this mischief ; dearly the heartless ruffian
should abide it."

Courageous as Robert of Artois naturally was, he quailed beneath
the expression of Ulrick's eye as he pronounced the threat. A desire
to find himself within his stronghold of Filby seized upon him.
Raising his helmet, therefore, in sign of adieu, he cried —

Doubt not, noble youths, all that friendship can achieve shall be
attempted ; my men shall spare nor spur nor rein till your lost
treasure's found."

Hellaa, the bard, who had, despite his vast age, been one of the first
to mingle in the pursuit, cast a suspicious glance on Robert of Artois
as he rode off. Odo of Caen observed it ; he had not forgiven the
bard his song, which seemed indirectly to call upon the Saxons to
throw off the Conqueror's yoke, and to censure the misrule of the
Norman race. He gladly seized, therefore, the opportunity of venting
his spleen, which the unsuccessful result of the pursuit had still
further tended to increase.

Sir Saxon," he cried, "■ thou lowest not our brother of Artois.
Heaven defend me from as dark a greeting as thy look conveys. In
what hath he displeased thee 1 "

His deeds," coolly answered the aged Saxon.
"Humph!" replied the questioner; "tis difficult for Norman
deeds to please a Saxon's judgment ; but what particular deed of
Robert of Artois hath merited the harshness of such judgment ? Sir
bard, explain me that."

His share in this night's outrage."

All started, and even Odo of Caen was staggered by the coolness
and firmness of the reply. Ulrick and Mirvan gathered with the
rest of the nobles round the old man, and eagerly demanded upon
what proofs he grounded his assertion. Some, who saw in it only a
splenetic attempt to sow dissension between the Saxon and Norman
chiefs, cried shame ; and had not the bereaved lovers and several of
their friends drawn their swords, the old bard would have rued his
temerity in daring to accuse one of the most powerful of the Norman
chiefs. After much quarrelling and confusion, Mirvan, whose office
of Marshal of the Angles gave him most authority amongst them, at
last obtained something like silence.

The wisdom of age," he cried, " is not slightly to be contemned ;

let Hellaa be heard ! First I demand upon what proof he founds
his accusation — an accusation monstrous if false, and terrible if
true."

Upon no proof," replied Hellaa ; " but upon "

The rest of his speech "was lost in the clamour which the friends
of Robert of Artois contrived to raise. Crowding, they thronged
around the old man, who gazed unmoved upon them ; their looks
and words were menacing, when Ulrick thrust himself between ;
like the young lion who first sees his prey, his blood was roused —
despair had made him reckless.

Back ! " he exclaimed, tracing a circle with his sword ; " let
him who is most tired of life first cross it. Were ye the friends of
the Norman devil whose name Robert of Artois bears, I'd brave ye
all in such a cause as this. Is this the amity ye lately swore ? — is
this the justice Saxons must expect at Norman hands .'' — against an
old man, too ! Shame on your courage, sirs."

The vast body of Edda's troops, hearing the voice of their lord,
thronged instantly around him. Odo and the more reasonable of
the Normans felt that he was right ; and the assailants, seeing that
they were outnumbered, sheathed their weapons.

Let him explain his words, and justify them, if he can," they
cried. " Public has been the accusation ; as public be the proofs."

Who saw Robert of Artois at the banquet ? " demanded the old
bard. There was a pause — none remembered to have seen him.
"Who can tell when and where he first joined in the pursuit .? " he
added.

I — I," exclaimed several of the younger nobles ; " he joined us
in the market-place, and all have seen how eagerly he conducted the
pursuit."

Ay," exclaimed a third, " and well he hath been recompensed."

Conducted the pursuit ! " echoed Hellaa. " True, he did conduct
it everywhere but to the road which led to his own felon den. Who
twice misled us by false intelligence ? — Robert of Artois. Who of
all the nobles was absent at the banquet when the outrage was
committed 1 — Robert of Artois. Who alone, of all those who swore
to avenge the crime, hath withdrawn from the pursuit 1 — Robert of
Artois. And who," he added, with increased energy, " is the vile
ravisher of innocence ? — Robert of Artois."

Conviction flashed in an instant upon both Mirvan and his friend,
the former of whom had frequently remarked his passionate glances
directed towards Isabel. So profound was the impression Hellaa's
words produced, that even the culprit's nearest friends were dumb.
Odo of Caen was the first to break the silence.

It must be seen to," he exclaimed. " Let the esquires give orders
to refresh our men ; and then towards Filby."

The words had scarcely passed the speaker's lips, when a servitor,
bearing the badge of Herbert de Lozenga on his vest, galloped to

the ground, and, without waiting to dismount, placed in the hands
of Ulrick, who hastily tore the seal, a missive from the prelate, which
detailed the treachery of Robert of Artois, but without alluding to
his prisoner's share in it — a circumstance which, for many prudential
reasons, he wished for awhile to remain concealed.

It is confirmed," he cried, glancing over the letter. " Robert of
Artois is the vile ravisher — the traitor who hath broken the bond of
peace — stolen like some midnight thief upon my path, and robbed
me of my happiness. Who will dispute his guilt when it is known
that the venerable bishop is his accuser ? But I will have revenge ! "
he added, drawing his sword — an example which was followed by
the aged Edda and his Saxon followers.

'* By Him whose name yon stars pronounce," continued Ulrick,
"whose might the roaring sea and tempest's breath alike make
manifest, I here devote my soul to its fulfilment — a wild, exterminating,
deep revenge ! "

A shout of execration from the Normans and Saxons followed the
words of Ulrick, for the insult to both was equal in the outrage
offered to the brides of their leaders ; eagerly they demanded to be
led against the stronghold of the knightly robber, vowing not to
leave one stone upon another till they had rescued his prisoners.
The preparations were quickly made, and ere the sun was an hour
higher in the heavens, the united hosts, under the conduct of Mirvan

and Ulrick, were on their way to Filby.

« * * ' * »

Matilda had beheld with joy the excitement of her cousin at last
relieved by tears, as she sank exhausted with her griefs upon the
couch beside her. By a benevolent provision of nature, sorrow or
pain, beyond a certain limit, stupefy the brain, or life would succumb
beneath them. Isabel had gradually sobbed herself into a feverish
slumber, disturbed by fearful dreams and visionary terrors, from
which she would occasionally start, but recompose herself on hearing
the low, sweet voice of Matilda, or feeling the affectionate pressure
of her hand. The latter slept not, but had passed the night in prayer,
tempering her soul with courage. On considering her position, she
felt convinced that her imprisonment was but the consequence of
her companionship with Isabel. The purity of her nature did not
allow her to suppose that her beauty had excited the lawless desire
of anyone ; for, like the flowers of the field, she was unconscious
of her loveliness. Partially reassured, therefore, on her own account,
she resolved to devote herself to the protection of her cousin, whom
she loved as a sister, and the affianced bride of her brother. The
rays of morning began to penetrate through the strongly-barred
windows, when the watcher, seeing that her charge still slept,
advanced to the casement, to see if she could recognise from the
surrounding country the place of their imprisonment. The view
fully confirmed her suspicions that they were the captives of Robert

STANFIELD HALL,

of Artois ; for Filby Broad, with its sedgy islands and woody banks,
lay stretched like a clouded mirror in the morning mists before her.
As the snn advanced in power, the lake became more and more
distinct, till she could trace the wild duck leading her brood in
matronly pride on its placid bosom, or the stately heron, patiently
watching for its finny prey from some projecting stone close by the
shore, where the waters were not too deep for its long legs to wade,
or neck to plunge. Sometimes she would watch the solitary drake,
as, with its sharp cry, it rose from the water, and directed its arrowy
flight over the distant woods of Ormsby, or the low, marshy grounds
which lie between them — envy its rapid flight, and sigh for
freedom.

Her reveries were broken by the gentle closing of a door. In an
instant tke terrible reality of her position pressed upon her ; and,
turning confront the intruder, she beheld, to her great relief, that
it was a woman. So completely was she shielded from observation
by the recess in which she stood, and so qiiiet had been the movement,
that the stranger failed to perceive her ; and there was something so
peculiar in her manner, that Matilda determined to observe her.
Her apparel, which was extremely rich, partook more of the Eastern
than European character ; a saffron-coloured short vest fell over a
white cymar, which descended to the wearer's ankles ; both were
embroidered at the hems with gold. Her figure was tall and
commanding, and her features, which Avere still beautiful, although
marked by the strife of passions, bore the peculiar characteristics of
the Jewish race. It was evident, from her costume, that she could
not be a menial ; for, independent of the richness of her dress, gems
of considerable value glittered upon her arms and neck, or were
braided in her long, dark hair. Cautiously she approached the couch,
and gazed upon the sleeper ; her features became dreadfully agitated
as she did so.

She is beautiful," she murmured, or rather hissed through her
clenched teeth ; " young, too ; perhaps nobly born — innocent and
fair ; — what chance have I, withered as I am in form and
mind, to retain his heart against such a rival ? He will
soon arrive to clasp her in his eager arms, to breathe his serpent
vows into her ear, to press his poisonous kisses on her lips, and
laugh to scorn the lost, degraded Rachel. Let him come," she
added, firmly ; " he shall find the kiss of death upon her lips before
him ; the worm shall first supplant him in her love ! " As the last
words fell upon the astonished listener's ear, the Jewess drew a sharp,
glittering blade from beneath her vest, and advanced yet nearer, with
the stealthy pace of a tigress, towards the couch, Matilda had
gradually' become spell-bound with terror at the evident purpose of
the stranger. Her limbs were rooted to the spot, and the powers of
speech and motion seemed alike denied her ; her agony became
intense ; vainly she struggled with the torpor which oppressed her.

Nor was it till the arm of the woman was actually raised over the
unconscious Isabel, that, with a piercing shriek, she burst the
horrible species of fascination which bound her, exclaiming as she
did so —

•' Think on thy soul ! Shed not the blood of innocence."

So thrilling was the cry, that the affrighted Isabel started from
her slumbers, waking from fearful visions to a more fearful reality
before her. The murderess was equally startled ; it seemed as if
the appealing voice of conscience had thundered in her ear, " Thou
shalt do no murder ! " She gazed in surprise upon the fair girl who
had so suddenly interposed between her and her intended victim,
and who, with arm encircling the agitated Isabel, boldly confronted
her.

Who art thou ? " she falteringly demanded.

Victims, like yourself, to the foulest treachery," replied ISIatilda ;
though, perhaps, unlike you, unwilling ones. How can this poor
girl excite your hatred, that you should seek to stain your hands in
blood ? Rather assist us to escape our tyrant's power., for the honour
of your sex and the memory of your mother's love."

The word mother seemed to touch a chord whose every tone
vibrated in agony. Dropping the still upraised weapon, she clasped
her hands upon her brow, as if stricken by a sudden pain. The
flush of passion on her features was replaced by the purer blush of
shame, and in an instant the tears gushed from her burning eyes,
and relieved her overwrought heart ; for fallen as Rachel was, one
trace of Eden lingered in her yet. In a voice broken by sighs, she
murmured —

Speak not of my mother, lest from the grave she rise to curse
her child."

She is mad," whispered Isabel — " mad. If friends come not
soon to rescue us, reason will leave me too."

No ! " said Rachel, dashing the tears from her dark eyes, as if
ashamed of her momentary weakness, " I am not mad ! Would to
our Father Abraham I were ! For madness cannot equal the pangs of
a despised and unrequited love."

You love our captor, Robert of Artois, then ? " exclaimed Matilda,
a ray of hope dawning on her soul.

Ay, maiden, love him as the lost daughters of our race alone can
love — beyond home, parents, honour, life — more," she added, with
still increasing excitement — " more e'en than Heaven itself : all but
life I have already sacrificed for him, and would again, though but
for one kind smile ; alas ! 'tis long since I received one."

And he requites your sacrifice ? "

With scorn ! " interrupted Rachel ; " with scorn ! whose serpent
tooth gnaws deeper into a woman's heart than aught on earth beside.
I once was good," she added, " gentle as yourselves, not meanly
nurtured or ignobly bred. What hath it made me ? A raging tigress ;

changed my woman's heart into a fiend's ; destroyed the kindlier
impulse of my nature ; made me in heart, if not in deed, a
murderess ! "

Alas ! " said Isabel ; " what have I done to cause such fearful
hate ? "

Loved him I love," replied Rachel, whose jealousy returned as
she gazed on the lovely girl before her, and mentally compared her
opening loveliness with her own fading beauty ; " is it not enough
to give me cause to hate thee ? "

"Woman," exclaimed Isabel, with dignity, " be the words thy
happiness or bane, be they for good or ill, know that, if Robert of
Artois were king, Isabel of Bayeux would never share his throne ;
but would prefer the convent's gloom, the meanest hut, the shelter
of the grave itself, to his polluted couch, I loathe and scorn him."

There was a tone of sincerity in the speaker's words which carried
conviction to the heart. The Jewess gazed attentively upon her fora
few moments — at first suspiciously, but at last with confidence,
for the candid brow of the fair girl was not one where falsehood had
ever traced its crooked characters. Despite herself, she could not
but believe her.

Deceived ! " she muttered to herself, " again deceived ! Thank
Heaven, this crime, at least, is spared me ! Forgive me, maiden,"
she added, " my evil purpose ; but I was stung — deceived — wrought
on by jealous pangs ; they told me thou wert come to be his bride
his willing bride — and I, who loved, too easily believed them.
But if thou lowest him not," she added, " why art thou here ? "

Ask of the vulture," said Matilda, " why the wounded dove was
found within his nest ; ask of the tiger why the bleeding fawn is
trembling in his den. Art thou answered ? "

I see — I see," exclaimed the Jewess, struggling with her evil
passions, which were again excited by the idea of Robert's love for
another ; " but. I will save thee. The fool who poured this tale of
poison in my ear did it to gain my love — fool ! not to know that
hearts like mine can feel but once its spell, and break when it is
broken. Wouldst thou be free ? "

Gladly," exclaimed both Matilda and Isabel.

But you must swear," she added, " that if by my means the path
lies open to you, no injury shall fall upon your captor. False as he
is, I would not, e'en to save my perilled soul, harm one hair of his
ungrateful head. Promise me this."

Easily answered : Matilda, my cousin, and myself solemnly
swear never to breathe, save in confession, our captor's fearful
name,"

*' Away, then," said Rachel, hurriedly ; " morning advances, and
he may soon be here — here to mar our plans, and to prevent your
flight."

It is prevented," exclaimed a stern voice behind them. They



,|irpi-|il|!fl|p. j?il![!,;'lilrp,.n|irir''li'iiii;iiii,,,,„^ ,mr.,.0i^
I||L

started, and Isabel beheld the object of her hate and terror, Robert
of Artois, who, after leading Ulrlck and Mirvan, had returned to
Filby, to await the arrival of his royal accomplice in the act of
villainy. The effect of the appearance upon the Jewess Alas even
greater than upon his trembling victim ; in an instant her fit of
jealousy returned, and springing towards Isabel, she would have
completed her original purpose, had not the swift arm of her seducer
arrested her.

Release my hand !" she cried, or rather shrieked. " I'll not beheld
! Her life or thine, Norman ; ravisher ! villain ! coward !
Christian, I spit upon and curse thee ! "

It is difficult to say how the contest with the frantic woman
might have terminated, had not several men-at-arms rushed into
the room, on hearing the voice of their master. They were accompanied
by a young esquire, whose agitated countenance, when he
beheld Rachel struggling with his lord, told a deeper interest than
mere pity ; his hand involuntarily grasped the hilt of his poniard,
but reflection held it.

Convey this wanton to a secure cell within the keep," cried
Robert, spurning the unhappy woman brutally from him. " Guard
her well, Aymer, and see that I am pestered with these frantic
scenes no more."

Dog," said the Jewess, still resisting the men-at-arms, who were
dragging her from the apartment, " thou hast spurned me like a
hound ; beware my fangs ! Thou hast broken the last tie between
us ; beware when next we meet ! "

Believe me, I regret, fair ladies, you should have been exposed
to a scene like this," said Robert of Artois, as soon as the unhappy
woman was removed ; " but jealousy of your superior charms has
driven her mad. I will give orders she shall not mar our happiness
again."

This was said with an affectation of courtesy which rendered its
insolent familiarity more bitter. Isabel, on whom his eyes were
licentiously fixed, shrank trembling to the side of her cousin,
whose hand alone prevented her from falling, so excessive was her
terror at his presence.

Robert of Artois," said Matilda, with dignity, " I appeal not to
thy honour — for this deed of thine proves that my words would
wake no echo there — but to thy fears. Canst hope our presence
can be long concealed within these walls ? Normans and Saxons
will alike unite to punish thy aggression. Release us, then ; and
here 1 solemnly renew the oath never to yield thy name to those
whose swords would punish thy unmanly crime."

*' Filby," replied the knight, carelessly, " hath held birds of a
nest as lofty, maiden, as thine own ; and I have kept the fledgelings.
But a few hours since I left thy brother and his new-found friend ;
we parted in honest fellowship. Suspicion's self can never glance

L 2

at me ; aud if it does," he added, " Isabel will by that time be my
bride, and thou be caged by one who knows how to put a gag upon
that scornful tongue, and tame thy haughty nature."

Thy bride ! " exclaimed Isabel, gazing on him with loathing.
"Never ! "

These walls have echoed often to that word," sneeringly
observed the knight ; " spoken as oft in vain. I know a trick to
make thee sue to be the bride of him you so long have scorned. I
have humbled hearts, ere now, as proud, and firmer far than thine.
But why are you in this chamber 1 My orders were you should be
separated. Solitude may tend to tame your spirits. Come," he
added, approaching Isabel as he spoke, " I have a dove-cot prettier
far than this ; let me conduct thee thither. There I will woo thee
as thou shouldst be wooed, and teach thee, maid, how Robert of
Artois loves."

The flashing eyes of the speaker declared but too plainly his
guilty purpose. So completely did he deem the unprotected girls
within his power, that he would not even give himself the trouble
to dissemble, but felt a savage joy in humbling, by brutal outrage,
the high-spirited being who had scorned his proffered love. Isabel
read his purpose, and exclaimed, as she sank fainting in the arms
of her cousin —

*' Thy promise, coz, thy promise ! "

The appeal was not made in vain. In the purity of her nature
Matilda would rather have seen her cousin dead — nay, with her own
hand have offered up the spotless victim on the shrine of honour —
than polluted by the touch of the base ravisher. Drawing the knife
which from the hour of her arrival at Filby she carried concealed
in her bosom, she held it over the insensible form of Isabel.

"Advance one step nearer ! " she cried, "and I consign her soul
to God and His good angels. Robert of Artois, doubt not my
purpose. Mark if my hand trembles or an eyelid quivers. I have
sworn, living, thy arms should never clasp her. Lessen the
distance between us but one step — a line's breadth, a hair — and her
pure blood shall rise to heaven against thee."

So firm was the voice of the speaker, so resolute her eye, that
even Robert of Artois, accustomed though he was to scenes like
this, could not for one moment doubt her purpose. The sharp,
glittering blade was within an inch of her fair cousin's breast, her
eye unflinchingly fixed upon his. Involuntarily he started back,
saying, as he did so —

What wouldst do ? "

Preserve her honour at the expense of life."

Murderess ! "

"Thou art the murderer," replied Matilda, "I, the priestess.
Thine is the victim — mine the sacrifice ; approach, and it is offered.
If Heaven will not prevent, its mercy will accept it."



Foolish girl ! " exclaimed Robert ; " it can neither prevent nor
interfere to save thee."

Scarcely had the words passed his lips than the blast of a trumpet
i-ang loud and deep before the drawbridge. Matilda started, for she
knew the challenge of her house. 'Twas Mirvan's trumpet.

It has interposed ! " she cried. " Robber, thy ruffian hold is
close beset ; our friends are round thy walls ! Well may thy cheek
turn pale. In Heaven has been our trust, and Heaven hath answered
us. Living, thou canst not guard us ; dead, our friends mil pile
these towers in ashes o'er our grave."

Confusion ! " muttered Robert, and rushed from the apartment.

Matilda laid her insensible burthen on the couch, and sank in
grateful prayer upon her knees beside her.

CHAPTER X.

Robert of Artois rushed from the chamber of the two captives,
and with hasty strides gained the battlements of his stronghold,
from whence the sight which met his gaze might have quailed a
stronger heart than his, for the united Saxon and Norman hosts
were marshalled on the plain before him. So universal was the
indignation at the unmanly outrage he had committed, that even
amongst those whom he called his friends not a single banner was
absent. Men who would have supported him in almost any other
cause, who had shared with him in the plunder of the oppressed
Saxons, were now in arms against him. Had his victims been of
the vanquished race, it would have been long ere a single pennon
had been given to the wind ; but the insult to the daughter and niece
of so popular a man as the late Hugh de Bigod could not be passed
over : it was a crime which might come home to every noble's
hearth ; and they determined, however they might violate the rights
of others, that none should tamper with their own.

About twenty paces behind the herald, whose trumpet had called
the lord of Filby to the walls, stood the chief leaders of the expedition
Ulrick and Mirvan, to whose anxious hearts it seemed an age until
their enemy appeared. Edda and Odo of Caen left the parley to
the two lovers, and were busily occupied in directing the franklins
and nobles where to place their men. Under the direction of such
experienced commanders, every point of vantage was taken possession
of, and the castle was completely invested before the inmates knew
of their approach.

"Unless the fox's den be well supplied," said Odo, casting a
satisfied glance on the military dispositions, " we shall starve him to

a surrender ; for I defy horse or man to pass by lake or plain
without being exposed to the arrows of oiir soldiers. But see," he
added, " the ravisher appears upon the walls. May the caitiff's
shrift be short and speedy, for it will be his last ! "

'Tis a strange greeting you have called me to ! " exclaimed
Robert, after casting a hurried survey over the scene. "Is Filby
hold a robber's den, nobles and knights, that you appear before it,
banner displayed and lance in rest .? 'Tis well our walls are strong
enough to bid defiance unto all who come. Come ye in hostile
guise, or isn't some riddle beyond a plain man's guessing "i "

Robert of Artois," said Ulrick, with a strong effort to master his
indignation, " though this deed of thine is of so black a treachery,
it merits more the hangman's office than knightly chastisement.
Descend, and let the sword decide between us. If vanquished, thou
shalt release thy captives ; if conqueror. Heaven will raise them up
another champion."

Captives ! Avhat captives ? " demanded the villain in well-dissembled
surprise ; " my castle is not a prison."

Lying will not serve thee now," cried Mirvan : " despite thy
arts, thy treachery is known. Where is my sister — where my cousin
Isabel .? Release them, or I swear not to leave one stone upon
another of this den of treachery and blood — one living soul within
its ruined walls ; thy knightly spurs shall be hacked off — thy
escutcheon reversed, in sign of infamy, upon thy grave."

Boys ! " replied Robert, " I hear and scorn you both. First, for
the base-born Ulrick, — for such, despite the bishop's juggling tale, I
do believe he is — I cross no sword with men of doubtful birth. As
for my captives, if I have such, I have good warrant for detaining
them. For the rest, exert your strength on Filby — bend bow and
mangonel ; our walls can boast of hearts and hands who know how
to defend them,"

Coward ! " exclaimed Ulrick, maddened by the sneering tone of
the speaker ; " cool, calculating, spiritless coward, bold only when
women are to be assailed, hath thy cheek no blush of shame ? — thy
heart no drop of knightly blood ? "

If not with Ulrick, measure swords with me ; my birth, at least,
is equal to thine own," said Mirvan ; " felon as thou art, I offer thee
the chance of equal combat, a noble's sword for the vile headsman's
axe. Descend, and Heaven decide between us."

Mirvan's challenge, and the epithet of a coward which Ulrick had
previously applied to him, stung their enemy to the quick ; for, like
most cruel and licentious men, he j^^as excessively vain, and
consequently susceptible of shame. It was not, therefore, without
an effort that he determined to decline the contest ; for he well
knew how such an act must lower him in the estimation of his
chivalrous countrymen, with whom courage was held the highest
virtue. Perhaps he was influenced in his decision by the belief

that the arrival of the royal partner of his crime would relieve him
from his embarrassing position by causing the Normans to desert
their new allies, or turn their swords against them. Perhaps, too,
he lacked the moral courage to face the glance and swords of those
whom he had so cruelly injured. Whichever was the motive, his
face was livid with contending passions, as he replied —

If, for the present, I decline the contest, think not it is I fear
it ; the bridegroom never longed more for his bride's first kiss, than
I to vindicate my honour and chastise thy boyish insolence ; that
which I have done I dare defend. Normans and Saxons, I defy ye
both. What ho ! " he added, calling to the warder, "fling out our
banner ; man the walls ; let your keen arrows count every rivet of
their armour. A hide of land and twenty silver marks to him whose
arm strikes down a leader of yon vaunting host."

Scarcely had the words passed his lips, than a body of his men,
who had been crouching behind the battlements, suddenly started
up, and discharged a flight of arrows at the group of nobles near the
herald. Thanks to the goodness of their armour, Ulrick and
Mirvan both escaped. Odo of Caen was slightly wounded in the
head, but the unfortunate herald was slain. The assailants raised a
shout of execration as they beheld him fall ; and even the cheek of
Robert of Artois blanched — for his office, like his person, was
sacred, and the wounding or' injuring one of them was ever
considered a most unsightly deed.

Villain ! " exclaimed Odo of Caen, shaking his sword, " the blood
thou hast shed must be atoned. I swear never to quit this spot
alive, till I have levelled thy castle with the dust, and fixed thy
head upon the ruined pile. So help me Heaven, our Lady, and
St. George ! "

The speaker, his face streaming with blood from the treacherous
arrow, drew his sword and kissed the golden cross upon its hilt.
It was no unusual circumstance at the period of the Conquest, and
the ages of chivalry which succeeded it, for one or more nobles to
bind themselves, like Odo of Caen, to some particular undertaking ;
such oaths were always most scrupulously kept by all who valued
their knightly reputation ; to break them was considered such dishonour
that it released the affianced bride from her contract,
should her lover be proved guilty of it.

A vow ! a vow ! " cried Miiwan, as Odo ceased speaking, " to
which I join myself heart and soul."

And I ! " exclaimed Ulrick and most of the younger
nobles ; at the same time touching the sword of Odo, in token of
their companionship in his oath, and pronouncing the formula, " So
help us Heaven, our Lady', and St. George."

The followers of Robert were preparing to send a second flight of
arrows, when Edda, who marked the action, gave the signal to his
men, and in an instant a cloud of missiles swept the wall ; several

of the besieged fell, struck by the heavy stones which the Saxons
sent from their slings with remarkable precision. Their leader
received one upon his breast, which reminded him that he was
without his armour by the pain it occasioned ; he retired, therefore,
behind a bastion, calling to his esquires to bring him his coat of
mail and casque as he did so.

Filby Castle was a regularly fortified hold, built with more
regard to strength than • either beauty or convenience. Like
most of the fortresses of the age, it consisted of a lofty keep or
donjon, surrounded by offices, forming a kind of courtyard, the only
entrance to which was by a strong tower ; the latter generally
served as storehouses for the corn and provisions of the inmates, as
well as the dormitories of the guards, its flat roofs serving, in case of
attack, as a battery, from whence the besieged could pour down
molten lead and hurl masses of stone upon their enemies. The
keep and tower were the only buildings of stone ; the rest were
mere constructions of sun-burnt brick and timber, easily destroyed
by fire, and whose loss would but slightly affect the carrying of the
rest of the stronghold.

From the determined manner of Robert of Artois, it was evident
that all hope of capitulation was in vain ; he was prepared to defend
himself to the last, and, after a brief consultation between the
Son and Norman leaders, it was resolved to continue the seige indue
form.

Nobles," said Edda, as soon as the resolution was concluded, " if
the peace between our races is to be a lasting one, it must be
cemented by an act of stern' but necessary justice. The wrong
which brings us here hath been offered by Robert of Artois alike to
both, and both are joined to punish him. Let the gallows be
erected in sight of his vile den, his name attached to it, like that of
the meanest criminal, together with a parchment, signed by us all,
declaring him degraded from the dignity of knighthood, and
doomed, for the murder of our unoffending herald, to die a felon's
death. Are we agreed ? "

We are ! " exclaimed Ulrick and Mirvan in the same breath.

Odo of Caen and his brother nobles approved the proposition ;
the gibbet was accordingly erected, and the act of degradation
solemnly affixed by sound of trumpet. Robert, pale with rage,
witnessed the ceremony from the Avails of his stronghold, and his
cheek changed with rage and fear, as he marked the effect it
produced upon his followers, men who, under ordinary circumstances,
would have abetted him in any act of villainy. Quickly, however,
recovering himself from his confusion, he observed, with a loud,
forced laugh —

A slip of parchment will not win Filby hold. Courage, friends !
we shall soon behold a royal banner in the boaster's rear. William
of Normandy, our future monarch, by whose orders I am acting,

will soon be here to punish these presuming traitors, who would
usurp the prerogative of justice, and dispute his will,"

The words had scarcely passed his lips when the sentinel who was
placed upon the highest tower called out that he beheld an approaching
force, headed b j several knights in armour, who were directing their
march towards Filby ; and that, from the movement amongst the
besiegers, he doubted not but that they perceived it too. The
intelligence gave fresh courage to their audacious leader, who
doubted not but that it was his patron marching to his succour.

See you no banner ? " he demanded.

The soldier paused a moment ere he replied, for the new actors
were still at a considerable distance from the scene.

I do," at last he answered. " There are three ; one borne in
advance of the others — a herald precedes it."

By whom is it borne ? "

A knight in full armour," shouted the man. " Three leaders
follow it — one is a priest."

Can you discern the blazon ? " replied Robert of Artois, at the
same time straining his sight to catch it, his fears reverting to
Herbert de Lozenga at the intelligence that one of the leaders was a
priest.

A lion rampant in an azure field, surmounted by a ducal crown.
It is a royal banner," added the man.

*' Thanks to our Lady," shouted the degraded man ; " it is the
prince. Now then we shall see yon scum dispersed like chafe
before the wind. Shout, men, and wave our banners from the
walls to welcome them ! Shout, in sign of recognition for their aid !
See, the enemy marshal their ranks to meet them. Would they
resist their prince ? Aymer," he added, turning to the young
esquire who attended him, " lead a party of our men into the
courtyard below. Be ready for a sally. This is the day to win thy
spurs ; and tell the warder at the first signal to be ready at the
drawbridge ; we must attack them in the rear."

Robert of Artois watched with eager eyes the expected encounter
of the two hosts. What was his consternation when he beheld
their leaders mutually advance in sign of amity, and their troops
mingle together till they formed but one body, which, after a few
moments' evolution, directed its inarch towards Filby ! From that
instant he felt the first misgiving for the success of his villainous
scheme, and half-repented that he had undertaken it.

Can the fickle-minded tyrant," he muttered " have betrayed
me ? — or have both Normans and Saxons yielded to the prestige of
his birth ? No, no," he added, bitterly, as the banner of the leader
distinctly met his view — '*by my evil star, it is the blazon of my
namesake, Robert Carthorse, the Conqueror's eldest son. What
devil brings him to this country to mar our plans ! Where can his
brother be .' The wily bishop, too ! " he added, as George of

Erpingham advanced with the pennon of his master ; " the game
hath fearful odds against me. No matter, I will fight it to the last.
Victory or revenge shall at least be mine. I will not fall alone."

Lowering their visors, to guard against any fresh act of treachery
on the part of the besieged, the leaders of the now united army,
preceded by a herald in the royal tabard, and a knight bearing the
prince's banner, advanced close to the walls of the castle ; its
commander was waiting to receive them. Thrice did the herald
summon him to open the gate to his highness Robert of Normandy,
on pain of treason and forfeiture in case of a refusal. There was a
pause, during which the traitor whispered something to one of his
arquebussiers, a man equally noted for skill and determination ; a
nod of intelligence was the fellow's only reply, and immediately he
concealed himself behind one of the projecting bastions, taking his
weapon with him.

And how am I to know," answered Robert of Artois, " that the
prince is really with you ? Report speaks him in Normandy. Men
ere now have fallen into a snare as plain as this ; the royal banner
may be assumed "

But not the royal person," interrupted the unsuspicious prince,
spurring his horse, and advancing from the group of nobles by whom
he was surrounded still nearer to the walls. " Behold ! "

He raised his visor as he spoke, exposing to the full gaze of the
besieged his frank, manly countenance. Scarcely had he done so,
than the concealed ruffian, obedient to the orders he had received,
discharged his arquebus ; but, fortunately, from the crouching
position he had been compelled to assume, in order to conceal
himself, he had not taken aim with his usual precision. The arrow
missed the prince's face, but struck the golden crown upon his
helmet — an emblem of the prince's future destiny — and the royal
insignia fell to the ground, shivered by the shock. Its incautious
wearer instantly closed his visor, and, raising his hand in defiance,
exclaimed —

Robert of Artois, thou art a doomed man ! By the oath of my
race, I swear to show no mercy to thee or any of thy fellows. The
axe and cord shall be the doom of all. No further parley now. The
lion's on thy track. His thirst of blood is roused ; fear not but he
will quench it to the full."

At the end of this imprudent speech, the prince returned to his
followers and friends, who, however they regretted his incaution,
were silent through respect ; for the resolution he had sworn to left
no room for hope of an accommodation with the besieged ; many of
whom would perhaps have hesitated to defend their master against
their monarch's son, but that he had sworn their death by an oath
which none of his family were ever known to break. No other
resource, therefore, was left to them but a desperate resistance ; they
knew that the attack would be fearful, and they prepared with

alacrity for their defence, their wily leader rejoicing in the
indiscretion of his reckless enemy.

We have had words enough," exclaimed Ulrick ; " and nothing
now remains but to draw the sword and throw away the scabbard.
Beloved Matilda ! " he added, *' if too late to save, at least I'll
honour thy loss with Filby for thy funeral pile."

Under the direction of their leaders some of the men commenced

cutting down the reeds and sedges which grev/ upon the banks of

the lake ; others were sent into the wood to fell trees and brushwood ;

the whole of which, despite the efforts of the besieged, they

succeeded in piling against the offices which, as before stated,

formed the courtyard of the castle, by connecting the keep with the

tower. During this operation the Saxons, under Edda, rendered

good service ; for no sooner did the Normans appear upon the walls

than they were swept down by their arrows and the heavy stones

flung with astonishing dexterity from their slings. Many a cauldron

of seething pitch fell from the hand prepared to turn it on the

besiegers' heads ; on more than one occasion, however, it fell on the

unprotected limbs of the Saxons, burning them to the very bone.

The Normans saw this, and knowing they were better protected by

their armour, called upon them to retire whilst they took their

place — an offer which the former accepted in the same generous

spirit in which it was meant. Nothing, however, could induce

either Ulrick or Mirvan to withdraw ; reckless of the danger they

ran of the missiles which were showed-ed upon them, they continued

to share in the labours of their men. In the course of a few hours

the pile had reached a formidable height ; the boiling matter which

the enemy had poured from the walls only rendered it the more

inflammable ; and as soon as the torches were applied, the flames

rose quickly and strong. Robert of Artois, seeing that all attempts

to stop the conflagration would be vain, retired with his men to the

shelter of the keep, which, from its strength, seemed to bid defiance

to the besiegers' efforts,

*****

Whilst these proceedings are being carried on, it is a fit opportunity
for us to return to the Jewess, and the young squire to whose charge
her seducer had consigned her. On entering her dungeon, Rachel
paced its cold, damp floor with the angry mien of an excited lioness ;
her feelings had been hurt where they were most susceptible — in
her love. Pride, womanhood, and affection had alike been outraged ;
the man for whom she had sacrificed her own esteem, the respect of
her people, the prejudice of her faith, and her mother's love, had
spurned her from him like the vilest thing. The blow had so
crushed her heart that even its passion for the idol once enshrined
there became extinct; it throbbed with but one sentiment — revenge.

'Tis just ! " she cried, " 'tis just I should be used so ; gathered
like a toy in a moment of caprice — cast aside like a faded flower the

moment satiety had palled. What Vvill be my fate ? I have now no
refuge but the grave."

Yes, one other ! " exclaimed Aymer, throwing himself at her
feet. " I have long loved you — lived but in your presence — have
borne the burning pang of seeing you another's but in the hope
that you would one day smile upon my persevering suit. Speak but
the word — I will contrive the means to bear you from these hated
walls to a home of happiness and peace."

Happiness ! " iterated the Jewess, scornfully — " happiness with
one of thy cruel race ? No — I have had enough of Christian faith,
of Christian love — Ill trust to them no more."

Hear me swear — by every saint, hj every knightly oath," said
the esquire, casting an impassioned glance upon her.

He, too, hath sworn," interrupted the captive, "■ and every vow
is broken. It needs but a Christian oath to make me doubt thee
more than I do already. False as he is, this withered heart will
never know another love, or dream again the dream its girlhood
dreamt. Stir not its slumbering ashes, Aymer, lest thou wake a flame
which may consume, but never burn for thee."

Be calm, this storm of passion else must soon destroy thee."

Yes, I will be calm," said Rachel, sternly, '' as seas opposing
winds, as the torn earth convulsed by fires. God of my fathers ! "
she added, with an increased burst of passion, " was it for this I left
my peaceful home — lived the companion of his guilt and shame ?
Yet let the desperate libertine beware ! Not the fierce tigress
raging for her young — not the red lightning from Jehovah's hand,
strike with more fury than a woman scorned."

The still beautiful creature stood, as she uttered her fearful
denunciation, more with the aspect of an enraged pythoness than a
human being ; her dark black eyes flashed with intensity of hate.
Aymer regarded her with pity as well as love, for he guessed but
too well the fate to which Robert of Artois, to secure his own safety,
would find it necessary to doom her, and from that he resolved at
any rate to save her, wished her to live, though not for him.

Rachel," he cried, at the same time taking her by the hand,
listen to me. It is not now the voice of passion, but of pity,
speaks ; thou hast said truly that all ties between thee and thy
seducer are for ever broken ; thou canst no longer hope to retain his
heart ; hast thou no danger to encounter from his hate ? "

His hate ! " answered the wretched woman, scornfully ; " can it
do moi-e than his destroying love ? "

It can," replied the young man, "it can kill."

And tallest thou mercy hate ? — the best boon Robert of Artois
can bestow is death ; for in the grave is peace."

The deep tone of sadness in the wretched woman's voice, as she
answered the esquire, told him how vain were all his hopes of love ;
still he resolved, if possible, to save her, for, like most ardent

natures, there was a sentiment of generosity mingled with his
wildest passions ; every manly feeling was interested in a creature
so outraged and so helpless ; his emotion increased, therefore, as ho
resumed —

There are outrages worse to a noble mind than death. Should
he first resign thee to his brutal followers, to be their prey — their
scoff — their victim "

Hold ! " shrieked the Jewess ; " naught which wears a human
form could consign the being it had loved to such a fate ! Fiend,
devil as he is, Robert of Artois would never contemplate so foul a
deed ; thou mayest this but to terrify me — to win me to thy purpose."

No ! " exclaimed Aymer ; " deeply as I prize thy love, wondrous
as is the enchantment of thy beauty, on my soul I would not win
thee by an act of baseness. Hear me : I will provide thee with the
means of flight. The lower postern by the water's edge is under my
especial care, the key in my possession ; soon as night draws on, I
will unbar thy prison door, and thou mayst fly far from this den of
infamy for ever."

Alone ? " demanded the Jewess, fixing a searching glance upon
him.

Alone," firmly replied Aymer. " If I live not for thy love, I
may as well die here. Men may call me traitor ; but none shall
ever live to brand me with a coward's name. I could have borne
that men should say, ' He fled his post in danger's hour for love ' ;
but none shall have the right to think I quitted it through fear."

The God of Abraham bless thee, Aymer, for thy generous heart ! "
exclaimed the Jewess, kissing his hand with deep emotion ; " and
He will bless thee, boy, with a far purer, better love than mine — a
love whose innocence shall cast its flowers around thy path, reminding
thee of Eden's lost inheritance. I do accept thy offer ; and for the
remnant of my wretched days, deeply as I have suffered from
Christian treachery, I will think better of its faith for thee. But
why remain behind ? "

I have told thee," said the young man, calmly ; '• love only
could, even to myself, excuse my flight in danger's hour."

Rachel gazed upon him long and sadly, and seemed, while doing
so, to commune with herself. Once or twice she murmured, " So
young ! — so brave ! " Her resolution, whatever it was, at last was
taken. Her voice was calm as an infant's while she uttered it — •■

Aymer," she said, " thou hast prevailed. To save thy life, I
give thee the little that remains of heart within this blighted bosom.
If the TVTeck be worth thy acceptance, take it ; for it is thine. Would
it were better worth thy noble nature."

I understand thee, Rachel," answered the esquire ; " I read thy
generous purpose. Thou wouldst save me, despite myself, from the
dangers which now threaten Filby, and then leave nie to my fate,
alone."

Not SO," she answered. " Thou hast no right to doubt my
Avoids, for they have ever been to thee a voice of truth, I do repeat
it," she added, with a slight blush — "' once beyond these walls, all
thou canst ask is thine."

Aymer could no longer doubt ; he was like a man who, in the
moment of despair found the path of happiness suddenly opened to
his view. Taking her hand, he covered it with passionate kisses,
thanking her a thousand times, as he did so, for the generous
sacrifice, and vowing that his life should be devoted to the task of
effacing from her mind the recollection of past sorrows, and
guarding her future happiness. There was a smile of incredulity
upon the face of the Jewess as she listened to him with something
like pity at the extravagant joy he manifested — a joy which she well
knew was doomed to be changed to bitter disappointment.

Leave me," she cried, gently releasing her hand. " I require to
be alone. I must commune with my heart, and draw courage and
resignation from myself. At the hour of escape you will find me
ready. Hark ! " she added, as the trumpet of the besiegers a second
time echoed through the castle, "the enemy are already at the
gates ; hasten to thy post to avoid suspicion ; but first leave me thy
cloak, for my blood runs coldly, and my heart is chilled in these
damp walls."

Aymer carefully enveloped the speaker's form in his ample
mantle, whispered the word " Adieu," and would have pressed a
kiss upon her lips had not the sudden paleness which came over
her warned him to desist.

Not now — not now," she murmured ; " wait but a little, and I
am wholly thine. At the appointed hour of flight thou wilt find
me in my dungeon, and midst lead me from these cursed walls in
silence. Mark me, in silence ; for my heart wi41 be too full of the
bitter memories of the past to bear the sound of human voice, even
in sympathy."

All, dearest Rachel," whispered Aymer, soothingly, " shalt be
as thou hast willed it. Till the hour arrives, farewell."

The moving squire contented himself with once more pressing his
lips upon her hand, and hurried from the cell.

Poor boy ! " sighed the Jewess, as the echo of his footsteps fell
fainter upon her ear, " had I met a heart like thine, how different
might have been my fate ! Mayst thou live to find a destiny more
pure and happy than I could make thee. 'Tis past," she added,
brushing the tears from her dark lashes ; " one sigh to recollection
of my abandoned home, my blighted youth, my broken heart ; and
then, like the daughter of my race of old, who smote Holofernes on
his silken couch, to right my injuries in the vile Norman's blood."

For awhile Rachel continued to brood over her resolve, and
arrange the means of its success. A proud smile lit her beautiful
features as she contemplated, in the mirror of her mind, its

concluding triumph. There was nothing of fear or doubt in its
expression. For herself, she was equally insensible to danger asher
heart was dead to hope. Drawing her tablets from beneath her
vest, she seated herself upon a stone, and hastily traced a few lines,
read them twice over, seemed satisfied with their contents, and
drawing Aymer's cloak around her, left the dungeon, which he had
unfastened. It was evident, from the ease with which the Jewess
threaded her way through the winding passages, that she was well
acquainted with the locality of her prison. As she approached the
battlements, however, her step became more cautious, and she drew
the capuchin of the esquire's mantle over her head, so as completely
to disguise her features. Of those whom she encountered, some
took her for a young knight who was but just recovering from his
wounds, and who for some time had inhabited the castle ; others
passed her without troubling themselves with a conjecture, so
occupied were they with their individual danger, and calculating on
their respective chances of safety in the coming contest.

Like a spectre, the unhappy woman glided along the ramparts,
still carefully veiling her face, and reached a solitary toAver, where
an old soldier kept watch ; he was leaning on his bow as she
approached, and seemed to contemplate the approach of the
enemy with an air of sullen indifference. So absorbed was he in
his thoughts, that the light step of. the intruder failed to disturb
him ; nor was it till he felt the pressure of her hand upon his
shoulder that he started from his reverie.

Harro," she whispered, "hast thou forgotten me ? " She threw
back the hood which concealed her features as she spoke.

No, lady," replied the old man, bowing reverentially ; " this
heart must indeed be cold when I forget the ministering angel who
Watched over the sick couch of my dear child ; my heart maybe
a hard and rough one, but it retains the characters graved by the
hand of gratitude the more indelibly. What brings thee to a scene
like this .? "

Revenge," replied Rachel, calmly. " I have been spurned like
a hound by him for whom I sacrificed all that woman can — honour,
respect, and Heaven. Thy master, and my destroyer, has doomed
the victim he has made to death."

To death ! " echoed the soldier, with a look of astonishment ;
"surely you dream."

Not so," she answered ; " my dream at last is ended. Wilt thou
serve me in this my hour of peril ? or are thy professions like those
of the world, hollow and unstable as the breath which made them .'' "

Speak," said the old man, "and prove them. Though it cost
me my life, I will not belie my words. What am I to do ? "

Give me an arrow from thy quiver," answered the Jewess.

Ilarro did as he was requested, and Rachel, receiving the
weapon, seated herself upon the ground, and endeavoured to affix

the tablets, on which she had written in her dungeon, to the point.
After searching her person for a ribbon or a cord to tie them with,
she quietly demanded of her companion if he had a knife. He took
one from his girdle and gave it to her. Without a moment's
hesitation she drew one of the long glossy tresses, which it had
once been her pride to ornament, through her fingers, and severed
it. In a few moments the tablets were securely fastened to the
steel head of the instrument. Rising, she cast her glances round
the scene before her till they rested on a distant banner, round
which several knights and a man in the dark flowing robes of an
ecclesiastic were assembled.

Dost see those men ? " she demanded, pointing to the group,
those close by the prince's banner ? "

The archer nodded his head in token of assent.

Send me this shaft amongst them," she resumed, " and I will
deem my kindness to thy child overpaid — thy every promise kej^t.
Draw well thy bow," she added, as the man took the arrow and
fitted it to his weapon, " for life and death hang on thy strength.
Let thy arm be nerved by gratitude, as mine has been by vengeance
shoot as thou wouldst for freedom or for hate."

Harro did as she requested. Using his still great strength, he
drew the missile to the very head ; and so sure was his aim, that
despite the vast distance between him and his mark, he hit the very
flag.

Rachel watched with eager eyes its flight, and saw with
satisfaction that her design was answered ; for an esquire raised the
arrow, and bore it with its burden to Herbert de Lozenga, the
ecclesiastic, who was conversing with the knights. The prelate read
the writing to those around him ; and Ulrick and Mirvan waved
their scarfs, in token that, whatever the request or information it
conveyed, it was joyfully accepted.

Thanks, old man ! " exclaimed the Jewess ; " thou hast done me
the last service I shall ever ask of man ; thy promise has been kept ; a
wretch's blessing rest upon thee ! Shouldst thou escape the siege,"
she addled, taking a collar of jewels from her neck, " these will
provide thee comforts for thine age. Mayst thou live long and
happy."

She placed her gift in the archer's hand, and drawing the capuchin
once more over her features, retraced her way cautiously towards
the keep ; her step was lighter as she did so, for she felt sure of
vengeance.

Let me but triumph in life's parting hour," she murmured to
herself, " and I will deem my sufferings overpaid ; let (he fatal star
which didst preside over my mortal destiny shine but propitious
now, and Lno more will curse its influence. Robert of Artois, I
have kept my oath ; I feel that we shall meet again."

Instead of returning to her dungeon, she passed along the now

deserted armoury, iior paused till she reached the door of the
apartment where" Matilda and her cousin were confined ; a sentry
had been placed there, who raised his partizan at her approach : his
orders were that none should enter. Fortunately for Rachel's
enterprise, she still retained the signet-ring of her betrayer, given to
her charge in an hour of confidence, which her self-sacrifice had
but too well merited. Extending her hand, she showed the glittering
gem, exclaiming as she did so —

This signal all within the walls obey. I am charged by thy
master to hold converse with his prisoners. Give me way."

The man, not doubting the truth of her assertion, unhesitatingly
lowered his weapon, and gave her ingress to the chamber, where we
must leave her for awhile, and return to the operations of the
besiegers.

The flames had destroyed the buildings which connected the
keep of Filby Castle with the lofty tower which served as principal
entrance to the edifice. The two latter, however, still held good ;
the threat of Robert of Normandy binding the garrison and their
chief by a sense of mutual safety. The principal efforts of the
enemy were, however, directed against the keep, where they knew
the captives were confined, and to which Robert of Artois and the
greater number of his followers had retired. Herbert de Lozenga's
men had brought several battering-rams with them, which, under
the direction of George of Erpingham, they were suspending from
their massive swings before the iron-plated gates of the stronghold.
It was an object with the besieged to impede the progress of their
labours, and it was the spot where the contest raged most fiercely.
The northern side of the donjon, next the water, was unassailed,
and comparatively unguarded.

It was from an angle of this position that Harro had winged the
shaft at the request of Rachel.

Listen ! " cried the prelate, as he perused the billet. " We have
friends within the walls, Heaven will bless our cause ! Perhaps ere
morning's dawn the lost brides may be restored to us."

Read, father, read ! " impatiently exclaimed both Ulrick and
Mir van.

The bishop did so : — " When the first hour of twilight falls, the
little postern 'neath the northern bastion will be opened. Place
your men in ambush. An esquire and a female will issue from the
keep. As you would avoid the sin of deep ingratitude, harm not a
hair of that man's head. His companion will explain the means by
which the keep may be secured. Keep up the assault upon the
western side, draw the attention of the besieged to that spot ; and
that alone. Once within the walls, courage and your own good
swords must do the rest."

*' Perhaps some snare," said Odo of Caen ; " can you guess the
writing ? "

M 2

Evidently a woman's hand," replied the reader, handing it at
the same time to the two bereaved lovers.

Ulrick and Mirvan each in turn eagerly took the scroll, and
returned it to the prelate With a feeling of disappointment, for it
was not the handwriting of either Isabel or Matilda.

Be it from friend or foe its counsel shall be tried," exclaimed
Ulrick ; " I will not lose one chance of vengeance."

Right, boy ! " cried his grandfather, the venerable Edda, who,
despite his years, had been one of the foremost in the attack. " See !
George of Erpingham waves his sword in signal that the battering-rams
are placed. Odo and I will conduct the assault, whilst you
and your all but brother lead a party of your men by the wood, to
avoid suspicion. Once within its friendly shade, let them steal oneby
one to the northern postern. If, as the writer promises, the door
should open "

Leave us to answer for the rest," interrupted the taro 3"0ung
men, as they hastened to follow his advice, and draw off their men ;
*' perhaps, when next we meet, we meet as victors. Farewell."

Ere the aged Saxon could reply, they were on their Away.

"Allow me to join you," said Robert of Normandy, as Odo and
the veteran marched to the scene of action. " My honour is
engaged in this as deeply, knights, as yours. 'Tis long since I have
joined in the noble game of war. My blood is warmed, and I feel
eager for the sport."

The besieged, Who well knew that the destruction of the portal
must entail the surrender of the keep, used every means to defeat
the efforts of their enemy. Huge benches were brought from the
banquet hall, and hurled ujjon them, crushing numbers beneath
their massive weight. Robert of Artois, with the courage which
despair will often give, displayed a perseverance Avorthy of a better
cause ; armed with a large iron bar, he laboured to loosen one of
the enormous stones Which formed the battlements of his stronghold,
the fall of any one of which must have been fatal to his
enemies, and rendered their battering rams useless. He would
doubtless have proved successful had his men seconded his efforts
with equal ardour to his own ; but the slings of the Saxons, who
were posted at a distance, so annoyed them that they shrank behind
the buttresses, and their leader only owned his safety to the strength
of his armour, Which was, however, bruised by the heavy bloAvs it
had received. As the battering of the huge beams fell upon the
portal, he redoubled his frantic efforts, till the vast mass of stone
trembled beneath his repeated shocks. So desperate did the
besieged at last become, that they used the bodies of the dead and
dying of their own party as missiles, and hurled them on the
persevering foe.

The attention of all within the Avails was directed to the western
side so entirely that, as Edda had suggested, the body of men under

the conduct of his grandson and Mirvan reached the postern by the
lake, as their unknown correspondent had directed. The last rays
of the setting sun had already kissed the bosom of the lake in
token of adieu as they arrived there. With breathless impatience
they waited for the promised opening of the gate ; every moment
seemed an age of suspense — an agony of expectation — whose
endurance was torture to the mind. The massive doors at last
turned slowly upon their rusty hinges, and the esquire Aymer
appeared, leading a female closely veiled ; in an instant he was
seem-ed and disarmed, and the postern closely guarded.

What treachery is this ? " cried Aymer, in astonishment at the
unexpected attack ; " am I betrayed ? "

The youth was destined to a still greater surprise ; for his
supposed mistress, who was clad in the garments of Rachel, threw
herself into .the equally astonished Mirvan's arms ; and raising her
veil as she did so, discovered the features of Isabel of Bayeux,
whom the Jewess, in atonement for her former attempt upon her
life, had thus contrived to save.

Where," demanded TJlrick, " is Matilda ? "

IBtill in the tyrant's power," sobbed the excited girl ; *' haste, if
ye are men, to save her."

The words had scarcely passed her lips than Ulrick disappeared,
followed by his men ; he needed no clue — instinct seemed to guide
his steps to the rescue of his betrothed. And Mirvan, after consigning
his rescued cousin and her companion to a party of his
archers to conduct them from the scene of danger, followed his
example ; for his heart was too generous to taste of happiness while
his sister's safety or his friend's peace of mind was still in peril.

The shrieks of despair and the groans of the dying within the
walls soon told to Robert of Artois that his den was in the hunter's
power. Casting aside the bar which he had continued to wield, he
rushed to the apartment where he had confined his captives, and
seizing on a female whom, from her dress, he recognised as Isabel
of Bayeux, he dragged her with him to an isolated turret which
rose by the side of the keep, the only communication between them
being a wooden platform, which, with a few blows of his sword,
was easily destroyed.

In a few moments Mirvan and Ulrick were masters of the keep,
the enemy being entirely subdued.

Yield thee, traitor ! " cried the latter, gazing with agony on the
veiled woman whom Robert of Artois still held firmly by the hand,
and whom he believed to be Matilda ; " yield, and I spare thy life.
But as thou art a man, harm not that trembling dove beside thee."

Hear me, vile Saxon," replied the baffled villain. " I have
sworn that Isabel of Bayeux shall be mine ; and here, amid the
ruins of my house, the destruction of my friends, I keep my oath,
and triumph still."

And I," exclaimed the Jewess, dashing aside her veil, and
gazing sternly upon the destroyer of her peace, " keep mine. In
life or death I swore to be beside thee. Where is now the blooming
bride thou didst prefer to Rachel's fervent love ? — safe in her
kindred's arms. Where is now thy hold of tyranny and blood ? —
the despised Rachel gave it to the triumphant foe. In death — in
death we are united ! This is a fitting scene for nuptials such as
ours. Receive my bridal kiss."

Before the astonished Norman could recover from his disappointment
and surprise, Rachel drew the knife which Harro had lent heron
the bastion, and plunged it into her seducer's throat. Although
her heart beat wildly as she did so, her hand was firm.

My oath, my oath is kept ! " shrieked the wretched woman, as
she beheld her victim fall. " God of my fathers, have pity on Thy
guilty child !"

Still holding the weapon with which she had struck the blow
firmly in her hand, she sprang from the lofty battlements ; one
shriek, like some despairing angel's cry, and all was still.

Such is the end of crime," exclaimed Herbert de Lozenga, who,
with Edda and Odo of Caen had found the person of Matilda,''and
conducted her to her betrothed ; " let Filby Hold be levelled with
the dust, that men may shun its wretched master's crimes."

CHAPTER XI.

Filby Hold having been completely destroyed, the victorious
party returned to Norwich, where, in a few days, by the bishop's
advice, the double marriages of Ulrick and Mirvan were celebrated,
amidst the rejoicing of the assembled nobles, and the vassals both
of Cranfield and the young earl's wide domains. Normans and
Saxons equally rejoiced. The double tie, which cemented the
union of the two most powerful leaders of the rival races within
the Angles, promised to that portion of the distracted kingdom at
least a temporary peace. Herbert de Lozenga had urged the
immediate completion of the ceremony, despite the recent death of
Matilda's father, for the experienced, wary statesman saw the
contest likely to ensue on the death of William the Conqueror — an
event of which he daily expected to hear ; and he determined to
place the happiness of his favourite beyond the chance of war, by
a tie which, even in that rude age of despotism and cruelty, was
too powerful to be broken — the sanction of the Church.

Bless you, my children ! " he exclaimed, as the two noble
youths and their trembling brides knelt to receive his benediction ;
may your lives flow on pure as the current of your thoughts,

calm as the exercise of your virtues ; may children, who resemble
you, spring like fragrant flowers around you, adorn your path of
life, and cheer it at its close ; may the future crown you with its
hopes, and past sorrows be repaid you in the presents

— but they were now tears of joy — bedewed the cheeks of
Edith as her maternal heart echoed the prelate's benediction ; and
she breathed a silent prayer that TJlrick's life might prove happier,
far happier, than her own. Edda, too, the venerable Edda, beheld,
in his grandson's marriage, the promise of his race renewed ; and
adding a blessing equally sincere, but equally destined to be vain.

The day was passed in rejoicing, usual at the period ; the poor
were plentifully regaled, the vassals contended in trials of manly
skill and strength, whilst their lords ousted in the lists, where
Matilda and Isabel, as Queens of Beauty, sat to reward and
encourage by their smiles the victors and the combatants. The
day was a glorious one, and the shields of the nobles and knights,
which were affixed to lances round the lists, showed their rich
blazonry in the rays of the sun. The two bridegrooms had
proved successful in almost every encounter, and thrice laid their
trophies at the fair umpires' feet. Even Odo of Caen had been
unheeded by Ulrick, and laughingly observed that if marriage
gave such strength of arm, he too must become a Benedict.
Robert of Normandy, although passionately addicted to the
knightly sport, gallantly declined to joust, declaring that the
champions of two such dames must be invincible. It was the law
of the tournament that any knight who wished to try the prowess
of another should challenge him by touching the shield affixed for
that purpose beneath his pennon with his lance — its owner, fully
armed, generally remaining on horseback by its side, unless
when engaged in the melee, or in some separate contest. The
sports were nearly ended, when an arrow, sent by some unknown
hand amongst the crowd, transfixed the shield of Ulrick, The
method of conveying a challenge was so unusual, that most men
thought it accident, till Edda, as marshal of the lists, drawing it
out discovered a label of parchment affixed to it, with these
ominous words : " Foiled, but not subdued ! " The old man
mournfully shook his head as he read the inscription, which he
crushed quickly in his hand, to conceal it from his grandson,
unwilling that a cloud of doubt should mar the sunshine of his
present hour.

"This is no common arrow," said Odo of Caen, regarding it
attentively. " Its feather has been plucked from the ill-omened
raven's wing ; the spirit of Robert of Artois hovers round us still.
I fear more evil yet."

I fear so too," observed Hellaa, the bard, who was standing near
his patron, and to whose excitable imagination the circumstance
seemed fraught with evil fortune. Had he seen the writing, the

impression would have been even more gloomy and profound, for
he was one of those who drew omens from birds, and mysteries from
everything. " Who saw the traitor's body ? " he demanded.

Neither Edda, Odo of Caen, nor any of the nobles who were
standing round, remembered to have seen it.

Perhaps," resumed the speaker, " the wolf's only wounded, not
destroyed. Ulrick may live to feel its fangs again."

Pshaw ! " interrupted the bridegroom, who had seen the flight
of the arrows, and who arrived on the spot in time enough to hear
the last observation ; " the Jewess struck home ; and there is no
blow as sure as that which is nerved by hate. Besides, tower and
keep are both levelled with the dust, and our enemy's bones,
doubtless, lie crushed beneath them. But be he living or dead, in
body or in spirit, with my good sword, and friends like these around
me, I can defy him."

Many a friendly glance answered the appeal ; and Ulrick, in the
sincerity of his own heart, believed them.

At this instant the prince gave the signal to end the jousts by
throwing down his truncheon, and the brides were conducted to the
castle, amid the shouting of the multitude and the benedictions of
the poor, to keep their marriage feasts. This time the gifted Saxon
bard poured out no unwelcome song as his harp sent forth its strain
in honour of the bridegrooms and their brides : —

Lady, although thy cheek be pale,

Thy grief is but the bride's sweet sorrow ;
Fling over her the silver veil,

Her eyes will sparkle bright to-sorrow.

The jewels in her bridal wreath,

Like rays of light and dewdrops clashing,
Are rivalled by the gems beneath —

The eyes through beauty's glad tears flashing

Fill to the bride a ruby cup,

And twine it with the choicest flowers ;
With wine and nectar fill it up.

As emblem of her future hours.

Hail to the bridegroom and the bride !

Warm hearts are now around them pressing,
Hands that would aid whate'er betide,

And kindred lips pronounce their blessing.

Then, lady, though thy cheek be pale,

Thy tears are but the bride's sweet sorrow ;
Fling over her the silver veil,

Her eyes will sparkle bright tomorrow."

The revel was continued to a late hour ; and long after the wine-cup
had been pledged to the new-made brides, the song and merry

laugh echoed through the old walls of Norwich Castle.

» * * * *

In a remote corner of the city, near the old church of St. Julian,
stood a lone house, whose neglected and time-stricken exterior would

have conveyed the idea that it was uninhabited, had not the well
cultivated garden, which extended from the back even to the cemetery,
proved that careful hands attended it. Plants of a foliage and
blossom unknown to Europe were to be found within its low walled
inclosure. This garden was an object of considerable interest and
curiosity to the thinly-scattered inhabitants who dwelt between it
and the water's edge. No human eye had ever seen the mysterious
gardener at his work ; still his labours were evident in the well-weeded
walks, and careful training of its flowers and fruits. The
house, unlike the ordinary buildings of the period, was entirely of
stone. The only apertures for the admission of light were at the
back, and those so narrow, and guarded by coarse wooden slides,
that it more resembled a fortress than an ordinary dwelling. Its
doors — for it had but two, one to the back and front — were studded
with thick iron nails. Few persons, however, had ever seen them
open ; and such casual passengers or watchers who had, shrank with
terror from its inmates, for they were of the despised race of Israel —
a people looked upon with abhorrence by the lower orders, and
cruelly persecuted, on account of their wealth, by the nobles and
petty vavasor of the lands on which they dwelt. Sometimes,
however, they secured toleration from their skill in medicine ; and
nJany a feudal lord, who would have wrung the last mark from the
Hebrew, protected his physician. In their last character even the
Church respected them ; and mitred abbots and dignified prelates,
when suffering from the surfeit or the spleen, condescended to invoke
their aid.

It was to the reputation which the master of the lone house in
question had acquired in the capacity of leech that he owed the
degree of safety which he enjoyed. Abram, for such was his name,
was from the East — the land of gold and gems, of mystery and
beauty — alike the cradle of the faith and superstitions of mankind.
'Tis strange when we reflect how little Europe has really given to
the world ; it has perfected science more than created it ; it has
accepted religion — split and divided it into sects, but founded none.
The East seems to have been like the first-born child, endowed with
the Creator's peculiar blessing.

On the night of Ulrick's nuptials, a boat, carefully roved, glided
down the river which half-encircles the city, past the Abbey of
Narrow, and stopped only when it reached the shore facing the
mansion of the Jew. The rowers carefully drew the boat from out
the stream, and having formed a sort of litter with their oars, placed
something like a human form upon it ; it was difficult to distinguish
what, so carefully was it enveloped in the boatmen's cloaks. Gently
they raised their burthen on their shoulders, and, preceded by a
man in armour, who had conducted the operation, slowly directed
their steps toward the house we have described. "Whatever might
be the purport of their visit, it was evident that they were expected ;

for, on the first signal, the door was opened to them, and closed the
instant they had passed the threshold with their burden.

They were received by a tall, aged man, bearing a brazen lamp,
whose strange costume and venerable appearance impressed even
the leader of the little band with awe and respect. His beard, of
silvery whiteness, worn long, after the fashion of the East, flowed
loosely over his dark gaberdine, which, although made in the
prescribed form, differed in richness of materials from those
generally worn by his persecuted race ; a girdle of silver confined it
to his waist ; the plates which composed it were graved with
Hebrew characters, as was the case of writing materials, and the
clasp of a pocket, curiously ornamented with needlework, which,
by chains of the same metal, depended from it. The wearer's
features were sharp and intellectual ; the forehead was magnificently
high ; the eyes, despite his age, quick and penetrating, but
characterised by that restlessness of expression which long habits of
watchfulness in scenes of continued danger give ; the aquiline nose
and peculiar lip marked his descent from the despised nation of
the Jews.

Place your burden there," said the old man, pointing to a low
couch, covered with deer-skins and soft matting. " Holy Abraham !
but 'tis a fearful risk to run. The prince and nobles have doomed
him to the gibbet, and should it be discovered that I have aided him,
little would they reck in their fury of the poor leech's life. 'Tis a
fearful risk ; but it must be run — it must be run. Persecuted as weare
ourselves, we owe something to humanity."

And something to thine interest, Jew," replied the squire.
The day will come when he who sheltered Robert of Artois may
lift his head with the proudest. My master has friends more powerful
than thou worst of. This unnatural league between the Norman
and the Saxon race cannot last long. The Conqueror draws near to
his last breath ; his successor will dearly avenge his favourite's
wrongs on those who have assailed him ; and my master's blazon
will once more shine with the proudest. His future sovereign's
favour awaits him, should he live ; if not, it will avenge him."

I am no stranger to the value of a prince's gratitude," replied
Abram, with a quiet smile ; " but say, how didst thou save him
from the ruins of his strong castle ? The world reports him dead ;
and those who trembled at his name, whilst living, now fearlessly
curse his memory."

I alone," replied the esquire, " was with him in the tower,
except th* daughter of thy accursed race whose jealous hand struck
the fatal wound. I saw him fall, and would have avenged him,
had not the traitress done justice on herself by plunging from the
dizzy height, ending her vile career by death. I drew him from
the battlements to a secret vault beneath, where for days he hath
remained concealed alike from friend or foe ; the fools who

levelled both keep and tower in dust Utile thought that every
stone which fell but added to my master's safety, by hiding the
entrance to his concealment. Thou knows the rest."

"A Jewess ! " exclaimed the old man, endeavouring to suppress
his agitation ; " how came one of our nation to raise her rebellious
hand against a Christian's life ? But thou hast answered me ; thou
spokes of jealousy — knowest thou the maiden's name ? "

Rachel," replied the Norman ; " she Alas the daughter of the
chief Rabbi of Rouen ; my lord took her at the sacking of the city,
when Duke Robert seized it from the French. For awhile she was
all in all, but at last became so jealous, that his love soon tired ; too
much fondness fatigues us in a woman : it is the chasing of the
deer-ives nleasvire to the hitter : few prize the game which is so

easily won."

A half-suppressed groan broke from the bosom of the old man
when he heard the name of the unfortunate being who had been
alike the victim of her own passions and Robert of Artois' cruelty.
With a violent effort of self-control he mastered his emotion, and
pointed to the men who had borne the wounded noble to his house,
to remove the cloaks in which he had been wrapped. Brantone —
for such was the name of the esquire — would have started had he
seen the fierce glance of hate which flashed from the eyes of the
leech when the pale features of the wounded man first met his
view— the basilisk's alone could have been more fearful. Drawing
a small silver probe from the case of instruments which he wore
suspended by his side, he proceeded to examine the wound,
which was situated in the lower part of the throat, just between
the juncture of the neck-piece and the coat of mail."

Has thy master no friends or kinsmen near," demanded the
Jew, " in whom he can confide ? "

I know but one," replied Brantone ; *' the prior of the
Dominicans — his uncle by the mother's side ; all else have failed
him."

Send for him quickly, then," resumed the old man ; " for in
twenty-four hours he must answer for his sins. All human aid is
vain. The blow hath been too deeply struck for human aid to save
him ; and I would not, for the world, a Christian noble should
expire beneath my roof."

Dog ! " said the soldier, raising his hand to strike him, " were
it a palace, he would honour it."

Abram started back, and drew a long, sharp-pointed weapon from
his bosom, and calmly awaited the attack of the infuriated esquire,
who paused, half-ashamed of his own violence, and half-awed by
the calm attitude of the aged man before him, who seemed so
bowed by years that he felt he could crush him with a breath.

Back ! " exclaimed the Jew ; " for did the blood of thousands
circle in thy veins, thy death were instant. Willingly I would not

take thy life ; for the fierce storm which once raged here is now at
peace. A blow would thaw the frozen barriers of my blood, and
spread, like Etna's lava, desolation around."

Patience, old man ! " cried the superstitious Norman ; " I did
not mean to harm thee. Let there be peace between us."

Fear not," resumed Abram ; " I am cool — quite cool. Reptiles
only sting without discernment. Approach, young man," he added,
willing to increase the impression he had already made upon the
terrors of the strong soldier ; " nay, fear me not. Observe how
wisdom may contend with strength — how palsied age may bid
defiance to the force of youth. Look on this tiny instrument —
observe it well ; 'tis formed of that precious steel which in the
East men prize far more than gold. Tempered in fires lit first by
nature's hand, then quenched in snows coeval with the world, the
slender point inflicts no gaping wound, but a slight puncture
merely — a sempstress's needle would give as deep a scratch ; but

the point is venomed — anointed with Enough, this land breeds

not the reptile from whose sting 'twas ta'en."

It might serve thee against one," doggedly answered Brantone,
struggling to conceal his terrors, " but would be useless against our
numbers, were we inclined to outrage."

Thou would'st not be that one," said the leech with an
accent of cold contempt ; " but I am armed, were it against
thousands. Fearing not death, I have surrounded my lone hearth
with him. Norman, there's not a step within these walls but hides
a grave ; one blow," he added, catching up an ebony staff, and
pointing to a globe of coarse glass suspended from the ceiling, " and
a storm more fearful than the simoom's breath would shatter these
strong-built walls, and tear their inmates limb from quivering limb.
Away ! " he added ; " thou knowest my power — knowest how little
the old leech fears thee. Away, and do my bidding to the prior.
Tell him, when four-and-twenty hours shall pass, his nephew's
sleep will be eternal. I have stanched many a wound — recalled
the fleeting life to many a lance-pierced breast ; but here e'en
Abram's skill must fail."

Whether the physician spoke from really conscious power, or
from his knowledge of the human heart, so prone to superstition, it
would perhaps be difficult to decide. Certain it is, that he possessed
vast knowledge, with some charlatanism mixed with it. His words,
however, produced the desired effect upon his hearers — ruffians
who, under ordinary circumstances, would have desired no better
sport than to ill-treat and persecute a Jew. Without a single word,
-they retired from the house, nor breathed freely till they found
themselves beneath the shadow of the church, where alone, according
to the superstition of the age, no evil power could approach
them.

Praise be to our Lady ! " exclaimed one of the men, devoutly

crossing himself, "we are safe from yon den of sin. I would
rather have another such a siege at Filby than pass an hour in it.
Think you, sir squire, it is a Christian's part to leave our master in
his keeping ? 'Tis true his body is past caring for, but then his
soul ? "

Pooh ! " answered Brantone ; " his uncle, the worthy prior, will
care for that ; the old sinner will be too well paid to play him
false ; the Chi-ch would know how to deal with him, should the
Jew attempt aught against his salvation."

"Ay, ay," interrupted a third ; "leave the Church alone to deal
with infidels and sorcerers ; a sprinkling of holy water would take
the devil from out of the best of them. I saw the Archbishop of
^oueii lately burn three of them ; they were fine robust fellows
when they went into prison, and fouglii with their guards like
troopers, bit the Church soon tamed them ; they walked on the
morning of their execution as meekly to the stake as a lamb does
to the slaughter-house, and sang their own funeral service as piously
as any monk of them all."

Our master, I tell you again, is safe," interrupted the esquire,
who well knew his companion's tediousness when once mounted
upon his favourite hobby — sorcerers and infidels. " 'Tis time that
Ave should separate ; I must to the holy prior, who will doubtless
repay our fidelity to his nephew with something moi-e solid than
benedictions, and you to your hiding-place in Filby woods. When
all is over we can pass to Normandy, where a good lance never
lacks employment, or a good sword need hang rusty in its scabbard."
With these words the group separated ; the men to regain their
boat, and the esquire to the distant monastery of the Dominicans,
where dwelt the uncle of the unworthy Robert of Artois.

As the party left the house of the Jew, the old man carefully
closed the iron-bound door, and secured it by a massive chain and
many a well-forged bolt ; then, raising his lamp from the stone
floor, where he had placed it, he slowly directed his steps to the
chamber where he had left the wounded man. Going to a small
cabinet, he carefully drew from it various balsams and dressings,
and spread them on the table in the middle of the room. To have
gazed upon him, few would have suspected the storm of passions
raging in his breast, his manner was so calm, his actions so deliberate.
A slight impatient quivering only in his fingers, something
like the half-clutch of the impatient vulture's claw, might have
indicated to a very close observer that his office was not one of
love, but a ministry of hate. Cautiously he cleansed the wound,
and pom-ed in the healing styptic, bound the throat, and then prepared
the draught for his exhausted patient.

Precious elixir ! " he murmured, " few in this island have ever
tasted of thy healing virtues. I shall never more behold the
flowers from which thy subtle essence was distilled. Little did I

dream, when first in Syria's land of wisdom I prepared it, that I
should ever waste it on my bitterest foe. But he must live," he
added, fiercely, between his teeth ; " live for a vengeance unheard of
until now ; for a vengeance which alone can expiate a wrong like
mine."

The sweet perfume of the balsam filled the chamber as it flowed
into the cup. Highly as the Jew prized it, he poured it with no
niggard hand ; so true is it that hate can sometimes be as liberal as
love. With almost a mother's care, he raised the head of the
wounded man, and poured the rich draught down his throat, then
gently replaced him on his pillow, and, with his finger fixed upon
his pulse, watched by him till he slept.

As soon as the deep breathing of Robert of Artois convinced the
old man that the medicine had taken effect, he rose from his seat
beside him, and walking to the foot of the couch, gazed upon him
for a few moments in fearful silence.

Yes," he exclaimed, " the God of Israel, though slow, is just ;
the destroyer of my fair and innocent child, like a helpless infant,
is prostrate at my mercy. Rachel," he added passionately, '* why
did not I sooner know thy destiny ? " For years so near thee, yet
ignorant of the casket which contained my treasure. I would have
ransomed all thy tears with pearls : as it is, they shall be repaid
thee by his groans. He scorned thee, too, poor girl ! He shall
have scorn for scorn, become his brother nobles' jest, be scourged
from the halls of his fathers, like some vile impostor, and die
despairing and accurst. If I could not save my offspring, I can at
least avenge her. But stay," he added, " something the Nazarene
spoke of thy heroic death. Thy bones must not bleach amidst the
ruins of thy tyrant's hold ! No Christian foot shall e'er profane
them. I will myself go forth while thy destroyer sleeps, and, as
the patriarch of old sought for the body of his son, "so will I seek
Rachel, lost child, for thine."

The bereaved parent struck a gong suspended by the side of his
cabinet : its low musical sound was echoed through the house, and
answered by a being Who seemed half-giant and half-dwarf, so
disproportionate was the contrast between his height and the vast
breadth of his shoulders, the length of his arms, and the shortness
of his legs, the muscles of both of which indicated agility and
strength. Although somewhat advanced in years, he was far less
aged than his master, whom he looked upon with a love and veneration
amounting to idolatry, not only as a high priest of his nation,
but as one of the wisest and best of created beings. To him his
will was law ; and he would as soon have thought of questioning
the slightest expression of it, as of disputing the Law of Moses, or
the authenticity of the Pentateuch, unlike most persons of his
peculiar formation, there was nothing repulsive in his features ; on
the contrary, they were indicative not only of benevolence and

intellect, but were distinguished by manly beauty. From his
earliest childhood he had lived in the family of Abram, had
partaken with him of persecution and sorrow, as well as shared the
brief moments of sunshine in the old man's chequered, wandering
life.

Ezra," said his master, " hast thou heard of the destruction of
Filby hold, the castle of the bold, bad man, who now lies sleeping
here ? "

I have, father of the faithful race of Israel," answered the
dwarf. " Eli, who purchased many vessels and much goodly plate
of the spoilers, told me a strange tale concerning it. It seems the
castle was betrayed into the hands of his enemies by some wanton
daughter of our race, the discarded paramour of his fierce lusts."

Speak not thus harshly of her," interrupted his master ; " for,
oh ! she was my child — flesh of my flesh, blood of my
blood ; my long-lost, only child ! When," he added, bitterly,
shall Israel efface the stains of her captivity among the heathen ? "

The dwarf was struck to the heart by the tone of anguish in the
old man's voice ; he, too, had known and loved the erring Rachel,
had watched her little footsteps when a child, heard her repeat her
infant prayers, and when her ripening beauties opened to womanhood,
guarded her with a parent's love, with almost a jealous lover's
care. Her loss, which occurred during the siege of Rouen, was
scarcely more felt by her father than himself. Madly he rushed
from street to street, calling frantically upon the name of Rachel,
and proffering sums so fabulous for her recovery that all who heard
him deemed him mad. The sight of (the being who had caused so
much misery to himself and master excited his fury, and with a
spring he bounded towards the couch, and doubtless .would have
strangled him, had not the voice of Abram restrained him from his
purpose.

Hold, Ezra ! " he cried ; " would that be vengeance ? "

No !" answered the dwarf, turning his eyes from the sleeper,
as if fearful to trust them further.

Leave him to me," resumed the old man ; " at present we must
go forth, whilst night favours our design. My Rachel's bones shall
not be left to be trampled on by Christian feet. Bring our cloaks,
and let the boat be ready."

Carefully securing the house, the disguised Israelites made their
way to the water side, from whence a boat, rowed by the strong
arms of Ezra, took them to Acte, where horses were easily procured
to Filby. Abram found, by inquiries from one of his people, whom
the thirst of gain led to remain all night about the ruins, that his
daughter's remains had been interred, by order of Ulrick, under an
oak, at a bowshot from the spot where she had fallen. By the aid
of his companions, it was quickly removed ; and the dwarf, taking
it in his arms, mounted with it on horseback, the living and the

dead both being covered by a cloak. Daylight had dawned when

they reached the house.

. * # * «

The lordly prior of the Dominicans was seated at his morning
repast, when a servitor announced the arrival of the esquire of his
nephew, whose supposed loss he bore with wonderful equanimity,
although the world had previously given him credit for entertaining
a sincere affection for him. The order to admit him was
immediately given, for he hoped to find him the bearer of certain
letters which had passed between himself and his relative, the
discovery of which Avould seriously compromise him with Herbert
de Lozenga, his spiritual superior. Hastily draining the remainder
of the spiced hippocras in the flagon before him, he wiped his full
lips with his linen kerchief, and prepared to receive him. Bran-tone,
as was usual when approaching churchmen of his rank, bent
the knee as he entered the apartment, exclaiming as he did so —

*' Your benediction, reverend father ! your benediction ! "

Pax Dei sit semper vohiscum ! " muttered the priest, at the same
time swallowing the remaining morsel of the manchet bread. " Hast
brought me any letters from my nephew ? "

Alas ! reverend father, you must be aware that he is unable to
write."

I should think so," drily answered the prior, who imagined
that the esquire was trying the depths of his feelings, and the
soldier on his part supposing that the uncle had been informed of
his nephew's almost miraculous escape.

It will be some time before you will hear from him again."

I should hope so," muttered the priest, not altogether pleased
with what he considered Brantone's familiarity.

Besides, even if he could find strength to write, it would be
difficult to find a messenger in his present abode."

I should think so, friend," replied the ecclesiastic, crossing
himself ; " but answer me. Did your master, previous to his death,
confide any papers to your charge ? If so, quickly let me have
them. Poor fellow," he added, " his fate should be a warning tous
all how we indulge in our sinful passions, or engage in dangerous
enterprise."

How, reverend father ? " exclaimed the soldier. " You are not
yet aware that your nephew, Robert of Artois, still lives ! "

Lives ! " echoed the uncle, with an expression of anything but
agreeable surprise ; " and what does he want with me ? Doubtless
gold — more gold. I had need hold the primacy, and my poor priory
to boot, to supply half his extravagance ; it hath nearly ruined me
already."

My noble master will never need gold more : he is wounded
unto death."

And where is he concealed ? "



*' In the house of the Jew leech, Abram, whose skill none can
question, however they may his honesty. He will not answer for
his life more than for four-and-twenty hours. He must not die,"
added the man, " without the Church's aid."

Doubtless ! doubtless ! " muttered the priest. " I will despatch
Brother Felix — he is zealous and discreet ; besides, I will order
Masses to be said for his repose. The Church, though poor in
worldly wealth, is rich in spiritual grace."

'^ Had you not better shrive him yourself ? " demanded the
esquire, bluntly. " Methinks it were but kind to do him that last
good office, considering he is your sister's son."

I enter the house of an unbelieving Jew ? Anathema ! Think
cn the scandal, my dear son. Should th? vxiQv of the Dominicans
be seen to enter such a den of wickedness, it would be a blister on
my name."

Better that, than other ears should listen to the confession of
your nephew," replied Brantone, who began to see through and
despise the selfish nature of the churchman's fears. " You know
best what has passed between your kinsman and yourself ; besides,
none but you can prevail on the curate of St. Julian to receive his
body into consecrated ground. Sir Prior, you must come."

Well, I suppose I must. Blessed St. Dominic ! shield thy unworthy
servant — lead him from this labyrinth ; and if ever again —
But how," he added, interrupting himself in his invocation, when
he observed the soldier regarding him — " how, without scandal, am
I to get there ? "

Of course, reverend father, you are free to leave the convent at
your pleasure."

Certes I am," answered the prior.

Nothing more easy," continued Brantone. " As soon as nightfall,
conceal your habit in my horseman's cloak ; I will be your
escort to the Jew's, where you may give my master a cast of your
holy office, and none the Adviser ; long ere the matin bell, you can
return in safety to your nest."

Thou mayest he has not many hours to live ? " said the priest,
regarding him with a keen glance.

Thou mayst take the Jew's word for it, father, if not mine."

Then I will go," said the prior, firmly, " and trust my person to
thy escort. Return at evening's close; — and here," he added, drawing
a piece of gold from his pouch, " is something for thine entertainment
; but first go to the curate of St. Julian's, and tell him in my
name to meet me at the house of the accursed Jew. Fortunately
his cure is a dependency upon our priory, and he may look for
advancement at our hands. Heaven speed thee, my son ; be
fortunate, and, above all, discreet."

The esquire bowed reverentially to the dignitary, pocketed the
coin, and quitted the apartment.

N 2

At the hour following the curfew, the reverend uncle was
seated by the side of his wounded nephew in the lone house ,of
Abram. Contrary to his expectation, he found the wounded man
apparently recovering from his hurt ; his voice, though low, was
clear, and his eye bright as ever, although his cheek was pale.

Dog of an unbelieving race," said the ecclesiastic, who stood
calmly beside the couch of his patient, " didst thou not send me
word the days of my nephew were numbered, nay, his very hours ?
and yet I find him strong ? "

My words are of truth," replied the leech ; " the strength thou
seest is but the last rallying of life — a flash before the lamp expires.
The sun which gilds the coming day will shine upon his corpse."

^'Liar ! " shouted Robert, nf Artois? * " I hSY6 bSSH WClind^d n69:r6r
to death than this ! I shall live — I will live for vengeance ! I
will be a brand to thy accursed race ! My enemies shall bite the
dust before me ! Exert thy skill — thou hast not expended all thy
nostrums. Stretch the utmost effort of thine art ; mine uncle here
will glut thine avarice with gold, pour it like water on thy thirsty
palm ; he hath my hoarded treasure in his keeping ; all shall be
thine, save but my fleeting life ! "

The dignitary winced uneasily upon his seat, and muttered something
about his nephew raving.

'• It shall be tried," murmured the old man, " not so much for
the gold as for the pleasing your reverend kinsman."

Abram left the room for a few minutes ; when he returned he
bore a small silver cup in his hand, which contained a highly
balsamic liquid, and offered it to the lips of the impatient knight.

'' Drink ! " he exclaimed ; " 'tis thy last chance of life — a frail one
it is true. Should it fail, all human aid is hopeless ; a few, a very
few, short moments will decide."

Robert of Artois eagerly drained the draught, and sank exhausted
upon his pillow. The old man quietly took his seat beside him.
Something like a smile of satisfaction was visible on his features,
as his long, shai-p, bony hand encircled the wrist of the drinker.
For more than a quarter of an hour he watched his patient in
silence, accustomed to veil every emotion of his heart under a
mask of cold impassibility. He hid, even from the keen churchman,
the fierce joy he felt as the pulse beat fainter and fainter
beneath the pressure of his finger. Seeing that the draught had
operated, he rose from his seat, and whispered to the prior —

All that human skill can accomplish hath been done ; what
now remains rests between the priest, his conscience, and his God.
In an hour Robert of Artois will slumber with the dead."

ril have no priest ! " shrieked Robert, as Abram left the
chamber. " I call upon the fiends to save me ! Can I not make a
compact but for one year of life ? I'll give my wealth, possessions
my soul," he added, " but to live ? Will not the tempter hear,

or is it but a fable ? Is there no heaven, hell, angel, or demon to
assist me ? "

The Jew smiled as he withdrew yet farther from the chamber.
The despairing curses of the destroyer of his child fell like music
on his ear. They were the promise of the completion of his deeply-meditated
vengeance.

The hour, as the fetch had predicted, had scarcely passed, when
the prior summoned the curate of St. Julian's to his presence ; he
was followed both by Brantone and Abram. It was clear, from the
livid cheek of the churchman, that his nephew's confession had
been a fearful one, for the blood had entirely forsaken his florid
face and the perspiration hung: iu thick drops upon his clouded
brow. The apparition of the corpse was yet More terrible | ths
teeth were firmly set, the eyes distended as if they would leap
from the head, and its fingers entangled in the fragments of the
coverlet, which had been torn in its last fearful agony. So terrible
was the appearance of the body, that all but the Jew turned from it
in disgust.

Brother," said the dignitary, addressing his subordinate with
that tone of .blandness with which a superior intimates a command
which the conscience of the hearer should reject, " thou knowest
of the misfortune which hath fallen on my house ; my nephew is
no more. Praise to our Lady ! he died penitent. See the body
secretly interred this very night within the vaults of the chapelry,
and in the morning visit me at my priory. We have long watched
thy zeal and diligence in the fold of which we are but an unworthy
shepherd, and it is our intention to remove thee to a more extended
field of usefulness. For thee, Jew," he added, " the worthy curate
on his return will pay thee for thy skill and kindness shown
towards the deceased ; although the former was but valueless. I
need not tell thee to be silent on the events of which thou hast
been a witness. Remember this — I caution not twice. Brantone
will escort me on my return. Farewell, and benedicite I "

Abram and the priest both bowed low, as the prior, without
casting a glance upon the couch where lay the body of his nephew,
quitted the apartment, and hurried from the house. That very
night, Robert of Artois, the noble Norman, whose sword had been
she terror of the country, whose exactions desolated the hearths of
many a peasant and petty franklin, was consigned to what the
world deemed his last resting-place, by the hands of two Jews ; no
knightly banner waved over his remains ; no gilded escutcheon
marked his resting-place.

He will rest securely there," said the curate, as he turned the
key in the massive lock of the vault ; " his funeral rites must be
celebrated at some fitting time. Farewell, friends ! I will convey
the prior's benefaction to you in the morning ; that once done,
forget that we have met."

And the pious man pursued his way towards his quiet cell,
wondering as he went at his good fortune. The Israelites dogged
his footsteps till they saw him housed, and retraced their pathway
to the church.

CHAPTER XII.

The two Israelites cautiously entered the church, and groped
their way to the steps which conducted to the vaults where rested
the body of Robert of Artois. It was not till they had descended
that they ventured to light the torch which the dwarf had brought
with him for that purpose ; for the expedition ihev were enffaa^ed
in was ole of danger, should any curious eye discover their proceedings.
The superstitious as well as religious feeling of the age
being opposed to the mere entrance of any of their hated nation
within the consecrated precincts even in open day, much more so
at the lone hour of night, when, according to popular belief, pale
witchcraft celebrated its fearful rites — their mere presence under
such circumstances was sufficient to condemn them to the stake.
The body of the knight had been deposited in an old stone coffin,
which had previously served some former inmate, but which in
the revolution of time had been despoiled of its original tenant ;
the rudely-sculptured cross upon its lid indicated that it had been
intended as the final resting-place of an ecclesiastic :

Some lordly abbot or some mitred priest,
Whose band had grasped the crosier's holy staff,
Or scattered benedictions on the crowd."

Help me to raise the lid," whispered Abram ; " the carrion maybe
stifled else within its narrow cell. Holy Jacob ! how these
Nazarene dogs guard their vile ashes from their heir, the worm !
Their pride revolts lest their polluted dust should mingle with its
purer kindred earth. So much for Christian vanity in death ! "

By the aid of Ezra's powerful arm the lid of the sarcophagus was
soon removed, and the features of the supposed corpse once more
exposed to the sweet air of heaven. The elder Israelite gazed upon
his destined victim with an air of ferocious joy, as he placed his
hand upon his pallid brow, and felt the gentle moisture which
already began to ooze from the sleeper's skin ; for our readers,
doubtless, have already suspected that the draught which the leech
had administered to Robert of Artois in the presence of the prior
was nothing more than a powerful soporific, the wound he had
received being anything but likely to cause his death, although
from neglect and loss of blood it had occasioned considerable
exhaustion.

We must be brief," said Ezra, disturbing the old man's reverie
of vengeance ; " day soon will dawn ; and it is not good men's eyes

Should gaze upon us bearing the body to the house — shall I raise
him ? "

Abram made a sign of assent, and his companion soon removed
the sleeper from his recumbent position ; and, with the assistance
of the old man, was proceeding to envelop him in a cloak brought
with them for the purpose, when a deep voice startled them. The
curate had recollected that the body had been interred with several
articles of value, which the prior, in the agitation of the moment,
had either forgotten or not thought it worth while to remove ;
amongst them a chain of gold and precious signet ring had
attracted his avarice, and he was returning to the vault to secure
them, when he was startled by the sight of the two Jews, whom he
doubted not were there with the same intention. So servile was
the respect and deference which all of their race paid to the
humblest member of his sacred profession, so accustomed was
he, in trampling upon them, to find an unresisting neck, that
the idea of any possible danger to himself never once crossed his
imagination.

Dogs ! " he exclaimed ; " is it thus ye abuse the mercy of our
holy Church, which suffers ye to draw your polluted breath in
Christian lands in peace ? Violate the dead ! break open the
sepulchre of a noble knight for the sake of the treasure he can
no longer defend ! Alas ! alas ! what will not the thirst of gold
lead men to ? " •

Especially priests," interrupted Ezra, in a cold, sneering tone ;
the reverend father measures the strength of others' conscience
by the weakness of his own. It were a curious speculation to
decide what brought him here."

The curate coloured with mingled shame and anger at the implied
accusation, which a secret monitor whispered him was just ;
still, as no proof existed of his intentions, he answered boldly, with
the assumed confidence of insulted innocence :

My motives are known to Heaven ; I parley not with unbelievers
of the duties of mine office, which alone have brought
me here. You will answer to the Church for this outrage on its
laws — this robbery of the dead. Infidels, I arrest ye both."

A low laugh, like the hiss of a serpent, rang through the vault
as Ezra sprang upon the speaker, caught him in his giant arms, and
forced him upon his knees beside the empty coffin ; then twining
his long bony fingers in the hair of the priest, he kept him like an
infant immovable in the position he had placed him in. For the
first time the intruder's heart beat wildly, and he lost his haughty
tone.

What would you, masters ? " he cried, his cheek becoming
paler as he spoke. " The crime may be atoned without the price
of blood. Holy Church is not relentless, and a slight fin, perchance



Ha, ha, ha ! a fine ! " exclaimed his captor. " The Christian
dog prates as if he were in the presbytery, and we captives and
bound before him. A fine ! how holy Chm^ch loves gold ! — ha, ha !
a fine ! — how much, how much ? "

Mercy ! " exclaimed the curate, now seriously alarmed for his
life, which, after such an outrage upon his person, he could no
longer deem secure. " I'll be silent ! — bind me by what oath you
will — upon the Evangile, nay, on the consecrated Host itself : only
spare my life ! — I'll show you," he added, " where the sacred
vessels of the church are all concealed ; they are of gold — pure
gold. Dogs ! you will not dare to shed a Christian's blood ? "

Is it redder than a Jew's ? " demanded Ezra, still keeping him,
despite his frantic struggles, on his knees. "Father," he added,
addressing his companion in a tone of deep respect, " decide ; day
will soon break. What shall be his fate ? "

Death ! " said Abram, who had listened to the curate's offers of
betraying the vessels of the church with contempt. " In the oath
of a false priest there is no reliance ; in the heart of a coward mercy
hath no dwelling. Once free he would break his vow of secrecy,
and laugh at the credulous Jews as he consigned them to the
flames."

As thou art a man — as thou art human," shrieked the priest,
have pity ! "

Am I a man ? " replied the Hebrew, in a low, stern voice.
Why am I hunted, then, like a vile beast of prey, by those who
call themselves my fellow men ? E'en from his mother's womb,
the Jew is made the scoff of a superstitious rabble, less brutal than
their teachers ; his blood is thirsted for, e'en as the traveller lost in
the desert thirsted for the well. Ye have made earth no more a
heritage for its once chosen people. Ye reckon us like herds, yet
hold us in far less estimation ; ye rend the flesh from off our aching
bones, doom, despoil us, beat us, rob us of our children and our
wealth. In your Christian pride, ye trample us like potsherds
'neath your feet, yet, in the hour of vengeance, prate to us of
humanity and mercy."

"Pity!" murmured the fainting man, already half-dead with
terror.

Pity ! " iterated the Israelite, in a tone of scorn ; " were we in
open day, and I grovelling like a worm beneath thy feet, what pity
wouldst thou render me .? What would be thy answer to my
prayers and tears ? Scoffs and bitter mockeries. And why ? —
because chance made thee a Christian and me a Jew. Still it shall
not be said that Abram, without necessity, was cruel. As gently as
the shadow of the destroying angel's wing fell on the sleeping
heathen's host, so death shall fall on thee, I sacrifice thy life not
to my vengeance, but to my safety, priest."

The speaker drew from his vest the envenomed instrument with

which, on a previous occasion, he had menaced the esquire of
Robert of Artois, and with a firm hand inflicted a slight puncture
upon the neck of the kneeling man, immediately below the left
ear ; so small was the orifice that but a single drop of blood trickled
from the wound, although the effect was mortal. The head of the
priest fell gently upon his breast, as the hand of Ezra was withdrawn
; and, with a gentle sigh, the spirit fled from its earthly
tabernacle for ever.

How shall we dispose of the Nazarene's body ? " demanded the
dwarf.

I have bethought me," said his master. " Clothe him in the
garments of the sleeper, and place him in the empty sepulchre.
Should suspicion lead men to search the tomb, they will find, at
least, a mouldering corpse, and the ring and chain of Robert Artois
his gown and cowl we must reduce to ashes."

'Tis well," exclaimed Ezra ; " but if the seekers come soon they
will never take the features of the fat priest for the stately face of
the Norman knight, although the colour of their hair and beards
are not unlike. How the craven proffered oaths and gold to save
his life ! I question if he would have hesitated to have thrown
his soul into the bargain."

Silence ! " said Abram, in a tone of calm authority. " Sport
not with the dead ; we are no more its judges. As for the discovery
thou protest of, let but twelve hours elapse, and the eye
even of the mother who bore him would fail to recognise the
inmate of yon coffin. To thy work, Ezra, and perform it diligently,"
he added ; " for it is a task in which I cannot aid thee ;
the corpse of an unbeliever would pollute the hand of a sacred
Levite."

The bodies of the living and the dead were quickly stripped by
the dwarf, and arrayed each in the other's clothes. The latter was
then lifted into the coffin from which the former had been so
recently removed. Although so lately deceased, traces of decomposition
already began to be visible upon the features of the priest ;
and it was with a feeling of perfect security that Ezra closed the
ponderous lid.

Now raise the knight upon thy shoulders, and follow me,"
exclaimed the elder Israelite. " Once in the church, I will extinguish
the torch ; darkness will best protect us."

Daylight had already begun to dawn when the two Hebrews,
unseen by mortal eyes, left the profaned sanctuary of St. Julian,
and regained the secure shelter of their lonely habitation.

* * * *

Three days after the marriage of Ulrick and Mirvan, the two

bridegrooms were summoned, together with most of the Norman

and Saxon nobles, to attend a council to be held by Herbert de

Lozenga, at the episcopal palace, where matters of grave import

were to be discussed, affecting nothing less than the succession to
the Crown. By some means, the share which William of Normandy
had taken in the abduction of the two brides had got whispered
about — probably from some of the garrison of Filby ; and men's
minds were violently disposed against him. As soon as the
principal personages who had been summoned were assembled, the
prelate who presided exposed to them the villainy of the prince ;
his father's well-known disposition in his favour, contrary to the
rights of his elder brother Robert ; and concluded by demanding if
they were willing to assist in placing a tyrant on the throne who
had proved so reckless of their rights and honours, whose deceit
and cruelty were known to all, and whose reign could hardly fail
of proving destructive alike to Norman as to Saxon independence.

Never, by Heaven ! " exclaimed Ulrick ; *' let others bow a
vassal knee to this unsightly robber ; mine ne'er shall bend
before him. If England must own a foreign king, let him at least
be one whom primogeniture hath pointed out the Conqueror's
natural successor. The isle," he added, " is not a petty fief, to be
transferred at his caprice or pleasure. Robert of Normandy shall
be my sovereign, let who will else acknowledge William's title to
the crown. Nobles, it is for you to say if I have spoken well."

You have," answered Mirvan and Odo of Caen, with one voice,
both equally excited as himself by the unmanly outrage which had
been offered to Matilda and Isabel. " Long live our valiant brother
in arms, and future king. Prince Robert of Normandy ! "

Edda and the rest of the nobles, entranced — the former by his
love for his grandson, and the latter by the example of two such
powerful leaders as Mirvan and Odo — joined in the shout ; and all
but Eborard, the wily prior of the Dominicans, added their voices
to the cry, which was enthusiastically repeated amid the clash of
swords, which the assembly waved above their heads in token of
adherence and fidelity to the cause of their future sovereign.

Robert, who was present, gracefully bowed his thanks. He
could, despite the natural familiarity of his manners, assume,
when occasion required it, both the language and the bearing
of a prince. His words were brief, but to the purpose. He
pledged himself — should he by their aid defeat the unnatural
disposition of his father in his brother's favour — to govern justly,
confirm the existing rights of the nobility, and look upon his
Norman and Saxon subjects but as children of the same great
family. When he had finished speaking, the shout again echoed
through the hall — " Long live Robert of Normandy ! "

Words," said Herbert de Lozenga, rising as soon as the tumult
had subsided, " are but air, and leave no impress of their purport.
Let all here prove that they are men who dare maintain by acts the
resolution they have spoken. Here is a deed," he added, throwing
at the same time a parchment which he drew from his breast upon

the table, " by which we bind ourselves to venture our lives and
fortunes, lands and honours, in the cause. I'll be the first to sign
it ; and may Heaven reward me for the act, as I believe it to be
just and holy ! "

No sooner had the prelate affixed his signature than the nobles
crowded round the table, impatient which should be the first to
follow his example ; even the prior, who saw no hope of escape,
and who began to look on "William's cause as hopeless, did as the
rest ; George of Erpingham and Walter Tyrrel were the last to
sign. As leaders of the forces of the bishop, they had both been
summoned to the meeting. As soon as the ceremony was completed,
Herbert de Lozenga folded the parchment and placed it in
his bosom.

"' Thanks, nobles, vavasor, and knights ! " exclaimed Robert,
his eyes flashing with the anticipation of a crown. " It is to
you that I shall owe my throne ; and, trust me, your future
sovereign "

Our actual king ! " interrupted the prelate, sinking on his knee
and kissing the speaker's hand. " Your royal father sleeps his last
sleep. William the Conqueror, of all his vast possessions, retains
but six feet of earth ; he expired ten days since at the monastery of
St. Gervas. May God assoil his soul in peace."

So unexpected was the intelligence, that for a few moments
those who heard it were minute with surprise. News did not then
fly with the celerity of the present day ; none but the speaker and
Robert suspected even the monarch's illness. As soon as
they recovered themselves, every knee was bent to the earth, and
one simultaneous cry arose of " God save the king ! "

Sire," exclaimed Mirvan, " the present is the time for action,
not for words. Might I presume to counsel you, with the dawn,
surrounded by your faithful nobles, you must commence your
march towards London. Your brother has many friends, active ashe
is ambitious. A single day's delay might prejudice your cause ;
therefore, again I say, on to London."

A smile passed between Herbert de Lozenga and the prince ; for
no other, except his gaoler, was aware of the captivity of William,
so faithfully had the secret of his arrest been kept by those who
had undertaken its execution,

Small danger from our brother," replied Robert, " since our
good friend and faithful counsellor (bowing to the bishop) holds
him in safe ward. We can arrange our differences Avithout an
appeal to arms. Whei;e the lion's skin will not avail him," he
added, "William can assume the fox's ; doubt not but he will
listen to such reasons as we offer."

And may I ask your highness," demanded Odo of Caen — for
the kings of England did not, till a much later date, assume the
title of majesty — "what terms you intend proposing to the prince ?"

The plain fulfilment of our father's will," replied Robert,
'' simply substituting my name for his. England for the elder
born, Normandy for the younger : they are not too hard, methinks,
since both by right of primogeniture are mine."

And what security will your highness exact," said Edda, " that
he keep faith with you ? "

His knightly oath," said the prince, " and my own good sword
will prove sufficient pledges for his faith,"

There was a pause, for not one present but was struck with the
worthlessness of the first, and the little reliance which was to
be placed upon the second part of the security. Thoughts
dangerous to the captive's safety were passing in the minds of
many, yet no one was found hardy enough to give utterance to the
suggestions of his mind. Odo of Caen was the first to break the
silence which oppressed them, and make himself the interpreter of
the thoughts of all.

Prince," he began, " there are men to whom oaths are as water
or the changing wind — men whom no ties, however sacred, can
hold — men whom the slightest breath of passion can induce to
break their deep-sworn faith, William is one of these, A
nation's peace, the safety of your fi-ends, and the stability of the
throne, demand a surer pledge than these,"

I understand," replied Robert, his cheek blanching as he spoke ;
you mean the tomb. But no, rather would I forego the crown
itself, wander a simple knight the wide world through, seek
fortune in the desert, than stain my hand in my unnatural brother's
blood. True he has wronged me ; but the same womb bore us.
True he would rob me of my birthright ; yet I have never read that
Esau slew his brother. My hand would lack the strength to grasp
the sceptre were it stained in William's blood. Think not of it
more."

It needs not, prince," said Walter Tyrrel, who already looked
upon his captive's fortunes as for ever set, and who was anxious to
render himself acceptable to the new monarch. " William is under
my guard ; leave it to me, and he shall never cross your path again."

Boy ! " exclaimed the prince, " greatness is ever cursed by ready
tools like thee ! Thou dost belie thy blood by such degrading
service | we had thoughts to have held thee near our person, and
fostered thy career. This proffered baseness changes our intent.
Retire from the council, sir ; thor presume to approach our presence
until summoned. Father," he added, in a whisper to the bishop,
there is a curse upon our race ; the tiger's whelp, reared in the
peaceful fold, betrays its lineage by. its instinctive thirst for blood.
Can the wild legend of our land be true .? Are we indeed Robert
the Devil's brood ? "

Bowing lowly to conceal the rage and mortification but too visible
upon his features, Walter Tyrrel left the apartment. A quiet smile

of Baths action played on the features of the prior of the Dominicans,
as he did so, for he saw that the prince had made an implacable
enemy, and that he himself had found a tool fitted for his purpose,

Wisely hast thou spoken, prince," said Herbert de Lozenga ;
for what blessing could attend a crown bought with a brother's
blood ? But there are other means than oaths to bind this man — a
means to draw the venom from his fangs, yet heare him still with
life. Let him, in an assembly of the nobles, from my hands accept
the priestly tows. No bishop then could crown him, no sword
be drawn for his pretended rights. Once devoted to the altar, the
Church would know well how to guard her own,"

By Rollo, priest, but thou hast hit the mark," exclaimed Robert,
whose heart began to beat freely for the first time since the disposal
of his brother's person had been debated. " William will make a
jovial monk, and many an abbey and fat benefice shall mark our
loving favour."

A murmur of approbation arose amidst the nobles, who saw in
the proposal of the prelate a bloodless solution of their difficulty.
It was finally resolved that on the following day the prisoner
should be brought before them, and compelled to conform himself
to their decision, which the bishop undertook previously to make
him acquainted with ; and with this understanding the council
separated.

As Eborard crossed the cloisters on his way to his litter, he
encountered Walter Tyrrel, who, still smarting under the reproof
he had received, paced their deep shades, meditating schemes of
vengeance. The wily churchman read his purpose in his knit brow
and quick impatient step, and foresaw that his advances would be
gladly met.

Methinks, sir knight," he whispered, " devotion like thine
demands at least some courtesy ; even in its refusal, William had
received its proffer better. Our new-made monarch must feel the
crown securely on his brow ere he ventured to spurn the hand
that might have rent it from him."

That might have rent it from lira ! " iterated the excited man ;
that will ! Father, I know thou lowest not this same Robert ; I
marked thy hesitation when the bishop proposed the signing of the
traitorous act. Set but thy foot to mine, and the withered leaf the
wind makes sport of shall not prove more worthless."

What means thou, son ? " demanded the prior, with an air of
well-affected simplicity,

"Thou lowest not this would-be king — this Robert of Normandy ? "

Certes, he hath proved himself scant friend to me or to my
order," replied the priest, with a shrug.

That is as plain as words can say," resumed Tyrrel, " thou
latest him — so I do ; the lightning is not less dangerous because it
slumbers in the thunder-cloud, nor thy hatred less to be feared

because veiled in outward calm and priestly unction. "Wilt thou
join hands with me in this ? "

I will," replied Eborard, in a voice so low that the impetuous
questioner caught the sense of his reply more from the look which
accompanied it than the sound of the words. " Tell me," he added,
how can I aid thee in the enterprise ? Speak in all confidence ;
let there be faith, my son, between us."

I am William's gaoler," answered the traitor, in the same
subdued tone. " Hast thou two fleet steeds within thy stables ? "

I have," said the priest, with a smile of intelligence, for he
began clearly to see Tyrrel purpose ; " and they are both at thy
disposal ; better ne'er bore a knight unto the field ; kings might
mount them to do battle for their crow-ns."

'Tis well, father ! 'tis well ! Let them be waiting saddled at the
city gates. I will find horsemen for them both."

When ? " demanded the churchman.

At midnight ; we have scant time to lose."

The prior bowed his head in token of acquiescence, and requested
to know if the fugitives would require gold for their journey,
which he offered to supply them with, so anxious was he to secure
the success of a project on which his future fortunes hung. His
contentment increased when Tyrrel informed him that he had coin
enough.

But, how — how," he demanded, " will you provide for his
escape ? All else seems easy after that."

Leave it to me," replied the knight ; " long ere the dawn the
prince shall be upon the road to London. Lanfranc, the primate, is
his friend. The citizens will eagerly receive him. Once securely
king, doubt not but William's gratitude will find within the Church
a position more suited to thy services and zeal."

Heaven knows best, my son," said his hearer, trying hard to
look humble and indifferent ; " we court not worldly honours, but
are content to be a humble watch-dog in the fold. Let us not waste
the time in vain discourse," he added, casting at the same time a
hasty glance to see if their conversation was observed, " lest evil
eyes behold us. Keep but thy purpose, and the horses shall not
fail thee. Farewell ! our Lady prosper thy intent ! "

With these words the two conspirators separated — the prior to
find his litter, and Walter Tyrrel to the tower where William of
Normandy, like a caged lion, fretted away the hours of his captivity.


He had not long regained his post, when Herbert de Lozenga
arrived to communicate to his prisoner the decision of his brother
and the nobles. His faithful marshal, George of Erpingham,
attended him.

Tis well, sir knight," said the bishop, as Tyrrel rose and saluted
him ; "you keep good ward. Continue thy services, and the present

cloud upon thy fortune will pass away. How fares our prisoner ?
Impatient, doubtless, of his durance ? "

As a wolf caught in a springe, my lord ; but I exchange few
words with him. Curses and threats are sweetest words with him.
My own temper is none of the most patient, and I avoid him, lest I
should forget the respect due to his birth, as well as to his defenceless
state ; an he escape, let our new monarch look to it."

Small fear of that," replied the prelate ; " our towers are high,
and you keep faithful guard. After to-morrOw's evening, come tome
in my oratory ; I have much to speak with you upon, as well
as reconcile you to your offended prince, in whose good favour,
after all, you have a pleader whom you wot not of."

The knight merely bowed his acquiescence, and the speaker, with
his companion, entered the prison.

'Tis the last time," murmured Tyrrel to himself, " I shall be
forced to wear the mask before him. When next we meet, my
deeds shall make me known ; but till that hour arrives, patience —
patience." And once more he resumed his watch before the
tower.

"William was pacing his chamber with impatient strides when
the churchman and his attendant entered : it was the first time of
their meeting since the moment of his arrest. To one of his restless
character, captivity was galling enough, but uncertainty was
even worse than actual restraint. In the hours of his solitude he
had pondered on its probable result, and formed a thousand
schemes of vengeance on the man whose energy had baffled him ;
he longed for : yet feared the encounter, experience had taught him
he had to deal with one with whom to resolve was to execute. He
felt that he was too dangerous a captive to be lightly loosed. The
prelate felt on his part that he had a difficult mission to fulfil : to
bend an ambitious, proud, and stubborn mind to the resignation of
its long-cherished hopes of rule and ambition. For a moment,
therefore, they regarded each other in silence, measuring, like
skilful wrestlers, each the other's strength. The passionate prisoner
was the first to speak.

So, my lord, you are come at last. I trust it is to implore our
pardon for this strange outrage on your monarch's son. You
have taken a strange way, methinks, to repay our royal father's
favour, by holding his son a captive. Tremble at his wrath when
he shall hear of it ; his indignant hand will rend the mitre from
thy brow, e'en though the Pontiff's self had placed it there."

The vilest slave, the poorest serf," replied Herbert de Lozenga,
unmoved by the prince's threats, " will never more start at the
Conqueror's wrath or fear his frown ; thy father sleeps his last
sleep ; the archangel's trump alone can awaken him."

"Dead ! " exclaimed William, to whom the intelligence, in his
present position, brought tenfold danger. " Dead ! Where is thy

knee, sir priest ? Forgotten thou that thou speaks to England's
king, or do I see a traitor ? "

'* Traitor I am none. My knee hath ah-lady offered earthly
homage to its lawful sovereign, thy elder brother Robert. The
assembled nobles," added the churchman, " have confirmed my
voice ; in two days he marches on to London."

"To be crowned !" shrieked William. "Priest of Belial ! "tis
thou hast plotted this — my witless brother hath not brains to springe
a woodcock with. 'tell me," he added fiercely, " what is the bribe
for which he bought thy soul ? Try if I cannot outbid him.
Wast gold — wast power ? for priests I know, love both. Tell me
ihj price ! — my ransacked kingdom shall be ground to pay it ; thy
voice in England shall be but second to mine o\sti."

Prince," interrupted his visitor, " it is already greater far than
thine, since by my mouth the king thy brother speaks."

I say the traitor Robert Duke of Normandy ! " exclaimed the
prisoner, foaming with impotent passion, and striking his clenched
fist upon the table till the blood trickled from his knuckles ; then,
controlling himself with a violent effort, he added, " and what
would our loving brother with the fool his knavish tool loath
snared ? But I guess ! — imprisoned monarchs seldom have long to
live."

Unhappy man ! thy words are but the echoes of thine own evil
heart. Robert's voice was the first to spare thy life ; he would not
wear a crown bought with thy blood. Learn," he added, presenting
him with a paper, " upon what terms thou still mayst live, if not a
monarch, at least in honourable state." -

William eagerly perused the paper, and his cheek became
alternately red and pale, as rage or fear predominated, while he
did so. As he concluded, his passion broke all bounds ; he tore
the document into a thousand pieces, exclaiming as he did so :

Accursed priest ! this is thy work. In every line I read thy
subtle malice. But thou shalt tear the quivering flesh from off
these bones with pincers — pour molten lead into my throbbing
veins — rend out my heart, ere I consent to pronounce the damning
vov\'. A priest t Moloch shall be my god, and blood my consecration
; thy life shall be the first I offer at his shrine."

The infuriated man sprang upon the prelate, and, unarmed as he
was, would have strangled him or dashed his brains out against his
prison walls, had not George of Erpingham interposed his giant
strength between them. "With his mailed hand he thrust him back,
and William, exhausted by his passions, sank upon a seat — his
hair erect, his eyes glaring upon the churchman like a foiled tiger
disappointed in its spring.

Herbert de Lozenga gazed on him with a mingled sentiment of
pity and contempt.

Prince," he said, in a tone unmoved by anger, " thou hast heard

thy doom. Twenty-four hours are given thee for reflection. That
space elapsed, I resign thee to the charge of those who well know
how to deal with natures such as thine. For thy attempt to lay
hands upon the priest of the Most High, we scorn and pardon
thee. Farewell ! "

Without waiting a reply, the bishop, attended by his faithful
marshal, quitted the tower.

A priest ! " iterated William, as soon as he was alone ; " rather
the dungeon or the grave. Fool ! to be thus caught. For every
moment of my thraldom, a life should answer it, were I but once
more free. The hoary villain is not to be bribed. Robert hath
bought him ; body and soul he is his. Since my good angel hath
deserted me, I call upon the fiends to aid me. Wretch that I am,"
he added, after a pause, " I am so lost that Lucifer himself would
scorn to tempt me. No hope of freedom ! — no loophole for escape !
here and hereafter cursed ! — undone for ever ! "

The captive sullenly dashed himself upon his couch, and gave
himself up to the bitterness of despair. His reverie was not of
long duration, for his solitude was broken by the entrance of
Walter Tyrrel into his cell. At first he scarcely deigned to notice
him ; suddenly the idea of tempting him flashed upon his mind,
and starting from his recumbent position he abruptly demanded :

Knight, art thou ambitious .^ " '

"Like most men," answered Tyrrel, coolly, '* I seek to mend my
fortune ; for, like your highness's, it has proved a scurvy one at
present. Patience or time, I suppose, will better it ; if not, I must
endure it."

I'll better it," exclaimed William ; " satiate thy thirst with gold,
thy pride with honour."

It must be in the Church, then," answered the young man,
carelessly, for it was no part of his plan to be too easily persuaded :
if rumour speaks rightly, prince, you are likely to possess scant
other patronage, and I have little devotion for the cowl."

With titles, boy," said the prisoner, sinking his voice almost to
a whisper ; *' the broadest earldom that our realm can yield, with
wealth wrung from these traitors' blood. Knowest thou not that I
am ali-lady king ? "

I thought it was your elder brother, Robert. At least this
morning, at the council, the nobles hailed him so."

William winced at the reply, and ev<^n then mentally determined,
should he succeed in winning his gaoler to his purpose, to repay him
by long years of expectation and disappointed hopes for the pang it
gave him. What to him was an oath more or less in the long
catalogue of those already broken ?

Can nothing move thee ? " he murmured,

To what ? "

To free thy monarch from the snare traitors have woven round



him — sto accept the fortune which now woos thee to crown thy
name with honour — to place my foot upon the throne, Avhere thou
Shalt stand the nearest. Methinks," iirgecl William, " an earldom
Avere no mean price e'en for so vast a favour ; what from my
brother canst thou hope for more ? "

Perchance not half so much," replied Tyrrel ; '• but then I risk
not life and honour. Besides, a prince's promise is so soon forgot."
Shall I swear ? " exclaimed the captive, beginning at last to
comprehend the man with whom he had to deal; " propose the oath."
The young man did so ; and the prince eagerly repeated it,
binding himself by every saint to bestow, the promised recompense
as soon as the crown should be securely his, and imprecating the
most fearful vengeance upon himself if he broke his oath to him.

If I fail my promise," he concluded, " may thy arrow It t out
the perjured life-blood of rmj heart .' — may my days be but one long
agony of doubt ! — may all good men execrate my name, and history
hold me to the scorn of future ages ! "

The triumphant Tyrrel sank upon his knee, and kissed the hand
the speaker held to him.

'' Pardon me, sire, my doubts," he cried ; " but my future devotion
shall atone for them. This very night I'll break your
chains ; tribe friends are watching eagerly to aid us."

*' Name them," said the noah joyous captive, who felt confident
that his escape Alas certain.

The prior of the Dominicans."

'' Good ! he may be trusted : all churchman are not traitors."
By his orders horses at midnight will be waiting for us at the
city gates. Long ere the day which was to seal your degradation
dawns, leagues shall divide you from your enemies. In three days,
at most, your highness may sleep in London, where the venerable
primate and your father's friends impatiently await you. Once
there—"

My enemies shall feel the lion's Avrath," interrupted William.
I'll make their homes a desert — their names a scoff ; and thou
shalt be my instrument of vengeance ; like the faithful jackal,
thou shalt hunt down the quarry ; and we'll divide the victim's
spoil between us. Fear not, good Tyrrel," he added, familiarly
placing hi hand upon the shoulder of the man in his heart he
already meant to deceive, " but there will be enough for both of
ue. The headsman first, and confiscation after ! "

It was finally arranged that the knight should convey a suitable
disguise to the prince, who was not, however, to assume it till after
his evening meal, when all danger of observation from the men-at-arms
would cease, as after that hour they would have no pretext
for entering his apartment.

And what mummer's mask am I to Aver ? " demanded William,
when all Alas arranged, and Tyrrel Alas about to retire.

A priest's."

Good," he continued ; '* 'tis like the eagle's feather on the shaft
which wounds it. I'd like to trick the cunning bishop with a snare
of his own skin. I'll wear my cowl sooner than my loving brother
thinks, though not so long perhaps. Farewell. I have my instructions,
and will follow them."

Farewell, my liege," answered the traitor, who little thought
that in aiding the escape of William he was marring his own proud
fortunes ; " when next we meet thou shalt be in fact, as well as
right, a monarch."

"And thou a belted earl," said the tempter, graciously ; "the first
and nearest to our throne."

With these words they separated — the youth to indulge in dreams
of future greatness, the tyrant to meditate on schemes of future
vengeance.

As the clock of the cathedral struck the hour of twelve the same
night, a group of four men might be seen leading two well-appointed
steeds towards the gate of St. Stephen's — then, as now, the direct
road to London ; three were in the dress usually worn by the men-at-arms
of that period ; the fourth, enveloped in an ample cloak
and barret, might have been taken either for a noble in travelling
costume or a priest. From the number of franklins and personages
of note whom late events had assembled in the city, the
departure of such a party even at so late an hour created no surprise
to the warders — men selected from the burgher-guard — sleepy, fatheaded
fellows, more inclined to drink their ale in peace than
challenge for the pass-word three determined men who seemed
both able and willing to dispute it.

Thank Heaven ! " exclaimed the prior — for it was no other —
as soon as they were about a bow-shot from the gate, " we are hereat
last. I trust our friends may arrive as safely. Bring the horses
under the shadow of this tree," he added, pointing to an old oak,
whose wide-spreading branches would have afforded obscurity to a
much larger party ; " here we will wait the arrival of the fugitives.
Holy Mother ! but this night's work has fatigued me."

The churchman seated himself upon the grass as he spoke, while
the men secured the horses, and all awaited in silence the arrival of
the prince and his companion. They had not long been thug
occupied, when they were startled by a rustling in the branches
above them. In an instant every one was on the alert ; the men at
arms, with their arrows drawn to the head, ready to fire into the
tree.

There was a pause, for the noise was not repeated.

Waste not your shafts," said the prior ; " 'tis but an owl, or
some bird whose rest we have disturbed. Hark ! "

Who ! who ! " was heard distinctly from the foliage, followed
by the shrill sharp cry peculiar to the obscene bird.

I told you so," he continued ; " three men-at-arms, and
frightened by an owl ! — ha ! ha ! ha ! "

The speaker's raillery was cut short by the arrival of the two

fugitives, who, dressed in the habits of monks, had contrived,

through the treachery of Tyrrel, to pass unsuspected by the guard.

Benedicite ! " said the priest, as soon as he beheld them ;

thank Heaven ! they are arrived at last."

William and his companion threw off their disguise in silence,
and appeared well armed in riding dresses underneath. The prince
was the first to speak.

Sir prior, we are your debtor ; deeds, not words, must speak
our thanks. Are these men to be relied on ? "

Body and soul, they are your highness's servants."
'Tis well," replied the prince, as he mounted; his horse ; " let
them attend us till wee pass the outward post, when all danger for
the moment ceases ; and you, reverend father, accept our signet
ring — it might betray its wearer, for not an officer in our realm but
knows its impress ; we will redeem it with a monarch's ransom.
And now, my men," he added, " forward ! If we pass unchallenged
at the outward post, return to the good prior ; if not, prove to the
traitors you can use your swords. Adieu."

The two fugitives, preceded by the men-at-arms, advanced upon
their way, leaving the churchman beneath the shadow of the oak,
watching their progress with interest.

He must succeed," murmured Eborard ; " with less valour than
his brother, he has ten times his cunning and perseverance ; besides,
the Primate loves him, and will respect the Conqueror's will. Once
king, our haughty bishop may rue his traitorous zeal in Robert's
cause. I'd give my life," he added, " but once to feel my foot upon
his neck ; he hath thwarted me at every turn. Life ! " he added,
I'd almost give my hope of heaven."

Agreed ! " cried a voice from the centre of the oak — " agreed ! "
Unnerved v/ith terror, the blasphemer sank upon his knees,
trying to mutter a prayer.

In nomme confiteor Dei ! Heaven have mercy upon me ! Blessed
St. Dominic, ora pro we."

The invocation Vv'as interrupted by a scream of horror, as a figure,
scarcely human in its proportions, dropped from the branches beside
him, and seized him by the neck with a giant's grass.

Priest of Belial," whispered the dwarf — for it was no other than
Ezra, who had been out to collect simples for his master, and had
concealed himself in the tree on the approach of the party — " it is a
compact. Thou, art mine ! "

At this moment, overcome with fear, the prior fainted.
In this state he was discovered by the men-at-arms, on their
return. With some difficulty they recovered him from his swoon.
But the ring — the prince's signet-ring — was gone !



CHAPTER XIII.

Great was the surprise and indignation of the nobles on the

following morning, when, at the hour of their assembling, the flight

of their captive, and the treacherous Tyrrel, was made known to

them. Success, which before seemed certain, was once more reduced

to the chance of civil war — a risk which many were anxious to avoid,

whilst others secretly rejoiced at it, as a means of increasing their

fortunes by the plunder and confiscations of their enemies' domains.

Few, however, ventured to express either content or dissatisfaction

at the probable result, for the principal leaders remained as firmly

as ever united in the cause of the monarch whom they had

unanimously acknowledged. But to Robert the intelligence was asa

death-blow to his hopes ; the crown which he had grasped already

seemed to elude him, and the share which Tyrrel had taken in his

brother's escape deeply wounded him. The curse of his race, the

hand of fatality, seemed to be upon him. Of the other members of

the league, Herbert de Lozenga alone perhaps foresaw the probable

downfall of their enterprise ; for he knew how popular, by his

largess and courage, the fugitive had contrived to make himself with

the army, to whom his competitor was comparatively unknown.

The implicit obedience which the primate Lanfranc would be sure

to pay to the last will of the Conqueror, by whom he had been raised

to his elevated position, as well as his love for William, whom he

had educated, and who had received the honour of knighthood at

his hands, was another obstacle in their path ; and the mere fact of

that prince being acknowledged and crowned by a prelate possessed

of such influence in the kingdom, both from his high rank and

virtues, together with the possession of the late king's treasures,

would give him an immense advantage over his generous and less

prudent rival. Still the prelate did not despair of retiring with his

brother peers from the league with honour as well as safety ; for

most of the nobles possessed estates in England as well as Normandy,

and would naturally favour any arrangement which promised them

security for their possessions in both countries ; their party was

sufficiently powerful to be feared, and by remaining in arms, or by

advancing towards London, they might probably secure by treaty a

sufficient guarantee for their lives and liberties, as well as the

confirmed investiture of their lands. With this clear view of their

position, his object was to urge them to immediate action ; and his

voice was the first which predominated above the confusion which

the unexpected intelligence had caused.

Hear me, most noble princes and lords," he cried ; " this is the
hour for action, not for words ; firmness and promptitude will oft
assure the triumph despair would resign as hopeless. Are we less
unanimous or less determined than before ? — is our cause less just ?
or Robert's right to possess the crown less sacred ? "

No ! " shouted the assembly, with one voice ; " Robert is our
lawful king, and Ave swear never to own another whilst he lives."

'Tis well ! " resumed the speaker ; " leave words for women,
then — deeds are for men ; and ours must answer for us. The elite
of the army of the late king is still in France ; discontent is rife
within the land ; the men of Kent bitterly resent the captivity of
their earl, Odo, Bishop of Bayeux, the Conqueror's uterine brother.
I have already sent trusty emissaries to inform them of our purpose,
and doubt not but that they will rise to second us. London, between
two armies, must surrender. Hold we, then, our first resolve, and
advance towards it ? "

We do ! " was the cheerful cry of all ; and it was finally agreed
that on the following morning they should commence their march
the young men eager to win fame and honour, the old ones to take
advantage of events as they might arise. Just as the assembly was
about to disperse, the door of the council chamber was thrown hastily
open, and a stranger, clothed in complete armour, entered the hall,
without saluting any of the astonished nobles ; he made his way to
the spot where Robert was standing, and embraced him with a
familiarity which nothing but equality of rank or the tie of blood
could warrant.

The prince's first words explained the mystery of the stranger's
want of ceremony.

Welcome, my reverend uncle ! " he exclaimed, at the same time,
according to the age, saluting him on the cheek. " By what good
providence do we see you at liberty ? It is not often that our father's
captives break their cage."

•' By our faith, nephew," replied Odo of Bayeux, — for it was no
other than the warlike prelate, whom the Conqueror had with great
difficulty been prevailed upon, when dying, to release, — " but our
brother's cage has proved a strong one. For the past, let us forget
it. William, I trust, sleeps in peace, and all my enmity is buried
with him ; but first," he added, " let me offer the homage of a
subject to his sovereign, and then to affairs touching our mutual
interests."

The speaker would have beijt his knee in token of fealty, had not
his nephew, whose hopes his presence had revived, gi-carefully
prevented him, saying as he did so —

'' The nephew can receive no homage from his uncle ; the king
demands no pledge from one whose loyalty is so well assured.
Besides, my lord," he added, " as a spiritual peer, it is not thus that
you should do me service."

True," replied the warlike churchman, with a smile ; " but 'tis
always thus : whenever I have harness on my back I forget my
priesthood, and assume the baron. See how gravely our brother of
Norwich looks, as if to remind us of it. But come," he continued,
present me to your friends."

The shouts of " Long live the valiant Odo I " " Long live the valiant
bishop ! " echoed through the council chamber,

Now then, to work," continued the prelate, as soon as the cries
subsided ; " let's see the muster-roll, — what nobles adhere to your
standard ; what friends you have to count upon ; what enemies to
crush, or to win over to your cause."

A few words made the speaker acquainted with the position of
"affairs, and the declaration by which the Norman and Saxon barons
acknowledged Robert as their king, and pledged their lives and
fortunes to support his claims, was submitted for his inspection by
Herbert de Lozenga. He perused it eagerly, and with evident
satisfaction.

Ay ! " he exclaimed, " this is something tangible. No vague
promises, signifying nothing ; no equivocation here. Lives and
lands are engaged, and my unworthy name will be honoured by
appearing in such goodly company."

Snatching a pen from the table, the speaker added his signature
to the list, which he handed over to his brother bishop.

When do we march towards London ? " he demanded ; " 'tis
there the battle must be fought and won."

With the rising sun," replied the now hopeful Robert.

Good ! I will prepare for our reception there ; I have friends
amongst the greasy citizens. Find me, my lords, a trusty messenger ;
one with a soldier's eye and a statesman's head ; the less likely to
be recognised the better. He must be noble, for he will have to
treat with nobles ; brave, for the service is of danger ; speaking
Saxon as well as Norman tongue ; for, in his mission, he must have
speech with both,"

Eborard, the prior of the Dominicans, although scarcely recovered
from the fright he had received the previous evening, had, to avoid
suspicion falling upon him for his share in the escape of William,
contrived to be present ; he saw that an excellent opportunity was
at hand for serving the cause to which he was so deeply committed,
could he obtain possession of the papers. Blandly, therefore, he
proffered the services of his esquire, a creature devoted to his
interest, to be the bearer of the important letters ; vouching, at the
same time, for his nobility, which was even more questionable than
his fidelity. Perhaps there was something too eager in his manner
of making the offer, or Odo of Bayeux knew too much of his
character, for he refused it so drily that even the effrontery of Eborard
did not allow him again to renew it. The concluding words of his
refusal were even more significant :

Churchmen, in the simplicity of their unworldly natures, are
but poor judges of character, reverend prior ; therefore, we will
choose another messenger. Robert," he added, " let orders be given
that no travellers be permitted to pass the city gates without a
permission signed by some military chief on whom we can rely.

We must guard against treachery from within as from without ; — not
that I suspect aught like treachery from any here."

The prior bit his lips, and resumed his seat in silence.

I am less likely to be recognised," said Ulrick, "and, should
the council deem me worthy of such trust, willing — nay, eager — to
undertake the expedition, for I would fain do something to prove
myself worthy of my place amongst you."

The warlike bishop eyed him for a few minutes as he would read
his very soul. Experience had taught him that bitter lesson, learnt
sooner or later in the world — suspicion ; but there was something
so open in the offer, so modest in the way in which it was made,
that he resolved at once to trust him. Some natures require no
guarantee for their honour and fidelity, for God has imprinted truth
upon their brow, and art can never imitate the signature. Ulrick
was one of these.

Be it so, young man," replied Odo." I neither ask thy name nor
birth, for something tells me that thy heart is nobler far than either.
Short time for preparation waits thee ; within an hour thou must
depart. Take such precautions as seem best to thee to travel
unsuspected ; but remember it is an enterprise where prudence will
avail thee more than courage, and wit protect thee better than thy
sword."

Most present approved of the churchman's choice, for during the
attack on Filby Castle they had witnessed the courage and cool
presence of mind of the young lord of Cranfield.

Farewell, my lords," said the young man as he quitted the
assembly to bid adieu to Matilda and his mother ; " within the hour,
I shall be ready for my departure."

Had the guard of your prisoner, nephew," said Odo of Bayeux,
been confided to that young knight, instead of the worthless traitor
who deceived you, our task might have been easier." ,

Robert heard the observation in silence, for there were circumstances
which made the comparison between Ulrick and Tyrrel
deeply painful to his nature.

The number of vassals which each noble could bring into the
field was next gone into, and the line of march drawn out. Here
Edda's knowledge of the country was of inestimable value, for he
enabled them so to trace their route that all doubtful places or
towns likely to be in possession of the enemy were avoided,
the great object being to arrive before the walls of London with as
little delay as possible. Their army was to be preceded by a
proclamation in which Robert's claim to the crown, as eldest son of
the Conqueror, would be duly set forth, and such promises of
equal government held out, as would induce the oppressed Saxon
population to hasten to his standard.

The council soon afterwards dispersed, the nobles to give orders
for the departure of their troops, and arrange the order of march.

As Eborard mounted his litter at the palace gate, he whispered
something to one of his attendants, who set ois immediately towards
the house of Abram, the Jew.

So," exclaimed the prior, as soon as he was seated in his
comfortable cell in the Dominican convent of the city, " my lord of
Bayeux already doubts me — let him ; doubts are not proofs. The
time will soon arrive when I may avow the step I have taken
proudly to the world, and trample on my enemies. Robert, thy
star is on the wane. William's is rising, and my fortune with it.
Why loiters this cursed Jew ? " he added, starting from his seat,
and pacing the floor impatiently. " I must employ him as my
messenger to London. Ulrick shall find friends whom he woes
not of to meet him there. Robert of Artois' death shall yet be paid
me at his hands."

At this moment, Abram was ushered into the apartment, and
stood, bowing reverentially, before him. " So, infidel, thou art
come," said the churchman. " I have employment for thee, in
which thou may est win not only gold, but friends, so that thou
executes faithfully the trust I shall confide in thee."

Abram," said the old man meekly, " is the servant of his lord.
Let the master speak, the slave hears but to obey. Is the reverend
prior ill, the leech is ready with his drugs to cure him,"

Satan conf lund thee, unbeliever, with thy drugs and charms.
I am for none of these ; thou must gird up thy loins, and journey
for me even unto London."

To London ! " ejaculated the old man, with unfeigned astonishment.
" What should the leech do there ? "

That I will tell thee. Seek out the king, and deliver to him,
word for word, my message. Tell him that his xmcle, Odo of
Bayeux, hath arrived, and that the rebellious nobles plot against his
crown ; that the men of Kent are expected to rise in Robert's
favour. Bid him look to Pevensey and Rochester — both."

Alas ! my lord ; but these are fearful words to fall from lips
like mine ; had not your reverend priorship better write ? "

No, heathen," thundered the priest ; " I place my life in no
man's hands. If thou art caught, stoned, burnt, or hanged, 'tis buta
Jew the less ; for who would listen to his word against a Christian
and a noble ? "

True," said the leech, bitterly ; " the reverend priest speaks truly.
The Hebrew's life is but as the twice-pressed grape, a thing fit to
be trodden underfoot by every brutal clown or steel-clad noble.
But how, please you, without a letter, am I to obtain an audience of
the king ? They would spurn thy servant from his palace gate, e'en
as an unclean beast from out the city walls."

'" I will provide thee with a token that shall procure thee access ;
but remember Ulrick, this new-found Earl of Cranfield as he calls
himself, is the bearer of letters to those of their friends about the

Court. It is of the utmost consequence he should be secured. Use
every diligence to arrive before him. It is well-known that thy
people possess facilities for travel organised in the interests of their
vile commerce. Say, dost thou understand me, Jew ? and art thou
willing to pleasure me in this ? "

My lord hath spoken," said Abram, bowing low, " and his
servant hears but to obey his will."

Tis well," answered the churchman ; " so, on thy return, shalt
thou find protection at our hand."

Not for sheets of gold," replied the Hebrew, " or sheets of
silver, will I consent to do this thing, but for thy favour."

How can it serve thee ? " demanded the prior, rejoiced to hear
that his purse-strings were to remain undrawn.

There is a bark lying in the harbour near," replied Abram,
^* which brought thee goodly wine from Rouen. Two of my
kindred, who are tarrying with me, would fain return unto their
native city, with sundry bales of merchandise — an order from thy
hand, under thy seal, would secure their passage, and good treatment
from the rude captain ; this is the only guerdon I would ask in
requital for my pains."

Holy Mother ! " exclaimed the prior, " but thou keenest well
acquainted with our affairs. It seems our convent cannot import
wine for the poor and sick, but a Jew's nose must scent it ; besides,"
he added, willing to make the obligation greater than it really was,
it were an ill example for a Christian prelate to connive at a Jew's
escape."

Then seek some other messenger," replied the old man, firmly,
for thou hast heard the only conditions on which Abram will do
thy bidding."

Dog ! this insolence to me ! Dost thou not know that I can
crush thee like a vile worm beneath my foot ? The Church's arm,
though slow to strike, is terrible when roused. Thou art too much
honoured in our condescension ; our confidence hath made thee
bold. Let me but raise my voice against thee, and thou art lost."

But thou never wilt raise it," coolly answered the old man.

The calm tone of his voice, so different from the usual tone of
supplication with which those of his race addressed all who belonged
to the Church, astonished the crafty prior, whose first impulse was
to summon the assistance of his lay brothers, and consign him to one
of the numerous prisons of the convent ; but an instant's reflection
taught him that the Jew must possess a surer guarantee for his
personal safety than the mere confidence which had passed between
them, ere he ventured to brave his ^vl'ath. It was, therefore, in an
accent as free from anger as he could command, that he demanded
why he should not raise it.

Because, priest of Belial," said Abram, firmly', "it would be the
signal of thy destruction. Hast thou forgot thy correspondence

with thy vile nephew, Robert of Artois ? The letters are in my
possession."

Go on," said the priest, clenching his teeth with suppressed rage ;
his eye glancing menacingly on the speaker.

" Remember, too, thy treachery last night. Were it but known
that the prior of the Dominicans aided the flight of William of
Normandy, and, churchman though he is, his life would be of as
little purchase as the despised Jew's."

"And who would believe the Hebrew's word .?" demanded his
hearer, with a sneer.

None," replied Abram ; " but all would listen to his proofs —
the nephew's letters, and the prince's ring."

"Sorcerer," shouted Eborard, starting from his seat ; "dost deal
with fiends ? I'll have thee racked for this, rend the flesh from off
thy unbelieving bones, bathe thee in molten fire, tear out thy accursed
tongue. Fool ! idiot ! " he added " with such a secret to enter in
these walls."

The firm glance and self-possession of the Hebrew during these
fearful threats were not lost upon the speaker, who, in the very
torrent of his wrath, calculated every chance affecting his own
safety, which some secret presentiment seemed to assure him would
be compromised by proceeding to extremities with the being who
had ventured to defy him ; he hesitated, therefore, to give the signal
which might lead to their mutual destruction ; they remained
gazing on each other-for awhile in silence.

"Hear me," at last replied Abram. "Thy crimes and my
knowledge of them enable the despised Israelite and the haughty
priest to treat as equals, I did not venture within these walls
without good precaution for my safety. If I return not within the
hour in safety to my dwelling, the letters which thou wotest of, and
the prince's signet-ring, will be placed in the hands of Odo of
Bayeux. Now, then, decide ; I speak no more."

In an instant the manner of Eborard changed. He felt that he
was check-mated by the wily Jew, and he inwardly consoled
himself for his present humiliation by anticipations of future
vengeance when the success of William should render further
temporising unnecessary.

' Tis well, Jew, at length I know the terms on which we treat as
equals. Be it so ; but remember, that the least treachery on thy
part will cost thee dear, for even should I fall I leave behind many
who would avenge me. There," added the speaker,, hastily writing
the order to the captain, and sealing it with his seal, " there is
the paper thou demanded for thy friends. See that the price
be thy fidelity — thy mission faithfully accomplished, and we are
quits."

Thanks, most reverend prior," said Aljram, bowing with his
usual humility, "hast thou further orders for thy servant ? "

None ; thou knowest my message — see that it be delivered, or
woe upon thy head,"

The aged Israelite carefully folded the important paper, and
placed it in a pouch in the inner lining of his garment. His dress
was far less costly than the one Ave have described him as wearing
in his house ; instead of goodly cloth, his gaberdine was made of a
threadbare stuff, patched in several places, and a plain cord, instead
of the engraved silver girdle, bound it to his waist ; yet, wretched
as it was, probably an earl's fee would scarcely have purchased that
miserable vestment, for gems of price were quilted for security
within its folds, and the bond of many a noble for moneys lent
sewn between the linings.

In Abram's way from the priory, the only remains of which at
the present day is St. Andrew's Hall, where the greasy citizens of
Norwich, in the days of its corporate corruption, fed upon the fleshpots
of Egypt, he had to pass that part of the city known as the
Castle Ditches, being the space comprised between the inner and
outer moats, and where the retainers of the nobles and the men-at-arms
were in the habit of amusing themselves by wrestling,
playing the game of quoits, or contending in feats of strength.
For some time the old man made his way comparatively unmolested
except by an occasional gibe or rude curse — insults to which he was
too much accustomed to notice. At last he approached a party of
soldiers, who had been playing for a wager at some game of agility,
and who were clamorously urging upon the loser, a square-built,
beetle-browed, ill-looking ruffian, to pay his loss.

By St. Martin, masters ! " he exclaimed, " but you are hard
upon me ; you cannot have more of a fox than his skin. St.
Martin," he added, as he beheld the Jew approach, " never leaves
his votaries in the lurch. Here comes my treasurer ; now then, ye
cormorants, ye shall be paid in full."

To seize on the person of Abram, and drag him into the midst of
the circle, was the work of a moment ; the feat was so dexterously
accomplished that his companions hailed it with a laughing shout of
approbation.

What would ye, gentle masters ? " demanded the old man, in his
usual submissive tone.

Money," replied the ruffian ; " I have played on credit, and the
saints have sent thee to pay my score."

Money ! " iterated the Jew ; " and where should I obtain it ? I
have been despoiled of everything but the garments which I wear.
The air I breathe is taxed, the light of heaven is taxed, my very
prayers are taxed. Were you to rend the flesh from off my bones
you could not wring a silver penny from me. I am poor."

The declaration was received with a shout of derision, as one of
the pleasantness jests imaginable ; the idea of a Jew being poor seemed
to them so ludicrous, so accustomed were the brutal soldiery to



such asseverations when they practised their unlicensed extortion
upon them.

We shall see," said the fellow, tightening his grasp upon his
prisoner. " "Were thy gold secreted in thy very heart, I know a
trick to squeeze it forth. Be reasonable ; twelve silver pennies, and
thou art free. Thou canst not object to that, in honour of the saint
who hath sent thee to pay my debt."

'' I have already told thee that I have no money. I am old, and
in thy hands, weak, and cannot resist thee ; dispose of me as thou
wilt, for when did Christian ever spare one of our persecuted race ? "

He blasphemes ! " cried the fellows, who had gathered round,
delighted at the sport of tormenting a Jew.

Try the cord upon his thumbs," shouted one.

Strip the unbeliever," said another, " and burn his greasy rags —
the ashes will be worth the sifting."

The latter proposal seemed to hit their humour best, and, despite
his feeble resistance, the gaberdine was nearly torn from fie their
victim's back, when they were arrested by the voice of Ulrick, who,
on his way to the palace, to receive his letters of Odo of Bayeux,
came suddenly upon him. As the party who attended him were
numerously armed, the plunderers paused at his command.

What would you do, my masters ? " he exclaimed. " Is it thus
you show your courage, in despoiling an unarmed, aged man ?
Shame on you — shame ! "

He is a Jew," suddenly growled the fellow who had seized
him, " and ref useth to pay, in honour of St. Martin, twelve silver
pennies."

And what right hast thou to force him ? Release thy hold upon
his garment, or, by the saint whose name thou hast profaned, I'll
crack thy casque, to teach thee mercy, knave ! "

This declaration was received with a murmur of discontent, not
only from the ringleader, but by his companions, who were
indignant that a Christian noble should interfere on behalf of an
Israelite, and whose appetites were excited by the hope of plunder.

Drag him along ! " cried one. " Bring him to the cathedral
precincts ; no one will dare to interfere with us there."

As thou art a knight," said Abram, in a supplicating tone, as
the ruffians were dragging him away ; " for the honour of her who
bore thee, leave me not in the hands of these rude men."

Disperse the rabble ! " exclaimed Ulrick, to his followers.
What ! " he added, as their leader, who still held his grasp upon
his prisoner, drew his sword to resist him, "art bent upon thy
punishment ? — this, knave, to teach thee humanity, and this to
remember Ulrick of Cranfield."

The indignant speaker made but two blows at the ruffian as he
spoke. The first shivered the iron helmet on his brow ; the second
inflicted a deep wound, which seamed his head from the temple to

the ja^^ His companions, seeing that the knight was in earnest,
took to their heels ; and the wounded man sullenly released his
captive, who immediately threw himself at his protector's feet,
blessing him for his humanity to one of the despised and persecuted
race of Israel.

Follow your companions," said Ulrick, pointing with his sword
to the fellow he had wounded, and who vas stanching his gashed
cheek with the end of his sleeve ; " and thank my mercy I do not
consign thee to the care of my seneschal. A rope were a fitter
instrument of punishment for a robber than a noble's sword.
Begone ! and, as you value life, beware how you cross my path
again."

Beware, sir knight," shouted the villain, when he had withdrawn
out of the reach of the party, " how you cross mine ! You have set
your mark upon my face ; mine shall be graven in your heart, Peter
Norbeck never forgave an injury yet. We shall meet again to pay
our scores."

*' Follow him not," said "Ulrick to his followers, who, indignant
at the fellow's threats, were about to pursue him. " His head once
healed, he Avill forget the fray : an he remember it, small matter."

And now, noble sir," said Abram, who had arranged his torn
garments, " let your valuer state at what price you set the old Jew's
ransom ; and poor as he is, he will beg from every brother of his
tribe but he will pay it."

Ransom," said Ulrick, in a tone of compassion ; " and dost thou
think, old man, I saved thee from yon ruffians, but to plunder thee
myself ? I should be then the greater robber. No ! tell me but
where thou livest, and two of my followers shall see thee safely to
thy dwelling."

The Israelite listened to him in astonishment ; so extraordinary
did it appear to him that a Christian noble should render protection
to one of his nation without extorting gold as the price of his
service.

'' Am I then free ? " he demanded,

Free as the air."

And without ransom ? "

*' Without ransom."

Abram bowed to the ground before the young noble, and repeated
his thanks, declining, at the same time, the escort that was proffered
him. Perhaps he was fearful of attracting attention to his dwelling,

Ulrick, who was too enlightened to be entirely the slave of the
barbarous, rude prejudice of the age, which regarded the Hebrews
as a people accursed by God, and fit only to be oppressed by Christians,
gazed on the venerable old man who had resumed his way, with
interest and pity.

It cannot be," he thought to himself— for he was too careful to
shock the prejudice of the age by uttering the sentiment aloud —

^,Ml>lli

'* that Heaven intended man to be its avenger ; Omnipotence needs
not our finite strength to crush its enemies. See," he added,
aloud, " the Jew returns ; he hath thought better of our proffered
escort."

Something had been cogitating in the old man's mind as he
pursued his way. The being whose ruin he was commissioned to
accomplish by the prior, by announcing his journey to London to
William, had preserved him from the brutal outrage of the ruffians
into whose hands he had fallen. Deeply as he had been wronged
by Christians, his humanity was not quite changed to gall. He
returned, therefore, on his steps, to warn him of his danger, and, if
possible, provide him with a shield against it.

'" Now, Israelite, what wouldst thou ,? "

I would speak with thee," said the old man, bowing servilely,
'* speak with thee, noble sir, alone."

XJlrick motioned his followers to retire. No sooner were they out
of hearing, than Abram threw ogle the cringing manner which he had
hitherto assumed, and spoke with the dignity and firmness of a prince
addressing his equal — a tone which he maintained throughout their
interview.

Sir knight," he began, " I little thought ever to feel interest or
care for one of Christian blood. Nay, frown not," he added ;
didst thou but know half the wrongs, the bitter mockeries, I have
endured, thy anger would be less. Enough, I will serve thee. The
journey you are about to take will be a dangerous one. The
messenger of Odo of Bay eux would meet with little mercy at William's
hands, were he discovered."

Knowest thou," interrupted XJlrick, struck with surprise,
*' knowest thou thus much ? "

More — much more than this," continued Abram. " A messenger
already is commissioned to inform the prince of thy arrival, but for
thy sake he shall not depart. I have the power, as well as will, to
stay him. Where wilt thou lodge, supposing thou arrives in safety
at thy journey's end ? "

At Whitefriars. I have letters from the bishop there."

Then art thou lost. The prior is devoted to Prince William.
He looks to be a bishop."

With the Earl of Brittany then."

Worse ; he would sell thee for a mess of pottage."

At some hostel, then," added XJlrick, scarcely knowing where or
what to say.

They are filled with spies. No," continued the old man ;
thou hast served me for the sake of that common humanity which
Christians would deny all of my race ; I, in my turn, will serve thee.
Take these," he added, offering him a set of tablets, on which he
rapidly traced something in Hebrew characters ; " it will provide
thee with a secure retreat, where hatred would fail to find thee, and

p 2

power lack means to drag thee forth. Not an Israelite within the
realm but, at the sight of them, would count down gold at thy
necessity — will shelter thee within his dwelling."

Who art thou, man of mystery ? " demanded Ulrick ; " and
whence this power over thy peculiar people ? "

Question not that," said Abram, " but use it for thy safety.
(Should closer danger press thee, this ring will prove thy safeguard.
Farewell. And may that Being, who is alike the God of Jew and
Gentile, bless thee for thy kindness to my age."

There was something so truthful in the old man's voice, so honest
in its tone, that Ulrick doubted not, even for a moment, of his
sincerity and ability to serve him. He concealed the tablets, as a
precious gage of safety, in his vest, and gazed upon the ring, which
he still retained in his grasp.

By every saint ! " he exclaimed ; " but this is more mysterious
.still — 'tis William's signet."

With thoughtful mien he pursued his way to the palace, debating
in his mind whether to lay the singular gifts, and relate the interview,
before the prelate, or keep silence upon the subject.

^ # # ^ ^

In a vaulted chamber in the house of Abram the Jew, the entrance
to which was so cunningly concealed as to defy detection, sat, or
rather was bound, in an iron chair, the gaunt form of Robert of Artois.
The wound which Rachel had inflicted was more dangerous in
appearance than in reality, and the skill of her father had quickly
caused i4 to heal. During his progress to convalescence the old man
had treated him with the tender solicitude of a parent. He had
preserved him, not for love, but vengeance ; for as soon as the cure
was complete he had removed him, whilst in a deep sleep, by the
aid of Ezra, from the apartment above, and securely bound him in
his seat of torture. The room in which the victim was confined was
a low, arched vault, built of unhewn stone, and lighted by an iron
cresset, suspended from the ceiling.

The first idea of Robert, on recovering from the stupor in which
he had been plunged, was that he was dead, and the gloomy cell his
assigned place of punishment ; for, before him was an object well
calculated to strike terror to a soul more firm than his. The Jewess,
embalmed by her father's skill, was seated on a species of tribune
before him — her dark hair, as when living, glittering with gems —
her eyes, glazed by death, fixed with a stony glare upon him. Vainly
he sought to shut out that fearful image ; if he closed his eyes it
presented itself but more vividly to his mental sight — there was a
species of fascination from which he could not fly. Memory presented
her as he first beheld her — young and unpolluted, innocent and happy,
till, like a serpent, he had left the trail of his destroying passions on
her young heart, and blighted its existence. There was something
too horrible for reason in this silent commune between the living

and the dead ; his mind began to wander ; at times he would entreat
her to forgive him, then revile and curse her. Still the impassible
accuser gazed upon him, unmoved alike by imprecation or by prayer.
The countenance of Robert of Artois gradually became distorted by
passion and terror ; Rachel's retained the cold expression of the dead.
It is impossible to say how long the guilty man could have remained
in this frightful solitude and lived ; his ravings already began to be
incoherent, when Abram, with a case of instruments under his arm,
entered the chamber of death.

"Dog ! " exclaimed the indignant noble, as soon as he beheld
him', relieved from the worst apprehensions that he was dead.
'' What sorcery is this ? "Why am I bound like a thing for sacrifice
in this dark cavern, and what means this carrion here ? "

It means," exclaimed the old man, with a passionate burst of
grief, " that she was my child, and thou wert her destroyer. It
means that she was betrayed, and that I am her avenger."

Beware ! " shouted the captive, writhing with impotent rage ;
beware how thou attempted my life. My uncle, the prior, will
soon return to claim me ; his wrath will light a fire that will
consume thee."

He will return no more," calmly replied the Jew ; " he hath seen
thee, as he believes, dead. Brantone, thy esquire, witnessed thy
interment in the neighbouring church from which I have released
thee, for not e'en the grave could shield thee from a hate like
mine."

What wilt thou do ? " demanded Robert, blanched with terror,
when he saw how completely he was in the speaker's power.

I'll tell thee," said Abram ; " T will not take thy life, for that
were mercy, not revenge ; but I will so change thee, that e'en thy
mother could not, were she living, recognise her child. A
premature old age shall replace thy manly strength — a gift thou
hast so oft abused ; the muscles of thy scornful brow and haughty
cheek I will dissect away, till not one lineament remain of Robert
of Artois. I'll change thy raven hair to grey, and pluck thy beard
from off thy living face. Then, when thou art deformed in personas
well as mind, when not one trace remains for men to know
thee by, I'll send thee into the world to beg, to rot, to starve,
to be the scoff of those who lately licked the dust from off thy
feet. What thickest thou, Christian — shall I not be revenged ? "

Horrible ! " shrieked his prisoner. " Mercy ! Mercy ! "

Ay," continued the old man, drawing a scalpel from his case of
instruments, " such mercy as thou slowest to her. Writhe on,
serpent," he added, "thou canst not escape me."

A groan of anguish broke from the unhappy man, as Abram
plunged the instrument into his cheek, and began to remove the
skin. Cries and supplications, mingled with threats and curses,
were repeated, as with a firm hand and unmoved heart the avenger

pursued his fearful task within the vault — the only witness the cold
and passionless dead.

Day after day he returned to his victim, and relentlessly pursued
his vengeance. By some corrosive preparation the beard was
utterly destroyed, and the deep brown clustering hair thinned
almost to baldness. As the Jew foretold, agony and terror turned
it grey. At last, when the transformation was entirely accomplished,
when the once haughty features of Robert of Artois, seared
by a thousand minute cicatrices, were no longer to be recognised
either by the eye of love or hate, Abram resolved to release him
from his seat of pain ; the preparations for his own departure from
England had long been secretly made. Again the powerful narcotic
was administered, and the disfigured tyrant found himself, when
he awoke from his deep slumber, reclining beneath a tree, not far
from the castle of Ormsby, once his own domain ; he was clothed
in rags, an oaken staff and wallet were on the ground beside him.
Slowly he dragged his enfeebled steps towards the porch, where
several men-at-arms were amusing themselves with Brantone,
discussing the late siege of Filby Hold ; not an eye recognised in the
wretched object before them their once haughty lord, and one, a
fellow more surly than the rest, asked why he came prowling
round the manor.

Do you not know me ? " he demanded, in a trembling voice.

Know thee ! " exclaimed Brantone. " No, fellow, the servitors
of the prior of the Dominicans keep better company. Get thee to
the convent. The reverend father bestows no alms here."

The prior ! Do I dream ? " said Robert. " Methought this
manor belonged to his once powerful nephew."

Did belong," replied the men ; " but since our young lord's
death, it hath been granted to his uncle."

A low groan was the unhappy man's only reply to the announcement.


Lost ! " he murmured to himself — " lost for ever. The accursed
Jew spoke truly. My own menials spurn me from my door."

As this moment an old hound, which had long been useless for
the hunt, but which had once been his companion in many a
gallant chase, approached, and began to whine and sniff the air
uneasily around him.

Look ! " observed Brantone, " if old Rollo does not seem to
recognise him."

Because," said Robert, dashing aside the indignant tear which
the faithful animal's recognition had caused him to shed, " he is
more faithful in his instinct than thou art in thy reason. Changed
as I am, he knows his wretched master, Robert of Artois."

A shout of laughter followed the announcement.

Master," said one, " ha, ha, ha ! The noble knight returned from
Purgatory ! Ha, ha, ha ! "

From a worse place," observed another, pointing to his scarred
face. " Satan has left the mark of his claws ; he must have battled
stoutly to have got back again."

Peace," cried Brantone ; " don't you see the poor wretch is mad ?
There," he added, throwing a small copper coin, " there is a mite
for thee ; stoop for it, and begone."

The o'erfx'aught heart of his quondam master swelled bitterly at
this last insult. Alms to be offered him at his own gate, by one of
his own creatures, a thing whom but a few days before he could have
crushed, was more than his haughty spirit could endure.

Slave ! " he exclaimed, " it was not thus thou didst promise tome
when my mistaken pity saved thee from the gibbet to which
thy life was forfeit, for plundering the abbey at Lisieux ; hast thou
forgot thine oath of gratitude ? "

The loud laugh of the men, to whom the tale was imperfectly
known, roused the anger of the esquire almost to madness, and
catching up a quarterstaff which was near him, he would have
felled the seeming beggar to the ground, had not the faithful hound
sprung from his, by all but him, forgotten master's side, and pulled
him to the ground. In an instant a dozen weapons were raised,
and the brains of the faithful animal dashed out upon the spot.

Villains ! you shall dearly pay for this ! " exclaimed the excited
Robert. " Deeply shall my poor hound's death be revenged ! "

Begone ! " cried Brantone, rising from the earth. " I am a fool
to listen or be angered at a madman's ravings. Use your staves,"
he added, sternly, to the men, " and drive the beggar forth."

The men-at-arms, eager to recover the good graces of the esquire,
who was known to be high in favour with their new master,
eagerly obeyed his commands, and, despite his curses and
imprecations, drove the wanderer from the gate.

God ! " exclaimed Robert, as soon he was alone, " can this be
real ? Is it not some hideous dream ? Rachel," he added, as the
horror of his position flashed upon him in its bitter reality, " thou
art fearfully avenged ! "

Then commenced the real punishment of Robert of Artois.

CHAPTER XIV.

It was near the hour of sunset, just before the guard for the
night was set, that a traveller, dressed in the sober garb of a
peaceful citizen, and mounted on a strong grey horse, which seemed
more fitted for a belted knight than a humble trader, approached
the barrier of Lydgate ; not, as now, in the very heart of the
Metropolis, the busy nest of active industry, but one of the fortified
entrances to the City, and connected by a low wall with the Barbican.

Cheapsyde, at the period of which we write, was a narrow street, far
different from the Cheapside of the present day ; quaintly-built
houses, chiefly of timber, overshadowed the roadway with their
rudely-carved projecting balconies, few of which were glazed —
strong shutters of wood, raised or depressed with cords, serving the
inhabitants to exclude both air and rain. As the buildings
approached Cornwall they became more and more straggling, with
gardens or patches of land between them. Sometimes a mansion
of more goodly appearance than the rest might be seen a little
removed from the wretched unpaved road, but more frequently the
eye encountered only miserable huts inhabited by watermen and
small traffickers, or families whose fortunes were as doubtful as
their characters.

As Ulrick — for the traveller was no other than the disguised
Lord of Cranfield — neared the gate, his steed attracted the attention
of the men-at-arms, always ready to discuss the merits of a horse,
or speculate upon the character of its rider. The warder — a grey-headed
man, who still retained evidence of great personal strength,
and whose keen blue eye, glancing from beneath an overhanging
brow, would have prepossessed a physiognomist with any thing
but an opinion in his favour — stood by, listening to them in silence.

Marry," said one, " but our citizen is well mounted ; I have
seen a worse piece of flesh than that sold for a hundred marks ; it
seems of Flemish breed; perhaps its master is some foreign
trader."

Trader indeed ! " observed a second ; " where are his saddlebags
? He holds his seat more like a man accustomed to cl-back
crowns than count them. There again ! How well he reined him
up over the broken ground ! No, no ; the rider of yon goodly
steed has never been a trader."

The warder, who had been scrutinising the traveller, nodded his
head with the air of a man who hears an opinion which coincides
with his own, but continued his observation in silence.

"Welcome, my master," said the first speaker, as Ulrick reached
the gate. " Art come to witness the coronation of our young King
William ? It takes place in two days. That steed would fetch a
goodly price to figure in the pageant. Many a noble will appear
worse mounted."

Coronation ! " repeated the traveller in evident surprise ; " 'tis
rather sudden ; it is but lately that I heard of his father's death.
He is in haste, methinks, to grasp his crown,"

"Traitors, 'tis whispered, disputed it with him," replied his
questioner ; " and the holy primate is resolved to make short work
of it. Hast never heard of the king's elder brother, Prince Robert ? "

Not often," said Ulrick, trying to look indifferent ; " princes
and kings trouble me but little ; I strive to make an honest living,
and leave the great ones to settle their disputes."

Thou art a trader, then ? " demanded the warder, speaking for
the first time.

The traveller merely bowed his head, so hateful to him was the
subterfuge to which prudence compelled him to have recourse.

And what dost thou deal in ? "

Steel, sir warder, steel."

I thought so," drily observed the fellow, whose suspicions were
excited, although but vaguely.

An you lack a sword, good friend, I shall be happy to furnish
you, and at a reasonable price," said Ulrick, willing to avoid
further questions, which began to any him.

Perhaps I may use the occasion," replied the warder. " I have
long thoughts of cheapening one. Where shall I find you — in the
city ? "

No, at the St. Dunstan, the patron saint of all good armourers,"
answered Ulrick, at the same time giving his horse the rein to
continue his route. " Good night, my masters. I love not the late
hour, and mine host of the jovial saint will be uneasy if I tarry
longer."

The traveller with these words quietly resumed his way, much to
the annoyance of the warder, who gladly would have detained him
till the arrival of the officer and guard who were to relieve his post.
Once or twice he had thought to have arrested him on his own
authority ; but the lack of warrant, and the idea that after all he
might perhaps turn out to be some wealthy merchant, restrained
him, for the City was extremely jealous of its privileges, and he was
their immediate servant ; still he determined not to lose sight of
him, but set some one to dog his steps.

Gilbert, Gilbert ! " he exclaimed, directing the voice to the
interior of the tower. Why, how the hound sleeps ! Gilbert, I say !
Ho ! some of you, break your quarterstaff over his sleepy head ! "

A shrill cry of pain from within announced that his brutal order
had been complied with. A thin, pale, half-starved looking youth,
of about seventeen, came from the guard-room, wiping the drops of
blood which trickled down his high and not unintellectual forehead.
No tear, however, dimmed his bright blue eye, which shone from its
covered socket with almost unnatural lustre, indicative either of
disease or insanity. Calmly the poor boy stood before his tyrant,
who this time, either because he thought him sufficiently punished,
or that time pressed, forbore to ill-use him further.

Dost see yon traveller, hangdog ? " he demanded, pointing to
Ulrick.

I do," replied the boy, meekly.

Follow him — dog him to his home. Better lose thine eyes than
lose the sight of him. When thou hast housed him, bring me word,
fast as thy lazy limbs can carry thee."

I will."

Away, then," continued the ruffian, " and make good speed. If
I find thou tarriest but one second I'll lash thee with my bow-string
till ] lay bare thy bones. Thou knowest me ; do not trifle with my
anger."

A Blight and almost imperceptible shudder passed through the
frame of Gilbert as he heard the threat. The next minute he was
following the track of Ulrick, as he wound his way through the
many intricacies of the crowded city.

It was not long before our hero perceived that he was watched •
every time he turned his head he perceived the pale-visaged boy,
whose glance instinctively shunned his, as if conscious of the
degradation of his employment. As he approached Temple Bar
considerable confusion was caused by a party of the City guard,
who were escorting the civic authorities on their return from
Westminster, where they had been to pay their homage to the new
king, who had solemnly confirmed their charter, to attach them to
his interests.

Ulrick saw that the occasion of avoiding his pursuer was too
favourable to be lost : spurring his powerful horse, he dashed
through the cavalcade, regardless of loaths and menaces, and
quickly disappeared down one of the numerous lanes which led to
the water side, by which means he avoided the Strand and the
village of Charing, following the banks of the river till he arrived
at Westminster, where he expected to find Anselm, abbot of Bee, in
Normandy, a known partisan of Robert, to whom he was more
especially addressed by Odo of Bayeux.

Back, boy ! " exclaimed one of the guard, rudely seizing Gilbert
by the shoulders, as he was endeavouring to force a passage through
their ranks to follow the horseman. " What will happen next, when
traders take the crown of the causeway in the teeth of the City
magistrates, and boys break through the City guard ? "

Pray let me pass," cried the youth, struggling to release himself
from the speaker's grasp ; my errand is of speed — you know not
how much depends on my fulfilling it."

A loud laugh, accompanied by blows, was the only reply of the
angry official, and the poor lad was thrust back until the procession
had passed ; when he had threaded the barrier Ulrick had disappeared.


Anselm, the abbot of Bee, who was afterwards destined to fill so
important a niche in the history of his times, lodged with the prior
of Westminster, to Avhom he was distantly related. In his manner
he was cold and stately, concealing an ambition atoned for by great
benevolence under a veil of self-possession. Perhaps in early life he
met with one of those misfortunes which chill without freezing the
heart ; he had looked upon the world, and scorned its worthlessness.
Deliberately he perused the missive of his brother prelate, glancing
occasionally from the letter to the bearer, who met his gaze with

that unembarrassed ease which only truth or long habit of dissimulation
gives ; the scrutiny was apparently satisfactory.

We meet, my lord, in strange times," he observed, " and your
enterprise is one which only zeal and courage could undertake ; not
that I venture to pronounce it hopeless. Many of the nobles prefer
Robert's claim to William's ; but unfortunately the primate is against
him. In two days the church will consecrate the usurper's rights ;
Lanfranc will place the crown upon his head in the ancient abbey
of St. Peter's."

Have the nobles, then, no voice in his election ? " demanded
Ulrick ; " for election it clearly is if the law of primogeniture beset
aside. The barons of the Angles already have proclaimed his
brother king, and even now, with Robert at their head, are on their
march to London."

"Robert," said the churchman, "possesses many kingly qualities ;
but he is rash as generous, and lacks the perseverance to assure the
triumph of his cause. Who are his chief advisers ? " —

His uncle, Odo of Bayeux," replied our hero.

Better in the field than at the council board," observed the
priest. " Who next ? "

Odo of Caen."

A valiant knight. Proceed."

Edda the Saxon, Herbert de Lozenga, the Earl of Norwich, with
many chiefs and franklins of less note, and, last and least, mj'^self."

Good men, I doubt not," muttered Anselm, musing more to
himself than addressing his visitor, " William de Warrennene, Roger
of Shrewsbury, De Vere, and Neville, will, I doubt not, join him.
Prince Henry, too justly offended at his father's will, might throw
his influence in the scale — Hear me, sir knight," he added ; " I
will see the men I speak of. Born no subject of this land — owing
it no allegiance — I can securely do so. Visit me again tomorrow at
the coming hour. Where art thou lodged ? — with secure friends, I
trust."

Ulrick briefly informed him that he was a stranger in the capital,
and had as yet to seek a lodging for the night.

Imprudent," replied the churchman ; " tyranny is ever
suspicious ; the City swarms with spies ; the very appearance of thy
steed — for I noticed it from my casement — in a common hostelry
would create inquiry. I will send it to the house of our order at
Eltham. Leave it with me. Shouldst thou be compelled to fly,
Kent must be thy hiding-place ; 'tis there the battle will be lost or
won, for there lies Robert's strength."

Anselm's words were prophetic : it was in that fertile county, of
which Odo of Bayeux was earl, that the struggle terminated which
placed William Rufus on the throne of England.

I would guard thee here," continued the abbot, kindly, " were
I other than a guest, or did I deem it a safe hiding-place. Be

careful of thy safety ; remember that prudence is sometimes better
ban courage. Farewell," be added ; " jaeace and security go-with
thee."

There was something so calculating, if not cold, in the
churchman's manner that Ulrick scarcely knew what to think of
him — bis very caution seemed dictated more by prudence than
regard ; still the high character he had received of him from those
who sent him did not permit even for an instant a doubt of his
good faith. " Perhaps," he thought, as he traversed the fields
between the abbey and Charing, "it is but the coldness of the
cloister." All men, he knew, possessed not the warm heart of his
benefactor, whose nature was as genial as his own.

The unhappy Gilbert had vainly made his way along the crowded
Strand, and from thence to the village of Charing, demanding of
the passengers if they had encountered a citizen, whose person and
steed he described. Some listened to him patiently ; others
answered with a surly negative. All trace of the object of his
pursuit had vanished, and what to do he knew not ; to return was
out of the question. Th brutal rage of his father-in-law — for such
was the relationship between the warder and himself — increased, as
it was sure to be, by disappointed avarice, was more than he dared
encounter. He wandered for some time in the fields and open
grounds between Charing and Westminster ; and at last, overcome
with fatigue, seated himself beneath a tree, and reflected bitterly on
his lonely, unprotected situation.

He had not been long thus occupied, before he was aroused by
the lash of a bow-string vigorously applied to his shoulders ; and
starting to his feet beheld, to his terror, the warder standing beside
him. The disappointed ruffian, weary of waiting his return, had
tracked him even there. " Cur," he exclaimed, repeating the blow,
is it for this I feed thee ? Is it thus my orders are obeyed ? Where
hast thou left the man I bid thee watch ? "

Vainly Gilbert endeavoured to appease his wrath by relating the
manner in which he had lost sight of him : the evil passion of the
fellow was roused i and, like the tiger, whose appetite for blood is
increased by the first taste of it, so the terror and cries of the youth
increased his persecutor's fury. " I have lost a fortune by thy
heedlessness," he muttered between his clenched teeth. " I have
seen Sir Walter Tyrrel, the newly appointed captain of the king's
guard ; he recognised the rider from my description of his steed ;
a price is on his head ; and thus to lose it ! — Ay, shriek," he added ;
I'll show thee as little mercy as thou hast shown obedience."

It is impossible to say how long the enraged warder would have
continued his cruel usage of his victim, had not Ulrick, who was
returning from his visit to the abbot, chanced to pass the spot.
Attracted by the cries of the boy, and disgusted with the cowardly
conduct of the ruffian, whom in the twilight hour he failed to

recognise, his first impulse was to interfere. Seizing him by the
neck, he hurled him to a considerable distance from the tree,
exclaiming as he did so, " Shame on thee thus to abuse thy strength !
The lash is fit but for the hound, not for a boy."

The first thought of the warder, on regaining his feet, was to
attack the unceremonious speaker, whom he recognised at a glance ;
but prudence, and the hope of gain, changed his purpose ; perhaps,
too, the proof of strength which he had just received made him
doubtful of the result, should he venture to encounter him ; he pretended,
however, not to know him.

Marry, master," he growled, " but you are ready with your
hands, though I bear you no ill-will for that ; my temper is
sometimes hotter than my reason. 'Tis the third time since
Monday this disobedient boy hath given me the trouble to seek him.
Let a drum but beat, or a banner wave, and presto ! there is no
keeping him within the house. Come, Gilbert," he added, in a
voice intended to be affectionate, " though knowest, if I am hasty
of speech, and sometimes rough of hand, that at heart I am not an
unkind father-in-law. Come," he added, in a low, peculiar tone,
seeing that his victim hesitated, " I am not to be trifled with.
Good night, sir," he continued, turning to his assailant ; *' I bear
you no ill blood ; but for the future be less ready with your
hands."

Ulrick, who had quickly recognised both the speaker and the boy,
was uneasy at the encounter, for he felt more convinced than ever
that he had been dogged, and suspected that the scene he had just
witnessed had merely been got up to detain him till assistance
should arrive to secure his person. With a brief " good night," he
turned coldly, therefore, from the mute supplicating look of Gilbert,
which seemed to implore his protection, and directed his way
towards Charing, turning from time to time a cautious glance to
see if he were followed.

Scarcely was he out of earshot, than the warder whispered to his
son-in-law, *' Follow him — trail after him like a serpent on thy
belly ; — lose sight of him again, and I'll rend the skin from off thy
fi^esh. Raise thy head from time to time, that I may see the track,"

The poor boy, his limbs still smarting with the chastisement he
had received, threw himself, as he was bid, upon the ground, and
glided after Ulrick, who, unable to distinguish the creeping form in
the distant ce, pursued his way in the confidence that he had escaped
them.

In his Away to Westminster our hero had observed by the waterside
a quiet solitary house, where a bundle of straw hung out,
denoting that entertainment might be had for man and beast :
thither he had directed his steps, to secure his accommodation for the
night.

'Tis rather late," replied the host, eyeing him carefully, " for a

respectable citizen, such as you seem to be, to seek his lodging ;
but perhaps you are a stranger, -a trader from distant parts, or "

I am," said Ulrick, " from a distant land, though not altogether
a stranger in England. If the hour is too late to please you, I can
seek elsewhere — a man with crowns in his pouch need never lack
for shelter in a city like to London."

Not so hasty, good master," quickly exclaimed the Boniface, in
whose ear the word " crowns " tingled most musically ; " you might
go farther and fare worse ; if we are careful whom we admit, it is
that our house is honest ; were your gown quilted with nobles,
you might sleep in surety here. Will it please you to sit here, or
shall I serve you in the inner room ? "

Ulrick cast a glance upon the company, which consisted of one or
two mendicant friars, several small traders, and three or four men
whom it would have been impossible to place in any class, unless in
that comprehensive one, cosmopolite. With a nod he signified to
the host that he should prefer the inner room, where he ordered
him to bring a flask of his best wine, and leave him undisturbed till
supper time.

As the master of the house retui-ned to the kitchen after serving
his guest, a scowling figure, the cap carefully drawn over the brow,
appeared at the outward door, and beckoned him out. It was the
warder.

No sooner was Ulrick alone than his thoughts naturally reverted
to his home and his young bride, whom he had left in the first
hours of wedded happiness at the stern call of honour. Matilda,
neither by tears, entreaties, nor sighs, had endeavoured to detain
him ; for, in her gentle nature, even the passion of love was controlled
by the sentiment of duty, and the resignation with which
she endured the separation increased, if possible, her husband's
admiration of her character and virtues. For some time he paced
the floor of his lonely chamber, plunged in one of those delightful
waking dreams in which youth cradles an unreal future ; wisely,
perhaps, consoling itself for the turmoils, cares, deceits, trials, and
disappointments of the present by the anticipations of happiness
never to be realised. He was startled, at length, from this dreamy,
reflective mood by a gentle tapping at the window ; at first he
deemed it accident, and continued his solitary walk ; but its repetition
soon became too frequent and too loud to admit of his remaining
under the impression. Lowering the cord which held the
shutter, he thrust his head into the night air to see who it was that
had disturbed him.

Silence, sir knight," whispered the trembling voice of Gilbert ;
you are beset like a tracked deer. The warder and myself have
dogged you to your lair. He is gone to fetch the guard, and will be
back within the hour. I am set to watch you here. For the sake
of our dear Lady, fly, if you value life."

And what, boy, makes thee take so great an interest in my
favour ? " coolly demanded Ulrick, who doubted whether the
speaker's zeal in his service was not assumed to lure him from the
protection of the house, so little did he think of the slight kindness
he had shown him in saving him from his assailant.

What makes me feel an interest ! " iterated the youth. " Didst
thou not defend me .? "

Granted."

Speak for me with pity ? "

Well ? "

Well ! " said the boy ; " ah, 'tis plain you have always been
beloved, have never missed the voice of kindness, or you would not
ask that question. If you knew how crushed I had been in heart
and spirit, how unused e'en to as much kindness as men would
show a dog, you'd feel and understand the reason why I risk my
life to serve you ; though, perhaps," added the speaker, with a sigh,
it is so poor a thing that I should be a gainer by the loss."

There was a tone of sincerity, mingled with such utter hopelessness,
in Gilbert's words, that, despite his resolution to be cautious,
Ulrick felt convinced of the poor fellow's sincerity and purpose.
Eager, like most generous natures, to atone for the pain his doubts
had caused, he answered kindly :

I believe thee, my good boy ; forgive me that I wronged thy
honesty by my suspicion. But tell me," he added, " whence comes
the danger I must fear ? "

From the captain of the king's guard, to whom the warder
described your steed and person. Perhaps, sir knight, you know
him, for 'tis plain he recognises you ? "

How do you name him, boy ? "

Sir Walter Tyrrel. He hath promised gold to the warder if he
succeeds in apprehending you."

The last doubt disappeared from Ulrick's mind ; the name of
Tyrrel was a fearful omen ; for, although reared from childhood
together by the good bishop, tJiey had never loved each other. The
open, warm heart of the young Lord of Cranfield had never found
one affinity of feeling in his cold, calculating companion.

Thou hast convinced me," he exclaimed, " of thy sincerity. In
naming Sir Walter Tyrrel thou hast named my bitterest foe. Wait
for a few moments, and I will rejoin thee."

The speaker was about to quit the window, when the voice of
Gilbert again arrested him.

Not by the door, sir knight — not by the door. My father-in-law
and the host of the hostel are friends. He hath already put him on
his guard. The outward door is fastened ; you would be beset and
overpowered. By the window — by the window, if you value life."

The advice appeared too reasonable to be neglected. The height
was not very considerable to drop. Drawing his sword, which he

wore concealed beneath his dress, he held it in his teeth, so as to be
ready in case of treachery. He threw his legs over the low balustrade,
and let himself fall upon the ground.

Thank Heaven, you are safe."

And thanks to thee, boy," replied Ulrick ; " for without thy
warning I had small chance of escaping them. There," he added,
offering Gilbert at the same time a gold piece, " is a token for thee.
Haste to thy home, and thy share in my deliverance may pass unsuspected."


The youth hesitated to take the money. The speaker thought
that he perhaps deemed it insufficient ; and, drawing another coin
from his pouch, of equal value with the first, offered them both,

'• It is not gold, sir knight," sobbed the boy ; " it is not gold.
You bid me return to my home ; alas ! I have now no home. I
was set here to watch, and not to warn you. Farewell ! If you knew
the price at which I have paid my debt of gratitude, you would not
think so little of my heart that gold could recompense its devotion
to your service."

Then come with me," said Ulrick, extending his hand, which
Gilbert joyfully seized and kissed, " I am but a fugitive myself ;
yet it shall go hard but I will protect thee. But first to provide for
our escape. Unchain the boat, and take the oars out of the others
beside it, to prevent their following us."

These orders were quickly executed. The oars were removed
from the two larger barks into a light skiff lying close to the water's
edge ; when Tyrrel, accompanied by the warder and two men-at-arms,
rushed down upon them. As soon as his father-in-law
perceived Gilbert, his rage knew no bounds. Once more the recompense
seemed likely to escape him, through the treachery of his ill-used
victim, on whom, whatever might be the result of the adventure,
he determined to be revenged. Drawing an arrow to the head,
he let fly the shaft ; and the devoted boy sank, wounded in the
chest, upon the shelving bank.

Ulrick, whose foot was upon the edge of the boat, might have
escaped without risking an encounter, could he have consented to
abandon his preserver — a baseness which, even for a moment, never
crossed his thoughts. To rush to the side of his wounded companion,
and raise him on his left arm, whilst with his right he
defended their retreat, was but the work of a moment ; indeed, so
rapidly was the movement executed, that he had retreated several
paces before his assailants had recovered from their surprise.

Yield ! " exclaimed Tyrrel, rushing upon him with his two
followers ; for the warder had prudently run to the hostel to
summon the assistance of his friend the host. " Ulrick of Cranfield,
in the king's name, I arrest you ! "

A blow from the quick sword of Ulrick was his only reply, as he
continued his retreat towards the bark, his face sternly turned



towards his assailants, his left arm. still supporting the form of the
unconscious Gilbert. One of the men-at-arms had already received
a deep cut across the arm, which rendered it nearly useless, and the
second evinced but little zeal in approaching the keen blade of the
fugitive, which flashed like lightning round his head, and occasionally
whizzed most unpleasantly in the ears of his enemy. Ulrick
and Tyrrel had the encounter nearly to themselves.

Dogs ! " exclaimed the latter, fearing the man he hated would
escape him, " must I do your duty ? Upon him ! take him alive if
possible, but, as you value your heads, suffer him not to escape."

Thus exhorted, the two fellows pressed yet nearer, when, by a
dexterous feint, Ulrick avoided the sword of his chief opponent,
and let fall his own upon his helmet. So tremendous was the blow,
that the straps of the head-piece gave way, and Tyrrel fell half
stunned to the ground. For Ulrick to place his foot upon his chest
to keep him there was the work of an instant.

Back ! " he cried, for the first time breaking silence, and holding
the point of his sword within an inch of the throat of his enemy ;
another step, and the blood of your leader dyes my blade."

The men hesitated between the desire of saving their captain and
the fear of punishment.

Order them to throw aside their weapons," said Ulrick,
addressing his prostrate enemy.

Never ! " shouted Tyrrel, with a look of defiance.

The point of his conqueror's sword entered his throat about an
inch.

Stay, stay ! " he groaned ; " if I command them to give up their
swords, wilt thou spare my life ? "

I will."

By the honour of a knight ? "

By the honour of a knight," added Ulrick.

Well then," said Tyrrel with a look of hate, " obey him ! Throw
down your arms, I command you."

The men, who wished no better excuse than the orders of their
leader for relinquishing a contest of which they were both tired,
instantly obeyed, and cast their weapons half a bow-shot from them.

Command them to retire a hundred paces from the shore,"
continued Ulrick, seeing that his first order was complied with.

That thou mayst murder me ! " shrieked the prostrate man,
writhing in mingled agony and shame beneath the foot of his
victorious foe.

Carrion ! " said the generous youth, pressing him yet more
firmly down ; " the thought was worthy only thee. Decide ! I speak
not twice."

Again the point of the sword approached the villain's throat.

The command was given, and, like the former, as promptly
executed. As soon as the men had retired the prescribed distance,

Q 2

Ulrick released his enemy, first taking care to secure his sword. No
sooner was his foot removed than Tyrrel rose doggedly from the
ground. His rage was too deep for words — his humiliation too
profound ever to be forgotten.

For the sake of this poor boy," said Ulrick, after he had placed
the wounded Gilbert in the boat, and was about to push of, I spare
thy life ; but remember, Tyrrel, when next we meet, our strife is
mortal."

I will remember it," shouted the baffled traitor, shaking his
clenched fist after the receding boat. " By Heavens ! " he muttered
to himself, "my promised earldom could not give me half the joy
as once to feel my feet upon thy neck."

The scene we have described had passed so rapidly, that by the
time the warder had called the inmates of the hostel to his assistance,
the boat which contained the fugitives had reached the middle of
the stream, where the tide carried it down rapidly towards London-bridge.


Follow them ! " shouted the rufBan ; " they have not escaped us
yet."

The men rushed to the remaining boats, and found that every oar
was gone ; curses loud and deep accompanied the discovery :
meanwhile, the skifiE pursued its way.

XJlrick's position was an embarrassing one : alone upon the water
with his wounded companion, whom honour and humanity alike
forbade him to desert ; no refuge near, no friend whom he could
consult ; his liberty menaced at a moment when the gravest
interests depended upon his activity and freedom. The recollection
of his young bride pressed painfully upon him : what would
be her fate and sufferings should he fall into the hands of his
relentless enemy ? He was startled from his painful reverie by a
deep groan from Gilbert ; the sound recalled him to himself.
Abandoning the boat to the direction of the current, which bore it
rapidly along, he approached the youth, and, with a gentle but firm
hand, he drew the arrow from his breast, and felt considerably
relieved when he beheld a gush of blood follow it ; for, like most
knights of the age, he knew something of leechcraf t, and was aware
that the wounds which bled internally were the most dangerous.
Opening his vest to tear a piece of linen to stanch the hurt, his
fingers felt something hard ; mechanically he drew it forth, and
beheld the tablets of the Jew. It seemed as if Providence, in the
hour of his need, had brought them to his recollection ; for he
remembered the words which accompanied the gift, though how to
find the residence, at such an hour of the night, of any of the
peculiar people, he knew not.

How dost thou feel, boy 'i " he demanded of his charge. "Art
better ? "

Much, much, sir knight," replied Gilbert, in a feeble tone,

since you have-withdrawn the arrow. I shall be strong soon, and
able to assist you "sith the oar. Thank Heaven, you are not hurt."

Knowest thou where we are ? "

Upon the river."

"Knowest thou where reside the principal Jews of the city,
merchants, or leeches .? " continued Ulrick.

In Lombard-street, sir knight, "Why dost thou ask ? "

Because it is with one of them wee must find refuge. My life is
close beset ; my enemies will never think of searching for me there.
Tell me," he added, "where must we land ? "

There," said the boy, raising himself in the boat and pointing to
a distant part of the bank ; " from thence, at the distance of a bows
stands the house of Falk, of Cologne. Men say that he is good
and charitable ; he is well skilled, too, in witchcraft. 'Tis said he
cured the late king of the black fever, when all hope had failed him.
But you wall never gain shelter there."

Why not, boy .? "

He is too rich to need your gold. Men say he hath lent large
sums to the king ; it may be to his interest to betray you ; and
Jews, I've heard, would sell their souls to spite a Christian. Pray,
go not there ! "

It is our only hope," said Ulrick, with a sigh ; " persecution
may have taught him mercy ; besides, you yourself say that he is
good and charitable ; added to which, I have a means to secure his
favour which something whispers me cannot fail of success."

Gilbert remained silent ; he was either too much exhausted, or
felt too much respect and gratitude to his companion, to urge his
objections further. Ulrick, as soon as they reached the shore,
assisted him carefully from the boat, which, with his foot, he sent
once more adrift, lest, being found near the spot where they had
landed, it should set the blood-hounds on their track. The boy
was so far recovered by the night breeze as to be able to walk, with
the support of his protector's arm. Slowly they wound their waj-
amid the various small craft drawn up on the shore, to be out of
the reach of the tide and the empty barrels and pieces of timber
scattered about, till they approached a narrow lane, inhabited
chiefly by watermen, and which conducted to Lombard-street.
Fortunately, from the lateness of the hour, there were few stragglers
about to watch their progress ; a light might be seen occasionally
through the crevices of the rude shutters, intimating that all the
inhabitants of the place had not retired to rest. They proceeded
without interruption, till they stood before the house they sought,
the habitation of Falk, the richest merchant of his tribe. The
house, though the most considerable in the street, presented,
externally, but a poor appearance, it being entirely denuded of
those quaintly carved attempts at ornament which already began to
characterise the age. It was impossible, however, not to observe

that the doors and shutters were framed with a careful attention to
strength ; the latter, particularly, were so well joined together, that
when closed not a single ray of light could penetrate from within
or from without. Its master, like the rest of his nation, at the
fierce period of which we write, although rich, enjoyed his wealth
with fear and trembling ; for the populace," taught to consider the
once chosen people of God but as beings fit only to be hunted and
persecuted, frequently attacked the dwellings of the Jews, veiling
their appetite for plunder under the convenient cloak of fanaticism
and religious pretext. It is astonishing how many of the descendants
of the same ruffian populace may be found even at the present
day — ay, and in high places, too, their savage and persecuting
propensities only a little modified by the times in which they live.

The two fugitives, after looking carefully round them to see that
they were unobserved, approached the door. Just as Ulrick was
about to knock with the handle of his sword, it was unexpectedly
opened, and a hand extended, which, grasping his, drew him and
his companion into the house, a voice at the same time whispering :

You are late ; breathe not a word, but follow me."

For a few minutes, Ulrick and his companion followed their
mysterious guide in silence ; a thick cloth curtain, which screened
a low arch, was drawn aside, and in an instant they found
themselves in the midst of a brilliantly-lighted saloon. Lovely
women, richly dressed, were seated upon cushions in the Oriental
fashion ; high-browed, dark-bearded men, conversing in groups,
standing beside them. It would be difficult to say which were
the most surprised — the assembled Hebrews, or the two strangers
so unexpectedly introduced among them. The women hastily let
fall their veils, and their fathers and brothers, drawing their long
knives — for swords were forbidden them — prepared to defend
themselves from some expected outrage.

The guide, a youth, whose error had brought the two parties thus
in contact, stood transfixed with anger and fear.

Who art thou ? and what brings a Christian at this hour
beneath my roof ? " demanded a tall, venerable-looking man, in a
tone which proclaimed him to be the master of the house.

Ulrick placed the tablets in his hand, which the old man retired
to read by the light of a silver lamp suspended from the ceiling in
an inner recess of the apartment.

What have I done ? " exclaimed the young Israelite whose
heedlessness had occasioned the unexpected introduction ; " by my
imprudence the Nazarene hath entered in the tent of my fathers."

The men, still grasping their knives, thronged round the intruders,
their black eyes flashing in fearful wrath upon them. The terrified
Gilbert clung to his companion, who in the midst of the menacing
throng around them retained his calmness and usual presence of
mind. He felt, from the manner in which they were hemmed in,

that the least attempt at resistance would but provoke their fate.
Several arms were already raised to strike, when the voice of the
old man was heard as he issued from the recess, holding the tablets
of Abram in his hands.

Harm them not," he cried. " Respect the guests of the high
priest."

In an instant every hostile expression disappeared, and instead of
being surrounded by ferocious faces, Ulrick and his companion found
themselves amongst friends.

CHAPTER XV.

Ulrick and his companion were conducted to a well furnished
apartment, provided with two couches, by their host, who, like
most of his nation, possessed a considerable knowledge of surgery.
The wound of Gilbert was carefully dressed, and the tired fugitives,
after being refreshed, were left to their repose. Early in the
morning the Jew visited them again, when our hero expressed to
him their thanks.

You owe me nothing," interrupted the old man ; " my house
and services are freely yours ; he who hath served one so honoured
of o"»r nation hath a claim upon the gratitude of every Hebrew ;
only point out the way in which it may be further useful to you.
It seems that you are a personage of some note, for search hath been
made in every hostel of the city, and severe penalties denounced
against all who harbour you."

And yet you, one of earth's persecuted race, venture to conceal
me."

I am accustomed to danger," resumed the old man, with a
mournful smile, "and therefore almost indifferent to it. In
childhood, when I ventured from my home to breathe the fresh air
of heaven, I was hooted, beaten, and reviled by those of my own age.
I bore it patiently, for I was but a sickly boy — so patiently that at
last my persecutors got tired of tormenting me. My dawning
manhood was but a series of dangers and humiliations. Three days
after my first marriage the home of my wedded love was burnt and
plundered, and my young bride, the idol of my soul, life's richest
pearl, the descendant of a princely race — for the despised sons of
Abram count names as lofty, Christian, as thine own — perished in
the flames. The years which followed were a blank ; but I was
avenged, fearfully avenged."

Thy wrongs indeed were terrible. But how wert thou
avenged ? " demanded Ulrick.

By the captivity of the accursed city whose brutal rabble fired my
peaceful home," sternly replied the Hebrew. "It was Jewish gold
which armed the Conqueror's fleets — which paid his mercenary

troops ; the despised Jew forged the yoke destined for a nation's
neck. "William was but the agent of his wrath. Had I not
procured him vast loans from amongst my people, his barks had
never left the Norman shore ; the very jewels of his ducal crown
were pledged to me — his father's cup — all but his knightly sword."

Is it possible ? " demanded his hearer. " Could a being whom
the world deemed so abject forge the fetters to enchain a country ?
Thou speaks truly, Jew : thou hast been fearfully avenged."

And yet it has not shut out all humanity from my heart. Had
Harold listened to my cry for justice his bones had rested by the
Confessor's. I pointed out the hands to him, red with my Sarah's
blood, and asked for judgment ; he refused me — why ? Those
hands were Christian. In his pride he proffered gold — gold ! "
added the old man, scornfully, " for the life of my young bride —
gold to the man who could have counted treasure with him ten
times o'er ! "

Thou hast suffered much ! " exclaimed his guest, " and I marvel
that, at the request e'en of thy dearest friend, thy door should open
to a Christian. Should any of thy friends who witnessed my
arrival here last night prove treacherous and denounce thee ? "

Fear not," said Falk, with a smile ; " such are not the vices of
our nation ; persecution hath made us faithful to each other. There is
not one of the vilest of our race who, on the sight of Abram's tablets,
would not risk his life to shelter thee ; besides, even the Red King's
wrath would pause ere it reached me ; he hath need of gold, is
negotiating a loan amongst our people, and I am not the poorest of
my tribe."

Beware," said our hero, who felt deeply interested in the old
man's story, " how you hazard your wealth on so poor a surety as
William's faith ; know you not that many of the nobles have already
acknowledged Robert as their king ? — that his uncle, the warlike
Odo of Bayeux, is at the head of the confederacy ? — that, in a few
days, the army of his brother will besiege him in his capital ? This
pageant of a coronation will but render the tyrant's fall more
signal ; his reign will be a brief one."

All," said the Jew ; " I know it all ; and can foresee the end as
truly as though an angel whispered me."

And that will be .? " •

The downfall of your hopes. Robert hath courage, but not that
dogged energy of purpose which wins and guards a crown ; he is too
much the bacchanal of the cup and kiss ; his ally, Roger of Shrewsbury,
is half won over. You smile," continued the speaker, " and
wonder how the poor Jew should prate of such high matter ; but
learn that, if v/e have no voice at the council board of nations, our
gold finds ears there. Yours v\-ill prove the phantom king, and
mine the real one. But, tell me, how can I assist your present
purpose ? "

By procuring me a Siife disguise. I have friends whom I must
speak with."

The Abbot of Bee ? " demanded his mysterious host, with a
smile. " Beware ! there is danger in the visit."

Ulriek started at the query, and a suspicion of the churchman's
treachery glanced across his mind : how else could he reconcile the
Jew's knowledge of his intentions ? Falk smiled at his suspicions,
for he read them as clearly in his changing countenance as though
he had given utterance to them.

You wrong him," he said, replying to his guest's unspoken
thoughts. " Anselm is incapable of treachery. He is the firm friend
of Bishop Odo ; and, knowing that he is so, I guessed it was to him
your letters were addressed. How do you propose to visit him ? "

Dressed in the poorest garb your friendship can supply me with."

Then you are sure to be detected. Suspicion is awakened ; and
humble weeds are more likely to conceal a messenger than knightly
armour or a courtly garb. If you go forth, do so like yourself."

I have no armour," observed Ulriek, who saw at once the
shrewdness of the advice, " and my good steed is sent to Eltham.
It hath already once betrayed its master."

I can supply you with both. When will you set forth ? "

At the sunset hour. But my poor wounded boy," said our hero,
pointing to Gilbert, who lay on his couch wondering what could bethe
subject of conversation between his protector and the Jew ; for
they had both spoken in French, the common language of the
higher classes at the time, and he understood only his rude mother
Saxon.

I will take care of him. As soon as he is strong enough I will
provide him with the means to join you. Can I do more," demanded
the Hebrew, " for the friend of the honoured Abram ? "

Nothing," answered Ulriek, " but to accept his thanks for the
generous hospitality thou hast accorded. Thou hast opened to mea
new page in the history of mankind ; doubt not I will peruse it.
For thine and Abram's sake, the Israelite shall henceforth be indeed,
as well as in humanity, a brother to me. Despite the Church's
dicta," added Ulriek, " reason tells me that Heaven never intended
man to judge his fellow dust."

In that I am repaid," said Falk. " Farewell ! Three hours
before sunset the steed and armour shall be ready."

At the appointed time our hero, nobly mounted, and clad in steel
a monarch might have envied, wearing his visor down, threaded
his way through the City towards Westminster. Several times
during his progress he encountered various portions of the royal
guard, but none presumed to stop or question him. If, as he
supposed, they were on the scent of the fugitive, his appearance was
so different from what Tyrrel and the warder had described, that
none could recognise him in the stately knight who slowly made

his way through the crowded streets of the busy metropolis. He
arrived without interruption at his destination, and once more stood
face to face with the mitred Abbot of Bee.

Welcome, sir knight," said the quiet, astute churchman ; " there
has been hot quest after you. Tyrrel is seriously wounded, and the
king furious at your escape ; you must have warm and true friends
to shelter you, for they have done so at the peril of their lives. As
you value your own," he added, " quit London instantly, for the
city swarms with spies, A large reward is offered for your apprehension."


Not with my errand unachieved."

Leave that to me ; I am unsuspected," observed the abbot ;
your presence cannot advance the cause."

But my letters, father ; my letters to the nobles."

I will deliver them."

I have friends, too, whom my absence "

*' May compromise," urged the priest, glancing uneasily around ;
soon as you quit the abbey, depart at once for Eltham ; there you
will find your good steed waiting, together with letters, which I
have forwarded you by a sure hand for our friends in Kent. You
play a game for life, young man ; throw not a chance away, for you
have crafty enemies upon the watch to seize it."

The advice was too reasonable to be neglected, and Ulrick saw
that the cautious speaker had taken the precaution of forwarding
his letters to Eltham, not to risk compromising either himself or
friends, should their bearer unfortunately be taken. Hastily, therefore,
bidding the priest adieu, he mounted his horse, determined,
without further hesitation, to quit a spot which menaced him with
so many dangers. Unfortunately, in the hurry of his departure, he
neglected the precaution which alone had prevented his arrest in
his progress through the city. He wore his visor up ; and the
warder, whom he had so severely chastised the previous evening,
and who, in the hope of encountering him, had been on the lookout
with a party of his men the entire day, saw, and instantly
recognised him. To seize his horse by the rein, and secure his
sword, was but the work of a moment. He was so securely held,
that resistance would have been as foolish as vain. '

"What means this outrage, knaves?" demanded trick. "Do
you take me for a thief, that you lay hands upon me in open day ?
Beware that you have sure warrant for the deed ; it else may cost
you dear."

"Warrant ! " exclaimed the warder, with a malicious grin. " The
headsman shall be my warrant, since, ere nightfall, he will have to
deal upon thee. By Saint Martin, to hear thee speak, one would
think that coat of mail covered a belted earl, and not a scheming
traitor. Away with him, my masters."

And whither must I go ? " inquired their prisoner.



To the Tower — his highness holds his court there. To think,"
added the fellow, With a laugh, " that silly head of thine should
bring me fifty silver marks ! They will buy plasters for the
hard blows I got last night. Most of my debtors pay me one way
or another — some with their coin, others with blood ; but thou
shalt pay with both."

And thou shalt have more, knave, than thou greatest of, an
thou least not go my rein. I tell thee, I bear a message from the
king ; at peril of your lives detain me."

Ho, ho, ho ! — which king ? " shouted the men, to whom Ulrick's
assertion appeared an excellent jest, so sure were they of his
identity. "The King of the Saxons," as they contemptuously
styled Robert, " or William the Red King .? "

At this instant a party of the royal guard, headed by John of
Montgomery, who was a secret partisan of the elder prince, whose
cause he soon after openly espoused, approached the spot, and
seeing a knight in rich armour, surrounded by several common
men-at-arms, who evidently held him prisoner, halted to inquire the
cause.

The traitor who last night nearly slew Sir Walter Tyrrel ! "
shouted the warder, fearful lest the new-comers should interfere
with his prisoner, and secure the merit of his capture to themselves.

There is a reward of fifty marks upon his head," cried a second.

Peace, fool ! " growled the chief of Ulrick's captors, in an undertone
; " do you want to have the bone snatched from between your
teeth ? You see, sir knight, that we have fairly taken him ; our
party is quite numerous enough to conduct him to the Tower."

You, sir knight," said Ulrick, calmly, as soon as he could obtain
a hearing, " doubtless will listen to reason. I know not whether
these fellows are mad or drunk, or take me for another. I told
them, as I tell you, that I came here on a message from the king.
Question the men ; they saw me quit the abbey — you know it is
the residence of the venerable primate."

John of Montgomery shook his head. He was not deceived
either by Ulrick's calmness or the equivocal truth he told of coming
with a message from the king. His secret inclinations prompted
him to release him ; but prudence whispered that such a step
might prove dangerous to himself. He was one of the few nobles
with whom the Abbot of Bee had tampered, and he doubted not
but in the knight before him he beheld the messenger of Robert to
the priest.

In times less doubtful than the present," he replied, " the word
of a knight would be sufficient ; but duty compels me to ask if you
have no other proof ? "

None," said Ulrick, carelessly. "*

No papers ? "

"No."

'^ammBi'mammm

,^^

STANFIELD HALL.

To be sure he has not," replied the warder, echoing his words ;
come, my masters, away with him."

Back, chm'l ! " exclaimed the commander of the guard, regarding
him sternly ; " it is not for a peasant to arrest a noble. Sir knight,
I must demand your sword," he added, turning courteously to
Ulrick ; " you are my prisoner.' If your tale be true, your captivity
will be but brief ; if not, I shall not ask excuse for performing an
act of duty."

As Ulrick was about to yield himself a prisoner, he suddenly

recollected the signet ring which Abram had given him. To draw

.his mailed glove from his hand, and hold it. to Montgomery's sight,

was but the impulse of a moment. The officer recognised it in an

instant.

By heavens ! " he cried ; " it is the king's own signet ring ! "

The confusion of the warder and his men may be more easily
imagined than described ; like tigers who had missed their spring,
they were about to sneak away, fearful of the consequence of their
mistake, when the voice of their late captive arrested them.

Secure those men."

The guard obeyed him in an instant.

How is it your pleasure we should dispose of them ? "
demanded their leader.

To prison with them."

Montgomery waved his hand, and despite their protestations, they
were dragged away, amid the sneers of the crowd who had collected
round the spot, and who were delighted at the sight of the warder
and his men being sent to prison. They had too often suffered
from their brutality to pity them, but followed their escort, shouting
and triumphing in their disgrace. In a few minutes Ulrick and
the captain of the guard were left alone.

"And now," said the latter, "please you to give me the ring.
I ask not too curiously how you obtained possession of it ; to me
it is sufficient warrant for releasing you from the rude clutches of
these men. Ride you to Eltham ? " he added, with a peculiar smile.

Our hero started, for the words conveyed a deeper knowledge of
his movements than he suspected him possessed of. For a few
moments they regarded each other in silence.

Perhaps," slowly pronounced Ulrick, at last drawing the signet
from his finger and giving it.

"Then ride quickly," continued his questioner. " There you may
chance to find a steed and friends ; every hour you rest in London
may bring those less easy to be satisfied by your story than myself.
Farewell ! sir knight ; perhaps when next we meet we may meet as
friends."

Waving their hands as a signal of adieu, the two knights
separated ; Ulrick to cross the neighbouring ferry on his way to the
rendezvous designated by the worthy abbot, and Montgomery to



relate the history of his capture, and justify his share in his release
by returning William his lost signet-ring.

Oiir hero had journeyed several miles before he perceived that he
was followed by a young fellow dressed in the ordinary travelling
costume of the times, who rode a light horse, whose active pace
enabled him to keep up with his own good steed, encumbered as it
was by the weight of a rider armed cap-a-pie. Turn which way he
would, still the rider pursued the same route ; once, to avoid the
persevering horseman, he made a considerable detour by a wood
which took him a winding distance from the main road towards
Croydon ; but, faithful as his shadow, his pursuer followed him —
stopped when he stopped, and resumed his way as soon as he gave
his steed the rein.

Although Ulrick felt little uneasiness at the idea of a single
enemy, still he was annoyed at being so perseveringly tracked, and
determined to ascertain at once the purpose of the traveller, whose
route, by some caprice, seemed so exactly to tally with his own.

Emerging from the wood, he turned an acute angle of the road,
and reined his horse to await the arrival of the fellow, who could
not possibly ascertain whether he had pursued his way or not till
he was close upon him. The ruse succeeded, for, in a few minutes
he heard the quick, light step of the horse. Wheeling his own
round, he met the rider face to face. It was a lonely, retired spot,
fit for an encounter ; to avoid him was impossible.

The fellow who had so closely dogged him proved to be a young
man about three-and-twenty ; a light pointed beard, rather inclined
to red, adorned his chin, and connected it, by a few straggling silky
hairs, with his moustache ; his air, despite the simplicity of his
dress, was. martial ; and he rode his horse with the air of a man
accustomed alike to war or to the chase,

Ulrick was the first to speak.

It seems, friend, that we ride the same way ; whither are you
bound ? "

That is a question," replied the stranger, *' which a prudent man
scarce cares to answer."

Still it must be answered," said our hero, " if we are to remain
at peace. I suffer no man to dog my steps,"

*' Nor I any man to question mine, whether my errand be of
pleasure or caprice, business or danger. Ride on, sir knight,"
continued the young man, with a quiet smile ; " we shall soon see
if our affairs or inclinations lead us the same way."

There was an easy, half-mocking tone in the speaker's voice
which jarred upon Ulrick's ear, not that there was anything in the
words at which he could fairly take offence ; still it annoyed him.
Pointing to the two roads which diverged from the corner of the
wood, and fixing his eye sternly upon the intruder, who seemed
more amused than frightened by the encounter, he said :

It is my pleasure to ride alone ; choose your way."
And mine to ride in company," coolly answered his tormentor*
The society of so brave a knight is a safeguard to a poor citizen.
It is your own fault that we have come in contact ; I was content
with the protection of your shadow."

Fully convinced that he was followed by some spy or agent of the
tyrant's, the Lord of Cranfield drew his sword, determined at once
to end the matter, for he doubted not but the speaker only waited
their arrival in some village, or an encounter with some of the
partisans of William who patrolled the country, to order his arrest.
A glance of haughty surprise, more than fear, passed over his
tormentor's countenance at the action, and he quietly observed that
he was unarmed — an assertion which, in appearance at least, Alas
true, since neither sword nor weapon of any kind was visible upon
his person ; he seemed totally unarmed.

I cannot raise my sword," exclaimed Ulrick, petulantly, as soon
as he was convinced of the fact, " upon an unarmed man, whatever
may be his intentions, be he spy or enemy."

Of course you can't," coolly answered the horseman, " so you mayas
well sheathe it again. It would be murder ! Besides, if our
roads should prove the same, why not pursue them in good fellowship
together ? "

Because it is my pleasure to be alone."

An unsocial humour that, and savours more of the cloister than
the camp."

The fugitive started at the speech, and asked himself, could the
strange horseman know him, or was it but one of those random
shafts which shrewdness or hazard sometimes wing .? Whichever it
might be, he felt that it was more necessary than ever to separate
from his obtrusive companion, whom he once more sternly bade to
choose his way, as he was resolved to ride alone.

What if it leads to Eltham ? — would you wish me to arrive there
before you ? "

Ere Ulrick could reply, another horseman, well armed and
powerfully mounted, dashed round the corner of the wood, and
seizing the bridle of the stranger's horse, commanded him in
peremptory but respectful tone to follow him.

To my grave as soon," replied the young man. " Villain ! let go
my rein ! Quick, sir knight ! your sword ! — lend me your sword ! "

Ulrick, who deemed the pretended arrest a new pretext to detain
him, set spurs to his horse, and had already gained a short distance
from the scene, when the sound of his own name arrested his
attention. Involuntarily he wheeled roimd to listen — it was repeated
louder than before.

Ulrick of Cranfield ! Craven, false knight ! is it thus you fulfil
your vow of chivalry to aid the unarmed and defenceless ? Thy
blazon will be stained for ever."

The language of the stranger, together with the mingled tones of
entreaty and indignation in his voice, convinced our hero that,
whatever might have been the young man's object in pursuing him,
he was at least no spy, A few seconds brought him to the spot
where the last-comer was still dragging the steed and his prisoner
after him.

By what authority do you arrest this young man ? " he
demanded,

By one not lightly to be disputed," replied the knight, for such
his golden spurs proclaimed him — " the king's ! "

Produce it, then,"

Fool ! dost think a belted knight requires other warrant than
his sword ? Mine shall always answer for its master's deeds to all
who dare to question them ! This, to teach thee a lesson of more
caution,"

Holding the rein of his prisoner's steed in his left hand, the
speaker made a dash at Ulrick, from whose well-tempered helmet
the blow of his sword glanced as from a block of adamant. In the
fierce encounter which ensued he had ample occasion to prove the
value of the Jew's gift — the armour, weapon, and horse were
admirable. Both knights were masters of their weapons, which
flashed with fearful celerity, describing fiery segments round each
other's heads. Their steeds seemed to take part in the struggle ; so
firmly were their riders seated, that one mind appeared to animate
them.

The blows of his opponent — and they were rained both thick
and heavily on Ulrick's armour — tried its strength, but made little
impression ; whilst, on the contrary, the red blood followed in
several places the stroke of his own good sword. Several times they
retreated to short distances to draw breath, which they had no
sooner recovered than, wheeling round, they returned again to the
assault. Although the life-stream damasked the well-polished mail
of the aggressor, his strength was by no means exhausted ; and our
hero, who was apprehensive of the arrival of succour, felt the necessity
of finishing with him. Relying on the training of his steed, the
third time they renewed the encounter, instead meeting the shock,
he dexterously avoided it by passing to the right, striking a furious
blow with his long weapon as he did so on his opponent's helmet ;
so well was it directed, that the steel clasps which united it with
the neck-piece were cut asunder, and a severe wound inflicted.
The wearer's head sank upon his breast, for one of the principal
arteries was severed, and in a few seconds he fell, exhausted by
rapid loss of blood, upon the ground. By the time his enemy had
alighted all was over — the strong man was a corpse,

"A knightly blow, and well struck," exclaimed the young
stranger, " I took thee from the first to be a man of courage,
'Tis well for both of us that we are not deceived. But mount thy

steed, and let us hasten onward ; but first reach me yon traitor's
sword — perchance," he added, " I may have occasion for it yet."

There was too much reason in the advice not to be followed ; the
victor remounted, and for a few minutes rode silently with the
stranger whom he had rescued by his side.

How didst thou learn my name ? " he at last demanded.
I k)||pw the names of most men," drily answered the horseman.
Methinks you were in no haste to claim it."

Indeed," said Ulrick ; " then perhaps you can favour me with
the name of my opponent ? "

Perhaps ; enough for the present that he was as brave a soldier,
and as unscrupulous a villain, as ever followed banner to the field.
Many a knight whose hold might else have blazed, and many a
mother who else had mourned her dishonoured child, may thank
thy arm. His last course on earth is run. But come," added the
speaker, " let us understand each other. Ride we to Eltham ? "

"We do."

In fellowship ? "

"In fellowship," said Ulrick ; " but tell me what is thy name ? "

Henry," replied his companion, " for the lack of a nobler ; my
father gave me little else beside. So call me simply Henry, or
Henry the simple — which you weill ; I am no stickler for ceremOny
it irks me."

So it would seem," replied our traveller, who began to be
rather amused than angry with the fellow's humour. " May a man,
without being thought too curious, demand how you became
acquainted with his name ? By our Lady of the Rood, it came most
opportunely to thy tongue ; perhaps some starling whispered it ? "

By my faith," said the young man, " it was more like a raven
than a starling ; there was blood upon his beak."

And his name ? "

Henry, as the stranger called himself, shrugged his shoulders,
and looked at him with a peculiar smile, as much as to inform the
questioner that that was his secret ; but seeing a frown upon
Ulrick's brow, and probably reflecting that want of confidence was
but a poor return for the service he had received, he answered
frankly that Sir Walter Tyrrel had first told it to him — a piece of
intelligence which caused his companion to regard him once more
with suspicion.

Tyrrel ! " he exclaimed ; " why, he is my bitterest enemy."

Save one," drily added the strange horseman.

And that is ' the king,' as William of Normandy hath styled
himself."

"Ay," said Henry; "and as, tomorrow, Lanfranc will crown
him. The fellow whose throat you so cleverly cut brought me an
invitation to the ceremony ; his method of delivering it was a
rough one, so I declined it."



The easy, familiar tone of the speaker puzzled our hero, who was
at a loss to understand the rank of his companion, and his avowed
connection with WaltaJ" Tyrrel. Had his purpose been unfriendly,
nothing would have been more unlikely than his owning it ;
besides, he was, till Ulrick gave him the dead man's sword,
unarmed, and every step their horses took lessened the distance
between them and danger.

Thou art a riddle ! " he cried, speaking as much to his own
thoughts as to Henry.

And thou no sphinx to solve me. Have a little patience ; and
in time, like the serpent's tail in the emblem of eternity, the puzzle
will unfold itself. Thou seest," he added, " I have dealt with
book craft in ray time — though more, perchance, with men ; but
with thy cloister-breeding thou canst understand me,"

"Perhaps," replied Ulrick, secretly annoyed at the increased
mystification to which he was being subjected.

I tell thee that thou shalt, then. Let that content thee," resumed
the speaker ; " only I bide my time. And now tell me, sir
knight of Cranfield — how dost thou like the strange companion
fortune hath sent thee ? "

So well," said the party he addressed, " that I will put no more
interrogations, lest, knowing thee better, I should like thee less."

Frankly spoken ; there is something fresh in truth ; I know
the sound, although it is so seldom in my short life that I have
heard it spoken. At Eltham the riddle shall be explained."

At Eltham be it," answered Ulrick.

A short ride brought the travellers to the priory of White Friars,
a dependency on the rich abbey of Bee, in Normandy. It was
situated near the village of Eltham, in one of those secluded, quiet,
sunny nooks which the monks of old so loved, and so well knew
how to select, and which in no country are more frequently found
than in merry England. It was one of those spots where silent
sanctity might build its cell, or the broken passions of humanity,
shipwrecked on the sea of life, seek and find repose. The evening
hour ; the stately heron, winging its solitary way to the distant
wood ; the glorious sunset, whose last rays, lingering like a lover's
kiss, gilded the slender pinnacle of the church, — were all in
harmony, forming a soft, dreamy picture, which the horsemen
completed.

On their arrival, they were immediately conducted to the apartment
of the prior, a stately-looking personage, who received them
alone, and who hastened to inform Ulrick that his steed, and the
promised letters from his brother Anselm, had already arrived ; at
the same time informing him that a lodging was already prepared
for him for the night within the walls.

And where am I to lodge ? " demanded the stranger, in a half-petulant
tone, displeased perhaps at being overlooked by the lordly

R 2

churchman ; " is there no room for me, good father, in your pious
rookery ? "

The priest answered haughtily that a cell should be prepared for
him near his master. He was evidently offended by the irreverent
tone of the speaker, whom he took for an esquire or attendant upon
the person of his visitor.

A cell ! " iterated Henry ; " well, a cell be it. "We will do
penance for our sins, since the hospitality of our host so limits our
entertainment ; but when last we hunted in this neighbourhood, if
our memory fails not, we were better lodged ; 'tis true we were not
then a fugitive,"

The prior started from his seat, and approaching the stranger,
overwhelmed him with excuses for not having at once recognised
him ; adding, that he must reproach the Lord of Cranfield for
neglecting to inform him that his walls were graced by the
presence of such an honoured guest."

Faith," said the young man, laughingly, " you must grant the
good knight absolution, then ; for he dreams as little that his
troublesome companion is the youngest son of the Conqueror, as
you, holy father, did yourself."

Prince Henry ! " exclaimed Ulriok, in astonishment, at the
same time bending the knee.

"Ay," said his highness, "Henry the simple, as men call me,
though perhaps, after all, I have more wit than my scoffing brother
dreams, whose fraternal love was so disinterested he could not
bear me from his otvti safe keeping. My lodging is already
furnished in the Tower ; but, like a wilful youth, I preferred my
liberty or Robert's guardianship to his. Tut, man," he added,
never kneel to me ; I am as poor, nay poorer than thyself. Our
father's love, of all his vast possessions left us but one poor hold
in Normandy, and a remembrance upon his treasurer, to be paid
when we can get it."

There was something so frank and soldier-like in Henry's
manner, that our hero felt instantly at his ease ; for, after all, he
had only taken such precautions at their first meeting as necessary
prudence and his safety dictated. The young prince explained
that it was by the advice of Anselm he had quitted London to join
himself to Robert's fortunes, and that he had recognised Ulrick's
person from having been a concealed witness of his first interview
v.ith the abbot.

And who was the traitor ? " demanded our hero, " who would
bave forced your highness back ? "

Richard of Lisieux, our brother's pander, tool, and executioner.
William will miss him sorely when there is some act which fears
the light of heaven to be accomplished. Cranfield," he added,
kindly taking his protector by the hand, " we owe thee a debt of
gratitude for that good blow ; it removed a stumbling-block from out

my path — a bloodhound from my track. Few persons live to tell
the tale of their captivity whom that bad man has guarded."

It was finally arranged that no notice should be taken to the
community either of the arrival or of the high rank of the prior's
guests, who both supped in his apartment, and soon afterwards,
fatigued with the events of the day, retired to rest, each throwing
himself upon his pallet ready dressed, in order to be prepared incase
of danger or surprise.

The prince and Ulrick had not been long sleeping when they
were roused by their host, who, attended by Father Segsil — an
aged Saxon monk, who of the community alone possessed his confidence
— entered their cell.

Rouse, sir knight ! " he exclaimed ; " in less than an hour the
enemy will be upon us. They must not find you here ; Jesu
Maria ! they would burn our convent with as little ceremony as a
burgher's hold."

And whence comes this intelligence, good prior ? " demanded
Henry, starting from his couch. " Would it had tarried some two
or three hours later ; I was indulged by Mistress Fancy with a
dream too glorious ever to be realised. I should like to have
revelled in it some few hours longer.

The intelligence," replied their host, paying little attention to
the latter part of the prince's speech, "is from brother Segsil,"
pointing as he spoke to his companion, who stood regarding Henry
with a look in which hate and interest were strangely mingled.

May he not be mistaken ? " demanded Ulrick.

Father Segsil is never mistaken," replied the prior ; " in an
hour the satellites of William will be here."

Hath any messenger arrived at the convent ? "

No."

May not the good father be mistaken in his intelligence ? "

Father Segsil is never mistaken," repeated their host, gravely ;
his warnings are not to be neglected."

Why, then," said Prince Henry, laughing, " we must e'en obey
them, as our fathers did the oracles of old, blindly and in confidence.
Forgive me, holy man," he added, turning to the aged
monk, whose dark eyes were still fixed immovably upon him, " if
I am somewhat more sceptic than the prior here ; perchance it is
the fault of unclerkly breeding."

Shall I convince thee ? " demanded the old man, in a tone
which seemed to echo from a sepulchre.

Faith ! I demand no better," replied the young man, extending
his left palm, which the monk thrust contemptuously aside ; and
seizing his right hand firmly, fixed the prince's attention by the
intense expression of his gaze.

Thy dream shall yet be realised, proud boy — the crown of
England waits thee."

The prince started ; that which at first he had treated as a jest
became serious, for the monk had indeed interpreted his vision
rightly. The flush of hope and surprise suffused his brow as he
demanded of the soothsayer :

When ? "

When the Red King sleeps his last sleep — when the blood of
the Conqueror's favourite son hath gladdened the oppressed soil of
England, and bid her children hope for peaceful days. Then,"
added the old man, " the crown thou hast so often dreamt of shall
be thine,"

But shall I keep as well as win it ? " demanded Henry, who,
although less influenced by the superstition of the age, could not
avoid placing confidence in the man who had so singularly interpreted
his dream.

That will depend upon thy marriage," replied Father Segsil.
If thou art fortunate enough to win a bride of the royal Saxon
blood, thou shalt die king of England ; if not, the curse of thy
race will overtake thee. Now, then, away ! I speak of the future
to thee no more."

Tell me but this : shall we meet again ? " demanded Henry,

If thou art wise enough to follow my counsel, yes. At the
proudest moment of thy life, if not when the last trumpet
summons earth together, I'll meet thee face to face. Farewell."

Hast thou no good fortune, father, to predict to me .? " said
Ulrick.

The old man gazed mournfully upon him, and shook his head,
muttering to himself :

Saxon — Saxon ; I read it in his open brow and bright blue eye.
Thou hast asked the old priest for a prediction — better have sought
his blessing ; but since the choice is made, take it and begone — a
career of honour, an unstained faith, a soldier's laurel, but a broken
heart. Once more I charge thee," he added, impatiently, " to
begone — ride for your lives. Once past the bridge, you may slack
the rein — no living thing will ever cross it afterwards."

The confident tone of the monk's voice, and the implicit faith
which the prior placed in his intelligence, no matter how
mysteriously obtained, decided the young men at once to depart.
Hastening to the stables, they found their horses ready saddled,
and after a benedicite from the prior and his companion, resumed
their journey, Ulrick leading his grey steed by a loose rein with
him.

Scarcely had they passed the bridge, a short mile from the
convent, and which connected the high banks of a deep ravine, too
steep for any horse to climb, too wide to leap, when the wooden
fabric burst into a brilliant flame, which dark figure were seen
feeding with bundles of straw and faggots. The monk's prediction
came to their recollection — living thing never crossed it more.

CHAPTER Xii.

The morning after Ulrick's departure from Norwich, Robert of
Normandy, at the head of a considerable body of troops and the
nobles who acknowledged his authority, marched from the city.
Herbert de Lozenga, whose experience was of so much value in the
council, accompanied him in quality of chancellor, that prelate
having consented to retain his office at the . entreaty of the new
monarch. Edith and her daughter-in-law retired to Cranfield,
which, removed as it was from the scene of war, a small party of
vassals was sufficient to defend. The bride of Mirvan was their
only guest ; and there, in the antique oratory of the countess, they
offered up their united prayers for the absent warriors' safety.

The prior of the Dominicans, who had accompanied the confiding
monarch to the gate of St. Stephen on his march, had returned to
his convent, and was walking in his stately garden, which extended
from the church (now St. Andrew's Hall) to the water side,
speculating in thoughtful mood upon the future, and not feeling
perfectly in security touching the past. The absence of the curate
of St. Julian's alarmed him, although few, he thought, could blame
him for having extended the rites of Christian burial to a knight so
valiant as Robert of Artois, and his own relative besides. The
principal cause of his uneasiness arose from the Jew, who had so
strangely possessed himself of the prince's signet-ring, and in whose
hands the papers found upon his nephew might be turned to
dangerous account. Twice had he sent to the house of Abram ; it
was empty, not a trace of any living being remained. He had found,
too, upon inquiry, that the vessel to whose captain he had given the
leech the letter had sailed for Rouen, having taken several passengers
with him.

Let but William triumph — and he can scarcely fail to do so,"
he muttered to himself — " and I may laugh at enemies, open or
concealed."

Perhaps ! " exclaimed a voice, so near him that the words were
almost spoken in his ear. Eborard started, and beheld a pale,
attenuated being, meanly clad, regarding him with a fixed look.
His forehead was high and bald, his face marked with a thousand
minute scars, which gave it a most ghastly appearance, and his
limbs seemed to sink under him from sickness or want.

And who art thou, fellow ? " demanded the prior, with a haughty
stare of surprise, " who dearest so boldly answer to our thoughts, and
how gainst thou entrance here ? "

By the old way ! " replied the strange intruder, whom our
readers have already, no doubt, recognised as Robert of Artois.

The old way ! " iterated the puzzled churchman ; " what old
way ? "

The secret door behind the statue of St. Dominic in the
cloisters," replied the stranger, for such he appeared to his uncle,
where you once heard a strange confession, father, and performed
a stranger deed." .

And what was that ? " demanded Eborard, still more and more
amazed.

The marriage of a Christian with a Jewess."

Hush ! " exclaimed the astonished prior, turning pale at the
words, which had been spoken loudly, for the mere whisper of such
a sacrilege would have been sufficient to subject him to the censure
of the Church ; and, if proved, to deposition from the high rank he
held within its pale.

Even as you please," said the mysterious man : " I wish not
to offend you."

How didst thou learn the fearful secret ? "

Because I witnessed it," replied his tormentor, whose object
was to work upon the fears of his reverend uncle ; for he knew him
too well to expect much pity or generosity at his hands should he
make himself known to him. " Added to which, I have the fact
attested under the hand and seal of Robert of Artois."

Where is it ? " eagerly demanded the priest, who felt how
necessary to his safety it was to possess himself of such an important
document. " Hast it with thee ? "

"It were a wise trick that ! " exclaimed his nephew, " to bring my
gage of safety to the enemy's camp ! No, no, sir priest, I am not
to be caught in such a springe ; the paper is in secure hands, who
will transfer it to the primate should aught like ill occur to me."

Thickest thou," stammered Eborard, " that I am capable of ? "

Every thing," interrupted the wretched man ; " nay, frown not,
priest, nor raise thine eyes in pious mockery to Heaven, to attest
the innocence thou hast long since lost ; enough for me, I know
thee," he added ; " know thee better than the confession ever yet
revealed thee — better even than thou knowest thyself. Now let us
deal together."

What wouldst thou — gold ? " demanded the terrified churchman,
who inwardly cursed himself that he had ever yielded to the
passionate menaces and entreaties of his nephew, and performed
the sacred rite between him and Rachel — the only condition on
which the haughty Jewess consented to be his ; for, although she
placed no faith in the ceremony herself, she thought it might bind
him.

I would," laconically answered Robert.

What sum ? "

As much as will defray the expense of a knightly suit of
armour and a good steed — say two thousand marks : thou seest
I am moderate to begin with."

Two thousand devils," groaned the prior ; " where should I

find so vast a sum ? Dost take our poor priory for a bishop's see ? An
I were to count you half the sum, the brotherhood would keep a
twelvemonth's Lent."

'* Take it, then, from the treasure which thy nephew confided to
thy care," said his disfigured creditor ; " ten thousand chances if ever
he returns from Purgatory to claim it at your hands."

What treasure ? " faltered Eborard.

The twenty thousand marks in gold," sternly replied Robert ;
'' to say nothing of the vessels of gold and silver torn from many
an outraged shrine. The money, quick, at once ; for I am sick of
parleying with thee ; and, now I think on't," he added, " make it
three thousand marks — it will save trouble for us both."

Eborard thought it best to comply with the demands of his
unwelcome visitor at once, lest they should rise as he disputed
them ; he felt he was in his power, and had no resource left but to
obey. His secret, whilst confined to his own breast, was his slave ;
in the possession of another, it became his master, and he submitted
to its chains. Motioning to Robert to follow him to his cell, he
counted down the gold to him with a heavy heart ; for, like most
worldly natures, he clung to the yellow dross ; it was an idol which
in his selfish breast had replaced the purer image of his God.

There ! " he exclaimed, as the last glittering piece fell from his
reluctant fingers ; " I trust thou art satisfied."

For the present," coolly replied his nephew, pouching the coin.
Farewell. Perhaps we may one day meet again."

The paper — the confession of Robert of Artois ? " demanded
Eborard, with an imploring look, which showed the importance he
placed on the possession of it. " When shall it be mine ? "

"Never," said his creditor, "till I am paid in full. Fear not — it
is in safe hands ; I am not likely to slay the goose which lays such
golden eggs. Sleep in peace till next thou hearest from me ; that
is," he added, "if a soul so black as thine can sleep. Hast any
message to William of Normandy ? — for in three days I trust to join
him. There is work to do in which I may be useful."

None," sighed the prior ; " at least none which thou canst
bear."

I have no other means to gain access to him," resumed his
tormentor, with a smile — the first which, since his fearful punishment,
had been seen upon his pale, disfigured countenance. " Adieu,
most pious father," he added, with a sneer. " I do not ask
thy benediction, lest it should turn to curses on my head."

Adieu," said the priest, as he left the cell ; " and may all the
plagues of Egypt go along with thee ! Who can this ruffian be," he
murmured, " who thus holds my destiny in his rude hands ? Can
it be some agent of the accursed Jew ? No matter who, I am in
his toils ; and resistance, like regret, is equally in vain."

In the manner in which Robert of Artois had approached his

uncle, he had shown a true appreciation of his character. If he
had revealed himself, ten to one he had not been believed. Besides,
in his own person, the crafty prior might have defied him, for he
could not have denounced him for the sacrilege he had committed
in marrying him to Rachel without implicating himself — a thing
most anxiously to be avoided. He had suffered as few men have
suffered, and the effect produced within his mind was as great as
the change upon his person ; but whether for good or evil, time
alone can tell.

Concealing his gold carefully upon his person, he passed the city
gates, having first provided himself with a good steed, which he
bought of a Saxon peasant, who had most probably stolen it from
some straggler of Prince Robert's army, for the price at which he
sold it was a vile one.

Now, then, for London," muttered Robert of Artois, when he
was fairly on his journey. " Like a shadow of the past, I will appear
amongst them ; like a voice from the tomb, I will croak my
predictions in their ear. There is one being left in the world who
still, perchance, may love me ; let me seek him out ; and then as
destiny or inclination hereafter may decide."

As William, two days after his coronation, was leaving his capital
to march to the encounter of his brother, who, by the advice of his
counsellors, had thrown himself into Kent, he was accosted by a
knight, sheathed in a plain black coat of mail, who demanded an
audience in private. There was something in the tone of the
speaker's voice which told the Red King he was no stranger to him ;
and despite the remonstrances of his attendants, whom he commanded
to ride apart, the favour was accorded. Long and earnest
was the conversation which ensued, the monarch frequently
expressing by his gestures both interest and surprise. At last, at
his request, the stranger raised his visor, and disclosed the features
of his favourite, Robert of Artois ; but so changed, as we have
described, that but for the unanswerable proofs of his identity,
which from former passages between them he had been enabled to
adduce, and the strange tale of his metamorphosis which he had
related, his master never could have credited his assertion.

This is indeed the poetry of vengeance," exclaimed the king, ina
voice almost of pity ; for there were still, when his evil passions
were not roused, some traces of humanity in him ; but fear not,
Robert, thou shalt have ample means of paying back the Jew thy
debt with interest. My lords," he added, beckoning his suite to
approach, " henceforth the noble stranger is attached to our person ;
for the present, it is his pleasure that his name and rank should be
concealed. Know him, then, but as William's friend, and the Black
Knight. The time, I trust, will soon arrive when we may grace
him with a nobler name, the one he hath so long and faithfully
borne ; till that hour arrives it is our pleasure that none question

him of the past. Forward, my friends," he added, at the same time
setting spurs to his impatient steed ; " forward to Kent."

It is far from our intention to trace the course of the civil war
which ensued, with varying success, between the two brothers :
history hath more faithful chroniclers than we can presume to be.
William — as crafty as Robert was generous and rash — contrived
to engage the affections of his Saxon subjects by liberal concessions
in their favour. They were now so thoroughly subdued, that few
longer aspired to the recovery of their ancient liberties, but were
content with the promised mitigation of the iron rule of their
Norman princes. The Red King at last contrived to detach Roger,
Earl of Shrewsbury, from his brother's interests, who, with his
powerful fleet, prevented the arrival of succours which the confederates
expected from Normandy ; thus place after place fell into
his hands, and despite the devotion of Odo of Bayeux, Ulrick, and
the few nobles who still adhered to a falling cause, Pevensey Castle
alone held out for Robert.

It had for some time been besieged in vain ; the great natural
strength of its position rendered it almost impossible to betaken
except by famine. Changing, therefore, his often foiled plan
of assault into a blockade, William set down to besiege it in due
form.

In the various battles which had been fought our hero had twice
preserved the life of Robert, who repaid him by an attachment as
sincere as he was capable of entertaining. Often would he, when
walking with him on the ramparts, indulging in familiar conversation,
express his regret that Heaven had not blessed him with such
a son. " I feel," added the unhappy prince, " that then I should
have something worth living for." It was evident that some secret
sorrow prompted this regret ; but Ulrick possessed too much
delicacy to seek his confidence on the only point where he seemed
disposed to be reserved.

It was on a similar occasion, when the dreamless monarch, who
for a considerable time had been silently occupied in watching the
night fires of the enemy, whose forces encircled the last spot of
ground which owned his authority in England, turned suddenly
round to his companion, and breaking silence, exclaimed :

I am weary of being cooped up like a wild fox in my den.
What thickest thou, Ulrick — are we not strong enough to lead a
sortie from the keep ? My sword is getting rusty for lack of use,
and I feel the gall within my heart is rising daily to my lips ; a
bout might cure me of this folly, or end it, perchance, at once.
'Tis but the hour of ten ; by midnight all might be prepared."

The Lord of Cranfield, whose absence from Matilda made the
monotony of his existence but more drear, eagerly caught at the
proposal, and they were descending the ramparts to give the orders
necessary to carry it into effect, when they encountered the

venerable Edda and Herbert de Lozenga, who were both hurrying
to a lone watch-tower at a distant angle of the castle. The prince
informed them of the project he had just conceived, which the
prelate listened to with a reproving air, for although a man of peace,
he saw at once that, even if successful, it would be attended with
no ultimate advantage.

You hear our pleasure doubtingly, my lord," said Robert, in a
half-offended tone.

I may question its wisdom, sire," replied Herbert, " without
presuming to censure it. Our only hope is that succours from
France or Normandy may arrive ; but for your unhappy quarrel
with my Lord of Shrewsbury, they had been here ere this. Wait
but a little and "

I'll wait no longer ! " replied the monarch sternly ; then added,
for he saw that his manner had given pain, " Yet still am thankful
for your prudent counsel. Truth is, my lord, I am weary of this
world of treachery and disappointment. The brightest gems in
England's crown could not console me longer for the absence of
green fields and a merry chase. I must do something to break my
thrall, lest in very spleen I turn upon myself and devour my own
heart. France — pshaw ! by Rollo, but our brother the other side of
the Manche has had good reason, long ere this, to leave us to om*
fate. "William has found the way to grease the Frenchman's palm ;
I have no hope fi-om France."

But I have, sire," quietly observed the bishop ; " brighter than
ever."

You have received letters, then, my lord ? " observed TJlrick,
eagerly.

"No."

*' Nor message ? " added Robert.

None. I see," said the prelate, with a smile, " this mystery
displeases you. Deign to come with me, sire ; if there be treason,
it shall be explained. Trust me it is no dangerous one ; for the
noble Edda and myself, together with a few poor monks, are the
sole conspirators."

With these words the speaker resumed his way, followed by the
aged Saxon and the two warriors ; not a word was spoken till they
arrived at the tower we have already mentioned.

Now, then, for the conspiracy ! " exclaimed Herbert, lighting a
lamp, and placing it in one of the loopholes of the battlement ; " it
will soon be answered."

Robert saw to his surprise that a similar light, in a few seconds,
made its appearance in the window of a belfry attached to a small
convent, removed about a bow-shot from the line of the enemy's
camp.

It is already answered," said Edda ; " the intelligence is good."

By placing the lamps in different positions, questions were asked

and the responses made — a system of telegraphing which lasted
about twenty minutes ; at the end of which time the prelate,
turning with a smiling face to Robert, informed him despatches
had arrived from France.

And their contents, my lord ? " hastily demanded the prince.

In ten days succour will arrive, winds and the will of Heaven
permitting," answered Herbert.

Isn't sure ? "

Most certain."

Still will I forth to-night. I feel an impulse not to be controlled.
The fierce spirit of the founder of my race is on me,"
added the prince ; " it is an omen presages me success. Within the
hour, the moon will set. Let the soldiers arm themselves with flax
and torches ; bring flasks of oil to pour upon the tents. By Rollo's
sword ! Pevensey shall witness a blaze this night to light up its old
towers ! See to it, Cranfield."

Ulrick eagerly withdrew to prepare the men for the night's work,
which he doubted not Avould be v/arm and bloody ; for, whatever
might be Robert's defects as a leader, want of courage was not one ;
though, unfortunately, it was of that reckless kind which, however
valuable in an individual soldier, is little to be desired in a chief.

The bishop remained silent ; he saw no good could result from
the attempt, but knew that it would be useless to oppose it further,
for Robert had sworn by the oath of his race — the only pledge
which the princes of his house were never known to violate. The
experienced Edda also disapproved of the expedition.

You, my good father," resumed the prince, " will summon
our council., and impart the intelligence. You have no need of my
weak head to aid you ; whatever your wisdom may decide upon,
Robert is always ready to approve."

"Always ? " demanded Herbert, perhaps rather maliciously.

Always, unless it cross my previous resolution. Farewell," he
added ; " wait but an hour longer on the ramparts, and you shall see
a blaze, old friend, to cheer your drooping spirits : the camp of my
rebel brother shall feed the flame."

The party had scarcely left the ramparts when a figure, which
had been hid by one of the huge embrasures of the battlements,
stepped from its place of concealment into the bright moonlight, and
throwing aside the cloak which enshrouded him, discovered the
person of a man-at-arms, who had evidently been a spy upon their
conversation. A deep red cicatrice extending from the temple to the
jaw identified Peter Norbeck, the ruffian from whose brutality, our
readers will recollect, Ulrick had saved Abram the Jew, and who
had vowed vengeance for the chastisement his insolence and cruelty
so well had merited. With a smile of mingled satisfaction and
hatred he drew an arrow from his quiver, and shot it towards a low
mound lying between the castle and the enemy's camp, and

remained for a few minutes leaning on his bow to watch the result.
A low flame from some kindled brushwood told the traitor that his
intelligence had been received ; and he left the ramparts to return
to his abandoned guard, muttering as he went — " I have kept my
word, Norbeck's oath of vengeance hath never yet been broken."

The intended sortie from the castle was betrayed.

Robert of Normandy and his chosen band had halted about half
a mile from William's camp, to give final instructions for the assault.
The spot was a long avenue of aged oaks, opening on the plain,
where the tents of the enemy were clearly to be seen in the pale
moonlight. Some of the men were carrying dry furze and combustible
matter, which they had hastily collected for the occasion ;
others were whispering together', calculating the plunder which
would probably be found in the tents of the Red King and his
nobles, whilst the principal leaders of their own party were bidding
adieu to Herbert de Lozenga and Edda, who had accompanied the
expedition thus far on its way.

Be not too rash ! " exclaimed the warlike prelate ; " your
enemies are numerous, and should they rally after their first surprise,
must overwhelm you. Remember, Ulrick, you have now a
being whose existence hangs on yours ; remember that your life is
pledged deeply to her, as to your country, and that one rash act "

A deep groan from the speaker interrupted the conclusion of his
caution, as he sank mortally wounded by an arrow which some
unseen hand had winged. The aged Edda caught him as he fell.

Treason ! " shouted Robert of Normandy and the knights, who
witnessed with horror the cowardly assassination ; " we are beset !
To arms ! to arms ! "

A party of William's followers, who had been planted in ambush,
rushed from their concealment in the forest ; Tyrrel headed them,
urged on by the double motive of hatred to Ulrick and the desire to
distinguish himself in the cause upon whose success his promised
earldom depended. Many of Robert's men-at-arms, encumbered by
the brushwood and materials they had gathered, died ere they could
draw their weapons ; others fled. The principal object of the enemy
seemed to be to secure the person of the prince, whom Odo of Caen,
and his namesake of Bayeux, and several knights, stoutly defended,
reckless of their own lives, provided thej^ preserved that of the unfortunate
monarch to whom they had sworn allegiance. As brave as he
was rash and inconsiderate, Robert for awhile resisted every attempt
to conduct him to the fortress ; but with each moment's delay
the danger which menaced him and his devoted defenders increased.
Bands of dark, fierce-looking mercenaries were beginning to form in
compact bodies round them ; the one headed by Tyrrel had already
taken the party in the flank, so as to cut off their retreat. Uh'ick,
who had vainly attempted to rally the fugitives, saw the danger,
and, at the head of a dozen of his Saxon followers, threw himself

between his friends and the enemy to defeat it. Here the battle
raged most fiercely ; the sword of TJlrick did fearful execution ;
each sweep left a gap in the compact Norman ranks, which their
overwhelming numbers .alone enabled them to fill up. The rival
leader fought with all the desperate courage of humbled pride,
ambition, and unslaked hate.

Save the king ! " shouted our hero, who saw that he and his
gallant band would uselessly be sacrificed, unless immediate advantage
were taken of their devotion to retreat to Pevensey, for longer
resistance was impossible.

Down with the traitors ! " echoed Tyrrel, who felt like a
famished tiger when he sees his prey escaping him. " Five hundred
marks for this boaster's head ! — a thousand for the person of
Prince Robert ! "

Animated by the hope of reward, again the mercenaries rushed
on the faithful few ; but though they were again repulsed by the
calm courage with which they were encountered, another such
attack must needs be fatal. Half of Ulrick's little band had bit the
dust, and two were wounded. Again, therefore, he shouted with
increased energy and desperation to save the king and to retreat to
Pevensey.

Robert, who had resisted every persuasion of those around him to
retreat, no sooner heard the voice of Tyrrel offering a thousand
marks for his person, than he became a changed man. Flinging
away his broken brand, he turned to those near him, saying in a
husky voice ;

The sin of our youth hath found us. The day is against us. On,
friends, to Pevensey ! — 'tis our last hope."

It is doubtful whether the devoted courage of the Lord of Cranfield
could have secured them from falling into the hands of the .enemy,
had not a party, headed by Mirvan, sallied from the castle to assist
them, for the shouts of the combatants had been heard through the
stillness of the night upon the battlements, and the garrison judged
their friends had been surprised.

Even thus supported, their retreats with difficulty accomplished ;
they rushed pell-raell into the courtyard ; and so close was the
pursuit, that the drawbridge, which was raised the instant they had
passed, let several of the enemy into the deep moat as it rose, for
their feet were already upon it : the arrows of the men-at-arms
upon the watch-tower soon despatched them.

Where is the bishop ? " demanded William de Warrennene.

Dead " ' groaned Robert.

And Ulrick ? " said Mirvan, anxiously looking round.

Dead or a prisoner, too."

That night there was scant revelry in the beleaguered fortress of
Pevensey.

The following morning the warder brought notice that a gibbet

was being erected within bow-shot of the walls, the ground around
it was kejjt by a numerous body of archers, and that the troops of
"William were assembling in vast numbers in order to be present at
an execution of more solemnity than usual.

Mirvan heard the intelligence with dismay, for his fear but too
rightly foreboded that it was for Ulrick, for the companion of his
youth, the friend of his heart, the husband of Matilda. Half-frantic
with grief and indignation, he imparted his suspicions to Prince
Henry, who immediately conducted him to his brother's chamber,
where the council was already assembled.

The chiefs were debating on the propriety of holding out to the
last, or at least till the promised aid from France should arrive ;
their position, though wearying, was anything but desperate.
Pevensey was strongly garrisoned, well-provisioned, and, except
from treachery within, might long protract its surrender. Robert
sat listening to the debate more like an unconcerned spectator thana
king whose crown and life were perchance at issue. His heart
was crushed ; from some secret cause the conduct of Tyrrel deeply
affected him ; and the probable fate of Ulrick, who had so
generously devoted himself to insure his safety, weighed Deeply on
his spirits, Mirvan's tale roused him from his apathy.

What ! " he exclaimed, starting from his chair, " the gibbet for
the bravest knight that ever drew his sword in honour's cause ?
Perish thus ignominiously for my sake ? — never, never ! Decide,
my lords, upon some means to save him. My crown — my life —
whatever my cruel brother will, to ransom him ; but cursed be my
name, and stained my shield, if Ulrick perish, and through fault of
mine ! "

Odo of Bayeux, although deeply grieved at Ulrick's misfortune,
contemplated no such sacrifice to save him. His own ambitious
projects, which aimed at nothing less than the Papacy, demanded
that his favourite nephew should be king ; and to advance his
views one step, he would have bartered a hundred lives, and
thought the attainment of it cheaply paid. He proposed, therefore,
that a herald should be sent to William's camp, offering ransom for
the prisoner, and declaring that, in the event of any outrage being
offered to his life, his friends would fearfully retaliate upon all of
the opposite party who might fall into their hands.

Robert heard the proposal with undisguised contempt ; he knew
too well the ferocious disposition of his brother to suppose for one
moment that any consideration of humanity could influence him.
The rest of the council approved of the idea, Mirvan alone excepted.

Whilst the debate was going on, the dreamless king took up a pen,
and amused himself by writing, occasionally' listening to what the
various speakers urged, without showing his letter to any one, ho
carefully sealed it with his private signet, and placing it in the
hands of Mirvan, whispered him :



^r .^-^/^

Take it to William's camp ; let a herald and a flag of truce
precede you, I know the price of your brother's life, and, vast as
it is, I am prepared to pay it. Away ! before these selfish men
suspect and seek to thwart our purpose."

Mirvan kissed the hand of the generous, but rash and feeble,
prince ; he half-suspected the sacrifice he was about to offer to
the shrine of friendship and honour, and quitted the room in
silence.

Where goes my Lord of Norwich ? " demanded Bishop Odo,
looking anxiously after him ; " I trust, fair nephew, you have no
secrets from your friends — proved friends — such as we are ? "

This was too direct a question to be evaded ; from any other than
so near a relative Robert would have answered haughtily, and
perhaps even so to him had not his soul been oppressed with the
bitterness of its sorrows and disappointments. It was one of those
moments when we feel the insufficiency of worldly grandeur — when
the phantoms of the past, like mournful shadows, obscure the
interests and passions of the present — when pride appears as ashes,
power as worthless, and the heart thirsts to indulge in those sympathies
which adorn and dignify humanity — sympathies which form
the perfect part of an imperfect whole — the mortal signs of an
immortal spirit.

'• I can treat with my brother better," he answered, to his uncle,
"than through my council, for we have long understood and
known each other."

This is folly — spleen ! " exclaimed the prelate ; " the very madness
of misgoverned judgment ! Wouldst fling a sceptre from thy
head as twere a spinster's distaff ? "

"Perhaps," carelessly replied Robert; "especially if the toy
encumbered me."

Recall the messenger ; this must be prevented."

Odo and several of the knights advanced towards the door, when
the prince with great dignity placed himself between them, still
holding in his hand the pen with which he had written to his
unnatural brother. Possessed of great mobility of character, the
outrage to his rank had roused him ; the fierce passion of his race
was upon him, and his eyes flashed with ill-suppressed indignation.
In an instant the sadness of his heart had passed away.

Is this your deference," he uttered sternly, " to your sovereign's
will — this, my lords, your loyalty to the monarch you have sworn
allegiance to ? Remember," he added, " but one scratch of this
pen " — here the speaker dashed it from him as he spoke — " and
William is your lawful king ; and you, instead of loyal nobles,
become a herd of vile conspirators, — your lands given to confiscation,
your heads the axe's forfeit prey. Advance one step to recall my
messenger, and I declare my abdication, proclaim my brother king,
without one stipulation for your lives and honours ; and well you

S 2

STANFIBLD HALL.

know the tender William's mercy ! As it is, whatever our own fate,
yours shall be cared for ; whatever our own sacrifice, your lands
shall remain secure."

The members of the council gazed upon each other in surprise and
consternation. The dilemma was too serious a one to be trifled
with ; they felt that without the prince they were but a band of
conspirators, without hope of mercy. Before they could recover
themselves, the fall of the portcullis announced that Mirvan had
departed with the herald, when all thoughts of opposition ceased ;
,for they would have been as useless as dangerous. Robert listened
coldly to their protestations of respect and submission, and waved
them haughtily fi'om his presence.

My poor brother," exclaimed Prince Henry, taking him kindly
by the hand as soon as they were left alone, " is this sacrifice indeed
worth making .? Remember that a crown once lost is seldom e'er
regained. Reflect, it is not yet too late."

I have reflected," answered Robert, calmly.

My heart would burst were it longer prisoned here, shut up
with mere lip loyalty, petty jealousies, and vile ambitions. Besides,
I long for the green woods again ; I am sick of human faces, and
want to look on nature, to talk with her in her deep recesses. Her
silent voice will pour no odious flatteries in my ear, waken no storm
of passions in my heart. I would forget the past, and all that can
remind me of it," he added : " its vain regrets, its broken hopes, its
worm which never dies. Woman's love hath palled upon my lip,
man's treachery left but a sepulchre within my heart. I have
found but one being constant, in friendship devoted, generous,
true ; he hath sacrificed himself for me : he shall not perish if my
crown can save him."

It was while labouring under feelings bitter as these that the
unhappy prince, a few years later, sold his duchy of Normandy to
the rapacious William for the contemptible sum of ten thousand
marks, and engaged but a band of adventurous followers in the
Crusades, which Peter the Hermit so successfully preached throughout
the principal countries of Europe. But we are anticipating
events ; it is time that our readers returned to Ulrick, whom we
left contending with his old enemy, Tyrrel, to protect the retreat of
his friend and sovereign, the unfortunate but generous Robert.

Opposed to overwhelming odds, it was the object of our hero, to
sell his life dearly rather than be taken, for he well knew the fate
which would await him at the hands of William and his worthy
minion ; but, despite his frantic courage, and the numbers which
fell beneath his weapon, he was at last surrounded and disarmed.
The large reward which the leader of his enemies offered for
securing him alive tempted many (tf the men-at-arms to risk their
own lives in securing him. Tyrrel's joy knew no bounds when he
beheld the being whose superiority' he had always hated a helpless



prisoner before him ; every epithet which insulting cowardice
could apply to vanquished heroism did he lavish on his captive, who
bore it with that calm, silent contempt which often strikes deeper in
the breasts of the unworthy than scorn or loud reproaches. When
brought before William and his nobles in the tent of the former, his
demeanour was cold and dignified ; and when that tyrant, with a
refinement of cruelty, condemned him to the gibbet, although his
cheek might blanch, his glance was as free and his mien as erect as
ever. So favourable was the impression, that even his enemies
thought it hard that so noble a knight should be so unnecessarily
degraded. Some interceded for him, but in vain ; the Red King
affected to despise the history of his birth, and condemned him as a
mere peasant to the shameful tree.

It is the crime, and not the scaffold, which dishonours,"
answered Ulrick, proudly, as he heard his doom. " All true hearts,
fierce prince, will judge thy judgment, and infamy will brand thy
memory with it."

Wounded and bleeding as he was, he was hurried from the
tyrant's presence, and cast into a dungeon till the coming morning ;
then to be again led forth, to meet his doom.

As we have described, the gibbet was erected within bow-shot of
the castle, and most of William's troops were on the ground ; the
Red King and his favor-ites arrived soon after to see our hero die.
The coward heart of Tyrrel beat high with gratified revenge ; he
anticipated with ferocious joy each pang, and revelled in the idea
of the agonies which such an ignominious death would cause his
victim's proud and gallant spirit.

At the foot of the fatal tree stood a fellow clothed in a crimson
shirt, which descended nearly to his ankles ; his sleeves were rolled
up to the shoulder, displaying his coarse, muscular arms ; he was,
perhaps, the least excited spectator of the scene. He was coolly
occupied in selecting a coil of rope from a number near him and
twisting it into a slip-noose — the occupation proclaimed the
executioner.

"snow, marshal," exclaimed William, turning to Sir Richard
Whetstone, " how long are we to wait ? Hath not the shaveling
trussed the fellow for the gibbet yet, or must we lose the morning
chase to wait the good father's pleasure ? "

Be not impatient," replied the knight, in deep disgust ; " your
victim, sir, is ready."

Many of the nobles beheld with equal indignation the execution
of a man whom they had so often encountered in the battle-field,
whose courage had been the theme of even the common soldier's
tongue, and whose enmity to Tyrrel they thought justified by that
unworthy favourite's insolence and presumption. Several of them
had solicited William in his favour : he had sternly refused to
listen to their prayer, or change the unsightly nature of his death.

Ha, ha, ha ! " shouted Tyrrel, as soon as Ulrick reached the
fatal spot, " I thought his vaunted courage would abandon him at
last. See how pale the traitor is ! "

With loss of blood, then," coolly answered Ulrick ; " but,
coward, I parley not with thee. Once more I do protest, for the
honour of my knighthood, against the degrading nature of my
death, which only a mind framed like a tyrant's could have
conceived, or men lost to honour execute. Now then I am ready
to meet my fate as becomes a Christian and a noble."

As a traitor and a felon ! " shouted Tyrrel.

Away with him to the gibbet ! — fit end for the vile peasant ! "

So disgusted was Roger of Shrewsbury with Tyrrel's conduct,
that he dashed his mailed glove in the villain's face, exclaiming ashe
did so :

Cur ! another such a word, and I'll rend thy fawning, lying
tongue from out thy mouth. For his treasons, his judges best can
answer for their judgment ; but peasant he is none : and I
proclaim him liar, craven, and forsworn — aye," he added, fixing his
eyes upon William — " e'en though he wore a crown — who dares to
brand him one ! His death is a murder, not an execution ! "

A murmur of approbation from the nobles "near, Who were
equally disgusted with the speaker, warned William that he was
treading upon dangerous ground ; still, in the bitterness of his
hatred, he determined to persevere. Tyrrel, pale and subdued by
the noble scorn and haughty glance of so powerful a noble as Roger
of Shrewsbury', withdrew behind his master.

Proceed with the execution," exclaimed the impatient monarch ;
let us end this scene."

Ulrick, despite his courage and lofty resolution, turned pale as
the minister of shame approached him ; it was not death he feared —
it was dishonour. Ere, however, the ruffian could lay a hand upon
him, Mirvan, his horse covered with foam, followed by the herald
whom he had outridden, galloped on the ground ; and, advancing
to the Red King, placed his brother's letter in his hand, who turned
alternately pale and red with emotion as he perused it,

What are your orders, sire ? " demanded Whetstone, kindly
holding that something favourable to Ulrick had occurred.

Suspend the execution," said William, with ill-concealed rage.

Your highness ! " exclaimed Tyrrel, fearful lest his victim
should escape.

Back, sir knight," cried his master, haughtily, and not unwilling
to mortify him ; " this is beyond your sphere. Guard your prisoner,
marshal, but treat him well. Let us," he added, turning to the
principal nobles near him, " in to council."

Whetstone cut his prisoner's cords, and in an instant Ulrick and
Mirvan were locked in each other's embrace ; whilst Tyrrel stood
confounded and abashed at the strange termination of the scene.

CHAPTER XVII.

During the following morning a spacious pavilion, destined for
the meeting of the royal brothers, was erected on the plain, at an
equal distance from the camp of the Red King and the beleaguered
fortress. There, for the first time since the Conqueror's death, the
two princes were to meet, and articles of peace be debated between
them. The position of William, though thus far victorious, was
anything but sure. The crown sat but loosely on his brow ; to bind
it there securely he was obliged to make concessions, at which his
haughty soul revolted, to the nobles and clergy, many of whom, withall
his condescensions, were but coldly satisfied.

Robert, although reduced to the strong castle of Pevensey,
possessed a moral strength in his alliance with the French king,
which the adherence of Lanfranc and the barons barely balanced in
his rival's cause ; added to which, the promised aid from France
might still arrive, and turn the tide of fortune in his favour. The
usurper was too keen a gamester not to calculate every chance ; like
most heartless men, he was capable of sacrificing even his resentments
to his interests, and hence the order to suspend the execution
of our hero ; for the generous Robert, in his letter, expressly
declared that all attempts at negotiation would be vain if a single
hair of Ulrick's head were touched.

Many loiterers, attracted by the coming interview, were lingering
round the spot ; amongst others, Tyrrel and Robert of Artois, whom
we shall henceforth designate by the name he bore in the camp,
that of the Black Knight. The mystery which attached to his
person — his intimacy with the king, as well as the cold habitual
reserve of his manner, which forbad all attempts at approach — made
him an object of curiosity with many, and of a superstitious dread
with others. Tyrrel, however, only saw in him a dangerous rival
in his master's favour ; he was jealous of his importance, and
anxious to find some clue to his secret as a means of supplanting
him, the first step to which he naturally thought would be to bring
about a certain degree of intimacy : the present was too good an
occasion to be thrown awa3\

Bon jour, sir knight ! " he exclaimed, in a careless, off-handed
tone, as he advanced towards ' the spot where the object of his
speculation was standing, gazing with a dreamy look upon the various
preparations.

The Black Knight simply bowed his head without replying, but
Tyrrel was not to be so put off.

So," he continued, " our campaign is nearly over. Robert,
though a foolish prince, is at least a generous master, since he resigns
his crown to save his favourite's life."

A sacrifice till now unheard of," replied the party addressed,
in the hist ry ^'^ princes. Their memory, like water, retains no

trace of the absent object once reflected there. The most devoted
service, in their eyes, is but a duty scantily paid ; their promises areas
unstable as the winds, with which their favour changes."

You, at least," said Tyrrel, " have no reason to complain, since
your favour with the king exceeds the proudest nobles ; his
confidence in you is as unbounded as your merits. Many envy the
Chevalier Noir — since it is his pleasure only to be known as such —
his hold on William's friendship."

Perhaps fools often take mere tinsel for pure gold," answered
the Black Knight, carelessly ; " but you," he added, " ought to be
equally satisfied. The services you have rendered Rus us are deep
and many : first you released him from, prison ; conducted him
to London to be crowned ; detected the correspondence of his
enemies ; and since you recovered from the wounds received on
the occasion, have done good service in the wars. These, sir
knight," he added, sarcastically, " are claims a prince like William
never can forget, e'en were his memory shorter than his love."

And you might add," muttered Tyrrel, who began to feel anything
but satisfied at the delay in his promised earldom, " that
through my agency the plans of the besieged have all been known
and frustrated — witness last night's attack. Peter Norbeck is a
useful agent in the fortress of our enemies."

The name of Peter Norbeck seemed to excite the surprise of his
companion, for it was connected with certain passages of his life to
which he had long lost the clue ; it was, therefore, no longer in the
light bantering tone which he had assumed, but in accents of deep
and undisguised interest, that he demanded if he alluded to a Norman
man-at-arms who was formerly in the City guard.

No," resumed the speaker ; " but to his brother, whom the
bastard of Cranfield punished for trying to squeeze a vile Jew's purse
of a few silver pennies. The fellow hates, as such men only hate,
with the ferocity of a bloodhound, as well as its determination. I
have found him a faithful agent, perhaps because the prey we hunted
was the same. The man you inquire after is his brother, now one
of the warders of the City who first detected Ul rick's mission to the
rebels."

Is he with one of the companies who have followed Rus us to
the wars ? " demanded the Black Knight.

There is the very man," exclaimed Tyrrel, pointing to the warder,
who, with several of his companions, was lounging about to watch
the proceedings ; " he is my go-between with his brother."

Without a word of adieu, or thanks for the information, his
questioner, turned upon his heel, and proceeded directly, v/ith his
usual measured tread, towards the spot where the group were
standing. Laying his mailed hand upon the ruffian's shoulder, he
simply pronounced the words, " Follow me," and Avithout waiting
to see if he was obeyed, directed his steps towards the neighbouring

wood, conscious that his authority was such, from his influence
with William, that men even of a much higher rank would reflect
twice ere they ventured to dispute it. The warder followed with
the instinctive obedience of a hound at the call of its master. The
Black Knight was held in a sort of mysterious terror by all, a
feeling to which the ghastly expression of his countenance — now
scarcely human — not a little contributed.

As soon as they reached an open sward, bounded by a running
brook, where the brushwood and grass were too low to give shelter
to an eavesdrooper, the foremost paused, and waited till the man
whom he had so long been anxious to find stood before him face to
face.

Is your name Norbeck ? " he demanded.

It is, sir knight," answered the fellow, respectfully, at the same
time feeling uneasy, although he knew not why, at the strange
conference which he foresaw was about to take place between them,

Formerly of the City guard ? "

And now one of its warders," added the fellow, hoping to
create a favourable impression by the announcement of the responsible
office with which he was intrusted.

To whom," continued his questioner, " sixteen years since, a
male child was intrusted by a noble knight, together with a large
sum of money — the boy to be brought up as your wife's, by a
former marriage ; the gold to be employed for his support and
future establishment in life ? "

The same," faltered the man, his uneasiness and astonishment
increasing at every question.

Doth that boy still live ? "

He does."

And where ? "

Marry, that is more than I can tell," replied the warder ; " 'tis
months since I beheld him. He was always a wayward, stubborn
brat, even as a child ; as he grew up, I had hard lines with him.
The traitor who should have swung this day upon the gibbet can tell
you, perhaps, more of his whereabouts than I can, since he it was
who took him from me. I'd give the heaviest coin in my purse but
to lay hands on him again."

'• Why so ? " demanded the Black Knight, a shade of haughty
displeasure rendering his features still more repulsive than even
their unnatural transformation had made them.

Why so ? " iterated the ruffian ; " why, because is it not natural
I should wish to find the runaway again ? But may I ask, noble
sir, why you feel so interested in his story ? Perhaps he is known
to you ? "

Ask me nothing," sternly replied his questioner ; " but as thou
varies that neck of thine, answer truly ; think not to deceive me,
for I can detect the lie on falsehood's quivering lip — read it in the

shifting glance or hesitating speech. I have dealt too long with men
to be easily deceived, and despise them too much to pardon their
treachery lightly. Tell me," he added, drawing his sword, " how
the boy's fate became mixed up with the knight of Cranfield's ;
and remember that thy first lie will prove thy last — I warn not
twice ! "

Finding that it would be dangerous to prevaricate, and ignorant
whether the knight's motives to the boy were of good or evil, but
trusting to the latter, the warder, without much disguise, described
all that had passed between both Gilbert and himself, even to the
beating and Abounding of the former, and his rescue by Ulrick from
his hands. Had the wretch, when he related the lashing with the
bow-string, caught the flash of the fierce vindictive eyes fixed upon
him, he would have read his doom as plainly as if voice had spoken
it. When he had finished, he stood With a half-doubtful, half-confident
air before his mysterious judge.

And thou hast told me all ? " demanded the Black Knight.

"All," said the ruffian, anxiously; "I trust, noble sir, that you
are satisfied."

"■ I were difficult to please an I were not satisfied," answered his
questioner, sarcastically ; " thou hast proved thyself a faithful
guardian — a most kind one. Thou lightest have slain the boy,
and yet thou only gayest the lash ; as men correct a hound at fault,
a restive steed, or base-born serf. There," he added, bitterly,
taking a handful of coin from the pouch suspended at his girdle ;
there is the first proof how much I am satisfied with thee ; anon,
thou shalt have another more lasting than the present : I am one
who always pays his debts."

As the speaker poured the money into the warder's greedy palm,
he dropped, apparently by accident, several of the pieces upon the
ground ; in stooping to pick them up, the head of the fellow was
bent to the earth, leaving an opening about two inches wide
between his helmet and rough coat of mail, which left the back
part of his neck totally defenceless. Before his fingers could grasp
the first coin, the long heavy blade of the Black Knight's sword
descended with the rapidity of a flash of lightning upon the mark,
and the head of the ruffian rolled at the feet of his executioner.

Carrion ! " exclaimed the assassin ; " if, indeed, he merited the
hame of such ; the headsman should have dealt with thee, and nota
noble's sword ; thou art but too honoured to fall by hands like
mine."

Spurning the gory head, whose eyeballs were still rolling in their
sockets, contemptuously from him, she was about to quit the spot,
when he observed a packet of papers in the belt of the being whose
crimes he had so fearfully punished : to secure and read them was
the work of a few minutes. Surprise and indignation were visible
Qn hw countenance as he did so.

Fratricide as well as usurper," he murmured, " this crime, at
least, shall be prevented ; if I cannot recall the past, at least I will
endeavour to atone it."

With these words the unhappy man directed his steps towards
the scene of meeting.

At a preconceived signal, the royal brothers, each attended by six
nobles totally unarmed, set out for the place of rendezvous ; the
men-at-arms, city in number, who escorted them, halted by agreement
at a hundred paces on either side of the tent. In the train of
William were Lanfranc, the primate ; Roger of Shrewsbury,
Aubrey de Vere, and three barons of less note. With Robert came
the Earl of Norwich, Edda the Saxon, William de Warrennene, and
three Norman vavasor, who still remained firm to his cause.
The party of Robert were the first to enter the tent ; the prince
preceded his friends a few paces, leaning on the arm of Mirvan,
with whom he was engaged in deep conversation.

Had my son proved worthy of his name," s lid the unhappy
prince, " my hand should have withered ere I set my seal to such a
treaty ; as it is, with me the secret dies, since I alone possess the
proofs of his legitimacy and birth,"

Had not the speaker's attention been occupied by the sudden
blast of the trumpet which announced the arrival of William, they
must have heard the rustling between the inner lining and outward
canvas of the tent, occasioned by the retreating steps of one who
had overheard the prince's confidence. It was the traitor Tjvrel.

He comes," said Robert, advancing to the altar erected in the
centre of the pavilion ; " one struggle, and 'tis past."

At this moment William Rufus and his party entered. The
heavy draperies of the pavilion were let down, and the two
monarchs and their councillors were shut from the gar^^e of the
men-at-arms without. Prince Henry had declined being present at
the interview : either he doubted the Red King's faith, or he
disapproved of the sacrifice which his brother Robert was about to
make. Cunning beyond his years, he veiled beneath an appearance
of lighthearted reckless humour schemes of ambition which the
prophecy — for such he considered it — of the Saxon monk at Eltham
had engraved too deeply on his heart ever to be effaced. Whilst
the conference was taking place, he remained with the escort at a
distance, laughing and chatting with the officers who commanded it.

There they go," he exclaimed, as the parties entered the tent ;
the vulture and falcon are at roost together. We shall soon have
no better sport than to hunt the red deer in the forest, gentles ;
that is, if our kind brother of the red poll leaves us the liberty todo
so."

If your grace has a doubt upon the subject," observed the young
noble to whom the observation was addressed, " I should advise the
air of Normandy — there, at least, you may hunt in security."

STANPIELD HALL.

Perhaps ! " said a deep voice near them. The speakers turned
and beheld the Black Knight, whose person they had become too
familiar with dining the late struggle not to recognise. With his
usual quiet step he had approached them almost unperceived.

Back, sir knight ! " exclaimed the prince. " Know you not it is
forbidden by the terms of the truce for either party of the escort to
approach the other ? "

I belong not to the escort," replied the intruder ; " my errand
is to place this packet in the hands of Henry of Normandy." The
knight held out the papers he had taken from the belt of the warder
as he spoke, and disappeared almost as suddenly as he had presented
himself.

The prince perused the letters so mysteriously conveyed to him,
and although they contained nothing less than matters touching his
life, not a frown or gesture of surprise betrayed the deep emotion
which the perusal of them occasioned. Trained early to the wiles
and intrigues of courts, he was perfectly master of himself, and
while he read the hearts of others, guarded the secrets of his own
like a sealed book.

To those who knew the fiery, impatient character of Robert, it
was a matter of surprise that he discussed the proposed articles of
the treaty with his brother so calmly ; by it he accepted his father's
will, and gave up all claim to the crown o£ England, contenting
himself with his hereditary duchy of Normandy. The only points
on which he was inflexible was the safety of Ulrick, and the
personal security both of life and lands of his adherents. On these
no arguments could move him, and William, who saw that the
primate and the nobles of his party not only coincided in the
reasonableness of the terms, but were prepared to support his
brother in insisting on them, was forced, though with an ill grace,
to yield. Lanfranc drew up the treaty, to which the rival princes
and barons set their names and seals, both brothers swearing on the
altar to observe it.

Stay," said Robert, as William, with a cold sarcastic smile upon
his face, was about to quit the altar, " thou hast sworn on the
Evangile — swear also by the oath of our race to keep good faith
with me. Thou knowest the tradition of our house — thou knowest
the fearful curse which hangs o'er him who breaks it."

What I have sworn I have sworn ! " exclaimed William, turning
pale ; for, superstitious as he was cruel, he knew that the required
oath would deprive him of his cherished scheme of vengeance.
Why doubt my faith, or tax it further ? "

Why ? " iterated Robert ; " because I know that oaths are like
water with thee. Didst thou not swear to our mother at the abbey
of Caen never to prejudice thy elder brother's right .? The crown
thou hast obtained by perjury best can answer how thou hast
observed thy oath. Didst thou not swear to prove a lovirj^ brother

to her youngest Henry, and hast thou not sought his life ? Thy
oath on the Evangile ! " he added ; "as soon would I trust the
inconstant wind or fickle waves as such an oath from thee. Speak,
lords, have I not reason ? "

You have," replied the primate and peers, who began to feel
regret at the part they had taken, and were anxious to make the
treaty a lasting one between the princes — a step to which their
interests impelled them, for most held possessions in Normandy as
well as England, possessions which, in all probability, they would
lose should war again break out between the brothers.

Still the Norman hesitated, for vengeance was almost as dear to
him as ambition ; vainly he gazed upon those who had placed him
on the throne for encouragement in his refusal ; cold, stern glances
met him on every face, and he felt that delay might prove
dangerous even to his crown and life.

Swear ! " exclaimed the united nobles, unanimously, several of
his own party advancing towards Robert.

Be it so," muttered the tyrant, furiously ; " propose the oath."

By the bones of Rollo," said his brother, impressively, " you
swear never to attempt aught against the life, liberty, and honour of
Ulrick of Cranfield — to restore him instantly to freedom — in return
for the unreserved surrender of my crown — and to hold all who
have supported my rights scatheless in honours, lives, and lands."

I swear it," repeated William, faintly, " by the bones of
Rollo."

And may the curse of jour race," added his brother — " of him
men call the Devil's Son, whose couch of fire not all the prayers of
Holy Church or blood of Heaven's blest martyrs e'er can quench, be
yours if e'er you break your oath ! "

All present shuddered as Rufus repeated the fearful imprecation ;
for not one but firmly believed that the soul of the common
ancestor of the two princes was to remain, according to his compact
with Satan, in hell till one of his descendants, by breaking the
oath of his race, should release it.

Now, then," said Robert," " take the crown, and may it prov
to thee of thorns. Care and suspicion haunt thy pillow — poison
the wine-cup in thy hour of mirth — pall e'en the kiss of beauty on
thy lip ! Reign in terror — haunted by shadows — heartless, friendless,
and alone ! "

William, despite the natural hardihood of his nature, shrank at
the well-merited malediction of a brother whom he had so
treacherously supplanted in his birthright, and left the tent with
his train in gloomy silence ; leaving Robert to await the arrival of
the rescued prisoner, according to the terms of the treaty to be
immediately set at liberty, i^s the monarch left the pavilion,
Tyrrel, impatient to impart the important secret he had so basely
obtained, arrested his steps, and demanded a moment's audience ;

his look and bearing indicated that it was for a communication too
pressing to be refused.

"Prince," said Edda, addressing the now crownless king, who
still remained standing by the altar where Rus us had pronounced
the fearful oath, " the joy I feel at the certitude of again embracing
my grandson will hardly repay the sorrow which I experience at
this most generous sacrifice, fatal alike for thee and for my country ;
history will chronicle the heroic deed long after the icy hand of
Death hath effaced its record from the hearts of those who witnessed
it."

It has been greater, old man, than thou worst of," said Robert,
kindly ; " but let it pass : all of my i-ace are not alike ungrateful.
In my path through life I have sown affections and gathered tares ;
love hath been blighted, honours lost, ambition crushed ; e'en in
that corner of my heart," he added, bitterly, " where I had garnered
up a hope for age, the mildew of treachery and deceit hath found
me."

All were impressed with the deep melancholy of the speaker's
voice, and listened in respectful silence.

About half an hour after "William's departure the curtains of the
pavilion were once more raised. Edda and Mirvan advanced to
meet their liberated friend ; but found, to their surprise, that,
instead of Ulrick, it was the primate, with Roger of Shrewsbury and
Tyrrel, who entered the tent.

Where is the Lord of Cranfield ? " demanded Robert impatiently.

"A prisoner," replied Tyrrel, with an air of triumph and
malicious satisfaction.

By whose orders ? "

The king's."

What ! " exclaimed the indignant prince, " hath William already
broken the oath of his race ? This baseness is unworthy even of
him. And you," he added, addressing Lanfranc, "priest of the
Most High, primate of England, witness of this perjury, you
announce it to me ! Shame ! oh ! shame."

"The king," said the churchman haughtily, "hath broken no
oath ; he took it but conditionally."

Conditionally ! " repeated all the nobles present.

That his brother," resumed the speaker, " made an unreserved
surrender of the crown. Hath he done so ? — can he do so ? "

Why not ? " demanded the prince, with a look of surprise.

Because thou hast a son, to whom thy rights devolve — if rights
thou hast," replied Tyrrel impatiently. " Deny it not ; I heard
the avowal from thine own lips almost within the hour."

Robert turned deadly pale ; it was clear to all that his very heart
was torn with rage, with contempt, with deep and bitter emotions.
Fixing his eyes upon the speaker with so singular an expression
that even the bold traitor was awed by it, he murmured :

And thou hardest this ? "

I did."

Where ? "

Behind the curtains of the tent. More," added Tyrrel, "that
thou alone possessed the proofs of thy son's legitimacy and birth."

Dishonoured villain ! " exclaimed the prince, with a burst of
passion. "First perjury to thy benefactor, who confided his
prisoner to thy ward, and now dishonour to thy knighthood by
meanly descending to be a spy. But I waste words," he added,
using a violent effort to recover himself ; " I'll speak with thee anon.
First for the archbishop — what would our perjured brother 1 "

"That," said Lanfranc, "which alone can render the oath of
William binding, and enable you to fulfil your stipulations in the
treaty of the unreserved surrender of the crown — the proofs of
your son's birth."

What if I refuse .? " said Robert.

"Your minion dies ! " answered Tyrrel, with a look of exultation
" hangs on the gibbet, from which, by a trick, you would have
rescued him — hangs like a dog, unless his master saves him."

It was sad to see the look of loathing and disgust with which the
prince turned from him to address the primate.

And what proof have I," he said, "if I consent to leave my son
Avithout a name, to sacrifice his , birthright to my brother's fears by
the surrender of these proofs, that your monarch will keep faith
with me ? "

William's fearful oath," replied the prelate, " which then
becomes a surety, and mine ; for by my priestly vow I swear," and
the speaker kissed his golden cross as he spoke, " if he keep not
faith with thee, this voice, which proclaimed him king, shall
launch the thunders of the Church upon his head — this hand,
which anointed him, shall sign his deposition. Robert of
Normandy," he added, " may trust the faith of one who never broke
his vow to God, to friend, or enemy."

As friend or enemy I trust thee," said the prince, drawing at
the same time a parchment, with the seals of his mother, the Queen
Matilda, the Archbishop of Rouen, and Onfroy, Marshal of
Normandy, from his breast. " Take the proofs ; from this hour
forth I am a childless man ; the retribution is complete."

The hand of the archbishop trembled as he received the
important document. Devoted as he was to the interests of the
Red King, he could not behold without emotion the sacrifice —
accomplished, as it were, against nature — wrung by treachery from
a generous, noble heart.

Let it console thee, prince," he said, " that this deed has secured
a nation's peace and a true friend's safety. Within the instant
Ulrick of Cranfield shall be free. Farewell ! Would we had
earlier met, or been for ever strangers ! "

Motioning to Tyrrel to remain, the primate quitted the pavilion
to bear Rufus the proofs he was so impatient to obtain.

No sooner had Lanfranc departed than Robert recovered his
usual self-possession and serenity. Without deigning to cast a
glance either of reproach or hate upon the man who had so
unscrupulously betrayed him, he began to give directions for his
approaching departure for Normandy, where Mirvan, whose chief
possessions lay there, as well as those of his young bride, proposed
to accompany him.

I cannot," he exclaimed, " bow the knee and profess lip loyalty
to a sovereign I despise. My heart would wither in its own deceit.
Let William," he added, " confiscate my English fief — my father's
lands and father's honours shall content me."

"Which shall not be lessened by our favour," said his prince,
embracing him. " Normandy hath forests as wide as any England
boasts, to chase the red deer in, and hearts as true to welcome
thee."

Old as I am, I, too, would with thee, prince," added Edda,
were I not planted to the soil like some aged oak. Uproot me,
and those who live beneath my shade must perish too."

Again the curtains of the tent were raised, and this time his
impatient friends were not doomed to disappointment, for the lord
of Cranfield entered at liberty. His first impulse was to bend the
knee to Robert, whose generous sacrifice had deeply touched his
grateful nature ; the prince welcomed him with a sad, but friendly
smile, wishing internally, as he gazed upon him, that Heaven *had
blessed him with a son like TJlrick. Tyrrel looked upon the scene
with an affectation of scorn and triumph.

Robert, my sovereign," said our hero, " what hast thou done to
preserve my worthless life ? — widowed this wretched kingdom of
its happiness, bartered thy birthright, sacrificed thy son, all — all forme?"


Bartered them freely," interrupted Robert, " since I have
preserved my friend, rewarded virtue in its noblest form, and
punished vice and measureless ambition. Ere I depart," he added,
from the realm no longer mine, I have a debt to pay. Leave us,
my lords ; leave Ulrick and myself with Walter Tyrrel alone within
the tent ; anon we will rejoin you on the road to Pevensey."

The command was instantly obeyed, the prince and the two young
men alone remained within the tent. Tyrrel's first impulse was to
lay his hand upon his sword, for although the speaker and the
knight of Cranfield were both unarmed, his suspicious nature forebode
treachery.

Touch not thy sword, young man," exclaimed Robert, mournfully.
It is not with such weapons I would punish thee. By Heaven,
my sister's honour, or my father's bones, are not more sacred to me
than thy life."

Punish me ? " faltered Tyrrel, lost in amazement at the prince's
tone and manner.

Ay, with words which shall pierce deeper than my sword I
fall like a coal of fire upon thy head ! gnaw like a serpent's fang
within thy heart ! — if indeed," added the speaker, contemptuously,
"reptiles have hearts."

Rail on, prince ! " exclaimed Tyrrel, with an affected laugh ;
I can forgive a baffled gamester's spleen ; my promised earldom
shall console me for a few sharp words."

Can it console thee for a crown ? " sternly demanded Robert.

The young man started from the pillar of the tent, against which
he had been carelessly leaning ; a light from heaven or hell broke
on his astonished mind ; for the first time he suspected that which,
if true, would indeed, to a soul like his, be the most fearful
punishment his treachery and ambition could receive ! Twice he
essayed to speak, but the voice remained choked within his throat.

"A crown ! " at last he hoarsely murmured.

"Ay, a crown!" repeated the prince; "ambition's dream;
fortune's last gift to reckless, daring minds. — Ulrick," he said,
passionately, "I have been a man of pride and sin, but still of
unstained honour. I gloried in the blazon of my house, the power
of my race, the fame of my forefathers, their hundred victories by
land and sea ; judge, then, how deep the pang which rends this
heart when I proclaim that man of infamy and shame — that thing
I loathe and spit upon — my son, the legitimate heir of my proud
name, the inheritor by birthright of Normandy and England."

The guilty man crushed as by the voice of a denouncing angel,
sank overwhelmed upon his knees ; deeply as TJlrick despised,
he could not gaze upon his humiliation without pity.

Fool ! " continued the excited father, with yet greater vehemence,
"go bend the knee to him who should have been thy subject — for
whose hollow promise thou hast lost a throne ; go cringe and fawn
to beg the earldom bought with a crown, and beg for it in vain.
Tread, a thing scorned and abhorred, upon the soil which should
have called thee master ; die as thou hast lived, without a name,
self-disinherited ! "

Not without a name," faltered Tyrrel, rising from his knee ;
thy son can never lack a name."

And who will give it thee when I disown thee ? — the kind
uncle," added Robert, with a sneer, " whose abject tool thou hast
become, and into whose hands, like an obedient hound, thou didst
resign the only proof of thy high lineage ? Never more shall the
secret pass these lips ; — fool ! I but tell it thee to be thy punishment."

Is thy justice so implacable ? " replied the wretched man ;
does no sentiment of nature speak within thee at least to acknowledge
me thy son ? "

My son a landless beggar ? — never, never."

T 2

Normandy is still within thy gift," urged Tyrrel, for so we must
continue to designate him.

But never shall be thine ! " interrupted his father, sternly.
Set but a foot in it, and I will place thee in a cage where thou
shalt fret against the bars in vain. Reptile ! thou art completely
crushed. Hint but to William of thy birth, his jealousy will doom
thee dead. By thine own arts is every hope defeated. The only
witness of thy birth, the venerable guardian of thy youth, is dead —
slain, I too justly fear, hj thy unnatural hand."

Then I am lost ! " murmured the conscience-stricken culprit ina
low voice to himself.

Lost and accursed ! " added his justly-incensed parent, " both
here and hereafter ! Instead of the fond heritage of a father's love,
receive his malediction ! I curse thee in the name of the long-cherished
hopes and affection thou hast blighted ! May no child
e'er live to honour thee — no voice of love or duty smooth thy dying
pillow ! May the shadow of" the greatness thou hast lost haunt
thee like an avenging spirit — the secret of thy birth fester like a
serpent's fang in thy vile, treacherous, proud, ambitious heart !
May the death-hope which whispers peace to the repentant sinner's
soul fail thee in thy last hour of need ! May thy grave remain
unhonoured by a human tear — shunned as a spot accursed by every
foot ! False knight and perjured friend, degenerate son and most
unnatural traitor, farewell for ever ! "

The wretched man, crushed by the fearful weight of a father's
malediction, so terribly pronounced, rushed from the tent as if
fiends pursued him — the avenging words echoing in his ears as he
fled. More like a spectre than a human being, he passed the
guards and officers who surrounded William's tent, and, dashing
aside the silken curtains, entered the inclosure. It was fortunate,
perhaps, for the monarch that he vas absent. All th3,t Tyrrel
found there were the ashes and half-melted seals of the fatal
parchment, the proof of Ms high birth. The sight still further
increased his fury, and, foaming like a maniac with impotent rage
and shame, he hastily left the spot.

The broken-hearted Robert remained, after the departure of the
son whom he had so fearfully cursed and justly disowned, a prey
to terrible excitement. In the midst of a life of reckless dissipation,
he had long counted on the moment when the Conqueror's death
VN'ould have enabled him to acknowledge him ; for, though not of
royal birth, his mother had been noble. It was some time ere
Ulrick could bring his chafed spirit to something like composure ;
but all his entreaties to induce him to recall his malediction were in
vain.

Never ! never ! " he impatiently replied, dashing, at the same
time, as if ashamed of human weakness, a tear from his burning
cheek. " Words wrung from a heart bruised like mine can never

be recalled. 'Tis past for ever' ; the last hope of my life is gone,
and nothing now remains but a few years of madness, folly, the
wine-cup, and the revel — the battle-field, or pilgrim's staff — an
heirless name, and childless sepulchre."

He may repent, and yet atone the past," urged our hero,
willing to calm him further, by giving utterance to a hope he was
far from entertaining ; for none knew so well as he how radically
bad was the nature, how engrafted the vices, of the being for whom
he pleaded. His words, however, produced an effect the very
opposite of his intent ; the more he pleaded, the more obstinate the
outraged prince became ; and he finally extorted from Ulrick, before
they left the tent, a solemn vow never to reveal the secret of what
had passed, or the mystery of Tyrrel's birth, save at his express
command. The oath was reluctantly taken, but faithfully kept.
They afterwards rejoined their friends, and returned to Pevensey.

As the train crossed the drawbridge Prince Henry encountered
the warder's brother, Peter Norbeck, who, by an affectation of
blunt humour and open speech, had gradually wormed himself into
his favour ; indeed, so much so, that, from a simple man-at-arms,
he had promoted him to a post amongst his personal attendants ;
little dreaming that, in so doing, he was but walking blindly into
the net which his enemies had spread.

Ah, good Peter ! " exclaimed the young prince as soon as he
beheld him ; " I have employment for thee. Send Bras de Fer,
the executioner, to my chamber ; I would speak with him."

With Bras de Fer ! " echoed Norbeck, turning pale ; for
conscience whispered that it might be for himself the services of
that hated functionary were about to be required.

With Bras de Fer," repeated Henry with a loud laugh, slapping
him at the same time familiarly on the shoulder. " Why, how the
fellow stares ! Go you before, and fix me a noose in the carved
oaken beam in the great hall. And see that the cord be strong ;
for," added the speaker in a tone of confidence which might have
deceived a more suspicious nature than Peter's, " within an hour a
greater weight of treachery and crime than thy honest nature can
suppose must swing there."

Fear not, your grace," replied the ruffian, perfectly reassured
by the prince's manner on his own account ; " the cord shall be
strong enough to hang the fattest monk in merry England, whereas
men say, the holy crows are fattest."

Had the speaker seen the cold, satirical smile which Henry sent
after him as he departed on his errand, he would have gone less
cheerfully on his way.

Within the hour the prince, attended by a dozen men-at-arms and
the executioner, entered the hall, where Peter Norbeck, mounted
on the summit of a ladder, had already strung the fatal cord.
Bras de Fer eyed the preparations critically, and nodded approval.

I think it will do, your grace," exclaimed Peter, admiring his
own skill.

I trust it will," replied the prince sarcastically ; " but Bras de
Fer had better try it."

The functionary, who had previously received his instructions,
began to ascend the ladder, as if to try the strength of the cord,
according to Henry's orders. Peter, to make way for him,
mounted still higher, and thereby facilitated the purpose of the
hangman.

Perhaps I had better have descended ? " he observed.

Not at all necessary," replied his companion, with a smile of
quiet humour ; for he seemed to enjoy the joke exceedingly ;
indeed, I could not very well do without you."

You will find it firm," said Peter, catching at the rope and
placing it in the hands of Bras de Fer, who assured him it would
answer the purpose extremely Avell. " How do you make the
knot ? "

That is a secret. Most men are bunglers at the knot ; but, as
you are not a likely man to betray confidence," continued the
hangman, " I don't mind showing you. You perceive, on turning
the rope twice thus, you allow the noose to run, but not to slip ;
once formed, you pass it round the neck of your subject thus."

Suiting the action to the words, the speaker quickly placed the
fatal cord around the throat of Peter Norbeck, who sat listening
with unsuspicious gravity, deeply interested in his explanations.

What next ? " he demanded.

Why, the next thing we do," replied Bras de Fer, " is, perhaps,
the most delicate touch of our craft — the most difficult point of all.
Passing our arms thus, we pinion our man, and, springing with
him from the ladder, launch our handiwork into eternity."

The executioner, who had gradually got his victim in the
requisite position, sprang with him from the ladder as he spoke.
Sliding down the convulsed body of the criminal, he dropped to
the ground, leaving Peter Norbeck swinging in the air, much to
the amusement of the men-at-arms, who had watched the whole
proceeding as an excellent jest.

Cast the carrion into the moat," said Henry, as he quitted the
hall when the death-struggle was over. " Such be the fate of
every cowardly assassin — the doom of every traitor."

The letters which the-black Knight had placed within his hand
proved that the wretched Norbeck had undertaken, for a bribe of
two hundred marks, to poison him that very evening at the
banquet.

CHAPTER XVIII.

Farewell to England ! " exclaimed Robert of Normandy, as
lie entered the bark at Rye destined to bear him from the land
whose crown he had so singularly lost, " I leave thee with regret,
for thou hast been the scene of many a gallant hope, of many a
daring deed. Farewell, my friends," he added ; " should England
grow distasteful to you, remember that while Robert hath a home
in Normandy, he hath a heart to share it with you. Give no fresh
cause of umbrage to him who is now your king, and you are safe.
William's fears will prove sufficient safeguard. He may break his
vow to God, his brother, and his people, but never will he dare to
violate the fearful oath of his unhappy, fated race."

TJlrick was the last whom the exiled prince embraced, exclaiming
as he did so :

Adieu, thou noble heart I How different had been my fate
had pitying Heaven but blest me with a son as true, as worthy of
my love, as thou art ! Living or dead, in exile or on a throne,
Robert will rest thy debtor."

Odo of Bayeux and Prince Henry, who accompanied their
nephew and brother to his duchy, embraced in turn their
companions in arms, who, according to the stipulations, were
immediately to separate, each at the head of the remnant of his
followers, to return to his respective home. Edda, our hero, and
Mirvan were still at the head of a considerable number of vassals —
the imposing appearance which they presented, together with the
safe-conduct of William, prevented their being attacked by any of
the disbanded soldiery who roamed the country, plundering the
weak and frequently exacting ransom from the strong.

On a bier, in the centre of their march, was borne the body of
the venerable Herbert de Lozenga, so foully slain by an assassin's
hand, arrayed in his episcopal robes, his face calm as a sleeping
prophet's. The body of the murdered prelate was preceded by
twelve priests from the neighbouring monasteries, who sang at
intervals the Litany of the Dead. TJlrick followed it bareheaded
and unarmed. The kind old man had been to him as a father, and
he mourned him like a son. In his pious gratitude, he had had the
corpse embalmed, and intended to entomb it in the magnificent
cathedral his munificence had built. There, in the centre of the
choir, before the high altar, may still be seen the resting-place of
the Chancellor of William the Conqueror and first Bishop of Norwich,
Herbert de Lozenga ; all his predecessors, as well as himself upto
the year 1094, having borne the title of Bishop of Thetford only.

On the arrival of the funeral train in the city, both people and
clergy came forth in crowds to meet it ; all united to pay the
last act of homage to their pastor, whose benevolence had been
unbounded, as his life had been holy and useful. Even his successor,

Eborard, the worthless prior of the Dominicans, whom William,
much to the discontent of the primate, had named to the vacant see,
joined in the procession. Such is the homage which triumphant
vice is sometimes bound to pay to virtue.

Those only who have felt the pangs of separation from the being
whom they love — the agony of doubt, of hope, and fear, which
imagination causes in the anxious heart — can picture the meeting
between Ulrick and his bride, who now gave visible promise of
becoming a mother, and forging by the holy claims of maternity a
yet more indissoluble tie around her husband's heart. Edith too —
the once more happy Edith — embraced her son, her Edward's
living image, and in the gladness of the present hour forgot the
tears and trials of the past. Amongst the first to welcome him was
Gilbert, the poor boy whom he had left wounded behind him in
his flight from London, under the hospitable care of the rich Jew,
Falk of Cologne. Four months' absence had so improved his appearance
that his benefactor could scarcely recognise him ; his
anxious, terrified look had given place to one of modest confidence ;
his attenuated cheeks glowed with recovered health ; his step had
become elastic, and kis spirits light. Still, in the midst of his joy —
and it was almost childish — at again meeting with the first being
who had ever shown pity or interest in his welfare a cloud of
doubt obscured his open brow ; something remained to be told
which he feared might change his protector's smiles to frov-v^ns.

Welcome, my faithful boy ! " exclaimed Ulrick, raising him
from his knee. " Beshrew me, but I should often have borne a
lighter heart had I but known thou wert well housed at Cranfield.
How didst thou find thy route hither — did the Jew direct thee ? "

Not the Jew," faltered Gilbert, " but his daughter Hester, who
tended me, watched over my sick-couch, ministered like an angel
to my sufferings. 0, my lord ! if indeed the sight of your poor
Gilbert gives you pleasure, it is to her care alone you owe it, for
my heart was all but broken when you returned no more."

Indeed ! " replied our hero, smiling at what he deemed the
boy's grateful enthusiasm ; " it seems the pretty infidel made good
use of her time, and traced her image on thy young heart while
within her power."

Pardon me, my lord," said Gilbert, blushing, " but Hester is,
or rather soon will be, a Christian."

Indeed ! " answered Ulrick, thoughtfully. " Of this we must
speak further ; meanwhile, welcome, dear boy, to Cranfield."

It needed all the influence both of his mother and Matilda to
restrain our hero's anger when they informed him that the
beautiful Jewess Hester had not only left her father's roof with
Gilbert, but was actually at that very moment an inmate of the
Hall. His first impression was that the wounded youth had availed
himself of her father's hospitality to seduce her from the paths of

innocence ; still there was something so childish in his look, so
frank in his nature, that his mother's words easily induced him to
discard it.

" You wrong them," said Edith, calmly ; " if they love, it is as
angels love — earthly passion hath not yet left its stain on their
unsullied hearts. The maid is truly Christian ; truth from the
lips of a poor sick boy hath reached her soul, and Heaven, which
smiles not always on the churchman's happily or scholar's page,
hath worked its 'will through him. See her, Ulrick," she added ;
question her ere you decide to scare the young-fledged soul upon
Redemption's threshold back from its place of rest ; see her, and be
convinced."

Matilda, seeing the impression which his mother's words had
produced upon her husband, without waiting for his reply, raised
the silver call to her lips — the signal agreed upon for Hester to
enter. It was impossible not to be struck with the beauty and
childish grace of her manners as she did so. Bending the knee,
before he was aware of her intent, she raised his hand to her lips
and kissed it. Such was the homage which in her father's house
she had been accustomed to pay to the elders and chief men of her
people.

They tell me, Hester," said Ulrick, raising her kindly as he
spoke, " that thou hast left thy father's house to become a Christian
is this thing so ? "

"It is," replied the maiden, modestly" ; else had I not abandoned
my father in his age, or the sisters of my blood."

And what hath wrought this change ? Why wouldst thou
leave the faith of thy father and thy nation ? "

Because I found it," said Hester, speaking in the phraseology
of the East, which, from her childhood, she had been accustomed
to, " as barren as the sea of my own distant land, whose waters
never yet were ruffled by the sea-bird's wing ; because I found in
it observances without devotion, a body without a soul."

"And what hast thou found in Christianity?" demanded our hero,
struck with the impressive earnestness of her manner and peculiar
expression of thought.

Love," replied the Jewess, with a modest blush ; " love, with
which creation teems ; love, which at every step proclaims the
work of an Almighty Hand ; love, which makes suffering joy, and
persecution peace ; love, which is God, since God alone is perfect
love. Not all the Temple's awful pomp," she added ; " the name,
at which nations trembled as they read, graved on the high priest's
mitred brow — speak the Divinity like those plain words, ' Love one
another."

And Gilbert taught thee thus much of Christian faith ? "

Taught me," said Hester, " and taught me not ; I felt as if I
but remembered it like some forgotten air which memory hath

treasured in its cell. The note-key struck, and all the gushing
melody returned."

Hast thou no other love ? " asked Ulrick.

For my father and my sisters, yes," replied the maiden, her
eyes suffused with tears at the recollection that her absence had
clouded the joy of their once happy home.

And none for Gilbert ? "

For Gilbert ? " repeated the maiden, with a look of innocent,
childish surprise, so pure that our hero almost blushed to have
asked the question. " Oh, yes, I love him as I love all things of
God ; I love him as our great father loved the dove which brought
the branch of peace ; love him as the faithful friend who guided
my footsteps here ; as a brother," she added, gravely — for the first
time, perhaps, comprehending the drift of the question. " Hester
will never love him less or more."

Would that the venerable Herbert lived ! " exclaimed Ulrick ;
his pure soul would best direct and understand thee ; mine is
unequal to the task. Remain, Hester, with the kindred spirits of
my wife and mother : they will instruct and love thee. Soon as
thou art prepared, the Church's rites shall welcome her stray dove
back to its longing bosom."

Peaceful that night was the slumber of the Jewess ; the last
cloud, as she imagined, between her and happiness had disappeared ;
she dreamt not of the trials by which Heaven would test her
fortitude ere it crowned her triumph by making her its own.

Early the following morning, Ulrick encountered Gilbert on the
ramparts ; the poor youth, scarcely aware of the nature of his
feelings towards the beautiful being whose destiny had become so
strangely mixed with his, was listening beneath her window to the
hymn into which her morning prayer broke forth :

I have seen the Lord's might in the fair evening star —
In the bright worlds of light He hath scattered afar ;
Not more wond^ol^s are these as a proof of His power,
Than the insect whose home is the bright-tinted flower.

I have heard the Lord's voice in the thunder's loud sound,
When the lightning's red flash scattered terror around ;
But His dread will is spoken as plain as in these,
When borne on the delicate voice of the breeze.

Oh ! there is not a thing that hath being or life.
From the emmet's small form, to the ocean's wild strife ;
Not a leaf on the shrub, or a sweet-scented flower.
But are emblems alike of His goodness and power.

I have seen the fierce waves by the tempest's breath thrown—

Man left on the billow to struggle alone —

And felt that each creature was safe in His hand

On the mad foaming sea, as when cradled on land."

Rash boy ! " said our hero, pityingly ; " thou art drinking of
the draught that will but increase thy thirst. Tell me, dreamer,"

he added, " what I can do best to show my gratitude for thy past
service."

Gratitude ! " echoed Gilbert. " Ah ! now you jest, my lord.
What debt can you owe to the wretched being whom your bounty
rescued from a slavery worse than death ? Besides, what more can
I desire than to remain near you — to watch and tend you — live for
your use — die in your service ? "

'* Dreams, boy, dreams ! " replied Ulrick, who saw that Gilbert's
was a character which mingling in the world alone could form, and
which, permitted to vegetate in peaceful solitude, would lose even
the little energy it possessed. " The purposes of a life may not be
wasted for a caprice like this ; fortune hath many roads to
greatness, and the courageous heart cannot fail to find one."

I am without ambition," sighed the youth.

A cloister, then, perchance, would suit thee better ? "

Gilbert started ; for a monastic life was the very last of which he
had been dreaming. His kind protector feared that his love for
the fair Jewess would prove hopeless. Hers was one of those
pure, visionary natures which seldom descend to earthly love, but
exhale themselves away in the retirement of the convent or the cell
of the desert ; and he was anxious to plunge him into the active
realities of life, in order to make him forget its dreams — too often
the most difficult and painful task for youth.

A cloister ! " echoed Gilbert ; " never ! never ! My heart was
never framed for solitude. Do not send me from you," he added ;
all my hopes and affections are garnered here. It would break
my heart to part with them."

This is madness, folly, boy," answered Ulrick.

I must be the physician of thy mind as well as the protector of
thy fortunes. In three days I will give thee letters to Robert
Duke of Normandy ; for my sake he will cherish thee 'neath his
wing. There thou mayst achieve a name a soul like Hester's maybe
proud to love. At the present hour her heart is wedded to her
faith alone ; it knows no other rival."

In three days ? " sighed the youth.

In three days," repeated our hero, turning away, unable to
resist the pleading look which Gilbert directed towards him.

In three days," repeated the boy, as he plunged into the
neighbouring wood, " I shall again be desolate. Fool, to think
that earth produced one flower of happiness for a wretch like me !
Ungenerous Ulrick ! " he added, at the same time throwing himself
upon a low bank under one of those great oaks beneath which,
perchance, the soldiers of Caesar had often halted, or the Druid
celebrated his mysterious rites ; " blessed himself in all that love
can yield, little he rocks of the poor peasant youth, whose gratitude
is perchance a burden to him. Why send me from him ? What
need have I to seek a name ? "

"Thou hast a proud one, boy — as proud as his whom thon
names thy protector," exclaimed a deep voice near him. " But
thou must prove thyself worthy of it ere thou dearest to claim it."

Gilbert started from his seat ; absorbed in his sorrow, he had
not marked, when he threw himself upon the bank, that a stranger,
dressed in a pilgrim's russet garb, his cowl drawn over his features,
was already seated beneath the shadow of the gnarled tree.

What knowest thou of my name or me, father ? " demanded
the astonished youth.

More than thou knovv^est of thyself," replied the stranger ;
for that past, which is to thee a volume sealed, my eyes can read."

The page would be a sad one," said Gilbert carelessly ; for he
deemed the pilgrim sporting with him.

It may be a glad one soon,"

Father," said the young man, " 'tis plain thou knowest but
little of me or my fortunes : thy science hath deceived thee. My
birth is humble as thy russet gown ; my name ignoble ; my life
hath hitherto been wretched — useless. Sport with me no more ;
I am too sad for jesting."

And I too pressed for time," replied the stranger, v/hom our
readers have no doubt already suspected to be no other than Robert
of Artois. " Answer me this : dost thou ' not bear a red cross
deeply printed on thy breast — near to thy heart ? "

I do," exclaimed Gilbert, feeling, for the first time, deeply
interested in the pilgrim's question. "From infancy I have
observed the mark ; and once, when I asked my father how it came
there, he answered me with blows, and bade me keep my peace."

"Vile slave!" muttered the stranger; "but his debt is paid.
Tell me, boy, did no secret loathing of thy heart — no impulse
whisper thee — the warder was not thy father ? "

I knew," said the young man, " he was but my step-father."

Thy step-father ! " repeated the pilgrim contemptuously. " He
never saw thy mother ; her proud heart would have spurned him
like a cur, had such a being raised his eyes e'en to the dust she
trod on."

Maud, then, was not my parent ! " exclaimed Gilbert, " Thank
Heaven for that ! Stranger, thou hast removed a weight from this
bruised heart. The heavy blow, the taunting speech, the bitter
gibe, were doubly bitter when I reflected 'twas a mother dealt them.
But tell, in mercy tell me, who were my parents ? Live they yet ? "

Thy mother sleeps the sleep of all ; thy father lives, though
men believe him dead. A fate as strange as cruel, and merciless as
just, obliges him to walk the earth like some unburied shadow :
but fear not thou ; his crime leaves no dishonour on his name ;
thou yet mayst proudly bear it. It shall go hard but the hope lost
to himself he will achieve for thee."
His name ! his name ! "

Merit it, boy, and thou shalt learn it," replied the pilgrim ;
for the present hour, farewell. Let what has passed remain a
secret, locked in thy breast like the first impulse of thy boyish
love. Thou knowest the ruin called the Druid's Cell ? Should
danger threaten or misfortune reach thee, seek me there ; for, poor
and abject as the world may deem me, I may not lack the means to
save or serve thee."

Ere Gilbert could recover his astonishment the speaker disappeared
within the wood, leaving the bewildered youth in doubt
whether what he had heard was real or but the vision of some
waking dream.

Bitterly didtthe poor monks and clergy regret the loss of their
venerable superior, Herbert de Lozenga, whose rule had been of
love. His successor's, the unworthy Eborard, proved of iron ; for,
conscious that he was regarded with dislike, if not contempt, he
avenged himself by the annoyance with Which petty tyranny
torments the spirits it cannot subdue. Short as had been his reign,
the chapter had already appealed against his vexations, harsh
encroachments on their privileges, to the primate, whose power
alone could stand between them and the haughty bishop. Reckless
as Eborard was, he trembled at the name of Lanfranc, whose
indignation at his appointment had been openly expressed, and
whose authority, for a canonical fault, could even yet depose him,
despite the protection and favour of the king. He had just heard
from one of his creatures of the proceedings of the monks, and was
pacing his chamber in rage and vexation, when an attendant entered
to inform him that a stranger, meanly clad, desired admittance to
his presence.

I have no humour to listen to strangers or intruders ! "
exclaimed the impatient prelate ; " I am pestered enough with the
stiflE-necked brotherhood, whose spirit I must either bend or break.
Send him to the prior or the almoner ; and to teach thee, brother,
discretion for the future, I forbid thee for the rest of the week to
appear in refectory during the evening meal."

But the stranger, reverend father," urged the dismayed lay
brother, " has letters of importance, as he says. I told him how
difficult you were of access, but he would take no denial ; he said
they were from the king."

The king ! Imbecile, admit him instantly ! And for thy
want of sense," added Eborard, '• in detaining this messenger from
the king, add to thy penance a midnight vigil to our Lady ; pray to
her to teach thee common sense, and grant me patience to bear
with thee." ,, , ^

Now, fellow," said Eborard, as Falk of Cologne humbly bent
before him, " what is thy will with us ? Have we misunderstood
thy message ? Dost thou indeed bring letters from the king ? Or
was it but a ruse to gain admittance to our presence ? "

Bowing low, the aged Israelite, who seemed worn with grief as
well as travel, presented a slip of parchment, sealed with the royal
signet. In it the monarch recommended the bearer to the bishop,
urging him to obtain for him, by every means, possession of his
daughter, deluded from her home by the esquire of the lord of
Cranfield.

"He must be rich," thought the prelate to himself, "to have
obtained such a missive from the Red King."

How can I serve thee ? " demanded the bishop, after having
carefully perused the letter.

By restoring to me my child," replied the Jew. " Thou art a
judge as well as high-priest of thy people. Thy laws forbid all
intercourse between the children of our nation. Hester hath been
deluded from me by a wounded snake, which in my pity I had
sheltered. A shame hath fallen upon Israel ; desolation is upon
may hearth — sorrow on my grey hairs, for the child of my age hath
dishonoured them."

Thickest thou," demanded Eborard, eager, in his hatred, to
involve Ulrick in the censures of the Church, " that this boy — this
esquire — is but the cloak for some more artful villain .' That his
master, the lord of Cranfield "

Never saw my child," interrupted Falk ; " at least not till she
had abandoned the home of her fathers. In my desolation I will
utter no injustice, lest the Lord of Israel confound me in His
wrath. Till this serpent Gilbert poured his venom in her ear,
Nazarene never gazed upon her face. I had garnered her like my
life's pearl, in secret. My care was for her, my toil for her, my
prayer for her. Perchance," he added, bitterly, " I had made an
idol in my heart, and the God of my fathers hath punished me for
my wickedness."

Why seek, then, to regain her ? " said the churchman, coldly.

Because she is my child," answered the Jew ; " and merciless
as the Christian's law hath been to us — persecuted, reviled,
outraged, and degraded as we have been — the iron finger of
oppression hath not effaced all trace of humanity from my breast.
Because when the last trumpet shall sound, and the scattered race
of Israel shall assemble in the valley of Jehoshaphat before
the judgment-seat of the Most High, I would exclaim, ' Thanks,
Lord, the children which thou gayest are all with Thee ! ' "

Should she turn Christian ? "

"Horror ! " shrieked the Hebrew ; "rather would I behold her
dead than turned unto the strange God of the Christian. Pardon
me ! " he exclaimed, as he marked the haughty frown on the
bishop's brow ; " I know it is a great thing I demand — an unheard-of
thing — for a Jew to exercise his natural right over his rebellious
child, for an Israelite to find justice against a Christian ; but if I
am poor in prayers," he added, " I am rich in that the Church

prizes more than the empty triumph of an infant convert. I am
rich in gold. Name what ransom, sum, mulct, or offering — call it
what you will — you please ; were it the last shekel of my house,
I'd count it freely — restore me but my child."

The passionate grief with which Falk pronounced these last
words made little impression upon the obdurate heart to which
they were addressed : but his offers of gold were more favourably
received ; for Eborard was one of those in whom the yellow idol
Mammon had long replaced the purer image of the Deity ; his
dreams were of gold ; his very prayers, if the ignoble aspirations
of such a thing of clay merit the name, were all of gold. Bells
had found in him a ready worshipper, for his statue was of gold.
One rival passion, whose existence he dreamt not of, lay dormant
in his heart ; its sleep had been profound, its waking was destined
to be fearful.

Thou speaks truly, Jew," said the bishop, after a pause, in
which he had mentally calculated how much he could wring out
of him ; " it is a great thing which thou demanded ; still, as the
Church is merciful, and the king befriends thee, I may perchance
stand the' stead in this ; but thine alms for such a favour "

Shall content e'en thee," said Falk, eagerly ; " I am no niggard
to cheapen when 'tis my flesh and blood I would redeem ; name
the sum at which I may secure the Church's silence, and thy
powerful aid."

What thickest thou of a thousand marks of gold ? " demanded
Eborard.

'Tis a large sum, but yet it shall be paid," answered Falk —
paid were it the last coin I possess. Place but my child once
more beneath my care, and the gold," he added, with a sigh, " is
yours."

Think not, Jew," said the churchman, " that I consent to this
for mine own gain. Thy gold is for the poor. Penance and
prayer must atone my share in this, if indeed the maid be truly
Christian."

I know ! I know ! " impatiently interrupted the old man,
fearful lest the prelate should demand an extra sum as a solace for
his conscience ; which, however, he shrewdly valued at its true
price. " Fear not that the Israelite misjudges thy condescension.
When wilt thou secure the wretched girl ? "

This very day our precept shall be issued forth," said Eborard ;
and the gold "

"Be counted to thee," replied Falk, "when Hester is restored
unto her father. Farewell, my lord. To-morrow the poor Hebrew
will once more kiss the dust before thy sacred presence."

With these words the dignitary and the despised Jew parted —
the former to issue his mandate for the arrest of Hester, the latter
to seek a lodging with one of his nation in the city.

That same evening Ulrick was seated in the oratory of his
mother, listening to Matilda, who was instructing the young and
beautiful neophyte in the creed of her new faith. There was
something so pure, so innocent, so free from every taint of earth, in
the character and enthusiastic devotion of the maiden, that her
protectress began to regard her almost with a sister's love. Added
to which, the pious work in which she was occupied was, according
to the spirit of the age, so meritorious in the eyes of the Church,
that it assured paradise to those who successfully completed it.

"But why," urged Matilda to Hester's wish of retiring to a
convent as soon as she had been received into the Church, " why
quit the world ? It hath duties as sacred as the cloister.
Besides," she added with a smile, " poor Gilbert's love merits some
pity."

A blush suffused the cheek of the fair Jewess, and she was about
to reply to her, when the subject of their conversation rushed into
the oratory, exclaiming :

Save her, my lord ! They come to drag the victim forth to
sacrifice ; they would tear her alike from heaven and you ; the
soldiers of the Church demand their prey."

Ere Ulrick could reply, the curtain which screened the entrance
to the oratory was drawn aside, and a tall, ferocious-looking monk,
followed by an officer who bore the new bishop's arms embroidered
on his vest, and a party of men-at-arms, unceremoniously entered
the apartment. Indignant at the sight, Gilbert half-drew his
sword, and in his enthusiasm blood would have doubtless been shed,
had not the hand of our hero restrained him. Matilda, offended at
the intrusion, and alarmed for the safety of her protegee, half
encircled her with her arm, and regarded the men with an
inquiring but disdainful glance. The priest read from the
parchment which he held in his hand a citation for Hester to
appear before the bishop and the ecclesiastical court, to answer to
the charge of having fled with a Christian ; a crime," added the
fellow, " abhorrent both to God and man, and punished by the
Church with death."

As soon as he had concluded, the civil officer advanced to arrest
her.

'• My dream — my dream ! " exclaimed the Jewess, fixing her
beautiful e3"es on high, and every feature glowing with the most
exalted enthusiasm, as if already she beheld the martyr's crown.
The wolf hath broke the fold ; the tiger hath tracked the fawn.
The words of my Vision are realised — ' If thou wouldst indeed be
Christian, learn to suffer, for to suffer is to love.' I am ready ;
whither must I go ? "

To prison ! " replied the officer, moved, despite himself, at the
sight of so much beauty and courage ; although, in the fulfilment
of his office, he advanced to secure her person as he spoke.

Back ! " said Ulrick, sternly ; " is Cranfield Hold a brigand's
den, that thus your master violates the laws of courtesy, and seizes
on my guest ? The maid is Christian."

Let her prove it," replied the priest ; " but till she does she is
our prisoner."

Ulrick regarded him with a smile of cold contempt. Terrible as
was the power of the Church, he knew that it had its limits ;
but had it been ten times more despotic, he would have blushed to
have resigned an innocent, unoffending being at its summons,
who had no friend save himself.

I will be warrant for the maid's appearance," answered our
hero ; " till then Cranfield is her home, and I am her protector."

What if we resist ? " demanded the monk.

My vassals shall scourge ye to the boundaries of my lands.
Hence ! " he added ; " pollute my home no longer ; lest I forget
your office in its errand, and crush ye like vipers 'neath my feet !
Gilbert, haste to the seneschal ; call out the guard, and bid them
hurl these intruders into the moat, if, in three minutes, Cranfield
is not clear of them."

Scarcely had the command escaped his lips than the youth had
quitted the apartment.

Beware, sir knight ! " exclaimed the monk, as he retreated ;
the Church's arm is iron — it will crush thee."

"Better be crushed by it than live its slave," said Ulrick.
Away ! and tempt not my patience further ! "

Not for me ! " exclaimed Hester — " not for me this coil !
What were my worthless life to one moment's danger unto thee
or thine ? Besides," she added, "the fate my vision told must be
fulfilled. Sir officer, I am your prisoner, and will follow you."

Never," interrupted Matilda, " will I resign you to the charge
of that ferocious man. If danger threatens, courage must meet it ;
if persecution comes, patience must bear it ; if death awaits us,
innocence shall welcome it."

At this moment the seneschal and men, conducted by Gilbert,
entered the oratory ; a ad the baffled messengers of priestly
tyranny, venting curses, withdrew, to inform their employer of the
failure of their mission.

Early on the following morning, as Eborard was considering
how best to accomplish his designs, and secure not only the person
of the Jewess, but inc Ive Ulrick in the censure of the Church, he
was informed that a female demanded to see him. Finding, on
inquiry, that she was young and beautiful, he gave orders to admit
her — for, churchman though he was, he was not insensible to the
charms of a red lip )r flashing eye. Much to his annoyance, the
prior, whose cold, S' lately manner towards him not all his courtesy
and blandishments could change, entered his apartment at the
same moment as his visitor.

U 2

Welcome reverend brother ! Benedicite, fair daughter ! " he
exclaimed, addressing each of them. " We will but hear the worthy-prior's
pleasure, and attend your will."

Hear it now, my lord ! " exclaimed the female, bending her
knee, and at the same time throwing back her veil, which discovered
features of such uncommon loveliness, that Eborard felt the warm
blood rushing to his heart with most priestly violence. " I am
your prisoner — the Jewess, Hester, whom you seek."

The prior devoutly crossed himself ; for, although a kind, he was
a superstitious man. His superior remained gazing upon her with
flushed brow and trembling pulse. For the first time' in his life he
felt subjugated by the influence of beauty. Often as it had crossed
his path before, it had never touched his heart.

Is it possible ? Art thou," he demanded, " the Jewess ^Vhom
the lord of Stantield insolently refused to our behest ? 'Tis well
he hath thought better of it ere om wrath had crushed him."

The knight of Cranfield sheltered me not as a Jewess, but as a
Christian, reverend father."

Now, praised be our Lady ! " exclaimed the prior, with a
benevolent smile ; " the lost sheep of Zion returned to the fold,
and a soul is won. Thou art a Christian, maiden ? "
In all but name," replied Hester, modestly.
And hath Ulrick," demanded the prior, in a tone of disappointment,
" sent thee here to plead thy cause alone ? "

He knows not of my coming," said the maiden. " Visions had
warned me ' of approaching danger. Could I behold my kind
protector suffer through his zeal for me ? That were indeed to prove
myself unworthy of the name I bear in heart."

Remove her," said the prelate to the attendant lay brothers,
who appeared upon his summons.

Where ? " demanded the prior. " To the convent of St.
Mary ? "

No," replied the bishop, sternly, "to he palace prison."
Despite the prior's intercession, the maiden was conducted to the
prison ; and the good man, whose interference had been haughtily
rebuked by his superior, with a thoughtful mien returned to his cell
within the cloister.

Gilbert remembered the advice which the recluse had given him,
to seek him in the hour of danger or advert city : and on the arrest
of Hester, he sought him in his retreat, and summoned him, withall
the energy of despair, to fulfil his promis

Follow ! " exclaimed the unknown, moved to compassion at the
distress of the only being who still possessed a claim upon his
affections ; " it is not exactly the destiny I would choose for thee,
but since Heaven hath willed it so, I will not vainly seek to thwart
its purpose."

An hour's walk brought them to the palace-gate of the haughty

Eborard, where, despite their entreaties, threats, and despair, they
were refused admittance by the prelate's guard, who advised them
to apply to the almoner, or to come on the following Friday, which
was dole-day. As they were returning, disheartened, fortunately
they encountered the worthy prior, who listened with pity to
Gilbert's tale, and felt his interest in the fate of the fair Jewess
augmented by the artless story of her conversion.

Hast thou courage, boy," he demanded, " to ride to London,
and demand an audience of the primate ? "

To death," said Gilbert, eagerly, " in such a cause."

'Tis well," resumed the churchman. " I will give thee a letter
which will secure thee an audience of Lanfranc. Tell thy tale
with the honest simplicity thou hast told it me, and doubt not the
result."

"And I," replied the recluse, " will arm him with a weapon to
depose and crush this mitred tyrant, whose sacerdos is a
blasphemy — whose religion hypocrisy."

The good prior's letter was speedily written ; and that very day
Gilbert, bearing a packet from his mysterious friend as well as the
priest's missive, started for London.

CHAPTER XIX.

In his anxiety to ascertain the fate of his protege, Ulrick had
several times presented himself at the palace of the new bishop to
solicit an audience, but without success ; the haughty churchman
refused to see him, and he returned on each occasion to the
inquiring Matilda the bearer of afresh disappointment and disquietude.
Short as had been Hester's residence at Cranfield, she
had acquired not only the love of its generous owners, but the
esteem and admiration of all its inmates. Her youth and beauty,
no less than fervent piety and unfeigned humility, had won her
friends. The poor whom she had solaced, the wounded she had
tended, were all unanimous in their pi-aise of her gentleness and
patience ; and many openly declared that, should the haughty
prelate seek to wrong her, crowns should be broken and swords
drawn in her defence. Meanwhile the recluse, as the Black
Knight was now called, did not remain idle.

If the conduct of Eborard appeared inexplicable to the friends of
the Jewess, it was still more so to the brethren of the convent and
his own immediate household. Since he beheld his prisoner, his
character seemed entirely changed ; he no longer occupied himself
in tormenting his clergy, or inventing fresh means of curtailing
their privileges. Even his schemes of ambition for awhile were
laid at rest ; letters remained unanswered ; decrees, long meditated,
postponed ; and his revenues unsuited. In the solemn offices of

the Church, the episcopal throne was frequently vacant, and the
hours which should have been devoted to the services of his God
were passed, to the astonishment of all, in visits to his prisoner,
whose chamber was guarded by several of his minions whom he
had brought with him from his priory, and on whose unscrupulous
fidelity he could rely. The inmates of the convent were debarred
all access to her.

The younger monks observed, too, with significant smiles, the
attention which he paid to the adornment of his person ; gems of
price, contrary to the canons of the Church, glittered on his fingers,
and his hair and beard were perfumed. His table, to the great
scandal of the prior, was served with the choicest wines, and he
indulged in the excitement of the cup more like some reckless
soldier than the sober inmate of the cloister.

The truth was, Eborard loved — if indeed the impious sentiment
which could make him forget his vow to God and priestly rank
merits the name — madly, wildly loved.

Ardent piety alone can reconcile men to the cloister, or the
deepest sentiment of religion wed them to the priesthood. Eborard's
union with the Church had been one of interest and ambition
only. It is not, therefore, to be wondered at that the cold barriers
which prudence and calculating hypocrisy, had raised melted like
wax before the breath of human passion.

Love in the virtuous, well-governed heart is a pure, gentle
stream, fertilising and refreshing all that it embraces ; in the
unholy breast it is a torrent, whose pathway is destruction and
desolation.

It was on the fifth morning after the departure of Gilbert for
London that Falk of Cologne, after much entreaty, succeeded in
obtaining an audience of the bishop, whose intentions, although far
from guessing the truth, he began vaguely to suspect. The prelate
received him with his usual haughty indifference ; indeed, he
would have scarcely deigned to dissemble with the Jew, but for
the letter which he had been the bearer of from the king. To his
demand for his daughter, he replied that, great as was his inclination
to serve him, he could not forget the duty he owed to his high
station and the laws of the Church ; but that in a few days, after
he had again consulted the chapter on the subject, he might
perhaps be enabled to restore her to him.

Perhaps ! " iterated the Jew, eying him keenly, for he was no
stranger to the character which Eborard bore ; " there was no
perhaps' when first we spoke ; then all was clear and well defined.
Have I," continued the agitated father, " but withdrawn my child
from one peril to expose her to the worst extreme of fate ? Nay,
bend not, priest," he added, *' thy haughty brows on me. While
Rus us has need of gold, I bear a charmed life beyond thy malice
to assail. Give me my daughter, or I will appeal unto the primate.

Little as he loves our persecuted race, he loves still less the priest
who holds his vows as feathers in the balance of his evil passions."

With difficulty the prelate restrained the scornful defiance which
rose upon his lips, but prudence bade him dissemble ; he more
than half-suspected that complaints sufficiently serious had already
been made to the stern Lanfranc against him, and he trembled at
the idea of an additional charge ; for, as legate of the Pope as Apelles
Archbishop of Canterbury, the zealous primate was in all
matters of ecclesiastical discipline his all but irresponsible judge ;
besides which, he knew him already to be prepossessed against
him.

I pardon thee, rash man," he answered, trying to assume the
tone of injured innocence, " thy vile, injurious suspicion ; it proves
how little thou knowest of Holy Church, or its much-slandered
ministers. In thy headlong passion appeal unto the primate. I
am prepared to meet the charge, and surrender him my prisoner.
For me, perchance, it were the safest step, for my brethren already
wonder at the clemency I have shown to a daughter of thy
unbelieving race ; but, remember, once in his power, not e'en the
king's authority can tear her from it ; and if his justice dooms her
to the stake, blame thyself, not me."

The stake ! " shrieked Falk, his cheek blanching at the word.
No, no — impossible ! Though priests, ye are men. Ye cannot
have forgotten the mothers who bore yon, the sisters who shared
your love — all is not stone in your cold, selfish hearts. The stake !
and for a child ! " he added. " It is too horrible even for Christian
cruelty."

She hath fled, and with a Christian," said the prelate, coldly ;
♦ " such is the Church's law."

Accursed be that law ! " exclaimed the Hebrew, still more and
more excited ; " for 'tis of Moloch's creed. Devils alone could
frame it ; no men, save those who have renounced the ties of nature,
be found to execute it."

This in our presence, Jew ? Thou blasphemies."

Hear me," continued the aged Israelite : " I know the keystone
to your hearts ; 'tis gold — the yellow idol at whose shrine
your souls are daily sacrificed. Yield me my daughter back
unstained, unharmed, and I will sate your avaricious thirst, though
I count down the last shekel of my wealth, and wander forth the
beggar of my tribe."

It cannot be," answered Eborard, his impious passion struggling
against his cupidity ; "all I dare do I will — unseemly haste would
compromise myself — in a few days perchance."

A few days ! " interrupted Falk, sternly ; "and what in a few
days will my daughter be to me ? A degraded thing ; abject as
violence and brutal lust can make her. Deny it not — the lie would
blister on thy lip ; a father's fears can pierce the shallow veil of

thy deceit. Man," he added throwing himself upon, his knees, "if
our creeds be different, our natures are the same ; our loves and
hates, impulses, hopes, and fears, all spring from the same source.
Beggar me, and I will bless thee ; restore to me the child of my
age, and at the judgment-seat of the Most High the Jew will not
accuse thee."

Thou hast my answer ; lay it to thy reason, not thy passion.
In five days thy daughter shall be free, and Heaven pardon thee
thy unjust suspicions."

Enough," said the suppliant, with an unnatural calmness ; " I'll
trust its justice further than thy mercy. Farewell, sir priest ; thou
hast yet to learn that if the Hebrew be slow to strike, his aim is
but the surer."

Without further reverence or word the speaker quitted the
apartment.

There is some spell upon me," exclaimed the guilty man, as
soon as he was alone — " a spell which drags me to perdition. It is
no longer the cool blood which circles in my veins, but the
volcano's burning lava. The image of this girl pursues me at the
altar, in my dreams ; my prayers a'.e of her, my thoughts of her,
my being is of her. Vainly I fly from restless vigils to a more
restless couch. Fever is in my she ^p, and mocking kisses sear my
eager lips. I will possess her," hd added, " e'en though forfeit
soul should be the purchase of r. moment's bliss."

For a fevv^ moments he continued to pace the rush-strewn floor,
and then, as if struck by a p'^dden thought, raised the silver call to
his lips, and sounded twice. The signal brought Robert of Artois'
former squire, Brantov^e, to his presence. His new master had
already proved his 'def fulness, and hesitated not to trust him.
Beckoning him to the window where he stood, he pointed out to
him the retreating figure of his visitor, who was seen slowly winding
his ^:d,j across St. Martin's Plain, The fellow's eye followed
him with the sagacious look of the bloodhound. Instinctively he
guessed whs- '::z,'a expected from ixirr*.

►^Gi-it ■:T-^ iTtrii man .'"" uGinjitnICi the J^r^^^^e, pointing to the Jew.

5-:ti« "iy ioixi."

Wouldst know him tx^.'*in r ''

From a thousand," said I^rantoil? ; "it is not the first time I
have seen him. For days he has been lingering round the palace,
and twice asked an audience of the prior."

Did he obtain it ? " eagerly inquired Eborard, whom, the intelligence
confirmed in his fearful purpose.

No, my lord ; I took upon myself to drive him forth."

And thou didst well," observed his master, with a smile ; " but
he had done better who had silenced his slanderous tongue forever.
Thou wert speaking to me lately," he added, " of the lands
of Narrow — part of the fief of thy late master."



True," eagerly interrupted Brantone.

Come to me in two days," slowly continued Eborard, with a
look of peculiar nearing ; " and we will speak yet f hither on the
subject. I am not one of those ungrateful masters who forget
faithful service. Am I understood ? "

"Perfectly," replied the esquire, with a look of intelligence.
"As for yon infidel, rest satisfied, my lord, in this world he shall
cross your path no more."

I seek not to understand thy meaning," said the churchman ;
for he was a hypocrite even with the instruments of his crimes ;
'tis true he bath menaced me — outraged my honour by his vile
suspicions — threatened to denounce me," he added, bitterly, "to
the primate ; but, as a Christian, I forgive him. Do thou the same.
Farewell."

Umph ! " muttered Brantone, as he retired from his master's
presence ; " such forgiveness is like that of the Bishop of Beauvais
to the thief who stole his cup ; he pardoned him the robbery, but
burnt him for the sacrilege. Heaven keep me from such pardons
as churchmen give ! "

The crime indeed is fearful ! " exclaimed the prior, who, with
an agitated step, was pacing the cloisters of the cathedral, accompanied
by a venerable ecclesiastic, one of the members of the
chapter, and our old acquaintance the recluse, during the Jevv^ and
the esquire's interview with his superior. " Heard Christian men
ever of such wickedness ? It is enough to make the very saints
tremble in their shrines, and his pious predecessor rise from his
tomb to shame him ; unholy love in an anointed bishop of the
Church ! — a sin indeed hath fallen on our house."

"Why not at once arrest him ? " demanded the youngest of his
companions ; " the evidence is clear."

Because," said the dignitary, " he is canonically our superior,
and we are bound by oath to obey him in all lawful things. The
primate only is his judge ; without him we can do nothing. "Would
to our Lady he were coral ! "

Should he in his madness offer violence to the innocent object
of his lust ? " observed the aged monk.

Fear not that," replied the recluse ; " I am bound by no vow
of obedience : should he attempt it, I would rush from the place
of concealment where I so long have watched, and strangle him
with as little remorse as I would crush a serpent beneath my
foot."

Both the prior and his companion crossed themselves in horror
at the idea of such a necessity.

"Such a deed fits not a Christian man," said the former;
remember that, however unworthy, he is still a priest, and that
no layman's hand may touch him. But, hush," he added, as
Brantone entered the cloisters ; " there goes the bloodhound whose

fearful errand we have overheard. Heaven forfend that the life of
the wretched Jew should fall a prey to his vile master's treachery ! "

Deep as is my cause of hatred to the accursed race, I will at
least preserve the old Jew," whispered the disfigured man, " and
baulk yon villain's purpose. The lord of Cranfield owes him a debt
of gratitude, for the Jew once preserved his life."

Have you the means of communicating with him .? " demanded
the prior.

I have."

« Is he still within the city ? "

In the city and on the watch," replied the recluse ; " he is not
one of those to sit contented by the ingle-side whilst danger
threatens a hair of those he loves. We may trust the Jew's safety
with confidence to him."

The letter was written and despatched. That very night Bran-tone
was an inmate of the deepest dungeon of Cranfield Hold ; his
schemes of villainy for a while were baffled.

In the morning of the day previous to which Falk, according to
Eborard's promise, was to receive his daughter, two Carmelite friars
arrived at the convent, and demanded hospitality for the night — a
request which the prior, to whom such matters were generally referred,
instantly accorded. There was nothing in the manner of
their reception to convey the idea that the strangers were other
than they seemed ; yet all the brotherhood appeared to feel that a
deeply observant eye was upon them. The stately demeanour of
the elder chilled as well as awed them. The service of the day
was performed with more than usual attention on the part of all ;
and when at night the prior, in the absence of the bishop,
gave the usual benediction, the monks retired to their cells with a
vague impression that some event of moment threatened their
h-ouse. The elder ones, who were members of the chapter, were
seen about an hour afterwards, when all was silent in the cloisters,
to glide singly with stealthy tread and thoughtful brow into the
apartment of the prior.

That very night the worthless prelate had resolved to accomplish
his design. The fever of his blood, excited by the wine-cup had
mauijted to his brain, and in the gratification of his unholy passion
he was prepared to violate alike the laws of God and man — the
sanctity of his order, and the innocence he should have guarded.

The great bell of the cathedral tolled the hour of midnight as he
rose from the table where he had been carousing in solitary sin,
and directed his steps towards the tower where his prisoner was
confined.

The chamber of Hester was a long-disused oratory, of an
.octagonal form, each side containing an arch quaintly carved in
stone. In the one opposite to the door an altar formerly stood, but
the steps which led to it, together with the crucifix, carved in the

wall itself , remained ; the former having, perhaps, been too
cumbrous to be removed. To the left of the entrance was a strongly
grated window, which by day alone gave light to the apartment.
The arch facing it had formerly conducted to another recess, in
which most probably a similar window had been situated ; but it
was now blocked by a solid screen of coarse oak panel-work, on
which some faint attempts at ornament had carelessly been traced.
A lamp, suspended from the ceiling by an iron chain, shed a feeble
light upon the kneeling person of the fair Jewess, whose pale cheek
and sunken eye showed the mental torture to which she had been
subjected by her impious persecutor. But if the maiden's eye was
hollow, its brightness was not dimmed. In her enthusiastic nature
she regarded the trials to which she was exposed as sent to test her
faith, for which she would have sacrificed her innocent blood with
joy, and like the Christian virgins in the first ages of the Church,
have hailed the martyr's crown as the proudest boon which Heaven
could bestow.

Still, despite her courage, and the confidence which she felt in
her delivery, even though it should prove by death, from the
loathsome offers of her persecutor, the human portion of her nature
trembled as the door of her prison opened, and the excited Eborard,
still under the influence of wine, entered the apartment. Having
first secured the door, he placed his torch upon the ground, and fora
few moments surveyed his victim in silence. It was a picture
angels might have wept to witness : a priest of the Most High
meditating sin, and purity unarmed, except by prayer. The priest
was the first to break the silence.

Maiden," he murmured, in a voice thick with emotion, " th
hour has arrived which decides the fate of both of us. Why didst
thou cross my path ? Till I beheld thee my dreams were but of
ambition — my days of calm content, I have appealed to reason,,
and reason fleet from me ; religion mocks my prayer. Grant me
thy love, and all that wealth can purchase, hope desire, or man
achieve, are thine,"

"All ? " replied the Jewess scornfully ; "all save Heaven."

We will make earth our heaven," replied Eborard. " Our
paradise shall rival Eden's bowers — its fierce delights fall with
reviving freshness on thy heart, truer than the dull, placid dream
which angels dream. Hast thou no pity in shy nature ? Can a
form so framed for love enshrine a heart of stone ? Name but the
price at which I may attain thee, I'll ransack earth to find it. This
heart, so cold to all, hath now become love's glowing temple, and
thou the idol of its shrines Thou art my life — my destiny ! I live
but in thy smile. Be merciful,"

B9 merciful unto thyself ," replied Hester, " and cast this hateful
passion like a leprous garment from thee. What have I done, that
thou shouldst strive to scare my unfledged soul from its salvation ?-

Why seek to change the light of my young days to darkness so
prot'oijiid no after ray of hope can pierce it ? Thou art a teacher
of thy people, a shepherd of thy fold ; lead not the steps of innocence
astray ; act not like the fell wolf unto thy charge. God," she added
let not this man's wickedness shake my new-born faith ! let not
e'en his triumph make me doubt Thee ! Save me from him, and
him from his weak self ! "

"Thou prayer in vain," said the apostate with increasing
resolution ; " not Heaven itself can save thee ! I tell thee, maid,
thou Vv'ert created mine, ages before this world was fi-named — twin
stars, loving in heaven, and at last, in time's fulness, born on
earth in form of frail humanity. With restless love I've sought
the sacred partner of my soul. Beauty's light hath beamed athwart
my path, but never touched my heart ; music's voice wanted
thy breath to give it melody. I cannot live but in thy ]presence.
Thou wert not, sure, created to destroy me, or, if thou wert," he
added v/ith increased excitement, at the same time seizing her by
the arm, and attempting to enfold her in his accursed embrace, " the
same bolt shall crush us both ; but ere it falls thou shalt be mine ! "

Release me ! " shrieked the trembling girl, vainly attempting
to free herself from his passionate hold. " I am but a child ; think
on thy priestly vow ! . . . Hath Heaven no aid ? or are its
thunders silent ? "

This is coyness," whispered Eborard ; " soon v/ilt thou laugh at
these old prejudices, and thank love's teacher for the gentle violence
which woos thee to thy happiness. These struggles," he added,
tearing aside the veil which shrouded her virgin form, " do but
accelerate my triumph."

The wretched girl strove with almost superhuman strength
against the attempts of the apostate priest, whose excitement
increased with every convulsion of her graceful form. Placing his
hand upon her waist, he endeavoured to pollute her lips with his
detested kiss. Horror gave additional force to her frantic efforts ;
and, thrusting him from her, she sprang upon the steps beneath
the crucifix. Clasping the sacred emblem as her last refuge,
she exclaimed, in a voice which woke the silent echoes of her
dungeon :

Priest of God ! dearest thou brave thy Master ? "

For a few moments the wretched man was appalled. With the
trustful confidence of an infant clinging to its parent, Hester
embraced the crucifix ; her eyes lit with the enthusiasm of faith — ■
her dishevelled tresses veiling the bosom whose modest covering
the rude hand of her persecutor had torn aside.

Ay, even there," cried Eborard, the dark passions of his evil
nature doubly inflamed by the contest, and disappointed — "even
there will I claim thee. If Heaven hath thunders, let it strike and
save thee."

It hath ! " exclaimed a solemn voice, whose deep tones transfixed
the guilty wretch with terror, as he was about to drag his
victim from her last protection ; " Heaven hath heard, and by its
servant answers thee."

At the same instant the rude oak panelling was drawn aside —
being, in fact, a concealed door, whose existence was known only
to the prior — and Lanfranc, the primate, attended by the members
of the chapter, Ulrick, and Gilbert, all of whom had been concealed
witnesses of the impious scene, entered the apartment. The stern
brow of the prelate was dark with horror and indignation at the
sacrilege he had heard, the profanation which had been attempted.

Saved ! saved ! " said the Jewess, in a voice of enthusiastic
gratitude, as she sank upon her knees. " In Heaven hath been my
trust, and Heaven hath not deserted me."

Lost ! lost ! " murmured Eborard, slowly' recovering from his
surprise, and not daring to meet the primate's indignant gaze ;
the Arm I braved hath struck me down at last."

'In an instant Uric and Gilbert were at the side of Hester, whom
they raised from her ;attitude of thanksgiving. At the sight of her
friends, the energy which had so well sustained her through the
fearful scene gave way, and, drooping her head upon the manly
breast of her protector, she wept as sisters weep upon a brother's
bosom. Meanwhile, four of the monks secured the person of the
apostate superior.

Wretch ! " said Lanfranc, advancing to Eborard, and tearing
the golden chain and cross, the emblems of his episcopal rank,
from his unworthy neck ; " as legate of the Pope, I here degrade
thee ; deprive thee of all authority and jurisdiction in the now
widowed Church ; suspend thee from all priestly functions. Away
with him to prison."

Thou art mine enemy," replied the wretched man, recovering
some portion of his former audacity, " and leagued with these, the
rebel inmates of my convent, to destroy me. I appeal from thee
unto the king."

The prior and monks listened with horror and astonishment to
the accusation, mixed with some uneasiness, for they well knew
his influence with the monarch, whose interference might still
screen his unworthy favourite, and impose him on them ; but they
knew not the character of the primate, who listened to the culprit
unmoved.

And what canst thou urge," demanded Lanfranc, pointing to
Hester, " against the maiden's accusation ? "

That she is an infidel — her oath against a Christian prelate will
not be believed."

What to these witnesses, the members of thy chapter ? "

*' That they are mine enemies, who have rebelled against me,"
answered the unblushing apostate.

*' And to me ? " continued the primate, willing to see how far his
infamy would lead him ; " what canst thou urge against my oath ? "

•' Thy well-known opposition to my consecration — thy insolent
remonstrances with the king," replied the prisoner, hope once more
beginning to dawn within his subtle mind. *' Fallen as thou thickest
me, William will not forget the service I have rendered him. His
powerful hand will find the means, despite thy enmity, to raise me."

Fool ! " said the archbishop, calmly, " thou dost but precipitate
thy doom. Nor king nor prince shall ever judge between us. As
primate, already have I suspended thee from every priestly
function ; as legate, I excommunicate thee ; I cast thee forth from
out the living Church — cancel thy share in its inheritance. Appeal,"
he added, " to thy unworthy master : see if his arm be strong
enough to break the curse of Rome, or cancel the sentence which 1
here pronounce." *

All present listened to the denunciations of the speaker with a
sacred terror, so universal was the dread of excommunication
in that unenlightened age. Men whispered it with fear and
trembling, shrinking from the unhappy wretch on whom it fell, as
from a pestilence whose slightest contact was* pollution — a living
corpse doomed to eternal death.

The guilty Eborard, overwhelmed and crushed by the last act of
the stern justice of Lanfranc, felt that every hope indeed was gone,
and permitted himself to be dragged unresisting away by those
who but an hour since had trembled at his frown.

Approach, poor girl," said the primate, addressing Hester, who
still clung to Ulrick, as to a brother's side ; " nay, fear not, maiden —
all are not wolves who guard the fold. If our voice fee stern in
judgments on the guilty, it is rich in blessings on a soul like thine.
I bless thee ! " added the old man, laying his hand upon her head,
as she knelt, trembling with awe and gratitude, at his feet ; " I bless
thee out of Zion. Angels have watched thy heart to guard its
purity, and blessed martyrs smikd upon thy triumph. The Church
shall receive thee, stray one, to its bosom, e'en as a mother welcomes
her lost child. These hands shall pour the regenerating waters of
baptism upon thine innocent head ; and never shall they be raised
in prayer or benediction, but thou, fair child, shalt be remembered."

The heart of Hester was too full of gratitude to Heaven to permit
her tongue to express her thankfulness ; but the warm tear Which
fell upon the venerable hand which had been extended in blessings
over her spoke to the prelate's heart more eloquently than e'en her
lips had done.

It was morning ere the rescued convert, escorted by Ulrick and
the now happy Gilbert, returned to Cranfield, where Hester was

The unworthy successor of Herbert de Lozenga was really deposed by the
Pope, though not exactly in the manner related.

received both by Edith and Matilda with the expression of the
warmest love. Again and again was the wondrous tale of her
deliverance repeated, and the youth called upon to explain his
share in it. It seems that on perusing the letters of which he was
the bearer, tooth from the prior and the mysterious recluse, the
primate at once proposed to accompany the messenger to Norwich,
to witness with his own eyes the truth of the fearful accusation
placed within his hands. The rest is easily understood. Lanfranc
and Gilbert were the two Carmelite friars who had claimed
hospitality at the convent, and whose arrival had so impressed the
community ; for the simple russet gown could not veil the prelate's
stately form, or dim the lustre of his searching eye. The members
of the chapter alone were entrusted with the secret of his presence ;
and by them the arrangements were planned which led to Eborardis
detection, even in the moment when it seemed least possible to
those who calculate not that the ways of Heaven are unlike the
ways of man.

On applying on the following morning for an interview with
Eborard, Falk was conducted to the presence of the archbishop,
who explained to him that his daughter was no longer a prisoner,
and that in two days he should himself receive her into the bosom
of the Church. The unhappy man, overwhelmed with the intelligence,
to him ten thousand times more terrible than death,
withdrew, like one stunned, from the primate's presence. He saw
too well the stern, sincere character of the speaker to tempt him by
that universal key to the human heart, gold ; for in Lanfranc's
heart it was but dust, when weighed against the triumph of his
church, or the redemption of a human soul.

A Christian ! " muttered the Hebrew to himself, as he directed
his steps across the plain of St. Martin on his way to the city. "The
curse never fell upon my house till now. Our blood hath been
shed like water, but it was the sacrifice of faith ; our gold hath
been wrung from us by torture, oppression, and the rack ; but now
the richest pearl is taken from us — the fairest flower is torn from
Judah's stem. Our name will become a by-word on our nation's
lips — a scorn, a shame to Israel ! Never ! " he added, bitterly. " If
the degenerate girl can thus forget her duty to her kindred and her
father, he will not forget his oath to Israel's God, or that he is a
judge and elder of his people."

Full of this stern resolution, he directed his steps towards the
market-place, where, by the corner of the church, dwelt a dealer in
drugs, one of his own peculiar race. Hassack was known, not only
to the city, but all the country round, for his curious skill in herbs
and simples. Many a greedy heir had sought his aid ; and the
parent whose length of days was a check upon his wild career
slumbered in peace : the unfaithful wife removed the jealous
husband, the perjured lover the victim of his passions. Unscrupulous,

and caring for nought but gold, the amassing of which
formed the onlj^ pleasure of his withered heart, Hassack's skill was
at the disposition of all who could gratify his ruling passion. So
crude were the tests Vv^hich science at that time possessed, that the
detection of poison was almost impossible ; and the poisoner
pursued his guilty trade, suspected, but in safety — too many great
ones whom he had served being bound to interest themselves in
his protection. Just as Falk reached the dingy, wretched-looking
spot where the poisoner retailed his drugs and nostrums, he
encountered the recluse, to whom he had formerly been known,
having in his days of extravagance and pride frequently advanced
him money upon his knightly bond. Fortunately the change
which Abram's vengeance had wrought in him precluded the
possibility of a recognition ; the pale, agitated countenance of the
Jew excited his attention ; and crossing to the old stone pulpit,
near which, in Catholic times, the priests and monks used to
address their hocks, and the proclamations of the city authorities
were made, he hid himself behind one of the heavy pillars, to
watch his proceedings, which an instinctive feeling told him were
dangerous to the life of Hester, and consequently to the happiness
of Gilbert. After half an hour's converse, the old man quitted
the den, the character of whose owner was well known to the
observant spy, who marked the sigh of deep-drawn agony which
broke from the bosom of the wretched father as he passed him. As
soon as he was out of sight, the recluse, in his turn, entered the
house of Hassack. At first the conversation between him and its
master was violent, but the Jew's tone of defiance gradually
subsided to one of deference, and at last to entreaty. For once he

had found his master.

* * # * * '

Lights were blazing on the high altar of Norwich Cathedral, and
the font was decked with earliest flowers of spring, on the morning
of the day which was to receive the fair Hester into the bosom of
the Church, which put forth on the occasion that imposing pomp
which no ritual has ever equalled either in grandeur or sublimity.

Despite the silence which had been observed respecting the
sacrilegious conduct of the unworthy Eborard — and the silence of
the cloister is proverbial — strange rumours, connecting his name
with that of the youthful Jewess, were rife amongst the people —
rumours which the absence of the suspended prelate from the
service at which the primate had twice publicly officiated only
tended to confirm. At an early hour the vast aisles were crowded
by the curious citizens and their buxom wives and daughters.
Many of the latter had heard wonderful descriptions of the
neophyte's beauty, and most of them came, womanlike, to criticise
and to compare. A few, and but a few, came for the nobler purpose
of joining in the hymn of triumph for a soul redeemed from error.

»0„



Amongst the crowd of spectators was an aged man, bent more by
sorrow than by age, whose compressed lips and blanched cheek
gave but faint indications of the fearful struggle passing in his
breast — a struggle which rent his very heartstrings with its anguish,
maddened his reeling brain, and whispered him despair. Disguised
in the loose gown and hood then commonly worn by the superior
class of citizens, the miserable Falk — for it was no other than the
father of the convert — had been one of the first to enter the church,
where the discovery of his presence would probably have caused
his death. He had seen with a bitter smile the decoration of the
font — to him the altar of sacrifice, and remained to await the completion
of the rite which was to sever him for ever, as he thought,
from the child of his age, and bring shame and humiliation upon
his name and race.

The procession at last approached : first came four boys clothed
in long white rochets, tossing the silver censers from side to side,
filling the air with costly perfumes ; then a monk bearing the
primate's cross ; after him the priests and brothers of the community,
headed by the prior holding his staff of office. A shade of
sorrow was on the good man's brow, for he thought on the dishonour
which the Church had received in the crimes of his late
unworthy superior, Lanfranc, adorned with the insignia of his
high office, closed the procession, walking under a canopy borne
by four knights. As the prelate proceeded along the aisles, he
scattered his benedictions on the kneeling crowd, which rose and
sank like an undulating wave as he approached and passed them.
But the principal object of all eyes was the fair convert, who
clothed in white and veiled by drapery, was led by her sponsors,
Ulrick and Matilda, towards the sacred font. Gilbert watched her
approach with the same delight with which an infant might, in the
early ages of creation, ere sin had drawn its curtain between men
and the bright beings of another world, have watched an angel's
steps. His heart was almost too full for breathing, his happiness
far too great for words ; yet a few moments, and Hester, his boyhood's
hope, his earliest dream of love, would become a partaker of
the same faith — the same hope as himself. The recluse, who felt a
deeper interest in the proceedings of the day than any yet suspected,
watched his excited looks, and, for reasons best known unto himself,
determined not to lose sight of him.

The venerable primate had already poured the regenerating
waters, and pronounced the words whose might opens the gates of
the lost inheritance of Adam to his fallen race, when a loud cry
startled the more distant spectators. Hester was seen to sink into
the arms of Matilda and Isabel, who with her husband had graced
the solemnity with their presence. At first they thought that the
young Christian, overcome by her emotions, had fainted ; but the
increased agitation of those around her, and the astonishment of |

X 2 I

the priests, many of whom in their zeal were disposed to cry " A
miracle ! " soon convinced them that something far more singular
had happened. The voice of Matilda at last was heard distinctly
to exclaim, in accents of anguish and terror :

Alas ! she is dying — she is dying ! "

Dying ! " re-echoed the crowd, impatiently pressing nearer to
obtain a view of what was passing.

Dying ! " shrieked Gilbert, thrusting those who stood between
him and Hester aside ; " let me once more behold her, that her
image may be impressed on my young heart — its first and latest
idol."

Despite the resistance of the crowd, the agitated youth broke
through the compact mass, and rushed into the circle which, overwhelmed
with grief and horror, surrounded the apparently dying
Hester. The wreath of flowers and veil had been removed from
her fair brow, and her long dark tresses, damp with the regenerating
stream, contrasted fearfully with her pale cheek ; her
eyes were closed, and large tears hung on their soft silken fringes.
As the innocent child lay with her head pillowed upon Matilda's
gentle breast, she looked like Purity expiring in the arms of
Religion.

'Tis past ! "» exclaimed Lanfranc, signing the cross over the
unconscious girl ; " Heaven has claimed its owt."
'' She is not dead," murmured Gilbert, his voice choked with the
deep agony which consumed hint. " Cold as she was to earthly
passion, she could not leave me without one look for memory to
treasure in its cell — one word, to break at once the heart her gentle
nature was too merciful to crush, and leave to linger in an unpitying
world. Hester," he added, taking her hand, and fixing his
despairing eyes upon her already rigid features, " hear the voice of
my agony, the cry of broken hope. A look, a word, a sign for
the poor boy whose love was like the love which angels feel — ^^on
whose dull path no future ray of happiness may shine."

It seemed as if the sound of his voice had arrested her pure soul
:^r a moment in its flight, or that its guardian spirit, with a human
tear, permitted it one moment to return to grant the boon he asked.
As if waking from a heavy sleep, Hester opened once more her
veiled eyes, and cast on the speaker a glance such as a dying sister
might bestow upon an only brother — a glance where the sorrow of
parting, where piety and love were unstained by human passion or
regret.

As the maid sank hath all the rigidity of death into the arms
which suppoi-ted her, the primate motioned to his attendants to
remove the fanatic Gilbert from the church — an oSice which they
accomplished with firmness, but with kindness, closing the gates to
prevent his return.

The unhappy youth plunged into the wood which L-^.y between

the cathedral and the river. Despair was in his heart, and madness
in his eye ; but there was one who read his purpose — his guardian
genius hovered near him. The recluse, who had followed him from
the church, was hard upon his footsteps.

Another yet more wretched being left the cathedral at the same
instant as Gilbert — the unhappy Falk whose bigotry had, as our
readers have doubtless long ere this suspected, plotted the death of
his daughter at the very moment of her conversion. The claims of
his nation and abandoned faith to vengeance were even to his
morbid mind completely satisfied ; but now a new avenger, the
father, awoke within him — nature spoke with a voice which neither
sophistry, anger, nor superstition could silence. Hester was his
only girl — had been the light of his solitude — the pupil of his
leisure hours ; and he loved her as all men love the thing they teach
—as old men love the children of their age.

The priests had already commenced the Litanies for the Dead,
when the calm voice of Lanfranc, who had recovered his usual
composure, interrupted them.

"Not the prayer of intercession, brothers, but the hymn of
triumph. Heaven hath taken the maiden to itself ere sin or human
passion had time to sully with their breath the seal of redemption
upon her unpolluted brow ; we have seen an angel wing its flight to
heaven, claiming its new-won heritage, and not a sinner trusting
for pardon, part doubtful on its way. Bear her to the church,
strew flowers before her, as for its virgin bride, and raise the song
of joy."

In the enthusiasm of the moment, the young maidens who had
come to witness the ceremony of Hester's admission into the
Christian pale raised the inanimate body in their arms, and bore it
to the high altar, before which a bier had been hastily arranged ;
others strewed flowers, as the primate directed, in their way ; while
the attendant clergy raised the solemn song with which the Church
marks its rejoicing and consecrates its triumphs :

Te Deem Laudanum Te,
Rejoice and raise the grateful strain,
Heaven from earth a soul shall gain,

Scatter the incense round.
Salvation's news to Israel tell,
The Church's note of triumph swell,
And the pealing anthem sound.

Ta Deem Laudamtu Te,
She comes, she comes, ; lost Judah's child,
No more from Thee and Heaven exiled,

We bear before Thy shrine.
'Tis done— life's early threshold past,
The Hebrew maid redeemed at last,
Is sealed for ever thine."

The multitude joined in the strain ; and the service, which was

begun in the baptismal rite, ended with the dirge for the dead. At
a late hour in the evening, at the request of Hester's protector, the
body was removed to Cranfield, to be placed in the ancient vault of
the old chapel, where Ulrick and Matilda were in the habit of
offering up their daily supplications for the repose of their murdered
fathers' souls. After the service they had retired to the oratory, as
usual, indulging in that deep communion which hearts devoted to
each other alone can know, when Gilbert, his eyes excited by hope,
his lips quivering with eager emotion, followed by the recluse,
entered the apartment.

CHAPTER XX.

Ulrick and Matilda were both startled at the appearance of
Gilbert ; the excitement, the wild look of happiness, amounting
almost to insanity, which glistened in his eyes ; his eager words
cut short and broken by the deep emotion under which he laboured
whilst endeavouring to unfold the secret which had caused him
such tumultuous joy, that reason was almost shaken on its seated
throne. Finding it impossible to explain himself, he sank upon
his knee, and caught the hand of Matilda in his, exclaiming as he
did so : " Heaven hath not yet claimed its own ! Lady, she lives !
Our angel lives to gladden earth with virtues all her own — lives to
give sunlight to my path, and waken music once more to my ear."

"Alas ! " said Matilda, in a voice of pity, " he is mad ; grief hath
distraught him. Poor boy ! poor boy ! "

Ulrick inclined to the same opinion as his wife. He looked first
at Gilbert, then at the recluse, whom he recognised, despite his
disguise, as the mysterious Black Knight he had so frequently
seen dining his own imprisonment in the camp of Rufus, and
whose influence with the king he was no stranger to ; indeed, from
the unearthly character of his features, the once handsome Robert
of Artois was now a being whom, having encountered, it was all
but impossible to forget.

He is not mad," replied the intruder, in answer to Ulrick's
inquiring look. " Heaven, to permit me to atone for many crimes,
has enabled me to perform one good act. Hester, the Jewess,
indeed no longer exists ; but Mary, the Christian, sleeper."

Mary was the name the fair convert had received in baptism.

Sleeper ! " repeated Matilda, in a voice which trembled
between hope and incredulity.

Sleeper ! " iterated the recluse. " I wonder not, lady, at thy
incredulity ; but her fate is not more wondrous than my own.
Aware, from cruel experience, how bitter is the hatred, how undying
the vengeance of her race, I have permitted the seeming
triumph of her father's purpose to secure her safety : he and all the

world, except her friends, must deem her dead ; but to them — to
the true hearts that love her — I again repeat, the maiden lives."

Explain this mystery," said Ulrick ; " if thy words be sooth,
more welcome sounds ne'er fell upon mine ear."

You all," resumed the narrator, " know Hassack, the Jew, who
vends his nostrums in the market-place ? "

We do ! " impatiently answered his excited listeners.

Also his fearful skill in poisons and such drugs as minister to
the worst of passions ? "

By reputation well."

And I, perchance, by evil, sad experience. The day previous
to Hester's baptism," continued the recluse, " I encountered her
distracted father ; e'en my seared heart could pity him, for I read
the storm of human passion raging in his heart ; bigotry contending
with paternal love — vengeance with pity — the cry of
nature with the voice of hate ; 'twas the mind's agony, more lasting
than the body's pain, leaving scars deeper than vulgar eyes can
read — burning, although unseen. I traced him to the house of the
vile medicine — saw him with trembling hand count down his
gold — instinctively I guessed it was the price of blood."

His child's ! " exclaimed Matilda. " Impossible ! Jew though
he be, thou wrongest him."

So judge the pure in heart, lady," resumed the speaker ; " but
so judge not those whom crime or sad necessity hath forced to
watch the hearts of others — to trace deceit lurking beneath the
brow of seeming frankness — falsehood peeping through the mask
of truth — the voice of cruelty with mercy's accents burning on its
lips. Reason tells us what men should be ; bitter experience shows
ua what they are. "What followed proves I judged the Jew and his
rash purpose rightly."

There was a tone of sarcasm aid subdued passion in the voice of
the recluse, which startled the ear of Matilda ; she felt confident
that she had heard its e >'atul before : it woke an echo in her heart
at which memory tremble It was confused, for not one feature
of the wretched man could whe recall to mind. Fixing her eyes
upon him almost with a look of terror, she involuntarily exclaimed
:

Surely we have met before."

The seared brow of her ancient persecutor flushed as he had
heard an accusing angel s voice ; but his repentance was too sincere
to equivocate or deny the truth. Feeling that the time for revealing
himself had not yet arrived, he contented himself by
simply admitting that they had.

When and where ? " dem.\ndi9d the lady, with increased interest
and curiosity.

That, too, ere I quit this Ian /or over, thou shalt learn : this
present hour permit me to proceed. On Falk's departure from the

poisoned's den I entered. It matters little to my story by what
means I forced Mm to confess the purpose of the old man's visit ;
enough, he did confess it. It was to bribe him to prepare a liquid
which, mixed with the water in the sacred font, would cause the
death of all upon whose brow 'twas sprinkled."

Villain ! " cried Gilbert — " unnatural monster ! E'en at the gate
of heaven to sacrifice his child ! "

"Why not have denounced the fearful sacrilege ? " demanded
.Ulrick, who, with the horror-stricken Edith and Matilda, listened
with anxious heart for the conclusion of his tale.

Denounced him ? " repeated the recluse. " Little dost thou
know the fearful race. For good or ill they far surpass the dogged
bloodhound in unwearying patience ; the snake is not more subtle
in its windings, the tiger more ferocious in its spring. I was born
noble as the noblest in my land, was honoured, rich in lands and
friends, possessed a form the eye of beauty had not always loathed
to gaze upon. In evil hour I wronged an aged Jew — a thing," he
added, fiercely, " whom, in my pride of strength, I could have
crushed like a vile worm beneath my feet — whose life, to human
thinking, was a reed within my iron hand ; and yet he vanquished
me."

Vanquished thee ! " repeated Ulrick, in a tone of incredulity,

"Vanquished and judged me. Not, indeed, with knightly arms,
but more than devilish cunning ; deprived me of my very name —
robbed me of the rights I drew e'en from my mother's womb — tore
from my seared and blistered front the seal of individuality which
God had stamped upon my brow — made me the wretch I am."

Fearful man ! " shrieked Matilda, " I know thee now — know
why my heart trembled at thy voice — my nature shuddered at thy
presence. Ulrick, it is "

My father, lady," interrupted Gilbert, clamping her robe, " my
father ! "

The agitation of the poor youth, his imploring glance, and the
recollection that he had saved the life of Kick, sealed the secret
upon her lips ; though how her ancient persecutor could be the
parent of the speaker was a mystery she could scarcely comprehend.

What means this strange terror," demanded Ulrick, " and still
stranger recognition ? However evil," he added, addressing the
recluse, " I know that thou art capable of good, for thy timely
warning saved Prince Henry's life,"

Then for that one good act," said Matilda, " question him no
more ; if he hath deeply sinned he hath been sorely punished.
Unhappy man ! " she added, " Heaven forgive thee ; I never will
accuse thee at its bar."

Thanks, lady, thanks, for thy most generous pardon," replied
the repentant man, at the same time gracefully bending his knee
before her : " it will lighten the anguish of remorse in many a

bitter hour. But concealment comes too late. Ulrick of Cranfield,"
he added, rising as he spoke, and speaking in a firm and almost
haughty tone, " thou seest a man whom friends and kindred alike
deem dead — a man whose dirge Holy Church hath long since sung —
whose heritage his greedy heirs have ta'en — a man who, pandering
to a tyrant's lust, would have aided Rufus to deprive thee of thy
fair bride. I need not say the wreck of Robert of Artois stands
unarmed before thee."

For a few moments there was a powerful struggle in Ulrick's
breast. The man who had caused him so much fearful misery
stood before him. The idea of inquiring an unarmed man never
for an instant presented itself to his imagination ; but Avhen he
reflected upon his wings, twice did he feel tempted to bid him
arm himself, and meet him knightly in the field ; but each time he
encountered Gilbert's pleading look and Matilda's forgiving smile.
The better principle, of his nature prevailed. He could not crush
a heart already torn and bruised.

"Robert," he exclaimed, "friendship there can never be : let
there be peace between us, however great thy crimes. Thou hast
truly spoken — they have been fearfully avenged. This boy,"
pointing to Gilbert, " whom thou tallest thy son, shall be a bond
of mutual forbearance between us. On with the tale this strange
discovery broke."

Enough ! " resumed Robert, as we must call him. " I had the
means to compel the poisoner to my purpose. The nature of the
drug was changed, and a mixture prepared which caused the
appearance of death only. From the opening of the cathedral
doors I watched the arrival of each comer. Despite his disguise, I
recognised the Jew, saw him stealthily pour into the font the
mejins, as he thought, of vengeance on his child. You know the
rest."

Let us haste," said Matilda, " to the vault ; should the poor
child awake amid the horrors of the charnel-house, reason might
totter on its throne."

Fear not for that," observed the preserver of Hester ; " since I
alone possess the power to wake her."

He drew from his vest a small box filled with a pungent aromatic
as he spoke.

Come, father," cried Gilbert, impatiently, " to the vault — the
vault."

Caution, boy," said Robert, calmly ; " for we have to contend
with those who know no scruple where their vengeance is concerned
; the hatred of her race would reach the maiden e'en at the
altar's foot, should they once suspect her life has been preserved.
Can you," he added, addressing Ulrick, " answer for the caution of
all within these walls ? "

All," replied our hero ; " there is not one in Cranfield but loves

the maiden for her gentleness and virtue ; but as already the shades
of night draw on, it were better, perchance, to wait till the household
are retired to rest ere we descend into the chapel. For a few
days Hester can remain concealed within my wife's apartments ;
none can enter unbidden there ; we can afterwards consult the
means of safety — now our first step must be to rescue her."

Ulrick's proposition Alas too reasonable to be rejected ; and,
despite the impatient eagerness of Gilbert and the anxiety of
Matilda, the party remained within the antique oratory waiting the
hour of midnight. Never did the tardy foot of Time advance more
slowly than to the excited watchers. At last the turret-clock struck
the hour, and our hero and Robert of Artois, each taking a waxen
torch from the iron sconces in the walls, prepared to descend.

The chapel of Cranfield was a low, irregular building of unhewn
stone, of even greater antiquity than the hall itself, its architecture
being of the earliest Saxon age. Rude stone cofBns, containing the
ashes of many of its ancient lords, from their ponderous size more
resembling tombs than sarcophagi, were ranged in the aisles, in
deep recesses cut within the walls. The one in which Hester had
been inclosed was in a niche nearest to the altar. Over it frowned
the image of some long-forgotten saint :

Carved in grey stone and cunning work,
The labour of some rustic sculptor's hand.

As the party entered the quaint old edifice, their torches flashed
upon the salient points of the building, lighting the massive shrines
with a dim, religious light, which brought them into a faint relief,
and cast broad, deep shadows, such as Rembrandt would have loved,
upon the roughly-jointed pavement. In fact, the scene was .one
equally suited for the poet or the painter :

Regardless of the night's dull gloom,
They cast around a curious gaze
On low broad arch and massive tomb
Seen by the red light's flickering rays.
Saints in sculptured stone were there,
Whose spirits in the noiseless air

Watched o'er the sacred pile.
kt this perchance the world may deem
My words a visionary di"eam,

Philosophy may smile.
But if communion e'er be given
With beings less of earth than heaven,

'Tis in some lone hour, when
The relics of long ages past,
The shadows o'er the rapt soul cast,

Our thoughts are spirits then.

How still and solemn is the night ! " whispered Matilda, who,
despite her husband's entreaty, had insisted on accompanying them
upon their expedition; "not a breath of air sigh through the

vaults of the old chapel. The very echoes of our footsteps fall
noiseless as the feet of Time upon eternity's dull sand. Yet here
sleeps one," she added, advancing from the entrance of the chapel,
where, with the rest of the party, she had paused to contemplate the
scene, and, pointing to the tomb of Hester, " whom, living or dead,
his breath cannot corrupt, whose nobler essence his scythe cannot
destroy, for her mortal covering was no more to Hester than the
casket to the gem it guards and holds."

True ! " exclaimed the recluse ; " and from this bed of death —
this living tomb, replete with life and beauty, shall arise creation's
masterpiece — pure, lovely woman. Whilst all is silent, let us hasten
to hurl back the ponderous stone, and wake her back to life and its
warm ties — its tears, humanities, and tenderness — if possible, to
love."

As pale as monumental marble, Gilbert was standing by the
tomb ; life and passion seemed to have deserted his cold cheek ;
his heart was too full for words — one would have broken it ; a tear
would have been a blessing, and yet he could not weep. Rooted
he stood, like a statue, by the spot — animation and life suspended
in the deep struggles of doubt and hope.

"Aid me," said Ulrick, drawing from his vest a bar of iron,
which he had brought with him for the purpose, and at the same
time placing his torch in the hands of Matilda ; " should the poor
girl awake within her tomb, it were too much for reason ; aid me
to lift the stone".

By the repeated efforts of the speaker and the recluse — for Gilbert
remained perfectly incapable of rendering the least assistance — the
ponderous lid of the coffin was at length removed, and the fair form
of the inmate met their gaze. Her countenance was as calm as that
of an angel sleeping. The flowers with which affection had strewed
her resting-place were still unfaded. Her hand, Matilda thought,
grasped the silver crucifix, which the primate himself had placed
upon her breast, as if to press the image of her Saviour nearer to
her heart. Stooping, she imprinted a kiss upon the sleeper's brow,
and felt, as she did so, more than a dawn of hope, for a gentle
moisture, different from the cold, clammy dew of death, remained
upon her lips.

At the sight of the being whom he so tenderly, passionately,
though hopelessly, loved, the spell which had bound the senses of
Gilbert was broken. With a loud cry he flung himself at the foot
of the coffin, and called upon her, with a thousand endearing expressions,
to awake and gladden those who loved her by her
presence.

Wake, Hester ! " he exclaimed, " that earth may once more
gladden in thy smile. Wake, and save me from the living death
which existence without hope or love must bring. Wake," he
continued, in a strain of yet deeper passion, "though but to

enshrine thy beauty in a cloister. I still might hover round thy
home, as restless spirits pine around Eden's gates. Wake," he
added, with a cry of despair, seeing that his adjurations were unanswered,
" e'en though it be to smile upon another, to break the
heart whose idol thou hast been, and whose last words shall bless
thee."

Patience, Gilbert," said Ulrick, laying his hand kindly upon his
shoulder ; "prayers and tears are for the dead, and Hester, I trust,
is living. See, her brow is unchanged, the rose upon her lips
unfaded ; be firm, and wait with patience."

She'll wake no more," groaned the excited boy ; " Death is too
greedy of his prey to resign so fair a victim — heaven too proud of
such a conquest to yield back the brightest angel of its virgin choir.
Father," he added, wildly, " thou hast deceived me — broken alike
thy faith and my torn heart ; for this is death — not sleep — not
sleep."

The recluse, deeply moved by his son's agitation, drew from his
vest a small silver box, which he carefully opened, and poured a
portion of its highly aromatic contents upon a sponge, So powerful
was the perfume that the chapel was filled with the sweet odour.
Placing the sponge in the hand of Gilbert, he said :

Apply it to her brow and nostrils : the subtle essence will
evaporate the foul drug which holds the maiden in this lethargy.
Be firm ; trust to thy leather's word — he will not fail thee, boy." •

Eagerly did his son receive the precious gift, and kneeling by
the Bide of the fair girl, applied it, as he was directed, to her brow
and nostrils. The effect was slow but curious ; no sooner did the
essence come in contact with the spots where the poisoned water
had fallen, than a thin vapour was distinctly seen to arise from the
sleeper's skin, a profuse perspiration followed, and, to the inexpressible
joy of all, a deep-drawn sigh proved that the breath of
life was not extinct within her form.

Thank Heaven ! " whispered Matilda, who had watched the
process with intense interest as well as hope, " she breathes." Had
not a flood of tears come to her relief, she must have fainted, so
violent had been her emotion.

At last, to the frantic delight of Gilbert, Hester slowly opened
her eyes, but as if overcome by the light of the torches round the
coffin, or oppressed by the soporific influence of the drug, heavily
closed them again ; her lips moved twice — nothing but inarticulate
sounds, however, broke from them.

Hush," said Ulrick, " she would speak— there again," he added,
at the second effort.

Gilbert !" faintly murmured the waking girl, again opening
her eyes, and fixing them upon the youth.

She speaks ! " he shrieked, starting from his knees and raising
her in his arms. "Heaven hath heard its wretched creature's

prayer — the cry of his lone agony — the voice of his bruised heart.
God ! " he added, " dares the impious wretch who doubted of Thy
mercy, dares he thank Thee ? "

Matilda received the scarcely awakened girl within her arms
from Gilbert, who reluctantly resigned her ; so greedy did he feel
of the privilege of once more supporting her weak, trembling form,
that he felt jealous of resigning it even to one of her own sex.

Let us quit this gloomy place," said Matilda, in her turn
resigning the precious burthen to her husband's stalwart arne.
Bear her to my chamber ; she is cold — but half-recovered still.
I and my women are the best nurses now'"

The proposal was too rational to be opposed even by Gilbert,
who entreated, however, to be permitted to kiss her hand ere
Ulrick bore her from the chapel. He had the happiness of again
hearing her murmur his name as she was carried from l^m. — a
circumstance which neither Matilda nor her husband failed to remark.


On the following day, when Gilbert was admitted to the presence
of Hester, he observed with joy the faint blush of pleasure which
suffused her cheek as lie entered the chamber. Our readers will
remember the effort which she made at the moment of her supposed
death to open her sealed eyes — the look she had cast upon
him — the half-murmured expression of his name. The cry of his
despairing love had waked an echo in her heart never heard till
then, and the same name had been the first word her lips pronounced
when recalled from the living tomb to which she had been
consigned. Living it might indeed be called, for, although
animation had been suspended, consciousness had all the while
remained. She remembered the death-dirge which had been
chanted over her, had felt the warm tears of Matilda as she imprinted
the parting kiss upon her brow, and endured for four-and-twenty
hours all the terrors of the grave ; felt, in anticipation, the
earthworm preying on her beating heart. Vain had been all her
efforts either to move or speak ; the drug was too potent for her
will to break ; every faculty seemed changed to stone ; she felt
like a living statue imprisoned in a rock.

In the desolation of her loneliness the memory of Gilbert had
returned to her — his boyish but devoted love — the agony of his
parting look — and the first feelings of love engendered in her heart,
as it faintly beat within its sepulchre. Many days had not elapsed
before the ardent youth obtained from her the confession that she
was content to live for him ; that gratitude had given birth to a yet
warmer passion.

How sweet, how exciting is the sensation when first the lip of
woman tells us we are beloved ! The soul expands, it merges into
a new existence. The flowers appear more fragrant to the sense ;
earth seems full of music, we hear its melodies in every

murmuring wind or babbling brook, catch beauty from the stars,
revel in nature's harmonies, and find a shrine in every nook and
dell. Pity the heart can feel the spell but once ! Other and fairer
lips may breathe the words again, but they will never fall so
sweetly on the ear as when man hears them first.

For days Gilbert was plunged in this intoxicating bliss. When
driven, from the chamber by Matilda's anxious care, he wandered
in the umbrageous woods of Cranfield, told to the trees his tale of
happiness, or whispered it to every running stream. Hester was
soon sufficiently recovered to share his walks ; and often at the
evening hour, deeply veiled, accompanied by Ulrick and Matilda,
she would venture forth to catch fresh health from the pure breeze
of heaven.

The lord of Cranfield felt it to be his duty to inform the
venerable primate, whom the proceedings which necessarily
followed Eborard's deposition detained in the city, of the wonderful
recovery of Mary ; for it is by her Christian name that we shall
henceforth designate the beautiful convert. The good man
listened with astonishment to the strange tale, with indulgent
kindness to the history of her love. Stern only to himself, his
heart was not insensible to the happiness of others ; and after a
long interview with Robert of Artois, in which that unhappy man
revealed to him, under the seal of confession, the secret of Gilbert's
birth, Lanfranc not only gave his approbation to the marriage,
but offered himself to visit Cranfield, and secretly to celebrate the
rite. Addressing himself to Ulrick, as he bade him farewell, he
said :

Heaven, it seems, hath designed them for each other, and mine
shall not be the voice to part them. Go," he added ; " in five days
I will meet you at your ancestral home. There shall their love be
consecrated by the Church's blessing ; that done, let them quit
England, and for ever. The unnatural fury of her father, should
he discover that his child yet lives, may else prove fatal to her,
despite a husband's watchful care and love."

It were needless to describe the ecstasy of Gilbert or the blushes
of Mary, when they heard the primate's decision : the first was
wild with joy, the latter calm in the deep sentiment of her
happiness — a happiness she was too pure a child of nature to
conceal, too artless to deny — a happiness which their friends
witnessed with a joy but second to their o\vn.

Our readers may remember that on the retirement of Robert of
Normandy from England, Mirvan, whose principal possessions, as
well as those of his bride, were situated in that country, resolved to
follow him, being too much disgusted with William's tyranny to
accept him as his sovereign. With the consent of both princes he
succeeded in exchanging his English fiefs for estates of equal value
in the land of his fathers, whither it was his intention to sail as soon

as Ralph de Gael, his successor as governor of the city, should
arrive. Under his protection it was decided that Gilbert and his
young bride should retire to Normandy, where, with the wealth
which Robert of Artois had rescued from his unworthy uncle, they
could live in happiness, if not in splendour. Fain would Ulrick
and Matilda shave accompanied them ; but they were bound to
England by other ties and other claims. Edith and the venerable
Edda still lived to claim their care.

The day at last arrived which was to unite the youthful lovers
in those indissoluble bonds which death alone can break. Faithful
to his promise, the venerable Lanfranc arrived at Cranfield ; the
chapel was secretly prepared, and at midnight, in the presence of
Ulrick and Matilda, the nuptial benediction was pronounced.

Three days afterwards the happy pair sailed under the protection
of Mirvan and Isabel for Normandy, their future home of love and
happiness. The letters which their kind protector furnished them
vnih for the duke insured them a princely welcome, and Gilbert
gradually rose to offices of trust and honour. As the party were
assembled on the Denes at Yarmouth, watching the arrival of the
boat which was to convey them to their ship, the happy bridegroom
was made aware that his separation from his father was to be
eternal. To all his remonstrances the repentant Robert of Artois
answered that his resolution was fixed,'^and that his future days,
under the approbation of the primate, were devoted to his God alone.

Go, my children," he added, " and if the blessing of a guilty
man may weigh with Heaven, mine shall fall like its soft dews
upon your innocent heads ! Whether in the cloister's shade or the
far-distant plains of Palestine, my last thoughts will be of you ;
my latest prayers be yours ! Farewell ! Pray that at the
judgment-seat of the Most High we all may meet again ! "

There is nothing more painful to the heart than the bitter task
of bidding adieu to those we love ; linger over it as we will, the
fatal word must at last be spoken. Happily the agony it occasions
is seldom lasting, or o'ercharged nature would succumb beneath
the pain. Still it was long, very long, ere the sundered friends
forgot the anguish of that sad hour. Mary clung to Ulrick and
Matilda, with all the passionate grief which an infant feels when
separated from the parents v/ho have loved it. The former was at
last obliged to untwine her arms from the agitated Matilda's neck,
and place her in the boat, where, on the shoulder of her equally
affectionate Gilbert, her sorrow gradually exhausted itself in tears
and prayers for the generous beings who had so warmly sheltered
and protected her.

As the vessel receded from their view the primate bestowed his
benediction on the exiles ; it accompanied them on their journey
over the deep waters, even to the country of their future home :
the good man's prayers were heard in heaven.

Three months after the scene we have endeavoured to describe
Matilda became a mother, and the joy which she and Ulrick both
felt as they clasped their infant daughter to their breasts blunted
the edge of their regret. The aged Edda lived long enough to
hold the little stranger at the font : perhaps, in the secret wishes of
his heart, he would rather it had been a boy ; but 'as its parents
were both young enough to be the authors of a numerous race, he
concealed his disappointment, and expired in the arms of his
grandson — blessing him and the infant shoot whose graceful
maturity he was not destined to witness. Seven years afterwards
a second daughter completed the domestic happiness of our hero,
who welcomed it with as fond a smile as though it had been a son
destined to bear to distant time the noble name and manly virtues
of his father.

Robert had act'^i wis 1;^ in exacting from his brother William
*he C2th «r rM-;„ce with regard to the safety of the lord of
Cranfield. Although frequently urged by his unworthy minion
Tyrrel — whose hatred of Ulrick since the dreadful interview in the
tent had, if possible, increased — to exert the regal power to oppress
him, the king remained faithful to his vow ; the fearful penalty
which he superstitiously believed attached to its violation he dared
not brave. Securely seated on the throne, he even permitted the
return of his younger brother. Prince Henry, to England, where he
doled out to him at intervals the, scanty appanage which the
Conqueror had left him.

Rus us had reigned about eight years, when the death of Lanfranc
rendered the primacy vacant ; an occasion which the greedy
monarch eagerly seized for retaining its revenues in his hands, ashe
had already done those of several other vacant bishoprics ; but
falling into a dangerous sickness, he was seized with remorse, and
the clergy representing to him that he was in danger of eternal
perdition if he did not make atonement, he sent for Anselm, abbot
of Bee, who, our readers will remember, had been one of his
brother's most devoted partisans. The churchman, on his arrival,
humbly refused the dignity — fell upon his knees, and entreated
the king to change his purpose, and when he found the monarch
resolved, kept his hand so closed that it required considerable
violence to force him to receive the insignia of his spiritual office ;
but once within his grasp, he held it firmly — and "William had more
than one occasion to repent the choice he had made, for the new
prelate was as courageous as he was incorruptible ; in short, for
once the tyrant had found his master. Anselm's reputation for
sanctity and humility was too great for even the regal authority to
venture to assail him.

In the midst of his career William had often experienced one
bitter pang — the thought that on his death-bed his brother Robert,

whom he detested, or Henry, who was equal) j'' the object of his

aversion, would succeed him. He resolved, therefore, to marry,
and secure, if possible, a direct successor to his crown. By means
of spies, he discovered that his younger brother frequently visited
the convent at Rumsey, where the Princess Matilda, daughter of
Malcolm, the third king of Scotland, resided, under the protection
of her aunt, the abbess Christina. Although, during the lifetime of
her uncle and brothers, Matilda was not the heiress of the Saxon line,,
still she was dear to the nation on account of her connection with
it. Her lover — for such Prince Henry in secret was — had never
forgotten the prediction of the aged monk, Father Segsil, at Croydon.
Ambition had tempted him in his first visit to the convent ; but the
virtues and beauty of the recluse soon inspired him with a purer
motive, and he loved — truly, passionately loved. Nor was it long
ere he won from the fair girl's lips the confession that he was
beloved again. We may imagine, therefore, his fury and despair
when Tyrrel, with a malicious smile, announced to him his brother's
intentions of proceeding to the convent, and to give England a
queen in the person of the Saxon princess. Deeply as he felt
wounded, both in love and in ambition, by the intelligence, he was
too much a courtier to give his enemy the triumph of perceiving
that the shaft had reached him, and he parried the thrust by
demanding, in his turn, when the king was to bestow on him the
so long promised earldom, which his services merited. This was
a sore subject with the traitor, and he winced beneath the thrust.
Despite all that he had done (and his services to William had been
as varied as they were unscrupulous) the recompense was as distant
as ever. The monarch still put him off with promises ; nay, seemed
to take a malicious pleasure in exciting his hopes only to disappoint
them. Indeed, his intention in this respect was frequently so
apparent, that the traitor often questioned whether the secret of his
birth was not even known or guessed at by the tyrant, and the
suspicion but added to his shame and disappointment.

William will find," said Tyrrel, with a scowl, " that even my
loyalty may be xirged too far. He hath broken promise and oath
with me ; and yet the latter," he added, with a peculiar smile, " was
a strange one."

It woiild have been stranger," observed Prince Henry, "had he
kept it. Humph ! " he added, as he turned upon his heel and left
the knight, "that fellow might be useful ; he hath a conscience as
pliant as a courtier's back."

That very night the unhappy lover sought an interview with
Anselm ; an achievement of no common danger, for since the recovery
of his health the Red King's remorse had disappeared, and
he bitterly regretted that ever he had been induced to bestow the
primacy upon a character so cold and so unyielding as Anselm.
Since their dispute, the episcopal palace had been continually
surrounded with spies ; and those nobles were sure of being visited

Y 2

with their monarch's displeasure who either visited or entertained
relations of amity with its master. It was not, therefore, without
reason that the prince took the precaution of disguising himself
in a monk's gown and capuchin to obtain access to him. Cold as
Anselm was, he was not incapable of friendship. He had not forgotten
the previous visits of Henry to Westminster, when he was
only Abbot of Bee, and he received him again, if not with warmth,
at least with cordiality, and listened to his tale with deep interest.

What ! " exclaimed the primate, when Henry had related his
tale ; " wed with a nun professed ! Is William mad ? or does he
dream the Church's thunders slumber in our hand ? There must be
some deceit in this ; he never dares attempt it."

You mistake, venerable father," sighed the anxious lover ;
Matilda is not a nun : she has only worn the veil as a protection in
these lawless times, when even the altar can scarce protect its own.
Her lips as yet have breathed no vow which sunders her for ever
from the world."

Then am I powerless ! " exclaimed the churchman. " Had r^he
been wedded to the altar, I would have snatched her from a
hundred kings ; but, as it is, Rufus may claim her person : he is
the guardian of every orphan in the realm."

But still," said Henry, and then paused.

"Still what?" demanded Anselm, fixing his eyes upon the
hesitating speaker.

The Church may claim her still. Who is to know her vow is
yet unspoken, if you assert it is ? Pardon me, holy father," he
added, sinking on^his knee as he marked the frown on the prelate's
brow; "but despair hath made me mad. I love the fair Matilda,
not with the rash impulse of a lawless love, but truly, nobly, with
a passion worthy her name and mine. Again," he added, " my
tyrant brother threatens to cross my path. He hath despoiled me,
and I have borne it patiently ; plotted against my life, and I have
forgiven him ; but let him touch my love, my heart's first hope, my
manhood's prize, and I . will beard him in his strength. Like
himself, I have the blood of the same fiend-begotten ancestor
within my veins. Let him beware how he arouses it."

This is the very frenzy of despair. Hast thou forgot he is thy
king as well as brother ? " demanded Anselm, " But perchance it
is ambition leads thee to seek the Saxon princess's hand. Her
name, in the event of William's death, would pave her husband's
pathway to the throne. And I have not now to learn that Henry
of Normandy aspires to the crown."

At present he aspires only to the love of the fair Matilda,"
answered the young man.

And I will aid thee ! " exclaimed Anselm, after a pause, during
which he had well scrutinised the features of his visitor — " when
does Rufus start for Rumsev ? "

With the dawn. With him to will is to perform. He kno^vs
no procrastination in the search of interest or pleasure."

I will place a bar between him and his hopes," resumed the
primate, " which, powerful as he is, he cannot break. Farewell,
and thank thy fortunes for this visit ; it hath saved the maiden
from the tiger's fangs. No words — I know the gratitude of princes.
!• will save Matilda for her own sake as well as thine."

That very night the archbishop, attended only by a slender train,
left the metropolis, and directed his way towards the convent where
the princess, unconscious of her danger, resided, in her holy, calm
retirement.

On the second day after his departure, William, attended by &
numerous suite of nobles and retainers, entered the small town of
Rumsey. With a refinement of cruelty which only a heart like
his would have been capable of. Prince Henry was forced to be of
the party. The only hope of the unhappy lover was in the promise
which Anselm had made. Although he could not foresee the means,
he doubted not of the power of the holy man to perform his word,
for his influence was scarcely second to that of the Red King
himself.

On arriving at the front of the convent, they found the gates
closely barred ; nor was it till the third summons of the herald, who
demanded admittance in the name of the monarch, that the venerable
and noble abbess condescended to make her appearance at the
gate. Proud of her royal birth, and still more of her spiritual
authority, the aged Christina demanded, in a cold, calm tone, the
cause of the king's visit to her humble cell ; for so, in the mock
humility of the age, she designated the truly magnificent establishment
over which she had so long and honourably presided.

I come to claim my ward," impatiently exclaimed the tyrant —
the Saxon princess, Matilda, who hath too long been lost in the
obscurity of the cloister — to place her in a sphere where the homage
due alike unto her birth and matchless beauty shall encircle her —
in a word, good mother, to place her on the throne to which she is
so nearly allied in blood."

Matilda is the bride of Heaven," answered the abbess, " and
earthly love, e'en though a monarch's, were a sacrilege too fearful
to be dwelt on. Retire, then, prince, and leave the house of God
to its poor inmates, who ask but liberty to pray for the welfare of
their country and the salvation of their souls in solitude and
silence. Again I do repeat it, Matilda is professed."

'Tis false," said the infuriated Rufus ; " none of your holy
trickery with me, your pious mummery, and holy cant ! Give
entrance to the convent, or by my father's soul, I'll batter the
sacred rookery down ! Fit fate for such a nest of treason and
rebellion ! ."

The will of Heaven be done ! " exclaimed the aged abbess.

Come, then, and, if thou dearest, rend the Church's bride e'en
from the nuptial altar ; but beware," she added, sternly, "the curse
of the saint from whose embrace you tear her. Weak as my voice
is, it shall yet be heard in heaven for vengeance on the sacrilege
and crime. Unbar the gates," she added to her attendants, " and
let the monarch enter."

Without deigning an obeisance to the tyrant, the venerable
speaker retired from the gate, and in a few minutes the ponderous
doors of the church were flung wide, and Rufus and his nobles
entered.

The scene which met their view was well calculated to impress
the superstitious nobles with awe. As they advanced slowly down
the centre aisle, in every stall of the choir was seated the
immovable form of a veiled nun. The superior had resumed her seat
upon her abbatial throne, close to the high altar, which blazed with
a hundred lighted tapers ; clouds of rich incense filled the air, and
partially obscured the group of priests who officiated before the
sacred shrine. In the centre of them might be perceived the
kneeling form of the young princess, divested of her rich attire,
and robed in the simple habit of a nun ; a long tress of her golden
hair, lately severed from her fair head, lay upon the altar ; and as
William and his train gained the centre of the church, the black
veil held by the officiating priest descended like a cloud upon her
head. The heart of the unhappy Henry failed him at the sight ; it
seemed the knell of hope.

What trickery is this ? " demanded William, his cheek and
brow flushed with rage at the sight. " Where is the Saxon
princess, the niece of Edgar Atheling ? "

Dead !" replied the abbess ; "the princess Matilda lives no more."
Dead ! " echoed the king and nobles.

Dead," resumed the abbess, " to the world ; she is a nun professed.
Raise, sisters, the hymn to invoke the blessing of the Most
High upon the sacrifice."

In obedience to the command of their superior, the nuns had
commenced the " Veni Creator " before the disappointed king ^
had recovered himself sufficiently to interrupt them. His harsh
discordant voice was soon, however, heard above the choral strain
of the trembling cloistered maids.

And who," he exclaimed, " without my license, hath dared todo
this ? Bear witness all," he added, " the rites are not yet complete
; that, without my sanction, they are invalid. Matilda is
destined to a throne ; she is my ward, and thus I claim my right."
The speaker strode to the rails of the altar, which he burst recklessly
open, and advanced to seize the trembling girl, who clung to
the sanctuary for protection. Already had his rude hands grasped
her veil, when the deep voice of the primate, whose presence he
had not perceived amongst the crowd of priests, arrested the

impious act ; he started at the sound ; the hiss of a serpent had
been more grateful in his ear,

•' 'Tis well, prince," said the churchman ; " is not the measure of
thy iniquity yet full ? Thou hast widowed the Church of her
bishops ; applied to ambition and ungodly waste the revenues of
the sequestered sees, the patrimony of heaven and the poor ; and
now, to complete thy guilt, thou comest with armed men and
sinful violence to rend the spotless bride of Christ from His insulted
altar. Back," he added, " ere the justice of offended Deity
levels the thunder of its Avrath against thee ; back, ere I place thy
realm in interdict, and breathe on thee, and all that aid thy evil
passions, the sentence of the Church."

At the sound of Anselm's voice the most devoted followers of
Rufus drew back ; they knew too well his stern, unbending nature
and vast influence with the people, from his reputed sanctity, to
brave him. The Red King alone maintained his ground, and
confronted the courageous primate.

I will at once appoint bishops to the vacant sees ! " he exclaimed,
trusting to bribe Anselm to acquiescence by the promise ; " restore
the revenues ! "

Back," repeated the archbishop, sternly.
Yield on the point of the investitures," he added.
Back," continued the unmoved prelate.
Confirm the Church's liberties."

Back," iterated the churchman, who knew too well the
character of the monarch to trust his promises, or be deceived by
them into a dereliction of his duty.

Seeing that his commands were not obeyed, the archbishop
advanced to the altar, and taking in his hands the legatine cross,
held it up slowly before the people : every knee, except William's,
was bent in the church at the sight. Then followed a breathless
pause, for all guessed the fearful words about to follow.

Let all who would not share in the excommunication," he continued,
" pass the threshold of the church. If a single armed foot
but cross the sacred line an inch, a breadth, a hair, on him and on
his race I breathe the curse of Heaven."

What ! " exclaimed William, as he saw the nobles slowly quit
the church, " will you desert me at yon shaveling's bidding ?
Salisbury, Mortimer, Warrennene ! is this j-our loyalty ? Traitors ! "
he added, when he saw that all but himself had passed the limit
prescribed by the primate, " your lands shall pay the forfeit of this
treason."

We will not war against the Church ! " exclaimed the nobles.
Our lands were won by our good swords ; our swords shall still
maintain them. Thou art the king, but he is the archbishop."

He is a traitor ! " hoarsely muttered the king, at the same time
laying his hand upon his sword.

Strike ! " said the prelate, " and crown my pilgrimage with the
Martyr's glorious crown ; strike, and deluge the shrine of God with
blood ; strike and set the seal of death upon thy guilty soul. Lo ! "
Te added, snatching the veil of Matilda from his grasp, " I defy
thee ; king as thou art, I thrust thee forth from out the sacred
precincts. Armed with the Church's banner, I oppose thee — drive
thee like a fierce wolf from out the sacred fold."

The instant William drew his sword the horror-stricken nobles
cried out " Sacrilege ! " and had rushed into the church, had not
the previous command of the archbishop restrained them.

William, subdued by the firmness of his enemy, and alarmed at
the spirit displayed by his hitherto obsequious barons, recoiled as
the prelate advanced, and retreated backwards till he had passed
the threshold, Anselm following him all the while under the protection
of his cross. As soon as the royal intruder was expelled,
the primate with his own hands closed the gates, and the choir
burst forth spontaneously in a hymn of triumph.

In an irritated mood, the baffled tyrant returned to London, and
immediately afterwards, attended only by Tyrrel and a few of his
immediate followers, started for the New Forest, created by the
devastation of his father, to indulge in the pleasures of the chase.

On the third morning after his arrival, at an early hour, he left
Winchester, accompanied by William de Retail, Tyrrel. and others,
lor the hunt. Fortunately for the fair fame of his brother. Prince
Henry on that fatal' day remained in Winchester, or a share in the
death of the tyrant had doubtless been attributed to him.

Rufus, like all the princes of his line, was extremely jealous of
Ms prerogatives in hunting. Volumes might be filled with the
cruelties inflicted by the Norman sovereigns upon the transgressors
of the game-laws. The chase was their ruling passion, and Tyrrel
shared in the instincts of his race. In a sylvan glade of the forest
hie had stricken a royal deer, which was so designated from the
number of branches on its antlers ; his foot was already upon the
neck of the palpitating victim — the knife in his hand ready to give
the couj} de grace, when a horseman broke through the intervening
brushwood. It was Rufus, whose evil genius had sent him to be a
witness of the act.

Villain ! " he exclaimed, " it is a royal hart. What insolence is
this ? — e'en in our very presence to strike our prize ! "

Tyrrel murmured something about not having counted the
number of branches on its antlers.

I'll teach thee how to count ! " interrupted the furious monarch.
^ By heavens, it is a hart of grease fit for a king to chase ! A prison
may teach thee better manners, knave. Should the hound be served
before its master ? " ;

Stung by the insult, and alarmed at the menaces of the tyrant,
^A'ho had never been known to pardon an offence against the forest

"1

laws, Tyrrel became desperate. The consciousness of high birth
and merited degradation — of William's broken promises, had engendered
a flood of venom in his heart, which wanted but one added
drop to make it overflow. That drop the last words of Rufus gave.

Hound ! " iterated Tyrrel. " Hear ! 'Tis thou who art the
hound, and I thy master. Remember thy oath — ' May the Greenest
arrow in thy quiver pierce my perjured heart if I break faith with
thee'' The faith hath been broken, and the hour of vengeance hath
at last arrived."

Traitor ! " said Rufus, half-drawing his sword.

Traitor to thy teeth ! " exclaimed Tyrrel, as he fixed the fatal
arrow to his bow. " Know 'tis thy injured brother Robert's son
who strikes — whose avenging arrow rids England of her tyrant,
and peoples hell with another of his fated race."

That very night the body of" the Red King was conveyed to
Winchester in a common cart by a peasant family named Turkish,
who had found it in the forest, and the guilty Tyrrel sailed in a
fishing boat from the land where his birth entitled him to reign.

CHAPTER XXI.

On hearing of the death of his brother, Prince Henry felt that th
moment had arrived for the realisation of his long cherished and
deeply meditated schemes of ambition. His first step was to happen
to the episcopal palace in Winchester, and secure the treasures of
the late king — an act which he successfully accomplished, despite
the remonstrances of their keeper, De Breteuil, who frankly told
him that they were the property of his legitimate sovereign and
elder brother Robert. The impetuous prince drew his sword, and
menaced him with death in the event of his resisting him ; and
being backed by a considerable number of barons, whom he had
gained over to his cause, that faithful officer was compelled to
yield. Two days afterwards, feeling himself sufficiently strong,
Henry threw off the mask, and proclaimed himself king ; his
elder brother's absence from the kingdom materially facilitated his
obtaining possession of the crown. Thus the rights of Robert were
a second time set aside by the successful usurpation of the younger
princes. After a short struggle, during which that unfortunate
man displayed his usual reckless courage and inconsistency, a
compromise was entered into, chiefly by the influence of the primate
Anselm. The. elder brother resumed his duchy of Normandy, and
acknowledged Henry as king, on condition that the latter paid him
a considerable pension annually.

Ulrick had been amongst the first of the few nobles who joined
the standard of the legitimate monarch, and the very last to
counsel his abdication of his rights — a conduct which, when tho

struggle had terminated, did him no injury in the friendship of
Henry, who, of all his brother's partisans, excepted the lord of
Cranfield alone from feeling the weight of his resentment, and
even invited him to be present at his nuptials with the Princess
Matilda, which, as soon as the peace was concluded, he prepared to
celebrate with all due pomp at Westminster.

A council of prelates had been previously held by Anselm, who
declared before them that the vow taken by the Saxon maiden had
only been conditional, as a means of protecting her from the
tyranny of the late king. The reasons were found valid, and
Matilda pronounced at liberty to marry by the unanimous
judgment of the assembly.

The abbey church was crowded by nobles and their high-born
dames, who vied with each other in the cumbrous magnificence of
their costume. Despite the censures of the Church (and the
primate had fulminated them loud and frequently) against the prevailing
fashion of the day — the long-toed shoes, looped with silver,
and not unfrequently golden, chains to the knee — the wearers of
these forbidden ornaments were numerous and bold : the occasion
of displaying their preposterous finery was too tempting to be lost,
but the most prudent took care to draw back from the circle
which surrounded the archbishop, whose inflexibility they well
knew and dreaded. This ridiculous mode lasted nearly two
centuries, despite the prohibition of the Church, which even in the
plenitude of its power, when its thunders could crush a throne,
found them impotent against a fashion. Such are the anomalies of
poor, weak human nature.

The shouts of the people, who were transported at the idea of the
descendant of their ancient monarchs sharing the Conqueror's
throne, announced the arrival of Henry and his bride, who soon
afterwards entered the church, followed by the abbess of Rumsey,
the aged Princess Christina, Ulrick, Matilda, and a stately train of
chivalry and beauty. As the bridal procession moved towards the
high altar, where Anselm, attended by his suffragan bishops,
stood ready to perform the rite, Ulrick's thoughts naturally
reverted to the aged monk at Croydon, who had prophesied to
Henry his high fortune, and its continuance, provided he married
in the royal Saxon line ; nor did he fail to remember the prediction
touching his own fate — " a life of unblemished honour, but a
broken heart." " Let it come," he murmured to himself ; " provided
it spare those I love, I fear not the bolt myself."

He was soon, however, diverted from such sombre thoughts by
the commencement of the ceremony.

The archbishop had scarcely pronounced the first words of the
service, when a loud voice from the back of the altar commanded
him to forbear. In an instant all was confusion ; men gazed upon
each other, and with inquiring eyes seemed to demand the cause of

such unseemly interruption. The superstitious trembled, for the
sound evidently came from the shrine of St. Edward the Confessor,
whose canonised bones rested behind the altar. After a few
moments' pause, during which Henry endeavoured to reassure his
trembling bride, just as Anselm was about to recommence the
ceremony, the command was repeated in a still louder tone than
before, and the tall, stately form of Father Segsil, the aged monk
of Croydon, was seen slowly advancing from the tomb of the
sainted king, whose name was still so dear to every Saxon heart.
Though clad merely in the ample, flowing, dark robe of his order,
prelates and nobles were alike impressed with awe at his appearance.
A long silver beard fell in waving masses upon his breast, his
features, though sharp with age and vigil, retained traces of former
beauty as well as dignity ; bright blue eyes flashed from beneath
a lofty brow, such as the divine Angelo in after years gave to the
prophet Moses. Time, as loth to touch perfection, had laid his
hand most gently upon him ; his noble form was but slightly bent
with the weight of a hundred years ; and as he slowly advanced,
guiding his steps with a simple staff, all involuntarily made way
for him, till he stood before the altar, confronting Henry and the
archbishop.

Fixing a searching glance upon the bridegroom, he demanded ina
tone in which a monarch might have addressed his vassal, or the
priest of Jove proclaimed his antique oracle to some expectant
worshipper :

Dost thou remember me, king ? "

Henry, who was too much impressed by the sudden apparition
to reply, bowed his head in token of his recognition of the
speaker, whom, from his vast age, he had long since considered as
numbered with the dead.

All I foretold thee is accomplished," resumed the old man :
the Red King sleeps within his grave, and thou art king."

Most ti'ue, good father," replied the monarch, who had quickly
recovered from his surprise.

I told thee, prince, that we should meet again — meet at the
proudest moment of thy life — and I have kept my word. But if
this marriage," added the monk, " is indeed to bind the Norman
and the Saxon race in the strong chain of love — to heal the
wounds of mutual hate, and give a long divided country peace — no
voice but mine must celebrate the rite. It is for this that I have
lived. This one act accomplished, I have done with life, and all its
waking dreams."

Art mad, my brother .? " exclaimed the archbishop, indignant
that a simple monk should interfere with his high office. " Who
art thou that, at thy bidding, England's primate should resign his
functions ? — speak ! I love not priests who deal in mysteries."

With a faint smile, Father Segsil approached the angry prelate,

and whispered a single word into his ear. ; the effect was electrical.


Anselm started, and regarded the old man with an air of mingled
awe, astonishment, and respect. Bowing his head in acquiescence,
he took from one of the attendant bishops his consecrated stole,
and placed it with his own hands around the neck of the aged
man ; saying, as he did so :

It bi-s most just. The will of Heaven be done."

Henry and his bride were both too much struck by the lofty bearing
of Father Segsil and the sudden act of the archbishop, to offer the
least opposition. On a motion of the old man's hand they knelt
before him, whilst with a firm voice, which sounded through the
lofty aisles of the church like an echo from the grave, he
pronounced the nuptial benediction. At the conclusion of the
ceremony he laid his hand upon the head of the youthful queen,
and blessed her even as a father might have blessed his child.

'• Thou daughter of a hundred kings!" he, cried; "yet a few
Segments, and the voice which blesses thee shall be heard no more
on earth, but it shall rise before the throne of the Most High, to
implore His mercies upon thee and on thy people. Protect thy
oppressed country ; be thou a refuge to the weak — a hope to the
despairing ; so shall men bless thy name on earth, and angels write
it in the Book of Life in heaven. So shall thy race — no, no," he
murmured, as, overcome by some sudden emotion, he sank into
the arms of those around him. " Dark ! dark ! The spirit hath
passed from me. I can see no more."

He is dying ! " exclaimed Anselm, who had placed his finger
upon the pulse of the aged monk ; " his race is run."

Hast thou no blessing, no gift for me ? " demanded Henry,
bending his knee, and catching the hand of the expiring man,
whose sudden death, after the accomplishment of the events he
had so singularly foretold, struck him with religious awe and
astonishment.

I have," faintly replied Father Segsil, opening with an effort
his nearly closed eyes. '• Where is St. Edward's crown ? "

Upon my brow," answered the king.

*' And where his sceptre ? " he resumed, in a still weaker tone.

*' I bear it in my hand."

All," murmured the old man to himself, " all but the ring are
there — St. Edward's ring, the matchless gem, graved with the holy
cross. St. George, who won the ruby stone in Palestine, predicted
it should ne'er be worn except by England's kings. Where," he
added, speaking in a still louder tone to the Norman prince, " where
is the coronation ring of England's monarchs ? "

Lost ! " exclaimed the abbot of .westminster, who, from his
office, was guardian of the regalia ; " lost on the field of Hastings.
It is well known the Saxon monarch wore it in the battle ; it hath

never since been found, despite the recompense the Conqueror
offered, the search his soldiers made."

Father Segsil, with an effort which seemed far beyond his
expiring strength, raised himself from the arms of those who
supported him, and gazed with an expression of mingled benevolence
and dignity upon the youthful sovereign at his feet.
Thrusting his hand into his bosom, he slowly drew from it the
long-lost gem, and placed it with a mournful smile on Henry's
finger, whispering as he did so :

"■ Now thou indeed art king ! " and, exhausted by the effort, he
fell back into the arms of those who were near him — a corpse. The
young queen and her aunt, the aged abbess Christina, sank upon
their knees and offered up their prayers for the dead.

This is indeed a precious gift," said Henry, pointing to the
ring and addressing the archbishop. " The good monk hath been
its faithful guardian. He was a holy man," he added : " he
foretold our succession to the crown — our marriage with Matilda.
Bury him, my lord, like a prophet and a saint."

Bury him like a king," replied the primate, " for such, in truth,
he was."

A king ! " repeated Henry and the nobles who were near.

A king," iterated Anselm. " God hath miraculously prolonged
his days beyond the usual span. But I repeat, the voice which all
heard pronounce upon our monarch and his queen the nuptial
benediction was the voice of Harold the Saxon king, so long
thought slain upon the field of Hastings. Peace to his memory —
honour to the brave and the unfortunate ! "

This strange discovery accounted for the interest the monk had
taken in the marriage of Henry and Matilda, It was afterwards
fully confirmed by documents left by the preceding abbot of
Croydon, to whom the defeated monarch, immediately after the
battle of Hastings, had made himself known, and by whose advice
he had devoted himself to the Church.

The obsequies of the aged prince were privately, but regally,
celebrated by night, in the church where he had resigned his latest
breath, his last resting place being at the foot of the holy
Confessor's tomb, and known but to the few who assisted at his
interment, and to whom the secret was confided.

Immediately after the marriage of Henry, Ulrick returned to
Cranfield. All hope of throwing off the yoke of the Norman race
was abandoned on the union of the princess Matilda, whom the
people loved for her charities and many virtues, as well as for her
Saxon descent, and prayed that she might be the mother of a race
of monarchs to succeed her — a prayer destined to disappointment,
as she died without issue many' years before Henry, who, soon after
her death, married again, in the hopes of an heir, but was equally
doomed to hope in vain.

Ethra, Ulrick's eldest-born, was at the age of sixteen a tall,
graceful, capricious, wayward girl ; in her Madonna-like beauty
she more resembled her grandmother, the once beautiful Edith,
than either her father or Matilda. From her earliest childhood she
had betrayed a strange passion for solitude, and frequently had
alarmed her anxious parents and terrified her attendants by escaping
from them to bury herself in the deepest recesses of the surrounding
forests, where the distracted Ulrick had, on more than one
occasion, found her seated by some babbling brook, singing to the
murmuring waters, or couched, like a young fawn, within a mossy
dell or flowery nook, weaving wild garlands of the simple flowers
which grew around her. The sight of her innocent amusement
and infantine beauty would arrest the reproof upon her father's
lips. How was it possible to scold the fairy being whose musical
laugh at the sight of him rang through the woodland glade ?
Ofttimes the words of anger were checked by a shower of kisses ;
for, despite her wild temper and strange taste for solitude, she
loved her father with all the deep affection of her thoughtful
nature ; her heart clung to his as the graceful ivy clings around
the majestic oak. She was proud of his courage and manly
strength — proud of his fame, and the devotion of the Saxon race,
who looked upon him as their protector — proud that he was her
father.

Finding it impossible to restrain this peculiar disposition in his
child, Ulrick resolved, as far as possible, to provide for her safety ;
for which purpose he trained two young bloodhounds, who
gradually became so much attached to their fairy charge that they
followed her in all her wanderings, stopped when she stayed,
guarded her whilst she slept, and, with the wonderful instinct of
their nature, permitted no one who was a stranger on the domain
to approach her person. Ethra loved her savage, wild companions ;
for savage they truly were to all but her. Often, in sport, would
she try to baffle their peculiar powers of tracking out those they
sought, by concealing herself within the cleft of a rock, or climbing
into the leafy branches of some lofty tree. The faithful animals
seemed to understand and enjoy the sport. Aided by their
exquisite scent, they invariably found her, and bayed with joy at
the discovery. Some of the aged servants of the household
predicted that no good could possibly arise from this strange
companionship ; and the old chaplain remembered a prophecy said
to have been written by a former lord of Cranfield, which ran

thus :

Woe to our house, when the maiden and hound
A home in the halls of the stranger hath found ;
The raven and owl shall inhabit it then,
And the wolf and the fox make its turrets their den.

Our hero, although far from superstitious, could not avoid being

struck by the singularity of the prediction, which he commanded
to be carefully concealed from his wife, threatening with his severe
displeasure any who should reveal it to her — a prohibition which
caused the domestics but to repeat it the more frequently amongst
themselves, till at last they became persuaded that their young
mistress was the being whose evil fortune was to bring the long-predicted
desolation upon the house of her fathers. They shook
their heads ominously when the maiden and her dogs passed by
them, and not infrequently signed the cross, or dropped a bead to
Heaven for her safety ; for, strange and capricious as was her
disposition, all who knew. her felt themselves impelled to love
her.

It was on a fine morning in September that the young heiress,
clad in her simple dress of white, crossed the drawbridge, attended
by her faithful followers, Thor and Woden ; for so they had been
named, in honour of their pure Saxon blood. The warder shook
his head as they passed him, and whispered to the seneschal his
fears that the dreaded prediction was not far from its fulfilment — a
confidence which the officer returned by informing him that death-lights
had been seen in the chapel, a sure sign of misfortune to
their master's race. The deep bay of the bloodhounds, and the
joyous laugh of their charge, were soon lost in the recesses of the
forest into which they plunged. Their cry startled the timid fawn
from its secret lair and roused the antlered stag to direct its flight
far from the nut-brown woods of Cranfield. The thoughtless,
happy girl was making her way through the intricacies of the
underwood — now recalling the dogs from the scent of the flying
deer, now urging them on — when the animals suddenly uttered a
deep growl, and darted down a narrow path which led to a
fountain known by the name of the Druid's Well. Ethra immediately
followed, fearful lest her companions, so ferocious to all but
her, should attack some traveller, or peasant hastening to his
labours. On reaching the spot she discovered the hounds both
crouching, as if to spring upon an aged woman, who had evidently
climbed the low projecting rock on which she .stood for safety.
Although dressed in mean attire, there was an air of dignity in her
manner which struck the beholder with respect. Her foot was
firmly planted, and a sort of staff, with a long knife at the end,
such as might be used for cutting water plants, was grasped in her
right hand, ready to strike her assailants in case they should
approach her.

Down, Woden — down, Thor ! " cried the maiden, rushing
between the excited dogs and the object of their attack ; " down, I
say ! Do not fear, good mother," she added ; " they are obedient
to my voice, and will not harm you."

Do I look as if I feared them ? " exclaimed the woman, in a
harsh voice. " It is long, very long, since I feared aught of earth.

and I might add of Leaven ; the first can take from me nothing
but life, and the latter is too merciful to harm me."

The Avoman descended as she spoke, and fixed a curious glance
upon the fair girl who had so opportunely appeared to rescue her ;
for, despite her weapon and the courage with which she might
have used it, the two dogs, who lay whining and crouching at
their mistress's feet, would doubtless have torn her in pieces but
for her interference.

You are a stranger, mother, in these parts," said the maiden,
meeting her glance with a look as bold and searching as her own.
If you have lost your way, I will guide you ; if you are in
distress, follow me to the castle, and I will relieve you. One good,
at least, results from nip isti-ange wandering propensities — they lead
me frequently to the succour of my fellow-creatures."

Thou art, then, the daughter of Ulrick of Cranfield," exclaimed
the woman ; " she whom the superstitious peasants call the Forest
Fairy ? Thy beauty well deserves the name — thy goodness even
more so than thy beauty. Farewell ! I have no need of human
guidance — human help. I dare not longer stay, lest, as I gaze
upon thee, and read thy fate, my heart should feel once more the
throb of sympathy and pity."

And what wall be my fate ? " demanded Ethra, whose curiosity
was excited, but not her fears.

Canst thou bear to listen to it ? " said the stranger, peering
at her from beneath her bushy brows.

I can bear much," answered the maiden, proudly. " Armed
in my innocence, I have never yet experienced fear, though
I have passed the lone hours in the forest, and marked the
lengthening shadows creep silently upon my path — have felt the
lightning's kiss upon my cheek, yet hath it never harmed me.
"While innocent, I laugh at fear."

But when innocence hath left* thee ! " interrupted the woman,
with a bitter laugh.

I first must cease to be," replied Ethra, with offended dignity ;
thou rarest of things impossible, good mother."

I thought so once," shrieked the hag ; " but, like thee, I was
deceived. Hear me, proud daughter of a still prouder line. Thou
hast asked to know thy fate, and I will not deny thee. Thou shalt
love and be beloved, be won and scorned, be injured and avenged.
Thou art in the toils : fly as thou wilt, thou canst not escape thy
doom ; for there is one upon thy track who never yet spared
woman in his lust, or man in his revenge. Farewell ! Perchance,
when thy fate shall be accomplished, we may meet again."

The speaker had no sooner concluded her prediction than she
plunged into the thick underwood which grew around the borders
of the well, and disappeared ere the astonished Ethra could detain
her. The two dogs, who had watched her with suspicion, sprang



forward, and would have followed her, had not their mistress
once more restrained them. The affectionate brutes looked
wistfully into her face, as if to ask the reason why she forbad them
to follow the instinct of their nature, which told them the object
of their fury was dangerous to their mistress's happiness and peace.

She is mad ! " exclaimed the maiden, seating herself close to
the well ; " and I were as mad as she is to heed her strange
predictions. I mxxst keep more at home, and check this rambling
disposition, fitting the daughter of some village serf, but not the
heiress of the lord of Cranfield."

Whilst thus seated indulging in her many fancies, her eye was
attracted by a water-lily which floated on the well, almost within
reach of her arm from the projecting piece of rock on which she
sat. Bending to secure the flower, whose beauty pleased her, the
maiden overbalanced herself and fell. The pool was deep and
dangerous ; and despite she efforts of her faithful hounds, who
leaped in and supported her, she must have perished but for the
arrival of a stranger, who, seeing that the dogs were incapable of
dragging their burden over the species of natural parapet formed
by the rock, hastened to assist them by leaning over the water
fire the barrier was lowest. The sagacious animals swam with
their inanimate mistress directly towards him. Catching her by
the arm, he drew her forth, and, laying the insensible form upon
the grass, busily occupied himself in endeavouring to restore her.
Relieved from the weight which they had for a considerable time
sustained, Woden and Thor soon contrived to release themselves
from their watery prison by leaping over the rock. Jealous, as
they generally were, of the approach of strangers near their charge,
they seemed to feel that in the present crisis he was a friend, and
they aided the exertions of the young hunter — for such the
preserver of Ethra, by his costume, seemed to be — by licking the
hands and face of the inanimate girl, occasionally howling piteously
in evidence of their distress.

After chafing her hands and forehead for a considerable time the
yoiing man applied a small silver flask to her lips ; and observed
with pleasure, after swallowing a few drops of the rich cordial it
contained, that the object of his care heaved a deep sigh, and half-opened
her eyes, which, overcome with languor, she immediately
closed again.

How beautiful ! "exclaimed the stranger, gazing upon her with
sudden and passionate admiration ; " could I, ere life returns,
snatch from her lips one kiss, memory should treasure it with
those golden hours which, like the oases in the desert, cheer life's
pilgrim on his dreary way."

Ardent as was the speaker's admiration of beauty, and reckless
as were the means by which he gratified it, the very helplessness
of Ethra protected her from further outrage than the burning kiss

Z 2

which he imprinted on her lips, and which many of my fair
readers may feel inclined to think he had fairly earned by the
service he had rendered in dragging her out of the water — only it
was not quite generous to pay himself ; one kiss bestowed is worth
a thousand stolen ones.

The impression upon the still, half-conscious girl was electrical ;
a tremulous agitation ran through every limb , and a faint blush
instantly suffused her features.

Where am I ? " she murmured.

In safety, lady," replied her preserver — " guarded by one who
would give his worthless life a thousand times ere danger should
approach you, or sorrow blight one smile upon thy brow. But tell
me," he added — for he had noticed the golden girdle and bracelets,
the badges of her high rank — " whom have I had the happiness of
serving .? "

I am the daughter of the lord of Cranfield," said the maiden,
casting down her eyes, for she felt uneasy beneath his gaze.

Had she seen the frown upon the inquirer's brow, as she
announced her lineage, Ethra might have been spared the long
corroding sorrow of after years — for it was a frown of bitterest,
deepest hate, black as a thunder-cloud, but transient as the
lightning's flash. Recovering himself, he demanded in the same
bland voice :

And you have lost your attendants in the forest ? "

These are my attendants," replied Ethra, with a blush, as, for
the first time, the impropriety of her rambling disposition was
forced upon her. " Thor and Woden are faithful guardians ;
besides," she added, " on our own domain, surrounded by the serfs
and vassals of our louise, what should I have to fear ? "

Fear ! " exclaimed the hunter ; " who that wears human form
could harm thee ? No, lady, thou art as safe within the forest
shade as within thy father's halls : thy beauty and thy innocence
protect thee."

Ethra started from the bank upon which the stranger had placed
her ; the word innocence had recalled to her mind the hag's
prediction. She felt, she knew not why, that it would be wiser to
end the scene at once. Gracefully thanking him for the service he
had rendered her, she asked him his name, that her father might
know whom to thank for the preservation of his child.

My name," said the young man, with well-acted humility, " is
too obscure to dwell upon the lord of Cranfield's memory ; nor is it
from his hands I seek reward. One thought of the wandering
hunter, lady, when you pass this spot, one kind recollection of his
services, and they are over-paid,"

Gracefully bending the knee, he kissed the hand which the
maiden extended to him, and disappeared up the winding
pathway which conducted from the dell.

Ethra remained for several minutes fixed to the spot, absorbed in
her reflections ; the kiss which the bold stranger had impressed
upon her lips when he thought her insensible shocked her delicacy,
but haunted her imagination ; the deep but respectful admiration
with which he regarded her, the service he had rendered her, all
created in her heart an interest for the stranger dangerous to her
peace.

I wonder," she whispered to herself, as slowly she directed her
way from the Druid's Well, " if ever we shall meet again. I fear
that he will think me ungrateful, for I but coldly thanked
him."

It was in this pensive mood that Ethra arrived at Cranfield, On ■
her way the gambols of her faithful companions had been unheeded,
or repressed with an impatient word. With a light step, she
regained her chamber, and changed her still soiled, damp dress,
for fresh attire. Resolving to conceal her adventure from her
parents, the excuse for so doing was the fear of distressing them by
an account of the danger she had run ; the reason must be sought
in those instincts with which love baffles the wisdom of experience.
Ethra already contemplated meeting with the preserver of
her life again ; the relation of her adventure might prevent it, and
hence her silence. I need not inform my readers that already the
maiden loved.

It was not long before the meeting of Ethra and her lover — for
such the stranger soon became — was an event of daily occurrence.
It were needless to repeat the arguments by which he won from
his destined victim the promise of concealment of their passion ;
persuasion is sweet from the lips of those we love, and the young
heiress was, despite her high birth, but a mere child of nature.
What to her were the distinctions of rank or country in the being
to whom she had given her affections ? His land became her land,
his God became her God. Once, and once only, she had pressed
him for his name — the reply struck horror to her heart.

Ask it not, dearest ; it is proscribed in the halls of Cranfield.
Sooner would thy proud father see thee dead than the bride of
thy Norman lover. He hates alike my name and lineage"'

You wrong him," exclaimed Ethra, weeping — " I am sure you
wrong him. Ulrick hates none but the cruel and depraved. Is
not my mother, too, of Norman blood .'' And think you he woidd
hate the race from which she springs ? Of all your countrymen, I
know but one of whom he speaks with anger or disdain."

'• And that one ? " demanded the stranger.

Is Ralph de Gael, the cruel constable of the king within the
Angles. Men say he hath a demon's heart shrine in a glorious
form.' His name is famed for cruelties. How many outraged
maidens mourn the hour he ever crossed their path ! how many
desolated homes hath not his fierce vengeance made ! " •

"And yet," observed her lover, with a peculiar smile, "you do
not seem to fear him."

I," replied the maiden, " am too high a mark for his fierce,
lawless passion. He fears as well as hates my father, whose
influence with the people would raise a storm to overwhelm him,
should he dare to lift his eyes to a daughter of his house. Besides,"
she added, " I have never seen him."

It were useless to follow the subtle windings by Which Ralph de
Gael — for the stranger was no other than the dreaded Norman —
entwined himself like a venomous snake around the pure heart of
the fair girl, whom, from the first moment he beheld her, he
destined to become his victim. "With a refinement of Wickedness,
he resolved not only that her love should lead her to abandon her
home, but that it should be made the means of destruction upon
those she left behind. Of all the nobles in the Angles, Ulrick
alone had dared to brave his tyranny, and protect the weaker
vavasor and merchants from his exactions ; he had even on
more than one occasion appealed from his decision to the king,
who, anxious to conciliate the support of one so powerful with his
nation as our hero, had done prompt justice to his complaint :
hence the bitter hatred which the unworthy tyrant felt ; and the
triumph of inflicting a death-blow to the happiness of the man he
feared was dearer to him than eve«a the gratification of his selfish
passion.

By degrees he led the wretched girl to contemplate the crime, at
which at first she shuddered, with a lenient eye, and finally to
consent to abandon her home to become his wife ; trusting, as
many have trusted, to the honour of a villain, and to time and
natural affection, to reconcile her offended parents to her choice.
Could she have seen the real aim of the monster's project, she
would have shrunk with horror from his words as from a demon's
whisper ; but the poison was veiled by flowers, and the unwary
victim fell.

Cranfield, like most of the mansions of the time, was well
fortified and guarded — prepared to resist every attack from open
force, and only to be taken by treachery or surprise. At sunset,
the drawbridge was every evening regularly raised, nor ever
permitted to be lowered, except by the command of the lord of the
hold himself. The most accessible part of the hall was at the back,
near the chapel, where a small postern, which was never fastened
till a late hour, gave ingress to the building. Persuaded by the
treacherous Ralph, Ethra, whose feelings had been worked on by
his tears and despair, whose enthusiastic nature had lent itself to
the excitement of the life of love and happiness which in glowing
colours his eloquent tongue depicted, consented to secure the keys
and fiy with him. The night was fixed for the event ; he promised
to come alojae : we shall see how the false craven kept his word.

The last light had long disappeared from the towers of the hall,
and every inmate save one retired to rest, when a party of men
were seen to steal one by one from the neighbouring forest, and
approach the moat at the back of the hall. Four of them launched
a small boat, which they carried with them, upon the stream ; and
their leader, clad no longer in his hunting garb, but cased in
knightly steel, entered the frail bark, and directed it towards the
fatal postern where the unhappy Ethra had promised to await him.
Finding the postern open, he beckoned to two of his followers to
pass over before he penetrated into the interior in order to seek his
victim. Cautiously he traversed the great hall, attended by his
minions, whom he directed to lower the drawbridge and admit the
rest of his destroying band.

Scarcely was the order accomplished, when Ethra, who, with a
touch of her better nature, had lingered to kiss her sleeping sister,
and breathe a parting prayer at the door which led to her mother's
chamber, descended the great staircase and entered the apartment.
The villain flew to meet her and enfold her in his serpent embrace.

What means these men ? " whispered the trembling girl, terror-struck
at the sight of a numerous band in possession of her ancient
home. " What do they here ? — hast thou deceived me ? "

They are here to protect our flight. Come," urged the
impatient tyrant, " time is too precious to be lost. Should thy
father wake, blood might be shed — the blood of him thou lowest —
and all our hopes destroyed."

At this moment one of the men who had been stationed at the
bridge entered the hall, and addressing Ralph de Gael by his title,
told him to decide quickly, for that a light had been seen in one of
the turrets, and that doubtless some of the inmates were alarmed.

Ralph de Gael ! " shrieked the unhappy girl ; " then I am lost !
Hear me," she added, sinking on her knees : " let me be the only
victim — trample on my heart — satiate thy hatred in my tears ; but
spare the authors of my being — spare my innocent sister. God ! "
she continued, convulsively, " betrayed, and through me ! "

Without a word the triumphant tyrant seized her in his arms,
and giving her to his esquire, told him to remove her from the
scene — san order which, despite her shrieks and struggles, he was
preparing to obey, when the frantic girl burst from him, and
seizing the cord which communicated with the alarm-bell, rang a
peal which startled the unconscious sleepers from their rest.

Monsters ! " she cried, " they shall not be butchered in their
sleep. Ho ! Ulrick, to the rescue ! — arm, arm ! — tha foe, the foe !
The Norman is upon us ! "

Curses upon her fury ! " exclaimed Ralph, seizing her a second
time, and placing her in the hands of a party of his men, who this
time succeeded in bearing her over the drawbridge ; " away with
her. Now, then," he added to his men, as the sound of their

■ horses' hoofs assured him he was obeyed, " fire the castle ; fire it
on every side ; let not one escape to tell the tale of Ralph de Gael's
Vengeance."

The alarm which Ethra in her despair had sounded unfortunately
came too late. As fast as the men-at-arms descended they were
butchered by their cowardly assailants, who from their place of
ambush shot them ose at their ease. Ulrick raged like a lion from
tower to tower ; every step of ground his enemies gained upon
him was bought with blood. His position was a fearful one. A
sea of flames — for the enormous oaken rafters of the hall had taken
fire — waved over his head ; and the shrieks of the women, mingled
with the groans of the wounded and dying, added to the horror of
the scene. Our unhappy hero was fiercely contending with Ralph
de Gael and two of his esquires, when the voice of Matilda fell
upon his ear. With a cry of agony, which burst from the deepest
recess of his heart, he cast away his sword, and rushed up the
burning staircase. The father and the husband only lived within
him — the warrior was extinct. As he reached the corridor, which
led to his mother and Matilda's apartment, a burning mass of wood
and stone fell from the ceiling, and barred his further passage.
Vainly, with his naked hands, he tossed the blazing beams aside,
till the seared flesh fell from his fingers. The barrier was too solid
to be removed by his single strength, and the wretched man heard
the last shrieks of his adored wife and mother as the crumbling
roof fell with the crash of thunder upon that part of the building
where they slept. Ulrick, in his despair, would have leaped into
the blazing gulf, and shared in the destruction of those most dear
to him, had not a new interest in life been suddenly awakened.
His youngest child, the lovely Myrra, a girl about eight years old,
had, in the first terror of the alarm, hastened from the chamber
where she slept, and thus escaped the fearful death of her mother
and the Countess Edith. To raise her in his arms, to clasp her to
his aching breast, was the impulse of an instant ; he felt that,
wretched as he was, life had still one tie for which he wished to
live ; and catching up a blazing brand, he directed his steps to the
chapel, from whence a vaulted passage, could he but once obtain
the entrance to it, conducted to a place of safety. As a son, a
parent, and a husband, our hero had been sufficiently tried that
night ; and Heaven, which had permitted the crimes of that
fearful hour for its own wise purposes, preserved him to avenge
them. The fugitive, with his weeping burden, reached the place
of concealment in silence and in safety, when the last tower of the
once stately hold of Cranfield had fallen a prey to the devouring
flames, and nothing remained of the abode of hospitality and virtue
but a smouldering mass of ruin.

Ralph de Gael, attended by his followers loaded with plunder,
returned to Norwich. Good men cursed them on their way, and

even the lawless and the vicious thanked Heaven that their souls
at least were free from such a deed. The rage and indignation of
the Saxon nobles was deep and loud ; but, in losing Ulrick,
unfortunately', they had lost the only' leader upon whom they could
rely. The triumphant oppressor loudly proclaimed that he had
proofs of a meditated rebellion in his hands — called upon the
Norman barons to join him with their vassals, provisioned his
strong hold, Norwich Castle — a fortress almost impregnable before
the invention of artillery — and prepared to act vigorously upon the
defensive. Thus weeks and even months passed away, and Ulrick's
most ardent friends, who all believed him dead, agreed to await
the return of the king from Normandy, whither he had gone to
invade the duchy of his gallant but unfortunate brother.

It was long, very long, ere the unhappy Ethra, whose existence
her betrayer carefully guarded as a secret from all, recovered from
the raging fever into which the events of that fearful night had
plunged her. Youth and care ultimately prevailed, and the poor
girl, the shadow of her former self, v>'as at last pronounced free
fi'om danger ; it is true, that with time her health, and even the
beauty for which she had been remarkable, gradually returned,
but her mind remained partially obscured, nor was it till years
afterwards that it recovered the full vigour and energy of its early
tone. Weakened, as she was, in spirit as well as body — friendless,
and in the power of an unprincipled villain, whom, despite his
crimes, she still loved — those who know the human heart will
wonder little that Ethra, won by his prayers and tears, his oaths of
penitence and eternal love, consented to become his in the presence
of a few friends in whom he could confide. The marriage rites
were celebrated. It was neither to her birth nor virtues the
unhappy girl was indebted for the consideration which made her
his wife instead of mistress, but to his thirst for her possessions.
The heiress of Cranfield vas too rich a prize to be permitted to
escape him, or to be obtained by other means than marriage.

The wedding feast was cold and solitary, as Ralph and his chosen
friends caroused in the great hall of the castle. The golden cup
was in his hands as he was about to pledge his guests. The
pride of successful villainy flashed in his eye, and seemed to say,
"World ! I may brave thee now ; " when a herald, wearing the
Royal arms upon his vest, entered his presence unannounced, and
summoned him in the name of his liege lord to appear before his
Court in ten days to answer for the crimes of murder and treason.

And who is my accuser ? " he demanded, with a haughty
smile.

Ulrick of Cranfield," replied the herald in a solemn voice.

The cup fell from the villain's hand untasted, and the unhappy
Ethra was borne senseless to her chamber.

CHAPTER XXII.

After the unhappy lord of Cranfield the most powerful chief of
the Angles was Arad, a noble whose large possessions and high
military reputation gave him a merited influence with the warlike
and still but half-subdued Saxon race. To him, as to his surest
friend, Ulrick fled on the destruction of his once happy home, and
was, with his infant Myrra — the only living pledge, as he believed,
of his Matilda's love — secretly received and sheltered until the
raging fever, brought on by bodily as well as mental suffering,
yielded to time and the devoted care by which he was surrounded.
All but his host believed him dead. The poor wept for him, the
good lamented him, and none but the wicked triumphed in his fall.
The generous Arad felt the wrongs of the suffering man as keenly
as though the brand of the Norman savage had desolated his own
hearth ; and in the indignation of his honest nature would have
summoned his countrymen to arms to avenge them, had not the
precautions of the tyrant in proclaiming the pretended conspiracy,
and calling upon the grout vassals of the Crown for aid, deprived
him of every chance of doing so with success. The rough nature
of the old franklin frequently melted as he listened to the wild
ravings of his guest calling with the most endearing epithets upon
his murdered wife and eldest born, and reproaching them for their
delay in coming to soothe him in his agony. At such moments
his host would bring the little Myrra, and place her in her distracted
father's arms. True to nature's instinct, even in the most
violent paroxysms of his grief Ulrick recognised his child. Comparative
calmness would gradually succeed to frenzy, and burning
tears and passionate kisses relieve his overwrought heart. Sometimes
he would rave of the monk of Croydon, who had predicted
his unhappy destiny, and adjure him by the double name of priest
and king to revoke his fearful prophecy ; demanding, with almost
infantine simplicity, what crime he had committed to merit such a
fate. As time, however, rolled on, these outbreaks of excitement
became less frequent : a calm deep melancholy succeeded to the
fever of his heart and brain, and if his tears unconsciously fell
upon his slumbering child, they were tears which soothed, and not
inflamed, his sorrows. Well was it for Ralph de Gael that the
existence of the unhappy Ethra was unsuspected beyond the limits
of his castle ; for the knowledge of her being in the hands of his
enemy would have restored to the bereaved father the energy of
action which slumbered but was not extinct. His horror and
indignation would have been like the volcano's wrath, or the
destroying angel's breath. As it was, he decided, before he
attempted to rouse his friends to arms, and plunge his beloved
country in all the miseries of civil war, to appeal to Henry's justice
for redress ; and, not till that should fail, to draw the sword to

avenge his private wrongs. As soon, therefore, as the monarch's
return from his expedition in Normandy was known, Uh'ick once
more directed his pilgrim steps towards London. How different
were his feelings from those which animated him on his first
journey ! He was then the happy husband of an adoring wife ; full
of the confidence of youth — its hopes and bright imaginings —
where were they now ? Buried in the ashes of his once peaceful
home ; extinct for ever in an unhallowed grave. As the solitary
wanderer passed along, bowed and changed by sorrow, friends and
foes, as they gazed upon his pale cheek and emaciated form,
failed to recognise the once gallant lord of Cranfield.

The result of his appeal to the king did not belie the opinion
which Ulrick had formed of Henry's gratitude to the preserver of
his life ; both the monarch and his queen listened with indignation
and interest to the story of his sorrows. A herald was
instantly despatched to Norwich to summon Ralph de Gael to
answer for his crimes before the Royal presence. The citation, as
our readers may remember, fell like a thunder-clap upon the
assassin at the impious banquet which he gave to celebrate his
nuptials with the unhappy Ethra, whose ill-requited love had been
the means of bringing desolation upon the home of her youth and
all who loved her, and whose crime was destined to be yet
fearfully' avenged.

Ralph de Gael was not a man to remain idle under the accusation
which remained suspended over him ; he was too much
accustomed to mix in the political intrigues of the day, too well
acquainted with courts and courtiers, not to know that a falling
favourite has seldom friends. Many of his countrymen had envied
him his influence with Henry, and the almost independent
command which the monarch had entrusted to him. He felt that
an instant and complete justification of the crimes he had committed
could alone prevent his fall, and he resolved to recoil from
no means, no matter how odious, to clear himself in the eyes of his
sovereign — a point only to be accomplished by forging proofs of
the pretended conspiracy of the oppressed Saxons to throw off the
yoke of their Norman masters ; for he well knew that to alarm
Henry for the security of his crown, and the nobles for the safety
of their ill-acquired possessions in England, was to assure himself
of oblivion for the past, and full indemnity for the future, for any
act of tyranny or spoliation his avarice or licentious passion might
lead him to commit.

Like most of the great religious establishments of the age, the
monks of the cathedral were celebrated for the beauty of their
illuminated manuscripts and the skill of the laborious writers,
who spent their lives in multiplying those precious works of art
which at the present day form the pride of collectors and the
glory of our libraries. Amongst the brothers the most renowned

for his skill was a certain Father Onfroy, a man whose time was
equally devoted to religion and the exercise of his pencil.
Although not many years professed, none knew his name or
country', or the reasons which had driven him from the world :
the charitable attributed his retirement to sorrows ; those who
envied his renown as an illuminator darkly hinted that it was
caused by crime — an opinion which his unsocial disposition and
reserved manner, to say nothing of the care with which on all
occasions he wore his capuchin over his features, gradually
obtained credence. His labours were incessant ; he seemed to fly
to them as to a shelter from himself, or as a penance rather than
an occupation. His hours were equally divided between prayer
and the exercise of his voluntary labour ; the only relaxation
which he permitted himself was an occasional evening walk upon
the banks of the quiet river which bounded the domain of his
convent.

Two days after the arrival of the herald at the castle the solitary
was missing. Great search was made by order of the prior and
chapter ; the stream was dragged for miles, rewards offered, but all
in vain ; before the unhappy man again saw the light of heaven
years were fated to elapse.

As my readers have doubtless surmised, Father Onfroy had been
secretly carried off, and was a prisoner in the castle, to serve the
guilty purposes of Palpi de Gael, who hesitated at no means,
however vile, which were likely to insure his safety.

Amongst the many spoils of Cranfield Hall which the midnight
marauders had carried off, was a chest of deeds, charters, and
letters, the latter chiefly in the handwriting of Ulrick, sent by him
to his anxious wife during the siege of Pevensey. These were sufficient
for the tyrant's purpose. He doubted not but that by threats
and promises he could so work upon the hopes and terrors of his
skilful prisoner, that he should forge him proofs of a conspiracy ina
writing so like to Ulrick's that even the affectionate wife to
whom the models were addressed would have pronounced them
genuine. In this, however, he calculated erroneously. Father
Onfroy rejected the proposition with indignation ; nor was it till
the torture had been twice employed that he consented to lend his
assistance to the fraud, which was to be the signal of our hero's
further ruin, :

It will not thrive with thee, Ralph de Gael ! " exclaimed the
monk, as With a trembling hand he gave hiss gaoler a list of the
materials necessary to tinge the paper, and give an appearance of
age to the forgeries ; " it will not thrive with thee. Like thee, I
have been a man of violence and blood ; but Heaven hath smitten
me, as it will smite thee in the pride of thy security, the triumph
of thy guilt. Repent ere repentance comes too late."

Under the threat of the torture, which de Gael was even obliged



to repeat, the monk at length completed his odious task, and the
proofs damning to Ulrick's fame were at last in the hands of his
bitter enemy. True, they were forgeries ; but who was to detect
them, whilst the only living witness was a captive, consigned,
despite his employer's oath to the contrary, to the deepest dungeon
of Norwich Castle ?

The morning at last dawned on which Ralph de Gael was to
meet his accuser face to face, in the presence of the king and
council. The courtiers frowned or turned their backs upon him ashe
traversed the courtyard of the Tower, where Henry held his -
court. In the certitude of his triumph, the villain met their silent
reproach with a brow as haughty as their own, for he well knew
that his safety depended not upon their favour.

Weather-cocks ! " he muttered to himself ; " in an hour you
will fawn upon the man whom now ye affect to despise, and whose
favour ye so long have envied. My safety depends upon myself,
not on such weak instruments."

With a firm step he ascended the stairs conducting to the privy
chamber, and found himself confronted with his outraged victim
and the sovereign whose confidence he had so unworthily abused.
It required all our hero's firmness to endure the presence of the
man whose crimes had widowed his heart of happiness, and made
his home a desert.

Reckless as the Norman nobles generally were in their schemes
of oppressing the unhappy Saxons, there was a point at which even
their fierce license stopped. The midnight surprise and wholesale
slaughter of Cranfield filled even their stern natures with horror ;
added to which, Matilda was of their race, the daughter of one of
the oldest of their companions in arms, related by blood to many.
And it was evident, from the cold greeting with which many
returned his salutation to the assembly, that most were disposed
against him.

We command you, Ralph de Gael," said Henry, " to answer to
a charge which, if true, will leave a stain upon the Norman name
which not your worthless blood can wipe away — to answer for
midnight robbery and murder ; for assailing, like some midnight
thief, cowardly and in disguise, the castle of a faithful subject,
giving his house to flames, his heart to desolation. Ulrick of
Cranfield," he added, turning to the accuser, " produce your charge."

All eyes wei*e turned upon our hero, who, with a countenance
flushed with emotion, and a heart lacerated by memory, related the
destruction^of his home and the loss of his wife and child. " Face
to face," he added, with an expression of scorn beneath which De
Gael writhed, " the villain dared not meet me. His craven heart,
like some vile thief's, bold only 'neath the veil of night, shrank at
the thought of manly open combat, where knightly swords, and
not the assassin's steel, decide men's quarrels. He hated too, as

well as feared me ; for my voice, as all here know, was ever raised
against his exactions and oppressions ; my home the shelter of his
victims."

Go on," said the accused, with a sarcastic sneer ; " anon I'll
answer thee."

Not for my home destroyed," resumed Ulrick, with a burst of
natural eloquence, " not for the plundered treasures of my house ;
but for those dearer treasures of the heart — those ties no wealth
can purchase or after-life renew, — for my murdered mother, fife,
and child, I call for justice on him ; I demand it in the name of
the monarch whose confidence he hath abused, and the blest spirits
whose voices long ere this have been raised against him at the bar
of Heaven. If he fails to clear himself, I demand judgment, a
felon's judgment, on his accursed head ; if he dispute my charge,
Ie knightly combat in the lists against him."

All were surprised at the cool effrontery with which Ralph de
Gael listened to the overwhelming accusation against him, and
rose to refute it. Taking a packet of letters from his bosom, he
threw them on the council-board, saying, with a haughty tone, ^
There lies my justification ; let my accuser dispute it, if he can.
For the loss of the innocents who were dear to him, I mourn ; but,
statesmen and soldiers, you, noble lords, can well understand the
stern necessity which, when the kingdom was in peril, led me to
draw the sword. Read, and be convinced."

What means the traitor ? " demanded Ulrick, whose astonishment
was only equalled by the king's.

Are these" said the wily Norman, pointing to the letters,
*' your handwriting ? "

*" Certainly," answered our hero, slightly glancing over the well
imitated superscription, " the hand is mine ; but what wouldst
thou infer from that ? "

You hear," exclaimed the triumphant villain, " he hath
acknowledged them ! Read, noble lords, the proofs of his vile
treason ; a plot to sacrifice each Norman noble in his hold — to
drive us from the land our swords have won, not by open fight,
but by assassination. The means are well contrived, the scheme is
deeply laid. Now ask me why I crushed the serpent in its very
den ; why I gave to offended Justice's sword the plotting murderers
of your wives and children. Those papers are my answer."

Ulrick, overwhelmed with horror, heard one by one the artful
forgeries read. Their author had well calculated on the interests
and passions of his judges, the most influential of whom were
singled out by name, as the first victims of the intended outbreak.
The indignation of Henry was as unbounded as his interest for
the injured Saxon had been sincere.

What answer," he demanded " makes the lord of Cranfield to
these proofs against him ? "

That they are forgeries ! " exclaimed Ulrick, recovering hie
self-possession, " mean, cowardly, forgeries. My life disproves
them ; and my sword shall wring confession from my accuser's
lips, let but the king grant the combat."

It may not be," said the chancellor, rising ; *' the Saxon already
hath avowed the writing his. What faith can be placed upon his
truth who, in the same breath, owns and disowns his acts as
interest and his safety prompts him ? The sword only may be
appealed to," he added, " where material proofs are wanting ; but
we have evidence which leaves no doubt upon the mind of
Justice — the traitor's own confession."

*' Hear me, lords," interrupted Ulrick, " not for my life —
sorrows have made it worthless ; but for my honour, that nobler
part of man which not the tomb can hold or time destroy. I
do protest my innocence. The very frankness with which I
owned those letters might have convinced you they were forgeries.
Compare my character with my accuser's. Would he who stoops
to murder shrink from lying ? Would the midnight thief hesitate
at any act, however vile, to screen his worthless life ? My own
and my outraged country's cause," he added, " might drive me to
draw the sword ; but to become an assassin, never, never. The
thought was worthy only of the fiend whose soul conceived it ;
mine scorns and rejects the cowardly accusation."

You hear him," said his accuser, with a cold, satisfied smile ;
the traitor half-avows his treason. But I have one proof more ;
a witness none will venture to dispute — one on whose testimony I
place my life and honour. Prince," he continued, in well-affected
humility, " do thou decide between us ; to thee the writing of this
man is known ; thy clerkly knowledge cannot be deceived — do
thou decide between us."

The piece of flattery was well-timed ; for Henry was vain of the
title which men already gave him of "Beauclerk," in allusion to his
skill in letters. Bending over the papers, the monarch perused
them attentively, and a shade of sorrow and regret passed over his
brow as the last fell from his hands.

On my kingly word," he exclaimed with a sigh, " I do pronounce
them real."

Enough ! " said the chancellor, a haughty Norman, devoted to
the interests of his countrymen, and, like most hackneyed statesmen,
ever ready to judge the worst of human nature. " We can no longer
hesitate ; the constable is fully justified in all that he hath done —
the Saxon is the traitor. Sire," he added in an under-tone to his
still hesitating sovereign, " no weakness now ; private friendship
must not trifle with the safety of a crown, the honour of a nation.
The culprit must to prison. Leave him to the council. The rack
may wi-king from him the confession of his crimes, the names of his
accomplices,"

Henry shuddered ; for it was not without a struggle that he
resolved to consign the preserver of his life to the tender mercies
of his nobles. Despite the apparent proofs, something whispered
him that our hero might be innocent ; but policy commanded alike
the suppression of his feelings and the concealment of his opinion.
Bowing his head in token of assent, without bestowing a parting
glance upon Ulrick, he quitted the council-chamber to inform the
queen of the unexpected turn which the accusation had taken ; for
the Saxon princess, whose influence over him was unbounded, felt
deeply for the wrongs of her outraged countryman, whose gallant
bearing had won her good opinion, and whose treachery it was
difficult to persuade, her to believe.

No ! " exclaimed the generous woman, when Henry related to
her De v^j'ael's charge, and the proofs by which he had supported
it ; " let who will pronounce him guilty, I cannot believe it.
Truth dwells on the unhappy Ulrick's tongue ; his life belies the
deed ; I would almost pledge my own that he is innocent ! "

'• Matilda," said her husband gravely, " thou judges warmly.
Thou, too, art a Saxon."

Have I loved thee less ? " replied his wife, turning her blue
eyes upon him reproachfully.

Not for an instant could the affectionate prince endure the look ;
folding his arms around her, he imprinted a kiss on her fair, open
brow, and begged, with all a lover's earnestness, to be forgiven.

I fain would think like you," he said ; " but proofs ai-e strong
against him. Were I convinced of his innocence — nay, had I buta
doubt that he is guilty — despite the council and the angry peers,
I'd interpose and save him."

And you will save him, Henry," said the queen. " You owe
him life for lis e : remember, even if guilty, he preserved yours.
What would be your remorse — your future agony and shame — if
time should prove him guiltless ? "

Perhaps," whispered the monarch, " there is a way.to save him.
We will think more of this ; and trust me, love, the Saxon Ulrick
shall not fare the worse for thy sweet prayer and good opinion of
him."

On the departure of Henry from the council-chamber the
unfortunate lord of Cranfield had been removed, by command of
the haughty chancellor, to one of the subterranean dungeons
beneath the White Tower, close to the water-passage known by the
name of the Traitor's Gate. Too proud to descend to reproaches
or entreaties — too hopeless to offer further vindication, our hero
suffered himself to be conveyed to his damp cell in silence. To
him death had no terrors ; for his heart vas already ashes, and, but
for the stain upon his name, he could have contemplated his
approaching fate, if not with joy, at least with resignation. Even
in his prison his heart beat lighter than his accuser's ; for, despite

his momentary triumph, something whispered to De Gael that
truth woiTld yet be heard ; and even while listening to the
congratulations of the courtiers who once more flocked' around him,
and the compliments of the members of the council, his spirit sank
within him. The coldness of the queen during the evening
banquet to which he was invited was remarked by all ; she
shuddered visibly as his lips pressed her reluctantly extended
hand ; and it was clear to all, however the king and nobles might
esteem his truth, that Matilda's heart was enlisted in the cause of
her unhappy countryman.

At an early hour her majesty quitted the circle, and her departure
was followed by an encouraging smile from her husband, who
remained, however, for some time after her, in deep conversation
with William de Neville, the aged Constable of the Tower, a man
whose fidelity to his prince was above all suspicion, and on whom
Henry looked as on a second father.

I'll do it, sire," whispered the old man, hesitatingly ; " but 'tis
against my judgment. Heaven grant we both repent not of it ; but
be it as you will."

As the knight concluded his remonstrance, he bowed and left
the presence. With his departure a weight seemed to be removed
from Henry's soul. Calling for a cup of wine, he drained it to the
dregs in honour of his queen, and many a gallant lip and heart
responded to the pledge.

Whilst the banquet in the great hall was at its height — for the
Tower, at the period of our tale, was both a fortress and a palace —
two persons, closely disguised, were threading the cold, damp
passages which conducted to the prison of our hero. One was the
aged Constable, to whom alone the clue was confided of the various
secret entrances and means of egress from the prison, used more frequently
for purposes of tyranny and death than freedom to the
unfortunate and innocent. His companion was the generous queen,
whose prayers and tears had won from Henry the liberty of his
prisoner.

On entering the dungeon, they found our hero sleeping on the
ground aa calmly as an infant sleeps upon its mother's breast. The
Constable was surprised, for it was not often that his captives
slept.

And can this man be guilty .' " whispered Matilda to her companion,
as she gazed upon Ulrick's placid features. Such, believe
me, is not the sleep of those whose waking thoughts are of murder
and of treason. I should like to compare the Saxon's slumbers with
those of his accuser."

'Tis hard to judge," replied the knight ; " for who can read the
heart of man ? — it is a mystery even to the angels nearest the
throne of God. He who framed alone can comprehend it. But
time presses ; morning must not dawn upon our enterprise and see

A A 2

it unaccompanied. 'Tis strange," he added, with a smile, " that
William de Neville, who bore the Conqueror's standard at Hastings,
should be aiding a Saxon to escape from Norman justice !— few
would believe it."

Say, rather," replied his companion, " aiding thy king to pay
his debt of gratitude. Ton sleeper saved his life, and all of Rolls's
race are not alike ungrateful."

Enough, 'tis Henry's will," observed the old man ; " that hath
ever been my law. What ho ! " he added, in a louder tone, " Ulrick,
sir knight, awake."

The sleeping man slowly opened his eyes, not with that sudden
start with which unquiet guilt springs from its restless couch, but
with the composure which a fearless conscience gives.

What would you ? " he exclaimed. " Hath the night passed so
soon ? Well, I am ready."

Ready for what ? " demanded the Constable, with a look of
surprise.

For aught which pleases Heaven," replied Ulrick ; "for beyond
the tortures and the cruelties with which man goads his fellows, I
behold the spirit's triumph and the freed soul's emancipation,
plains of eternal light and waving palms ; long-silent voices whisper
in mine ear, ' Welcome at last to peace.' "

To liberty as well ! " exclaimed Matilda, raising her veil. " The
path is free, the dungeon door unbarred. Away at once. Use
fortune while thou mayst."

The queen ! " said the astonished prisoner, gracefully bending
his knee ; " what errand brings an angel's presence to this dreary
dungeon ? "

To pay the debt thy grateful monarch owes — to set thee free,"
replied the generous woman ; " to preserve a father for his helpless
child, an avenger for the outraged Saxon honour."

Ulrick's natural hesitation to fly and leave a branded name
behind him was overruled by the allusion to his infant Myrra, and
the hope of one day returning to prove his innocence and avenge
his murdered race. He suffered himself, therefore, to be conducted
by the aged constable to the boat which by Henry's orders waited
at the Tower-stairs to convey him to Normandy, where he soon
afterwards joined a band of Crusaders on their march to Palestine ;
where, in knightly action under the burning sun of Syria, he
endeavoured for a while to forget the wrongs and sorrows which
drove him from his native land.

With Ulrick's disappearance the last barrier to the triumph of the
infamous Ralph de Gael was removed ; for whatever might be
Henry's secret opinion of his services, and the truth of the conspiracy
which he had alleged against the Saxons, he was too politic
to express it ; seeing that it was firmly believed by the great
Norman barons, to whom he was chiefly indebted for his crown,

and whom (such was their power) it might have been dangerous to

offend.

• • * » • «

Ten years had elapsed since our hero's departure from England,
during which period the oppression and tyranny of the worthless
governor of the Angles had risen beyond human forbearance. The
eyes of the suffering people, vavasor and franklins, were, in the
absence of Ulrick, all turned towards Arad, whose watchful
prudence had hitherto defeated every attempt to surprise or to
subdue him. Men's minds were in this unsettled state when it
became gradually whispered that midnight assemblies were being
held on Monkshold Heath, and in the Druid's cave at Whitlingham,
in which many of the inhabitants of the city joined. These
rumours were not long in reaching the ears of the suspicious
Ralph, whose spies were everywhere, and he provisioned the
stronghold of Norwich Castle in expectation of the approaching
outbreak.

Amongst the few national festivals which the oppressed Saxons
still continued to celebrate was the anniversary of St. Edward, on
which occasion the elder nobles met to exchange the courtesies of
life, and the younger ones and commons to indulge in knightly
sports, archery, vvT:'estling, and quarter-staff — exercises in which
few peoples could excel them. Arad, attended by a more numerous
train than usual, was one of the last to reach the heath where the
assembly was held. The spot marked out was an undulating plain
broken by hills, now forming part of the inclosed lands of Thorpe,
extending from the chapel of St. William in the wood down to the
river's bank. The arrival of the man whom the oppressed S>^.;x:ons
looked upon as their leader was hailed with shouts of joy, and
Long live the valiant Arad," and " Success to the Lord of Ormsby,"
echoed far and near.

The aged chief was attended by his only son and heir Edward,
and his nephew Ethwold of the Each, a young man to whom he
had been guardian.

It was observed that the young men were unremitting in their
attentions to a fair girl who rode in the midst of the train, and who
was received by the more aged Saxons with tokens of affection and
respect. The maiden was no other than Myrra, who, from the
period of her father's exile, had shared the home and paternal love
of Arad, and whom rumour had long since assigned as the destined
bride of either his son or nephew, for both the young men loved
her, and hence the looks of jealous rivalry which occasionally
passed between them ; but the open-hearted, generous Edward was
evidently the favoured lover. A shade of sadness passed over the
features of the exile's daughter as she returned the greetings of her
friends, for to her the projected outbreak was no secret, and she
knew not how soon the home of her adoption might be made a

desert, and the friends who had protected her reduced, like her
gallant father, to misery and exile.

As the day proceeded, the people noted with great satisfaction
that one by one their leaders slowly retired to the depths of the
wood which skirted the place of their assembly, to deliberate, they
fondly trusted, on the means of redressing the wrongs beneath
which they groaned, and throwing off a yoke as humiliating as it
was burthensome to them. Let it not be imagined that all the
nobles and franklins who were present at what might not inappropriately
be called the council of the Angles were unanimous in
their views. Some were restrained by their doubts of success, or
the more worldly consideration of personal security ; others were
content to live on any terms, however vile or degrading.

Considerable uneasiness existed amongst the wavering and timid
at the presence of a tall war-worn pilgrim, who stood by Arad's
side, and to whom alone, of all the assembly, he seemed personally
known. The red cross on his shoulder denoted he had served in
Palestine ; and the golden spurs upon his heels vouched for his
knightly rank. Some whispered that he was a spy, a supposition
instantly rejected by those who gazed upon his gallant bearing, and
the evident recognition of him by their brother nobles.

The business of the day was opened by Arad, who, in a speech
replete with energy, drew their attention to the condition of their
unhappy country, to the continued oppressions of Ralph de Gael,
and the little hope of redress at the hands of the monarch, who,
since the death of his Saxon queen, Matilda, had given himself
entirely up to his Norman ministers and councillors, "Are we,"
continued the aged chief, " once more to draw the sword for Saxon
independence, or yield our necks, without one further effort, to the
debasing yoke our masters place upon us ? Shall we decide to live
as freemen, or to die as slaves ? "

There was a pause. The assembly felt the importance of the
reply they were called upon to make, and remained silent. Ethwold
of the Hath, the speaker's nephew, was the first to break it. Though
not naturally a coward, he was selfish. Hitherto the brand of the
Conqueror had not assailed his hearth — added to which, the importance
which his rival cousin would obtain in Myrra's eyes,
should the insurrection prove successful, at once determined him.
Briefly and confidently he spoke of the hopelessness, the madness
of the attempt, and called upon the meeting to disperse, ere the
knowledge of their designs should give their rulers fresh pretext
for further spoliation.

With a triumphant smile Ethwold remarked the effect his speech
produced. Many of the vavasor and petty nobles were retiring,
when the deep-toned voice of the pilgrim arrested their ignoble
purpose.

Men I " he exclaimed, dashing into the midst of them. " Can

ye be men, and tamely thus resign all chance of freedom ? Are ye
so debased, ye cast the sword aside and kiss your chains ? Prove
yourselves Avorthy of your fathers' fame, and free your daughters
from the Norman's lust. Your future sons, drawing the love of
freedom from their mothers' breasts, nobly shall defend the rights
their fathers bled to win, the stream of life with "nobler impulse
beat, and one brave deed regenerate our race."

Few as were the impassioned words of the speaker, they found
an echo in the hearts even of those who wavered. Men crowded
around him — the young with enthusiasm, the old in admiration.
But Ethwold was not a man to be easily silenced : he was one of
those who, if not eloquent, at least are plausible.

Who is this stranger," he demanded, " who takes upon him to
give lessons unto men and nobles ? Beware," he added, " lest this
seeming zeal should hide a traitor."

Traitor ! " repeated the pilgrim. " England ! my own, my
father's land, have I for thee wandered o'er Asia's burning sands,
or froze amid the horrors of the North, thus to be branded with
traitor's name ? Hear me, Saxons," he continued, " 'tis not the
first time ye have hung upon my words, or followed my broad
pennon to the field. Exiled for freedom and my country's rights,
for years I wandered 'neath a burning sun, yet felt it not — the fire
was in my brain ; oft o'er the pathless deserts of the East my steps
have strayed — the simoom harmed me not ; in storm, in danger, in
the battle's heat, I courted death in vain. Once, when Despair
usurped fair Reason's throne, I gained the craggy mountain's topmost
height, and would have plunged into the abyss beneath, but at
that moment some spirit whispered ' England might be free ! ' My
heart, my sword, were all my country's claim, and Ulrick would
not rob her of her right."

The shout of the astonished Saxons at the announcement of their
banished hero's name rang far and wide. Many a gallant heart
beat with admiration at the sight of him, and eager hands were
stretched to welcome him. In the midst of their enthusiasm,
however, a voice was heard at whose sound all gave way. The
youthful Myrra had heard her father's name. Gliding like a spirit
©f light and beauty through the circle which surrounded him, she
sank upon her knees, her voice shaking with emotion : all she could
find strength to utter was :

Your blessing — your blessing, father — for your long-parted
child."

As the stern warrior gazed upon the kueoliug seraph at his feet,
the thoughts of other days and other ties caine over him. Placing
his hand upon her head, he answered, while tears coursed each
other down his manly cheek :

Sweet as the dew which fell on Israel's race vny blessing rest
upon thee, thou only blossom of my marriage bed the hand of

tyranny bath spared me. Look on her, chiefs," he added, addressing
the franklins, who had respectfully drawn back not to intrude upon
so sacred a meeting ; " say, should a form like this give birth to
slaves ? should beauties rare as these become the Norman's prey ?
Here, on the hills where free your father's trod, I call upon you,
in the sacred name of freedom — call you to burst wide your bonds
cast back to earth the fetters which enthral you — renounce the
oppressor's yoke, and rise erect and free as God and nature's
chartered laws have made you."

One wild enthusiastic cry for liberty was the result of the appeal ;
men drew their s .words, and swore no longer to hold their lives
at their masters' pleasures ; even Ethwold, carried away by the
feelings of the moment, joined in the shout for war.

Noble Ulrick," he exclaimed, " forgive me. I knew not the
nature my suspicions wronged. Let Myrra's hand become the pledge
of amity between us ; my fortune and my friends will then be
thine ; my vassals know no other leader, my inexperienced years
no other guide,"

It needed not the pale cheek of Myrra, or the ill-suppressed
indignation of the youthful Edward, whose imploring eyes were
fixed on Ulrick, to induce his generous nature how to decide.
Drawing the trembling girl yet nearer to his heart, as if to shield
her even from the outrage of such a proposition, her father
answered with a bitterness and scorn to which in other years his
I lips were strangers :

Yield her to thee ! Consign her pure and spotless to thy arms !
Rather would I strike her to my feet ! rather behold her perish in
i the pile in which her sister fell, than yield her beauties to a willing
slave ! Go," he added, with an expression of, if possible, increased
contempt, — " go, count thy gold, and view thy hoards increase !
Breed sons to swell thy Norman master's train, and daughters to be
victims of their lust ! Go, live securely, but thy nation's scorn ! "

Slowly, and with a look of unutterable hate, Ethwold withdrew
from the assembly, the eyes of which were turned reproachfully
upon him. Curses were on his lip, yet he spake them not. Revenge,
like a vulture, was gnawing at his heart ; and he resolved,
even at the sacrifice of those who shared his blood, it should be
gratified.

The same day saw him closeted with Ralph de Gael, to whom,
however, with the usual cunning of his nature, he only half confided
the danger which threatened him : spoke of the meditated
rising of the Saxons ; but forbore to name Ulrick as their chief,
promising, however, to deliver him into the hands of a party of
his men, provided he might retain his daughter as his sole reward.
The double traitor was in some degree forced to this ; for, without
the aid of the Norman soldiers, he knew it v.^otild be impossible to
complete the outrage he meditated, as he well knew no Saxon could

be found to lay a hand upon the lord of Cranfield — such was the
influence of his name — the love which his gallant fame and devotion
to his country had inspired. The compact was accepted, the
necessary force placed at his disposal, and Ethwold retired from
the castle bound to the bidding of his master like a worthless
hound .

The name of Ulrick, and the shouts which welcomed it, spread
far and near amongst the excited Saxons. The games were rapidly
broken up, and the serfs and peasants burst in upon the circle
hitherto reserved for their masters ; all were eager once more to
gaze upon the man whose name had been the watchword of their
youth, whose arm the protection of their homes, and whose
memory in their grateful hearts had survived even his services.
In the enthusiasm of the moment all distinction of rank was forgotten,
and it became necessary, men were so mingled together, for
the leaders to retire to mature their plans ere the news of Ulrick's
return should be noised abroad — a secret which, after the public
recognition of his person, could not be long concealed. In the
hurried council which followed, it was decided that the exile
should at once proceed to Cranfield to raise the ancient vassals of
his house, who, writhing under the exactions of their new master,
would rise to a man, and strike for their ancient lord and freedom.

That very evening, near the old cross where the road divided
from Comtesse to Wynmondham, an aged woman, leaning on an
oaken staff, might have been seen watching the setting sun, whose
last rays kissed the graceful spire of she cathedral, and crowned
with a flood of golden light its splendid pinnacles ; her quick,
restless eye was directed to a copse of stunted beech and brushwood
near, from which a steel-clad Norman man-at-arms might
occasionally be seen peeping, casting down the road impatient
glances, such as the hungry wolf might cast upon its loitering
prey.

Ay," muttered the old woman, resuming her occupation of
gathering herbs, " wait ; he will not tarry long. The noble stag
and timid fawn are both within the toils. First, the mother," she
added, counting with her fingers, " then the wife and eldest born,
and now the sire, and the last shoot of his doomed, blighted race.
Blood will be shed. I feel — I scent it. I saw the corpse-lights
flitter in the ruins of Cranfield — a sure token of death in its lordly
line. He comes, the victim to the sacrifice — the eagle to the
archer's aim."

At this moment Ethwold and several of his followers left their
ambush to secrete themselves behind the cross, in order that they
might secure their prey between two nets, and so cut off all chance
of escape.

What dost thou here, wretched hag ? " exclaimed the haughty
Saxon. " Away ! we want no spy upon our deeds. Hence, ere my

archers lash thee with their bow-strings till the flesh falls from thy
accursed bones."

There needs small wit to guess thew deed," replied the beldame,
sharply, "when Saxon joins with Norman to oppress his country.
Hell is sure to register it, and Heaven to punish it."

A laugh from the men-at-arms stung the traitor at whom the
bitter sneer was levelled. Striking the speaker with the back of
his weapon brutally over the temple, he once more bade her begone.

"Ethwold," screamed the hag, in a voice rendered painfully
sharp by passion, as she wiped the blood which trickled down hei
haggard features, " thou art a doomed man ! Saxon and Norman
shall alike reject thee ; the gallows-tree shall end thy vile career ;
the pie shall chatter on thy fleshless skull, and the winds whistle
through thy unburied bones. Craven and traitor, the curse of her
whose words ne'er fall to earth be on thee ! Thou hast struck a
woman ; by a woman's hand thy fate shall be accomplished."

Ere the astonished Ethwold could give orders to secure her, the
hag had fled into the wood, whose intricate windings forbade all
hope of a pursuit.

It was with bitter, sad reflections that Ulrick and his daughter,
whose tears had drawn from her father a reluctant permission to
accompany him to Cranfield, approached the once happy home of
love and childhood. A thousand recollections rose in the mind of
each as they remarked the well remembered cross which divided
the two domains. Both, as by a mutual impulse, reined their
steeds to repeat an Ave ! for the safe conclusion of their journey.
The action was too favourable for the intentions of the ambushed
ruffians to escape their notice. In an instant the travellers were
surrounded, and the male rider disarmed.

What would you, masters ? " he exclaimed, taking them for
robbers, " gold ? ' I have but little, and to that ye are freely
welcome. What," he added, seeing that they were about to bind
his arms, " would ye offer violence to a pilgrim of the Cross ? "

Ethwold ! " shrieked Myrra, as the eyes of the triumphant villain
encountered his, " betrayed ! betrayed ! "

At the name of the perjured Saxon, the fearful truth flashed at
once in all its horror upon the mind of the unhappy father.
Bursting with a frantic effort from the men-at-arms who held him,
he sprang upon the traitor, whose life, unarmed though the
indignant Ulrick was, would have fallen a just sacrifice, had not
numbers overpowered him.

It is accomplished," murmured our hero to himself ; " man
may not struggle with his destiny."

There was something so calm and dignified in the resignation of
their captive, so touching in the tears and the affectionate caresses
of his fair child, that even the rude Normans felt moved, and
conducted them to the city with respect and silence.

/

Ethwold, to avoid being seen with the party, and his treason
to his countrymen thereby at once made known, lingered behind,
triumphing in the anticipated possession of the high-minded girl
who had rejected him, and the despair of his rival cousin, whom
he hated.

Now, then," he exclaimed, " I can meet scorn with scorn and
hate with hate. TJlrick dishonoured ms before my nation ; the
scaffold soon will claim him. Myrra preferred the boyish love of
a mere stripling to my fervent vows — ha ! ha ! ha ! Soon shall
she sue and learn to wait my smiles, come at my beck, and
tremble at my frown. I'll break her haughty spirit," he added,
and find more pleasure in the task than e'en her love could yield
me."

You must be brief, then," whispered a voice near him, " for
your courtship will prove but short."

He started, and found the hag whom he had so brutally treated
grinning maliciously at his side. The first impulse of the haughty
franklin was to repeat the chastisement ; but on a motion of her
hand, he was disarmed by a dozen wretched-looking men, who had
crept through the underwood and gradually surrounded him, and
who immediately hurried him from the high road into the depth
of the forest.

Dogs I " he exclaimed, as one of them drew from his vest a
rope, " would you bind me ? "

Ay," replied the hag ; " bind thee where Satan's hand alone
shall loose thee — where thy crimes long since should have consigned
thee — to the gallows-tree ! "

Thou dearest not, woman," he answered. " Knowest thou who
I am ? Slaves ! I will rack ye limb from limb for this. Hear*
me," he added, seriously alarmed for his safety, for one of the
ruffians had already made a noose at one end of the cord, and advanced
with the intention of placing it round his neck, " I am rich ;
I'll buy my life with gold — gold, which is the master-key to
pleasure — gold, which will purchase wine and beauty — all that
men's hearts desire, all that their wishes can frame." '^ y^

All but thy life ! " screamed the woman ; " for couldst thou
coin the earth in gold, and count it down before me, I'd trample
on thy offer. Do you hesitate ? " continued the fury, observing
that some of the outlaws were pondering on the Saxon's offer.
Fools ! would the man who sold his country e'er keep faith with
you ? Obey me, or I break all ties between-as — denounce ye to
your Norman tyrants' mercies, and leave ye to your fate."

The outlaws, who were dependent on the hag for the necessary
supplies of food, and whose influence over them was still nether
increased by her skill in wounds, not unfrequently called iat©
requisition in the hazardous life they led, hesitated no longer.
Despite his yells and frantic struggles, EthwoJd was attached io

the fatal tree, x^s soon as the men retired he caught with his
unbound hands to the branch to which he was suspended, and fora
few moments procrastinated his fate.

A priest, a priest ! " he shrieked. " Let me not perish body
and soul. Save me, woman, and I will be thy slave, thy hound ;
chain me in the deep centre of the earth, feed me on carrion, use
me as a footstool, spare my life, but for repentance."

Ha, ha, ha ! how the hang-dog howls ! "

Mercy ! mercy ! "

The pie shall chatter on thy fleshless skull ! " repeated the fury.

But for one hour to pray."

The winds shall whistle through thy fleshless bones ! " she
added.

No hope — no hope ! "

None ! " exclaimed the aged woman, sternly. " My word is
kept ; thou hast struck a woman, and a woman's hand consigns thee
to thy doom."

Raising her long staff, she struck the struggling wretch upon his
hands till the repeated blows forced him to let go his desperate
hold, but not till bruised bones and mangled flesh had lost all
power of supporting him. He fell with a heavy jerk, and, after a
few convulsive struggles, Ethwold, the betrayer of his country,
swung a corpse ; cut off in the moment of his triumph by the agency
of a weak creature, whom in his strength he could have crushed,
and whom in the wantonness of his power he had treated cruelly.

CHAPTER XXIII.

Ralph de Gael paced the great hall of the castle, impatiently
awaiting the arrival of his prisoners. Had he been aware who the
redoubled leader was, he would hardly have entrusted to a
subordinate the task of securing his person ; for, despite the number
of years which had elapsed since the exile of our hero, conscience
that busy monitor — at times whispered in his ear that Ulrick
might return to exact fearful retribution for his murdered wife, his
desolated home, and outraged honour ; and the thought would
poison the wine-cup and arrest the smile upon his lip. Prudence
had prevented his ever making public his marriage with the guilty,
the unhappy Ethra ; the greater parts of the estates of Cranfield had
become his by confiscation, and the knowledge of his union with
the child of the man whom he had so cruelly persecuted could have
answered no other purpose than to cover his name with additional
infamy. The betrayer and betrayed lived still : her remarkable
beauty, which even sorrow and remorse had failed to touch, held
the tyrant in a bond which habitude had contributed to rivet ; for,

although his infidelities were frequent, they were carefully
concealed from the eyes of his injured wife.

Where stay the loiterers ? " he demanded of an esquire who at
a respectful distance awaited his commands. " Night hath already
fallen. Can the Saxon have escaped me ? Who leads the men ? "

Herbert," replied the officer. " A cool head, my lord, and a
still better sword."

I know his qualities," interrupted the impatient Norman, who
loved not to hear the praise even of the instruments most faithful
to his crimes. " Let the torturers be summoned. I'll wring
confession from the Saxon's lips. No mercy, no weakness now.
The cord and axe shall be each rebel's doom. I'll crush the
traitors like a nest of vipers 'neath my iron heel."

The warders, however, cut short his threats by announcing the
arrival of his prisoners, who were instantly conducted by their captors
to his presence. Ulrick, although heavily chained, still supported
the steps of his fair child ; his paternal arm encircled her waist,
half-veiling her form in the folds of his dark mantle. Time and
the burning sun of Syria had so changed him, that even the eye
of hate, whose glance is often keener than that of love, failed to
recognise him. His step was erect, in the conscious integrity of
his life and the dignity of his nature ; his eye, like that of an
imprisoned eagle, shrank not from the gaze of his captor, which,
on the contrary, gradually quailed beneath its glance.

Who art thou ? " said Ralph de Gael, in a much less haughty
tone than he usually assumed towards his victims, for the bearing
of the soldier of the Cross had involuntarily awed him.

A Saxon," was the reply.

'• Humph ! I guessed as much," interrupted the Norman, " from
thy insolent bearing. What else ? "

Thy foe ! " added Ulrick, sternly, " thy deadly foe. Mine is
no common hate. I tell thee, Ralph de Gael, were we both
struggling on the wave, with but one plank between us and
eternity, my hand should dash that plank aside rather than float
with thee."

Father father ! " whispered Myrra, alarmed at the effect his
words produced upon the astonished tyrant, " patience, patience
for mine and for thy country's sake."

Indeed ! " exclaimed the surprised Norman, for it was not
often that such words had fallen upon his ears, more used to
prayers and supplications than reproaches from his victims ; and
what cause ? "

What cause ! " iterated our hero, approaching him ; " have I
not told thee that I am a Saxon ; and canst thou ask the cause ?
Look well around thee ; view the groaning earth, which once
teemed plenty to her children's toil, made wild and barren 'neath
the Norman sway ; view well the happy homes, the antique

towers, in which of old the Saxon lived and ruled, now desolate
beneath the Norman brand. Dost thou still ask the cause ?" — sand
here the expression of the captive's eye, as he repeated the question,
was like the forked lightning's point, or the concentrated glance of
the fierce basilisk. "Again look forth, and view our offspring,
children of our blood, fettered like slaves to pamper up your pride,
or made the victims of their tyrants' lust. Our country lost, our
homes profaned, our trampled liberties, our bro en hearts — all, all
proclaim the cause."

For a few moments Ealph de Gael remained pale with rage, and
speechless from the mere impotence of passion. There was a tone,
too, in the speaker's voice which jarred upon his soul like the
return in manhood's years of childhood's half-remembered terror.
He felt convinced that he and his prisoner had met before ; but
memory, so changed was his victim, failed to whisper where. His
pride was galled at the proud glance beneath which his own had
quailed.

Fool ! " he at last replied ; " ours is the right of conquest ;
victory places the yoke upon your necks, and justifies our sway."

Nothing can justify a tyrant's sway," answered the prisoner
calmly. "Freedom is man's inalienable right, stamped by the
Godhead on his form when he went forth creation's chartered lord.
Nor conquest's law, nor deed on vellum sealed, nor e'en man's
own assent, can ratify its loss. Though ages more than e'er the
world has seen had passed since first your fetters bound us down,
yet from the moment that we spurned our chain, and felt our
rights, humanity's lost charter was restored. Wretch ! " he added,
the measure of thy cruelties is full — a people rise in their
indignant strength — despite thy guards, thy crouching slaves, their
justice yet shall reach thee ! When thou shalt see this bloodstained
hold, the seat of thy dark tyranny and crime, a prey to flames —
when frantic fear shall prey upon thy heart, and wild remorse call
Heaven in vain for mercy, think on the wrongs of Ulrick, and
despair."

Ulrick ! " repeated Ralph aloud. His cheek blanched as he
beheld the secret terror of his life before him ; then muttering to
himself, he uttered, " 'Twas instinct, then, which made me shudder
as I looked upon him."

Wretch ! " echoed his victim, " where is the home thy sword
hath made a desert? — the wife thy bloodhounds hunted to the
grave ? — the child that perished in the blazing pile ? Deep in the
grave I may forget my wrongs ; but whilst one spark of waking
life remains, 'twill be employed in precious, dear revenge. Off,
vile chains ! " he added, " more terrible than death. Oh ! for the
lightning's arm to strike thee ! "

The unhappy man became so excited by the recollection of his
wrongs that, unarmed as he was, he rushed upon the destroyer of

his happiness, and raising his chains as a weapon above his head,
doubtless would have inflicted a summary vengeance upon the
tant, had not his guards restrained him. One more zealous than
the rest held the point of his sword at the throat of the fallen
Saxon, and waited but a nod or look from his unworthy chief to
strike — a sign which would most probably have been given, had
not Myrra, alarmed for her father's life, forgot the natural timidity
of her nature and the horror which the name of her enemy
inspired. Kneeling at the Norman's feet, she even clasped his
hand, nay, bathed it with her tears, and implored him by every
sentiment of pity and humanity to spare a being whose heart his
cruelties had already crushed, whose brain was maddened by the
memory of his sorrows. It would have been impossible for anyone,
even less the slave than Ralph de Gael of beauty, to gaze unmoved
upon so fair a suppliant ; — her ripening form, like the
swelling bud of the fragrant rose, gave delicious promise of its
bursting beauties ; her blue eyes, like sapphires, gemmed in tears,
were turned imploringly upon him ; while from her prostrate
position his licentious eye caught the rich contour ®f her heaving
bosom. It was long since he had gazed on aught so fair, so fresh,
so beautiful ; and the heart of the voluptuary throbbed with an
emotion to which it had been for years a stranger.

Rise ! " exclaimed Ulrick, who beheld with a sickening
sensation the looks of lawless admiration which the Norman cast
upon the innocent dove trembling within his clutches. " Plead not
to him for mercy, lest from the tomb thy mother's shade indignant
rise and curse the child who bends to the destroyer of her race.
Thinks thou," he added, " I could value life as that man's
loathsome gift ? "

Fear not," said the tyrant ; " thou shalt have thy wish —
the trial first, and then the headsman's office. Away with him to
a dungeon ! Guard him, fellows, as you would your lives ; your
heads are on your faith."

To a dungeon ! " replied Ulrick ; " even there my spirit still
can scorn thee. Come, Myrra," he added, opening his fettered
arms to receive his terror-stricken child ; " even in a prison a
father's heart can shield thee — a father's breast pillow thy
innocent head."

Not so ! " exclaimed Ralph, with a sardonic smile ; " it were a
stain upon our chivalry to consign so fair a prisoner to so foul a
den ; our castle hath a bower more suited to her beauty and her
years."

No, no ! " shrieked Myrra ; for as he spoke a nameless terror
struck upon her heart. " My father's dungeon, the scaffold, or the
grave — anywhere with him. I dare not — will not — quit my father's
side."

Despite her tears and entreaties, despite the desperate efforts of

her distracted father, the unhappy girl was torn from his
protecting arms, and placed by the guards in the hands of their
chief, whose admiration of her beauty was, if possible, increased
by the charm of its sorrows, and who listened to Ulrick's frantic
curse with a triumphant laugh.

At a wave of his hand the captive was dragged by overwhelming
numbers to his dungeon, and the helpless Myrra left in the power
of the object of her terror.

It is impossible to say, in the excitement of the moment, to
what excess his passions might have hurried him, had not the
frightful convulsions into which his victim fell on beholding him
approach for awhile proved her protection. Calling to some of the
female attendants of Ethra, he ordered them to bear her to a
chamber remote from the apartment of his wife, from whom, on
peril of his wrath, they were to conceal the knowledge of her
being in the castle.

Ealph de Gael knew how much he was detested, not only by the
Saxon franklins and nobles whom he had oppressed, but by the
inhabitants of the city generally, whom his exactions had on more
than one occasion driven into unsuccessful outbreaks against his
authority, the suppression of which had served as pretexts for
fresh spoliation. But the present danger was of unusual gravity.
Nobles and serfs, peasants and artisans, all seemed leagued against
him. In his arrogance he had so offended the neighbouring
Norman nobles that even from them he could count on faint
support. He despatched, therefore, that very night, a message to
the king, then holding his Parliament at Bury St, Edmund's, to
demand prompt succour, at the same time informing him that the
exiled traitor, Ulrick of Cranfield, was his prisoner. A council of
war was afterwards called, and means debated to best provide
against the threatened attack ; for the Norman, whatever might
have been his crimes, was no carpet knight, but as prompt in
battle as in evil deeds.

Ethra — the neglected, the heartbroken, but still loving Ethra —
had on this eventful night remained long after the vesper hymn
had ceased, praying in the castle chapel, unheeded and alone : an
unusual depression weighed upon her soul, a secret warning of the
realisation of those undefined terrors which haunt the predestined
and foredoomed. The only light within the sacred place proceeded
from the ever-burning lamps before Our Lady's shrine, and as their
reflection fell upon the pale but still beautiful features of the
penitent, they lit up a picture which a painter might have copied
with advantage.

"Peace!" whispered the suppliant. "Holy Mother, pray that
my heart finds peace ! Pour thou the balm of kind oblivion on
its bleeding sorrows ! Save me from madness ! save me from
myself ! "

Thy prayer-will soon be heard," exclaimed a voice near to her ;
indeed, so near that the breath of the speaker bore the words to
her very ear. " Soon will my prediction be accomplished."

Ethra started, and beheld the woman whom ten years before she
had saved from the fury of her two hounds on the fatal morning
when she first beheld Ralph de Gael. Although so long a period
had elapsed, she had not forgotten either the adventure or the
strange prediction.

It is accomplished, mother," she answered humbly ; " I am
indeed outraged — scorned."

"But not avenged," sternly interrupted her strange visitor.

*' What meanest thou ? "

"Art thou so poor in spirit," demanded the hag, " as to ask that
question ? While thou art praying, wasting thy hours in solitary
tears, thy husband — but no," she added, checking herself, " why
should I tell the tale thou hast no wish to hear ? — what isn't to thee
with whom he wastes his hours, so thou canst weep and pray ?
Thou hast thy Norman mother's blood, not the proud spirit of thy
Saxon race."

What meanest thou ? " replied Ethra, drawing herself up with
fearful calmness. " Nay, torture me not with dark surmise or
womanish conceits, to raise false jealousy within my heart ; but if
thou knowest aught touching my husband's faith, I charge thee
tell it me ! "

He hath a mistress in these very walls — young, beautiful, and
good as thou wert once," said the hag. " Soon will thy lord
become the slave of her caprice, and know no law but the fair
idol's pleasure."

Thanks ! " said the unhappy Ethra — " thanks ! Thy words have
fallen like coals of fire ujjon my head ; but still I thank thee.
Monster ! " she added, with a burst of grief apostrophising her
destroyer, " here, in my very home, to trample on my heart ! As
yet," she exclaimed, and a fearful expression passed over her
excited features, " Ralph but little knows the nature he has
wronged : he hath seen it only in the weakness of its love ; let
him beware of the strength of its revenge ! "

And thy fair rival ? " demanded the woman.

Dies," whispered Ethra, sternly ; " this very night my sleeping
rival dies. Then will despair rage high in my destroyer's breast —
then will he feel, in agonising throes, a portion of that hell which
rages here."

Drawing her veil around her, with a calm step the speaker left
the chapel to return to her apartments in the castle. Her
informant remained gazing after her a few moments in silence.

Now," she exclaimed, " are my years of plotting turned to
some account ; mischief is high afloat, and misery rears its pale,
still standard o'er us. The jealous wife will not fail to recognise

BB 2

her sister — her sister to impart their father's danger ; remorse and
jealousy will find a means to save them both. TJlrick once free,
these blood-stained towers must fall ; and with them their
destroying, heartless tyrant. Curse him ! " she added, sinking on
her knees ; " the widow's lonely curse rest on him ! Avenge me.
Heaven, on the destroyer of my husband, the seducer of my child,
and earth and I will then be quits."

The speaker, who had twice so strangely crossed the path of
Ethra, had indeed no common cause of hatred to the Norman
governor, for her husband had been murdered by Ralph de Gael
for resisting his violence towards their only child, whom the
tyrant, in a fit of caprice, had torn from her humble home ; it was,
therefore, with a mother's and a widow's lacerated heart that the
Saxon crone had cursed him.

On reaching her apartment Ethra dismissed her attendants, from
whose confusion and evasive manners, when she demanded if any
strangers had arrived within the castle, she read the confirmation
of her fears. As soon as she was alone she removed the jewels
from her neck and arms, and changed her dress for a dark mantle
and veil, such as, in the long corridor through which she had to
pass, were likely to be least observed. Opening a small cabinet,
she drew from it a dagger of highly tempered steel. Despite her
resolution a sickening sensation came over her as she grasped the
weapon in her hand.

What am I about to do ? " she murmured. " Stain my soul
with blood ! Better to end my own wretched, blighted existence.

'Tis but a blow, and No, no," she added, after a pause, " gladly

as I would welcome death, mine must not be the hand. There
still remains a task to be performed. The captive priest, whose
dismal dungeon I discovered in my wanderings, assures me he is
armed with the means to prove my father's innocence — to crush
my vile betrayer. Ulrick ! " she exclaimed, and a flood of tears
followed the word, " thy guilty but repentant child shall vindicate
thy name, and ask forgiveness only in the tomb."

In a chamber within the keep of Norwich Castle, worn with
grief and terror, the innocent Myrra slept. The female attendants
to whose care she had been consigned, knowing all escape to be
impossible, had withdrawn to their apartments, situated in Bigod's
tower ; and thus the helpless girl was deprived of even the feeble
protection which their presence would have afforded. The room
would have been in utter darkness but for the stream of moonlight
which entered through the large grated window and fell
upon the couch, lighting the heavy crimson draperies with its
silver light. Myrra had always entertained a deep love, and
almost superstitious veneration, for the memory of her mother,
whose spirit she devoutly believed still watched over the safety of
her child with all a mother's affection, with all a guardian angel's

care. In all her sorrows she was accustomed to address her
prayers to her loved shade ; and her portrait, which she wore
suspended from a pomander chain round her neck, was to her fond
imagination a relic to which some strange influence was attached.

Perhaps there is no feeling of the human heart so pure, so
unstained by selfishness or passion, as the love which children
bear their mother. How often, in after life, when the grave has
closed around that tender parent's form, will a word, a look, recall
to mind that guardian of our infant years — that confidante of
childhood's sorrows ! Again her eyes, beaming with affection,
seem to dwell on ours. Again her voice breathes sweet reproof, or
whispers consolation in our ears, A mother's name claims from
the world respect, and from her children honour.

Myrra's was not that calm and peaceful sleep which rests upon
the brow of those who slumber in the security of home and
watchful friends. Her restless dreams were wild and troubled asher
fortunes ; dark threatening shadows weighed upon her spirit,
and her deep-drawn breathing wei interrupted by sighs and
meanings, such as might break from an imprisoned cherub's
unquiet rest. Her long chestnut hair, nature's own screen to
modesty, had escaped from the embroidered veil which bound it,
and fell in curling masses over her innocent bosom, which rose
and sank with every exhalation of her fragrant breath. Her right
hand grasped the chain and portrait, as the protecting aegis beneath
whose influence she slept ; and her left arm rested carelessly on
her dark robe, contrasting like sculptured ivory upon an ebon
ground. It was a picture an angel might have contemplated with
pleasure, a fiend should have shuddered to approach.

Cautiously the arras which covered the entrance to the apartment
was drawn aside, and Ethra, bearing a lamp and the poniard
she had taken from the cabinet, approached. Her step was slow
and stealthy as the pace of the midnight murderer ; her breath
escaped from her clenched teeth more like the faint hiss of a
cautious snake than the free breathing of a human being.
Perhaps the strong effort of self-control was more fearful in the
still beautiful creature than even the wildest storm of passion
would have been. Her cheek was pale with the horror of the
resolution which her knit brow conveyed, and her dark eyes
flashed with the electric sparks of her contending passions.

She sleeps," she murmured to herself — " thank Heaven she
sleeps ! Oh ! Avhen shall I know rest ? Calmly she sleeps, as if
watchful angels hovered o'er her couch to shield their charge from
danger. 'Tis but a blow — a bubbling gush — a moment's struggle —
and life's fitful dream is ended ! Let me look on her fair face,"
she added, " gaze on the charms whose fatal beauty has robbed me
of the love bought with so many crimes ; the sight will steel my
heart and nerve my hand."

Twice did the speaker flash the light of the small silver lamp
she bore over the features of her sleeping rival. So many years
had elapsed since they had met, or jealously had so blinded her,
that not one trait recalled the infant sister, whom she had
abandoned, to her memory.

Young, too," she continued ; " perhaps innocent. No matter,
she hath crossed my solitary path ; her fatal beauty disputes with
me the only heart I ever prized. Away remorse, and weak
blinding pity ! She dies ! "

The hand of the jealous woman was raised — another instant,
and the sleep of the gentle, innocent Myrra would have been
eternal, when Heaven, whose wisest purposes so oft seem accident,
interposed to save her soul from crime. Despite her resolution,
the doubt that her rival might be the victim, and not the accomplice,
of her betrayer, shook her purpose. The chain and portrait
which attracted her attention promised to confirm or dissipate her
doubts. Gently releasing it from the sleeper's hand, she raised it
to the lamp, and saw it was-her mother's ! Twice did she press
her hand upon her care-worn brow, deeming that memory had
deceived her, or conscience conjured the accusing shadow to her
blasted sight. Her burning eyeballs, incapable of tears, were
riveted on the unconscious ivory. Convinced that it was indeed
her mother's portrait, her first impulse was to cover it with kisses ;
but a blush of shame, which suffused her cheek at the recollection
of her crime, restrained her.

It is no mockery of my senses," she exclaimed, " but real — my
mother, such as in life she looked and smiled upon her child. Who
is this sleeper, then ? " she added, fixing her eyes with pitiable
terror upon the couch. " Why does she wear my mother's portrait ?
Can it be ? — no, no ! " she shudderingly continued, as the fearful
suspicion of who Myrra really was flashed upon her ; " God is too
merciful for that ; madness were bliss to such a damning thought
yet doubt is worse than madness."

Rushing to the bed, she grasped the sleeper frantically, calling
upon her to awaken, Myrra started at the voice from her uneasy
dreams, and beholding a female, whose agitated features were more
like those of the inspired pythoness than cold humanity, called in
her fear for mercy.

"Call not to Heaven!" exclaimed Ethra, "in idle adjurations,
but answer me. Whose portrait is this ? "

My mother's," replied the astonished girl, " Oh, give it back —
it is my mother's ! "

Her request was alike unheard and unheeded, for at the words
my mother's," the unhappy woman fell to the ground with a
shriek so piercing, so unearthly, that it sounded like the yell
which the departing spirit gives when driven from this world
hopeless of the next.

Despite her terror and astonishment, Myrra sufficiently mastered
her emotions to assist the incomprehensible being who had so
rudely broken upon her slumbers. Pouring water from the vase of
flowers in the window of her chamber into her hands, she bathed
her burning brow, and chafed her hands : but it was long ere life,
with a deep-drawn sigh, recalled the insensible Ethra back to the
sense of misery and guilt. Her first feeling was to end her
blighted, lonely existence ; shame and remorse bowed her crushed
spirit to the dust, and she feared death less than she feared to meet
her innocent sister's eye.

Where," she exclaimed, wildly starting to her feet, " where is
the poniard — misery's last friend, dishonour's sole resource ? "

What ! " said Myrra, misconceiving her intention, " and wouldst
thou take my life ? "

•' Thy life ! " iterated Ethra, her feelings suddenly diverted from
their fearful nature by the question.

'• Am I then quite a monster ? Thy life ! Oh, I would give the
wretched remnant of my days to save thy heart one pang — pour
the blood freely from my guilty breast, ere harm approached to
thee, my guileless, innocent sister ! "

Sister ! " repeated Myrra in astonishment.

Ay, sister ! thy elder born ! she who taught thy infant lips to
utter its first prayer ; whose last kiss within her father's ruined
halls was pressed upon thy cheek ! Let me, ere I die," she added,
taste the last happiness my soul can know — a sister's fond
embrace ! Come to this heart, which throbs as it would burst to
meet thee — this broken heart, which, crushed by guilt and sorrow,
still can spring to thee ! "

With passionate tenderness the speaker threw her arms around
her long-lost sister, pressed her almost with a mother's love to her
agitated bosom, and printed a thousand kisses upon her unsullied
brow and cheeks. Encircled in the weeping Myrra's arms, she
felt as if not quite abandoned by Heaven : it was the first ray of
mercy which had fallen upon her soul. Nature had struck the
rock, and melted it.

Ethra ! dear Ethra ! " whispered her sister, " why this mystery ?
Why so long concealed the secret of your escape upon that fearful
night, which gave our home to flames, our hearts to desolation ? "

Ask me not ; there's crime, there's madness in the fearful tale."

And shame .' " added Myrra, mournfully, in an inquiring
voice.

Her sister started from her at the word, and gazed with a
haughty but not angry look upon her.

No," she answered slowly ; " those who loved me once may
curse my memory, but never blush for it. Thinks I had clasped
thee, my pure and innocent sister, to my breast, had I been the
polluted thing my cheek would burn to name ? No, though it

freeze thy ears to hear the damning truth, blister my lips to utter
it, still it must be told that Ethra is a wife."

Whose ? " demanded her sister, with a look in "which terror
and pity were mingled.

His," she exclaimed, " whose sword left a desert where he
found a paradise — who made thee motherless, ard me a wretch —
the wife of Ealph de Gael."

Of Eali^h de Gael ! " repeated Myrra, in a voice of horror, " of
him who holds thy father captive, whose licentious passion
threatens thy sister v/ith far worse than death ! Save me from
him," she continued, " for our mother's memory, for the honour of
our name — save me, or kill me here."

The agony Vv'ith which the speaker urged her request proved
how deeply grounded were her terrors ; and despite the impulse
of her better nature, her sister felt a pang of jealousy that another
should be preferred by him for whom she had sacrificed her hope
of heaven, the world, and self-esteem. The sentiment was but
momentary. Throwing her arm around the fair girl, as if to
protect her even from imaginary outrage, she reassured her that
she possessed the will as well as power to release both her and her
parent from their tyrant's hold, and that long ere morning's dawn
they should be both at liberty.

"And thou too, Ethra ?" urged the trembling pleader ; "thou
too wilt quit this scene of shame and crime ? "

No," replied her sister, sternly ; " I know my fate, and will
not shrink from its fulfilment. Fearful hath been my crime ; as
fearful shall be my expiation. Let me but obtain my father's
pardon ere I die, and I have done with life ; but see," she added,
pointing to the evening star, which began to glitter faintly in the
heavens, " time presses ; ere the glorious sun shall gladden earth,
I have much to do. Come, Myrra, come ; banish all dread from
thy pure, guiltless breast ; indulge that hope I never more must
know."

The prison in which Ulrick was confined was a deep subterranean
cell, lying between the inner and outward moat, and,
from the rude, massive character of its architecture, as well as the
absence of anything like ornament, was evidently of much older
date than the castle itself, having most probably formed, with the
winding passages which led to it, a part of the ancient fortress
erected by Canute, who held his court in Norwich. It was one of
those dungeons which tyranny alone could have conceived or the eye
of cruelty could have gazed on without a shudder The green, foetid
lichen tapestried its unequal walls with its unwholesome vegetation ;
and monstrous fungi — the undisturbed growth of years, the home
of the bloated toad and slimy reptile — carpeted the cold damp
floor. The thick greasy plants Avere crushed beneath the impatient
tread of our hero as he paced the cell, and the scared inmates

lazily crawled from his path, trailing their hideous forms to some
undisturbed retreat.

At first his storm of passion had been fearful — perchance its
violence had exhausted itself, or the cold heavy air reduced the
raging fever of his blood ; for, after a few hours' pacing of his cell,
he gradually became calm and collected, his thoughts reverted to
the past, and if hope whispered him no promise for the future, it
was that a secret monitor assured him that for him time had
indeed no future.

On approaching one corner of his dungeon, he observed an
indistinct heap thrown carelessly together, half-hid by the same
rank vegetation which everywhere encroached around him ; the
indistinct light of the solitary lamp suspended from the ceiling did
not at first allow him to examine it distinctly, but as his eyes
gradually became habituated to the place, he perceived the object
of his attention to be a human skeleton ; doubtless the remains of
some former inmate, left to moulder in the den where its last
prayer had been raised to Heaven, its last sigh echoed unheeded in
its flinty walls. As he reverently raised the skull, a serpent, which
had found it a convenient hiding-place, glided through his fingers,
and fell upon the ground. The faint hiss of the reptile lacked that
acute sound peculiar in those of its species who dwell in sun and
light ; it was weak and sickly as the atmosphere of its damp,
cheerless home.

And this," he mused, " is man ! The noblest temple Deity has
reared becomes a reptile's hiding-place ! God-given thought
ousted from its shrine, that the foul toad may dwell there ! What
lofty thoughts, what noble purposes may have had birth within
this hollow skull ! Perchance," he added, after a pause, " what
fearful crimes engendered there ! Its dreams, like mine, may have
been those of liberty, and this the end on't."

The end of all on earth ! "exclaimed ade^p-toned voice, which
sounded at a distance.

Ulrick started, and looked eagerly around his prison. He was
alone.

Who spoke ? " he demanded, " or have my senses mocked me ? "

One who hath counted ten long years of solitude, yet never for
one moment doubted justice on earth, or Heaven's absolving mercy
in a better world."

I hear thee," said our hero, " and yet I see thee not. Where
art thou, whose voice breathes hope and consolation when hope
and consolation seem to fail ? "

Art thou alone ? " continued the speaker.

Alone, with solitude and death," was the reply.

'* Wait, then, a moment till I get my tools," resumed the unknown.'
" I laboured years to forge them from a fragment of my
broken chain — ground them with untiring patience upon my

dungeon stone, less hard than my obdurate tyrant's heart. Wonder
not, then, I prize them," he added, *' and conceal them carefully
from my suspicious gaoler's curious eye."

In a few moments Ulrick heard a noise against the wall which
evidently divided the vast vault into two distinct prisons. One by
one the huge stones were removed, until an aperture sufficiently
large to admit the ingress of a human being was made in the solid
masonry.

Can I assist you ? " he demanded.

No," replied the stranger ; " I am used to the attempt, and
require no aid."

The next moment the speaker stood before him — a tall, emaciated
figure, whose beard, straggling and thin, descended to his girdle ;
whose haggard features, from long seclusion, were of that deathlike
waxy hue we see upon the corpse. The tattered robe which
enshrouded him, and the torn scapulary, denoted that the wearer
was a member of some religious order ; but the fragments were too
ragged and too much soiled and worn by time to tell the gazer
which.

"Welcome, brother in affliction ! " exclaimed Ulrick, extending
his hand to the strange phantom ; " doubly welcome if I read aright
thy priestly office in these sullied robes. Religion's minister, in
such an hour, is more than welcome to the captive's heart."

I am, indeed," replied the wretched being, " an unworthy priest
of the Most High."

"And what virtue made thee the prisoner of Ralph de Gael ? "

My weakness and his crimes. Like some midnight thief, he
stole upon my peaceful path, and tore me from the only shelter sin
and the world had left me. Long I refused compliance with his
will — refused to aid him in the vile scheme of vengeance he had
formed, to crush the foe he had too deeply injured. Torture was
used ; I yielded, and am punished."

Torture — and a priest ! " repeated his hearer, with horror.

Ay," said Father Onfroy ; for our readers have doubtless
recognised in the captive thus singularly brought in contact with
our hero, the priest whose skill in telegraphy had been so successfully
employed by Ralph de Gael to forge the documents which
justified his attack upon Cranfield, and established charge of conspiracy
against Ulrick ; " the torture, the burning pincers, and the
cruel rack. In my early days I had often gazed upon the victims
bound there — counted their groans and shrieks — looked coldly on
whilst every limb was stretched in mortal agony — each muscle
quivering with pain too exquisite for nature to support. I have
felt it since," he added, with a shudder ; "felt all that I saw — all
that I inflicted. My punishment hath not been more fearful than
my crimes."

Who art thou ? " demanded Ulrick, struck by the tone of his

voice, which aroused painful recollections in his soul. " We have
met before ; for as I hear thee speak the memory of many a year
gone by passes in shadowy visions o'er my mind. I know not
where or when, but I could swear that we have met before."

Seizing his visitor by the arm, the speaker led, or rather dragged,
him to the centre of the dungeon, directly beneath the lamp, which
hung suspended by an iron chain above them. They recognised
each other instantly. There was no mistaking, worn and preternaturally
aged as long captivity had made him, the unearthly
features, disfigured by a thousand minute scars, of the unhappy
monk, who equally traced, amid the ravages of grief and change of
clime, the noble countenance of the Saxon.

Robert of Artois ! " " Ulrick of Cranfield ! " they mutually
exclaimed, and remained gazing on each other, each, from different
emotions, unable to pronounce another word.

The priest was indeed no other than that most unhappy man,
who, on the departure of his son Gilbert with his bride for Normandy,
had, by the advice and consent of Lanfranc, concealed his
crimes and repentance within the cloister, where, under the name
of Brother Onfroy, he became remarkable for that fatal skill in
telegraphy which had made him the tool and victim of his unprincipled
persecutor.

The monk was the first to recover from his surprise. Long
suffering had extinguished in him the pride which had rendered
his earlier penitence imperfect. The hand of Heaven seemed to
have brought about their meeting. Sinking on his knees, he could
only utter the indistinctly pronounced words, " Pardon — pardon ! "

Rise ! " said our hero. " The knee devoted to the altar should
not be bent to sinful man. Whatever thy crimes, long suffering
has atoned them ; an angel while on earth pronounced forgiveness
fear not I shall revoke it."

"Ulrick," faltered the still kneeling suppliant, "in this dark
hour I feel the bitterness, the shame of vice, the holiness of virtue.
As yet thou knowest not half thy injuries : my first crime failed
to deprive thee of thy love ; my second robbed thee of thine
honour."

What meanest thou ? " his astonished hearer demanded.

The letters which Ralph de Gael doubtless produced before the
king to justify his outrage ; the details of the Saxon plot to break
the Norman yoke — to assassinate, cowardly assassinate each noble
in his hold — which gave thy name to infamy, thy memory to scorn
were forged by this degraded hand."

Horror ! " exclaimed his victim. " Did that blow come from
thee?"

From me," continued the guilty man, " whose early crime thou
hadst forgiven, whose deserted son thou hadst protected. Loathing
existence, yet afraid to die, I yielded to the racks of sharp agony.

and stained my knightly honour and my priestly vow by forgery
by a vile felon's weakness and a felon's act."

For a few moments there was a struggle in the generous Saxon's
breast ; but, fearfully as he had been wronged, he felt that Heaven
had sufficiently avenged him, and that man had nought to add to
its punishment. His own span of life he looked upon as counted,
and trembled to appear before the Judgment-seat with the sin of
forgiveness on his soul.

Rise ! " he said. '' Where Heaven hath punished man can only
pardon. As freely as the creature can forgive its fellow-creature,
so do I pardon thee."

Thanks," murmured Robert of Artois ; *' armed with thy forgiveness,
I may present myself at Heaven's bar, trusting it will not
prove less merciful than thou hast. Oh ! " he added, passionately,
but for one moment's liberty, to wash this foul dishonour from
my soul — to rend the mask from this detested tyrant — to atone the
wrong my unwilling hand hath done thee, and place thy honour,
in the minds of men, pure as the angels who record it see it ! "

Dreams ! dreams ! " said our hero, mournfully shaking his
head ; " this dungeon is a tomb from whence life finds no egress.
Behold," he added, pointing to the skeleton, " my history and its
moral. Some future inmate of this cell will muse o'er my remains,
wondering whose nameless bones moulder here."

I'll not believe it," replied his companion ; " such fate might
be mine. There v%^ould be justice in it ; but Heaven hath tried thy
virtues far too deeply not to reward at last ; its purposes are ne'er
so darkly veiled from human eye as when near their fulfilment.
It speaks in parables and strikes through clouds. Why," he added,
with increased confidence, " hath my worthless being been preserved
? Why do we both meet here, but that the crime of years
should be atoned, and truth made clear at last ? "

'' Impossible ! " exclaimed TJlrick ; " who would heed thy
tale ? " ■

All," answered Robert. " Were I but free, I'd find the means
to place thy innocence beyond suspicion's breath."

At this moment, through the grating of the iron door which
barred their path to freedom the rays of a distant light became
faintly visible. The monk was the first to observe it. Pointing it
out to his companion, he whispered :

Have I not prophesied ? "

'Tis but the gaoler, or my executioner."

Say rather thy deliverer, and mine ; the hour so long dreamt
and prayed for is at hand."

Hastening to the door, he applied his ej'es to the grating, and
saw at a distance, in the long damp passage, a veiled female form
bearing a lamp — it was the same figure which had often visited
him in his dungeon, consoled his sorrows and lone captivity, and

alleviated his miseries. His heart beat high ^'ith hope and expectation.


She conies ! " he cried ; "the avenger comes at last. Farewell,
I must retire within my cell : none must know of our communication.
If I err not, soon wilt thou have another trial to thy
generous heart ; but it will bear thee through it. Say not that we
have met. Shouldst thou obtain thy liberty without me, lead on
thy friends to the attack : living release, or dead avenge me. If I
fall," he added, " dig in the corner of my dungeon nearest the iron
ring to which for years my body was enchained, and thou wilt find
a scrap of parchment concealed within the skull of some lone
victim who preceded me ; guard it as thou wouldst thy life and
honour, for it may serve to vindicate them both."

Scarcely had Robert of Artois time to regain his den, and replace
the means of communication between the two cells, than the bar
which fastened the iron door of Trick's prison on the outside was
removed, and Ethra, the guilty and repentant Ethra, her features
concealed beneath the long sable veil which enshrouded her
trembling form, entered the dungeon.

For awhile parent and child remained gazing upon each other in
silence — Ulrick from surprise, and Ethra from the deep emotion
which consumed her. Years had elapsed since she last gazed upon
that stately form — since his deep accents had fallen upon her ear ;
and yet it seemed as they had met but yesterday — so true to
memory are the first characters time traces on its tablets. She
feared to speak, lest the cry of her bruised heart should reach her
lips, and nature vindicate her rights in the sweet name of father.

"Who art thou ? " demanded the captive — "some spirit of consolation
haunting these fearful cells, sent to prepare me for the.
parting hour, when life and grief are ended ; shrouding the ministry
of Heaven in veils, that thv glad beauty break not too soon upon
us ? "

Not the bright being of another world," quickly' answered his
despairing visitant ; " but one upon whose brow misery hath set its
burning seal, hath come to weep in pity o'er thy woes — to soothe
and to relieve them — to open thy dungeon door, and bid thee forth
to liberty and vengeance."

To liberty ! " exclaimed her astonished listener. " Is that
word breathed in these dungeons, which for years have heard no
sound but captives' groans and supplicating sighs ? Who, then,
art thou ? Thy speech bespeaks thee Saxon, but thy words imply
a power which none but damning crimes could purchase thee in
Ralph de Gael's halls."

Although Ethra had addressed her father in the Norman tongue,
the accent with which she spoke it to his practised ear betrayed
her race. Ulrick's allusion to her country touched her heart^it
seemed like the first step towards his recognition of his child ; she

forgot that for ten years he had deemed her dead — dwelt upon her
memory as on a seraph's early called from earth, not as a guilty
living thing of shame and sorrow.

Thou hast guessed rightly," she faltered ; " I am of Saxon
blood." Then hastily added, as if fearful of the consequences of
her admission : " But years have passed since I beheld my home
years since the sound of kindred voice hath fallen on my ear, or
kindred love gladdened the desolation of my heart. Wonder not,
then, that I became its victim — wedded the man stained with a
parent's blood — brought foul dishonour on a noble man, unsullied
save by me."

"What ! " interrupted the horror-stricken Saxon, " wedded with
one whose hand was red with the same blood which flows within
thy veins ? — perchance a father's or a brother's blood. woman,
woman ! affrighted furies spread thy nuptial couch, and hell and
terror drew its curtains round thee."

His reproving words and lofty indignation fell like a sentence
upon her self-accusing soul, and had not a burst of tears relieved
her heart, its agony had broken it.

"Hear me!" she cried; "judge not my crime unheard. No
common snares were spread to catch my soul. With mercy and
compassion listen to my tale ; weigh my long years of agony and
deep remorse, my blighted youth, and outraged heart against my
crime. Hear ere thou condemn me."

Moved by her passionate grief, Ulrick pointed to the rude stone
in the centre of his dungeon, on which his trembling visitor sank
exhausted by the strength of her emotions. With one of those
violent efforts which strong minds only can exert, she, after a few
moments' pause, collected her wandering thoughts, and then commenced
her tale of many sorrows.

CHAPTER XXIV.

I LOVED 1 " said Ethra, " Knowest thou the power those words
imply ? They are the key to the soul's mysteries — the ciphers of
its passions. I loved, not with the light feeling of a girlish heart,
whose smiles and tears, like April's sun-lit showers, succeed ; but
with the strength of summer's ardent rage, whose smile consumes,
whose burning kiss destroys. We met in secret, but not in sin,"
she added quickly, as she caught the expression of Ulrick's eye.
Fallen as I am, that stain at least was spared me. I am not of a
race that could survive dishonour,"

So shall thy soul prove lighter by a crime," said her hearer ;
but tell me, woman, why this concealment ? Was thy father
cold, insensible, or churlish in his love — one who ruled by fear,
and not affection's 'ministry ? "



No," answered the unhappy Ethra, " my heart hath not even
that mean excuse to ease its burden. Oh ! he was good, affection's
self, tender, considerate, generous, loving, wise in all but his weak
love for his degenerate child,"

And thou abandoned him ? — left him in his age, perchance, to
pass in childless solitude the remnant of his days in his once
happy home — fitting return for all his care and fond parental
love I "

*' Worse," added Ethra, with a violent effort at self-command ;
I brought destruction on that happy home ; these guilty hands
unbarred the door to the triumphant foe — gave to the fury of the
Norman sword parents, kindred, friends — brought desolation on
my name and race, and misery on myself."

Horror ! " exclaimed our hero, starting from her, for her words
brought to his mind the destruction of his own lordly halls, and
he recoiled from her as from a loathsome thing. " I had a child —
in tears of anguish oft I mourn her loss ; I now thank Heaven she
lives not such a wretch as thou art. But why," he added, " why
this sad tale of grief and sin to me ? "

Thou art my father's friend," replied the penitent. " Chance
has revealed to me that still he lives; therefore it is I ope' thy
prison door, that thou, in turn, mayst plead for my forgiveness."

Avoid that father," sternly answered Ulrick ; " never meet his
Bight, lest, recognising thee, his heart-strings break, and, dying, he
should curse thee."

At these fearful words, which seemed like a sentence to her
despairing soul, Ethra wrung her hands bitterly ; and the
convulsive sobs and deep-drawn sighs which shook her form
showed how deep was the remorse and agony of her bruised heart.
Little did the returned exile deem the trembling, guilty creature
before him was his own child ; the once happy, smiling girl,
whose arm a hundred times had been entwined around his neck —
whose innocent kisses had so often sealed the words of warning on
his lips.

I have lived," she at last sobbed forth, " till life has been a
curse ; lived to become the scorn of all I loved — of all who ever
loved me. Wouldst thou, stern judge," she added, throwing
herself upon her knees suddenly before him, " thus harshly judge
thy child ? Would not thy iron nature melt while thus in agony
she sued to be forgiven — pleaded her girlish years, her fatal
passion, her long remorse, and broken heart, for mercy ? Wouldst
thou bid her on to her great sacrifice "

Sacrifice ! " repeated Ulrick, " what sacrifice ? "

One," said Ethra, rising proudly from her knees, " which shall
give this blood-stained hold to the avenging Saxon's sword, and
hurl the tyrant to the doom he merits — one that shall end this
guilty life and the oppressor's reign together."

Meanest thou," demanded Ulrick, gazing on her with a look of
admiration as well as pity, " that "

I mean," interrupted Ethra, " that as this guilty hand unbarred
the entrance to the Norman foe, and let the wolf upon the
slumbering fold of my own kindred, it now shall ope the Norman
gates to the avenger's hand. Methinks," she added, glancing
wildly round, " the spirits of my slaughtered race are all assembled
here, and, sternly pointing to these blood-stained towers, claim the
great sacrifice to soothe their shades."

This is indeed atonement," said Ulrick — " a deed to win a
pardon for a crime like thine ; a deed to gain a father's forfeit
love, and crown thy days with penitence and peace."

What ! " exclaimed the unhappy woman ; " thickest thou so
meanly of me that I seek to live, to bear upon my faded brow
the brand of double treason ? Oh ! never — never ! To avenge
my country, my murdered kindred, and my outraged heart — to
save thee, Ulrick, and thy innocent child from Ralph de Gael's
rage, I yield him to the doom ; but think not," she added
mournfully —-think not I will survive him."

Thy country's gratitude, thy kindred's love "

Say rather their pity, their humiliating pity," interrupted
Ethra. "I know man's ingrate nature, and vvill not trust it.
Thinks thou I could bear to meet the world's reproving gaze, or
hear it whisper, ' Behold the being who betrayed father and
husband, duty and country,' forgetful that no choice was left mein
my sorrows — no loop-hole to escape in my despair ? No ; I can
welcome death, slumber in peace within the quiet grave, where
passion moves not and the heart is at rest, let but a father's pardon
rest upon it."

And if he have a heart," said Ulrick, " it will."

These words fell like balm upon the listener's soul : they were
the first rays of hope which pierced through the dark night of her
despair. Laying her trembling hand upon his arm, she answered :

Thou art his friend ; no voice will touch his heart like thine,
no reasoning reach his ear."

His name ? " demanded Ulrick, With surprise.

That," resumed the speaker, " thou wilt know hereafter ; this
paper tells the rest of my sad history. Not now," she hastily
added, as her father was about to unfold it ; " read it not now.
Leading from these dungeons, a passage conducts us to the outer
moat. I have secured the skiff — a boat is ready to convey thee on."

And my child ? "

Already awaits thee there," answered Ethra. " Thinks thou
I would leave thy innocent child within the tiger's fangs ? Once
free, summon thy friends, and return by the same means. Like
Sin guarding the gates of Death, I will remain and give them
entrance. But swear," she added, "that the great sacrifice

accomplished — my country freed — my kindred blood avenged
swear that my father's pardon shall reward the deed."

You tax me past my power," answered the bewildered Ulrick,
astonished at the vehemence of her words and the deep passion
which shook her soul ; but if my prayers can win the boon, I
promise it shall be yours."

It can, it can," resumed the agitated Ethra, with a burst of
tears which relieved her heart. " He will listen to thy pleading.
If thou shouldst find him harsh, if the absolving words should
linger on his lips, lead him," she added, "to my grave — paint to
him my sorrows and remorse, my blighted years, life's withered
hopes — bid him forget my sin in its atonement ; then will the
voice of nature speak within him, and his heart melt in precious,
dear forgiveness."

There was something so desolate, so heart-broken and despairing
in the speaker's voice, that the firm nature of the soldier melted at
its tone. In the agitation of the moment her veil had partially
fallen aside, displaying her still beautiful though care-worn
features. Perhaps it may be wondered that he failed to recognise
them ; but ten years of womanhood and sorrow had so altered
their expression from those of the wild, joyous girl his heart so
long had mourned as with the dead, and the pale lamp's uncertain
light so shadowed them, that the suspicion never crossed his brain.
Had it, oh ! with what eager love his arms would have enfolded
his lost treasure — with what absolving tears his yearning heart
pronounced forgiveness of her crime, oblivion of the past ! But it
was not to be ; the sacrifice to conscience was voluntary and
accepted.

"Live," he exclaimed, "to hear the pardon thy repentance
merits from a parent's lips ; to feel once more the joy of his
paternal kiss ; to rest thy heart, after life's storms and shipwrecks,
in the calm haven of a father's love."

Never," said his daughter, with an expression of resolution,
amounting almost to sternness, upon her brow ; " my heart would
wither should I see the blush of shame suffuse my father's cheek
if Jfeen but named his child. Thinks thou I could bear the
world's forgiveness, or, far more hateful, its insulting pity ? No,"
she added, " my life hath been the comet's fearful path — my death
be like its end. Time presses : in my father's name, pronounce a
blessing anc^ forgiveness on me."

The speaker sank upon her knees as humbly as a child before
the absolving priests ; and Ulrick, with an emotion of pity and
admiration, exclaimed, as he raised his hands above her head :

In His awful name. Parent of all, and in thy earthly parent's
name, I bless and pardon thee ; this deed shall be, in after times,
by poets sung, thy virtues only live in our remembrance. But
staple added, as his visitor resumed the lamp, and pointed

CC

towards the door of the cell ; " I have a companion, one whose life
hath for ten long j-ears been wasted in these dungeons, one whose
safety is necessary to clear my honour of the foul stain the tyrant
cast upon it ! "

The priest," said Ethra ; "I have not forgotten him ; he, too,
shall be the companion of thy flight ; the path is open to ye doth,
for liberty and vengeance !"

At the summons of our hero the wretched Robert of Artois
issued from his den, and gazed for a few moments, with inquiring
eyes, upon his two companions. A sign from the female informed
him that Ulrick knew not that it was to his repentant child he
was about to owe his liberty ; as his own knowledge of the tie
between them was obtained only in the confessional, he was
bound to silence. The unhappy woman, it would seem, had often
sought him in his dungeon to receive consolation from his
ministry, as well as to alleviate the horrors of his lone captivity
with the sweet solace of sympathy and pity.

Bearing the lamp, Ethra preceded the liberated captives through
the long damp passages which led to a small ruined tower beyond
the second moat, and not far distant from the water's edge. From
the unequal nature of the ground, they progressed slowly ; in
many parts the stone-work had partially fallen, and they had to
climb over the obstructing masses. At length they reached a low
iron door, firmly imbedded in the solid walls. A figure, tapped
in a dark, warm mantle, sprang impulsively to meet them ; it was
Myrra, who had been long impatiently expecting them. Throwing
herself into her sister's arms, she exclaimed :

Arrived — arrived at last ! How fearfully the dreary hour hath
passed ! "

Silence," whispered Ethra ; " remember your promise. Till
safe beyond these walls our father must not know his stretched
daughter lives — wedded to him who caused his house's ruin."

The next moment the still trembling girl was folded to Ulrick's
manly breast. A deep pang wrung the heart of the elder sister as
she saw the fond paternal kiss — a kiss her blighted cheek was destined
never more to feel — a kiss which would have been dearer to
her heart than the first smile e'en of an angel's love.

Drawing from her vest the ponderous key, with a firm hand she
applied it to the lock ; years had most probably elapsed since last
the rusty door had groaned upon its hinges. Like some surly
guardian, it seemed unwilling to give egress to the captives,
resisting all her efforts to force back the ponderous bolt. It
required the united strength of Ulrick and his companion to turn
the key within the corroded wards. At last it slowly turned upon
its axle, and the first breath of morning entered freshly the
narrow passage.

Free ! " exclaimed Robert of Artois, drinking with delight the

tire air to which for ten long years he had been a stranger. " I
have dreamt of this, prayed for this, and it hath come at last.
Relenting Heaven hath heard the lonely captive's supplication, and
Bent him forth for vengeance and atonement ! "
• " We shall meet again," said Myrra, in an under-tone, to her
sister. " Promise me that we shall meet again."

"No tears," murmured Ethra, calmly — "no lamentation now!
Yes, we shall meet again ; if not on earth, at least in heaven, if
penitence may win my forfeit place there. Ulrick of Cranfield,"
she added, in a loud, firm tone, " haste to thy friends ; wait not
for numbers, lest thy foe escape thee. Here will I station one to
give thee ingress to the Norman's hold. Once there, thy sword
must do the rest."

The second night from this," replied our hero, " thou mayst
expect me. Oh every hill the Saxon torch shall gleam, on every
breeze the Saxon banner float. Yes, Ralph de Gael, a nation rises
in its strength to crush thee. These towers, the scene of thy polluted
sway, shall fall before the cry of liberty."

Let it but sound," added his deliverer, " and fearfully my acts
shall answer it. Away ! " she exclaimed, impatiently ; " each moment
of delay is fraught with danger to thy safety."

Despite the entreaties of Ulrick and the silent pleadings of her
sister, Ethra remained firm in her resolution not to accompany
them ; her soul was fixed on the accomplishment of her fearful
destiny, and she resolved to meet it calmly and alone.

'Tis past ! " she said, as after repeated efforts she succeeded in
rolling back the ponderous door which shut her from liberty and
those she loved, for ever — " life's last weakness is past, and the
few hours which remain are due to prayer, to penitence, and
vengeance. My heart is lighter now that I feel a father's curse
will not rest upon his poor girl's grave — armed with his forgiveness,
I dare to hope for Heaven's. No weakness," she added, as with an
impatient gesture she dashed aside the tears which, despite her
resolution, chased each other down her burning cheek ; " no vain
regrets, no weak, relenting pity. Here will I wait, and watch the
hour whose sound shall strike for freedom and for justice, shall
calm the tempests of life's stormy passions, and bring this weary,
long-worn, restless spirit peace."

Seating herself upon a rough fragment of the fallen arch, Ethra
passed the first hour of her lonely watch in silent, fervent prayer.

As soon as the fugitives emerged from the ruined towers in
^vhich the secret passage terminated, Robert of Artois bade adieu
to his companions, and directed his steps towards the convent,
Avhere, after much difficulty, he succeeded in obtaining an
interview with the prior, and making himself known to him.
The indignation of the monks was boundless at the outrage offered
to their order in the person of their bz-other. In its first burst,

CC 2

they threatened nothing less than death and excommunication
upon the Norman governor, whose tyranny and exactions they
had frequently felt in common with their oppressed and insulted
Saxon neighbours.

Despite the secrecy with which the arrest of Ulrick had been
conducted, the news soon reached the ears of the insurgent
leaders, and spread dismay amongst them. It required all the
influence of Arad and his son Edward to prevent many of the
lesser franklins and chiefs from returning to their homes.
Without Ulrick to conduct them, they looked upon their cause as
hopeless ; so well they knew, not only his skill in war, but the
influence his name exercised with the serfs and people. His
sudden appearance amongst them, therefore, the morning after
his escape, decided their deliberations ; the shout of joy which
welcomed him was as sincere as the relief from their uncertainty
was great. In an instant Edward was by the side of his loved
Myrra, whispering those thousand tender consolations which love
so well can utter.

Welcome ! " cried Arad, grasping the hand of his recovered
friend ; " think not we have been idle in your cause ; this very
day we marched to share your fate, or tear you from the tyrant's
cruel power ; but say," he added, " how fell you into his hands ? "

By Saxon treachery," replied Ulrick ; " the cause so oft of
England's weakness in the hour of trial. Ethwold, to revenge my
refusal of his proffered union with my child, betrayed me to the
Norman."

The name of his betrayer was received with a shout of
execration by the assembled chiefs.

And how escaped ? " they demanded.

By the remorse of one who long hast lived a wretched victim to
her wayward passions, but in whose heart all trace of Eden is not
yet extinguished. Despite her thrall, she feels her country's
wrongs — despite the tie which binds her to its tyrant, will avenge
them'

Her name ? her name ? " was demanded on all sides.

That," resumed our hero, " have I still to leftrn ; this packet
tells the rest of her sad history."

Ulrick hastily broke the silken thread which bound the
parchment Ethra had given to him ere he left the dungeon. It
contained a ring, and a tress of her long, dark hair. For a few
seconds he gazed upon the trinket with mute surprise, deeming
that memory had played him false, or that he had seen the gem
before.

Surely," he murmured, " I have seen this glittering toy in
happier days ! It was Matilda's ! given on the morning that I
called her bride. Thou precious bauble, in whose magic circle
recollection, with enchanter's power, recalls to mind past scenes of

happiness and joys long fled ! Something," he added wildly, " she
told me of her home destroyed — her father, long thought dead.

Could it ? No, no — I should have known my child ; and yet

this ring, once the fond pledge of chaste, connubial love, gives
token of a dreadful tale to come. Read, Myrra, read, and save me
from the rack"'

With a trembling hand he passed the parchment to his equally
agitated child, whose eyes could scarcely decipher the few
characters, so blinded were their orbs by tears. In a voice broken
by sobs and sighs she read :

Father, mourn not for Ethra ; in freedom's cause she dies —
happy at last if thy forgiveness rest upon her grave''

The writing fell from her hand as she concluded, and with a
burst of grief she threw herself into her father's arms, who
remained for several moments as if transfixed to stone — his misery
so vast that at first he neither felt nor comprehended its extent. As
it gradually broke upon him, the tempest of his soul became
terrible, his hand wandered over his burning brow, as if to reseat
reason on her tottering throne ; and when at last his words broke
forth, they but faintly indicated the agony of his tortured mind.

"My child," he murmured ; "my lost, suffering child ! left by
her father in that den of crime ! Nature, that now canst struggle
with convulsive throes, why wert thou silent when in agony she
cried to be forgiven ? Earth should have shook, the heavens sent
forth portentous and prodigious signs, to see a father murder ^ 't?
own child ! Yes, chieftains," he added, gazing wildly on the
assembled Saxons round him, " unknowing whom 1 judged, I,
sternly zealous for my country's good, praised her resolve, and let
her stay to die."

Horror ! " said Arad ; " thy child ? "

Ay," continued the agitated parent, with a burst of passionate
love ; " my elder born — the first fond pledge of my connubial bliss,
is by her father doomed and sacrificed. Friends, these tears I am
not used to shed flow from me like a girl's. Bear with me ; Nature
will claim her rights, despite the heart's resolve, or cold philosophy's
stern reasoning. The weakness past, I am once more my
country's."

Drawing his mantle over his visage, the speaker retreated to a
short distance from the assembly to commune with his heart, and
seek consolation where, in life's shipwrecks and the storms of
passion, weak, erring man alone can find it — in prayer. Although
the blow had been terrible, it had wounded but riot crushed his
soul ; it rose with the elasticity of faith to meet the last trial Heaven
had reserved to test his fortitude and patience. In a short time he
returned to his silent, sympathising friends, pale with the fearful
struggle he had passed, but calm and self-possessed. Many thought,
as they beheld him, they saw the stamp of death upon his face — so

cold aud colourless, so worn and rigid, his agony of soul had made
it. His was indeed the majesty's soitow. The first burst of
natural weakness past, and it became far too deep for words, too
proud for tears ; like death, it veiled its dignity in silence, and only
spoke its presence in its impress.

Calmly he proceeded to give his orders to the different leaders :
some were despatched to raise the country round ; others sent into
the city to urge the discontented citizens to join them — a task more
than half-accomplished to their hands ; as, on their arrival, they
found the indignant monks preaching not only in the marketplace,
but in every spot where a group could be collected, detailing
to their horror-stricken hearers the imprisonment and sufferings of
the tortured and persecuted Father Onfroy. The vast piles of wood
collected for the purpose on St. James's Hill and the neighbouring
heights, at the first stroke of midnight, were ordered to be fired, as
signals for the coming onslaught, which Ulrick, in person, undertook
to direct. To Edward and a party of his own retainers, who,
on the first news of his return, had marched to the place of meeting,
our hero confided the entrance of the secret passage, which Ethra
had promised should be opened to their ingress. Had he dreamt
that his child would have entailed the door, her anxious father
would himself have conducted the enterprise, and resigned to
another the more dangerous post of leading the assault without the
vv'alls — but it was not to be ; their last words on earth were spoken.
In life the heart-broken parent and his repentant child were
doomed never to meet again. When all was arranged, and not till
then, Ulrick and the weeping Myrra retired to nioiu-n together.

Our readers may well imagine the rage and terror of Ralph de
Gael when informed not only of the flight of his captives, but of the
absence of his scorned and long-neglected wife, whose remorse
and jealousy he doubted not had opened their dungeon door's. Fortunately,
the men who searched the prisons proceeded no farther than
the empty cells ; had they done so, they would have found the
patient Ethra watching the arrival of the foe, praying for the hour to
strike — the signal of her triumph and her death. The tyrant knew
too well the energy of his enemy and the danger which threatened
him not to prepare to meet it. The garrison were all recalled
within the walls of the castle, every tower was manned, the
furnaces for heating the boiling lead and oil to pour upon the
assailants were got ready ; but his chief reliance was on the arrival
of the king, to whom our readers will remember, on the first news
of the intended outbreaks, he had despatched a trusty messenger.

Let but Henry comes"' he exclaimed, " within three days, and
I will crush this nest of hornets — trample them like mire beneath
my feet. Our walls," he added, as he cast a glance around the
lofty battlements, and surveyed the preparations for the siege,
may hold the Saxon scum at bay aud mock their idle efforts."

The boaster either forgot in his pride, or was ignorant of, the
passages which conducted, one to the lonely tower where outraged
woman's vengeance watched ; the other to the cloisters of the
cathedral, by which, on a previous occasion, Ulrick, guided by
Father Oswald, had escaped.

As the day rolled on, parties of men, variously armed, might be
seen entering the city at every gate. The place of rendezvous was
the vast plain which surrounded the castle — not as now, partially
built upon and occupied by narrow dirty streets, but open and
level to the river's edge. Crowds of citizens gradually joined
them ; and even before the arrival of the more regular forces of the
Saxon chiefs, the insurgents presented a formidable array of undisciplined
numbers.

The inhabitants of Norwich had long been dissatisfied with the
tyranny and grinding exactions of their worthless governor, whose
interest had twice defeated them in their attempts to obtain a
charter for their city — a boon frequently promised and as frequently
withheld by their vacillating monarch.

Ralph de Gael was far too experienced a commander to waste the
energies of his men before the moment of attack. He permitted,
therefore, the assembling of the insurgents without attempting to
disperse them. His policy was to rest on the defensive until the
arrival of the royal forces which Henry, he doubted not, would
despatch to his assistance on the first news of the intended outbreak.
Doubly did he applaud his own prudence and foresight in
sending a messenger to the king when banner after banner of the
Saxon nobles appeared upon the ground. He saw that it was no
petty feud he had to encounter, but the strength of the Angles
arranged against him. Once, and once only, did his cheek turn
pale, as the crane-emblazoned pennon of the lord of Cranfield was
planted, amidst the enthusiastic cheers of the enemy, upon a small
rising mound almost within bowshot of the walls. Conscience
whispered him the contest about to commence was to be one of
life and death ; and secretly the tyrant prayed that Henry might
arrive in time to his assistance. The day rolled on, and still he
saw no symptoms of an attack from the tents and huts which the
Saxons erected. It was evident that they contemplated reducing
him by siege rather than assault.

Good ! " he murmured ; " the fools fall in the snare. Do they
think to starve the lion in his den ? Soon shall they find that
Norman swords are sharper than their wits ! "

Turning upon his heel with a shrug of disdain to those about
him, to indicate his contempt of the foe, he left the battlements
and descended to the banquet-hall, where the evening repast was
spread.

At the midnight hour the assailants divided their forces into
three equal parties. The first, under the conduct of Ulrick,

advanced towards the drawbridge, where a strong body of archers
and bitumen were stationed to protect the only approach to the
elevated mound on which the castle stood. Their position was
further strengthened by a numerous body of men-at-arms, who,
from the summit of the lofty tower which formed the principal
entrance to the fortress, were ready to pour down boiling lead, oil,
stones, and missiles on all who should approach the gates. So that,
in the event of the first attack upon the bridge proving successful,
the retreat of the defenders into the interior would be effectually
covered.

The second party, guided by the indignant monks, where. conducted,
under the command of Arad, to the secret passage which our
readers will remember connected the cathedral with the castle
chapel, and which would enable the Saxons to attack the building
in the rear, where perhaps it was the most assailable.

The third, guided by Edward, proceeded to the lone, round
watch-tower by the water's edge. This was the most dangerous of
all to the safety of the garrison, for it conducted to the very heart
of the stronghold. Its existence, either forgotten or unsuspected
by Ralph de Gael, baffled alike his calculation and his courage.
Little did the heartless voluptuary imagine, whilst he gave the
necessary orders for the defence, and smiled in the fancied security
of his position, that the hand of a weak woman would render his
precautions unavailing. In his pride and wantonness he had sown
the seed of desolation ; the hour had struck when he must reap the
harvest of the whirlwind and the storm.

At the first signal of the Saxons the ponderous iron door rolled
slowly upon its hinges, and Ethra, pale as her destiny, appeared
before them. The first glance assured her that Ulrick was not the
leader of the host, and her heart beat lighter. In the long lonely
hours of her silent watch her fear had been to meet her father's
eye — to listen to his voice again — to expose her stern resolve, to
perish in the ruins she had caused, to the entreaties of paternal
love, or the weak pleadings of her woman's nature.

Ascend the passage branching to the left ! " she exclaimed to
the foremost of the band ; '• it will conduct ye to your victims. I
need not tell you, let your hearts be firm and your good weapons
strong."

A shout from the eager Saxons proved that she was understood.
Despite her worn appearance — for she had neither quitted her post
nor tasted food since TJlrick's departure — and the simplicity of her
dark robe and veil, there was a commanding dignity in her manner
which enabled Edward to recognise the unhappy wife of Ralph de
Gael. Eager for her safety, he entreated her to allow him to send
her, under escort, to the camp, urging that the terrors of so fearful
a night were ill suited to a woman's presence.

I will not keep one soldier," she impatiently interrupted,

"from the work of vengeance. ' Is this an hour to think of women's
safety, when knightly blows are to be struck, and freedom to be
won ? Away, and leave me here." Turning to the men, she
added, with a voice and gesture such as Boadicea might have used
when urging her subjects against the Romans, " As ye rush on
triumphant through the halls, think of the homes your foes have
made a desert I — the blood they shed in mockery and scorn ! Let
the remembrance of your country's wrongs nerve well each arm to
strike the oppressor dead ! "

With an eager shout, the Saxons, excited by her words, sprang
forward, and Edward, despite his reluctance to leave her unprotected,
was compelled to follow in the stream.

'Tis well," she exclaimed, as the last flash of their torches
disappeared in the windings of the low subterranean passage ;
once more I am alone, and mistress of myself. Triumph, my
soul ! — exult, and taste of joy ! My genius rises o'er my foe
victorious : and this great deed satiates at once my hate and my
revenge. 'Tis worth long years of suffering to live for such an
hour as this. Yes, Ralph de Gael," she added, bitterly, " I pay
thee now for heartless scorn, neglect, insulted love. The Saxon
wife hath set the Saxon bloodhounds on thy track — the outraged
child avenged her murdered mother."

In the excitement of the moment, which partook more of madness
than of passion, Ethra continued to pace, with hurried step, the
entrance of the vault, muttering alternately words of reproach, or
giving vent to the insane expression of her triumph. Soon the
shouts of the Saxons, as they burst upon their astonished foe,
reached her, and her pale lips quivered, her dark eyes flashed with
redoubled brilliancy at the signal which told her fearful vengeance
was accomplished. Catching up a torch which one of the followers
of Edward had dropped in his haste, she began to trace her way to
the scene of blood and slaughter.

The conflict is begun," she cried ; " I go to perish in the storm
my breath hath raised."

Despite the impetuosity with which Ulrick commenced his
attack upon the bridge, it would have proved unsuccessful against
the compact body of archers stationed there had not the party of
Saxons under Edda, whom the monks had guided, burst from the
chapel and attacked them in the rear. The Normans, thus doubly
assailed, seeing all hope of retreat into the interior of the castle cutoff,
fought with desperate courage, but in vain ; the conflict became
too close to permit them to use their bows, and the missiles which
the men-at-arms stationed on the tower continued to hurl down
were not more destructive to their enemies than to themselves.
Their light steel barrels proved but an inefficient protection against
the heavy clubs with which the Saxon serfs were armed : heads
and helmets were alike crushed beneath their blows, and many

chose death by plunging into the deep moat beneath, which soon
ran purple with their blood, rather than meet it from the dc sperate
Saxons' hands.

After an hour's hard fighting the bridge was cleared, and the
assailants remained masters of the position, which, however,
advanced them but little in their general attack, for the iron-studded
gates resisted all their efforts, while from the lofty battlements
directly over them the besieged kept raining down showers
of boiling oil and melted lead, and ponderous beams of wood,
which crushed by dozens the unhappy mutilated wretches upon
whom they fell.

Ralph de Gael, who directed the defence, beheld with pleasure
the foe recoil before the destructive missiles. In the insolence of
his triumph he addressed their leader with every taunt and insult
his malice could suggest.

What ! " he exclaimed, ironically, " retreat so soon ! Strike one
blow more ! Or is Saxon courage cooled with its first check ? For
the future, women and girls shall guard our walls, and hold them,
too, 'gainst such assailants. Ulrick," he added, " had Cranfield
towers been kept like mine, my sword had found its task less easy.
I almost blush to have crushed so poor an enemy."

Coward ! — cool, insulting coward ! " replied our hero, his eyes
flashing fire at the allusion to his once happy home, " descend
from thy stronghold, and let the sword decide between us. I'll
stake my country's wrongs and rights upon the issue."

Thinks thou I am so poor a gamester ? " shouted the tyrant,
with an insulting laugh, " to risk that which is mine already ?
The gibbet, knave, and not a noble's sword, is the fit doom thy
rash presumption merits. Slaves," he continued, addressing the
Saxons, who had retreated beyond the reach of the burning shower,
Henry will soon be here ; long ere this the royal banner floats
upon the breeze. To your homes — your homes ; wait not the lion's
wrath, lest It consume ye."

The assertion of the expected i arrival of the king, who was known
to be at a day's march from the city, struck a damp on the hearts
of many, and might have produced the effect the speaker artfully
intended, had not the shouts and cries within the walls informed
them that one part at least of their attack had been successful —
that Edward and his troop had obtained an entrance to the
castle.

The tyrant's flushed cheek turned pale as the war-cry of the
victorious Saxons fell upon his ear.

The next moment Richard de Mortar, the seneschal, his sword
broken, and his gashed brow streaming with blood, appeared upon
the walls before his teiTor-stricken master.

■' What meant that cry ? " he faltered.

The foe are in our walls ; like Cadmus' sons, they rise from

earth. Our men, discouraged, murmur treason, and demand their
leader. To the hall, or all is lost."

For a few moments his chief stood as if struck by the destroying
angel's hand, so wild, so improbable did the intelligence appear ;
nor was it till the encased cries of the combatants burst upon the
air that he started from his mental palsy. Calling to his men, he
rushed from the walls, to stem the tide which Heaven had so
mysteriously turned against him. In a few" minutes the battlements
were deserted, except by the wounded and the dying who
had fallen beneath the arrows of the Saxons.

Ulrick, who judged the cause of the confusion, suffered not the
advantage to be lost ; but redoubled his efforts against the no longer
well-defended gates, which, from their massive strength, for a time
continued to defy his utmost efforts. While the assailants, with
renewed vigour, are continuing the attack, let us follow the dismayed
Norman to the scene which met his gaze within his hitherto .
deemed impregnable stronghold.

A large portion of the garrison were assembled in the great hall
of the castle fighting desperately with the Saxons, who, under the
conduct of Edward, occupied the low arched galleries which ran
round the apartment, and from which their arrows did fearful
execution upon their enemies ; the floor was strewed with the dead
and dying, whose mingled groans, yells of agony, and execrations
added to the horrors of the scene. In the centre of the hall stood
the excited Ethra ; her right hand holding a torch ; her long dark
hair, freed from the veil which she had lost in the tumult,
streaming like a meteor in the wind. Regardless of her own safety,
she urged on her countrymen to the attack, her shrill voice rising
above the din of arms as she reminded them of the wrongs and
shames their Norman tyrants had inflicted on their hearths and
homes.

Traitress ! " exclaimed Ralph, as he confronted her, " it is to
thee I owe this desolation, this ruin of my hopes. Thine Alas the
accursed hand to release my deadly foes, and bring the Saxon
hound upon my track."

Ethra surveyed him with a look of withering scorn and an
iinblanched cheek ; the haughty spirit of her race Alas on her, and
though a secret instinct told her that the dark thread of her
existence in a few moments would be severed, her heart trembled
not, neither did her voice falter as she answered him :

Monster ! thinks thou I would leave my gallant father in thy
grasp, and have the power to save him ? Isn't not enough thou
hast lured me to foul perdition's brink, but thou Av^ouldst plunge
my guileless sister in the dread abbess ? Hark to that shout ! " she
added, as the triumphant voices of the assailants, Who had just
broken in the outward gates, burst upon her ear ; " 'tis the victorious
cry of Liberty rejoicing to behold her children free. The Saxon,

the despised Saxon, hunts thee now ; the spirits of my slaughtered
kindred ride upon the storm ; the furies claim thee as their destined
prey. Soon shall they be avenged."

The passion of her tyrant was too intense for words ; surprise,
too, held him chained. His hitherto submissive victim, whose
heart he had trampled on, whose feelings wantonly sported with,
had turned like a lioness to rend him. "With a look of concentrated
hatred, he twice passed his sword through her defenceless body,
and the betrayed, unhappy Ethra fell, without one groan or sigh, a
corpse at her destroyer's feet. She had met the fate she sought.
Love, honour, happiness were lost ; and as freely as the sea-bird
dashed the spray from its soiled wing, she cast her life away, a cold
smile of triumph lighting her features even in death.

The murderer had not long to exult over his revenge, for the
voice of Ulrick urging on his followers, or calling with passionate
vehemence upon his child, alarmed him for his own worthless
safety. Calling on his esquire and a party of the most determined
of his men to follow him, he made his way over the mangled and
the dying to a corner of the hall, where a narrow staircase led to a
solitary turret, the flat roof of which was large enough, perhaps, to
hold fifty men, and which one determined sword might defend
against a host of enemies.

Turn, craven hound ! " shouted our hero to him, as he ascended
the steps. The defiance which would have followed Vv-as cut short
by a pang such as a father's heart alone could feel. His child — his
deeply loved, long-omened, repentant child — lay weltering in her
life's blood e'en at his very feet. With a cry like that a breaking
heart sends forth, he sank upon his knee beside her. The warrior
was extinct — the parent only lived within his breast.

Wake ! " he sobbed, as he pressed his lips with passionate
tenderness to her cold brow ; " wake to hear the pardon thou hast
so dearly won. Ethra — child of my love, first-born of my hope —
one look, one little pressure of thy hand ! Dead, dead ! " he murmured.
" God, my brain is on fire — my heart is broken ! "

So majestic was the grief of the bereaved parent that even his
.enemies respected it. These, however, were soon driven from the
hall by the arrival of Ai*ad and the party under his command.
The slaughter on both sides had been fearful, for Norman and
Saxon fought with all the bitterness of long-garnered hate. The
castle, with the exception of the solitary tower into which Ralph
and his party had retreated, was in possession of the assailants,
when an unexpected event entirely changed the fortunes of the
night.

Henry, who had been holding his Parliament at Bury St.
Edmund's, was in council when the missive of the governor of
the East Angles was presented to him. His indignation, as well
as that of his nobles, was extreme. That the man whom he had

snatched from justice should so ungratefully repay his mercy stung
him to the quick ; and he swore, by the oath of his race, to proceed
at once to Norwich, and execute strict justice on the offenders.
Despite the haste of his march, the battle was fought ere he
arrived. But the overwhelming force which accompanied him
rendered all resistance on the part of the victorious Saxons unavailing
; and they saw the fruits of victory snatched from them
even in the moment of success. The larger body of them retired
to their homes ; and Ulrick, Arad, Edward, and most of the chiefs
remained prisoners in the hands of the Normans.

At an early hour on the following morning a council was held
in the chapter-house of the cathedral, at which the king presided
in person. Ralph de Gael, Salisbury, De Warrennene, De Vere of
Oxford, and many barons of less note, were seated at the board.
"When the chancellor, our hero's old enemy, took his seat, the
forgeries, upon which on a previous occasion the lord of Cranfield
had been condemned, lay open on the table. At a signal from
Henry, Ulrick and his companions in misfortune were introduced.
His cheek was pale from loss of blood and the fierce emotions
which had so lately wrung his soul. But if his step faltered from
weakness, his eye was bright and proud as ever ; it shrank not
from the stern gaze of his judges, nor called beneath the triumphant
sneer of his oppressor. Henry was the first to speak.

"My lords," he exclaimed, "we are here to judge an ingrate and
a traitor, whom I confess that, with a weakness unworthy of a
king, yielding to an angel's prayer, I saved from your resentment.
Of Ralph de Gael's administration, and the oppressions of which
he is accused, we will decide hereafter. But however they may
palliate," he added, pointing to the other Saxon chiefs, " the outbreak
of these misguided men, they excuse not the lord of Stan-field
— the plotter, the assassin."

'• The wronged, the slandered ! " exclaimed a deep-toned voice,
at whose sound all present started.

The doors of the chapter-house were thrown open, and Robert of
Artois, dressed in his priestly rags, just as Ethra had released him
from his dungeon, stood before them.

Wretch ! " he cried, fixing a glance of scorn upon the man who
had so long held him captive ; " here, within these holy walls —
here, in the presence of Heaven and of man, avow your treachery
and ririck's wrongs, detested, grovelling, most unsightly
villain ! "

Who art thou ? " demanded the chancellor.

"Ask of 3'on monster," resumed the speaker, pointing to the
astonished Ralph de Gael — " of him who for ten years hath held
me captive in a loathsome cell, till of humanity its memory only
rests — of him who, to conceal his murders, outrages, and crimes,
forced me, an unworthy priest of the Most High — by tortures

forced me to forge the proofs on which you would condemn the
preserver of your monarch's life, and crush the noblest heart that
tyranny e'er reached."

Liar ! " faltered the detected but unabashed miscreant — " what
proof ? "

What proof ! " iterated his accuser, with a cold smile, whose
serpent-like expression was far more terrible than even his
impassioned scorn. " Fear not, thou shalt hear proof enough to
satisfy the doubt of incredulity itself — to brand the festering lie
upon thy brow — to show thee to the world the monster that thou
art, and strip thee of the last defence falsehood and infamy have
left thee."

Assertion is not evidence," interrupted the chancellor, rising
uneasily from his seat.

True," said the repentant man ; " and an angel's oath would
lack conviction to a heart like thine, seared in the subtle trickeries
of office, and dead to every generous, natural impulse. Behold
the proof ! "

Hastily taking up the forged letters one by one, he laid them
before the king. Passing over them, at the same time, a sponge
dipped in some aromatic essence which he drew from his breast, to
the surprise of the monarch and his councillors and the confusion of
Ralph, a second inscription appeared beneath the first.
Henry seized the paper, and eagerly read as follows :
I, Onfroy, caligrapher, and priest of the cathedral church of
Norwich, trusting that Heaven will one day bring my weakness
and the cruelty of Ralph de Gael to light, declare that, having been
twice put to the torture, I have reluctantly consented to forge
these letters, being prisoner the while to the aforesaid Ralph de Gael."
Our readers need scarcely be reminded that the composition of
the sympathetic ink was, in the age of which we write, a secret
8 confined chiefly to the cloister.

Monster ! unsightly felon ! " exclaimed the king, as the last

letter fell from his indignant hand, " vv"hat answer for thy worthless

life — what subterfuge or subtle turn can serve thee now ? "

i " Sorcery," replied Ralph, desperately resolved to brave it to thes

last. "Relying on my innocence and Heaven's assistance, I

i demand the knightly combat."

I Henry, surnamed " Beauclerk," was not to be deceived by ana
excuse which the more superstitious of his council took into their
i serious consideration. Whilst they clustered round the councils
table to consult on the demand, the king approached the prisoner,
I whose cheek had proudly flushed on hearing the proofs of his
I innocence, but in a few seconds became paler than before.
1 "Lord of Cranfield," demanded the agitated monarch, "canst
I! thou forgive the involuntary wrong I most unwittingly have done
thee ? "

Protect my child — redress my country's wrongs," sighed our
hero, " and all is well."

Heaven ! " exclaimed the king, " he is dying ! "

His fears were but too true. Worn by loss of blood, and the
many bitter trials he had undergone, the tired spirit of our hero
was rapidly passing away to rejoin those he had loved, but
failed to avenge, on earth. His eye-lids were half-closed in death
when the voice of the chancellor for a few moments recalled him
to the world.

The battle is accorded," he coldly pronounced ; " let the sword
decide between the accused and the accuser."

The usages of chivalry with the Normans were sacred.
Monarchs and nobles alike were bound by them ; and the
chancellor and his party thought by their decision to avoid the
odium of so foul an accusation being proved against a member of
their own order. Henry heard their decision with indignation,
anger, and contempt.

Alae combat ! " he repeated ; " and with a dying man ! "

I am ready ! " faintly exclaimed Ulrick, like some wounded
lion rearing his form erect to meet the hunter's last attack ; " Avhere
is my sword ? " and weakened by the effort, he fell back into the
arms of Ai-ad. Henry pointed to his feeble state in silence

Let him appear by champion ! " exclaimed the council, in
answer to his mute appeal.

Be it so ! " said Henry, with a burst of wrath, which told the
presuming barons they had gone too far. " I'll be his champion.
Ulrick of Cranfield," he continued, taking the dying hero's hand,
I here proclaim thee innocent — the soul of honour and the light
of truth. Most foully hath thy vile accuser lied. There lies glove
— a monarch's glove shall be thy gage of battle."

Suiting the action to the word, the excited king threw his
embroidered glove upon the ground. None presumed to raise it.
The Norman nobles would have gone far to save one of their order,
but not one felt disposed to brave a Avrath which, once roused,
might consume them. Even the chancellor was silenced, for he
knew that Henry, when really excited, was capable of daring everything.
There was a solemn silence in the hall, which the monarch
v\-as the first to break.

No answer ! " he exclaimed. " Away with him, then ! De
Vere, \o\x act as marshal. In ten minutes let the trumpet's breath
proclaim that he hath met a felon's doom."

Despite his protestations, Ralph de Gael was dragged from the
assembly, and in a less space of time than even the king had
announced, the fearful signal was heard, and his last sigh passed
from him on the gibbet.

Uh'ick," said his champion, " preserver of my life, I have
avenged thee."

•• More," answered our hero, with a last effort : " thou hast
preserved my honour. All is over, and the prediction of the
prophet priest of Croydon is accomplished."

I remember," added Henry ; " a life of honour, a soldier's
triumph, but a broken heart."

A smile of gratitude passed, over the features of the dying man,
as he fixed his last look upon the speaker. That smile remained
after the spirit of Ulrick had passed awa^-.

Most of the Saxon chiefs were pardoned, Henry kept his
Christmas at Norwich, aud granted the citizens their first charter,
in compensation for the exactions which they had suffered from
their unprincipled governor, who was found to have amassed
enormous wealth by his oppression. Before the monarch left the
city, the marriage of Myrra and Edward was solemnised in the
presence of the Court by Robert of Artois, who did not long
survive his restoration to liberty, but was found dead at the tomb
of Ulrick, whither he went daily to offer up his ]prayers.

End of vol. l

3 0112 042047024

OF THE

U N Veracity

or Ill Noise

SnoGls
V. 2>

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/stanfieldhallhis02smit

By J. F. SMITH,

AUTHOR OF

'' minnigrey;' 'woman and her master;

« WILL AND THE WA F," Etc.

Illustrated hy SIR JOHN GILBERT, R.A.

STANFIELD HALL.-YOL. II.

LONDON :

BRADLEY & CO., 12 and 13, FETTER LANE, Eg.

MDCCCLXXXIX.

PRINTED BY C. W. BUADI.r.Y And CO,

12 And K?, FETTER LAKE, Eg.

VOL. IL— CHRONICLE OF THE HEIRESS.

CHAPTER I.

In 1515 Henry VIII. reigned, and Wolsey swayed the destinies of
the English nation. The moral portraiture of the menai-ch and his
minister presents the same peculiarities which their likeness,
painted on canvas by the united pencils of Titian and Rembrandt,
might have done : masses of glorious colouring — brilliant, dazzling,
and life-like — starting from deep and gloomy shadows — the contrast
of the sunbeam and the thunder-cloud, midnight and the glare of
noon. Europe in the beginning of the sixteenth century presented
a gallery of living portraits such as few ages have seen. The
magnificent Leo X., the astute Charles V., the gallant Francis I.,
Henry, Wolsey, Luther, Erasmus, and Melanchthon, all left the
impress of their minds upon the destiny of the world.

Henry at this period began to manifest, although but slightly,
that distaste towards his Avise which ultimately led to the downfall
of his favourite, and the separation of the kingdom from the
Church of Rome. In estimating the character of this prince, it
ought to be remembered that the marriage with his brother's
widow was a political one, and that he was a mere boy when it
was contracted. Henry VII., touched by remorse, it is said, on
his death-bed, had strongly advised him not to fulfil the contract,
which Warham, Archbishop of Canterbury, despite the dispensation
of the Pope, never could be brought to approve. Unfortunately,
the interests and opinions of his father's ministers and
council prevailed ; and six weeks after he became king he gave his
hand to the unfortunate Catherine of Arragon — a princess who had
actually been married to his elder, and afterwards affianced to his
younger, brother the Duke of York.

This inauspicious union, from the very first, was distasteful to
the clergy and a great portion of his subjects, who justly considered

VOL. II. B 2

that the bull of Julius II., which dispensed with the canon of the
Church, was granted by that pontiff more from the desire of
embarrassing his enemy, Louis XII. of France, by thus cementing
the alliance between England and Spain, than a due consideration
of those higher motives which ought to have guided the head of
the Catholic world.

We ha^^e touched thus lightly upon the subject at the commencement
of our tale, to avoid those dry historical details which might
interfere with its progress and action, and to enable our readers to
understand that Henry was not altogether swayed by caprice in
seeking to dissolve a marriage so opposed to the prejudice of the
age and the faith of his subjects, many of whom regarded the
death of his sons by Catherine as a punishment for his incestuous
union.

At the period at which our tale commences, Wolsey had attained
as a subject all but the climax of his ambition ; the great seal of
England, held by the primate, Warham, alone was wanting to
complete his authority. Rome had decorated him with the purple,
and his confiding master had bestowed on him not only the
archbishopric of York, but the rich see of Durham, the abbey of
St. Allan's, which he held in commendam, and the revenues of
the bishoprics of Bath, Worcester, and Hereford, the incumbents
of which being foreigners, residing in Italy, were glad to compound
with the haughty cardinal for a pension in lieu of the income of
their preferments. From these resources the magnificent churchman
displayed a state which rivalled the Crown in pomp. He had lords
and knights in the number of his household servants ; when he
said Mass in the royal chapel, two dukes presented him the water ;
indeed, so tenacious was he of this service, that it is said the cause
of his enmity to Buckingham arose from that haughty nobleman
insultingly emptying the basin at his feet after he had unwillingly
performed it.

The usual crowd of idlers were assembled on the rude
embankment near the tower of London, to Avatch the unloading of
a foreign ship which had cast anchor on the preceding
night. Amongst them might be counted City 'prentices, with their
short clubs and saucy looks, idling away their m-asters' time ; old
sailors, who were past service ; merchants, eager to receive their
long-expected merchandise ; bowmen, on their way to the archery
grounds — large unenclosed fields, lying between Shoreditch and
the river ; besides the usual proportion of citizens' wives and
daughters, who, with the curiosity natural to their sex, were
gathered in little neighbourly coteries, commenting on the appearance
of the crew of jolly, fresh-looking Flemings who manned the
vessel.

More broadcloth from Ghent ! " exclaimed Master Sleeveboard,
a rich draper of Cheapside, as he eyed the carefully-packed bales

which were being landed on the wharf. " Surely the produce of
our English looms might content the gallants of the Court ; but no,
forsooth ! nothing but ■ foreign braveries will go down with them.
I have not sold an ell of honest linsey-wolsey these three days ;
and the taxes, we all know, my masters," he added, " must be
paid the same ; trade or no trade, money must be had."

Shame ! " cried several who stood round ; for the complaint
was a popular one, the City being extremely dissatisfied at the
preference given to foreign traders and their goods by the Court ; a
dissatisfaction which, a few years later, broke out into serious disturbances,
and cost the lives of many of the citizens.

At the last tourney at Greenwich," observed a member of the
company of the Passamentiers, or Embroiderers, " his grace of
Buckingham was the only noble who wore English branding on
his trappings."

A cheer for the Duke of Buckingham ! " exclaimed the crowd
who had gathered round ; " he is a true Englishman."

And a friend to the Commons," observed one.

Of the blood of John of Gaunt," added another.

If you love him," observed a grave, elderly personage, dressed
in a mulberry-coloured gown and hood, " the less you remind his
enemies of" his descent the better. Henry loves not those who
stand too near the Throne. The hart is a gallant beast, but it is no
match for the lion."

This allusion to the armorial bearings of the king and duke was
perfectly understood by the people, who at that time, from the
frequency of pageants, tilts, masques, and processions, were better
acquainted with the devices of the nobility than even are the
better classes of the present day, so hath the noble science or
heraldry unfortunately fallen into disuse.

"How are the imposts to be paid," demanded a burly little
citizen, " if wee are to be inundated with foreign goods ? The last
war sweated the City sorely, and there are whispers of another
benevolence."

"Not a word against the war," cried a young fellow, an
armourer by trade, whose jaunty cap, rapier, and love-locks gave
him a rakish appearance ; " I'll not hear a word against the late
war. I am an armourer. Live and let live. I sold more blades
and corslet in that one year than my father did in all the late
king's reign. Besides, did not the emperor himself take soldier's
service under our noble Henry ? "

Ay, and a general's pay," interrupted several.

Ask Martin, of St. Paul's, if the tent of cloth of gold in which
the recruit was lodged was ever paid for ?" added Sleeveboan''

The war cost half a million."

And what advantage did we gain by that ? " shouted the
crowd.

Advantage ! " iterated the armourer with indignation ; "-why
we beat the French, and Henry won the city of Tourney."

'' And the cardinal," quietly added the stranger in the mulberry-coloured
gown and hood, the same who had just before rebuked
them for their imprudent zeal for the Duke of Buckingham,
obtained the bishopric — the usual division between intelligence
and strength, or Church and State — the king the shell, the subtle
priest the oyster. What, in the name of fortune, will he aim at
next ? "

The great seal, perhaps," suggested Sleeveboard timidly, for he
liked not speaking of his eminence of York ; " he hath long had an
eye to it, and will not withhold his hand."

Or the Papal chair ? " observed the armourer, with whom
Wolsey was no favourite ; " sure that might content him."

Would anything content him ? " continued the stranger.
Once Pope, he would quarrel with St. Peter for his keys ; he hath
an appetite more greedy than his fortunes ; besides, who ever yet
beheld that rara avis, a contented priest ? "

At this last speech there was an instant pause in the conversation
— if that may be called such where every speaker vociferated at
his pleasure. So great was the terror which Wolsey's name
inspired, from his arrogance and well-known vindictiveness of
character, that few men cared to mention him ; in fact, Henry
himself was scarcely more feared than his all-powerful minister.
The old substantial citizens, therefore, walked quietly away, leaving
the indiscreet stranger, and a knot of the lower classes, such as the
'prentices and sailors, standing by themselves upon the quay. Of
the better order, the armourer alone remained, and he continued
for some time to eye the speaker with a look of droll surprise ;
the former met his gaze as if perfectly unaware of the effect his
words had produced.

Thou hadst more care for the duke's safety than for thine
own," quietly observed the young man at last.

Perhaps not," said the stranger ; '* at least my purpose is
answered."

And that was ? "

To get rid of the meddling citizens — fellows vrho attend to
every man's business except their own — who grumble at cent, percent,
upon their dealings, calling it scant profit."

"■ You expect merchandise, then," observed the armourer, " by
yonder vessel ? "

I do."

Contraband ? " continued his questioner.

Ay — wilt thou assist me ? There is a broad noble to be won."

At this moment a boat put off from the ship. Instead of bales of
goods, it was charged with three passengers — a lady and a child,
together with a male attendant. The latter was a burly, honest-looking

Englishman, of about forty, whose bronze face toil that he
had been exposed to the wars ; whilst his round, half-bald head,
short neck, and broad shoulders, gave a sort of bulldog character
to his appearance. The female, who was dressed in deep mourning,
was evidently in the last stage of consumption. The hectic colour
on her thin cheek contrasted painfully with its unearthly
whiteness ; her attenuated hand shook as she held the dark veil
which partially shaded her features, and which her feeble strength
could scarcely retain in its place against the gusts of wind, which
was blowing freshly. A beautiful child, with long, curling hair,
and blue, thoughtful eyes, was seated next her, endeavouring, with
infantine grace and watchfulness, to prevent the breeze from
incommoding her mother, by assisting to hold, with her little
hands, the rebellious veil in its proper place.

Behold the merchandise I expect," coolly observed the elder,
fixing his eyes intently on the boat. " Mother, child, and servitor,
all three are there " ; and he counted them deliberately upon his
fingers as he named them.

And they are your wife, child, and servitor ? " observed the
young man, curiously ; for he began to suspect, although but
vaguely, that the intentions of the speaker were anything but
friendly towards the travellers ; besides, there was something
unnatural to him in designating human beings as merchandise.

A momentary contraction of the muscles, as if a spasm had
suddenly seized him, passed over the countenance of the stranger,
as he answered with the monosyllable, " No," in a voice so cold
and iron-like, it sounded as an ice-drop as it fell.

Occupy not thyself with me or with my motives, young man,"
he said, in his usual tone, in answer to the look of mute inquiry
with which the armourer regarded him, " since both are past thy
scrutiny. Enough — I am of those who pay for service rendered.
The task I ask of thee is easy to perform."

And honest ? " demanded the young man, doubtfully.

And honest," continued the speaker. " It is but to follow yon
strangers through the City, and bring me word where they reside.
There," he added, " is a piece of gold for thy present service ; its
fellow shall be thine on thy return. Are we agreed in this ? "

We are — where shall we meet ? "

At St. Paul's Cross — before the vesper hymn."

With this understanding the two strangely-assorted companions
parted ; the elder, evidently wishing to avoid recognition, drew
his velvet hood over his face; the younger observed, as he did so,
that his fingers were encircled by gems of price, such as by the
sumptuary laws none but a noble might presume to wear.

The young man, Cuthbert the armourer, whom we have thus
introduced to our readers, like most of the City restorers of the
day, possessed more heart than head — more courage than prudence.

Accustomed from the very nature of his trade to the profession of
arms, there were few skirmishes with the City Watch in which he
failed to bear a part ; but as he was ever ready to stand up for his
ward, and bore a good character, these little outbreaks had hitherto
been winked at by the alderman, whose niece, it was whispered,
more than shared her uncle's partiality for the handsome craftsman.


Although, from the wars, feuds, and quarrels — to say nothing of
the tournaments of the age — he was seldom without work, it Alas
quite as seldom, from his reckless generous habits, that he had anything
beyond a few silver pennies in his purse ; and the lightly
won golden noble, together with the promise of a second, elated
his spirits accordingly.

Faith, friend Cuthbert, thou art in luck's way," he muttered to
himself ; " thou nights have hammered long enough at the forge
ere thou hadst put a rose noble in thy pouch. I don't half-like
the duty I have undertaken, though," he added, musingly ; " it is
but the lurcher's part to dog these strangers. If I thought the
stranger meant them falsely, I'd cast his gold into the Thames, and
warn them of their danger."

The words had scarcely passed his lips when the boat reached
the landing place, and the pale, sickly lady, leaning on the arm of
her attendant, and holding the child by the hand, made her
appearance on the quay.

Thank Heaven," she exclaimed, " good Steadman, we are once
more in England. 'Tis sweet to tread my native shores again,
though I return to lay my bones there."

Pshaw ! " said the blunt yeoman ; " the air of England will
bring back the rose of health into your cheek. I begin to feel the
benefit already" he added ; " I am as hungry as though I had not
tasted food since we sailed from the Low Countries, where, God
willing, would we had never been ! "

The sigh of his lady, and her tearful glances at the garments of
her Widowhood, told him his wish was understood.

Cuthbert, who had been eying the party for some time, as if to
assure himself that he was right in his surmise, hastily approached,
and slapping the stout servitor on the back, saluted him by the
name of " uncle."

Uncle ! " repeated Steadman, suspiciously ; " well, perhaps I
am, for I have a springal of a nephew much about thy age ; but
since I am thine uncle, tell me my name. I have been so long
absent in foreign parts that I have almost forgot the sound of it."

Whj, Steadman, to be sure — Uncle Steadman," replied the
young man, with a smile whose frankness might have disarmed
suspicion's self ; " the same who followed my mother's noble
foster-brother, the knight of Stanlield, to the v.-ars, now ten years
since ; and who promised, the evening before his departure, to

take me with Mm ; but, like most uncles when they promise,
broke his word."

Cuthbert, boy, give me your hand ! " exclaimed the old soldier,
now fully convinced of the identity of the speaker. " Blame thy
mother's tears at the dread of parting with thee for my broken
word, and bear me no ill-will. Is my sister living yet, or have thy
scapegrace follies broke her heart ? "

Living ; and, praise to my namesake, holy St. Cuthbert, well."

Alone ? " demanded her brother,

Alone ! " said the young man, with a look of surprise ; " yes,
quite alone, unless you choose to reckon me something in her
household. But why these questions, uncle ? Surely you cannot
doubt a welcome from your sister's son ? "

Steadman and his suffering mistress exchanged a few whispered
words together ; he was evidently urging something to which she
yielded a reluctant assent.

But may we trust him ? " she demanded. " Remember what
fearful perils still surround us."

To be sure we may ; he is the son of your late noble husband's
foster-sister, and my nephew. He knows me well, though the
stripling is so grown that I had v^^ell-nigh forgotten him. He
knows, too, that I would brain him with as little remorse as I
would set my heel upon a viper, should he prove treacherous."

You may trust me, lady," said Cuthbert, taking off his cap and
■ standing respectfully before her, for his young heart was touched
by the sorrowful expression of her countenance, and the hand of
death so evident upon it. " I am a thoughtless, gay fellow, too
much addicted perhaps to shooting at the butts, wrestling, and
quarter-staff ; and when the cry of ' Clubs and 'prentices ' is heard,
am generally first upon the causeway ; but I never yet broke
confidence, or betrayed a fellow-creature in my life."

Yes, mama, you may trust him," said the child, quietly ; " his
eyes do not shift and fall, and blink, as Robert's used to do ;
besides, he is Father Steadman's nephew, and must be faithful."

Be it so ! " sighed the lady. " Lead us, young man, to your
mother's dwelling. Though poor in seeming, and hunted by my
foes. I am not without the means of rewarding fidelity."

The speaker, exhausted with the effort to speak, immediately
resumed the arm of her companion, and Cuthbert passed before to
guide them on their way, revolving as he did so, what extraordinary
scenes a child so young must have passed through to have
been so precocious an observer of her fellow-creatures.

After winding their way through several of the narrow; streets,
the party emerged into Cheapside, and stopped at a small but
substantial house, known by the sign of the Golden Sword, the
lodge of Cuthbert's handicraft; such ensigns in the reign of
Henry VIII. not being, as now, confined to hostels and wine-houses,

but common to all trades. Having assured himself, by
careful observation, that they had not been followed, the young
man led his guests through the well-furnished shop into a neat, low
room at the back of the house, where his mother, Dame Maud, sat
plying her needle, and waiting the return of her truant son. The
greeting between Steadman and his sister was affectionate and
sincere ; he was many sears her senior, and she looked upon him
almost in the light of a parent as well as brother. No jar of
worldly interests had ever passed between them, to lessen the
bond of love. They had both been poor — sorrow had been their
sole inheritance, and they had divided it ungrudgingly' together.
Nor was the widow of the good Sir Richard Cranfield and his
orphan child made less welcome. Maud felt a grateful pride in
being useful to her high-born guests, and as soon as the first words
of welcome, surprise, and salutation were' past, conducted the lady
to her own quiet chamber, and entreated her to repose.

Whilst the hostess is thus hospitably engaged, it may be as well
to enlighten our readers as to the circumstances under which the
widow and infant heiress of a race for which, we flatter ourselves,
they have long since felt a devisee of interest, returned as fugitives
to the land of their birth.

Calais still formed a portion of the English possessions in
France ; it was the key to the country — the door by which our
armies could always enter, during the long and desperate wars
which raged between us and our Gallic neighbours. The defence
of the city and territory round it, known hj the name of the
March, was generally entrusted to a soldier of high repute ; it
being considered the most honourable as well as dangerous, post
the crown could confer. The pride of the English nation, from
the highest to the lowest, was gratified by the barren honour of
this possession ; and nothing perhaps tended to alienate the
affections of her subjects from Mary so much as the ultimate loss
of it. They could have pardoned her marriage with the Spaniard,
the judicial murder of Lady Jane Grey, and the burning of the
bishops ; but the loss of Calais was a death-blow to her popularity.
The people never forgave it ; and the unhappy queen, when dying,
frequently was heard to exclaim that Calais would be found
engraved on her heart.

Sir Richard Cranfield, the last of his ancient race, nine years
before the commencement of our tale, had espoused the only
daughter of Walter de Many, deity-governor of this so long-disputed
city ; and being of an adventurous disposition, easily
yielded to the entreaties of his wife to remain in France, that she
might not be separated from her father. A year after their
marriage, their only child, Mary, was born. When Henry, in his
war with Louis XII., yielded to the persuasion of the Emperor, and
attacked Tourney, both Sir Richard and his father-in-law accompanied

the chivalrous monarch in his expedition. The latter fell,
full of age and honour, during the siege, in fighting by the side of
his king, whose life he saved by the sacrifice of his own ; for a
party of Walloon Lansquenettiers having recognised the royal person,
and surrounded it, the brave old knight kept them at bay till a
party of English cavalry, in their turn, came up and rescued them
the monarch living and unharmed, his defender a corpse.

This act of devotion induced Henry, who was not then ungrateful,
on the taking of the city a few days afterwards, to name
Sir Richard Cranfield governor, much to the jealousy and anger of
many who thought they had a better claim to such an honour ; so
true it is that kings seldom can reward one friend without creating
a dozen enemies. Such always has been, and such, I suppose,
always will be, the character of courtiers. During the knight's
absence from England his estates were administered by his kinsman
Sir John de Corbey, a proud, ambitious, disappointed man, whose
fortune had been squandered in the wars in Italy, where he had
been a partisan of the house of Medici in their aggressions upon
tie liberty of their country.

Sir Richard's conduct in his government secured him during five
years not only the commendation of Henry, but what at that time
was of far more consequence — the approbation of Wolsey. Still it
was certain that he had some secret enemy. Several times, when
out on a reconnoitring party, he had been shot at in a way which
proved that the ball could only have come from one of his own
men. Despite the entreaties of his wife, and the warning of his
friends, all of Avhom attributed the attempts to the vengeance of
some unsuccessful rival, he refused to resign his office, urging that
it was one of honour as well as danger, and that, come what would,
his enemies should never say they frightened him from the post
his sovereign had confided to him.

This resolution, as chivalrous as rash, proved fatal. His body
was one morning found ujDon the ramparts, where he had incautiously
made his rounds without the attendance of his faithful
esquire Steadman, pierced through the back by the blow of one of
those long spears or partisans which sentinels use, evidently foully
murdered by one of his owen garrison. Strange as it may appear,
the hatred of his enemies did not end here : scarcely were the
funeral rites performed, than various suits Avere begun against
his widow in the courts of equity and common law in the city, who
found herself unexpectedly called upon to answer for bonds for
moneys lent, of whose existence she had never dreamt, and whose
validity she, anxious for the honour of her husband, as well as the
inheritance of her child, unwisely contested. We say unwisely,
because it was the contest of the lamb against the wolf — subtilty
against unsuspicious frankness, fraud against honour. Had she at
once proceeded to England, the machinations of her enemies could

not have pursued her so boldly there. Twice an attempt was made
to destroy the house in which, with a few faithful domestics, she
resided ; and more than one plot was frustrated for the abduction
of her child. Worn out by the unequal and iniquitous contest,
the widowed lady at last resolved to fly secretly to England, and
trust to Henry's recollection of her father's services and death as a
protection against the schemes which were evidently laid for her
ruin. Gathering together her jewels and the remains of former
wealth, she embarked at night in the small trading vessel whose
arrival we have already noticed at the Tower quay, attended only
by the faithful Steadman, whose love for his late master was now
devoted to his helpless widow and his child.

'• Humph ! " exclaimed Cuthbert, as Soon as his uncle had explained
to him the melancholy story we have so briefly sketched.
And this kinsman — this Sir John de Corbey — did you never
suspect ? "

Frequently," whispered the old man ; " I know him well. He
is a man whose windings are more difficult to trace than those of
the venomed snake ; so secret are his movements, that not a trace
remains to tell the serpent has been there. Besides, he is high in
favour with the king ; and as we have no proof that he ever received
my lady's letters, it would be dangerous as well as impolitic to
accuse him."

Perhaps not," said his nephew. " Tell me, what sort of a person
is this Sir John ? "

Tall ; dark hair ; a face cold as a marble statue, and, if I err nota
heart still colder ; he hath a scar on his left cheek, from the thrust
of a lance, received at the siege of Pisa, in the Italian wars."

"• It can't be he, then," muttered Cuthbert, musingly.

He ! Whom ? "

The man who gave me this golden noble to dog you on your
arrival to your lodging," said the armourer, opening his hand and
displaying the glittering coin ; " and v/ho promised me the fellow
if I brought him word of your whereabouts to St. Paul's Cross."

This must be seen to," exclaimed the old man, thoughtfully.
Wouldst know the man again ? "

"• From a hundred, with his deep-toned, earnest voice. The devil,
when he tempted our grandmother Eve, was never half so persuasive
; he would have wiled a bird from the tree," added the
speaker, " or an abbot from his dinner."

Steadman rose impatiently from off his stool, and paced the
narrow chamber with an agitated step ; not that he doubted in the
least his nephew's fidelity ; he would have answered with his life
for that. Indeed, it seemed as if Providence had sent him especially
to. their assistance ; but he felt that an humble, uneducated being
like himself was ill calculated to act in such important matters.
He was like a child in a labyrinth, and saw no means of escape.

Cuthbert eyed him for some time in silence.

Uncle," he at last observed, " for an old soldier who has battled
in the Low Countries, you seem sadly puzzled with this tangled
skein. Shall I unravel it .? "

How, boy, how "^ Tell that, for it is past my wits," replied the
old man.

"Was not our lady one of the maids of honour to Queen
Catherine?"

True."

And this Sir John de Corbey, if I mistake not, is a favourite
with the chancellor Warham ? "

I have heard as much."

Go to, then," resumed the armourer ; " the game's not lost, play
but the last cards boldly. The cardinal, whose stomach is of a
singular capacity, e'en for a churchman's, longs for the great seal,
and piously would miss his prayers to spite his brother prelate.
The queen, whose goodness is as proverbial as Wolsey's appetite,
will lend a helping hand. Why not claim her highness's protection
? "

I have thought of that before," answered Steadman ; " but how
to accomplish it ? "

Leave that to me. My godfather is her offered. I have free
access to the palace ; I'll place myself in the white gallery as she
returns from vespers, and give it her myself ; that is," added the
young man, with a half-frown, for he liked not the doubtful
expression of his uncle's countenance, " if you like to trust me."

It is not that, boy — it is not that," said his uncle, replying more
to the thought of his nephew than his words. " I would trust thee
with my own life freely, without a word, a thought ; but must
consult my lady ere I take upon myself to act in this."

The old man passed up the narrow staircase to his sister's chamber,
and in about an hour returned with the petition of his mistress to
the queen, which the unhappy widow saw no other means of conveying
to her hand than by the agency of Cuthbert.

I bid thee be careful, boy — not faithful," he said, as he placed
the packet in his hand -, " the last I am sure thou'lt be. Double
like a fox on thy return lest any watch thee. Thou hast to deal
with subtle foes ; be thou as subtle."

Fear not for me," interrupted the armourer, at the same time
secreting the packet in his bosom ; " I know the City well ; they
must have a keen scent and a quick eye who chase me through its
windings. I'd cross their trail, and throw the best bloodhound of
them out ere they suspected that the game had doubled."

'Tis well," said his uncle, pleased with his confidence and zeal ;
but beware of force."

Force ! " exclaimed his nephew, laughingly ; " those who weld
the sword can wield it, uncle. I have not been in the Low

Countries ; but I can turn a point and give a thrust with here and
there a slasher. Ask my friends, else, of the City Watch," he added,
With a knowing smile ; " most of them bear my mark."

Without waiting for any further reply, Cuthbert buckled on a
light rapier, set his bonnet jauntily on one ear. and started on his
errand.

That very evening, as Catherine passed from the chapel-royal
with her train from vespers, Cuthbert, true to his promise, bent the
knee before her. ~

This unhappy princess, then in the very bloom of womanhood,
possessed much of the gravity as well as pride for which the Spanish
nation were distinguished ; but, although haughty and reserved
towards the nobles of her Court, who too often enticed her husband
into follies which she disapproved, she was easy of access and
affable to the poor. " They are God's children," she used to say
when any wondered at her charities ; " He blesseth those who aid
them."

As was the custom in all cases of petitions, when the presenter
was not noble, one of her highness's attendants — a tall, stately
nobleman, dressed in black, and wearing a Spanish order of knighthood
— on a motion of Catherine's hand, advanced to take it ; but
the armourer knew well the necessity, if possible, of interesting
the queen herself — petitions so received being referred to the
almoner to decide.

Not to the almoner, gracious lady ! " he exclaimed, fixing his
eyes upon her with an imploring look ; " though my jerkin be of
fustian, I am the messenger of one who is entitled to velvet and
miniver in sour grace's Court. There is a tale of sorrow to be
told, of injury to be redressed, and none may come between your
heart and you. As you hope," he added, " that our Lady will smile
upon the prayer you uttered at her shrine this night, let your own
eyes be judge of that I bring."

Catherine seemed struck by the earnestness as well as the simple
eloquence of his words ; perhaps her own prayer had been that
Henry's heart might be turned from its estrangement ; or, perhaps,
With all a mother's love, she had asked for the health of her young
child, the infant Mary, who alone survived of all the issue of her
marriage-bed. Whatever was her secret motive, she determined to
grant his prayer.

Thou art a bold knave," she cried, extending her gloved hand
to receive the packet, " to dictate in our very Court ; and we," she
added, with a melancholy smile, probably at her own little superstition,
" are as weak as thou art bold to yield to thy request. Let's
see what mighty interests are at stake that a queen's eyes alone
may read them."

Catherine retired to one of the lofty windows in the hall, and
broke the seal of the packet. At first she seemed surprised, then



interested. Her eye glanced by turns from the missive to the
bearer. Hastily tearing off the lower part of the letter, which
probably contained the unfortunate lady of Cranfield's address, she
placed the fragment in her bosom. She had lived so long in courts
that she mistrusted all.

Forgive our chiding," she said, advancing a step towards the
still kneeling Cuthbert ; " thou hast shown both zeal and prudence.
Let them guide thee still."

These last words were accompanied by a look which plainly
said, " There is danger — be upon your guard ! "

The young man felt it as such ; and he answered it by one of
respectful determination and intelligence.

Most of her attendants were intrigued and curious at the nature
of the communication her majesty had received ; but respect and
etiquette kept them silent.

Has my lord of York yet gone from Court ? " demanded
Catherine, after a pause.

Ere those around her could reply, the great doors of the hall
were thrown open, and "Wolsey, who had been celebrating vespers
in the chapel-royal, entered, preceded by the officers of his household,
pages, and the usual procession of cross-bearers and priests.
At any other moment, perhaps, Catherine would have resented his
intrusion unannounced, for she was tenacious of her rank ; but at
the present instant she required his services. The cardinal, who
deemed that she had long since reached her private apartments,
excused himself with the courtly ease of a favourite. Placing the
letter she had so lately received within his hands, Catherine
watched his countenance with a searching glance whilst he
perused it.

What think you, my good lord ? " she demanded, as the churchman
raised his eyes from the paper.

Does your highness feel interested in this ? " was the reply.

Deeply. She was one of my earliest friends in my adopted
country," she answered. " I would set my life upon her truth."

'Tis a vast pledge," exclaimed Wolsey with a bitter smile ;
and you are happy, lady, that your heart can so trust, though it
should be to be deceived. Was that youth," he added, pointing to
Cuthbert, " the messenger ? "

Catherine gravely bowed her head in affirmation, when the
cardinal immediately beckoned him towards the window, where
he was still standing with the queen.

In an instant the young man stood modestly before them.

Thou hast performed thy message," said Wolsey, " faithfully ;
return to those who sent thee, and bid them wait with patience ;
justice, though slow of step, is sure. In thy way home," he added,
if but a shadow cross thy path, start from it as from an enemy.
See that none follow thee. Give every man the crown of the

STANFIELD HALL.

causeway ; and cross thyself, and tell thy beads to Heaven when
thou reaches thy house in safety."

Are her enemies so powerful, then 1 " whispered the queen, as
the young man disappeared at the lower end of the hall.

The chancellor and his minion, Sir John de Corbey," replied
his eminence ; " a man whose path 'tis dangerous to cross. Did I
not see him when I entered ? "

He hath left the presence," replied Catherine, glancing round
the circle.

Poor boy ! " muttered the churchman with an imperceptible
shrug, as he took leave of her highness ; " his wit must be keen
and his arm strong if he reach home in safety."

On his way to York House the prelate meditated how best to
turn the occasion to his advantage ; for, despite his great influence
with Henry, the latter still retained a great esteem for "Warham,
who had been his father's chancellor as well as his own, and never
could be persuaded to demand the great seal from him. The guilt
of Sir John de Corbey, who v.^as his kinsman as well as favourite,
seemed admirably fitted for Wolsey's views ; since, could he involve
the one in the discredit of the other, he might be either forced or
driven into a resignation. Under any circumstances, he determined
to protect with his powerful interest the widow of the knight of
Cranfield ; if it served no other purpose, it would gratify the queen,
and mortify his brother prelate and less ambitious rival."

Cuthbert had reached the banks of the Thames, intending to take
boat to the city, when an arm was laid upon his shoulder, just ashe
was about to embark. He started beneath the pressure, mortified
at his Avant of precaution. The fact is, his interview with Catherine
and Wolsey had bewildered him. Turning, he saw by his side the
nobleman who had so lately offered to take his petition to the queen.

You pay little heed to the caution of his eminence," observed
the stranger, with a quiet smile.

Faith, my lord," answered Cuthbert, completely thrown off his
guard by the encounter and apparent knowledge of Wolsey's
whispered words, " I believe I have been dreaming ; but what is
your good pleasure "i "

Her highness has bethought her of your lady's suit, and thinks
it better the widow of the knight of Cranfield should be under her
protection than in her present retreat."

And where may that be ? " demanded Cuthbert, eying him
suspiciously.

*' Where, I neither guess nor seek to know," replied the stranger,
haughtily, but at the same time with an oj^en frankness, which
might have disarmed suspicion's self ; " but doubtless the messenger
will be provided with a clue. I have but to conduct you to the
house of her highness's master of the horse, and there my mission
ends."

There was something so plausible in the manner as well as words
of the speaker, that the unfortunate armourer fell into the snare.
He had seen the envoy in close attendance upon Catherine, and it
seemed the very madness of credulity to doubt him. Unhesitatingly,
therefore, he entered into a barge to which the stranger
pointed. It was rowed by four stout fellows in rich liveries, who
pushed off the moment they had received their freight, and
directed their oars towards a lofty turreted mansion on the opposite
side of the river.

So unsuspicious was the young man of the intentions of his
companion, that he followed him into the house ; nor did the
closing of the iron gates behind them, as soon as they had entered,
in the slightest degree shake his confidence. Taking a torch from
the hands of one of the numerous attendants in the hall, the noble
host mounted a stone staircase, which led to the principal tower of
the building, his victim following him. Nor was it till they had
entered a low-arched, desolate-looking room, unfurnished, hung
with tattered, antique arras, which floated with the night breeze
from the walls, that the chill of suspicion struck upon his heart.
Glancing uneasily round, he ventured to observe that it was a
strange place to await the arrival of the queen's messenger in.

It will suit our purpose," drily answered his conductor, at the
same time removing his jewelled cap and casting it upon the dusty
oaken table. " Few who enter here ever complain of the accommodation
or reception."

The act of throwing off his cap at once revealed to Cuthbert the
danger in which he stood, for the long dark plume which had
hitherto shaded the left side of the wearer's face being removed,
left distinctly visible a scar, such as a wound from a lance-head
might have made. The young man remembered the words of his
uncle, and felt that he was betrayed.

Sir John de Corbey ! " he exclaimed ; " then I am lost."

Thou knowest me, knave," said his captor. " 'Tis well ; it will
save words between us, for I am of those who do not love to waste
them. Where is the wanton who calls herself the widow of my
kinsman ? — where the bastard she would palm upon the world as
Cranfield's heiress ? "

By what right do you interrogate me ? " demanded the young
man. •

The right which rules the world — force," replied Sir John.

He struck his hands together as he spoke, when three men
immediately appeared from behind the arras ; two were common-looking
ruffians, who evidently had long been at war with humanity
as well as fortune — Mercy would have turned from them with a
hopeless eye, so strongly marked were the lines of avarice and
cruelty upon their features. They were fellows who would have
strangled the priest at the altar, or the smiling infant at its mother's

VOL. II. C 2

breast — strangled them for sport had the incentive of gold been
wanting. The third was our old acquaintance in the mulberry-coloured
gown and hood. Cuthbert had scarcely time to lay his
hand upon his sword when the two former sprang upon him, and
he was disarmed.

Thou art a faithful messenger ! " observed the last-mentioned
personage, in his usual low, musical voice, whose tones fell fearfully
upon the armourer's ear from the very absence of anger or of
passion in it.

Silence, good Adam," said Sir John ; " we complain not of the
treason, though we punish the traitor. Behold, young man," he
continued, pointing to the lower end of the room ; " tell me, what
seest thou there ? "

A dark recess," answered Cuthbert, " left in the solid wall."

What else ? "

Pile of brick and stone."

Enough to fill the entrance to that recess, isn't not ? " demanded
his questioner, with a cold smile.

Enough to fill the entrance to that recess ! " repeated the youth,
with a faltering voice. " Mean you — no, no— God ! 'tis too horrible
for human malice to conceive, or nature to endure — you do not
mean "

To what ? " demanded his tormentor, with the same unmoved
expression.

Nothing," said Cuthbert, " nothing ; one of those monstrous
dreams such as scare children in their sleep, and old men cross
their brows when they relate — a thought too wild for madness, too
horrible for truth — a thought," he added, with increased excitement,
which hell would pause to listen to, if uttered in its centre, and
laughing fiends approve."

"At last," exclaimed Sir John, "we understand each other.
Mark Avell my words : name to me the retreat of those I seek, or,
living, I'll immure thee in yon tomb. Thou shalt woo Death, and
coyly he shall hear thee ; hunger shall gnaw thee ; burning thirst
consume thee ; the screech-owl only echo back thy shrieks, and
hell and darkness mock at thy despair. Decide ; time waits for
both, eternity for one of us."

Then Heaven have mercy on me," replied the armourer, firmly ;
for I will not betray the trust reposed in me, or sell the blood of
innocence."

At a sign from their employer the two ruffians sprang upon their
prisoner, whom, after a desperate struggle, they dragged to the
recess, and, despite his shrieks and frantic cry for aid, bound him
by a chain fixed in the solid wall.

Monsters ! " said the youth, exhausted with the fearful efforts
he had made, " Heaven will avenge me ! "

It had better save thee," observed Adam, with a sneer.

The men immediately commenced their labour ; and in a few
minutes the enclosure reached as high as the breast of the victim.

Stay ! " he gasped, overcome with the terror and horror of his
doom : " if I accede to your demand, what pledge have I that you
will keep faith with me ? "

My word, slave," uttered the knight, in the same calm voice.

Or his oath, if thou canst trust it better," added his cynical
companion in villainy.

'• I can trust neither ! " shrieked the youth ; " oaths are for men,
not monsters. You would mock my simple faith — profit by my
credulity. I must die," he added ; " but God, such a death !
If you are human, show me some mercy — the sword, the cord, or
axe, but not a doom like this."

Proceed ! " cried the villain, who saw that his crimes had left
him no guarantee to offer on which the armourer could depend,
and whose death now became necessary to his safety.

The men rapidly resumed their fearful work, impatient to end a
scene which was appalling even to their ferocious natures.

Monsters ! " said Cuthbert, as the wall rose rapidly before him ;
the Heaven whose laws you outrage will yet avenge me ; my restless
spirit shall haunt ye to the scaffold ; my murdered form shall ever
be beside you ; remorse shall palsy the unspoken prayer upon your
lips. God ! " he added, " be deaf to them as they are deaf to me ;
harden their hearts ; deprive them of the power of penitence.
Avenge me, if Thou wilt not save me. Mercy — darkness — darkness
darkness ! "

The last brick was inserted in the wall, and the words of the still
living tenant of the tomb sounded faintly from behind the arras,
which the trembling executioners of their master's will let fall over
their fiend-like butchery.

You are pale," said Adam, going to an old cupboard and filling
a goblet of wine, which he presented to the ruffians ; " this will
refresh you."

After you," said one of the men suspiciously, for the gentle
Adam was held in dread and doubt by all who knew him.

Fools ! " replied the leech — ^f or such was his profession — with a
quiet smile, at the same time draining half the contents of the cup.
What isn't ye fear .? Such instruments are too useful to be parted
with ; our mutual guilt is a bond between us, as sure as death could
make it."

Replenishing the cup, he presented it to the men, who drained
it without suspicion. The next morning they were both found
dead within their beds.

On descending, after the scene we have described, into the great
hall, Adam and his master found a messenger with a summons
from the council, commanding the attendance of Sir John de
Corbey on the following morning before the king.

I have lost the game ! " exclaimed the assassin, pale with rage,
to his worthy assistant, as soon as they had retired to the chamber
of the former ; " the estates for which I stained my hand in kindred
blood are lost."

But life is saved," replied the leech ; " dead men can bear no
evidence against us."

And honour ? "

Pshaw ! " added the cynic ; *' hast lived these years to grieve fora
shadow ? Honour ! thou wilt grow moral next. Honour ! it
was thy inheritance ; fools only grieve when they have spent it."

With this sneer the confederates parted.

On the following morning. Sir John de Corbey, attended by his
minister and accomplice Adam, made his appearance in the
presence-chamber, where a scene presented itself which might
have shaken even his iron nerves, had he not been prepared to
meet it. The widow whom his machinations had deprived of a
husband and driven to the verge of madness, and the orphan whom
he so long had plotted to rob of her inheritance, were kneeling
before the throne where Henry and his queen, surrounded by
their court, both sat. Wolsey was standing near the person of the
monarch, listening to the story of her wrongs, and commenting
upon it, as she proceeded, to his master.

So, sir knight," exclaimed the impatient king, " you are come
at last to answer for yourself. God wot, but we had nearly sent in
other guise to fetch you, Knowest thou this lady ? " he added
sternly, pointing to the still kneeling suppliant before him.
" My noble kinsman, Richard of Cranfield's widow ! " said the
traitor, with well-acted affection and surprise ; " this is indeed a
joyful meeting. Why, noble lady, have my letters and my prayers
for your return so long remained unanswered ? "

Letters ! " faltered the widow ; " I received none."

Received none ! " repeated the false guardian ; " and the large
sums of money sent to your orders ? "

Never reached me," said the lady. " I have been forced to sell
plate, jewels, and all I possessed for bread."

There hath been treachery here ! " cried the knight, with so
natural an appearance of indignation that all but Wolsey was
deceived by it. He, with his usual astuteness, saw that the speaker
was acting the only part prudence and safety left him.

You admit, then," said Henry, in an undertone, " this lady to
be the widow of your kinsman,"

Who dares to doubt it ? " answered the artful villain, " or brand
the unblemished honour of your old servant, Walter Many's
daughter ? "

The allusion to Henry's preserver was well timed, and confirmed
the good impression his previous words created.

And this his child ? " added Wolsey, pointing to the infant,

whose deep, thoughtful. eyes were fixed upon the party questioned,
with an expression of intelligence beyond her year's.

*' His child and undoubted heiress," was the reply.

You are prepared, then, to resign your trust .? " continued his
eminence.

This very hour," said Sir John, sinking on his knee ; " and I
entreat my royal master to relieve me from it. I am poor — but
hitherto my honour is unquestioned. Appoint what arbiters your
grace shall please, and if they find a silver penny unaccounted fora
rood of land wrung from my kinsman's trust, I pledge my life
to make the forfeit good."

God's writ ! but we have wronged the man," exclaimed Henry,
starting from his seat ; " thy speech is far more honest than thy
look. My lord of York, see to it. Knavery must be skilled indeed
if it blind thee. Lady," he added, kindly, "old Many's daughter
shall not lack a friend whilst Henrj' lives. Embrace thy kinsman.
It seems to our discernment both have been victims of the same
deceit. Look to her safety, my lord cardinal, and follow to our
closet."

With these words the impatient Henry, who hated business, and
was anxious to depart for Greenwich, where his sister, Margaret of
Scotland, was hourly expected to arrive, broke up the presence,
and, followed by all but Wolsey, Sir John de Corbey, Adam, and
the helpless widow and her child, withdrew from the apartment.

The murderer approached, and would have saluted the widow of
his kinsman, but with an instinctive shudder she drew back. A
serpent's kiss would have been more welcome to her.

Wolsey, not over-satisfied with the turn the afraid had taken — for
he trusted to involve the patron of Sir John, Warham the Chancellor,
in the knight's disgrace — seeing the agony and repugnance of the
lady, interfered, observing that when the accounts of his trust were
audited and acquitted it would be full time to claim the kiss of
peace. Turning to one of his officers, he gave orders for the
departure of the widow and her child.

Where to, your grace ? " demanded the unabashed knight ; " to
Cranfield ? "

No," answered Wolsey, coldly ; " to the convent of St. John."

Three days afterwards the suffering, broken-hearted victim slept
the last sleep, and the orphan heiress of Cranfield was left the only
bar between the assassin and the prize he sued for. But an eye
was upon him, and, despite his daring, he quailed beneath its
glare : that eye was Wolsey's.

CHAPTER II. -

A tale of wonder, and of terror too,
Such as old men by chimney-nook relate,
When winter draws around some gossip's hearth
The listening awe-struck group.

The Lady Mary, as the orphan heiress of Cranfield was generally
named, remained for several years in the same retreat to which
Wolsey had consigned her. So fair did the investigation of Sir
John de Corbey's guardianship, which took place upon the death
of her widowed mother, appear, that no reasonable motive could be
assigned for depriving him of his trust, and he still remained in
the management of her vast possessions. He was no vulgar
gamester — the stake he played was for character as well as life ;
and every species of forgery and artifice were resorted to by
himself and his agent, Adam, to account for the large sums
appropriated to the furtherance of his schemes of ambition. Even
in the blackest natures one trait will still be found, one link
between humanity and Eden's forfeit heritage. Cold, subtle, and
remorseless as was the heart of her false guardian, it was not for
himself that he had sinned, but for his son, the impoverished heir
of his proud name ; doomed by his father's extravagance, crime,
and folly, to that worst of fates — a noble beggar's. Henry de
Corbey was two years younger than our heroine, a gallant noble
boy, whose mind, nurtured by high thought and feeling, was free
from every worldly stain, from every selfish passion ; with him
the beautiful in nature or in sentiment found a ready worshipper ;
his soul was framed for the ideal, and, like the sensitive plant,
recoiled at all contact with the base and worldly. He was a youth
such as the noble Surrey might have modelled, or the fair
Geraldine have loved.

It was in vain that Adam, to whom his education was entrusted,
sought to fashion him to his own dark purpose ; no matter how
artful the veil which hid the poison of his lessons, how specious
the sophistry, his pupil rejected them, and, by a species of mental
analysis, separated the good from evil. So sudden and startling
were at times the intuitive perceptions of the scholar, that the
atheist and cynic were tempted to exclaim, " Hath this thing a
soul ? " Opposite as were their characters, the guilty father
proudly and passionately loved his son : in him every ambitious
thought was centred, every future hope and wish ; for him alone
had he sinned, and the motive of his crime was made at last his
punishment.

Sir John's communications with his ward during her residence
in the convent were chiefly made through the medium of his
secretary, a young man of decayed but noble family, named Walter
Lucas. His father had been the knight's companion in the war in

Italy, had fallen fighting by his side, and he deemed his promise
of providing for his orphan son amply fulfilled by appointing him
to a station in his household. Young, ardent, and chivalrous, it is
not to be wondered that the ripening beauty of the Lady Mary,
now merging into womanhood, made an impression on his heart ;
and that, although his lips were silent, his eyes were eloquent
with thoughts of passion. Repeated interviews confirmed the
dangerous feelings, and, despite the disparity of their fortunes, the
madness of his hopes, the poor dependant loved. Mary became
the star of his existence, the dream of his young life : if he
sighed for honours, it was to raise him nearer to her sphere ; if he
wished for wealth, it was to render him more worthy of her. Like
some miser, he garnered the precious secret in his breast ; lived
with it, prayed with it. She was the idol of his heart's shrine ;
his very soul offered its incense to her.

The heiress possessed that peculiar style of beauty which
Eaffaelle might have loved to paint, or Petrarch to immortalise ;
the intellectual blended with the corporeal, the aerial with the
earthly ; feeling and sentiment beamed from her dark blue eyes,
which were so deep) and clear in their expression that love and
purity seemed to have made their homes there. Add to the
portrait a nostril delicately chiselled ; a mouth formed like Cupid's
bow, from which a breath exhaled sweet as the last fragrant air
which Adam drew from Eden's half-closed gates ; and auburn
hair falling in wavy masses, like a cloud of gold, over her neck
and bosom. Imagine this, and you complete the picture.

Her step was grace ; her bosom's swell

Seemed like love's own gentle pillow—
A nest for young desire to dwell —

A sea of sweets — a snowy billow.

On the secretary's first visits, the orphan received him with a
diffidence which soon gave way to smiles at the warm interest he
expressed in all that could contribute to her happiness. How
mistaken have those poets been who describe love as timid ! Those
who really read the human heart will find that it makes weakness
strong, and hath a courage peculiarly its own. On one occasion,
while on his way to the convent, Walter rescued a dove from the
beak of a falcon ; the bird was slightly wounded, and in the
instinct of its terror flew into his very arms for protection ; its
disappointed pursuer wheeled slowly round his head, and sailed at
last majestically away. Not daring to present it as a gift, he
ventured to implore her compassion for his lyroiege — a prayer at
once accorded. A pang of jealous envy struck his heart as he
beheld the gentle girl place the trembling flutterer on her breast,
and cover it with kisses. That bird Alas the first tie between them.

From welcoming him with smiles the maiden soon began to
receive him with blushes — to count the time which would elapse

before he should return ; and more than once her virgin dreams
were of him. The presence of the abbess, or some member of the
sisterhood, on the occasions of his visits, prevented more than the
interchange of looks ; but these, to lovers, have ever been more
eloquent than words ; and at last the enthusiastic, happy Walter
felt convinced he was beloved, as though her lips confirmed the
blest assurance.

Despite the vague feeling of childish terror which the Lady
Mary retained of her guardian, it was almost with satisfaction she
was informed that Wolsey had consented to her being withdrawn
from the convent, and placed under his protection. Henry
himself had recommended it. The crafty knight had secured the
friendship of the brother of the rising favourite, Anne Boleyn ;
and the cardinal, all-powerful as he was, deemed it imprudent to
oppose it ; added to which, he had nothing but surmise and vague
objection to offer — so artfully had Sir John contrived to keep
down all suspicion.

It was not till the heiress reached her own halls of Cranfield that
the secretary found occasion to breathe the tale his glances had so
often told, or that he received in words the blest assurance that he
was beloved. Trained in the simplicity of conventual life, Mary
was ignorant of the coquetry of her sex — the thousand little arts
by which they enhance the value of their smiles. In the
frankness and truthfulness of her heart, she confessed their
passion to be mutual; and although her cheek burnt at the
confession, it was with a blush as pure as infant joy's or virgin
modesty's.

Amongst the first to welcome our heroine on her arrival at
Cranfield was our old friend Steadman, who, on the death of her
mother, had settled at Norwich, where he introduced the Flemish
manner of wool-combing, which he had acquired in the Low
Countries, and drove a profitable trade. Our readers may imagine
the delight with which this faithful servitor beheld the child of
his loved master, from whom he had so long been separated.
With almost a father's fondness, he admired her graceful form and
ripening beauties, and prayed that her fate might be happier than
her parents'. Indeed, nothing but this species of devotion to the
memory of the past, so common in the servitors of the olden time,
could have induced the blunt old soldier to have remained a single
instant under the same roof with Sir John de Corbey, whom he
looked upon, with reason, as the cause of the mysterious disappearance
of his nephew, the unfortunate Cuthbert, the armourer ;
Avhose murder, he used to say, Heaven would, in its own good
time, both discover and avenge. Maud, his widowed sister, whose
wits had been unsettled ever since the loss of her only son, resided
with him. Like her brother, she too was impressed with the fixed
idea that Sir John was the assassin of her boy ; and although

gentle as a child at all other times, the sight of the man she hated,
or the mere mention of his name, excited her fury ; and she
would fall upon her knees, and curse him as only a mother's
broken heart could curse.

For a month after the return of Lady Mary to her paternal halls
there was nothing but a succession of feasts and mirth. The only
drawback to her happiness was the persevering boyish passion of
her cousin, Henry de Corbey. Young as he was, his heart had
long pined for something to cling to. The graceful girl appeared
to him like a sunbeam in his path. She was the realisation of his
dreams — ^a thing to love, to serve, and worship. Did she wander
on the terrace, he was by her side — in the silent nook of the forest,
he was at her feet, pleading his suit with an eloquence and grace
which nearly drove poor "Walter mad with jealousy, but which,
with woman's tact, the orphan playfully turned aside as the light
language of chivalry and romance — meeting his burning vows
with smiles and jests. As a brother, she could have loved him for
his generous qualities, his daring spirit, and his open heart — his
scorn of all things mean and earthly. Perhaps, had not her heart
been won — boy though he was — he might have gained an interest
in time : some boys are dangerous.

But soon a more serious cause of apprehension clouded her clear
brow.

Despite the disparity of jeers between them, Sir John de
Corbey became a candidate for the maiden's hand ; not from love
for his heart had long been dead to every passion but ambition —
but as the means of securing those possessions for which already
he had so deeply sinned. Although his ward tremblingly declined
his offer, it was evident to all that he still retained his pretensions ;
and, like the patient bloodhound which never quits its track,
persevered in attentions which, he trusted, would in time weary
the unprotected girl into consent.

The intentions of her guardian at last became so apparent that it
was commented upon in the household — several of the old retainers
of which, as well as the chaplain, were indignant at the attempt to
profit by the friendless condition of their young mistress, to weary
her with a match so unsuited to her years and inclination.

Were our young lord," observed the steward, "about five years
older, the lady might do worse than to choose him. He hath a
noble spirit and a generous heart."

Had the speaker known how keen a pang his words inflicted
upon the unhappy "Walter, who sat listening on thorns to the
discussion, he would have pitied him. Despite the secretary's
efforts at self-control, he could not forbid his cheek to flush or lip
to quiver ; and his confusion was still further increased by the
observation of Adam, who was seated in a nook of the old hall,
apparently poring over the quaintly illuminated page of a rich

manuscript, but in reality watching him with furtive glances.
The leech suspected him.

For my part" observed the seneschal, " I never thought Sir
John possessed a heart to love aught but himself. What can be
his motive for persevering in a suit distasteful to his ward,
dishonouring to his years ? "

Necessity ! " exclaimed Bertha, the attached female attendant
of the heiress ; " a rich wife to mend a poor fortune."

Necessity ! " repeated the chaplain, impatiently ; " a mean
excuse for a still meaner action. Let him amend his ruinous style
of living — he else must leave his brave son a lean inheritance."

Right, right," chimed in Adam, with his usual quiet tone ;
"retrenchment, by all means. Half his retinue he might well
dismiss, part with his steward and his servitors ; a chaplain, too,"
he added, with a peculiar smile, " in such a household, were superfluous."


The merry laugh which followed the last observation roused the
temper of the priest, between whom and the speaker a species of
silent warfare had long waged. The churchman, with the instinct
of his profession and natural piety of his heart, hated the sceptic
and the medicine ; the leech despised the unlettered chaplain.
Strange that between science and religion the seeds of enmity ever
should be springing.

Out on thee, heretic ! " retorted the worthy man. " Wouldst
have a knight of worship like Sir John dine with his meat
unblessed ? "

The expense, father," continued the leech, unmoved by the
opprobrious epithet the former had bestowed upon him, '' consider
the expense ; four-score marks a year and dainty living —
something too much, methinks, for mumbling homilies and
doggrel Latin."

The question of Latinity was a sore subject between them ; the
man of science treating the churchman's monkish learning with
most superb disdain : indeed, the latter had so frequently been
wounded in the contest, that he prudently avoided the subject, and
took refuge in the religious side of the question, where the cynic
was compelled, in words at least, to be respectful ; for the
persecution against the Lollards was raging at its height.

Out, heretic ! " exclaimed the chaplain with a look of horror,
Rail at the Holy Mass ! Beware ! the Church's arm can punish."

Several of his hearers, to prove their orthodoxy, piously crossed
themselves ; and even Adam feared that he had gone too far.

You wrong me, father, with a forced construction," he replied.
I spoke not of thy doctrines, but Latinity ; in which, as Holy
Church claims no infallibility, I, or any other man, may call thy
skill in question. Heaven forefend' I should attack tliy faith,"
added the speaker with an affectation of humility ; " it is a thing

too "Sublimated for human reason to analyse, — at least a reason
weak as mine."

Thy words," said the ecclesiastic gravely, and not altogether
displeased at his antagonist withdrawing from a position where he
was master, "deceives not me; no, nor thy feigned humility:
thou hast deeply studied."

Not much — not much," said the leech musingly. " Sometimes
before my eyes dreams of far distant lands will rise — of marble
palaces — of gilded domes, which in my youth I saw, or fancied
so — of shrines where science was the goddess worshipped — of
silent temples, whose eternal walls breathe the deep spirit of the
painter's art."

You speak of Italy," exclaimed Walter, deeply interested in
his words ; for it was not often that the cold and reserved Adam
could be brought to dwell upon the subject of his country, or the
events of his early years.

Ay, of Italia," continued the old man mournfully ; " of that
land where art and nature, like two rivals, strive in generous
emulation. I have stood within her temples — breathed her balmy
air — gazed enrapt upon her sculptured treasures, till the soul hath
e'en been drunk with beauty ; but still found her choicest statues
in her living forms."

As if ashamed of the weakness and garrulity he had displayed,
the leech closed the illuminated page over which he had been
poring, and slowly quitted the hall. His departure was the signal
for breaking up the conversation. The worthy chaplain retired to
his devotions — or his bottle ; for he was not of those who despise
the creature comforts of existence. Bertha, to attend her lady in
her usual walk ; and the amorous secretary, as the poet quaintly
expresses it, " to chew the cud of sweet and bitter fancies," or to
watch patiently but for one glance from the blue eyes he loved.
Despite his confidence in Mary's faith, and the hopefulness so
natural to youth, his heart was ill at ease. The persevering siiit of
the knight aroused his fears, and the boyish love of the son his
jealousy ; for he could not avoid feeling there was something in
the gallant bearing of the noble, generous boy to touch a woman's
heart. He had not been long ensconced within his favourite
bower upon the old terrace-walk of Cranfield, before his mistress
and her attendant, followed by the passionate, loving Henry,
approached ; and he was compelled to remain the concealed
spectator of a scene which wrung his heart and awoke his
admiration.

But one poor kiss, sweet coz," exclaimed the youth ; " grant it
as you would alms to a beggar's importunity ; if not from charity,
from weariness. They deal in fable," he added, " who assert that
Heaven is won by prayers ; I find it deaf to me."

For shame,, rude boy ! " answered his cousin, half-playfully,

half-petulantly, determined not to treat his suit as serious. " A
kiss ! — your beard would frighten me."

"Manhood lies not always in the beard," replied the youth
quickly. " In hawking for a husband, Mary, cast not your bird
that way, lest you should find the quarry struck more precious in
the plumage than the substance. You call me boy ; methinks 'tis
time you treat me like a man, since you deny me the boy's
privilege — a cousin's kiss."

"Why, Henry," said the unhappy girl, "why follow my sad
steps to pour a tale whose mirth is sadness to me ? "

Why do I follow thee ? " repeated the amorous boy, fixing on
her a look, and blushing at his own boldness. " Because I love
thee ! Thou hast a pearly skin, and a red lip, whose pouting
blush invites a thousand kisses ; a figure whose light grace haunts
me in my dreams. But 'tis not these," he added ; " 'tis thy mind,
seen through the glorious veil of these its outward graces. Let
me be sworn thy knight."

What ! " exclaimed Bertha, who in her own heart would have
preferred the handsome boy to twenty secretaries ; " wouldst rival
thine own father ? "

Henry de Corbey started, and, perhaps for the first time in his
life, his cheek turned pale. An idea so preposterous as a marriage
between his cousin and his father never once struck him. From
delicacy, Mary had concealed her guardian's tyranny from his son,
whom, despite his importunities, she loved with a sister's love.
The proud and generous boy spurned at the thought of such a
sacrifice.

"Rival my father !" he repeated gravely. "Maiden, this is
some ill-timed jest."

My lady finds it none," answered the attendant petulantly ;
for the knight woos not with smiles, but threats."

Threats ! " said Henry, his eyes flashing with indignation ;
who dares accuse my father of dishonour.? This is some loose
talk — the gossip of the hall, bred from invention and mere
idleness. Mary," he added, throwing himself upon his knees and
seizing her hand, " thy words are truth ; thou hast a soul too pure
to lend to falsehood even the sanction of a look : is this thing
so?"

"It is," faltered the lovely girl, her neck and brow suffused
with a thousand blushes. " Would I had been born a beggar ! "

What ! " continued the youth, starting to his feet, " mai-ry my
father ! Couple age with youth ! Bid the dull stream of sluggish
winter and of genial spring in the same current flow ! Oh ! never,
never ! Nature revolts at such an outrage. No, Mary, no !
Thou shalt not change thy girlhood's smile into a stepdame's
frown ; the opening bud of love's first flower shall not wither on
the icy breast of heartless age. Love whom thou wilt," he added

passionately, " my arm shall aid thy choice ; wed whom thou wilt,
my breaking heart shall bless it."

Despite his resolution, and the manly tone in which he spoke,
the effort was too much for him, and tears of mingled rage and
grief chased each other down his burning cheeks. Vainly he
endeavoured to dash them aside — vainly endeavoured to conceal
them ; he was Nature's child, and had not yet acquired the art of
smiling on the pangs which turned his heart to ashes, or bearing a
calm front with the iron hand of shame upon his soul.

You were right, Mary," he exclaimed, " quite right, to mock
my childish suit. I prove myself a boy by these unmanly tears.
Do not despise me for them ; I am not yet accustomed to
dishonour "

Thou art my own dear noble-hearted cousin ! " replied Mary ;
and these tears honour thy manhood, not disprove it, Henry.
Come, thou shalt be my friend — Heaven knows I need one — my
knight, my brother."

Brother ! " repeated the south with a sigh ; " well, be it so.
I'll prove a brother to thee, watch over thy happiness like a miser
over his most precious treasure, seeking contentment in the task,
since I have lost my own."

The speaker sadly turned away to leave her.

Whither goes thou ? " asked the Lady Mary.

To my father ! " replied the boy, with a degree of resolution
beyond his years.

What to do ? "

To plead thy cause — to purge this foul dishonour from his
heart," said her cousin ; " to bid him choose between this madness
and his son , to show him in a mirror the monster he hath
engendered in his brain, till he shall loathe and scorn it. Farewell,
dear Mary ! Soon shall I see thee smile again, glad in the light of
thine own heart, thine innocence and virtue. Doubt not my
eloquence when 'tis for thee I plead."

The sad-hearted boy left her on his generous errand as he spoke.
Scarcely had he left the terrace, than Walter, who had been an
agitated spectator of the scene between the cousins, emerged from
his concealment. He was too just not to appreciate the maiden's
confidence and his young rival's worth. The agitated girl advanced
to meet him ; placing her hand in his, she sobbed, as he knelt to
press it to his lips :

Walter, our dream of happiness is over. The evil fortune of
my house prevails, and we must part."

Part ! " said her lover. " Dost thou, then, repent the love
which blessed the humble secretary ? "

Are these sad tears," replied the unhappy heiress, " the proofs
of love estranged, or faith decayed ? But I am beset with snares,
with terrors for thy safety ; my guardian "

Loves thee," added Walter, finishing the words her lips refused
to speak.

Call it not love ! " exclaimed his mistress ; " profane not the
pure frame. Base avarice is the shrine at which he worships — to
restore ijne fallen greatness of his house his fixed ambition, and I
the sacrifice. By lingering here thou wilt but pull destruction on
thy head, yet fail to rescue me. Too well thou knowest," she
continued, " his stern, unbending nature. Alone I have the heart
to brave the storm, yet not to share it with thee. Fly, then, at
once ; for oh ! I see no haven for our fears — no power to save me
from the last despair."

Yes ; Wolsey's," replied her lover ; " he whose all-powerful
arm shielded thy infant years from thj- false guardian's tyranny."

"Wolsey's ! " repeated the maiden ; " he hath abandoned me.
"What chance — what hope to interest him in my fortunes ? "

Listen," said Walter ; " when boys, my father and the cardinal
were friends — sworn confidants in stiidy, pleasure, mischief.
Some childish words divided them. One morn, when walking on
the banks of the swift Orwell, which skirts their native city, my
father's ears were struck by the faint cry of a spent swimmer.
His jerkin doffed, he plunged into the stream, and bore the half-drowned
soul to shore. Twas his quondam friend."

Did he not, in his greatness, remember the preserver of his
life ? " demanded Mary.

The great have treacherous memories," resumed the youth.
Ere my father > died, he left a letter for his grace, begging
protection for his orphan son ; I have it still."

Why didst thou not present it ? "

Dost thou ask why ? " said the secretary, gazing upon her with
earnest tenderness. " What was to me the chance of earthly
favour — of buzzing, like some hapless moth, around the lamp of
greatness, to perish at last, perchance, within its blaze — if it removed
me from thy presence, lady ? "

Mary would never have known the sacrifice of Which her lover
spoke so slightingly, but for the hope he entertained that it might
not yet be too late to use the letter as a means of saving her.
Generous herself, she had never considered the inequalities of
their fortune ; and if for a moment she remembered her high
lineage and broad lands, it was to wish them ten times greater, to
bestow them on the man she loved. Hers was a heart Which in
the fulness of its love, could all bestow, without vaunting, like a
churl, the value of the gift ; and yet she felt the sacrifice of
Walter, so apt is sensibility to weigh the merit in another it sees
not in itself.

Didst thou for me resign the hope of life — the step which
leads to greatness?" she exclaimed; "my weakness must not
shame thy noble nature. Let the storm rage, it still shall find me

firm. My heart shall draw fresh courage from thy pure devotion.
Death may divide our hands, but not our loves ; but never shall
the faith once pledged to thee be given to another."

The maiden raised the cross which hung from her rosary as she
spoke, and pressed it to her lips ; and Walter — for the moment
the happy Walter — bent the knee before the idol of his soul, and
pressed with impassioned lips the hand dearer to him than the
richest treasure earth possessed or Heaven itself could bestow.
His dream of happiness — like most dreams of happiness in this
world — was doomed to be brief ; for Adam — who, like Satan
watching the first pair in Paradise, concealed behind the
balustrades of the terrace, had observed their interview — advanced
with his usual stealthy step from his lurking-place. He took no
notice either of the secretary's position or the Lady Mary's
confusion, but seemed to regard them both as the most natural
circumstances in the world. The fabled basilisk, it is said, is
never more dangerous than in repose. Such, at least, was the case
with the cold, subtle agent of Sir John de Corbey's unnumbered
villainies.

Our lady," stammered the secretary, endeavouring to hide his
confusion, "had conferred a favour on her servant, when you
stepped in, and "

*' Broke the current of your gratitude," added the old man, with
a sarcastic smile. " She is a liberal mistress."

What mean you ? " demanded the young man, impatiently, for
he liked not the look or manner.

What should I mean .? " replied the intruder, in the same
sneering tone. " The blush upon her cheek doth but betoken
kindness to a menial, and in thy shifting eye I read thy heart's
true character. Thou wouldst not deceive me," he added,
ironically, " wouldst not lie to screen thy lady, e'en though she
loved her servant."

Turning from the young man as if he deemed it waste of time
to continue the discussion, he addressed himself to the heiress,
informing her with an air of mocking respect that her guardian
wished to speak with her.

'fly ! " whispered Mary to the secretary, as she passed him on
her way to the hall. " Wolsey is now our only hope." The close
attendance of Adam prevented any adieu beyond the look which
accompanied the words ; but that was eloquent as love could
make it.

I must away," exclaimed Walter, as soon as he was alone upon
the terrace. " Soon as Sir John hears of my daring passion my
life well be beset. Those who have crossed his path had better
live, cameleon-like, on air : though yon cursed leech has skill
enough to poison the very atmosphere I breathe, so even that were
dangerous."

VOL. II. D 2

As the speaker descended the steps which led from the raised
walk to the open grounds, two of the knight's foreign retainers
sprang upon him, and, despite his resistance, he was borne to a
strong room at the top of the loftiest tower of the hold ; the
window of which, it is true, was unbarred, but at such a distance
from the ground that nought could fall from it and live. A cloak
had been thrown over his head to stifle his cries ; for the young
man was so beloved, that many of the household would have
drawn their swords in his defence, despite the terror which the
knight and his minister, Adam, universally inspired. Here the
captive was left to meditate alone ; a thousand times did he curse
the imprudence which had betrayed his secret, and indulge in
gloomy anticipations of the future.

The Lady Mary found her guardian seated in the library of Stan-field,
a low-arched room, which received its distinctive appellation
from a few books and manuscripts kept in an ancient oaken press,
where many of the deeds and charters concerning th estates were
likewise preserved. A village schoolmaster of the present age
would have smiled at such a library ; but in the reign of Henry
VIII. it was thought sufficiently considerable to merit an especial
notice in the chronicles of the Monk of Comtesse — a ^vTiter whom,
in the course of our work, we have before referred to.

'you summoned me. Sir John," said the trembling girl ; f or
years had not diminished the texTor which in childhood he had
inspired her with,

I did," replied the knight, leading her to a seat ; " for converse
which concerns your happiness and mine. Why," he added, taking
her hand, " are you thus obstinately blind to your own good ?
Rank, observance, and respect await my bride — a noble state my
widow."

Such," said his ward, "are to me superfluous -, nobly born, I
need not their advantage. Besides," she added, " ask your own
heart, do they give happiness ? "

A philosopher ! " exclaimed her tormentor, with a sneer.

No, sir," replied Mary, spiritedly, " a (christian. I have no wish
to wed ; the difference of our years renders this suit impossible.
Be generous, then, and urge the theme no more be just to your
own honour, lest men should say Sir John de Corbey broke his
kinsman's trust, and gained by fraud the lands he failed to win by
blood."

Hitherto the conduct of his ward had been so submissive and
respectful, that the knight was both astonished at her firmness and
stung by the knowledge of the fact her words conveyed. The
scenes of terror and distress which in her infancy she had experienced
had never been effaced from the memory of the thoughtful
child, but had been pondered over from year to year, almost from
day to day.

The relations of Steadman, too, and the wild, melancholy ravings
of his mad sister, had impressed her mind with fearful doubts of
her dark guardian's character.

The thrust had been a home one, and for a few minutes he
regarded her with a glance of cold and stony hatred, which, while
it "made her young heart beat with terror, served but to confirm her
resolution,

And yet," he said, regarding her with an insulting look, " this
cold, coy, and contented maid can love in secret, and, forgetful of
her blood, receive the homage of a menial's heart. Mary of Stan-field,
thou art disgraced ! "

The blush which suffused the cheek of the fair girl at the brutal
words was in itself sufficient refutation : Morning might have envied
it for its purity — Innocence have offered it to Cruelty for its justification
; it was a witness fresh from the heart— pure as the life-stream
which coloured it. She felt that the moment had arrived
when further concealment would not only be unwise, but useless ;
and trusting that her lover was already on his way to implore the
powerful protection of the cardinal, she answered with the courage
of insulted virtue :

'Tis false, sir knight ! Nay, frown not at my boldness," she
added ; " the pride of innocence and womanhood compels me now
to speak. Walter's love is pure and generous, and cannot disgrace
me He does not seek to raise his fortunes by wreck of my
happiness ; he would not force me to the arms of wrinkled age —
extorting vows love only should bestow "

'' Insulted, rejected ! " interrupted De Corbey, pale with passion,
and for a peasant ! ''

Peasant ! " repeated Lady Mary, scornfully. " He hath a
prouder title, sir, than king ere gave or herald's pen inscribed —
Nature's nobility, a generous heart ; besides, I have often heard you
yourself declare that Walter's birth was gentle."

Let him prove it, then, before his judges."

His judges ! — of what crime can you accuse him ? " demanded
the astonished maiden.

Of an attempt to steal an heiress from her guardian's trusty"
replied the villain. "Wisely our laws protect the high-born maid
from the weak promptings of her yielding heart, guarding the
honour of a noble line left in such frail keeping. In wooing thee
Walter hath sinned against the law. He is my prisoner, and his
doom "

Mercy ! " exclaimed the agitated girl, all her assumed firmness
giving way at the thought of her lover's danger, which, from the
law cited by her guai-clian, she knew to be no imaginary one ;
kinsman, mercy ! "

Like some pleading angel, she sank upon her knees before her
persecutor, who surveyed her with a dark smile of triumph, for he

fancied that he had found the means to bend her resolution and
mould her to his purpose — the means of Walter's danger.

Mary," he answer-ed, calmly, " I will be just."

At this moment Henry de Corbey, eager to have an explanation
with his father, entered the apartment. From one of his attendants
he had just heard of the secretary's arrest, but he wisely kept that
knowledge, and the resolution he had framed in consequence, to
himself. When he beheld his cousin kneeling at the feet of his
stern parent, his agitation for a moment deprived him of his
firmness ; recovering himself, he passed between her and the
knight, and raising her, said in a tone of gravity beyond his boyish
years :

"Rise, Mary, rise — nor shame my father's manhood by your
knee,"

Retire, Henry," cried her persecutor, ashamed of being detected
in an unworthy position by the son for whom he had so deeply
sinned, and of whom he was so justly proud. "Leave me to guard
the honour of our house,"

Your pardon sir," replied the youth, respectfully, " bu* we are
both its guardians. Mary," he added, leading her to the door of
the apartment, " leave me to reason with my father. Fear not for
Walter," he whispered ; " I possess the means to save him."

The kind look of sympathy and affection which accompanied the
words of her cousin gave hope to the despairing victim's heart.
She knew the truthfulness and devotion of the being in whom she
trusted. " Be cautious," she replied, in the same low tone, as she
left the room ; " he is your father — urge not his wrath too far."

As soon as they were alone, father and son for a few moments
regarded each other in silence. The high-minded youth had
hitherto treated his parent with almost childish obedience and
respect ; and this sudden opposition to his will was as astounding,
therefore, as it was unexpected.

Art thou, indeed, my son ? " demanded the knight, with a look
beneath Which Henry would once have quailed.

"Thy wretched son," replied the youth, mournfully ; "for my
happiness was built upon my father's love — my pride upon my
father's honour — now dust and ashes both. Father, is this the way
to fill thy kinsman's trust ? Knaves betray the living — cowards
the dead : retrace thy steps, lest men should call thee both."

The guilty man was struck, but not moved from his fixed purpose
by the sorrowful appeal. The very admiration which he felt for
the courage, generous impulse, and lofty bearing of the speaker,
determined him more strongly than ever, no matter by what
means, to atone the wrong he had done him by squandering his
inheritance. The thought that the gifted being, the heir of his
proud name, must struggle through the world with life's bare
competence — a mere adventurer, with no fortune but honour and

this sword — was madness to him. He had sworn to rebuild the
greatness of his house, even if he perilled his soul in the attempt.
Unable to reason with the youth, he thought to overawe him.

Boy," he exclaimed, trying to assume a look of outraged dignity,
Retire to your studies ! "

Such scenes," replied Henry, firmly, " change boys to men,
throw age upon the heart, turn youthful smiles to manhood's lines
of thought. What means this persecution ? I will not shame thy
ears to call it love. Would that I wronged thy honour to suspect
it avarice."

Finding that evasion or concealment with his son was no longer
poss able, the knight of Corbey motioned him to a seat beside him.

'* Henry," he began, " though of strong passions in my youth,
once, like yourself, I had a generous heart ; the time has been when
death had not one terror like dishonour — when I believed the
world all truth, and trusted its delusive smiles — when friendship
was not, as now, a so and without a sense to my dull ear, or love
a stranger to my heart. I trusted all — by all to be deceived. In
Italy, that land which hell hath decked to look like paradise —
where serpents lurk 'neath flowers — whose very air, fanning the
ashes of unhonoured age, revives the dormant passions they should
hide — I entered as a soldier into life. I will not tire thy patience
with my career. Enough, I mixed in the intrigues of courts,
drained pleasure's cup e'en to its bitter dregs, revelled in beauty
till its sweetness palled me ! What was my fate ? The prince I
bled for sold me to the foe ; my triumphs hurt the ingrate's vanity ;
the love I sinned for sought a richer dupe ; fortune, which smiled
upon my early youth, was quits with me in manhood. I was left
a beggar."

And if left with honour, left with everything," interrupted
Henry.

I will not die one," sternly resumed the speaker. '* I will, at
least, redeem thy heritage. Justice, and nature, as her nearest
kinsman, gave me the disposal of the Lady Mary. I offer her no
unhonoured name, no undistinguished hand. Not a word," he
added, seeing that his son was about to speak — " thou mayest as
well try to arrest the meteor in its course as turn me from my will.
If the path be crooked, I alone shall trace it. How couldst thou
bear a life of poverty ? the jests of bloated wealth ? the pity of thy
equals ? the sneers of thy inferiors ? Never — never — ! The
honours of our house shall not end in a beggar's dish and wallet ! "

Deeming that he had sufficiently impressed his son with the
necessity of the sacrifice of his cousin at the shrine of interest, he
left the apartment, his haughty soul stung to the quick at the
explanation he had been compelled to offer, and unable longer to
endure the alternate glances of astonishment and shame the
unhappy youth cast on him.

Heaven ! " he exclaimed, " and is this man my father ? the being
I have hell in honour — fancied the model of all chivalry ! Surely
some demon hath possessed his mind, poisoning his better native.
For me — for me he sins. "What were the wealth of worlds bought
with a tear from Mary's eyes — one stain upon the honour of my
name ? I swore to be her knight — boy as I am, I'll keep my oath.
Perchance," he added, " she may love me in my grave. Yes, Mary,
yes ; I'll save thee from my father's selfish passion — my father
from himself."

With this resolve the youth retired to his apartment, there to
plan the means of putting into execution the noble purpose he had
formed of freeing Walter from his prison, and watching over Mary's
svdetj.

A stormy night had closed the eventful day we have endeavoured
to describe. The wind whistled mournfully round the lofty tower
in which the prisoner sat ; his food untasted — Adam had brought
it to him ; and, although tormented with thirst, he feared to touch
the draught within his reach. The old man's skill in poison was
no secret to him. One after another, the various instruments
employed by Sir John had disappeared or suddenly died, till at
length the members of the household began to look upon their
master's confidence as a dangerous favour, and shank from it with
terror. Still, so artfully the murders, if murders they were, had
been committed, that no tangible evidence had been found to fix
the crime. One fellow, who had been heard to mutter threats,
died in the servants' hall on opening a letter which some stranger,
it was said, had left for him at the gates. The leech pronounced it
apoplexy. Another expired after being bled for a fall from his
horse. The old members of the household shook their heads, but
prudently remained silent,

"Thus ends my dream of life," murmured the prisoner to
himself ; " hope bids farewell at the door to those who enter here.
Fool ! I was amply warned, but, like the giddy moth, have lingered
round the flame whose fii'e at last consumes me. I burn with
thirst," he added, " but fear to drink."

Fearful lest the thirst which tormented him should overcome
his resolution, with a blow of his foot he shivered the earthen
vessel containing the water, which he justly feared to be poisoned.

I'll not die like a drugged cat in this old tower ! " he exclaimed ;
they shall not make me accessory to my own murder. Oh ! '" he
added, impatiently, " but for one hour of liberty ! I'd use the gift
so well, they should have swift steeds who caught me."

At this moment a tapping at the window was heard. At first the
captive, deeming it the fluttering of an owl attracted by the light
within his chamber, paid slight attention to the signal ; but, on its
being repeated, he hastened to the casement, and to his admiration
as well as terror, found Henry de Corbey hanging by a rope which

he had fastened on the battlements above. The wind was so high,
and the weight of the youth so light, that his form vibrated fearfully
in the air at the dizzy height at which it was suspended, alternately
appearing or disappearing, like some spectre floating on the winds,
before the eyes of the prisoner. His features were pale, not from
the danger of his position, but from the recent agitation he had
undergone.

"Are you unfettered ? " he demanded ; and again a gust of wind
blew him from the casement.

I am," replied the prisoner, when the wind brought the youth
within the sound of his voice again.

*' Follow me, then," said the boy ; " the cord is strong enough for
both of us. Stay, I will slide down a few feet lower to leave you
space — 'tis well."

Suiting the action to the word, the adventurous boy permitted
the rope to glide through his hands till he had descended some tenor
fifteen feet lower, when, twining it over his arm, he paused in
his descent, till he beheld the prisoner emerge from the casement
of his chamber and follow his perilous example. It required botha
firm eye and a strong hand ; the cord vibrated fearfully against
the side of the lofty tower, like the pendule of some giant clock.
Fortunately, the young men both reached the ground in safety.
Walter would have expressed his gratitude for his deliverance, but
Henry stopped him.

You owe me nothing — away ! You will find my horse saddled
and ready by the Druid's well. Waste not the moments precious
to safety by words of thriftless gratitude."

*' But Mary ? " interrupted the secretary.

Is safe whilst I have life. The angel which watches (ewer
innocence will not prove more faithful to his trust than I shall."

With a silent pressure of the hand the young men parted —
though rivals, they esteemed each other — walter to the Druid's
well, where, according to his deliverer's direction, he found a
gallant steed awaiting him ; and Henry to the tower, to remove
the rope by which he had effected the escape of the prisoner.

Great was the anger and confusion of Sir John de Corbey on the
following morning when informed of his secretary's escape. Adam
and two trusty domestics were immediately despatched in pursuit,
while he himself, with the unhappy Lady Mary, now little less
than a prisoner, removed from Cranfield to a mansion which he
possessed in Norwich. There the household were entirely devoted
to his purposes, and the heiress would be effectually removed from
those who might protect her.

CHAPTER III.

Though human cunning hide each sinful deed
In its recess, dark as the womb of time,
Justice at last shall break each barrier through,
Holding the guilty and the proof to light.

"Well did the gallant steed on which the fugitive was mounted
answer to the rider. In less than an hour the distance between
Cranfield and Norwich was passed in safety ; and there did the
breathless Walter first draw rein. Like a Will-o'-the-wisp he had
dashed over bog and fen, forded the stream, skirted the wood, and
galloped down the rough broken road, till he reached St. Giles's
Gate — a massive, loft^^ tower, built with flint and stone, long since
consigned by the cupidity and brutal ignorance of the corporation
to destruction.

Few cities have more suffered from the Vandalism of its rulers
than the capital of the Angles. How many monuments of the
religious, civil, and domestic architecture of our fathers have they
not destroyed ! The fine old keep of the castle erected by Roger
Bigod in the reign of William the Conqueror remained almost
uninjured till 1824 : 'tis true the elaborate Norman carving was
much time-worn, grey, mouldering, and weather-stained, giving it
that tone of antiquity which painters love ; but it was determined
to restore Norwich Castle, or rather " smarten " it, as the authorities
profanely called it ; and the plan chosen was the very worst which
could possibly have been adopted — that of entirely reading it. In
the new stone facing which the old keep now carries, the arcades
and tracery have been copied, but the effect produced is just as if
a noble antique statue had been restored by chipping away the
entire surface, and replacing it hj an imitation of vulgar workmanship.
All that rendered it valuable is gone for ever, and it is
atoned for by a cop", to make which it was necessary to destroy
the original. Fit instrument for such a sacrilege, Wilkins, of
National Gallery fame, was the architect selected, most probably
because he was a native of Norwich. What other city could have
produced him ?

It is not often that we indulge in digressions foreign to our tale ;
such of our readers as have mourned over the destruction or
degradation of the monuments of their birthplace will sympathise
with and pardon us.

Much as Walter wished to consult his old friend Steadman in
the emergency in which he found himself placed, he dared not
venture to enter the city ; but, turning to his right, skirted the
moat and walls till he arrived at St. Stephen's Gates — since
destroyed by the same barbarians — and broke into the high road
leading direct to London, Although the night was dark, Walter
had not passed the post unobserved. The citizens kept careful

watch, for disputes were running high between them and the prior
and monks of the cathedral respecting their jurisdictions ; to such
a length had they been carried, that blood had been shed on both
sides, and it was rumoured that Wolsey himself was about to
visit the city in order to decide between them. It was therefore
to the interest of the authorities to prevent their priestly opponents
from sending any ex-parte statement of their cause to the
all-powerful minister. Several messengers had already been
intercepted and detained ; they had subtle enemies to contend
with, and they took their precautions accordingly.

The horseman had not proceeded more than eight miles in his
present direction when he encountered a party which attracted his
attention. Two soldiers of the city guard, mounted on serviceable
steeds, were leading a sleek mule between them, on which a rider
in the dress of a priest lap', bound by cords. His captors had
thrown him, like a sack of corn, over the pillion, and despite his
cries, groans, threats of excommunication, and prayers, were
jogging along with him over the rough, uneven road at a pitiless
rate. The unfortunate man was one of the prior's messengers, a
brother of the convent, who, with more zeal than prudence, had
undertaken to convey his superior's appeal and denunciations
against the citizens to Wolsey. Like the secretary, he had been
seen from the city gates, and his captors sent in pursuit of him.
Despite the fleetness of his mule, they had succeeded.

"We have bagged the holy fox," shouted one of the men,
laughingly, as Walter approached him, doubtless, in the obscurity
of the night, mistaking him for a comrade sent to assist in the
chase, " If the shaveling only prays as heartily as he curses, by
our Lady, but he will win heaven by storm."

Holy fox ! and shaveling ! " ejaculated the captive, in a voice
of terror and indignation ; " who ever heard Christian men speak
in such ungodly terms ? Know you not," he added, " that you
will both b3 damned for this ? For what says the Canon of the
Church ? Accursed are they who touch "

Here a terrible jolting on the road and scantiness of breath
interrupted the priest's quotation.

You ride fast, young sir," said the man who had first spoken,
as Walter's nearer approach showed him the error into which he
had fallen ; " 'tis a late hour, and your journey seems suspicious.
Stand to the city guard, and answer for your errand, name, and
quality."

*' I am beyond the city bounds," replied the young man, " and
you have no right to question me. Stand back," he added, as he
saw the fellow draw his horse into the centre of the road to
dispute his passage ; " I am armed ; your blood be upon your own
head if j^oii assail me. Therefore beware."

Strike ! " roared the monk, who, on hearing the dispute, b^^aai

to entertain hopes of a rescue. " They are accursed, aud thou
mayst lawfully slay them. They have laid hands upon a priest ;
de facto, they are excommunicate ; they have seized me and my
mule upon the king's highway — ergo, they are robbers. I do
deliver their souls to Satan, and their bodies to the sword. Smite
them with good conscience."

A sharp blow which the second soldier — who still continued to
hold the rein of the priest's mule — administered with the butt-end
of his lance, admonished the churchman to be silent.

Holy Mother ! " he muttered to himself, " I shall be made a
martyr of at last. It is not exactly the honour in the Church I
should have preferred," he added ; " but I suppose the saints know
best what is fit for me !"

Walter, seeing that his assailant was about to level his heavy
partisan, the mere weight of which, had it fallen upon his head,
must have stunned him, drew his sword, and, putting spurs to his
gallant, though jaded steed, pressed upon him. The encounter — if
if deserved the name of such — was over in an instant ; for,
avoiding the ponderous weapon of his adversary by wheeling his
horse round, he succeeded in inflicting so severe a wound upon
his right arm, that it fell useless by his side.

By Heaven, Gilbert," shouted the fellow, " but the springal
hath wounded me ; my arm is powerless. Upon him cautiously, ,
for the knave fights well'"

Would he had slain thee outright ! " thought the monk to
himself ; for he had been too severely admonished to give
utterance to his thoughts aloud.

Now it was that the struggle commenced in earnest. The
second soldier, warned by the fate of his comrade, stood not less
carefully than manfully upon his guard ; it was in vain that
Walter wheeled round and round him, describing a circle of which
his opponent remained the centre ; the fellow, turn which way he
would, confronted him — his ponderous partisan raised above his
head, ready to crush him. So lightly armed was our hero, having
nothing but his sword, that, unless he had seen a fair opening, it
would have been madness to have closed with him — a single blow
from that rude weapon being sufficient to slay both man and horse.
Finding that their evolutions were in vain, as if by mutual accord,
they drew up, and remained for several seconds regarding each
other in silence.

You use your partisan well, friend," said Walter ; " pity that
you do not employ it in a better cause than plundering lawful
travellers upon their journey. You* name will prove a credit to
the city-guard, which, sooth to say, boasts not too good a one
already, if men speak truth of it."

"Plunder!" repeated the fellow; "he must have a doublet
thinly lined vrho would stop thee, or yon prating monk, for gain.

By my patron saint ! I question if ye are not both richer in blows
and curses than marvels ! I'd not give a silver mark for the
quitting of both your jackets."

Why do you bar my path, then ? Do you take me for a
robber .? " demanded the young man.

No," resumed the speaker, in a dogged tone, like one determined
not to be thrown off his guard.

For what, then ? "

For a messenger of the wily prior, charged with more lies than
virtues — more frauds, than truth. If we must put our city's rights
under the cowl of mother Church, at least it shall be the cardinal's
we will not yield to a crow of our own nest ; so either give up
your letters, or return with me."

What if I assure thee that I am a stranger to your city broils,
and bear no letters ? " said the secretary, who began to feel
impatient at the delay occasioned by the encounter.

"Thy assurance will exceed the measure of my credulity,"
replied the fellow, with a laugh.

Thou art determined, then, to bar my passage 1 "

Indisputably."

"Why, then," exclaimed Walter, "St. George decide between
us ! Have at thee for as obstinate a knave as ever gained a broken
crown in a fool's cause \ Since we must play at forgets, let the
sides be equal! "

Clapping spurs to his highly trained but almost exhausted steed,
the speaker turned suddenly round, and galloped to the spot where
the monk still lay bound upon his mule. With a single stroke of
his sword he cut the cords, and set the captive at liberty ; calling
out to him at the same time, " If ever mother Church struck a sure
blov.^, strike it now ; up, priest, and be doing."

The worthy brother needed no second invitation. No sooner
did he feel his limbs at liberty than he slid from his mule, and,
after giving himself a hearty shake, secured the long partisan
which the wounded man had dropped in the previous encounter
with Walter. With a prudence peculiar to his profession, before
he advanced to the assistance of our hero, now furiously assailed
by his opponent, whose rage at the liberation of the monk knew
no bounds, he quietly dealt the fellow, who was stanching his
wound, a blow on the head with the butt-end of his weapon — so
scientifically applied, that it effectually prevented him, for
some time at least, from either witnessing or taking any part in
the affray. We beg our readers most particularly to remember
that it was with the butt-end of the partisan the blow was given ;
for brother Hugo, even in his wrath, remembered the Canon of the
Church, which forbids a priest to smite with steel, lest it lead to
the shedding of blood ; added to which, knocking him down
answered his purpose cjuite as well. After this exploit, had the*

liberated captive followed the dictates of prudence only, he would
have remounted his mule, and continued his route ; but anger,
and a sense of something like gratitude, restrained him : he
remembered the hard blows he had received, and, like an honest
man, was anxious to acquit himself, of the debt. With a bold
front he advanced to Walter's assistance, who, sooth to say, was
hard pressed by his assailant, whose superiority of weapon gave
him an advantage over him. In his early days the monk had
evidently been used to arms ; for he not only handled the partisan
skilfully, but took up a position at the foot of a tree round which the
combatants were repeatedly wheeling, which evinced consider-able
tact in strategy. With the long tough ash pole raised above hia
head — for he still remembered the Canon — he stood, as it were,
the arbiter of the fight, ready to throw down his warder, and bid
the contest cease. At last he did throw it down, and so effectually,
that it fell on the young soldier's head-piece with a force which,
had it not been well-tempered, must have shivered it to splinters ;
as it was, the wearer fell fi'om his horse as suddenly as if he had
been shot. The frightened animal, freed from its rider, galloped
off, and was soon out of hearing.

Fairly aimed and fairly struck, holy brother," exclaimed
Walter, who, had he not been so unequally opposed in point of
weapons in the encounter, would have blushed at such assistance,

Pretty well," modestly replied the priest ; " the spirit was
willing, although the flesh was weak. But what are we to do with
our prisoners ? — heathens as they are, we cannot leave them thus."

The speaker, who, after all, possessed more of the milk of
human kindness than its gall, took from the huge pocket of his
gown a well-filled flask, and applied it to the lips of the senseless
man, first bathing his larow with a portion of its contents. The
fellow, who had been stunned more than seriously hurt by the
blow, gradually recovered his senses, although at first they wei-e
naturally disposed to wander after the severe concussion which
they had received.

Holy Mother, how my brain dances ! " he exclaimed. " What
a flash of lightning was that which blinded me ! Where am I ?
I dreamt I had been in Purgatory."

A very natural dream, too, my son," replied the monk ; " take
care how you realise it."

You here ! and at liberty ! " said the man ; " why, where is
Martin, then ? " This was the name of his comrade.

Much in the same state as yourself," meekly answered the
priest ; " the Lord hath smitten ye both ; your companion sorely."

I suspect," said the fellow, " the Lord has had very little to do
with it. It was more like felling an ox than chastising a Christian."

After binding up the wounds of the two fellows, and cutting
the saddle-girth of their remaining steed, so to delay their arrival

in the city that all further pursuit would prove in vain, Walter and
the monk pursued their way.

Upon more familiar acquaintance, it seemed that they were both
bound to the same destination, London, and each to implore the
protection of Wolsey ; the churchman for the rights of his convent
in their disputes with the citizens, the secretary for himself and
the Lady Mary.

Making good speed, they arrived in the metropolis, and learnt
that the minister was at his newly-erected manor-house of Hampton,
the magnificence of which, it was whispered, excited the jealousy
of his master, and induced the favourite, at last, to surrender it
to him, receiving Richmond in exchange. Here the two travellers
parted — the priest to lodge with those of his order in the city, the
young man to the house of Sir John de Corbey on the banks of
the Thames ; the only inhabitant of which was an old chaplain,
who had protected him in his infancy, and finally introduced him
to the family of his patron : the mansion for several years had
been abandoned by its owner — too many fearful associations were
connected with it to permit him to dwell in peace there.

Independent of the affection which he bore to his venerable
friend, it was necessary that he should see him, in order to obtain
the letter which his father had written to the cardinal, and which,
for many years, had been left in the old man's care. Otherwise,
perhaps, he had not ventured near the fatal spot, even though
deserted by its designing master. So unused was Father Celestina
to receive visitors, that Walter had to ring at the closely-barred
gates several times before the worthy man could be roused from
his studies.

He was a man learned beyond the spirit of his times ;
a ripe good scholar, but beneficed churchman. Although
removed from all active intercourse with the world, even he had
heard of the effect produced by Luther's preaching, and obtained
from a brother in Germany, who was one of that fiery apostle's
earliest disciples, copies of his writings, in perusing which he Alas
so intently absorbed, that it was not till the fifth or sixth peal of
the great bell that the idea struck him of some one desiring admittance
at the gate.

Wondering who, at such an hour, for it was already nightfall,
had arrived to break in upon his solitude, the recluse closed the
volume, and, taking the lamp from the table, proceeded to the
great entrance whence the ringing came. At the sound of his
favourite's voice he quickly let fall the massive bars, and bade him
a thousand welcomes. There was one green spot in the old man's
heart — one oasis in his life's desert, and Walter was the being who
inhabited it. He had watched over him in his infancy, and he
loved him in his manhood ; the very anxieties he had occasioned
him increased his affection. His feelings had found but one

trunk round Avliich to twine themselves, and gratefully expended
all their foliage on it.

What unexpected fortune," he demanded, " brings j'ou at such
an hour ? "

Are you alone ? " replied the young man.

Alone with solitude," answered the priest, eying him uneasily
at the question.

Then bar the gates."

Bar the gates ! "

I am a fugitive — pursued, I doubt not ; and my life in
danger."

Without a second word, Father Celestine did as he was
requested. The thought that his protege was in danger armed him
with unusual presence of mind. As soon as the fastenings were
secure, he quietly resumed the lamp, and led the way to his own
cell, from which he had so lately been disturbed.

In times like the present, Walter," he began, " when virtues
are too often punished as crimes — when vice lords it openly, and
truth finds no security but in concealment or the grave, I will not
ask thee what fault, but rather what merit, hath drawn this
danger on thee, and driven thee a fugitive from Cranfield."

Charmed with the old man's simple confidence in his integrity,
the secretary related the story of the Lady Mary's persecution, his
own ill-starred passion, his danger and escape, and the hopes he
built upon the letter of his father to the cardinal. His friend
heard him with patience, occasionally shaking his head at the
history of his love ; for, recluse as he was, he knew sufficient of
the World to appreciate the distance between his orphan favourite
and the wealthy object of his wishes. His first words, therefore,
were to discourage him in a pursuit which he feared was hopeless ;
added to which, although he knew much of books, he had not the
least idea of the tender passion.

This comes of love and women," he exclaimed, " the source of
evil since the commencement of the world ; the last lost Paradise
the first perilled the empire of the world. Perhaps, after all,"
he continued, a ray of kindlier feeling crossing his heart as he saw
the mortified looks of his listener, "there may be something
delightful in having a being to confide in — to share our pleasures —
to relieve our cares — in having children to resemble us. Yes,
yes," he added, after a pause, as if reasoning with himself, " 'tis
just that man should love ; the heart alone must not be barren.
So thou art right, boy, to obey its instincts ; would I could say
wise in the object of thy choice ! "

Ere Walter could reply a loud ringing at the bell startled them
both from their seats.

I am tracked ! " whispered the fugitive ; " the bloodhounds are
Ripon me."

VOL. 11

Perhaps not," replied the priest ; " but should it prove so, there
are nooks enough to shelter thee in this old mansion."

The summons was again impatiently repeated. "Walter quietly
drew his sword, determined to sell his life dearly, if, as he doubted
not, pursuers from Cranfield were upon his steps. Father Celestina
laid his hand upon his arm to restrain him, for he loved not bloodshed,
and violence he saw would be useless, should his suspicions
prove correct.

The fox must be met with cunning, "Walter," he said, " and the
lion with strength ; when thou art assailed it will be time enough
to use thy sword. Here is the key of the great tower — fly to the
upper chamber ; neither Sir John de Corbey nor his minion, Adam,
will venture to pursue thee there ; couch behind the arras ; anon
I'll seek thee. But to prevent surprise, make fast the oaken door
at the foot of the staircase.

How wilt thou gain admittance," demanded the young manif
I make fast the door ? "

Leave that to me — away — draw bolt and bar behind thee. I
know a way to reach thee."

The bell once more sounded violently. "With a silent pressure
of the hand the priest and secretary parted — the former to open the
gates to his unwelcome visitors, the latter to his hiding-place within
the tower.

What seek ye at such an hour ? " demanded the former, as soon
as he reached the grated door.

Messengers from Cranfield," was the answer.

I must have surer token than your words," replied the old manere
I open to you."

Good master chaplain," said Adam ; for it was the leech, who
with his two companions were despatched in pursuit of "Walter, that
demanded admittance, " surely you know my voice : that is
sufficient token."

"With an appearance of alacrity which ill accorded with the secret
terror of his heart, the priest withdrew the heavy bolts, and
admitted the party into the mansion ; and instantly, as a matter of
course, replaced the several fastenings.

You arrive late," he quietly observed. " Had not an idle book
detained me, I should long ere this have retired to rest."

'Tis well you came at last," replied the leech, eyeing him
suspiciously, for he was no stranger to the friendship existing
between the chaplain and the object of his pui-suit ; " but, perhaps,
you have had visitors ? "

This was uttered with an half-inquiring voice, as if the question
was the most indifferent one in the world ; the old man, who knew
his character, perfectly understood him, and answered in a similar
tone :

Visitors indeed I Few of the neighbours like to y^ss the house

VOL. II. E 2

#

c^'

,1^%^

even when the sun is shining brightly. I know not one who
would set a foot in it after nightfall ; it bears an evil name. The
boatmen speak of shrieks and cries of murder heard from the old
tower at midnight ; and many have assured me they have seen
lights flitting in the upper chamber when no human hand could
have carried them ; but that I am a priest, I should bear an ill name
simply as its tenant."

Adam was silent ; like most infidels, he was superstitious, and he
liked not any allusion to the old tower or its chamber.

Come," resumed the speaker ; "you seem well drenched with
the storm ; 'tis fortunate I have a fire to dry you."

With these words he conducted his unwelcome guests to the
little chamber where he had lately listened to the tale of Walter,
and, with an appearance of hospitable zeal, began to make preparations
for their entertainment. While thus occupied, the leech
took up the book the good man had been reading. It was Luther's
reply to Henry's defence of the seven sacraments ; the same work
which procured for the kings of England from Leo X. the title of
defenders of the faith, inconsistently retained to the present day.
In it the royal disputant was most unceremoniously treated ; the
fiery monk had been unsparing of the qualities in which he most
excelled — sarcasm and abuse. The work was strictly prohibited
by the furious tyrant ; the mere reading of it was looked upon as
little short of treason, and cruelly punished. Whilst the unfortunate
chaplain's back was turned, Adam glanced his eye upon the
title-page, and instantly secured it ; it added to his strength, for it
placed the reader's life within his power.

Good ! " he muttered within himself ; " we shall understand
each other soon."

The frugal meal was quickly despatched, and the two assistants
in his crimes were conducted by Adam to their chamber in a remote
corner of the mansion, in which, with his usual precaution, he
locked them. On his return, he found Father Celestine hunting
over the closets, corners, and nooks of his room with an air of
nervous anxiety. The poor man missed his book, and well knew
the importance of his loss.

You miss something .? " observed the leech, with a cold smile.

Yes — yes," hurriedly replied the old man, continuing his search.

What ? "

Nothing — a trifle — a book that — have you seen it ? " he added.

I i " replied the Italian, with an air of surprise ; " I am little
likely to waste my time with homilies, or lives of saints, or legends,
for such I doubt not are the nature of your pious studies."

I shall find it, doubtless, in the morning," said the chaplain,
trying to look indifferent on the subject ; but hie was not deceived
he knew that Adam was the master of his secret ; his sneer
convinced ham.

I—

Despite the danger which threatened, Father Celestine determined
to secure the escape of his guest ere he cast a thought upon
his own personal safety. With a composed countenance, therefore,
he bade the leech good-night, and retired to the solitude of his cell
there to reflect on the best means of releasing Walter and disappointing
the malice and cunning of his enemy.

On reaching the upper chamber of the tower, to which his friend
had directed him, a sickening sense of loneliness and desolation fell
upon the young secretary's heart. The half-rotten tapestry, torn by
its own weight, hung in huge fragments from the walls, or floated
lazily like funeral banners on the stagnant air. The night was
wild, as the fortunes of the fugitive ; gusts of heavy wind swept at
intervals, howling like fiends broke loose, around the tower, dashing
the rain against the rattling casement, and then gradually subsiding
with a low and sullen moan to dismal silence. Anon the thundercloud
would burst above his head, shaking the massive pile e'en
to its dark foundations, and lighting, by the red flash which accompanied
it, each nook and corner of the unhallowed chamber where
he sat. As the hours rolled slowly on, despite his courage, Walter
became nervous and excited ; a hundred times he fancied he heard
the slow and stealthy tread of some one on the stairs — indeed, so
positive was he upon one occasion, that he rose from the crumbling
chair on which he had been seated and opened the door ; but, no !
imagination had deceived him, there was no one there. Darkness
itself would have been less terrible than the obscure light his simple
lamp afforded ; its sickly flame rose and fell with the various
currents of air to which it was exposed — dancing like some ignis
fatuus in its socket, and casting life-like, mysterious shadows on
the walls and ceiling.

There is some spell upon me ! " he exclaimed. " This old tower
might give mirth itself the horrors, freezing the smile upon its
rosy lip ; but what have I to fear ? — the door is well secured below.
Against earthly visitants, I possess my sword. As for unearthly
beings, I believe not in them. Why should the dead revisit
earth .? "

Scarcely had the words escaped his lips, when, as if to test their
sincerity, an owl, attracted doubtless by the lamp, dashed with its
harsh, shrill cry against the casement. Walter started from his
seat, and, despite his vaunted incredulity, felt that his heart beat
quicker. Nor was it till the creature had repeated its lonely cry
that he recovered his self-possession, or could smile at his boyish
terror.

Poor philosophy ! " he muttered to himself; "how strong in
theory, hove' weak in practice — a giant in repose, a child in action !
We learn rules but to disregard them, demonstrate truths but to
disbelieve them. I'll be no more," he added, " the slave of my
imagination or the fool of fancy ; better darkness than uncertain

light ; besides, my lamp may attract the attention of others than
yon obscene bird to my window."

Scarcely had he extinguished the light than the storm burst with
increased violence around the towers ; and the monotonous patter
of the rain was broken by the whistle of the wind, at times sharp
and piercing, then low and moaning. Walter was approaching the
window to watch the battle of the elements, when his attention
was struck by a streak of light along the wall of the room, as if
some person were standing with a lamp behind a closet door. At
first he thought that fancy had deceived him ; but no, there was
the light, more brilliant than it perhaps would otherwise have been,
from the darkness through which it penetrated.

Not knowing what cause to attribute it to, and naturally dreading
the approach of some secret enemy, the young man cautiously
retreated from the window to a distant part of the room, where a
fragment of arras larger than the rest promised him at least
a temporary concealment. Hiding behind the damp tapestry,
which flapped like a pall against his face, he watched through a
hole which he made with his sword the mysterious light, which
gradually became to his imagination stronger and stronger, till at
last its brilliancy almost dazzled him. Just as expectation was
wrought to its greatest power of endurance, a door curiously concealed
within the wall, which it was made to resemble, opened, and
Father Celestine, bearing a lamp and a basket of provisions, entered
the apartment. In an instant all our hero's terrors, superstitions,
and wayward fancies — the mental phantasmagoria which had so
long tormented him — vanished, and he saw the room, with its torn
arras and distant shadows, as it really was, and not as his imagination
had peopled it.

Welcome, father ! " he exclaimed, stepping from his concealment
; " your presence breaks more than my solitude ; it puts to
flight the idle thoughts which disturbed it. Did I not fear that
you would laugh at me for the confession, I would relate the
terrors which this deserted room and midnight have inspired
me with."

It is, indeed," replied the priest, glancing uneasily round, " a
cheerless place — fit for the deeds which have been perpetrated in
it. Heaven, which witnessed, will doubtless, in its own good time,
avenge them."

Deeds ! what deeds ? " demanded Walter.

Those of the olden time, as well as those of our own day,"
replied the old man. " How often has the stealthy murderer's
footstep mounted the secret stairs by which I came ! Chance,
whilst roaming over the old house, discovered to me their existence
unknown, I feel assured, to all beside. Here, in this very room,
whilst the unconscious victim slept, death by the cord or steel has
done its work ; these walls have echoed to the last cry of nature.

I never enter here," he added, "but I repeat a De Prof undid tor the
dead."

Yon speak of the past," said the secretary, replacing on the
table the flask of wine which the chaplain had brought him.
Know you anything of the crimes committed here by those of
our own day ? " ^

Nothing," replied the priest ; " whatever I may suspect, I know
absolutely nothing. There is one below, perhaps, who could
relate a tale of terror suited to the night and the occasion."

Adam ? " inquired the secretary. His visitor nodded assent.

He it was, then, who arrived to dog me. The bloodhound little
dreams his victim hides 'neath the same roof with him. Strange
he should devote the energies of such a mind to serve the purpose
of so foul a master. He must love him well to damn his soul for
his advancement."

Love," replied the chaplain, " is not the bond between them."

What, then ? interest ? "

No— hate."

Hate ! " repeated the youth ; " father, you surely jest. No
spaniel ever followed in its master's steps more faithfully than
Adam in Sir John's. His intellect, his energies, are but the
servants of his will ; his conscience knows no voice beyond his
pleasure, his heart feels no remorse. Such, old friend, are not the
services of hate."

Nor yet of love," added the priest. " I tell thee, boy, he hates
his subtle master. I have seen his proud lip curl at his command,
his dark eye glance, when unobserved, upon him, as Satan's might
on the Archangel's brow. Doubt not but he will one day turn and
rend him. Then, perhaps, and not till then, will the dark secrets
of this chamber be revealed."

Tell me, father," said walter, fixing his eyes upon him, " what
is it you know ?"

Nothing."

What ! suspect, then ? "

Much. It occurred years before yoii entered in the service of
the knight of Corbey, that a young man, having the appearance of
a citizen, accompanied Sir John to the house ; he seemed under no
restraint, for he followed his conductor freely to this very chamber.
He was never seen to quit it," he added, slowly.

That was strange," said the secretary, deeply interested in the
narrative ; "pray proceed."

"Stranger still," resumed the narrator, " Harold and Carl, two
of the household supposed to be deepest in their master's confidence,
the next morning were found dead within their beds.
From that period — almost from that day — the house had been
abandoned. Strange noises have been heard, and lights, 'tis said,
seen from this chamber window."

Superstition ! " exclaimed Walter — " mere superstition ! Think
you that Heaven suspends the laM's of nature e'en to unveil a
murder ? Improbable ! — impossible ! "

The words had scarcely passed his lips than the large piece of
tapestry behind which the speaker had lately concealed himself
suddenly fell from the carved cornice to which it had been suspended
: the rustling noise which it made in its descent startled
both the inmates of the room. The priest regarded the young
philosopher with a smile, which seemed to ask the value of his
philosophy, when so simple an accident could cause his heart to
beat and his cheek to lose its hue of manly resolution.

'Tis strange," said the secretary, after a pause, " Why should
it fall ? "

It must have fallen at some time or another," answered the
chaplain ; " why not now 1 "

You must confess it is at least a curious commentary on my
words."

Experience," replied the elder, " is full of such incidents.
Imagination might draw from it a thousand inferences which sober
reason would reject. Had the rotten arras revealed in its descent
a cabinet, a treasure, a secret door, or any proof of crime, we might
suppose that there was something more than accident in it."

By Heaven ! but there is ! " exclaimed Walter, who had been
anxiously scanning the wall. ' " See, father, here is a recess rudely
built up ; observe how unevenly the stones are placed, as though
terror urged the hands of guilt to its completion. My soul upon
the issue, but it contains some mystery."

"I think so too," replied the priest, carefully examining the wall.
"What are we about to learn ? "

Shall we proceed ? " demanded the young man ; " I can easily
wrench one of the loose bars of iron from the window and break
open the recess."

Proceed," said the priest ; " man is but the instrument in the
hand of Heaven to work its ends. Who, in tracing the action of
Providence, shall venture to declare how much is accident, how
much design ? "

Walter, encouraged by the words of the chaplain, easily wrenched
an iron bar from the window, Avhere the corroding tooth of lime
had already loosened it in its socket, and commenced his attack
upon the stonework which filled up the recess. The first stroke of
the instrument fell with a hollow sound, like a blow struck upon
a tomb. An unwonted energy nerved his arm ; he felt as if supernaturally
called upon to bring some long-hidden crime to light —
to proclaim and to avenge it.

Slowly, and with difficulty, as if reluctant to yield up the sect-et
they so long had guarded, the rough, unhewn stones gave way
beneath the repeated blows of the secretary, and fell, one by one,

with a dull heavy sound upon the floor, disclosing a ghastly-skeleton
bound by chains to iron staples in the walls. There was
little doubt but the wretched victim had been confined there
living, the arms and shoulders being dislocated by the frantic
struggles it had made ; fragments of cloth and linen still adhered
to the mouldering bones, and innumerable beetles were seen
hurrying in every direction along the walls, alarmed at th flood of
light so suddenly let in on their disgusting banquet,

Father," exclaimed the young man, turning with an expression
of pity and terror from the revolting sight, " God hath not permitted
this mystery to be revealed that we should seal our tongues.
Heaven, which heard the victim's cries, counted his groans,
measured his tears, wills that we should avenge them."

A flash of lightning more intense than any which had preceded
it, followed by a tremendous thunderclap, which shook the old
towers, lit up the apartment, throwing, with its intense sulphurous
light, the feeble flame of the dying lamp into the shade. Whether
attracted or not by the iron belt which encircled the waist of the
skeleton, it is impossible to say ; but certain the electric fluid
seemed to linger longer there than on any other object upon which
it rested. Finally, it disappeared, leaving the recess in greater
darkness than before.

On looking closer into the unhallowed tomb, Walter perceived a
steel sword-chain and scabbard, still hanging round the marrowless
bones. The lightning had attracted his attention to them first.
With a trembling hand he removed them, and bringing them to
the light — despite the rust and mildew which covered them —
distinctly traced upon the clasp of the belt the name of Cuthbert.

Cuthbert ! " repeated the old man, crossing himself in terror.
How wondrous are the ways of Providence ! Such was the name
of the young stranger who so mysteriously disappeared in this
very chamber."

The nephew of Steadman ? " demanded the young man ; " the
son of the manaic Maud ? "

The same."

The hour of retribution, then, hath arrived at last. The dead
seems to have chosen me as his avenger. I accept the task. I here
devote my soul to its fulfilment, and Heaven smile upon me as I
keep the oath ! Morning soon will dawn. Tell me, father," he
added, " have you brought me my dead father's letter, the only
legacy his broken fortunes had to leave me ? "

Take it, my son," replied Father Celestine, placing it in his
hand ; " and may the writer's spirit watch over and protect thee !
'Tis time for thj"- departure."

But should Adam enter here," exclaimed the young man,
glancing uneasily round, " he would at once remove the proofs of
his and his master's crime, or contrive some tale to explain them."

Slight fear of that," replied the priest ; " the door is barred
below, and, save myself, no living being knows the secret access to
the tower. Follow me, Walter," he added, " I will conduct thee
first to liberty. Lose not a moment ; with the earliest dawn make
thy best Away to Hampton. Wolsey hath a proud heart, but not an
ungenerous nature. If I rightly judge him, he will protect the
Lady Mary, and avenge her wrongs for her own sake — something
perchance for thine."

And thou ? " demanded Walter.

Will wait thy coming here," continued the old man ; " my duty
accomplished to the living, I have one not less sacred to perform
towards the dead."

Taking the scabbard and sword-belt with him, the secretary
followed the speaker down the secret stairs, and, after a long
descent through vaults and passages cut in the thickness of the
massive walls, found himself with his conductor in one of the
offices of the mansion, detached from the principal building.

The light of morning breaks," whispered the old man ; " away I
God and a good conscience speed thee on thine errand ! "

He remained for several minutes listening to the retreating
footsteps of his favourite, and then returned to the chamber where
so fearful a discovery had been made. The first rays of the sun,
as they gleamed through the time-stained windows, found him at his
duty.

The priest was praying for the dead.

CHAPTER IV.

*' My buildings sumptuous, the roofs with gold and base,
Shone like the sun in mid-day sphere ;
Craftily entailed as cunning could devise,

With images embossed most lively did appear."

(From an old poem on Hampton Court, written
by Cavendish, Wolsey' s secretary.)

In the beginning of the sixteenth century the Knights
Hospitallers of St. John of Jerusalem were a rich and powerful
community ; the gate of their magnificent preceptory of Clerken-
well attests even to the present day the stateliness of their
habitations, and the style in which they lived. Amongst the
numerous possessions of this order of military monks was a district
of some thousand acres, through which the Thames flowed
from Ditto to Walton on the Surrey side, and from Haddington
to Tamworth on the Middlesex bank. This manor, known by the
name of Hampton, was a low sandy level, producing but little
corn, and inhabited chiefly by a few priests and lay brothers, till
Wolsey purchased it of the prior in 1515 ; when, employing the

vast resources at his command, he quickly changed the character
of the place. The ancient hostel and chapel were swept away, and
a splendid palace arose, as if by enchantment, at the bidding of
the wealthy cardinal ; and here, within two years of his purchase
of the place, did he surround himself with the pomp of kings, and
maintained a state superior to his master's.

In the presence-chamber, waiting his coming from his private
apartments, were assembled the chief noblemen and gentlemen of
his eminence's household ; the two cross-bearers, with their silver
crosses ; the Earl of Derby, to bear the hat to the chapel, and lay
it on the altar ; Cavendish, his secretary ; and a crowd of suitors,
both laymen and ecclesiastics ; the fortunes of most of whom
depended on the smile or frown of the favourite.

Amongst the various groups assembled in the hall — and they
were both remarkable and splendid — were three personages who
claimed particular attention. The first was Sir John Hervey, vice-chamberlain
to his grace — a stiff, tall, formal courtier, whose face
was a faithful mirror of his master's — smiling where he smiled,
frowning where he frowned. The pages nick-named him the
Weathercock," as they could generally tell what kind of humour
the cardinal was in by gazing on the countenance of the worthy
knight — that is, after he had had his first audience of his uncertain
master ; previous to that it was as impassible as a statue's —
meaningless as the pliant wax waiting for the impress of the seal.
In his right hand he held his wand of office, with which he
marshalled visitors according to their due degrees. The second
was Fisher, Bishop of Rochester ; the prelate whom Henry VIII.
afterwards beheaded for his opposition to the Reformation, and to
show his hatred of the Holy See, which had just conferred upon
its unfortunate defender the dignity of cardinal. The third was
Wolsey's fool. Patch — the inimitable, faithful, shrewd, sarcastic
Patch — the only person who, perhaps, ever ventured to speak his
mind freely to the all-powerful minister. The latter, upon his fall,
presented him as a valuable present to the king. Such, however,
was the poor creature's fidelity to his master, that he was obliged
to be dragged from his presence, and conveyed by force to
Greenwich, from whence he twice endeavoured to escape.

Does his grace ride to day ? " demanded the prelate, addressing
the functionary with the white wand.

The officer looked embarrassed. He had not yet seen his
capricious lord, and he never committed himself ,by giving an
opinion ; he contented himself, therefore, by merely elevating his
eyebrows, and looking more stolid than usual.

Patch, who heard the question, answered it in his own
whimsical way. Plucking one of the feathers from the crest at
the end of his bauble, he threw it into the air, and blew it with
his breath, exclaiming as he did so, till it reached the ground,

Ride — not ride — ride — not ride — ride — not ride. You are answered,
my lord, with as much certainty as the knight's perspicuity
and my wisdom can divine." The churchman smiled. He understood
both the satire and wit of the speaker.

Perhaps," he added, " he goes to Greenwich ; I saw the barge
getting ready on the river as I arrived." -♦

Perhaps," replied Sir Henry, solemnly, fearing even by that
equivocal expression of committing himself.

At this moment the Earl of Derby approached, and invited the
bishop to inspect the new tapestry — a present from Francis the
First to hie friend and counsellor, as he invariably styled Wolsey
in his letters — for the first time displayed at the lower end of the
hall. No sooner had they withdrawn than the jester drew the arm
of the vice-chamberlain through his, and took him, as if for the
purpose of some important communication, a little on one side.

How prudent should they be," he Whispered, with a gravity to
which the laughing expression of his eyes gave the lie, ^' who are
entrusted with a great man's confidence ! You have seriously
compromised his reverend grace."

How so .? " demanded the astonished courtier.

How so ! " repeated Patch, with a look of comical contempt.
Sir knight, thou art more obtuse than an angle : a chamberlain
should see further into a mile-stone than most men. I had some
thoughts of retiring from my office, but I see I must look further
for a successor. ' How so ! ' Hast thou not given authority to all
-present to suppose, nay, positively asse b, that his eminence mayor
may not go to Greenwich ? The fact is patented ; thou wilt be
cited as its author — men will quote thee for thy master's whereabouts
— spies will be set to dog thee — statesmen to pump thee ;
knowing," he added, with an indescribable leer, " how deep thou
art in Wolsey's confidence."

The loud laugh of the noblemen and gentlemen ushers in
waiting at the jester's hit proved that his wit had told. The eye
of the angry officer glanced round the hall, but encountered only
the glance of those whom he was far too prudent to quarrel with.
At last it fell upon a young man whose travel-stained dress and
haggard features indicated both bodily fatigue and mental suffering.
It was our old friend Walter, who, by dint of perseverance,
had made his way to the great hall of Hampton, in the hope of
presenting his letter to the cardinal.

Now," exclaimed the knight, in a haughty tone, for he could
be haughty with his inferiors, " what brings you into the presence-chamber
? — methinks the Almonry might better serve your
errand."

Your pardon," replied the fugitive, colouring with ill-suppressed
indignation at being thus addressed, " I am here to
deliver a letter to his grace."

A letter to his grace ! " repeated Patch. " Oh, the simplicity,
the beautiful simplicity of youth ! "Were it known that his
eminence had received a letter from a mysterious messenger in a
soiled doublet, though of goodly presence, the couriers of half the
Cabinets in Europe would be set in motion ; France and Spain
would send special ambassadors to demand explanations of the
vice-chamberlain or of me, and probably the peace of Europe
would only be preserved but on condition of our joint dismissal."

A second hearty laugh still further predisposed the pompous
functionary against our hero. Before, however, he took upon
himself the decided step of dismissing him from the hall, he
prudently inquired the name of the writer of the letter, lest
unwittingly he should compromise himself by such an act.

It was written," replied Walter, a tear involuntarily dimming
his eye, " by my late father — his grace's earliest friend."

The words had no sooner passed his lips, when the jester
immediately put out both his hands, as though he had something
in the hollow of each, and was balancing them to ascertain which
was the heaviest. One of the secretaries. Master Cavendish,
observed the action, and asked what he was doing.

Trying which weighs the most," quietly answered Patch, " a
dead man's influence, or a great man's memory."

And you find " said the questioner.

That I have no just weight by which to try them," continued
the fool. " It must be heavier than a thought," he added, " and
lighter than a thistledown. When you find me such, I will solve
the question, sir."

There was a tone of feeling and sadness in the speaker's voice
which jarred strangely T\-ith his motley office.

You must deliver your letter at the Almonry, young man, and
attend in three days for a reply. None but those who have been
presented to his grace have the entree to the presence-chamber.
Retire ! No words ! " added the chamberlain ; " oblige me not to
give orders to remove you from the hall."

There was no disputing a command so peremptorily given, and
the disheartened fugitive reluctantly quitted the brilliant assembly,
where in sooth his soiled garments were somewhat out of place.
The jester followed him.

The above incident had scarcely passed, when a gentleman
usher cried out :

Place, my lords and gentlemen — place for my Lord Cardinal of
York ! "

In an instant the various conversations and whisperings which
had taken place were broken off, and the assembled officers and
courtiers assumed that air of respectful attention which cringing
humility so well knows how to pay to greatness. The large doors
were thrown open by the yeomen of the hall, and the almost royal

churchman entered from his private apartments. Wolsey was at
this period in the prime of intellect and manhood, his features
marked by that slight animal expression which indicates energy
of character, gives action to mind, and denotes determination in all
who possess it. In person he was above the usual height,
extremely dignified in his carriage, an advantage to which his rich
flowing robes of engrained crimson satin more than slightly
contributed. He spoke with the confidence of one long
accustomed to be listened to with attention and respect. It is
recorded of him that he was kind and indulgent in his household,
and took a pleasure in showing his haughtiness only to such as
were of great estate, or had offended him ; in the latter case he
was implacable. With all his defects, and they were great and
many, let it not be forgotten that he was the munificent patron both
of letters and of art. Hampton Court attests the latter, whilst
Oxford bears witness to the first.

Good day, my lords and gentlemen ! " he exclaimed, slightly
bending in acknowledgment of the profound salutation of the
circle — " Good day. Hervey," he demanded, without deigning a
second glance on men of the highest rank, who were suitors, or
dancing attendance on him, " what letters have arrived ? "

According to the usual etiquette. Cavendish advanced to the bag
and gave them, one by one, to the vice-chamberlain, who handed
them to his eminence. The first was from the king, and dated
Greenwich. The minister kissed it with an affectation of respect
as he broke the seal ; it announced the expected arrival of
Campeggio, whom the reigning pontiff, Clement VII., had joined
with himself in the legatine commission for deciding the divorce
between Henry and his queen. A slight shade passed over the
lofty brow of the statesman as he perused the epistle ; perhaps he
already foresaw the difficulties to which the question ultimately
gave rise, not only between his sovereign and himself, but England
and the see of Rome.

So this is his answer to a memorial of the state of Europe and
the emperor's intrigues," he murmured, as he placed the letter in
the belt of his soudan. " I must decide without him. A childish
toy, an hour's caprice, and a kingdom's interests are cast aside.
Earth ! earth ! such are thy rulers ! "

The succeeding letters, after being slightly glanced over, were
handed to an officer, whose duty it was to receive them and
deliver them to the secretaries to be answered. The contents of
the bag which Cavendish held were nearly exhausted, when Patch,
who had followed Walter from the hall, returned. Holding the
letter in his hand which the youth had vainly attempted to
deliver, the jester had good-naturedly undertaken to do so for
him. Quietly coming between Sir Henry and the secretary, just
as the former held out his hand mechanically for another letter

to give to Wolsey he placed Walter's in his palm, and the
unsuspicious courtier instantly handed it to his master, who had
watched the jester's manoeuvre, and smiled at its success ; for the
Shrewd-witted fool was a favourite with him.

A strange change came over the countenance of the cardinal
when the signature of the letter met his gaze ; he was like a man
who found a reproach where he expected a smile — a thorn where
he looked for a flower. The writer had been the companion of
Ms youth — the first, perhaps the only, friend he ever loved or
trusted, and yet he had neglected him ; with a kingdom's wealth
and patronage at his disposal, had never once inquired if he were
living or dead, poor or in prosperity. Such is the value of a great
man's memory.

Who brought this letter ? " he demanded, after a pause, during
which he had been revolving in his mind how to atone for his
past neglect, and remove from his heart the reproach of ingratitude.


The question was addressed to the astonished chamberlain, but
the speaking glance to Patch intimated that it was from him the
answer was expected.

'* A youth sore spent with travel," replied the jester, more
seriously than he was wont to speak ; " but his soiled doublet
offended the chamberlain's knighthood. His want of quarterings
refined his humility ; so he dismissed him to the Almonry, your
grace — to flirt with Patience, whilst waiting on her lean sister.
Charity."

Almonry ! charity ! " repeated Wolsey, in a tone which boded
a tempest to the unfortunate object of his wrath. " It is the ciirse
of greatness to be aped by the fools that cringe and circle round it.
Seek out the youth," he added to the terrified officer of his
household, who stood, or rather tottered, before him. " Lead him
to our presence, and beware how you obtrude yourself again till
he be found."

Sir Henry Hervey, curving his back to the very ground,
sneaked out of the presence-chamber.

I owe this young man's father a deep debt of gratitude,"
continued Wolsey, half-aloud and half-talking to himself, " which
though unclaimed till now, shall now be paid."

It must be to the south himself, then, master," replied the
jester, "for his father is long since dead."

Dead ! " repeated the churchman, dropping the letter. '* OK
power ! how empty is thy greatness ! My word can clothe the
naked wretch with ermine ; deal war or peace, as to my will
seems meet ; say to my fo?. Thou shalt not live an hour ; yer
cannot bid my friend exist one minute ! The crosier, like the
sceptre, smells of earth. I am sick of greatness. The boy I loved,
the first friend of my youth, the saviour of my life." he added.

bitterly, " gone to his grave — weighed down, perhaps, by my
ingratitude ! — cold, heartless, selfish Wolsey • "

The self-accusing tone in which the words were uttered made a
deep impression on all who heard them, for his eminence was nota
man to " wear his heart ujDon his sleeve " ; if he felt deeply, he
rarely expressed his feelings ; and many augured favourably of
the young man's fortunes from the terms in which Wolsey
reproached himself for his neglect of his father.

In a few moments the abashed chamberlain reappeared, ushering
in our hero with as much respect as he would have paid to a
crowned head, so suddenly had he risen in importance since his
master had reproved him in his favour,

Approach, young man," said the cardinal, fixing his keen grey
eye upon his countenance, as if to read his very soul, " and let me
gaze upon thee. Thou hast thy father's features," he added after a
pause, during which he had scanned him well ; " nature stamped
their impress on thy face as witness of his blood. We will not
forget our former friendship for him : to give thee standing in the
world and mark our favour, we name thee of our chamber."

Gentleman of the chamber ! " whispered Cavendish to one of
the ushers ; " v/ho is this stripling ? "

One whom 'twere well to court," replied the latter personage.
Engage solicited the post for his son these two months past."

Instead of kissing the hand which the churchman extended to
him as usual on receiving such an appointment, Walter knelt and
offered a paper to his eminence, containing the history of Lady
Mary's wrongs, and Sir John's oppression.

How ! " exclaimed Wolsey, his brow suddenly flushed with
anger and surprise. " What wouldst thou more ? — the office is
indifferent good, and for a young beginner "

More — much more than I deserve," replied the young man,
still offering him the writing ; " I did not come, as many do, to
push vile interest, or to sue for favour, I came to add another
laurel to your wreath of fame ; to guide your guardian regis o'er
the head of innocence devoted to destruction. 0, my dread lord,
in after times, when Wolsey's name shall stand recorded* on his
country's page, one act like this shall shed a greater lustre than all
his bounties on the mean and worthless."

His favour's gone ! " whispered the usher ; " fool to play with
fortune while within his reach ! "

Not so," said Cavendish ; " whatever the suit, 'tis granted — his
grace hath ta'en the paper."

The latter was right in his surmise ; for, after eying him a few
moments searchingly, the minister took the document from the
suppliant's trembling fend, and read it attentively.

What pledge," he demanded, " have I for the truth of this ? "

My life — my faith ! " exclaimed Walter, radiant witli^hope.

The cardinal advanced a step towards the speaker, and gazed
upon his open, candid brow ; and then, as if satisfied with the
scrutiny, muttered to himself :

His eye shrinks not from my gaze : there is a blush upon his
cheek, yet it appears like youth's and warm ingenuous nature's.
Enough, young man," 'he added, addressing himself more directly
to the still-kneeling youth ; " I'll trust thee,"

My thanks — my gratitude ! " faltered the lover.

*' Hold ! " resumed his eminence ; " thou hast some dearer
interest in this matter. Speak freely, if I am not to doubt thee."

I love Mary of Cranfield," whispered Walter ; " her guardian
would have imprisoned me for an attempt upon an heiress."

Thy suit shall fare the better that it is avowed," replied the
churchman in the same under-tone. " Follow me to my closet ;
for here are ears I trust not, — lip service, but no hearts. Order
my barge," he added in a loud voice ; " within an hour we start
for Greenwich. And for the future know this gentleman as one
of our household and especial favour."

All bowed, and many a look of envy was cast upon the fortunate
object of their master's commendation. Without casting a second
look upon the nobles who were waiting to press their various suits
with him, the cardinal left the amazed circle of courtiers, and was
followed by our hero to his closet, where, with the simplicity of
truth, he related, not only the story of his love, but the oppressive
cruelty of Sir John de Corbey ; and finished with the discovery of
the skeleton of the unfortunate armourer, producing, at the same
time, the belt and scabbard of the murdered man in proof of his
assertion.

Good ! " exclaimed the cardinal, with a smile of quiet satisfaction,
for he remembered the intrigue by which her guardian had
removed the Lady Mary from his protection. " The knight has
played a desperate game ; but we shall balk him yet."

That same evening, after a long conference with Henry at
Greenwich, the favourite gave orders to his household to depart for
Norwich, ostensibly to settle the dispute between the prior and
the citizens, to which we have previously alluded, but which,
fortunately for our lovers, was not the only motive for his journey.
Walter travelled in his suite.

Despite the decided step which he had taken in removing the
heiress from her own domain of Cranfield to his manor-house
within the city. Sir John de Corbey was ill at ease. The escape of
his secretary alarmed him ; and the prolonged absence of his
counsellor and minister Adam was another source of vexation to
his unquiet spirit.

He was pacing the great hall of the mansion about a week after
the interview we have just endeavoured to describe when the
leech, with his usual stealthy tread, entered the apartment. There

VOL. II. F 2

was no hurry, no anxiety upon his features. He saluted his
employer as slightly as though he had been absent from him buta
few minutes, instead of twelve or fourteen days. After carefully
closing the doors, the knight advanced towards him, and, in a
voice broken by excitement and passion, eagerly demanded if he
had succeeded in finding the fugitive.

Adam simply nodded his head in answer to his questions.

And where ? "

Where least you v.^ould expect or wish," replied the Italian,
for the first time breaking silence ; " safe under Wolsey's shelter
and protection."

Confusion ! " exclaimed the guilty man ; " the butcher's son
hath crossed my path once more ! Out of thy store of subtle wit
invent some scheme to counteract this mischief, or I am lost."

A close observer might have seen a smile of mingled satisfaction
and contempt flit, like a passing shadow, over the countenance of
the leech as he noted the agony and rage of the speaker. The
expression was but momentary ; his features instantly resumed
their usual cold and statue-like character, as he demanded, in a
tone of affected humility, how his poor skill could serve when his
own had failed.

This time the mask was too transparent — the sneer was seen
through the humility.

Italian," said his master, bending his brow, for he keenly felt
the contempt of the being whom he dared not quarrel with, " from
thy derision I can gather hope. Lost to the ties of country,
kindred, friends, the pride of knowledge lives within thee yet.
Thou hast a secret joy to play man's passions against himself, and
from opposing natures work out thy hidden purpose. Tell me
what is thy project — bribery ? "

Bribery will do much," slowly answered the old man, as if
weighing some important project in his brain.

I have heard thee say that all men have their price," interrupted
the knight, with a gesture of impatience.

True," resumed the leech ; " the difficulty is to get, not name
it. Monarchs, by flattery and beauty's smiles, sometimes by gold,
are moulded out at will. Gross sensual appetite is some men's god.
Priests, mostly feed them, and they are yours. I have bribed
chiefs and rulers in my time," he added ; " played as I list with
ministers and princes ; but Wolsey is no common man. Yet he,
too, hath his price."

Where shall I seek it ? " eagerly demanded Sir John, deceived
by the leech's manner, and deeming that he had found the key to
every difficulty — so much was he accustomed to rely upon his
contrivances.

Adam raised his eyes and gazed for a few moments upon the
speaker with an expression of mingled pride and shrewdness, as if

he felt a triumph in solving a problem which had puzzled his
unscrupulous employer.

"On that seven-crowned hill," he answered slowly, "where,
decked in harlot pride, the mockery of imperial Rome is found —
the shadow only of departed greatness. Pluck the tiara from the
pontiff's brow, bear it to Wolsey's footstool. Were thy soul
blackened with his father's blood, his blessing would be on thee,
his hand be knit to thine."

"You mock me ! " exclaimed the knight, in a tone of irritation ;
is there no other way ? "

I know of none," carelessly answered the Italian, as if to him
it was the least important matter in the world.

Why, then I know the worst," said his master, " Never shall
Wolsey's mandate tear her from me, beggar my son, the heir of
my proud name, to enrich a base-born peasant. She must be mine,"
he added, " or "

Hush ! " whispered his companion, laying his hand upon his
arm, and glancing cautiously round the room, " speak not so loudly.
Her death might serve you better than her love. Wives are expensive
; and 'tis her wealth alone that you require."

The wretched man, but half-resolved on crime, started, as the
tempter placed the deed before him, and the vile motives which
incited him to perpetrate it.

"No — no," he faltered, "tis not her wealth alone — the honour
of our house "

Something between a chuckle and a hiss issued from the thin
lips of the leech at the attempt of the speaker to palliate to himself
the incentive to the deed. Throwing the arm which he still held
contemptuously from him, he answered, " Psha ! we understand
each other."

The accomplices in crime remained gazing upon each other for
some time in silence ; there was something unearthly in their
stare. The expression of the Italian's countenance was like that
of the demon waiting to be solicited. Sir John's resembled the
doubting votary's, fearful to name the impious deadly gift. The
man of science was resolved not to speak ; the man of crime for
some time hesitated, but was forced at last to give way in the
contest of resolution, where they were so unequally matched.

It must be by poison," he faltered ; " other means were
dangerous."

Still the leech was silent.

"A poison," he resumed, "which leaves no trace for justice's
curious eye to dwell upon. Thou must supply me with it."

The leech bowed his head in token of assent, as though it were
the simplest thing in the world he had been requested to do.
Indeed, it vas observable in all their plotting and villainies that
few words passed between them. Could Father Celestine be right

in his conjecture ? Was the mutual tie which bound them indeed
a bond of hate ?

"This evening, in my laboratory," said Adam, "the draught
shall be prepared. Fear not detection. Summon what men of
skill the city boasts of to probe the cause of death ; they shall
confess it apoplexy."

Farewell ! " replied Sir John ; " I will once more try to move
her ; 1 must to my ward."

And I," added Adam, drawing the heavy key of the laboratory
from his vest, " must to my task."

With these words the worthless plotters against the life of the
youthful heiress of Cranfield parted on their different errands.
Scarcely had they left the chamber than the door of a carved oaken
press, which stood in a recess near the window, was slowly opened,
and Henry de Corbey, who had been a concealed witness of the
interview between the Italian and his father, staggered from his
hiding-place. His cheek was pale with horror, and the heavy cold
perspiration which stood upon his brow showed like drops of dew
trickling down a marble statue. His very blood felt stagnant in
his veins, yet he distinctly felt the strong and slow pulsation of
his heart. Nay, he could almost hear it. He felt as if he had
been suddenly transformed from youth to age, so utter was the
desolation that had fallen uj^on him ; for it was not a passing
tempest which had dimmed the sunshine of his soul, but an eclipse
which had obscured it.

What have I heard ? " he murmured to himself. " Words, that
hiss like serpents, whispering in my ear ! My father an assassin !
Mary his victim ! God ! it cannot be ! This is some horrid dream !
Thou art too just, too merciful," he added, bursting into tears, and
burying his face in his hands, " to try a boy, a child, with terrors
such as these. Wake me from it," he sobbed, " ere reason quits its
throne, and I go mad, doubting of heaven and Thee ! "

For some time the wretched youth gave way to the natural
weakness of his age, and relieved his burdened heart.

Courage in the young is generally accompanied by sensibility,
because it is an impulse : it is only where it is the result of calculation
that we remark the absence of its best companion. The
boyish lover, who had devoted himself to the protection of his
outraged cousin, was not the less firm in his resolution because he
shed a few natural tears over his voluntary task. Had the intended
assassin been any other than his father, he would immediately have
denounced him ; but not only his parent's life, the honour of his
name was at stake ; and pride, duty, as well as the dread of shame,
fettered his tongue in silence. For awhile he paced the oaken floor
of the apartment in deep and painful meditation, revolving in his
mind how best to spare his parent's fame and secure the Lady
Mary's safety, A melancholy smile, like a dying sunbeam, flitted

over his pale countenance as the means of succeeding in both points
presented itself to his imagination. 'Tis true the sacrifice was a
costly one, but he felt assured that it would be effectual.

Father," he cried, after he had well meditated and resolved his
purpose, " the son for whom thou wouldst have sinned shall yet
preserve thy honour."

That same day, whilst his cousin was taking her guarded walk
upon the terrace, Henry de Corbey concealed himself within her
chamber.

About ten o'clock in the evening of the same day the streets of
Norwich were almost clear. Here and there a solitary figure
might be seen hurrying towards home, his step quickened by the
double anticipation of a scolding tongue and an encounter with a
straggling 'prentice, who, since they had been called upon by the
citizens to keep watch and ward with the guard, in consequence of
the dispute between the city and clergy, were more than usually
insolent. Several such parties had passed by the Palace Plain,
where formerly stood the residence of the Dukes of Norfolk,
chanting their noisy songs, and hustling into the middle of the
street such quiet passengers as business or pleasure called from
their homes at that late hour. Under one of the old-fashioned
porticoes of a mansion at the end of a street stood, or rather leant
upon his staff, a tall mendicant friar, his hood drawn over his face,
in all probability more for warmth than concealment, for the wind
was blowing keenly. As the sound of footsteps approached his
lurking-place, he several times quitted his retreat, but instantly
shrank' back to it on perceiving the riotous character of the parties
who approached and passed him. At last a solitary passenger, a
man of staid demeanour, such as became a substantial citizen who
had a voice and was well respected in his ward, was seen walking
towards the palace. After eying him for some moments, as if to
assure himself of the character or identity of the party, the friar
emerged freely in the street to address him.

Benedicite, my son ! " he exclaimed ; " the night promises to
be a rough one."

The citizen whom he addressed respectfully raised his cap from
his head, and uncovered an open, lofty brow, frosted with age, yet
marked with health and resolution. It was our old friend
Steadman, the now opulent wool-comber, who was retracing his
steps to his quiet domicile. The old man had served, and had
seen the brethren of St. Francis, as the mendicant friars were
called, in the battle-field, whispering consolation to the dying and
hope to the wounded. He had watched their labours in the
hospital and in the camp, in the prison and on the scaffold ;
wherever, in the course of his long life, he had encountered misery,
danger, distress, or sorrow, there had he also met the humble
brothers of the order ; end the bluff veteran raised his bonnet to

the russet gown and cord of the mendicant priest With deeper
reverence than he had paid to a mitred prelate or a belted earl.

Knowest thou, my son," demanded the friar, " where in this
city stands the mansion of Sir John de Corbey ? "

The citizen eyed the speaker narrowly. Between himself and
the knight existed a sense of unmerited injury and slumbering
hate. He had just heard, too, that the Lady Mary was little better
than a prisoner in her home, that Walter was a fugitive, and he
naturally regarded with suspicion all who seemed in any way
allied or connected with the oppressor.

I know both it and its owner," he answered, in a tone which
contrasted strangely with the courtesy of his previous action.
Would I had less reason to boast of his acquaintance, for I hold
it but slight honour."

He seems, my son," replied the friar, calmly, " to hold scant
place in your favour ; yet report speaks of him as a valiant knight,
and of unblemished honour."

Not the first lie report has trumpeted foolishly," exclaimed the
oM man, who deemed it imprudent, however, to enter into further
conversation with one who might be a spy or agent of the subtle
knight ; so hastily turning on his heel, he drills bade his interrogator
good-night, and prepared to resume his walk towards home,
when the voice of the mendicant again arrested him.

You forget you have not yet shown me the house in question."

Follow me," replied Steadman, in a tone which plainly
indicated his dissatisfaction at the task imposed ; and, without
waiting to see if the friar obeyed his injunction, he turned upon
his steps, and marched sturdily along till he reached the church of
the Dominican Friars, now St. Andrew's Hall. Passing over the
bridge, he pointed to a large house, isolated in its own grounds, on
the opposite side of the river, which watered the lawn in front.

That's it, friend," said the old soldier ; " God and our Lady
speed your errand, if it be good : if evil, may they pardon thee.
Farewell ! the hour is late for honest men to be abroad in ; I must
to my home."

The monk drew from his pouch a piece of gold, and proffered it
to the speaker for his acceptance in recompense for the service he
had rendered him. Much to his astonishment, his guide rejected
it, almost with contempt.

I want not your gold ! " he exclaimed. " You must be rich to
pay so largely for so slight a service. Humph ! " he added, eying
him both leisurely and suspiciously, " gold and a friar ! I question
if the cardinal himself, whose revenue, they say, would buy a
county, had been more liberal."

Why do you refuse the gold .? " demanded the mendicant.

"Because I have not earned it," replied the wool-comber, "and
wish to keep my conscience cleaner than my hands, A foolish

whim, you'll sa', as the world goes ; but still it is my whim ; and,
thanks to industry and care, I am rich enough to indulge it,"

All men are not so scrupulous," observed the stranger, replacing
the broad piece within his pouch.

No ; only the honest ones," said Steadman.

Art thou honest ? "

The question seemed to rouse the anger of the old soldier — more,
perhaps, from the half-sneering, half-doubtful tone in which it was
uttered, than from the words themselves. Grasping the stout staff
with which he guided his steps through the city, as though he
longed to break it over the inquirer's back, he answered him :

Too honest to accept of gold from the friend of Sir John de
Corbett

am not his friend," coolly replied the stranger.

"Well, then from his enemy,"

Nor am I his enemy,"

In the devil's name," exclaimed the old soldier, " what art thou,
then ? "

"His judge."

His judge ! " repeated our old soldier, yet more and more
surprised ; " who and what art thou ? "

As thou seest ; an unworthy priest of the Most High," said the
mendicant, bowing with profound humility.

Priests are not judges," observed the citizen ; angry, as he
conceived, at being trifled with by an unworthy jest.

Are there none who judge," demanded the friar, " save those
who interpret the law's stern letter ; or, clothed in ermine and in
purple, speak its life-condemning word ? He who shall rend the
veil from Justice's bandaged brow, point out the den where crime
hath hid its terrors and its proofs, guide the keen blade in its
descent, and mark the hour to strike. He is the Judge — earth's
judges are His agents."

The tone of dignity with which the friar spoke convinced
Steadman that he was in contact with no common mind. In a
moment his mistrust had vanished. The old soldier had seen
sufficient of the world to know that such a man would never bethe
agent of a criminal like Sir John de Corbey ; his confidence
was complete,

How can I serve thee ? " he inquired, in a tone of cordiality,
different from his former one of suspicion ; " you seem wandering
here," he added ; " if not without a purpose, at least without Or
shelter. Come with me ; a mattress and supper shall be yours.
It is not much I have to offer — but it is given freely."

No," answered the friar; "and yet I thank thee. But duty
detains me here. Tell me, what is thy name ? "

Steadman, the wool-staple," said the old man, more than a
little mortified that his proffered hospitality had been so unceremoniously

rejected ; for he was anxious to see more of the
wandering priest.

Formerly in the service of the lord of Cranfield ? " demanded
the friar ; " he who was foully murdered at Journal ? "

The same."

*' And afterwards of his lady during her widowhood ? "

True."

"And uncle to a young man named Cuthbert, the armourer, who
eight years since suddenly disappeared, after delivering a letter to
her majesty the queen from your former mistress ? "

The very same," replied Steadman, greatly agitated, for he had
never ceased to reproach himself as having been indirectly the
cause of his nephew's destruction, by sending him upon the fatal
expedition. " If you possess any clue to the poor boy's fate, in
mercy make it plain ; his widowed mother's blessing, an old
soldier's thanks, and Heaven's approving smile will recompense
you."

His fate," replied the friar, " has been a sad one ; the time hath
not arrived to speak more plainly."

But shall it be avenged ? " demanded the uncle of the unfortunate
armourer.

It shall."

And soon ? "

"And soon," repeated the mendicant; "Heaven is always just.
Guilt for awhile may flourish, innocence sink 'neath the shade of
calumny and ill ; justice at last, like the bright sun, shall break
majestic forth — the shield of innocence, the guard of truth. We
can but watch the hand upon the dial of old time," he added ;
our vain regrets, impatient murmuring, will not accelerate its
pace one hour."

Let me but live to hear it strike," said the old man, passionately,
and I have lived long enough ; my noble master will then be
avenged, my murdered nephew sleep in peace."

The friar fixed his keen eyes upon the speaker, like one accustomed
to read men at a glance. The scrutiny was apparently-satisfactory,
for the bluff old soldier met his gaze with the un-shrinking
confidence of an honest nature and a guileless heart ;
indeed, he had nothing to conceal — his life from boyhood upwards
had ever been as open as his speech.

Hast thou confidence in me ? " he demanded of the wool-comber.


'• I have."

And wilt thou f ollov>' my directions ? " continued the speaker.

I will, to the Avery letter."

And ask no questions ? "

And ask no questions," repeated Steadman, who would have
been puzzled to have accounted even to himself for the extraordinary

influence which, in so short a time, the friar had acquired
over him.

'Tis well ; so shall thy wishes he accomplished and thy nephew's
memory be avenged. Remain here," continued the mendicant,
till morning ; watch well the windows of yon gloomy mansion.
If you perceive a signal from them, haste for the officers of justice ;
the life of the Lady Mary will be then in danger."

The life of the Lady Mary ! " repeated his hearer, in a tone of
horror. " Oh ! do not trifle with me. She is my master's child ; I
love her like my own. I have held her a prattling, smiling infant
on my knees. Heaven ! " he added, with an expression of energy and
resolution beyond his years, " if any harm befall her, noble though
he is, these hands shall rend her false guardian limb from limb,
though I die upon a gibbet for the act. But how — how should
you know this ? "

Remember thy promise — no question ! " replied the stranger.

Tell me, at least," said Steadman, "who is to give the signal
which I must watch for ? "

I am."

How will you gain admittance to the house ? " demanded the
puzzled citizen.

Leave that to me."

You are not deceiving me ? "

*' Rely upon my faith."

With these words the mendicant approached the house. Avoiding
the principal porch, he passed to a side entrance used chiefly by the
servants of the household, and knocked gently with his staff: three
times. It was evident that he was expected, as the door was
immediately opened, and the stranger entered ; first turning round
and laying his finger upon his lip, as a signal to Steadman for
silence and discretion as he did so.

For more than an hour the old soldier continued to pace up and
down in front of the house, listening for every sound, and pondering
over in his mind the character, words, and bearing of the mysterious
being whose commands he found himself so strangely fulfilling.
At times he thought it was some friend or servant of the knight's
who had been amusing himself with his credulity — a suspicion
which his knowledge of the past events of his life tended to confirm
; and then again he doubted : there was a dignity and truthfulness
in his manner which, despite appearances, inspired confidence.

Be he in earnest or in jest," murmured the old man, " I'll do
his bidding ; if the latter, 'tis but one night passed as I have passed
many in my youth beside the watch-fire's blaze ; if the former, if
danger really threatens my master's child, her enemies shall find
that I am not too old to strike in her defence."

With this resolution he resumed his walk before the house, and
night still found him at his post.

CHAPTER V.

Night's iron tongue hath told the birth of mom ;
Now is the hour when pale-faced Murder walks,
And impious deeds, which shun men's gaze,
By guilty hands are wrought." — Old Play,

In a large oaken panelled chamber, whose projecting bay
windows faced the river, the Lady Mary was kept almost a
prisoner by her false guardian, whose fearful courage rose with the
crisis which his villainy had provoked. The farther he advanced in
his dark purposes, the more intense became his resolution, for his
heart had long been a stranger to the compunctious visiting of
conscience. Mercy might have turned with a hopeless sigh from
his stern visage, and meek-eyed Pity appealed to his humanity or
sympathy in vain. Of all the domestics of Cranfield, Bertha alone
had been permitted to attend the unhappy heiress to her new
abode. Had Sir John known the devotion of the faithful girl to'
her persecuted mistress, even that poor indulgence would have
been denied. The apartment was as desolate in its appearance as
the fortunes of its youthful inmate : it had originally been the
reception or state-room of the mansion, and the faded splendour of
its gilt furniture and purple hangings showed like mildewed tinsel
on a funeral pall. At one end a pair of richly-carved folding-doors
led to a long-deserted oratory, and from thence, by a winding
staircase, to the cell of the chaplain beneath : these doors were
invariably kept locked. Directly facing them was the general
entrance to the chamber. The heavy curtains were drawn before
the windows, and fell in massive, sombre folds upon the floor.
Nothing, in fact, could be more gloomy, more calculated to crush
the spirit of a captive — the stern reality of a dungeon would have
been cheerfulness compared to it.

'Tis past the hour of midnight ! " sighed the orphan, as she
turned the hour-glass, and replaced it on the table beside her ;
*' no chance, no hope that Walter will arrive to-night ! Should he
have fallen into my guardian's power, or Wolsey's ear can prove
deaf to my sad tale, how drear a fate will then be mine ! Oh !
there is madness in that thought ! " she cried, emphatically,
starting from her chair and pacing her lone prison. " Each way I
turn is doubt and misery. I am alone, friendless and unprotected
all have deserted me ; no friend, no aid — lost, lost ! "

In the passionate excitement of her sorrow the unhappy girl
approached the oratory, and was startled by a deep-drawn sigh.
Advancing to the door, *he listened attentively — hope and fear
alternately causing her heart to beat with fearful expectation ; the
sound, however, whatever the cause, was not repeated, and she
resumed her agitated walk, satisfied that it was nothing more than
the moaning of the night wind as it swept through the halls and
passages of the old mansion.

It is strange, when labouring under the influence of fear, how
quick the eye and ear become ; the falling of a leaf, the rustling
of a veil, the waving of a plume, fixes the latter, while the sight
measures the depth and outline of a shadow.

The sound which next attracted the Lady Mary's attention washer
own name, breathed in a voice so low it scarce broke silence.
She paused ; it was repeated ; the second time she felt assured
that she was not deceived : it was the faithful Bertha at the door
of her chamber, demanding if she was alone.

Alone with terror and despair," whispered her mistress, in the
same low tone.

The door was gently unbarred from without : as it slowly
moved upon its rusty, time-worn hinges, it gave a loud creak,
something like the shrill scream of a screech-owl disappointed of
its prey. Had an arrow been driven through the trembling
captive's heart she could not have felt a keener pang. It seemed
impossible the noise should not alarm the house. There was a
pause ; a minute seemed an age ; her breath became suspended ;
her arteries ceased to beat, nor did the life-impelling stream
resume its course till, without further noise, the portal was opened
sufficiently wide to admit her faithful attendant to her presence.
She was cautiously followed by a friar — the same who had set our
old friend Steadman on the outside of the house to watch.

Lady, dear lady," whispered Bertha, sinking upon her knee,
and kissing her mistress's hand ; " thank Heaven, we meet again ! "

Who is yon stranger ? " demanded the orphan, pointing to the
mendicant, whose features were hidden in his cowl.

A wandering friar."

Who gave him admittance to the house ? "

I did," replied the courageous girl, " I was on the watch,
determined to ask assistance of the first stranger who might
approach : Heaven has sent this good man to our aid. Courage,"
she added ; " courage, and you are saved."

The words of the speaker will explain the readiness with which
the stranger obtained entrance to the mansion. Perhaps he had
expected to find some other on the watch, for he had twice
inquired after the chaplain of his conductress, who explained to
him that the worthy man had that very evening been sent by Sir
John to Cranfield, in order most probably that he might not be a
witness to the scene of cruelty and oppression he was about to
enact. The friar had evinced both surprise and disappointment
at his absence ; for he had counted on him to baffle the plotters in
their dark scheme of blood.

A friar ! " exclaimed the captive ; " then hope remains ; and
with hope life and love. Father," she ' added, approaching the
holy man, and fixing her tearful, trusting eyes upon him, " you
will remain till morn or Walter comes ; you will protect me ?

Heaven knows I need protection. "Will yon not save me,
father ? "

Save thee from what or whom ? " demanded the mendicant, ina
tone of assumed surprise.

From my base kinsman's tyranny — from death," whispered
the suppliant — " or worse than death. He seeks my hand, not
from love or base desire — from a still darker passion, avarice.
Walter hath fled to Wolsey ; this my stern guardian knows, and
on my head will wreak a mean revenge. "Would," she added,
would I had been born a beggar ! "

Doubt not Wolsey's justice," replied the stranger, kindly ;
he will protect thy lover and redress thy wrongs. But you
spoke of death," he continued, lowering his voice ; " think you he
would dare "

Dare ! " whispered the Lady Mary, with a shudder ; " what
would not Sir John de Corbey dare ? This very night he hath
sworn to make me his. Earth hath no respect, heaven no law, he
hath not broken. You, even you — a priest of the Most High — he
would hold your blood as water, if the shedding of it advanced
his interests or his purpose."

Indeed ! " said the priest, drily, and much with the air of a
man who finds himself called upon suddenly and unarmed to
encounter a ferocious savage ; " is he so desperate a villain "i Then
we must use the best defence time and circumstances permit.
Girl," he added turning to Bertha, " dost thou love thy mistress ? "

With my life," answered the devoted maiden.

Go to the gate," resumed the mendicant — " the same at which
I entered. Aid Avill soon arrive ; friends whom I possess the
means to summon. You must admit them. If they or you
should fail," he added, solemnly, at the same time taking the
orphan by the hand, " why Heaven have mercy on us both ! "

And you ? " said Bertha, half-doubtingly, for she liked not the
thought of separation from her mistress.

Remain here with your lady," continued the friar.

There was a pause. The speaker, with the keen, quick perception
of a man accustomed to read the human heart, sav that he
was doubted. Without a moment's hesitation he advanced towards
the window, and craving the heavy drapery aside, beckoned the
two trembling females to approach the spot where he stood.

See you no one ? " he demanded, pointing to the burly figure of
Steadman, who, with eyes fixed upon the mansion, still kept watch.

We do," they answered, both together.

Carefully opening the huge casement, he leant forward and
waved his handkerchief in the air. The old soldier understood
the signal, and instantly set off in quest of the city guard.

'Tis Steadman ! " exclaimed the Lady Mary, who had recognised
him in the moonlight.

"Are you convinced ? " demanded the friar.

I am," said Bertha, kneeling and kissing the hem of his robe.
Assign me, father, what penance you think fit ; were it to walk
barefoot to St. Edmund's shrine, I merit it for having doubted of
thy faith one moment."

On a sign from the mendicant the speaker took a mute farewell
of her mistress, and cautiously descended the great staircase,
barring the door on the outside to prevent suspicion. No sooner
were the Lady Mary and the priest alone, than the latter advanced
to the curtains, and, drawing a long sharp weapon from beneath
his robe, began cutting the silken cords which confined them ;
these he knotted together till he formed one of sufficient length to
reach from the window to the ground. In a few minutes it was fixed.

Dare you venture .'' " he demanded, as soon as he had accomplished
his task.

Before the prisoner could reply, a deep, firm tread was heard
upon the staircase. The orphan trembled, for she recognised her
guardian's step : nor did the friar seem quite at ease on hearing it.

Too late, too late ! " he whispered ; " but fear not — succour
will soon arrive ; or, at the worst, I am armed and near thee.
Should the necessity arise, priest though I am, thine enemy shall
find I have the nerve to strike."

With these words the speaker retreated behind the curtains of
the window where he had affixed the rope, and where he could
watch the arrival of the aid which Steadman could not fail to bring.

Scarcely had he ensconced himself than Sir John de Corbey
entered the apartment, bearing in his hand a small silver cup.
The features of the knight were cold and stern — pale as a statue on
a tomb, and marked by the fixed lines which speak a mind resolved
on its purpose, be it for good or ill. As he slowly crossed the
room to place his burthen upon a table, the friar could almost have
imagined him the ministering priest of some infernal shrine ; nor
would he have been far wrong, for the evil heart is indeed a
demon's shrine, and the offerings humanity's worst passions.

It was painful to witness the expression of agony and terror in
the eyes of the poor orphan as she watched the action of her
guardian. Like the bird fascinated by the rattlesnake, she could
not withdraw her gaze. For several moments the murderer and
his victim regarded each other in silence. So violently beat the
heart of the trembling girl, that you might almost have heard its
deep pulsations. She was the first to speak, and, despite the terrors
which appalled her, her voice was calm, even as the horror of the
scene.

Guardian," she exclaimed, " in that hollow eye, that frowning
brow, and fixed compression of thy lip, I read a soul resolved upon
its purpose. Murder," she added, almost in a whisper, "foul,
unmanly, midnight murder."

Mary," replied Sir John, in a tone these coldness rendered his
words more terrible, " thou seest thy kinsman and judge."

My judge ! What crime have I committed ? "

Thou hast disgraced thy lineage," resumed the knight, " by
listening to a base-born peasant's love ; but never shall the proud
escutcheon of our house be dishonoured by thy marriage with the
unworthy object of thy headstrong passion."

Dishonoured ! " repeated the girl, with a look of withering
scorn and contempt, which even the sense of the peril in which
she stood could not restrain. " The murderer talks of dishonour !
Oh ! specious sophistry ! oh, vile pretence to cloak a deed thy cheek
would blush to name ! I am thy kinsman's orphan child — no
friend save thee. Break not the reed which' hath no other stay.
Thou hast a son — what wouldst thou feel to see him thus opprest ?
Guardian," she added, sinking on her knees before him, " stain not
thy soul with blood — mercy, mercy ! "

"Wilt thou be mine ? " he whispered, and the words hissed with
fearful passion through his clenched teeth.

"For my dead father's sake," she continued, still fixing her
imploring eyes upon him, " whose blood will rise against thee at
the bar of heaven — by my mother's broken heart, whose spirit now
is Watching over us, reflect, have pity ! "

Wilt thou be mine ? " he repeated, with increased but still
suppressed passion.

Never," said the orphan, rising from her knees, and fixing her
eyes with the mingled resignation and firmness of a martyr upon
him ; " death were less fearful than thy loathed embrace : think
not of it, dream not of it ; life thou mayest destroy, but never
crush my soul. Wed with thee," she continued with energy, " a
man of blood and mystery ! — my father's murderer ! Never, never !
demons would dance around our nuptial couch, and yelling furies
draw the curtain round us. Thy bride ! even in madness such
horror would be spared me""

The accusation of murder so suddenly brought against him
startled even her guardian's equanimity. The suspicions which
had connected his name with the death of the Knight of Cranfield
he had deemed long since buried in the grave of his victim ; but
now they rose again in stern reality before him. There was
something in the energy with which the unprotected girl accused
him of the murder of her father teri-ibie as well as dangerous ;
should she live, the accusation might be repeated and believed.
Instead of relenting from Ijjs purpose, her words confirmed it.
Pointing to the cup upon the table, he exclaimed, while passion
struggled with hate and mortification :

Then you behold your doom ! "

I will not die ! " shrieked the heiress, with a struggle ; " help
murder — help ! "

The tyrant sprang upon lier ; with one hand he stifled her
despairing cries, and with the other drew a short stiletto from his
bosom, and held it over her, as, overcome with terror, she sank
half-fainting across a chair between them. The friar, who all the
while had been upon the watch, was about to dart forward, when,
to his surprise, the doors of the deserted oratory were thrown open,
and a new actor appeared upon the scene. Henry de Corbey, his
hair bristling with horror, like an avenging angel darted between
his father and his victim ; with one hand he held the murderer's
wrist, who, like a spirit spell-bound, gazed upon him, and with the
Other raised the fatal chalice to his own innocent lips, and slowly
drained it off.

Father," he exclaimed, as he let fall the cup, " I drink forgiveness
of the crime ; thou art a childless man."

A cell of hopeless, dark despair, frantic as that which the
archangel gave when hurled from heaven, burst from the breast of
the guilty, wretched father, who stood transfixed like Cain when
the brand first seared his aching brow ; an idiot laugh succeeded,
so loud and vacant that echo trembled to repeat the sound. The
assassin was already punished. The friar, who, with his hood half-drawn
over his features, had emerged from his concealment, seeing
the danger to the orphan past, quickly regained his covert place
behind the curtain.

"Heaven help thee, gallant youth ! *' exclaimed the agitated
Mary, as her preserver sank upon the floor beside her ; " he is
dying — Henry, dear Henry — alas ! for me he dies ! Is there no
help — no aid ? "

None," sighed her cousin, on whom the draught had already
commenced its deadly work. " I am past the leech's skill ; but
thou art safe, dear Mary — safe, quite safe. Give me one kiss,
sweet coz," he added with a faint smile ; " Walter need not be
jealous now ! Do not forget the boy v/ho loved you like a man —
the kiss, the kiss ! "

With passionate grief the object of his early and devoted love
bent over him, and kissed the dying youth. At that moment, in
the impulse of her grateful and affectionate nature, gladly would
she have given her own life to have saved her deliverer. Had he
lived, the secretary might have found in him a dangerous rival,
for such pure devotion was well calculated to win a woman's heart.

At this moment a loud knocking and the sound of many voices
were heard at the great gate of the mansion. Steadman and the
expected assistance had arrived.

Think of me sometimes in your hours of mirth," sighed the
victim, whose faculties began gradually to be obscured ; for it was
the peculiar quality of the Italian's poison to destroy the principle
of life hy acting on the brain. " Where is my father ? How dark
the room grows ! — dark — dark — dark ! "

VOL. II. Cr 2

He is sinking — going ! " shrieked Mary, kneeling on the floor
beside him, and trying to raise the sufferer's head, which fell
heavily upon her breast. " His eyes are glazed : God ! is there no
aid — no help ? "

The agony of her voice roused the expiring youth, who, with a
last effort, raised his head from its throbbing pillow, fixed his
bloodshot eyes with mournful tenderness upon her, and imprinted
the last kiss of love and devotion on her lips, his soul exhaling in
the act. The smiling angel which welcomed his pure soul to
Paradise repaid it back as seraph hands threw wide the gates to
give him entrance.

Scarcely was the last sigh breathed, and the sacrifice of the
devoted boy accomplished, than Adam, followed by Steadman and
a portion of the city guard, rushed up the staircase and entered the
apartment. The sound aroused the knight from his death-like
torpor. For a moment consciousness returned, and his eyes rolled
wildly round the room, till they rested on the body of his son,
when, with a deep groan, he sank beside it. The leech comprehended
in a moment all that had passed, and a cold smile played
for an instant over his features. There must have been something
unusual in the tie which bound the Italian to his employer ;
whether of love or hate, he at least was faithful to him — for, with
the tact of a fiend and th plausibility of a sophist, he instantly
accused the Lady Mary of the murder.

No, no ! " cried the orphan, wildly, as soon as she perfectly
comprehended the fearful accusation, " his father did the deed —
to save my life — the poisoned cup. Henry — Henry "

Overcome with horror at the recollection of the scene and the
sufferings she had undergone, the unhappy girl burst into rapid
incoherent ravings, in which she alternately implored her
guardian's mercy and accused herself of having caused her cousin's
death.

You hear ? " said Adam, addressing the officer who commanded
the watch.

I do," replied the man, reluctantly ; " but I also remember that
she accused his father."

His father ! " exclaimed the Italian, in a tone of well-affected
indignation, " impossible ! See where that father lies," he added,
pointing to the insensible Sir John, who had thrown himself upon
the body of his son. " Who ever saw the murderer pillowed on
his victim's breast ? You must perform your duty."

Stay ! " cried Steadman, whose brain reeled with theconfusion
of the scene, so different from the one he expected to witness, but
whose confidence in the innocence of his master's child was never
for one moment shaken. " Some fiend hath been at Avork here ;
wait but a moment — she will explain it all — she is innocent. My
goui—life— honour, on the forfeit, if my words prove false !

«"

Mary," he added, in a tone of almost childish affection and
remonstrance, " Lady Mary, rose — ^I'ouse, for the honour of your
father's name — your mother's memory ; speak — confound this
lying villain with a word."

Where am I ? " sighed the heiress, with a look which indicated
the return of reason. " Steadman ! oh, I am safe with you — safe —
quite safe. You," she continued, bursting into a passionate flood
of tears, and throwing her arms, dike a frightened infant, round
the old man's neck, " you will not desert me ? "

Not while this tongue can wag," replied the old man,
endeavouring to speak firmly, " or this arm strike in thy defence.
But thou art accused of this night's fearful crime ; speak, and clear
thy fame of this suspicion.

I ! " said the girl, with a look of surprise and incredulity, " I
accused of my dear cousin's death ? No, no ; malice itself could
never forge a charge so base. I have a witness."

"A witness ! " repeated Adam, with a start of surprise.

A witness ! " repeated the officer.

Behold ! " she continued.

Rushing up to the curtain behind which the friar had been
concealed, she hastily tore it aside. He was gone. The cord
which remained fastened to the window explained the means of
his flight.

Gone ! " she exclaimed, her mind again beginning to wander
with the shock, " Then I am right ; it is a dream, a fearful
dream, and not reality. Wake me — wake me ! or I shall go mad."

To all interrogations the orphan persisted in asserting that it
was but a dream that had passed, and that her cousin lived ; nor
could the entreaties of Steadman or the questions of the officer
elicit further explanation from her. Despite his wish to believe
her innocent, his suspicions were confirmed, and he felt it his
duty to guard her till morning in her chamber. To add to the
confusion of the scene. Bertha was nowhere to be found ; all
seemed to conspire against her.

The next day the magistrates arrived, and a more lengthened
investigation took place ; at the end of which, despite the evidence
of Steadman, the plausible reasoning of Adam prevailed, and the
orphan heiress of Cranfield was committed, on the charge of
murdering her cousin, to the city prison. The absence of her
attendant, who was deemed an accomplice, told against her,
and the old soldier's story of having been informed of her danger
and set on to watch by a wandering friar was treated as a fable
invented to save her.

After the arrest of the Lady Mary, Sir John de Corbey, who
was still insensible, was borne from the chamber to his couch,
where for four-and-twenty hours he lay raving and struggling
between life and death. The leech was his only attendant — the

only witness of the fearful accusations uttered by the sick man in
his frenzy. The skill of his physician at last, however, prevailed,
and he sank into a slumber so deep and still that the slight
pulsation of his wrist, to which the Italian repeatedly applied his
finger, alone indicated a difference between it and death.

On the second morning after the murder — for the sacrifice of
the gallant youth was at least a moral assassination — the wretched
man awoke. At first he imagined that he had been labouring
under a fearful dream, and gazed with a degree of satisfaction on
the well-remembered objects in the apartment, which the sun
already lighted with its sickly rays as they penetrated through the
time-stained windows, rich with the armorial bearings of his
ancient house.

Thank Heaven," he murmured, *' it was but a dream ; but, oh !
a dream of terror ; it hath quelled the raging fever of my blood,
broken my heart's stern purpose. Perhaps Heaven** he added,
after a pause, " hath sent it, in its mercy, to warn me from perdition.
Memory ! memory ! would I could recall the past ! — would
I could repent ! "

The wretched man, still labouring under the impression that the
fearful scene he had witnessed was but a vision, raised his hands
as if to pray, when a low, hissing laugh startled him. Springing
from the couch, he beheld the minister of his crimes, the cold and
serpent-like Adam, regarding him with a mocking and scornful
lip ; the expression of his countenance resembled Satan's watching
the unavailing regret of a fallen spirit. In an instant the reality,
the dreadful reality, that he was a childless man — that the scene of
blood, the recollection of which shook his iron frame with agony,
had really passed, and was no creation of his distempered fancy,
flashed upon him. With a shriek he exclaimed, as he started to
his feet :

Tormentor — fiend — avoid me ! Thy presence scares the pitying

angel from my side. My boy — my boy ! "

Fiend ! " repeated the Italian, in a tone of derision — " you
mistake, I am an angel."
An angel ! "

"Ay. Lucifer was one. Am I worse than he ? But this is
weak and imbecile," he added ; " did not friendship plead, I
would desert thee — leave thee a wreck upon misfortune's tide —
the sport of Wolsey and his minion, Walter — the scoff of fools —
the landmark of dishonour ! "

Dishonour ! Hath it not fallen .? " said the wretched man,
Writhing ; but, at the same time, listening to the subtle temper
with a kind of latent hope. " Is not my name pronounced with
execration ? "
No'"
*' Do not all curse the murderer ?

♦' Yes."

*' Shall I not be dragged," resumed Sir John, " 'mid hooting,
forth to shameful trial, and a more shameful death .? "

Not unless you seek it," replied Adam, in the same quiet,
passionless tone with which one answers an impatient woman or a
fretful child ; " that fate at least may be avoided."

How ? " demanded the knight ; " how to be avoided ? "

The Lady Mary is accused as the assassin."

By whom ? "

By me."

There was something so monstrous, so fiend-like, in the accusation,
that even Sir John de Corbey, tutored and hardened as he
was in villainy, shrank with horror and shame at the thought of
sacrificing the innocent girl, even to secure his own vile safety :
sorrow had touched his heart till it felt almost human.

Mary accused as the assassin ! " he exclaimed, " My kinsman's
orphan child — she who loved him with a sister's love — perish on a
scaffold for my crime ! I never will consent."

Oh, 3-es, you will," said the Italian, with his usual cool sneer ;
for the doom you dread must be her fate or yours — or yours," he
repeated, in a low, Impressive tone, which gave a fearful meaning
to his words.

"What chance, what likelihood, to give a colour to the charge ? "
faltered his dupe.

Your son removed, does she not become your heiress ? "

Heiress ! to a beggar ! "

The leech quietly drew a sealed packet from his bosom, and
silently gave it to the knight, who hastily broke the seal ; cold
drops of agony fell from his forehead as his eye glanced rapidly
over its contents. It informed him that his cousin, Richard de
Corbey, with whom for years he had been at variance, was dead,
and had left him heir of all his broad possessions. He was rich,
rich enough to glut the desire of avarice ; but wealth arrived too
late — he was a childless man. From the date of the letter it
ought to have arrived at least two days sooner. The murderer's
punishment even in this world had commenced.

Too late, too late ! " he groaned, as he crushed the letter, which
Adam, for some reason of his own, had purposely kept from him ;
"had it arrived but two days sooner, hell had been spared its
triumph, heaven its saint. Henry, my boy ! " he added, frantically ;
"in whom alone I lived — for whom I sinned — my own heart's
pride — the tie which made it human — wake from thy grave, e'en
though it be to curse me ! Henry ! Henry ! "

Mad with despair and remorse, the guilty father dashed himself
upon the couch where he had so lately lain, and continued to call
upon his murdered son till exhausted nature took refuge in
insensibility.

"Not yet, not yet," muttered the leech, as, like an exulting
fiend, he glared upon him ; " each pang, each groan and tear, are
mine, and I will not abate one jot of the account. My debt is
lessened, but not paid. Death-with repentance on his lip, might
Ain him heaven ; and he would meet her there," he added.
Memory, I thank thee for that thought ; it steels my heart again ;
'tis iron, iron ! "

With these fearful words, which expressed the speaker's long-smothered
hate, and gave some clue to the cause, the Italian
poured into a small cup the remaining portion of the draught
which he had previously administered, and poured it down the
throat of the unhappy victim of artifice and passion. The effect
was speedy, for the wretched man recovered again to life and
consciousness.

Probably the drug possessed some peculiar power of deadening
all violent emotion, for he was calm, and spoke like one reviving
from a stupor, or perhaps his better angel had deserted him.

So," he muttered, more in the tone of a man conversing with
himself than one who addresses his conversation to another, " Mary
is accused as the assassin ? "

The tempter smiled, for he felt certain of his victim.

Yes — yes," he continued, " I am resolved ; my name shall yet
descend unspotted to the tomb. This great act passed, within the
cloister's shade I'll hide my misery and despair for ever."

A cloister ! " repeated Adam in a tone of contempt ; " pshaw !
pray by proxy ! Besides," he added, in a low, bland voice, " you
are not yet so old but that a son may bear to time unborn the
proud name of De Corbey."

This time the probe had gone too far, and the sufferer winced
beneath the pang : he felt the bitter sneer the words conveyed, the
biting mockery ; but was too much exhausted, too spiritless, to
resent them.

Sleep — give me sleep ! " he murmured ; " heart and brain can
bear no more."

The leech arose from his seat, and drew the heavy curtains
round the couch ; further drugs he knew to be unnecessary, for
exhausted humanity was sure to seek relief in nature's best
medicine, sleep.

He was not deceived ; in a few minutes the deep breathing of
the knight assured him that his prayer was granted ; and he reseated
himself at the foot of the couch to watch patiently by his side.

While thus occupied, the thoughts of many an early year and
blighted hope passed through his burning brain ; perhaps his
recollections were of that sunny land in which he first drew
breath — of home, of friends, of youthful love, or passion's broken
vow. Whatever were the subjects of his thoughts or workings of
his mind, they produced a strange effect upon the old man's

countenance. The rigid lines which the long habitude of self-command
had marked upon his features gradually softened ; his
thin lip slightly quivered, and a tear, a large round tear, fell like a
drop of liquid lava on his cheek — the first he had shed for years,
and doomed to be the last.

Why this weakness ? " he sighed, as he dashed the stranger
aside ; " why this relenting, when life and its sole purpose are so
near accomplished ? Do I regret the oath I swore — to be revenged,
though I lost heaven in the attempt ? It is fulfilled," he added,
gazing on the speaker ; " for I have steeped his soul so deep in
crime that mercy's tears gushing through endless time would fail
to cleanse it. He is lost, body and soul — here and hereafter lost.
My years of misery soon will be atoned."

Why the Italian took the fearful oath our readers will not long
wait to learn ; how he had kept it they know already.

The day at last arrived which was to consign the remains of the
young and gallant Henry de Corbey to their final resting-place.
His father, whose short-lived fit of remorse had passed, had given
orders that the funeral should be conducted with a magnificence
proportionate to his newly-acquired wealth and sorrow, as if the
escutcheoned banner and emblazoned pall could render death less
terrible, mocking the pomp of woe. The grave had been dug in
the chapel of Om' Lady, in the cathedral of the city, the burying-place
of all of the house of Corbey.

In honour of the family of the deceased, whose ancestors had
been amongst the earliest benefactors of the church, every altar of
the majestic edifice was illuminated and adorned with funereal
pomp. At the high altar the prior himself officiated, whilst low
Masses for the dead were celebrated at all the others. As usual,
the body was placed under a catafalque in the centre of the choir ;
the childless father, the now wealthy Sir John, was seated at the
head as chief mourner ; whilst many who shared his blood, or had
been the companions of his son, were gathered round the bier.
The solemn rite had reached that part where the priest pronounces
the introit :

Requiem sternum dona eis, Domine,
Et lux perpetua laceat eis ;

when a laugh — a maniac laugh — of unearthly triumph rang through
the vaulted aisles and startled the officiating ministers. Most who
heard it crossed themselves, and even the heart of the hardened
murderer beat wildly as at the anticipation of some fresh horror.
There was a pause in the service, and it was some time before the
prior, with a faltering voice, could proceed with the words —

Te diet hymns, Deus. in Sion,

Et tibi redditus notum in Jerusalem —

when a second yell, more fearful than the first — a yell which spoke

the very madness of mirth — again startled the assistants' ears.
This time the confusion was complete ; the affrighted priests
replaced the half-raised chalice on the altar, and men gazed upon
each other in superstitious terror.

The prior took the crucifix in his hand, and, turning towards the
crowd at the lower end of the church, demanded who it was who
had dared to interrupt, by such unchristian levity, the holy
sacrifice.

The people divided, and a female figure advanced from amongst
them ; her long white hair, bleached more by sorrow than by age,
had escaped from the linen coif which should have confined it ;
her grey eyes flashed with all the fearful brightness of insanity ;
and her withered arm, which she kept waving wildly above her
head, as if in triumph, gave her more the appearance of a pagan
priestess than a Christian widow. It was the mother of the
unfortunate Cuthbert, the armourer, the maniac sister of our old
acquaintance Steadman. She was well known in the church,
where she was a constant attendant ; for unless she came in
contact with Sir John de Corbey, or his name was mentioned
before her, her demeanour was quiet and inoffensive ; but at such
times the fever of her brain returned with double violence, and
her imprecations on the supposed murderer of her son were wild
and terrible to listen to.

The knight gazed on her, as she advanced towards him, with ill-suppressed
terror ; to his superstitious imagination — for, like most
infidels, he was superstitious — there was something ominous in the
encounter at such a time and occasion.

Ha ! " exclaimed the unhappy Maud, " the vulture hath lost
its young — the tiger mourns its cub — ha ! ha ! ha ! — I knew that
Heaven would avenge me in its own good time. Please," she
added, in an almost imploring voice, " where is my son ? We will
bury them both together. My brain — my hot brain — would be
cooler could I but pray beside my poor boy's grave ! "

Retire, Maud," said one of the priests, mildly, at the same time
so placing himself between her and the catafalque as to prevent
her approaching further.

"I'll not retire," shrieked the manaic, "till he has given me
back my son. I've been a patient wretch too long. When God
hath smitten him," she added, pointing to the coffin, " why should
I hesitate to curse ? He hath blighted my widowed years — plucked
the only flower in my life's path ; and when I ask his bones — my
poor boy's bones — that I may lay them by his father's side, and
sleep myself there, you bid me peace ! Peace to a mother's heart !
peace to a childless widow ! — ha ! ha ! ha ! There is no peace whilst
yet the murderer lives ! "

Maud ! Maud ! " exclaimed the priest, mildly — " this is
madness ; think on the time, and on the sacred place."

And you defend him ! " continued the unhappy mother, in the
same excited strain ; " but priests and all — all are set against me !
Oh ! would, like thee, I had the power as well as the will to curse
him ! "

"Woman," faltered the knight, and the expression of his
countenance was ghastly as he spoke, " I know nought of thy son ;
leave me in my sorrow to mourn for mine."

Remove her from the church," said the prior, in a voice of
authority, " and let the rites proceed."

In obedience to the command of their superior several of the
monks left their stalls and surrounded the desolate creature, who
violently resisted their firm but humane efforts to lead her from
the church. Several of her friends and neighbours assisted them.

*' We shall meet again ! " she screamed, shaking her meagre arm
at Sir John ; " twice shall we meet again ! I see it now — the trial
and the scaffold — ha ! the scaffold ! ha, ha, ha ! Cuthbert shall be
avenged — bravely avenged ; and his mother's broken heart repose
at last in peace."

Exhausted by the force of her struggles, poor Maud ceased to
resist their efforts, and was at last conducted from the cathedral by
her friends and the priests. As soon as she was gone the Mass for
the dead was resumed ; but a chill had fallen upon the spirits of
all who assisted. The calm spirit of devotion had been scared
from their breasts, and a vague sentiment of terror supplied its
place ; so that, although the rites proceeded, they proceeded coldly.

As soon as the service was accomplished the body was removed
to the chapel of Our Lady — there to remain till night, when the
workmen would arrive to place it in the final resting-place of its
race. One by one the mourners, with a cold salutation to the
knight, departed, leaving the bereaved father alone with the dead.
In quitting him no friendly hand had grasped his, no soothing
voice had whispered consolation in his ear ; it was evident that
even those who shared his blood, or who had loved his son,
regarded him with distrust ; even his bereavement occasioned
little sympathy. Men regretted the gallant Henry de Corbey for
his own sake, but pronounced his death — they knew not wherefore
yet — a judgment upon his dark, unsocial parent.

It was a melancholy picture — the fierce victim of his own evil
passions standing alone in that solitary chapel before the last of
his children. Where were now the hopes for which he had
steeped his soul in crime and bartered his heart's repose ? — ashes,
ashes. Whilst standing before the coffin of the being he had
loved with all the strong energy of his nature, how many a faded
dream recalled itself — how many a broken promise ! And bitterly
did his self-accusing heart regret that he had been deaf to his
high-spirited boy's entreaties. The tempter Adam was no longer
near him. For an instant his long-inculcated lessons of infidelity

were forgot ; the shadow of holy thoughts fell on him, and for the
first time for years he felt disposed to pray.

Just as he was about to bend the knee, the same wild laugh
which had startled him in the church fell on his ear. He looked
up, and beheld the maniac Maud threatening him through the
window of the chapel ; despair fell on his soul, and he rushed
from the spot.

For him the hour of mercy was for ever past. The assassin

could not pray.

CHAPTER VI.

On the morning after the interment of Henry de Corbey, crowds
of citizens, in their holiday costume, accompanied by their sight-loving
wives and daughters, might be seen wending their way
towards St. Stephen's Gate, then, as now, the principal entrance to
the city from the London road. Here and there an alderman, in
his furred gown and wand of office, who had been too late at the
Guildhall for the procession, fended the crowd, impatient to join
his brethren at the above-named gate. The more substantial citizens
ventured a familiar jest with these tardy dignitaries as they
hurried by, which was repaid by a smile or passed with indifference,
according to the relative importance of each man in his
ward. The jokes of the weavers and handicraftsmen only reached
their ears after they had passed them ; for the speakers were far
too politic to annoy — unless upon the sly — those who might one
day have it in their power to repay them tenfold for their want of
prudence. The centre of the street was occupied by a procession
of the clergy, who, with banner and cross in air, marched in
stately pomp to the place of rendezvous. First came the Dominicans,
who were i^uch disliked by the lower order of people, on
account of a toll which they exacted from all who passed the
bridge adjoining their monastery. Then the secular clergy of the
city, the only ecclesiastics who were well received ; for their faces
were familiar to the people as household friends — comforters whom
they applied to in affliction for consolation or advice. After these
came the prior and monks of the cathedral, escorted by a strong
body of their tenants and dependants, who, well armed, marched
on each side of them. ,

We have before alluded to the disputes between the city and
the Church touching their respective jurisdictions and the
privileges of their offices. Matters had risen to such a crisis that
Wolsey himself was expected to arbitrate between them : and it
was to await the arrival of the all-powerful minister that the
citizens and dignitaries of Norwich were thus hurrying to the city
gates.

The armed force by which the prior and monks were accompanied
was an unnecessary display. The inhabitants, who had
right upon their side, were far too prudent to prejudice their cause
by any act of violence at such a moment, especially as it was known
that the Duke of Suffolk, the brother-in-law of the king, with a
body of eight hundred of the militia of the adjoining counties,
accompanied the Cardinal of York in his almost regal progress.

The slow pomp of Wolsey's journey was torture to the impatient,
fiery Walter, who rode in his splendid train. They had journeyed
rapidly enough till they reached Bury St. Edmund's, where his
eminence thought fit to make a retreat at the shrine of the
martyred king and saint. By the term "retreat," in the Catholic
Church, is meant the absolute seclusion during two, three, or iiiore
days from all worldly occupation, and devoting the time to
penitence and prayer. The spot selected is generally some
religious house, where the harassed soul, yielding to the influence
of solitude and prayer, tempers its weakened energies in blest,
religious, holy, calm repose.

During the three days which Wolsey devoted to this pious
purpose he remained close shut up in his cell ; the abbot of the
monastery alone had access to him. All earthly pomp and
distinctions of rank were cast aside ; nor could the officers of his
household distinguish their imperious master from the numerous
penitents who knelt before the shrine. The same robe enveloped
all — noble and burgher, layman and priest.

On the fourth day orders were given to resume their march to
Thetford, where the procession was joined by the Duke of Suffolk
and his men, under whose escort it advanced to Norwich,

Here come the loiterers ! " exclaimed a thin, sallow-looking
personage, whose robe and chain denoted that he filled the
important office of mayor of the ancient and then flourishing city.
"Holy St. George! to be behind at such a moment, when the
magistracy should put their best face forward ! See," he continued,
pointing out the procession of the clergy to the tvv'o aldermen who
joined him under the noble archway of the gate, " how well our
enemies are arrayed — no loiterers, no absentees there, A wiseman
should take a lesson even from his foes."

Why, ay," said the elder of the party, to whom the reproof had
been addressed, " St. Peter has used his crook to some purpose —
not a sheep of the holy flock seems wanting. How the pious
wethers bleat ! " he added, as the hymn of the monks rose above
the murmurs of the crowd, thickly ranged on each side of the
street.

For shame ! " said the tov.'n-clerk, who, being a priest — no
unusual circumstance at that period — did not relish the jest upon
Mb order ; " is it thus you speak of the Church ! Out upon thee
for a Lollard, and no true Christian ! "

Not of the Church, father," replied the burly alderman, " but
of the shepherds, who think more of the fleece than the flock,
more of Peter's pence than Peter ; and, as for being a Lollard, I
pay my Easter dues as regular as e'er a citizen in my ward."

By this time the rival parties faced each other, the corporation
and their officers occupying one side of the gate — the clergy, with
their banner-bearers and retainers, the other. In their respective
positions they very much resembled a cat and dog, restrained from
biting or scratching by the presence of their master with the
whip — Wolsey was that master.

Scarcely had the parties arranged themselves, than a horseman
was seen approaching from the high road. He dashed along at a
rapid rate, nor drew rein till the nostrils of his reeking charger
were in a line with the mayor's face, which absolutely became
purple with indignation at the want of respect paid to his scarlet
robe and chain of office. The rider wore the livery of the Duke
of Suffolk, who had married the Queen Dowager of France — the
rapacious Henry's sister. It was in allusion to this unequal
alliance that his grace assumed the well-known device :

Cloth of frieze, be not too bold,

Though thou art match'd with cloth of gold ;

Cloth of gold, do not despise,

Though thou art match'd with cloth of frieze.

The conduct of the fortunate noble was as prudent as his device,
since he retained through life the favour of his capricious and
tyrannical brother-in-law, whose friendship, generally speaking,
was as uncertain as his love.

Advance, my masters ! " exclaimed the horseman ; " his
eminence the cardinal, and my lord of Suffolk, are within bowshot
of your walls. Advance, and quickly, unless you churlishly
wish such honourable guests to knock at your very gates before
you bid them welcome."

The speaker, being in the service of so great a man as the duke,
deemed it unnecessary to use more courteous phrase in addressing
the authorities of the city, whom, as a military man, he looked
down upon with disdain as a parcel of weavers, traders, and
spinners.

Humph ! " whispered the mayor to the senior alderman ', "if
the jackal barks so loudly, what will the lion's roar be ? Would
we were well out of the quarrel with our neighbours ! See how
confidently the prior smiles ! I suppose we must move on."

Before his worship could give the necessary order to advance,
the question was decided for him by the town-clerk, who quietly
told the fellow to return to his master, and say that the magistrates
and citizens, in conformity with ancient usage, would receive both
himself and his eminence of York at the city gate. Astonished at
the order, the messenger was about to reply, but was cut short by

the speaker, who, eying him with an expression of contempt,
demanded how long he had been promoted from the guard-room
to the council-chamber of his grace ; and bade him at once,
without further parley, retire with his message — a piece of advice
which the discomfited horseman obeyed.

Treachery ! " exclaimed the mayor, appealing to the aldermen ;
clear treachery ! The priest has sold us to the prior ! Wolsey
will never pardon such a message ! Let all who love the city
follow me," he added ; " it may not yet be too late to retrieve the
evil impression of his words."

Several of the less clear-sighted dignitaries who shared his
worship's opinion were about to follow him ; the officer with the
mace had already shouldered the ensign to precede them, when
the voice of the the town-clerk arrested the man.

Whither go you ? " he demanded.

"To precede his worship and the aldermen," replied the
functionary.

Remain where you al-e," said the priest ; " if Caleb Brown, the
cloth-weaver, chooses to pay his respects to the Duke of Suffolk
and the Cardinal of York, Heaven forbid that I should prevent
him. Doubtless he will be honourably received," he added,
sarcastically ; " but, as Mayor of Norwich, his dignity and office
leave him the moment he passes the city gates."

Ha ! ha 1 " chuckled the alderman whom the peppery chief
magistrate had reproved for being late ; " broad-cloth within,
linsey-wolsey without ! Who would have thought that standing
on the right side of a stone wall could so have improved the quality
of a man ? Ha ! ha ! ha ! Pity it can't do as much for our
merchandise ; it would raise the value of the city tolls."

The jovial laugh of the speaker was echoed by most of the
corporation, who, sooth to say, were becoming somewhat tired of
the pompous, dictatorial manner of his worship, and enjoyed his
confusion.

You have hit me hard. Master Bolton," said the little man —
for that was the town-clerk's name — trying to swallow his
mortification ; " but I forgive you, inasmuch as my own zeal
outran discretion. You are right — quite right," he continued, in a
patronising tone ; " it is not for the dignity of the city that the
chief magistrate should quit the walls."

Nor his o^vn," added the previous speaker, who seemed
mightily to enjoy the joke.

Eager to secure the favourable opinion of the judge, upon whose
opinion so much depended, the prior and monks took advantage of
the dispute amongst their rivals' party to advance, that they might
be the first to bid his eminence welcome to the ancient city, and
by contrasting their zeal with the citizens' supineness, offer a
delicate flattery, of which no man of his age was perhaps more

susceptible than Wolsey. Overreached the spot where the
cardinal and duke had halted just as the returned messenger
repeated, with certain additions, the town-clerk's reply. Suffolk,
who was anything but a proud man, listened to it with
indifference ; but there was an angry spot on the churchman's
brow, which presaged the reception of the city authorities when
they should meet ; the prior, on the contrary, was most graciously
received.

We are pleased to believe so ! " exclaimed Wolsey, with a flushed
brow, at the conclusion of the address which the town-clerk read,
and which expressed the joy of the magistrates and citizens at
receiving him within their ancient walls ; " although, God's truth,
you gave scant earnest of it, in waiting, like unwilling hosts, till
we approached your gates, before you bade us welcome."

So please your eminence, it was to testify our deep respect."

Respect ! " repeated the cardinal, in a doubtful tone ; " the
mode was somewhat novel."

Respect," repeated the town-clerk, modestly but firmly ; " here
for ages the city has been accustomed to receive its sovereigns and
rulers ; the usage, my good lord, is older even than our earliest
charter."

Wolsey's brow cleared up — the storm was passing.

Here we are magistrates and authorities ; our voices have a
respect, our homage value ; beyond this gate we are nothing more
than simple citizens, unfit to thrust themselves into your gracious
presence, where reverent respect alone should speak, and bold,
presuming confidence be dumb."

This time the churchman smiled, for the flattery, though
apparent, was neither uncalled for nor indelicate.

Enough, master clerk," he said, " enough ; we knew not that
the charter of your goodly city was so limited. Ere our departure
we \-/ill speak further on the matter, and see if it cannot be
amended ; meanwhile, let the mayor and aldermen precede us to
our lodging. We are my lord of Norfolk's guests," he added,
bowing to the duke, v\'ho rode upon his right hand, " and trust to
spend some days within your walls."

The windows in St. Stephen's Street and the Market Place,
through which the procession passed, were filled with the wives
and daughters of the gentry and citizens, all eager to catch a
glimpse of the magnificent minister, who;. state was said to rival
his master's. Anxiously did Walter, who rode in the cavalcade,
scrutinise each fair face as he slowly moved along, in the hope of
recognising the heiress of Cranfield. Little did he deem that the
object of his search was a prisoner in the ancient keep of Norwich
Castle, upon a charge of murdering her kinsman. Lovely were
the forms, red the lips, and bright the eyes which met his gaze ;
but unfortunately they were neither the forms, the lips, nor eyes

he sought, and the chill of disappointment fell upon his heart ashe
reined his steed in the court-yard of the Duke of Norfolk's
stately palace, without having met with one familiar face amongst
the crowd, or heard a single voice to bid him welcome. As soon
as his eminence and the two dukes had entered the house, he
threw the reins of his horse to one of the numerous grooms, and
rushed into the street to make his way to Steadman's, where he
felt assured of obtaining some tidings of his mistress. He found
the old man disconsolately seated in the chamber at the end of his
warehouse, his pale, anxious face reclined upon his hand, and his
eyes red with weeping. Walter was much shocked, deeming at
first that it was illness which had changed him. His sister Maud
was tranquilly seated by the diamond latticed window, which
looked upon the river, reading her missal. The excitement of the
previous day had passed away, and the maniac was comparatively
calm.

As the spurs upon the heels of the young man rang upon the
stone floor, the honest wool-comber raised his eyes and recognised
him. Their meeting, though cordial, was a sad one. Nothing
could equal the astonishment and indignation of Walter Lucas on
hearing the death of Henry de Corbey, and the accusation which
it had brought upon the Lady Mary. The old man's tale of the
mendicant friar who had set him on to watch, and his inexplicable
disappearance, alarmed and confused him. The future appeared
like a mist, through which appalling shadows alone were faintly
visible.

Oh ! 'tis a deep-laid scheme," he cried, *' to lime the fluttering
bird ; the snare has cunningly been laid, but shall as cunningly be
broken, and despite his rank and ill-acquired wealth. Sir John de
Corbey shall find "

Anathema ! anathema ! "' shrieked the hitherto tranquil Maud,
bursting into her usual strain of mingled fury and insanity on
hearing the name of the man whom she believed to be the assassin
of her son. " His blood shall become a curse, and his race extinct
his hearth a desert as lonely as my heart. I had a dream, a
dream "

Be calm, Maud," said her brother, kindly. " Remember that
Heaven works all things to its purposes."

I know, I know," resumed the heart-broken mother, " that I
must be patient ; he told me so. Cuthbert, my boy, appeared tome
last night, his bonnet falling o'er his auburn locks, his blue
eyes bright with strange intelligence ; but then his cheek was
pale — oh ! so pale, it pained my heart to gaze on it. Shall I tell
you what he whispered me ? — that I should be revenged — ha !
ha ! revenged at last ! — and so I must be patient. Yes, yes," she
added, mr^Jngly, as if replying to her own distempered thoughts,
"it will be cleared up soon."

VOL. II. H 2

*• It will indeed," said Walter ; " forgotten deeds are hourly
brought to light ; no book so sealed but time unfolds the page,
and keen-eyed justice reads the damning record of our crimes at
last."

What mean you ? " demanded Steadman, struck by the
Solemnity of his words and manner.

Nothing," replied the young man ; for the strict command of
Wolsey to keep silence respecting the discovery of the unfortunate
armourer's bones fettered his tongue, " or at least nothing more
than to inculcate faith and patience." Fearing to be questioned
further upon the subject, their visitor hastily took his leave,
promising to return the following day. The first spot to which he
directed his steps was the castle, where he vainly prayed for an
interview with the prisoner ; for the governor was in the interests
of her accuser, whose newly acquired wealth gave him the means
of paying largely for the services of all who sell their souls for
gain. Disappointed in his intention, with a heavy heart he turned
from the ancient keep, and retraced his way to the palace of the
Duke of Norfolk, where our readers may remember the cardinal
was lodged. His purpose was, if possible, to obtain an audience of
Wolsey, the last anchor on which he could rely in this sudden
shipwreck of his hopes.

It was not till after the evening banquet that our hero found
the opportunity he sought.

Disencumbered of his robes of state, and wrapped in a gown
lined with rich sables, the prelate was seated in his private
chamber, reading a variety of papers ; some treated of the pending
divorce between Henry and Katherine-others were letters from
the French king, who, taking advantage of the coolness between
the C ours of England and Spain, sought to renew the alliance
against the Emperor Charles V., who warmly espoused the cause
of his unfortunate kinswoman, and used his influence with the
Pope to defeat the perhaps legitimate demand of the English
monarch : we say legitimate, because in Henry's justification it
must not be forgotten that the principal universities and legists of
Europe had all but unanimously given their opinions in his
favour.

It was a tangled web he had to unravel ; in it were mingled the
passions of the king, the insincerity of the pontiff, and the
inflexible obstinacy of the queen, who defended the validity of her
marriage with a firmness which her husband's supplications and
the arguments of his councillors had equally failed to shake. To
Henry's honour it must be remembered that, till the final sentence
which Cranmer eventually pronounced, the unhappy Katherine
was treated by him with all honour. Wolsey was too clear-sighted
not to perceive the rocks and quicksands by which he was
surrounded, and even his firm spirit trembled at the danger. It

was, therefore, with Something like pleasure that he beheld the
tapestried entrance to his chamber drawn aside, and Walter
present himself. The presence of the youth was a relief to his
weary, overtaxed mind. The great man almost smiled as the
youth bent the knee before him.

We have heard it all ! " he exclaimed ; " Henry de Corbey's
death, and the knight's accusation. I fear me our retreat at Bury
has had an evil influence on the poor maid's fortunes,"

It has indeed ! " sighed Walter, who felt that, if his master had
but arrived those three days sooner, all would have been well.

But not irreparable," said the cardinal. " That is," he added,
gravely, " if she be innocent."

If she be innocent ! " repeated her lover. " My life that she is
innocent ! Mary — the good, the gentle Mary — guilty of murder !
Should an angel's tongue, my lord, proclaim her guilty, I never
could believe it."

You vouch it boldly," observed Wolsey.

Because I know her heart — her soul — her mind; and all are
sinless as a young seraph's thought. I have watched their opening
dawn — weighed in love's balance each rising impulse, action, word
sand found, like angel's smiles, each purer than the last."

Such," said the churchman, " is the blind confidence of youth,
which believeth all things where it loves. The heart's bitter task
from the cradle to the grave is but to forget its trust in man's
integrity and woman's faith. As we advance," he continued, " in
life's dull road, mask after mask is rent aside, till we behold the
idol of our dreams stripped of the grace imagination lent it. In
all humanity's sad, stern reality, we wake from dreaming only
with our footsteps in the grave."

If this be true, my lord," answered his hearer, " let me descend
there with unbroken dreams. Better to live the world's blind
fool, than its far-seeing cynic. I could not bear to feel within my
heart no other tenant than dark mistrust, or thrust forth
friendship and confiding love, to make the seat of life a charnel-house."


A cold, bitter smile passed over the features of his eminence ashe
listened to the impassioned words of the speaker. Perhaps he
remembered the time when he believed like him ; perhaps he
doubted his sincerity, and demanded of himself if the young man
was not acting a part to win his confidence. He resolved to try
him further.

Think you," he demanded, " that Sir John de Corbey could
have been accessory to his son's death ? "

Heaven forbid that I should wrong mine enemy," said Walter ;
not willingly, my lord. He loved the boy too well ; he was his
hope, his life's ambition — a being of generous impulse and high
thought — a heart so pure, a spirit so ingenuous, they made men

wonder at capricious nature that such a son should spring from
such a father,"

Wolsey's brow relaxed, for he Ttnew that the south had
measured justice both to his rival and his enemy.

There is some mystery," continued his visitor, " which time
or chance may give the key to. my dread lord," he added,
one word, one little word, from you will save her. We have a
witness, a wandering friar, who, concealed within the chamber,
witnessed young Henry's death."

A wandering friar ! " repeated his hearer.

Put off the trial till that man be found," continued Walter ;
upon my knees I ask it, — for life, fame, love, all hang upon his
breath. Can you hesitate, my lord, when you already have such
fearful proof of what her enemies are capable ? "

I cannot stay the course of Justice," said Wolsey. " There are
respects where even power must pause."

But you can guide her steps, my lord," interrupted the pleader.
*' Remember, she is blindfold, and her sword, without your arm
to stay it, may strike the innocent and spare the guilty."

"What I dare do, I will," resumed his master ; " orders shall be
given to find the man you speak of. Have you," he demanded,
fixing his eyes keenly upon him, " revealed to any one the
mystery of the armourer's death "i "

No," replied Walter ; " and yet the secret burns upon my
tongue. I long to brand the villain to the public scorn, strip him
of the cloak hypocrisy has cast around him, and the world the
foul deformity it hides. But I have been silent."

Be silent still," said the churchman. " Why I demand this
you are not the judge ; how I shall use it you have yet to learn.
Of what order," he added, carelessly, " was this friar you spoke
of ? "

Of the Mendicants ? "

*' Good ; and now retire ; in the morning my chancellor will
give you an order to admit you to the Lady Mary ; hear her
version of this fearful story : it may perchance present a clue to
guide us through the labyrinth. Go," continued his grace, " and
remember Heaven is not the less prepared to strike, because its
arm is veiled in clouds. Go, and if the maid be really innocent,
go in confidence and hope."

I could almost trust that boy," he murmured to himself, after
Walter had withdrawn ; "the world hath not spoiled him yet —
ambition's fire not quite corrupted his young heart. As he spoke,
how the memories of my youth returned ! Methought I listened
to his dead father's voice — to the companion of my boyhood's years
to him whose merry laugh mocked the aspiring hopes of greatness,
which childish confidence oft pictured forth in friendship's trusting
hour. They are realised," he added, proudly ; " dreams have

become realities ; but am I happier ? I must not ask myself that
question, lest I should find the hill I mounted with such toilsome
steps is ashes — ashes — ashes ! "

With an effort the speaker dismissed from his mind the train of
thought into which he had fallen, and resumed the perusal of his
papers. In a few moments he was again the statesman.

Early on the following morning, as Walter left the palace,' he
Alas accosted by Patch, who for once had doffed his motley suit of
office, and was attired in a dress of black more befitting a reverend
divine than a jester.

Whither goes thou ? " he demanded, as our hero passed the
gate ; " thou hast a face as long as the chamberlain's wand, and as
woe-begone as a rejected suitor's."

It reflects my heart," replied the young man ; " for my errand
is a sad one."

"Take folly with thee, then," said Patch ; "it is the salt which
seasons life — the antidote to melancholy and the spleen. They
are your fools who rail at mirth and cannot see a sermon in a
jest."

Not now," exclaimed the impatient lover ; " I am too sad for
jesting."

I will be dull then, too," continued the intruder ; " why, manit
is my nature. I am like Janus, double-faced — a moral death's
head with a painted mask — folly on one side, wisdom on the other.
There," he added, screaming his features into an expression of
solemnity, to which his laughing, mischief-loving eye gave the
silent lie — " a mourning heir at a miser's funeral could not better
act his part. What, not one smile ! Then thou art sad indeed."

I go," said Walter, " to visit innocence in a dungeon."

"Ah ! then I must go with thee," resumed the persevering jester ;
in such a case a fool will be, in the world's opinion, thy fit companion
; for sober wisdom, boy, will scout thee for it. Visit
innocence in a palace," he continued, " an' thou wilt. Nay, even
in a cottage, without great imprudence, it may be sometimes
risked — upon the sly ; but in a prison ! Pshaw ! had I not been
too long at court to blush, my cheek would crimson for thee."

Thou hast a kind heart," exclaimed the young man, who perfectly
understood the speaker's bitter humour.

Have I ? " said Patch. " Keep the discovery a secret, then, I
pray you."

Why so ? "

The world would only find it out to wound it. Hearts are like
flying fish — the shark and albatross both prey upon them."

Have with thee," said the young man, with a melancholy
smile ; "■ since thou art resolved on such dull company, take it not
amiss if I entreat thy presence no further than "

"Fear not, I have a character to lose," interrupted his companion,

resuming at once his f oi-mer sarcastic tone, " and know the world
too well to let it catch me in an act so foolish as visiting the
unfortunate — a crime were nothing to it. I shall intrude no
further than the gate,"

Walter was struck with the natural delicacy of the speaker, and
the tact with which he understood his wishes. On their way to
the castle he related to him the story of his love — its trials, hopes,
and fears : painted with a lover's Eloquence the grace and virtue of
the Lady Mary, and the knight's heartless cold oppression. On
hearing the relation of the murder of Henry de Corbey, and the
sudden disappearance of the mendicant friar, the jester became
deeply interested, and weighed his words attentively.

You still believe her innocent ? " he demanded.

I could swear it," replied our hero,

So could I."

You ! "

I ! " repeated Patch ; " look hot so surprised, for folly hath a
logic of its own, which, after all, is nearer allied to wisdom than
men think. As thus : sober reason slowly proceeds from the
premise unto the consequence, while folly jumps it — a process far
more expeditious," he added, with a cheerful smile, "and quite as
satisfactory,"

Wolsey hath promised to seek out this man," continued
Walter, " upon whose evidence so much depends,"

He'll keep his word," drily observed the jester "be it for good
or ill."

By this time they had reached the castle, which, for many years,
had been converted into a county and city prison. This time the
governor, who seemed disconcerted at their arrival, was all civility
and smiles ; the sight of the cardinal's seal to the order of admission
had wrought a wondrous change in him.

How shall we describe the interview of the long-separated lovers
its tears and confidences, its hopes and fears 1 The prisoner, who
since the death of her cousin had listened to no friendly voice, had
met no sympathising look, sobbed on the breast of the scarcely less
agitated Walter, as with broken words and sighs she related all the
terrors of that fearful night — his father's cruelty — Henry's devoted
death, and the mysterious conduct of the mendicant friar, in whose
integrity, despite his unaccountable disappearance, she placed firm
faith, declaring her firm conviction that his absence was owing to
the machinations of her enemies, and not to any participation in
their crimes. Her suitor, in his turn, described his reception by
Wolsey, and the interest which the still powerful minister expressed
in her sad fate. Bitterly did he lament the delay occasioned by
the retreat at St, Edmund's shrine, a delay which had given the
ruthless knight time to spread the net in which his victim was so
fearfully entangled.

Whilst the youthful pair are thus occupied in sweet intercourse
of mutual consolation, let us return to the jester, who remained in
the court-yard of the castle, gravely occupied in examining the
curious architecture of the ancient pile, in the contemplation of
which he seemed absorbed, but whose restless, prying eyes, in
reality, noticed every trifling incident that occurred.

Neai-ly an hour had thus passed, when the door of the turret,
which led to the governor's apartment, opened, and the functionary,
whose confusion on their arrival Patch had noticed, appeared,
accompanied by a tall, thin, grey-haired man, whose aquiline nose,
piercing black eyes, and sharp intellectual features, denoted an
Italian rather than Saxon (^-igin. There was a degree of affectation
in the indifference with which they crossed the court, and the
careless adieu of the functionary to his companion at the gate,
which the shrewd observer failed not to note. The likeness to the
physician of Sir John de Corbey, a personage whom Walter, during
their walk, had minutely described, instantly struck him. The
fool Alas not far wrong in his guess.

"You seem interested, sir, in these old walls," said the governor,
with a cringing civility ; " many a curious deed has passed within
them."

Doubtless," said Patch, drily.

Many have died here by the axe and cord," continued the man,
not altogether pleased with the tone of the reply.

"Any by poisoning ? " demanded the jester, fixing his eyes upon
the speaker.

Poi — poisoning ? " repeated the fellow, the blood, despite his
habitude of self-control, rushing into his cheek ; " not — that — I
know of ; how should I ? "

Ah ! I thought you might."

There was a pause ; the governor mentally cursing his folly for
having provoked a conversation upon a subject which circumstances
rendered dangerous and unpleasant. He felt that it was
necessary to say something, for each moment's silence added to
his embarrassment.

You belong to his good grace of York ? " he at last faltered out.

"No."

No ! "

His good grace of York belongs to me," said the jester, with a
gravity which might have deceived keener wits than the dull
gaoler's. " I have dined and supped upon him for these twelve
years past."

"I understand you," replied the fellow, with a broad grin.
Doubtless he is a profitable master ; you turn the penny by him."

The jester relaxed the gravity of his expression, and screwed up
his features with so knowing a look, that the gaoler's grin gradually
expanded itself into a hearty laugh, in which his visitor joined.

From a protuberance about the chest of the rascal's doublet, he
judged that a bag of coin, or a parcel of some kind, had been
hastily thrust there, and he determined in his own peculiar way to
ascertain the fact. Continuing, therefore, to laugh and twist his
face into every possible variety of expression, he gradually
approached the governor, and in the paroxysm of their mirth gave
him a friendly poke, such as one man might familiarly offer to
another in good fellowship, upon the chest, just where the
appearance excited his suspicion. A faint chink followed the
blow. The gaoler's laugh instantly ceased, and he eyed him
suspiciously.

Par Dieu ! " said Patch, wiping his eyes, which overflowed,
but you keep your keys in a curious pocket."

I can't be too careful," replied the man.

Of course not," answered his companion, gravely, fully convinced
in his own mind that the sound proceeded from coin of
some kind.

Would you like to see the dungeons ? " demanded the governor ;
some of them are curious in their architecture, I can show you
places," he added, "which common eyes have seldom gazed upon."

The proposal was assented to, and calling for a torch, the governor
preceded his guest down a low arched passage, leading to the
subterranean dungeons-which had existed from the Saxon times,
and where Canute had doubtless kept his prisoners. They were
excavated in the mound on which the keep stood.

In less than an hour Patch returned whistling, alone ; and on the
following morning a new governor, who had been appointed by
Wolsey, took possession of his office in the castle.

It was a dangerous thing to play at cross purposes with the
jester.

The morning at last arrived on which the anxiously-expected
trial was to take place, and the county hall was crowded with the
rank and beauty of the neighbourhood. The youth of the prisoner,
the historic name she bore, and the many dark rumours which
attached themselves to the fame of her guardian, had contributed
to excite interest and curiosity to the highest pitch. At one end
of the court the three judges were seated ; the presiding one was
the father of the celebrated Sir Thomas More, who succeeded
Wolsey as chancellor of England. At a table beneath their elevated
seat were the advocates and prosecutors in the cause. The Lady
Mary, attended only by her lover an-^ the faithful Steadman, was,
in consideration of her station, accommodated with a chair, and
spared the humiliation of the felon's dock. Her features were pale
but dignified. The friar, upon whose evidence so much depended,
despite the exertions and promise of the cardinal, had not been
found ; and her only hope was that her judges might be induced
to postpone the trial in order to give further time to find him.

It was remarked that, during the proceedings, Sir John de
Corbey never once raised his eyes toAvardshis injured kinswoman ;
whilst Adam, on the contrary, was frequently seen to regard her
with an expression of pity and interest.

As soon as the jury had been sworn, the advocate for the prosecution
rose to address the court. He began by painting the virtues
of the deceased — his noble character and ancient lineage — and the
love which it was well known he bore to the accused ; "a love,"
he added, " which has severed the last branch of a noble tree — a
love which, instead of awakening sympathy, engendered hate — a
love whose bridal couch hath been the grave. This honourable
court," continued the speaker, " can well imagine that Sir John de
Corbey received with pleasure the prospect of a union which
promised to cement the happiness of his son and the honour of his
family. Unfortunately, the wishes, the passions of the prisoner
were opposed to such arrangements ; her affections, I regret to Bas,
have been artfully seduced by one whom her guardian, from a
mistaken charity, had reared in his own household, warmed the
half-frozen viper till it stung him, and who does not hesitate to
appear in this solemn presence — affronting justice by his hardiness,
insulting the childless parent, of whose bereavement he has indirectly
been the cause."

Walter bit his lips till the blood started to hear himself so
characterised, but for the prisoner's sake was silent.

The advocate, after concluding his vituperative charge, was about
to call his witnesses, when the counsel for the Lady Mary arose,
and demanded a postponement of the trial, on the ground of the
absence of a necessary witness — a mendicant friar, who, concealed
within the chamber, witnessed the whole transaction, and whose
evidence, he contended, would not only prove the innocence of the
presumed culprit, but turn the accusation most fearfully on her
accusers.

The judges whispered together, and, after some minutes' consultation,
demanded of the speaker if he had any corroborative
proofs to offer of the existence of such a person and friar.

Steadman was sworn before the court.

I object to thtit man's evidence ! " exclaimed the opposing
advocate ; " I can call witnesses before this honourable court to
prove that for jea,vs he has been known to entertain a deadly
rancour towards Sir John de Corbey; that he has frequently
threatened him with vengeance — predicted dishonour, ruin to his
house — nay, often boasted that he would bring him to a scaffold yet."

Witnesses were called, who, unfortunately, were but too well
able to prove the intemperate threats of the bluff old soldier. It
was decided by the judges that his evidence should not be taken,
and, as no other person had seen the friar, the objection was overruled,
and the trial ordered to proceed.

Lost ! " sighed the unhappy girl, as she sank with her head
upon her lover's shoulder ; " my last hope gone ! "

Steadman, half-mad with passion and indignation, rushed from
the court, where perjury and corruption for a time carried everything
before them. Flying anywhere to avoid the crowd, the
broken-hearted man directed his steps towards the church of the
Dominicans, in which Wolsey held his legatine court, where,
however, he seldom presided in person, leaving that office to his
chancellor and two doctors of divinity' retained for that especial
purpose. As the wool-comber crossed the cloister he beheld to his
astonishment the stately figure of the mendicant hurrying before
him ; for a moment he could scarcely believe his senses, but deemed
it was some vision ; once convinced of the reality', however, he
sprang upon the friar, and seizing him by his robe, exclaimed ;
Friar or devil, I've found you, then, at last."
What means the slave ? " demanded the astonished man.

Slave I I am an Englishman — no slave," replied Steadman ;
"' more, I am a constable, and I seize on you as a witness in the
cause of the heiress of Cranfield, accused of murder. Will you go
with me ? "

No."

"Then," said his captor, most inconveniently tightening his
grasp, " I'll make you."

I'm a priest," exclaimed the friar.

If you were a bishop you should go," coolly answered Steadman,
though I did penance for a month for laying hands upon your
rochet. So come," he added, dragging the friar, with a grasp of
iron, towards the gate. " You may as well come quiet' ; for, by
our bluff king Harry's oath, dead or alive, you follow me."

Madman ! " exclaimed the prisoner ; " loose your hold. What
ho ! Guard ! treason ! treason ! "

In an instant the officers and soldiers who were in attendance on
the vice-legates rushed from the church, for the voice was not
unknown to them. The struggling men were surrounded and
separated.

An attack upon the cardinal ! " exclaimed one of the officers,
who recognised the friar's face — "cut the villain to pieces."

A slight wave of the hand restrained them.

The cardinal ! " repeated Steadman, sinking on his knee.

For a few moments Wolsey regarded the old man with a flushed
brow and angry eye, which gradually, however, gave place to a
kindlier look, when he remembered how he had been mystified.

Knovv-est thou the penalty incurred," he demanded, " for laying
hands upon a prelate ? "

No," replied the prisoner, bluntly ; " but I dare say, death.
You are great and powerful — I poor and honest. I care not for
myself, but for one I love like my own child. They drove me

I m;

from the court," he added, " because, foi-sooth, my tongue had
been sometimes faster than my wits — refused my evidence, as if I
could bring my soul to lie even against my enemy ! Mary says one
word from you will save her. Ah ! I see a gracious smile upon
your lip, which tells or imports she is "

Innocent ! " interrupted Wolsey, kindly. " Away to the courthouse
! I shall be there as soon as you — to do a deed that shall
strike earth's guilty great ones with dismay. Captain," added the
speaker, " I do discharge you of your prisoner. Summon my escort
and my household ; we will but doff this guise, and then set forth
at once."

Steadman was no sooner released than he flew with the rapidity
of a far younger man towards the court-house, from which he had
so lately rushed. How different were his feelings on his return !
He felt that he was the bearer of hope, life, love ; his heart was
full of its intelligence, and every instant seemed an age till he
discharged the burden. During his absence, the work of perjury
and crime had advanced towards its completion ; despite the
prisoner's simple tale, the defence of her advocate, and the
indignant, impassioned appeal of Walter, the jury had pronounced
her guilty, and the presiding judge was about to pronounce
sentence. « »

Death ! " exclaimed the old man, bursting into the court, and
repeating that word of the judge ; " who talks of death, when I
bring life and honour ? He's found — the witness found ! "

Adam laid his hand upon Sir John's arm, who had involuntarily
started from his seat at the intelligence.

A mere subterfuge, my lord," said the advocate, rising ; "they
have no witness."

No witness ! " repeated Steadman ; " you lie. No witness !
Ha ! ha ! ha ! — he will soon be here."

At this moment the clash of arms without announced the arrival
of the cardinal.

No witness ! " he continued, with an hysterical laugh.
« Behold ! "

The great entrance to the court was thrown open, and "Wolsey,
in his robes of state, attended by his officers, entered the court.
All rose to receive him. Walter's heart beat wildly — he remembered
his master's promise.

Be seated, my good lords," exclaimed his eminence to the
judges ; "we are here to perform an act of justice."

The heiress of Cranfield sank upon her knees in gratitude ; she
kncAv that she was saved ; she recognised in the deep-toned voice
of the speaker the witness she had sought — that the mendicant
friar and Wolsey were the same.

CHAPTER VII.

But truth shall yet be heard — ^no human power

Can stifle or corrupt her purposes.

Through superstition's gloom her voice is heard—

It pierces through the veil of barbarous ages,

And injured Virtue walks triumphant forth,

Freed from the taint of calumny and crime. — Creon.

With a precision, every word of which sounded in the ears of

the astounded Sir John de Corbey and his accomplice like a

death-knell, Wolsey related all that had passed in the chamber of

the prisoner on the evening of her cousin's death. Many a bright

eye was gemmed with tears as their fair owners listened to the

story of a boy's devotion and a father's crime. The persecutions

to which the orphan heiress had been subjected were detailed at

length, and the heartless villainy of her false guardian made clear

as day. Not content, it seems, with the accusation to which she

had so nearly fallen a sacrifice, the knight had, through the

ministry of his agent, Adam, attempted to poison his victim even

in the last fearful sanctuary of the laws — her prison. The late

governor of the castle — whom Patch, the jester, had cleverly made

a prisoner, at the very moment when that functionary, under the

pretence of showing him the dungeons, had intended him the

same kind office — was produced in court, and acknowledged that

he had received a certain sum of money to mix a powder, which

the Italian had provided him with, in the Lady Mary's food.

From the promptitude with which he had been secured, both the

poison and the bribe were found upon him. The wretch

confessed to everything, for he knew into whose iron grasp he

had fallen, and that his only hope of mercy was in truth. A yell

of execration, which even the majesty of justice failed to repress,

rose from the auditory, as one by one the crimes of the prosecutor

were laid bare. "Warm, sympathising friends thronged round the

agitated and still weeping prisoner, eager to atone by present

kindness the injustice of their past suspicion. But the interest

and excitement of the scene were still further increased when, on

a signal from the cardinal, four officers appeared in court bearing a

black chest, which they deposited on the table before the judges,

who commanded it to be opened. Expectation was raised to its

utmost pitch as the usher of the court raised the lid and disclosed

a human skeleton ; the girdle of iron and the collar round the

neck, together with staples which had riveted them to the wall,

still remaining on the mouldering bones. At the same instant

several of the halberdiers secured the persons of the knight and

Adam. The brow of Sir John became suddenly flushed, and he

was observed to stagger at the sight. Even the usually pale face of

the leech became paler as he gazed on the fearful evidence of a

crime which he deemed long since buried in oblivion.

On perceiving that his eminence was about to speak, there was a
breathless silence in the court. Men felt that a strange revelation
was taking place — one of those extraordinary developments in
which unerring Providence vindicates the justice of its ways toman
— hunts guilt from out the cunning labyrinth where it hides,
demolishes its subtle guard, its covered trenches, its well planned
citadel, and from the fragments of its vain defences constructs the
proofs which send it to the scaffold.

Knowest thou," he demanded, fixing his cold glance upon the
murderer, " knowest thou these bones ? "

Shame and desperation gave to the guilty man a courage to
which the terror of his glance and quivering lip gave the silent lie.
With an effort worthy of a better cause he firmly answered in the
negative.

Nor these fetters .' " continued his interrogator, pointing to the
manacles remaining on the skeleton.

No."

"This may perhaps refresh your memory, sir knight," said
Wolsey, at the same time throwing upon the table the scabbard
which Walter had found in the recess. It bears a name should
wake an echo in thy conscience, unless, like them, it is of iron —
Cuthbert, the armourer's."

My dream, my dream comes true at last I " shrieked the
maniac mother of the victim, who, with the cunning peculiar to
insanity, remembering her former forcible expulsion from the
church, had remained a quiet spectator of the trial. " Heaven
hath heard the widow's prayer, and will avenge her wrongs ! "

There is a majesty in sorrow which even the vulgar must
respect. The people made way for the wretched Maud, who
advanced from the crowd of spectators into the body of the court.
Approaching the table where the ghastly remains of her son were
placed, she raised the crumbling skeleton in her arms, and
imprinted a maternal kiss upon the fleshless brow. The skull of
the murdered youth reclined upon her bosom, upon the pillow
where in smiling infancy it so oft had lain, and whence its
innocent lips had drawn the first pure stream of life. It was an
appalling picture to behold the living and the dead locked in that
close embrace. Even the judges, accustomed from their painful
office to scenes of misery, were moved to pity, and all but the
assassins wept.

Curse him ! " she exclaimed, in a voice broken by convulsive
sobs, and raising at the same time her withered hand to heaven ;
'* curse him, thou righteous Judge ! Bare Thy red arm in justice
forth, and launch the eternal bolt within his heart ! Dry the
springs of penitence within him, that no absolving tears gush forth
to cleanse it of its foulness ! Strike him with unbelief ! harden
him to his perdition ! Living, let fiends possess his impious soul,

and mocking devils cibber at his prayers ! Withhold the boon of
madness from him ! Sleep fly his burning eyelids as from a
couch accursed ! Let him loathe life, yet shrink with childhood's
terror at death's coming shadow ! Despair and infamy go with
him to his dungeon, and mock him on the scaffold ! I am heard ! "
she added, with a laugh whose frantic mirth made the stoutest
present shoulder. "John de Corbey, the widow and the mother's
curse is writ against thee in tho Book of God — ha ! ha ! ha ! My
boy and I will sit in heaven together and laugh at thy eternal
agony ; laugh as thy black soul writhes h\ its lake of fire I "

Peace, woman ! " said the presiding judge, after a silence
which lasted several minutes, and which even he almost feared to
break, so intense was the horror and excitement created by her
passionate imprecations. " Even the guilty have feelings to be
respected ; the majesty of justice must not be outraged by a scene
like this. Remove her from the court." he added, turning to the
ushers who were standing behind the sheriff ; "but do it with all
gentleness."

Two of the officers approached to obey the order ; but Maud,
clasping the remains of her son still closer to her heart as for
protection, fixed on them a look so wild that even they hesitated
to approach her.

Withered be the hand that touches me ! " she cried ; " accursed
of God and man ! Would you separate the mother from her child
from her long-hidden treasure ? I'll be calm," she added ;
silent as the voice which made life's only music to my Widowed
heart ; but I must remain : I shall go mad else — mad with man's
injustice — mad with my griefs and wrongs. There — the dead and
I Avill wait in silence and in patience — wait for earth's justice on
our woes together."

With as much tenderness as a young mother could ha^'e shown I
her first-born child, the maniac placed her frightful burden upon
the ground, and seated herself beside it. Removing the long
black wimple from her head, she covered the remains with it as
With a funeral pall. The action permitted her long white hair to
fall dishevelled, like a silver veil, upon her shoulders. Judges
and spectators alike Avere deeply moved ; the former motioned
to the officers to permit her to remain. Indeed it would have
been difficult, in all that vast assembly, to have found a heart
sufficiently hard, or an arm strong enough, to remove her.

As the verdict against the heiress of Stantield had not been
recorded, no further process Alas necessary than that the jury, on
the recommendation of the judges, should reconsider their
judgment, Which for form's sake they did, and unanimously and
instantly pronounced her Not Guilty. The joy of the assembly
Avould have been far more boisterously expressed, had not the
strange emotions they had been subjected to damped their ardour.

i.

They respected also the presence of the dead, and the desolate
mother who watched beside it. The fervent pressure of her
lover's hand was more grateful to the rescued victim than a
hundred gratulations.

Come," said Wolsey, in a kind and serious voice, taking herby
the hand, " this scene fits not a woman's presence ; for the
present, the convent's walls will be your best retreat — at least
till you depart for London'"

For London ! " answered the Lady Mary, with surprise ; " and
why not, my lord, for Cranfield ? "

For London," he repeated, gravely ; " our gracious master
remembers the debt of gratitude due to your ancient house, and
the good queen intends to guard you near her person till a fitting
marriage relieve her of your care."

The heiress Sighed. The words " a fitting marriage" seemed a
fresh barrier to her happiness. The churchman smiled, for he
read the maiden's thought, and whispered a word, as he glanced
at "Walter, which brought the warm blood once more to her pale
cheek, and reassured her heart. Both were deceived ; trials
which neither the cardinal nor the heiress dreamt of were in store
for both.

Farewell, my lords," said Wolsey, addressing the judges,
who, with all present, rose on his departure. " I have performed
my duty ; you," he added, pointing to Sir John de Corbey and
his accomplice, " doubtless will do yours. Let the trial commence
at once, lest justice should accuse us of delay."

Save me," whispered the knight to the leech, who watched the
departure of the cardinal as coolly as if he were a mere spectator
in the court, and not a criminal arraigned upon a charge touching
his life ; " is there no way to snatch me from dishonour and the
grave ? "

None," laconically answered Adam, in the same under-tone ;
the butcher's cur hath got firm hold."

I would live," continued the wretched man — " live for
repentance, for atonement."

Pshaw 1 "

Live," he iterated, " even iii a cloister or a dungeon."

What difference," demanded the Italian, " between them and
the grave ? I blush to call thee pupil. Dismiss these idle terrors
from thy mind — feeble humanity's first and last weakness — and
welcome, like me, thy long, eternal sleep."

About an hour after the departure of the cardinal the trial of
Sir John de Corbey and his accomplice commenced. The first
witness who appeared against them was Father Celestine, whom
Walter, to his surprise, afterwards found had all the while
travelled in Wolsey 's train from London ; but so secretly had his
eminence taken his precautions, and such were the means at his

VOL. II. I 2

command, that to all but himself his presence had been
unsuspected.

The good priest's deposition proved the arrival of the armourer
in company with the prisoner on the night of his disappearance at
the old mansion on the bank of the Thames ; also, the sudden
death of two of the servants the ensuing morning — men who were
known to have been deep in the confidence of their master, and
who had been present during the fatal interview in the chamber
of the tower : which chamber, by Sir John's order, had been
afterwards closed, and the household for years carefully kept from
all admission to it. He afterwards related the arrival of the
fugitive, and the circumstances which led to the discovery of the
fatal recess during his concealment from Adam and his pursuers.

As soon as his evidence was completed, the leech, who all the
while had eyed him with the glance of a basilisk, wrote a few
hasty words upon a slip of paper, and gave it to one of the
servants who had attended him and the knight to court. The
fellow instantly disappeared with it. The colour of the witness
slightly changed ; he guessed the purport of the writing : he
knew the thunderbolt was launched, but was prepared to meet it.

If the spectators had been appalled at the simple relation of the
priest, their indignation was roused to the highest pitch by the
eloquent description of Walter, who described with the energetic
eloquence of youth the horrors of the victim's death — his distorted
limbs, dislocated by his fearful despairing struggles in the living
tomb to which his merciless destroyers had consigned him. A
thrill of pity and terror ran through the veins of all ; men listened
with a silent fascination to the tale which charmed their senses
and caused their blood to creep like the spell of the nightmare.
The only sounds to be heard were the stifled convulsive sobs of
the heart-broken widow of the victim.

Merciless, merciless villains ! " she exclaimed, " was it for this
I bore him ? — did Heaven permit me to become a parent only to
lose him thus ? Cuthbert, my boy, my martyred child ! " she
added, apostrophising the sad remains beside her, " would that the
life-blood of thy mother could have saved thee from these
butchers ! "

Thrice did Sir John, when called on by the judges for his
defence, rise and essay to speak. On every face he read his
condemnation ; every eye turned from his gaze with loathing and
abhorrence. Confusion, and not remorse, overwhelmed him. The
last time he sank upon his seat in sullen, hopeless despair. What
could he urge against a tale so clear ? — what j^lea advance to touch
the heart of Justice 'i — what subtle lie, Avhat plausible excuse avail
him against the mute pleading of that lonely woman ? Mourning
like Eve over her murdered child, her very presence was his
condemnation.

The Heaven he so long had braved with impunity confounded
him at last.

At this moment the domestic whom Adam had despatched
returned, and placed a sealed packet in the leech's hand, who
hastily breaking the envelope, drew from it the book which
Luther had written in reply to Heiiry's defence of the seven
sacraments of the Church, and which our readers may remember
he had found in the chamber of Father Celestine on the night of
his visit to the house in London.

The jury, directly after the summing of the judges, returned a
verdict of guilty against both.

When asked why sentence of death should not be pronounced,
Adam alone replied : his voice was as low and musical as ever,
and it was only from the bitter sarcasm which occasionally broke
forth that men could perceive his heart of stone was moved.

"Were the question you have asked, my lords," he began,
"other than one of those bitter mockeries in which humanity
delights, I might, perhaps, dispute the right to punish one murder
by another — the right for dust to judge its fellow dust — to wrest
the high prerogative of Deity, by annihilating life, as if its hands
had grown too feeble to uphold the balance. Such a plea,
however, would serve me little here — it would be urged ages too
soon. But a time will come when it must be heard ; when
mankind, starting like sleepers from a dream, will ask of earth's
pale rulers and their laws, questions which kings and priests will
find it hard to answer. Not yet," he added, "not yet — not
yet ! "

Heretic ! " exclaimed the presiding judge, in a tone of
indignation.

Your children's children," said Adam, with a smile, " perchance
may call me by another name."

And that is "

Philosopher."

Philosopher ! " iterated the legis, with a look of scorn —
what school ? "

"Of one which yet hath known few pupils and still less
admirers," replied the leech, unmoved by the expression of
contempt — " of one whose lessons, like the lines traced by the
eternal wave upon the rock, imprinted once, become indelible ;
men even now begin to mark its letters, and soon will learn to
read them."

Perish such doctrines ! " said another of the judges ; " they
pervert mankind."

Thought cannot perish," mildly answered the Italian. " You
may destroy the temple in your blind madness,"1tie added, at the
same time slightly touching his brow ; " but the god defies your
feeble malice ; a truth once uttered is immortal, and cannot be

destroyed ; like an event, it slumbers cradled on the wing of time,
sure to arrive at last,"

Cursed follower of Luther ! "

Of Luther ! " interrupted Adam ; " of him who broke one
chain to forge mankind another — of the beer-swilling German,
whose dull eyes mistook truth's shadow for its substance ? No ;
he dreams as little of my school as thou dost. Of Luther ! " he
repeated. " To prove that our affinities approach no nearer than
our common dust, I'll yield another victim to the list of those who
suffer through his errors."

The book, the mere possession of which was looked upon by
the vindictive Henry and his ministers as a species of treason and
sacrilege, was handed by the prisoner to one of the ushers, who
gave it to the judge. The man of law piously crossed himself ashe
read the title. Unfortunately, it contained within its leaves
the letter which the brother of the unfortunate Celestine had
written to him from Germany when he forwarded the fatal
volume, and the poor priest was instantly arrested. He submitted
with a sigh of resignation, for he knew that his doom was fixed,
and sought not by useless struggles to avert it.

Monster ! " said "Walter to the Italian ; " crimes enough
hadst thou upon thy soul already ! "

After a short consultation amongst the judges, the presiding one
pronounced the sentence on the prisoners. Sir John de Corbej', inconsideration
of his rank, was doomed to perish by the axe ;
but for the heretic, as well as murderer, Adam, a more fearful
punishment was assigned — the stake ; his body to be consumed to
ashes, and those ashes given to the winds. The old man heard the
sentence with a bitter smile.

Father Celestine was to be removed to London, to answer in the
court established by Archbishop Warham for the punishment of
heresy, for his imputed crime.

Despite his entreaties and the influence of Wolsey's name, which
"Walter scrupled not to use, he was refused permission even to
shake his old friend by the hand, or whisper one word of consolation.
In the impetuous indignation of his heart he would yet
further have committed himself, had not his friend the jester, who
had been an interested spectator of the trial, succeeded in dragging
him away.

By my faith," said Patch, as soon as they had cleared the courthouse,
and were alone upon the plain which surrounds the castle,
'* but my search is ended. I have for a long time been looking fora
successor to my office, and at last have found one. Come with
me," he continued, " that With all due ceremony and celerity I
may resign the ensigns of my authority in your favour."

Spare me ! " said the young man, painfully agitated ; *' I pray
you, spare me ! The good priest was the friend of my otherwise

unfriended youth — my tutor — guide — my second father — and forme
he dies ! Had I not sought the shelter of his quiet home, had
not his fears for me disarmed all prudence, yon fiend's relentless
malice had been baulked."

By this time the speakers had reached the second moat, some
traces of which, twenty years since, were plainly visible, but they
have since been filled up and built over ; at the period of which
we write it was a deep dry ditch, with steep banks on either side.
They both naturally paused upon the brink.

I think," said the jester, " that, as the world wags, thou hast
some liking for me — a sort of kind caprice — something like the
love, born half of pity, half endurance."

Have I not proved thy worth ? " demanded his companion,
grasping him warmly by the hand. " Be more just to thyself, and
call the feeling by its true name — friendship."

Friendship be it then," said Patch : " the name will serve as
well as any other. Supposing, now, that I should fall in this same
moat before us, what would this friendship prompt thee to do ? "

"Why, help thee out again," answered Walter, with a faint
smile.

How ? " demanded the querist ; " by jumping in thyself, or
remaining on the bank, whence thou couldst reach a helping hand
to drag me safe again ? "

*' Certes, by remaining on the bank," replied the young man,
who did not yet perceive the drift of the jester's questions, which
our readers, doubtless, have already divined.

Good," said Patch ; " time will bring something more than a
beard upon thy chin. Celestine is in the ditch, where but for me
thou wouldst have jumped beside him, instead of standing on the
bank to aid him. There's nothing," he added, " so useful as an
illustration to a truth ; 'tis like a picture in a primer — it shows the
child its lesson."

Kindly and wisely hast thou shown me mine," exclaimed his
hearer, who saw at once, not only the necessity, but the wisdom, of
his friend's advice, so characteristically conveyed. " In my folly,
I would neglect the only means to save him. I must to Wolsey ;
one word from him "

That v/ord will never be spoken," interrupted the jester.
Alas ! poor dreamer, how little dost thou know the world ! To
hear thee speak, one would imagine it a simple path — straight as
integrity, and not a winding maze, which none may traverse
without its subtle clue. Had the good priest," he added, " but
simply broke his vows, our master might have cast the shadow of
the Roman purple o'er him — winked at treason — shut his eyes at
murder — turned a deaf ear to any accusation, save that which
touches Henry's vanity. Celestine hath wounded that, and Mercy's
voice is dumb."

*' Surely his grace's influence with the king," urged "Walter*
unwilling to abandon his last hope.

Whew ! " whistled Patch. " I thought the child could read,
and find it only knows its letters. Didst ever ask thyself this
simple question : Why the child loves its paper kite — the air-buoyed
toy, whose flight resembles so well ambition's short career ?"

Even for its buoyant qualities," replied his companion.

Because he Holds the stringer'' continued the speaker, with a
glance of deep meaning, "and knows he can recall it at his
pleasure."

What if the string should break ? "

"The kite falls still the same," drily answered the jester.

This familiar illustration at once revealed to the young man the
relative positions of the minister and his master ; the former was
all-powerful alone so long as his views crossed not Henry's inclinations,
whose pride was flattered by the homage paid his
servant, and who saw in him, as in a glass, his own reflected
greatness. When he considered the character of the monarch, and
the crime of Celestine, he felt hopeless alike of Wolsey's mediation
or the sovereign's mercy.

It must be remembered that, during the lifetime of Arthur
Prince of Wales, Henry VII., according to some historians, designed
his second son for the archbishopric of Canterbury, and educated
him accordingly. His preceptor Skelton sought to make him
rather a scholar than an enlightened statesman. He tutored him
in the dry philosophy of the schools, especially the Aristotelian,
then most in credit with the learned. To theological studies the
royal pupil, in early life, devoted himself with ardour and success ;
but their good effect on the character of the future king may be
questioned. Divinity, as it was at that period taught in the
schools, tended little to enlarge the views or give soundness to the
opinions of its students ; and hence, probably, the violent prejudices
of Henry — his conceit and intemperance in polemical
discussions — his vacillations on important points, and his obstinacy
in those of less moment. He was never known to forgive any
man who either differed in opinion or had once offended him; and
when, at a more advanced period of the Reformation, Luther sought,
by the most abject flattery, to conciliate the royal reformer, he
found his advances treated with disdain.

It was, hopeless, therefore, to expect that any who knew the
monarch, or valued his favour, would venture to intercede for one
who had so deeply offended him where he was most sensitive.

My hope ends here ! " exclaimed Walter, sadly, as he pondered
these things in his mind. " Where shall I look for aid — where
trust ? "

Trust much to thyself," said Patch, " and something, perhaps,
to me. Folly succeeds where wit will often fail."

Folly ! " repeated the young man, earnestly. " By my faith,
thou hast mistaken thine office ; thou wert born to be a statesman,
not a jester."

Are they, then, so much unlike ? " demanded his companion.
For mj poor part, I see this difference in them — the jester's office
is a merry, whilst the statesman's is a sad one ; and when I think
on't, I prefer my own — kings smile at mine, while nations weep
at his."

There was a touch of sadness in the motley-wearer's tone which
showed that Walter was in the right. The jester had, indeed,
mistaken his calling, or perchance the world had done so for him.

It was finally arranged that our hero should take no step in the
matter without the counsel of his friend, whose shrewdness equalled
his devotion. There were but few men in the world before whom
Patch condescended to unmask, and when he did so, his confidence
was complete. Ardently did the youth desire his return to London,
where alone his efforts could be of use. Gratitude, tp his uncorrupted
heart, was a sacred debt ; and, like an honest mind, he
felt impatient till he had discharged it.

On parting with Patch, the impatient secretary hastened to the
convent to which the heiress of Cranfield had been conveyed, on
her liberation from prison, by order of the cardinal. We trust that
but few of our readers are too old or too hackneyed in the mysteries
of the heart not to feel the joy of such a meeting — its smiles and
tears — its hopes renewed — its quiet, deep content, more eloquent
in silence than in words. Those who have seen the being in whom
their heart hath centred restored to them at life's last gasp — the
shipwrecked mariner who, with but one plank between him and
destruction, when the dark waters roared around him, and his
reeling brain was drunk with terror, caught the rope cast by some
friendly hand to save him — can well imagine the change the lovers
felt from dark despair to hope's returning dawn. Even the veiled
sister who, in accordance with conventual rule, was present at the
interview, let fall a tear in witness of her sympathy. Though
divorced from earth, and dead to human passion, the poor nun
was not insensible to human joy. Perhaps she remembered, too,
the time when such feelings and such hopes were not quite a
stranger to her breast.

Farewell ! " exclaimed Walter reluctantly. " You will soon
change this calm retreat for the allurements of a court. Do not
forget me then ! Why," he added, " why., as I not born a prince,
or you a beggar ? Why hath fate placed this cruel distance
'twixt us ? "

Unkind one," said the orphan, with a smile, " why see a
distance which my eyes regard not ? "

With this gentle reproof the Lady Mary went to the retirement
of her cell, there to give thanks to Heaven for her preservation

from her guardian's tyranny, and offer prayers for the repose of
the generous, gallant Henry de Morley's soul ; Walter to his attendance
upon his patron, Wolsey.

Our hero's first act, on his arrival at the palace of the Duke of
Norfolk, was to throw himself at the feet of the cardinal, and
thank him for his generous protection of the orphan heiress — a
protection which our readers may remember was not extended
without some danger to himself.

During the stay at Bury St. Edmund's, and his eminence's
supposed retreat at the martyr's shrine, Patch alone suspected his
absence : he knew his master's humour. Hence the jester's
positive assurance that the mendicant friar would be found upon
the trial when Walter informed him of Wolsey 's promise, 'Tis
strange how well he knew the churchman.

Rise," said his eminence, graciously extending his hand to the
kneeling youth ; " I have but performed my duty ; although,
perchance," he added, with a complacent smile, at the recollection
of the coolness and courage he had shown, "it was somewhat
boldly done."

Say nobly, my good lord ! " exclaimed the young man ; " let
not the tongue whose praise is fame to all beside be unjust to
yourself alone."

Hast learned to flatter ? " demanded Wolsey. " Thou wilt
thrive at court, where a smooth tongue maketh v/ay better than a
sharp wit. Tell me," he added, " what followed after I left the
court ? "

The assassins were condemned."

Of course," said Wolsey, coolly ; " did they think Justice was
lame as well as blind, and that her silent step would never overtake
them ? That widowed mother's curse," he added, " must haunt
them to the scaffold — ring in their ears even at the death stroke ;
mine echo with it still. Proceed."

Encouraged by the familiar tone of the speaker, Walter related
the last triumphant act of the Italian's malice, and Father Celestina's
arrest. His hearer's brow darkened as he proceeded.

Madman ! " muttered his eminence to himself, " to mix with
matters of such fearful moment ! Better to have sat on the
volcano's brow than brave the wrath of Henry ! But speak of him
no more ; his fate is sealed beyond all human aid — all human
hope."

Alas, my lord ! " said Walter, mournfully, " he is my friend —
the protector of my youth. Can I be silent, and his dear life in
danger ? Grant me the means to save him."

"Impossible!" said Wolsey, coldly; "I can do all but step
between the lion and his prey. Walter," he added, kindly, seeing
that the young man turned from him vy-ith a sad, despairing look,
I would do much for thee. Men call me heartless where I am

only powerless. Meddle not thou in this high matter ; it would
but bring destruction on thy head — not save thy friend one pang.
For thy dead father's sake, I fain would guide thy sea-tossed bark
to shore — not see it wrecked upon a rock like this."

With these words the speaker retired to his private chamber,
where, without special invitation, none might presume to follow
him.

Patch was right," thought the yottng man to himself ; " the
fool hath judged the world more wisely than the scholar. I must
rely upon myself to save him."

The three days allotted between the sentence and the execution
of Sir John de Corbey had at last expired. The scaffold for the
knight was erected close to the keep of Norwich Castle — the stake
for his accomplice between the inner and the outward moats.
Attracted by the fearful spectacle, the city at an early hour poured
forth its population. Gentry and citizens alike were there, the
unwashed artisan, the hooded friar, the prowling mendicant, and
lively soldier, all drawn together by the excitement of the scene.
To the honour of the sex, but few of the wives and daughters of
the spectators were present, and those only of the lowest grass.

In consideration of the rank of the principal culprit, both he and
his minister were confined in a strong chamber in Bigod's tower,
less dreary than the gloomy cells where prisoners were generally
kept. The rudely sculptured crucifix and massive chain sealed in
the wall marked the past and present use to which it had been and
was applied — first a chapel, now a prison. The physiognomy of
the captives presented a singular picture of the two extremes of
human passion, — its tempest and its calm. Sir John, agonised
with shame at the approach of an ignominious death, his heart
seared'by disappointed ambition, raged in his wild despair like
some fierce tiger caught in the hunter's snare ; whilst the philosophic
Adam, on the contrary, was as unmoved at the prospect of
his fearful death as the Indian fanatic whose own hand lights the
pile which wafts him to the stars. The knight, faithful to the
infidelity which he doubted, but professed, had obstinately refused
all religious aid, and driven its horror-stricken minister from his
dungeon by his imprecations and his blasphemies. Adam, on the
contrary, had contented himself by quietly declining it.

I will not die ! " exclaimed the frantic noble, pacing the narrow
limits of his cell ; " I will not meet the gaze of the vile mob, or
hear their insulting yell. If the fable which gulls mankind be
true — if there be a devil — I call on him to save me. I dare not
die," he added, with increased terror ; " life in a dungeon, where
the foul toad or knotted snake engenders — anything rather than
annihilation."

His companion listened to him with a complacent smile.
"Adam," continued the guilty wretch, " recall the priest. What

if his tale be true ? What if there be a God — just and terrible, the
avenger of blood, the judge stern and implacable, the reader of all
hearts ? Call him again — 'tis not too late, perchance, for penitence ;
for, oh ! I fear there is a state worse than annihilation."

There is," said Adam, coldly.

You tell me so ! You, who so oft have mocked at "

*' Priestcraft," interrupted the Italian, " not at Deity. Fool ! the
flower, the tender blade of grass thy impious foot so oft hath ,
crushed proclaim the holy truth. There is a God — the judge and
the avenger. Passion's clouds may veil Him from our gaze, the
mists of sophistry obscure the eye of reason, but His all-glorious
presence is not less reflected back from nature as a mirror."

Call back the priest ! " shrieked his astonished master to the
leech, in a voice of frenzy ; " 'tis not too late to pray — to make
atonement. Oh ! for a year, a month, a week — one little week of
life — for penitence and prayer ! "

Too late ! " exclaimed Adam, pointing to the door of the cell ;
when next it opens, the executioner will withdraw the bolt ; the
ho\ir for prayer or penitence is past."

Then I am lost."

"Here and hereafter lost," solemnly repeated his fellow-prisoner.


"You tell me so," said the unhappy man, glaring on him with
the mingled rage of insanity and despair ; " you, who have been
my minister in crime ! — you, who played with human life as with
a childish toy ! — you, who more than once have steeled my heart
and urged me to perdition ! "

Ay," said Adam, " I have lured thee to destruction's brink, and
toyed to see thee damning thyself with crime."

For what ? " demanded the knight, in a voice of surprise.

For vengeance."

What cause ? "

What cause ? " iterated the wily Italian, drawing up his figure
to its full height, and regarding his master with a look of
withering hate ; " what cause ? Hast thou forgot the maid whose
home was by old Arno's placed shores — my affianced bride ?
Pure as the first thought of a young angel's heart, I left her to
prepare our future home of love ; returning, found her all thy
degrading lust and brutal violence could make her. From that
hour I cast ofl: human ties and bound myself to vengeance. I
have achieved it. Earth," he added, slowly, " and I are quits."

My sin — my sin hath found me ! " murmured Sir John, in a
hopeless tone ; the leech's impassioned words recalling to his
memory the first deed of blood and violence with which he had
stained his soul.

Hope not for pardon ; dream not of it," continued Adam ;
thy victim's form will glide between thee and the mercy-seat —

her plea for justice deaden the frantic cry of thy despair. The
avenging Judge holds forth the balance in His red right hand ; it
sinks — it falls — the measure of thy crime is full. Rejoicing fiends
already circle round thee, waiting the headsman's stroke to seize
their prey ! "

Mercy ! " said the assassin, falling on his knees, overcome with
terror ; " mercy ! mercy ! "

Mercy ! " repeated the Italian ; " think on thy crimes."

I do repent them."

Thy kinsman's blood," he continued.

May be forgiven."

The armourer's living death — his widowed mother's curse,"

Heaven is merciful."

Thy son — thy murdered son," added his tormentor, in the tone
of an exulting fiend.

Shall be avenged ! " shrieked the frantic knight, starting to his
feet, and seizing the leech by the neck with a grasp of iron. " Thou
croaking raven, I will stop thy cry ! Triumphant devil, I'll disappoint
thee yet ! Thou shalt not drive hope's pitying angel from
my side ! Be this," he added, as he dashed his victim with a
giant's strength against the wall of the prison, " my first atonement
! Ah," he continued, as the convulsed features, bursting
eye-balls, and blood-stained foam which bubbled from the Italian's
lips, proclaimed the struggle nearly over, " thou art human ! Ha !
ha ! ha ! I shall escape thee yet ! Writhe on, serpent, writhe on ;
thy sting is powerless now ! "

With these words he gradually relaxed his grasp, and the corpse
of the once-gifted Adam fell at his feet. In the triumph of his
mad revenge, the wretched man little thought that he had but
fulfilled the intentions of the dead man, who had purposely provoked
him to the deed, in order to escape the stake and executioner.

His prediction to the knight proved true. The first who unbarred
the cell, in which the fearful scene we have described took place,
was the executioner.

CHAPTER VIII.

Death, is indeed most terrible ; e'en when it cornea
Unto the sinless couch, and weeping friends
"Whisper religion's last consoling prayer.
But on the scaffold, amid the rabble's curse,
When conscience echoes back the accusing cry,
It comes with tenfold terror. — Ceeok.

In the foremost rank of spectators nearest the fatal scaffold were
our old friend Steadman and his maniac sister Maud. ' Vainly had
the honest woolcomber, together with Walter and many of her
friends, tried to dissuade her from the fearful spectacle. To all

entreaties she opposed but one reply', " That justice would be
defeated, and the murderer of her boy, on account of his vast
wealth and ancient name, be permitted to escape the punishment
due to his crimes."

I will be present ! " she exclaimed ; " I will behold the death-pang
of the tiger who hath robbed me of my child, and curse him
as he dies. I know — I know," she muttered sullenly, " you would
break the snare, and set the monster free — free him for gold — for
his accursed gold — as if this earth coined in one yellow heap
should buy my poor son's blood — no — no ! "

One — two — three ! " she cried with frantic delight, as she
counted the strokes of the great bell of the cathedral, which
announced the hour appointed for the consummation of the last
solemn act of justice — "he comes! — ha! ha! ha! — he comes;
You will not let them disappoint me," she added, turning to the
people ; " you will not let them save him. If they attempt it,
pluck him from the scaffold ; tear him limb from limb ; show him
the poor man's blood is not to be purchased by the rich man's
coin,"

Shame ! " exclaimed her brother, angrily ; " as thou art a
Christian woman, peace. Heed her not, friends," he continued,
turning to the mob — " she is mad ; she is the mother of the

murdered boy, whom Sir John "

Buried alive ! " shrieked Maud — " consigned in the full bloom
of health, while the young blood ran freely in his veins, giving
fresh impulse to his generous heart, to a living tomb, to gnaw his
flesh with hunger — tear his poor veins to quench his burning
thirst — to madness — frenzy — to such dark despair that death
became a mercy. "Who that hath a mother," she continued,
looking wildly round, " will dare dispute my right to curse him ? "
The great gates of the castle were thrown open, and the
procession appeared at last before the impatient multitude. First
came the sheriffs in their robes, with their wands of office ; they
were followed by some half dozen soldiers of the city guard, who
carried their long partisans upon their shoulders. The next was
the executioner, a tall, brawny, muscular man, whose features were
rigid with the hard lines of iron resolution — coldly rigid, as if the
repeated horrors he had witnessed had had the same effect upon
them as Medusa's head — transformed them into stone. In his
right hand he bore the axe, with its recently sharpened glittering
edge turned towards the prisoner. The fellow, for the greater ease
in the performance of his disgusting office, was naked to the
waist ; there was nothing to impede the action of his strong arms,
the corded sinews of which were as visible to the spectators as the
stems of the withered leafless ivy are, left clinging round the
branches of some blasted oak,

A thrill of horror ran through the crowd at the sight of the law's

last terrible avenger, and a stifled murmur of execration followed
his appearance.

On the appearance of Sir John de Corbey, who was led, or
rather half-dragged, between two of the headsman's assistants, the
indignant populace broke out into a loud triumphant yell, for the
haughty knight had never been a favourite amongst them, and the
nature of his crime was such as steeled all hearts against him.
From his torn doublet and flushed features, it was evident his
conductors had had a desperate struggle before they had pinioned
him ; nor will it be wondered at when it is remembered that
when they entered his cell they found him almost mad, gloating
over the dead body of his victim and accomplice, Adam.

The sheriffs, who were responsible for the conducting of the
execution, trembled at the effect which the expression of popular
opinion might have upon the prisoner. To their astonishment,
however, instead of increasing his excitement, it rendered him
quite calm — the noble survived the man in him. With a violent
effort at self-control, he repressed his agitation, and walked quietly
to the block, where the principal executioner was already occupied
in arranging cords to drag him down in the event of his resisting.

Spare thy trouble, fellow," he said ; " the madness of the houris
past. I might contend with death, but not with thee. Are
there any," he added, " who for the love of the ancient house of
Corbey will do a dying man a last poor favour .? "

One of the soldiers who followed the sheriffs advanced towards
him : he had served him in the wars.

Thanks, good fellow," said the knight. " Remove my doublet,
and place the bandage so around my eyes as to confine my hair ;
then lead me to the block. I can endure yon wretch's axe, but
not his hand."

The two functionaries motioned to the soldier to comply" with
the prisoner's request, for they were anxious to end the scene.
Once, and once only, the unhappy man was observed to tremble
and his cheek turn pale. It was when the voice of the maniac
Maud fell upon his ear, as they were blindfolding him, before
leading him to the block.

There is a God," she cried ; " monster, thou feel'st Him now.
His hand hath struck thee — die, like the ban wolf, howling,
unpitied — scorned and despised of earth — hopeless of heaven ! —
die ! " she shrieked, with frantic exultation, as the executioner
swung the glittering axe in a semicircle round his head to give
greater impetus to the blow, "accursed of God and man —
despairing die ! "

The axe fell, and the soul of Sir John de Corbey, ere the echo
of the blow had fade I on the ears of the terror-stricken spectators,
stood before the tribunal of the Most High. Man's judgment may
not pursue it further.

It is accomplished," said the widow, all passion and excitement
suddenly leaving her ; " my boy's blood hath not fallen to
earth unavenged. Lead me home," she added, turning to her
brother, and half-sinking into his arms — " lead me home, for every
minute of my life is numbered."

Tho ]xcvii proved right in both his predictions — her senses were
restored and she was dying. ,

Maud ! " exclaimed her brother,' the tears streaming down his
weather-beaten cheeks, " thou art dying. Go not to the grave
With curses on thy lips. Remember His words, who preaches
pardon, that we may be pardoned. As thou dost hope to meet thy.
boy in heaven, recall thy maledictions on the dead."

The expiring woman opened her half-closed eyes, and cast a
look of hatred towards the scaffold and its still palpitating victim
a look such as the wounded panthers might regard the
destroyer of her young with. It was the last she ever gave on
earth ; the sorrows and triumph of the heart-broken mother of the
armourer in this world were over. The sympathising crowd
slowly divided for Steadman and his friends, as they bore the
bodes of his sister from the scene.

Walter was joined by Wolsey in the commission to the sheriffs,
authorising them to take possession of the property of Sir John de
Corbey, now confiscated to the king and seized on for his use.
Patch, whose , keen restless disposition rendered him unhappy
unless when occupied, thought proper to accompany him ; for, ashe
judiciously remarked, there were occasions on which two heads
had the advantage over one, and this promised to be one of them.
While the officials were occupied in taking an inventory of the
plate and furniture, the jester demanded to be shown to the
apartment of Adam.

What think'st to find there ? " demanded his companion.

The key to a riddle which hath puzzled me," replied Patch,
the leech's character. For a fool, I act on philosophic principles.
Naturalists tell us, if we would gain a knowledge of an animal, its
habits, manners, and propensities, to examine well its den.
Adam's the animal I would study ; I'd gain a knowledge of his
habits, manners, and propensities ; his room the den I would ■
examine."

The door of the apartment was locked — it had been fastened by
its occupant oii the morning of the. trial ; they were compelled,
therefore to break it open, for the key was nowhere to be found.
It was one of those large old-fashioned rooms, full of quaint nooks
and convenient corners, such as are still occasionally to be found
in country mansions. The furniture resembled more the odds
and ends of an artist's studio than the garniture of a well-ordered
chamber. Cabinets, no two of which were alike, were stuck in
the different recesses. On one side of the walls eras a collection



VOL. II.

of arms of various dates and countries, together with several
strangely contrived instruments, which the visitors took for
implements of torture or divination ; they knew not which. Most
probably the modern man of science would have smiled at their
error ; for the late owner of the objects of their curiosity was in
advance of his time. One cabinet of ebony, inlaid with silver,
particularly attracted their attention. Walter had often heard
speak of it ; for the inmates of Cranfield, as well as those of the
knight's house in the city, regarded it with a feeling of
superstitious terror. No eye save its master's had ever been
known to gaze on its contents. The others had frequently been
seen open ; they contained books, manuscripts, chiefly on medicine
and the sciences, drugs, minerals, and a small collection of medals,
several of them from the hand of Adam's countryman and
contemporary, the unrivalled Benevento Cellini.

After vainly trying the various keys which they found upon the
table, Walter proposed to force it open, which Patch prudently
declined. The jester judged wisely, for the cunning Italian had
so contrived the lock of the cabinet, that on the first attempt topick
or break it the tube of a small pistol would discharge itself
full in the face of the imprudent intruder on his secret — a piece of
ingenuity which was only discovered on the production of the real
key, which was obtained from the governor of the castle, who had
found it suspended by a silver chain round the neck of Adam,
after his death by the hands of Sir John de Corbey.

On opening the doors of the cabinet they found that it contained
a small altar, over which was suspended the portrait of a young
girl of almost celestial beauty, one of those glorious faces of
sunlit joy and innocence which Guido loved to paint : golden hair,
bright as the pure ray which falls from morning's wing when first
it flashes o'er the awakening world ; violet eyes — eyes of that
indescribable, deep, thoughtful blue which poets love, as Petrarch
felt too well ; and a lip— Damascus's budding rose were pale
beside it.

Her face was of Italia's mould.

Such as her daughters bore of old ;

A classic head, whose golden hair

Fell o'er a brow like marble fair ;

A chiseird nostril, a rich lip,

Sweet as the dew the wild bees sip.

Beautiful ! " exclaimed the young man, gazing on the portrait
with enthusiastic admiration ; " who ever saw a form more fair — a
brow more intellectual ? Who can it be ? "

Stay," said Patch, approaching nearer, " here is an inscription."
He advanced, and read, engraved as if with the point of a dagger,
beneath the frame —

"'• Betrayed — June 1st, 1500. Avenged — June Isf, 1529."

VOL. II. K 2

The latter, it must be remembered, was the date of Henry de
Corbey's death and his father's desolation.

What art thou dreaming of .? " demanded Walter of his
companion, who had remained a considerable time silently musing
before the shrine ; " upon the woman ? " •

No," replied Patch, " on the Italian. The world has lost an
epic by his death. What food for conjecture," he added, pointing
to the inscription, " do those words convey ! Betrayed ! — avenged !
who would believe a few scratches could be so eloquent ?
Scholar, burn thy books, since two brief words can better tell the
history of the heart and its fierce passions than all thy musty
treatises I "

"Adam must have calculated shrewdly," said Walter, '^ since
month for month, perchance hour for hour, the crime and its
atonement were the same. Fearful, doubtless, were the wrongs
which demanded such relentless retribution. Father Celestine
was right in his conjecture — the bond between the destroyer and
the avenger must have been of hate."

This, at least," said the jester, removing the picture, " shall not
fall into the hands of those who would indulge in ribald jests,
perhaps, over its Other's fate. I'll keep his treasure as a memento,
not ©f his crimes, but sorrows. It v\'ill serve my spirit to converse
with when 'tis sad."

Where wilt thou hang it ? " inquired the young man.

In an odd museum," replied the melancholy jester, " where
I have treasured up stray waifs like these ; books which have no
meaning but to memory — relics which the heart's devotion alone
can venerate. I shall live to glean more treasures for it yet —
Rome's sullied purple, a queenly cro^sai, and, perhaps," he added,
fixing his eyes sadly upon his companion, " the vow of broken
friendship. No matter ; the collection will only be the more
curious from the contrast."

Cynic ! " exclaimed Walter ; " with thoughts like these, wronging
thyself no less than friendship, thou art more suited to a
cloister than a court. Thou wouldst preach well in a cowl."

Right," said Patch ; " it should have beeji a cloister."

"And what wouldst thou have done there ? Debauched the
monks, with merry jests ? — cheated old Time with quaint philosophy,
and made his hours pass lightly ? "

Neither."

What then ? "

Why," said the jester, with an effort to cast off the melancholy
which oppressed him, " in gulling others I should at least have
learned to forget myself; but," he added, "leave spleen to
statesmen — 'tis their heritage — morals to priests, who best should
understand them, and let us to our duty. What wilt thou claim
for thv museum ? "

I do not understand thee ? My museum ! I have not yet
begun to form one'

"Then the collecting it will last the longer. Poor boy — poor
boy ! Those," he added, " who begin in early life to count ths
shipwrecks of their happiness, — to store up the relics of the hearts
they prized — the hopes which dazzled only to mislead — have half
gone through their task."

Walter understood at last what the speaker meant by his
museum.

It was curious to observe the rapidity and knowing looks with
which the jester examined the contents of the remaining cabinets.
Articles apparently of no inconsiderable value were thrown by
him carelessly aside ; whilst certain oddly-shaped phials and
packets of drugs were crammed in his capacious pockets ; neither
was a small manuscript which related to their use forgotten.

More subjects for your museum," observed the young man,
who for some time had been silently watching the proceedings of
his companion. Patch raised his head and answered, drily :

No, these are for the world — arms for its miseries and its
treacheries. Folly is the legitimate executor of wisdom, and in
nine cases out of ten its heir. Thou and I may live to bless the
day which made us the leech's heritor. Here," he added, " is a
trinket the Egyptian queen would have purchased with her crown,
after she had failed to move the love or pity of Octaves."

He held up a ring of massive gold, which he had found in a
small drawer in the cabinet.

As he spoke Walter examined it, but could perceive nothing
either remarkable or valuable in it, beyond the workmanship and
the metal.

A vast treasure, truly ! " he exclaimed, returning it to tho
jester, who carefully put it in his pocket. " The bells upon thy
cap, friend Patch, were worth a dozen such."

The speaker knew not it was one of those rings, invented first in
the East, made hollow and charged with a^ subtle poison, so mild,
yet so sure in its effects, that the curious eye of science might
vainly try to trace the cause. When Walter saw it next it glittered
on the hand of Wolsey.

Finding that the dispute between the prior and the citizens was
not to be settled so easily as he at first imagined, the cardinal broke
up his legatine court, and adjourned the cause to London, where
he was anxiously expected by the impatient Henry — eager to
prosecute the favourite project of his divorce. The heiress of
Cranfield travelled in his eminence's train, the good Queen
Katherine having determined to receive the helpless orphan under
her own immediate protection, an arrangement which gave the
anxious lover of the maiden more uneasiness than he ventured to
express.

Ou the arrival of the travellers at York House, the magnificent
residence of Wolsey, better known to our readers perhaps by its
modern appellation of Whitehall, the churchman was informed
that her majesty was at Greenwich ; and thither, without even
being permitted to alight, the Lad* Mary and the lay sister from
the convent who attended her were compelled to continue their
journey, her protector being anxious, not only to oblige the queen,
who expected her, but to avoid a pretext for scandal ; for, as a
prelate, he was a strict observer of all the outward proprieties of
life.

Whither, goes thou ? " demanded Patch of the disappointed
Walter, as he turned from the river, after watching the barge
which conveyed his mistress to her royal protectress out of sight.

To seek out the prison of Father Celestine," replied our hero.

I thought as much ; but spare thyself the pains. I have found
it out for thee."

"You ? " said the young man, with an expression of incredulity
upon his countenance ; " why we have but just arrived, and thou
hast spoken with no one save myself."

And the messenger who yesterday brought letters from the
primate," observed his friend. " The poor old man is a prisoner
in the Lollards' Tower : that priestly den," he added, "• where men
with mercy and religion on their lips enact the part of fiends."

Walter shuddered, for he had heard of the horrors which even
Warham, Archbishop of Canterbury, had caused to be exercised
towards his prisoners ; not that the primate was particularly distinguished
for his severity. Cruelty, unfortunately, was the
peculiar characteristic of the age. Even the virtuous and enlightened
Sir Thomas More is not exempt from the charge. During
his chancellorship he caused one James Farnham, a gentleman of
the Middle Temple, to be arrested on a charge of heresy, and
brought to his house at Chelsea. As one means of converting him,
the philosophic judge caused him to be tied to a tree in his garden,
called the '•' Tree of Life," and flogged him severely with his own
hands. The unhappy victim of the enlightened chancellor was
afterwards burned at Smithfield as a relapsed heretic. So much
for More's philosophy.

I'll save him from their grasp," exclaimed the excited. youth,
though I fire Lambeth to achieve it ! "

"Pshaw ! " interrupted Patch ; "that were about as wise a thing
to do as to burn the nut to reach the kernel. Thou hadst better
crack it."

"Buthov/?"

"Hast faith in me?"

A silent pressure of the jester's hand from his companion was
the reply.

And canst thou act a part to save thy friend," continued the

speaker, ** emile whei-e thou woiiklst frown, grasp the hands of
men and feel that thou shouldst rather have thy fingers on their
throats, — teach thy young lips to praise the deeds thy very soul
abhors, forget the honest impulse of thy nature, and make thyself
a necessary lie ? "

I can descend to dissembling," replied the anxious friend of
Celestine, " to save the good priest's life."

Follow me, then," said his companion, " and, like two serpents,
let us cast our skins. Consider it but as a Christmas masque, in
which thou dost enact the devil's part. The mummery o'er, thou'lt
be again thyself."

At a distance of about three hundred yards from the principal
gateway leading to Lambeth Palace stood a substantial-looking
hostel, close to the water's edge, and known by the name of the
Golden Rose.

On the night which followed the return of Wolsey and his train
to town, the vast kitchen, which also served as a general room for
the guests, was occupied by three different parties, each party
having a table to themselves. At the one nearest the fire were
seated two citizens — an old man and a young one — the quiet
richness of whose dress proclaimed that they belonged to a superior
class. A stoup of wine, scarcely touched, stood before them. From
their abstracted air and occasional whisperings, it was evident that
they were not there for drinking, or for the pleasure of society,
for they conversed with none. The elder of the two had all the
appearance of a man who had served. His air was erect and
soldier-like, his eye clear and open, and his beard cut in the
peculiar fashion which distinguished the Walloon mercenaries of
the period. His companion, on the contrary, possessed the shy,
reserved manner of a student.

At the long table, which extended the entire length of the apartment,
were the general company, or ordinary frequenters of the
house — traders, watermen, and three or four fellows wearing the
prelate's livery. They were not more noisy than such persons
generally are. Perhaps the presence of their neighbours somewhat
restrained them. The third party consisted of four men, whose
table was drawn as far out of sight as possible in a recess formed
by the large bay-window, the only one which gave light to the
apartment. These men were, perhaps, the most remarkable
personages in the hostel. They were the two gaolers and torturers
of the archbishop's prison — ruffians Who made a pleasure of
tormenting their fellow-creatures — of exciting agony to the limits
of endurance — who watched with the apathy of science the
fluttering pulse, the glazed eye, and quivering muscles of their
victims, and descanted on each fresh discovery in their hellish art
with the gusto of professors.

Conversation was going on with considerable animation at the

principal table. The subject in dispute wos whether Lollards were
Christians or Pagans. The retainers of the Church swore they were
the latter ; else, they philosophically argued, they would not be so
frequently sentenced to the stake. One obstinate old man, the
orator of the neighbourhood, refused to be convinced even by this
authority ; perhaps, like many others who were silent on the
subject, he already doubted its infallibility. The dispute and
uproar was at the highest, when the door of the iiostel opened, and
Uvo friars entered the room.

Benedicite ! " exclaimed the elder, a portly, unbelief fellow,
whose flushed face and pimpled nose gave evidence of what kind
of fasting and mortification he indulged in. His companion, who
was evidently' many years younger than himself, remained modest! 5'
silent.

"Now, then, you shall be satisfied," cried one of the disputants ;
'-' this holy father shall decide between us. You will not doubt the
Church's judgment, though you do mine."

-' He that doth," said the rad-nosed brother. " let him be anathema.
Doubt the judgment of the Church — the corner stone on which the
fabric rests ! the very sublimation of impiety. Tapster," he added,
bring me a flask of sack ; my heart sickens at the infidelity of the
age — an old man, too — fie — fie ! "

But you have not yet heard the point in question," boldly
interrupted the advocate of the Lollards' Christianity. " Listen, at
least, ere you decide between us."

It needs not, my son," meekly answered the friar ; " since by
that infinitesimal particle of infallibility which pertained to meas
an unworthy unit of the Church, I see already that thou art in
error. But propound," he added, with an air of contemptuous
pity such as is so frequently met with in churchmen ; " propound,
our ears are open to the cause between ye."

■' Are Lollards, father," demanded the archbishop's servitor,
Christians or Pagans .'' "

"■ Mistaken Christians," meekly interrupted the little man.
'^ State the question fairly ; do me no wrong in the good father's
judgment."

Pagans ! " exclaimed the reverend judge ; " Vv'orse than Pagans !
"Wretches on v/hom the tender mercies of Holy Church, its pious
faggots and celestial stripes, are thrown away — deaf adders, whom
its fervid arguments cannot convince ; although," he added, with
a twinkle of the eye observed only by his companion, '• lately' they
have been warm enough to melt a heart of lead."

If neither Pagans nor Christians, father," demanded the persevering
little champion of toleration, subdued, but not convinced,
by the speaker's vehemence, " what are they, then ? "

The speaker eyed the friar slily as he spoke. lie had flattered
himself that he had puzzled him.

"■Anthropophagi ! " solemnly answered the religious man ; "the f
most horrible of that species of heresy which the Church terms |
carnivorous, and in atone-ment for which Christians are taught to I
fast on Fridays," I

There was a pause. Many of the listened's piously crossed them I
selves, convinced, from the high-sounding words which the friar |
had used, that Lollardism must be something more dreadful than I
any other ism they had ever heard of. Its little advocate sneaked |
quietly away ; and the speaker and his young companion seated
themselves at the same table where the two strangers whom we
have before described yere discussing their flask of wine. The
elder regarded the new comers, as they took their places opposite
to them at table, with a mingled expression of amusement and
disgust. The friar's hard words had not confounded him.

"Are you for the archbishop's court tomorrow ?" demanded
the host, as he placed the stoup of wine before them. The goodman
always attended upon gentlemen of their cloth himself — it
looked respectful, and prevented any dispute about the reckoning,
which invariably occurred whenever the tapster served them.

No, son, no," replied the elder, after tasting the wine, which
he replaced upon the table with disgust. " Host of the Golden
Rose, hast thou no conscience ? Wouldst poison thy guests ? Is
a strong woody wine like this fit for a delicate stomach ? "

It's the best I have," answered the man, in a surly tone, who
thought that the abuse of the wine was merely intended to excuse
the payment of the reckoning.
" Have I mistaken the hostel, then ? Is this the Golden Rose ? "

It is."

Hath my old friend and compeer, Gilbert of York, deceived! |
m e," continued the friar, " who boasted that I should find here |
wine fit for an abbot's table, and a reasonable host ? Wine ! " he |
repeated, with a look of disdain, " I drank better when I was a. f
novice. 'Tis as sour as the grape of Picardy." f

On hearing the name of Gilbert of York the manner of the host j
was completely changed. He immediately offered to exchange the I
wine, observing that although it was of excellent quality, he {
certainly had a few flasks of a superior kind, reserved only for such |
customers as knead how to appreciate it, or were personal friends ■,
and concluded his harangue by demanding if his reverence intended
to remain long.

But two or three days, good host," replied the friar, in a
patronising tone. " I had hoped to have witnessed the burning of
a Lollard or two ere my departure, but am doomed to disappointment.
There is no zeal left in the world," he added ; " but we are
no longer a Christian people. I would have given a rose noble for
the sight of one."

The old soldier frowned, and his young companion gazed upon

the speaker with an expression of disgust too plain to be mistaken.
On hearing the liberal proper of the speaker, the principal gaoler
started from the table where he was sitting with his companions in
the recess, and advanced into the middle of the room.

I will show you three," exclaimed the fellow with a grin, " and
charge you only for the price of one. I have them all ready cooped
up in my cage there, — three as bitter specimens of heresy — ay, and
as tough, too — as Smithfield ever boasted. What say you, master,
to a peep at my raree-show ? "

Who art thou, friend ? " coolly demanded the party to whom he
made the proffer.

The gaoler of Lambeth," was the reply.

My offer," said the monk, with the air of a man who wishes to
withdraw from a rash bargain, " extended to the burning of the
heretics, not the mere might of them ; but perhaps," he added, "you
would not make that a difficulty between us ? "

No, father," said the fellow, with a broad grin, " I cannot
promise that ; but Michael here shall put the thumb screws on them
to amuse you. There's one young fellow from the north, a Master
Everil, who had them on to-day — bold as a lion — who would show
rare sport ! "

The old soldier's companion half started from his seat at the
words, and turned so pale that the speaker must have observed
him, had not the youngest of the friars at the same moment leant
before him, as if to reach the wine which the host had just placed
upon the table. As he did so, he whispered the word " Caution ! "
in an undertone. A quiet pressure of the hand beneath the table,
when he resumed his seat, thanked him, and conveyed the intelligence
that he was understood.

Not to-night, friend," said the man of the ruby nose ; " not
to-night. Besides, I have another novice of my convent whom I
should like to witness the lesson — perhaps tomorrow."

Remember, it must be at night," said the fellow, in a disappointed
tone ; for his avarice had been excited by the proffer of
the rose noble ; " what say you — is it agreed ? "

"Why, really I "

"And you shall apply the screws yourself, holy father,"
whispered the ruffian, thinking that would clench the bargain.

Shall I ? " said the friar, his eyes flashing With a very different
expression than that of satisfaction at the offer ; " agreed : I ivill
apply them. Here," he added, pouring out a stoup of wine and
offering it to the gaoler ; " drink ! this is to seal the bond."

The fellow drained the cup with gusto — it was not often such
liquor passed his lips — and extended his hand to the donor,
exclaiming, " It is a bargain ; you will not fail ? "

When did mother Church ever fail to keep her word, especially
if an act of charity was to be performed, such as roasting a heretic

or torturing an unbeliever ? I and my brethren will be with you.
It will be a lesson for them," he added, " and an edification for me."

It was finally arranged that on the following night the friars
were to be admitted to the Lollards' Tower, there to amuse themselves
by the sight of the tortures inflicted by demons, in the name
of religion, upon the prisoners. More wine was called for, and at
a late hour the two monks left the house, on their way, as they
said, to a convent of their order in the city, where they meant to
pass the night. The other travellers who had been seated at the
same table with them, after a whispered consultation, hastily paid
for their scarcely-tasted flask, and followed them.

Thank Heaven ! " exclaimed the talkative brother to his companion,
whom our readers have ere this doubtless recognised as
Walter, and the speaker as Patch. " Thank Heaven that we are
out of that den ! If hypocrisy would make men sick, I have had a
dose of it. But I suppose," he added, in his usual sarcastic vein,
"-w^e get accustomed to it."

Success — success is certain," said Walter, warmly pressing the
jester by the hand ; "avo shall tear the victim from his merciless
tormentors yet. We shall require a boat."

"And friends," added a deep musical voice so near them that
they caught the speaker's breath upon their cheeks. They turned
round in consternation at the sound. Their two companions at the
table in the hostel were beside them. Walter laid his hand upon
a weapon which he wore beneath his disguise, ready to' defend
both Patch and himself if attacked. For a few seconds the parties
regarded each other in silence ; the old soldier was the first to
speak.

•' You are no friars ! " he exclaimed.

'' Perhaps not," said the jester ; '* but whatever we are can matter
little Sir Richard Everil."

You know me ! "

At least I name you," replied the disguised friar ; and that, too,
without ever having given you shrift. Put up your sword," he
whispered to his friend, " there is no danger. I know the man ;
his purpose at the wine house, if I mistake not, was kindred to our
own. His son is a prisoner in the Lollards' Tower."

Can you name me, too ? " demanded the young man who
accompanied Sir Richard.

"As readily as your godfather," said Patch; " you are a scholar
of Oxford, who, on hearing of his cousin's danger, fled from the
university to London to work out his deliverance — an act which,
in the eyes of the world, proves you have more heart than head,
gratitude than prudence."

Who are you ? " exclaimed the knight, more surprised at the
recognition of his nephew than of himself.

We live in times," said the jester, " when names are dangerous ;

pardon me that I have uttered yours. Me you will never know
but by my (Feeds ; and to balance the advantage v^-hich my knowledge
gives me over you, I promise to restore your nephew to his
college — his absence overlooked ; that is," he added, " if he have
the wit to keep good counsel on his expedition."

When the speaker's favour with Wolsey, who was founding a
college at the university, is remembered, his promise will not be
deemed a rash one.

How canst thou do this thing ? " demanded the young man,
curiously.

As miracles are worked — by faith," replied the friar. " I am
one of those whose promises become realities only by being trusted.
And now, sir knight, without further confidence, shall we understand
each other ? "

How is that possible ? " demanded Sir Richard.

Nothing more easy," said Patch, "to men who judge the thing
implied, and not the thought expressed. You will have a boaj^
tomorrow at midnight on the Thames ? — say for your caprice or
pleasure."

I will."

With four stout rowers on whom you can depend ? "

As on myself."

And if I, or two or three of my brethren, on returning fi*om
the Lollards' Tower, should wish to drop down the river, your
boat v/ill^be at om* disposal ? " slowly demanded the speaker.

Provided," said the knight, hesitatingly, " that you bring "

^' A certain layman with us ? Right — 'tis just the party should
fee equal. We understand each other ? "

Perfectly."

Your nephew," continued Patch, "is about the height of my
young novice here. Perhaps he would like to try how he would
look in such a frock and cowl. I'll bring them with me, for I
lave heard there will be masking on the river."

Agreed."

*' To-morrow, then, we meet again."

To-morrow," repeated the knight and his companion ; and with
this brief understanding they parted to their respective homes.

The jester and our hero reached York House without further
adventures, entering by a private door, of which the former had
the key.

Thou art a suspicious being," said Waiter to his friend, as he
x^s removing the paint and false nose from his face ; " why not
have trusted to Sir Richard Everil ? "

I trust to few men," replied Patch, seriously ; " whilst I keep
aiy secret I am its master ; when I reveal it, I become its slave.
Besides," he added, "my name might compromise my master's,
even as from the leaf men guess the tree,"

*' Can it be possible," exclaimed Walter, " that Wolsey knows
of "

Hush ! " said the jester, "that is the subject on which I have
no half confidence to give ; with me, 'tis all or none."

CHAPTER IX.

When headstrong cruelty o'er beareth right ;
Wresting the sword of justice unto malice,
Straining authority to evil ends :
The fox's cunning, and the serpent's wiles ;
Virtue permitted them. — their of the Sept.

On the following night Patch and his companion resumed their
disguise, and left York House by the private postern for the place
of rendezvous, keeping a sharp look-out, as they crept along the
bank of the Thames, for Sir Richard Everil and his nephew.
Every boat was carefully scrutinised as it passed up or down the
river ; one or two were even hailed, the rowers of which either
answered by abuse or passed on in silence. By this time they had
reached "Westminster, where they crossed the stream to Lambeth.

Surely they cannot intend to play us false," whispered Walter,
or to fail us .? "

Neither," said the jester, in an undertone. " The knight is an
artful fox, who hath served under the Emperor Maximilian in the
Low Countries ; he was mixed up, too, with Perkin Warbeck's
troubles in the late king's reign, when Lord Stanley lost his .
head and the poor youth his crown. The old soldier hath but
taken his precautions against our treachery ; he is more suspicious
of us than thou canst be of him."

A loud shout from a long, rakish-looking cutter which was
moored close to the palace wharf prevented our hero's reply. By
the light of the moon, which was at its full, every object was
distinctly visible upon the stream ; and he counted ten or twelve
men seated on the benches. Judging from their laughter, and the
frequent snatches of songs, he took them for foreign sailors who
had been drinking.

"Let us avoid them," he said, raying his hand upon the jester's
sleeve, who, after a few moments' hesitation, had quickened his
pace towards the boat ; " doubtless they have frightened our
friends from the place of meeting."

My priesthood against my cap and bells," replied Patch, " but
they are our friends."

For once, I tell thee that thou art in error ; they are Germans —
listen to their song."

A second shout of laughter interrupted the speaker ; it was
followed by the last verse of the song : —

Du Heilige ! lor Diner Kinder Fleeces
cringe yachting auf zu Deinem Licht.
Kannst wider freundlicli auf uns niedersehen
Verklarter Engel I Langer wine night !

Are you convinced ? " demanded Walter, as the echo of their
voices died away.

As much," answered his companion, " as by a rogue's
profession of his honesty, or a courtier's vow of disinterestedness.
But we shall soon see," he added ; " for, if I mistake not, here
come two of the crew to reconnoitre us."

An ol|i sailor and a young one, both in the Flemish costume,
advanced towards them as he spoke. It was impossible to
recognise them from their features, for they wore their shaggy
caps pulled closely over their brows ; "while their beards, worn
long, after the fashion of their country, equally hid the lower part
of their faces. Without the slightest salutation, or sign of
acquaintanceship, they passed the two pretended friars, apparently
disputing warmly between themselves, in their own language, on
their way. Walter cast a smile of good-natured triumph on his
friend, whom he was delighted to find, as he thought, for once in
his life, at fault.

What say you now ? " he demanded,

As I did before," coolly replied the jester ; " they are our
friends. As soon as they have reached the end of the walk, and
ascertained that wee are unaccompanied — for I told you the knight
was an old soldier, and as suspicious as a fox — they will return
and accost us."

The speaker was right, for at the very point he indicated the
two sailors paused, looked sharply round them, and, as if satisfied
with the survey, began to retrace their steps towards the spot
where he and his companion were standing. It was now the
former's turn to smile, which he did so comically that Walter
scarcely winced at the retaliation.

Good yacht, mine holy faders ! " cried the oldest of the
mariners, in a strong German accent, as he overtook them. " You
come to make some prayers to de wish to-night, or say your
penance to de moon ? "

"Really, Sir Richard," answered the eldest of the party to
whom the question was addressed, "considering your age, and
long absence from Court, you have a pretty talent for intrigue ;
your accent deceived my young companion here."

Outflanked ! " exclaimed the knight, frankly extending his
hand ; " you will admit my strategy at least was fair — mask for
mask, battery for battery. Old soldier as I am," he added, " you
have beaten me ; in masquerading I am no match for you."

Probably not," said Patch, with, a sigh; "for mj whole life
hath been one. Yon boat," he continued, pointing to the one
where the singers were seated. " is voiirs ? "

It is."

And the rowers ? "

'^ Are my friends."

And she belongs "i " added the jester.

To a vessel at Gravesend, which is ready to lift anchor and
make sail for Antwerp the moment I and my son set foot on board"'

Yon must take a companion in your flight."

"Willingly," said Sir Richard.

A good old man," interrupted Walter, '* whose only crime hath
been the reading of Luther's book against King Henry's treatise —
a schoolman's curiosity, and not a sceptic's thirst. The gaoler
boasted," he added, "that there was a third within the tower."

There will be room for all," said the knight eagerly ; " persecution
teacheth its victims mercy. Heaven forbid that we, from any
selfish motives, should leave the just work half accomplished ;
but time presses."

Patch and his comrade produced from under their disguise a
frock and capuchin similar to their own, in which the nephew of
the speaker, with a little assistance, quickly arrayed himself —
retaining, however, by way of precaution, his arms beneath his
dress. As soon as the metamorphosis was complete, the three
friends directed their steps towards the palace, where, by this
time, its rufiianly guardians were expecting them. Before bidding
adieu to their companion, it was arranged that the gaoler and his
satellites, in the event of their leaving their post, should be
secured, and conveyed in safety on board the boat, with which
understanding they parted.

"You are late," said the gaoler, as the three pretended friars
arrived at the foot of the Lollards' Tower ; " I have been on the
look-out for you for the last two hours, and began to think your
zeal had cooled."

It is more than my thirst has," replied Patch, as, with an
affectation of fatigue, he waddled up the narrow stone staircase
leading to the warder's room, which served also as a question
chamber for the judges and examiners of the primate's court.
Holy St. John ! " he added, " but these steps are hard to mount ;
they take away the little breath fasting and prayer have left me."

Hard to mount ! " repeated his conductor with a broad grin
upon his face ; " many complain that they are harder to descend.
The screams of the heretics will sometimes startle even the screech
owls."

The young men shuddered ; for they understood the allusion to
the mangled limbs and sufferings of the prisoners. The short dry
cough of their companion warned them to be silent.

The apartment into which they were shown was, with the
exception of the one in which the captives were confined, the
loftiest in the tower. The entrance to it was directly opposite the
narrow, iron-barred windows, which grudgingly admitted but
scanty portions both of air and light. On the wall facing the open
chimney, in which a cheerful fire was burning, were ranged a
collection of instruments, whose use would puzzle an antiquary of
the present day ; but which was perfectly understood by the
brutal inmates of the place whose business it was to employ them.
Thumbscrevrs, gyves, iron boots, maiden's collars, and belts,
whose jagged spikes at every turn of the wretched wearer's body
lacerated "the flesh, were amongst the most simple of the
contrivances. There were other inventions, of so complicated a
nature, so scientifically devilish, so capable of stimulating the
palsied nerves to the endurance of fresh agony, that even the
guardians who had the care of them looked upon them with a
species of terror and respect. Had Satan, as is the case on the
visit of one potentate to another, passed in review the artillery of
Mother Church, he might have carried back several useful hints,
and complained sadly, on his return to his dominions, that his
mechanists were in arrear.

A goodly collection," said the jester, after he and his two companions
had' for some time silently examined them ; " they must
be obstinate heretics whom such arguments will not convince.
What do you call this, friend gaoler ? " he added, pointing to a
frame which contained a most suspicious-looking arrangement of
pulleys, knives, and cords.

That," said the ruffian, " is called the bishop's cradle ; it was
invented by a German prelate in the time of the Crusades, and
proved the means of converting thousands of infidels : he was
afterwards canonised."

"Was he," said Patch, "the blessed man ? But, doubtless, he has
his reward. It must have been far more efficacious than argument,
which the benighted heathen would not have understood. Do
you ever use it now ? " he added.

The gaoler shook his head mournfully as he replied :

No, holy father ; it is unfortunately out of order. We tried it
twice, lout somehow it killed the prisoner each time ; so his grace,
who is of a sweet, pitiful nature, has given orders that it should be
used no more. We keep it now merely as a sort of "

Pious relic," continued the friar, seeing that he was at a loss
for a word ; " I understand."

But what are these ? " He pointed to a row of small iron
instruments as he spoke.

Those," said the gaoler, taking three or four of them down,
and throwing them upon the table, " are thumb screws. We shall
want them by-and-by," he added, with a leer at the friar as he did so.



/ trust ice shall" replied the jester, with a look equally
expressive ; " but first, friend, for the love of our Lady, give me a
cup of wine. I have not moistened my lips since vespers, as I'm
a Christian priest."

The fellow walked to a corner of the room, and poured out a
cup of wine from a large stone bottle, which he carefully placed
upon the table, after handing the cup to the speaker, who
prudently smelt it before applying it to his lips.

Excellent liquor, no doubt, friend," he said, drily, " for thy
prisoners, but somewhat too thin for thy guests ; hast thou no
better wine than this ? "

None," answered the gaoler ; " but I know where it may be
procured."

Where ? "

"At the Rose," replied the ruffian, smacking his lips, for he
remembered the flavour of the draught the friar had given him to
seal their bargain with on the previous evening.

Out on thee for a rogue," said Patch, poking him at the same
time playfully in the ribs ; "dost think that Holy Church is as rich
in carnal wealth as spiritual treasure ? Well, well," he continued,
as if melted by the recollection of the good quality of the liquor of
mine host of the Golden Rose, " it is not often that we indulge hi
creature-comforts ; there is a testoon, send for the wine, and then
to our goodly work."

He threw the piece upon the table as he spoke.

You, Bernard, go for the wine," said the fellow, who exercised
a sort of authority over the rest ; " and you. Gills, to see that he
does not drink it on the way ; remember fair play is a jewel."

'* Regarded even amongst thieves," added the donor of the coin,
who saw the two fellows depart with ill-concealed satisfaction, for
the parties were now three to two.

When shall we begin ? " demanded Walter of the gaoler, for he
began to be impatient of the delay.

As soon as the captain has been his round."

"And that," said the jester, carelessly, as if he was asking the
most innocent question in the world, " will be "

Exactly at midnight," replied the unsuspecting functionary.

It wanted rather more than a quarter to the time.

Does he visit your prisoners ? " said Patch, taking up one of
the thumb screws and examining it very attentively, as if to make
himself quite master of the mechanism of the instrument.

A mere form," said the fellow ; " he knocks with his halberd
at the door of the tower, and calls, ' Safe ward ? ' I reply, ' All's
well,' unless," added the fellow, " I happen to be drunk, in which
case I answer "

In the devil's keeping," said the assistant gaoler, with a laugh,
imitating at the same time the gruff voice of his superior.

VOL. II. L 2

A glance of intelligence passed between the three friars ; they
probably thought the information worth noting, and not the less so
that it was gratuitous.

"And what is this, friend?" demanded the eldest of them,
taking up a short bar of wood, covered in the centre with cork,
and having strong leathern thongs at each end.

•■ Oh ! that," said the gaoler', " is a gag ; his grace the primate is
a humane man, and cannot bear to hear the cries of the prisoners
as they are undergoing the question in the tower ; it disturbs his
meditations."

So I should think," observed Patch, drily.

A childish contrivance," continued the fellow, with an air of
contempt, " since thrust it into their mouths as far as you will, it
cannot hurt them, provided they bite deeply enough into the cork
otherwise it might perhaps dislocate their jaws, nothing more."

Really'' said his questioner, " the weakness of the reverend
lord almost makes me blush ; but Holy Church is so merciful."

•' Very," chimed in the two novices.

The speaker took up one of the thumb screws, and began
opening the machine, turning the vices awkwardly, as if to see
how they acted. The gaoler looked upon him with a smile of pity
at his ignorance.

Not that way, holy father — not that way ! " he exclaimed.
'* Bless me, how ignorant men become by living in the cloister !
See," he added, taking the instrument from his hand, " this is the
way they are applied."

The speaker offered to fix them upon the hands of the friar,
Vv-ho drew back with an air of childish timidity. It was no part of
his intention that they should be tried upon himself.

What ! " continued the fellow with a laugh, " are you afraid
that I should give your pious fingers a squeeze ? Here," he said,
turning to his companion, " hold out your dainty thumbs, and let
his reverence see how they should be used."

His companion did as he was directed, and in an instant the
instrument was closed upon him, and the screws turned, not
sufficiently to hurt him, but only to hold him tight. Again the
three friars exchanged looks, which seemed to say that the decisive
moment had arrived. 4

'' By oiu' Lady," cried the jester, with the most candid air
imaginable, taking up a second instrument from the table, "but it
does seem very easy. I almost think I could manage it myself.
Hold out thy thumbs, friend, and let me try ? "

The unsuspecting gaoler, with a laugh, did as he was requested :
in fact, he lent himself to the caprice of his guest much with the
air of an old soldier who lends his weapon to a child to play with,
giving the bungler directions all the while to use it. He found
Patch an apt scholar.

Now," he said, as soon as he had placed his digits in the hollow
*' close the lid — quite right ; don't be afraid of hurting me."

I Avon't," muttered the learner to himself.

That's it," he continued, " turn the screw — bravo ! — excellent
5'ou'li do it as well as I can in time. Gentles the other way —
the other way, I tell you — curse it, the fool has crushed 'my
fingers."

The gaoler and his companion being thus cleverly secured, the
three friars immediately proceeded to action. The young men
drew their concealed weapons from beneath their gowns, whilst
their comrade hastily barred the doors of the apartment.

Betrayed ! " roared the astonished ruffian, who saw too late
that he had been made a fool of. "What, ho ! captain of the
guard — treason ; the prisoners will es "

His further exclamations, as well as his attempt to reach the
window, were cut short by Patch, who thrust one of the gags, the
use of which he had so elaborately explained, into his mouth, and
tied it with the leathern thongs tightly at the back of his head.
Walter and his brother novice did the same kind office for his
assistant — a stolid, stupid-looking fellow, who appeared too much
surprised at the whole proceedings to offer the least resistance.

Not badly arranged," said the jester, with a smile of satisfaction,
to his friend, as soon as the operation was complete, " I question
if our old acquaintance Adam could have managed it much better.
We must, however, secure them to the staples in the wall."

Despite the mute resistance of the wretches, they were compelled
at last to yield. An extra turn or two of the thumb screws made
them as tractable as lambs. It was astonishing how very clever
their pupil had become ; certes, he was an apt scholar.

Where are the keys of the upper chamber ? " he demanded of
the chief gaoler.

The fellow remained with his eyes obstinately fixed upon the
ceiling ; it required more than an extra twinge before he pointed
with his manacled hands to the hook where they were hanging ;
for, of course, he could not speak.

Good ! " said Patch, with a patronising air ; " we shall understand
each other in time."

The ruffian's eyes flashed with fearful fury ; for the first time in
his life he had been made to feel a slight portion of the pangs he
had so frequently inflicted ; and, like most brutal natures, he was
cowardly sensitive of pain. At this moment three distinct knocks
were given with the butt end of a halberd upon the door below,
and the voice of the captain of the guard was heard demanding,
Safe ward ? "

This was the most critical moment of the whole. The captives
naturally imagined that the captain of the watch, not hearing the
usual reply, would mount the stairs to ascertain the cause, and

already they indulged in the anticipation of a ferocious vengeance.
They were doomed, however, to disappointment ; for the jester
advanced coolly to the window, and imitating the gaoler's voice,
for he was an excellent mimic, roared out in a drunken tone, " In
the devil's keeping."

A low inarticulate growl announced the fellow's hopeless rage
at the success of the trick. In a few minutes the tramp of the
guard died away, and the three adventurers mounted to the upper
chamber to release their friends, whom they found barbarously
chained against the wall in such .a position that it was impossible
for them to lie or sit.

Walter and his young companion hastily released Father Celestine
and the son of Sir Richard Everil from their chains. The third
prisoner was a youth of not more than sixteen, whose emaciated
frame and terror-stricken gaze announced that his sufferings, both
mentally and physically, must have been great.

God ! " muttered Patch to himself, as he unlocked the poor
boy's fetters, " can such cruelties exist ? "

No sooner was the captive released than he sank upon his knees
to the supposed friar, imploring his pity. The sight of a churchman's
robe had lately been to him a sign of persecution.' No
wonder that it inspired him with fear. It was not without some
difficulty that its wearer reassured him.

How came you within their toils ? " he demanded. " Thou art
too young for heresy. Tell me thy name."

Louis," replied the youth, hesitatingly.

Louis ! what else ? "

D'Auverne," he faltered.

D'Auverne ! " almost shrieked his liberator, dreadfully agitated
at the name. " It cannot be ; devils would pause at such a deed.
Poor boy ! thou shalt be avenged — terribly, fearfully avenged !
This present hour I must devote to thy security. That once
assured, thine enemies may tremble. Give me a token," he added,
that thou hast not deceived me."

The rescued youth whispered something in his ear which perfectly
assured the speaker of his truth ; for, with a burst of almost
parental fondness, he pressed him to his heart.

The late captives could scarcely believe in their good fortune
when told that they were free. Their situation was still one,
however, of too much danger to permit any time to be wasted in
idle congratulations. Holding his young charge, in whose safety
he had so suddenly become interested, by the hand. Patch conducted
the fugitives from their prison ; nor did the party once
pause to draw breath till they reached the boat, where they found
the knight and his friends most anxiously expecting them. The
two warders who had been sent to the Golden Rose for wine were
lying, gagged and fast bound, at the bottom of the vessel.

We have performed our promise," said the leader of the expedition
to Sir Richard, pointing to his companions ; " now, then,
keep yours."

And must we never meet again ? " demanded the grateful
father, who could scarcely keep his eyes from the contemplation
of his rescued son, or sufficiently thank his mysterious deliverer.

Never," said the friar, sadly : " our paths in life are different.
Those who see me masked must never know me, should we meet
face to face."

Is there no proof of my gratitude "

Yes," interrupted the jester, " take this boy ; protect his flight
to Antwerp ; guard him as you would the token on Vi^hich depends
your safety. Save him for my sake, love him for his own."

He will deserve it, father," exclaimed his fellow-prisoner ;
he hath cheered my heart in many a lonely hoiir."

By Heaven ! " said the knight, solemnly, taking the boy by the
hand, " I will ; he shall be unto me even as a son."

The youth silently kissed his hand, and fixed his eyes inquiringly
on Patch, in whom he suddenly seemed to place unbounded confidence.


"What are we to do with these ruffians 1: " demanded one of the
rowers, pointing to the prisoners at the bottom of the boat. " To
release them were madness — to slay them unnecessary cruelty."

Take them with you," said the jester ; " they arc more fortunate
than their comrades in the tower yonder, whose lives must pay the
penalty of this night's work. Now, then, av^^ay at once," he added
" pull for your lives. If assailed, defend yourselves like men
for whom mercy is no more ; remember that the axe and cord are
suspended over the neck of every one till he sets foot in Antwerp."

Walter hastily embraced his venerable friend, and placed him
in the vessel, where the other fugitives were already seated.
Waving his hand in silent adieu, he and his companion remained
standing on the bank watching them as they disappeared. The
tide, most fortunately, was running down, and the bark shot like
an arrow towards London Bridge.

At this moment the beacon, which was always kept ready, was
lit on the summit of the Lollards' Tower, to warn the water-guard
that some prisoners had escaped. The palace-watch, on their
return, finding the door of the prison open, and obtaining no
answer to their summons, had mounted to the chamber of the
gaoler, and all was consequently discovered.

We may still give them time," said Patch, rushing to the only
boat near the bank, and tossing the oars into the middle of the
stream. " Now, then," he added, " off with your frock and cowl."

Walter did as he was directed.

•' Can you swim ? "

A plunge in the water was the reply. It was followed by a

second ; and ere the pursuers could reach even the bank the two
friends had gained the current, and were making way rapidly
towards York House, on the opposite side of the river. A
discharge of firearms which took place indicated that they were
seen, and the splashing of the balls in the water near them warned
the swimmers that they were not yet entirely out of danger.

The tide being in their favour, a very short time brought them,
to the landing-place, up which they carefully crept, for the moon
was shining so brightly that they v.^ ere fearful of being seen making
their way to the postern, which the jester carefully opened. Once
inside, the fugitives were safe.

Our friends," whispered Walter, anxiously, — " think you they
will escape ? "

If they show a bold front they will," replied his companion,
shaking himself like a great water-dog. " Young man," he added,
there is a strange sort of confidence between us — something like
that which, in my boyhood's days, I once called friendship, till the
world taught me another name."

Call it so still," said our hero ; " old names are most familiar to
the heart, certain to the ear."

I mean to try it," continued Patch.

How so ? " demanded the youth, anxious to prove the strength
of his attachment to his capricious friend. " You saw my meeting
with yon poor boy to-night ? "

I did, with wonder — what of it ? " *

What wouldst thou do if I should bid thee, by this friendship,
then, — this schoolboy dream which thou believes in, — to forget it ? "

Forget it ! " answered Walter, with a simplicity which was at
once a pledge of his sincerity and truth.

I think thou art right, after all — old names are best", said the
jester. " Therefore we'll call it friendship." With these words
the speakers separated, each one to press a sleepless, anxious
pillow.

On the following morning, Wolsey, with his usual attendants,
took water to visit the Court at Greenwich. During the voyage,
Patch, who had once more donned his official costume, remained
close behind his master's seat, occasionally leaning over it in
earnest conversation. Once or twice, from the expression of his
countenance, Walter imagined that he was relating to his eminence
the history of their last night's adventure. While thus engaged,
none of the household, not even Cromwell or Cavendish, ventured
to approach the churchman ; it being an understood thing that
when thus occupied with the fool, the cardinal desired no listeners
to what passed between them. The gilded barge at last drew up
close to the landing-place, where the college now stands. A group
of courtiers and lacqueys, in the royal liveries, were watching its
arrival.

Welcome, my Lord of York," said Sir Thomas "Wyat, more
favourably known as a poet than a courtier, and whose after-connection,
real or supposed, with Anne Boleyn nearly cost him
his life. '' His majesty is walking in the park. I am honoured
with his commands to conduct your grace to his presence. He is
impatient for your company."

The haughty prelate merely bowed, and taking a packet which
the Earl of Derby presented to him, motioned to the speaker to
precede him. The jester fell back into his usual place in the train,
near to his favourite Walter. They had not proceeded far across
the park before they encountered Henry, who, with his attendants,
was amusing himself shooting v/ith a cross-bow at the butts.
As soon as he beheld his minister, he cast the instrument aside,
and advanced to meet him. The monarch was, at this time, in the
prime of life, of that goodly presence which the portraits of him by
Holbein have rendered familiar to the English people. Although
stout, his person presented no indication of that frightful obesity
which in the latter years of his life rendered him incapable of all
active sports, and so soured his temper that he became an object of
terror to all who ventured to approach him.

You have returned in right good time, my lord," he exclaimed,
graciously extending his hand, which Wolsey kissed. " By my
halidom, but we began to grudge the Norfolk boors so much of
your fair presence. But you have heard the news ? — Clement hath
found his reason,"

I have," replied the churchman.

Ha ! this looks like business," continued the king, rubbing his
hands with an air of satisfaction. " The holy father tires, it seems,
of the double part the Emperor imposes, and sends his legates with
fall powers to decide 'twixt me and Late. Campeggio has arrived
at Calais."

A close observer might have remarked a troubled expression in
the eye of Wolsey at the intelligence.

Never hath Rome sent so beggarly an ambassador," continued
the speaker. " No matter, we must honour him, if not for his
master's sake, for the cause he comes to judge. See to it, Wolsey
see to it ; the honour of thy purple is concerned."

The minister gravely bowed in token of obedience,

And now," said Henry, " come with me to the terrace. Thou
mttst see Kate, and prepare her for the coming trial. Heaven
knows," he added, hypocritically, " it is not for the vain pleasures
of concupiscence that we have raised the question, but for the
satisfaction of our conscience. Conscience, cardinal," he repeated,
throwing his arm at the same time familiarly over his favourite's
shoulder, " the only monitor of kings."

"And the one," whispered Patch to his companion Walter,
«' which they least attend to."

Catherine of Arragon, the-unhappy wife of Henry VIII., was
seated on the terrace of Greenwich Palace, attended by her maids
of honour, enjoying the morning breeze. Amongst the bevy of
fair girls and noble dames who, divided into various groups, were
indulging in the usual gossip of a Court, was the beautiful but
thoughtless Anne Sullen, or Boleyn — for the name is spelt
differently by contemporary writers — the queen's still more unfortunate
successor. At this period, although the attentions of
Henry were sufficiently marked, the lively object of them was far
from indulging in the hope that his capricious love would one day
raise her to the Crown. Still less did she dream that it would
precipitate her from it to the scaffold. Educated in the gallant
Court of France, whither she accompanied the king's sister on her
marriage with Louis XII., admiration was familiar to her ; perhaps
it also afforded her an opportunity of tormenting a young nobleman,
to whom at this time she was engaged, Lord Percy, eldest son of
the Earl of Northumberland, which engagement, at the secret
instigation of Henry, "Wolsey contrived to break, and hence the
future queen's bitter animosity towards the cardinal.

And you really think her pretty ? " said Anne to the Countess of
Derby, glancing at the same time towards the heiress of Cranfield,
who, seated at Katherine's feet, was for the second time relating to
her royal benefactress the trials and dangers to which she had been
exposed.

The countess nodded assent. : and added, " Wyat thinks her so."

Oh ! resumed the fair questioner, poutingly ; " like his friend
Surrey, he admires every fair woman. Poets are seldom judges of
beauty. Has the king seen her yet ? "

This was asked with an air of indifference, as if it was the most
unimportant question in the world. Her companion smiled ; she
Alas too long accustomed to the atmosphere of a Court to be
deceived.

"Not yet," she replied. "The lady, it seems, was too much
fatigued with her journey to be present at last night's masque ; but
here comes his majesty — now, then, we shall judge.' '

Katherine rose at the approach of her unkind husband, who
saluted her with the ceremonious politeness due to her rank — a
respect which, to his credit it may be observed, he never forgot.
Casting his eyes round the circle, perhaps to avoid the mute,
imploring look of the queen, they fell upon the Lady Mary. "With
his usual brusque manner, he demanded :

Hey, May-bird ! who have we here .? "

Wolsey named \\\^ protege to the monarch, who was still leaning
on his shoulder.

"What !" he exclaimed, "my old friend Many's grandchild ?
Hast any semblance of his honest face ? "

The queen whispered her to approach, which the orphan did

with graceful modesty, and bent the knee before the speaker,
whose evident admiration was commented on by all.

Anne Boleyn looked furious, and Walter unhappy.

Patch, who loved a game of cross purposes, was perhaps the only
party present who was amused.

By my faith ! " continued the king, half-playfully and half-wantonly,
touching her burning cheek with his finger, " thou hast
thy grandsire's clear bright eye — though, not to wrong the good
knight's memory, a somewhat fairer visage . Welcome, sweetheart,
to our Court, Tis the fairest maiden," he added, turning to Wolsey,
I have set eyes upon since Lammastide."

Covered with blushes, the trembling orphan withdrew to her
place beside the queen. The eyes of Anne Boleyn were fixed upon
her with an angry expression as she did so. Half the Court already
set them down as rivals.

Kate," said Henry, turning to his wife, who still retained her
seat upon the terrace, " before vespers my lord of York will visit
you in your closet ; his errand is of special import — touching our
future peace,"

The unhappy Katherine meekly bowed her head in token of
acquiescence — or perhaps it was to hide a tear. She dreaded
Wolsey's visits : they had of late been fatal to her happiness. Nor
was the cardinal himself much less embarrassed.

Who is that youth ? " demanded the king, glancing at Walter,
whose agitated countenance during the interview between the
heiress and himself had not escaped his observation.

Walter Lucas, the youth I named to your majesty," answered
his eminence, at the same time making a sign to the young man to
approach, who immediately bent the knee before the monarch, who
eyed him with an expression of countenance which those who
knew him judged to be anything but favourable.

By St. George ! a stalwart youngster, well knit, and stout of
limb," he exclaimed, "whose services have merited our favour.
Let him," he added, turning to the minister, " be the bearer of your
letters to Campeggio ; we owe him so much grace."

Radiant with smiles, the unsuspecting youth would have expressed
his gratitude, for he deemed the unexpected command of
the monarch the first step in the ladder which was to elevate him
nearer to the object of his wishes.

But a peculiar look from his protector restrained him ; he
contented himself, therefore, by bowing and retreating to his old
position by the side of Patch.

I am fortunate," he whispered to his companion.

Very," said the jester, drily ; " as fortunate as the starving
traveller in the desert who found a pearl."

What mean you ? " demanded the you^i.

Simply that a loaf would have been better," replied hisfi'iend ;

'noting more — but silence," he continued, "the game is but
beginning ; we shall have more sport yet'

At this moment, to the terror of Walter, Archbishop Warham,
attended by the captain of his guard and a party of yeomen, leading
the gaoler and his companion prisoner, appeared upon the terrace.

The aged primate's voice trembled with agitation as he addressed
the king, and informed him of the escape of Father Celestine,
whose crime was in Henry's eyes second only to treason.

What," said the tyrant, his eyes flashing with ill-suppressed
rage, " have we traitors so near us ? 'Tis time we took the reins in
our own hands, since delegated rule grows weak, and rank offence
aims at our very person. Knew you of this, my lord ? " he added,
turning fiercely upon Wolsey.

No such report," said his eminence, calmly, " hath been made
to me. The prisoner was not in my keeping. The moment I
heard of his monstrous crime I forwarded him under a sure escort
to the Tower. It was by your majesty's own order, as I hear,"
concluded the speaker, " that he was transferred to Lambeth."

Right ! " exclaimed Henry, in a milder tone, " I was a fool to
trust the villain to the guard of doting age. Thou art always right,
good Wolsey ; we are as a child when counselled by another."

Sire," said the venerable Warham, deeply moved by the brutal
passion of his master, " my age indeed is heavy, since you reproach
me with it."

Tut, tut, tut — let that pass," muttered the king ; " when our
blood is chafed we measure not the letter of our words. What
hang-dogs," he added, glaring ferociously upon the prisoners,
bring you with you .? "

"So please your majesty, the gaolers," said the primate, "by
whose treachery or carelessness the prisoners have escaped."

The terrified wretches sank upon their knees before their
inexorable judge, exclaiming, " Mercy ! "

Walter was about to start forward and avow the whole transaction.
Hardened as their office had rendered them, he could not endure
the thought of their suffering death through any act of his. Patch
saw his intention, and laying his hand upon his arm, quietly
whispered him :

There is a better way : follow me."

The youth obeyed him like a child, and retreated after him from
the circle. In a few minutes they were seated in a chamber in one
of the smaller turrets of the palace, the jester's usual lodging when
at Greenwich with his master. First carefully locking the door,
he pointed to a seat, and took one opposite to him : Walter's back
was to the window.

Thou hast one peculiar talent for a courtier," said Patch, as ^
soon as they were seated.

Indeed ! What is that ? "

The art of compromising thy friends."

No matter," exclaimed the young man ; " I cannot bear the
thought that yon poor wretches should suffer for my crime ; their
dying groans would haunt me in my dreams, I grant them
heartless, cruel, hardened in their fearful office, till it hath
brutalised their nature ; bad as they are, they are but what society
hath made them."

"A philosopher," interrupted his companion.

No," resumed the speaker, " but a man who woxild risk something
to keep a quiet conscience. Henry lately spoke to me with
favour, commended my zeal and service. I will confess all.
and "

Die," added the jester ; " I have no wish to hang even in thy
company."

Thickest thou I could betray thee ? "

No," answered Patch ; " but I might betray myself. Poor boy,
thou art surrounded with dangers enough already ; from this, ax
least, I have preserved thee. Whither wouldst thou go ? " he
demanded, observing that Walter was advancing towards the door,

To the king."

Too late," said his friend, pointing to the window. " Behold ! "

The gaoler and his companion were swinging from the branches
of a lofty oak in front of the tower where they sat.

CHAPTER X.

The cunning net which fraud and treachery weave

Shall oft by Providence' overruling hand

Be spread to their confusion, and the mesh

In which they sought to snare their victim's steps

Prove their own pitfall. — •' Creon."

Immediately after the execution of the gaoler and his assistant,
Henry took the arm of his favourite, Sir John Perrot, a courtier
who continued longer, perhaps, than any other to retain the
friendship of the capricious monarch, and drew him aside towards
the park, a signal to those in attendance to keep out of earshot.
Such confidence was not uncommon between the king and knight,
who exercised a sort of secret ministry under his suspicious
master, and was employed by him in certain delicate transactions,
the nature of which even Wolsey was supposed to be a stranger to.

So, Perrot," said the monarch, as soon as they were alone,
this beggarly Italian hath arrived at Calais, where our governor
writes me word he is detained for lack of means. Methinks," he
added, bitterly, " the holy father, when he sends a legate to our
Court, might at least furnish him with the necessary viaticum.
By St. Paul ! but he takes tithe enough to do so."

St. Peter's net," replied the courtier, with a smile, " is like a
mouse-trap."

How so " demanded his master.

It lets all in, but nothing out," answered the knight.

Right, Perrot, right ! " exclaimed Henry, with a hearty laugh ;
tor the simile, coarse as it was, pleased him, " Rome swallows up
in tribute enough to support an army. Perhaps we may one day
take some measure with it touching the subject ; but of this no
word, the time is far from ripe. Didst mark that stripling lately
Lucas I think my lord of York named him in our presence."

I did, your grace," said the courtier ; " also the impatient look
which followed the mark of favour your highness bestowed upon
the maid of Cranfield ! "

I noted him," replied the monarch, with a look which was
anything but a favourable augury for the subject of their conversation.


In sooth, the maid is fair," continued the courtier, " and merits
a sovereign's favour."

Dost thou think so ? " demanded the prince, with an affectation
of indifference which did not deceive his companion, who knew
how seldom the speaker gave expression, even to him, of his real
sentiments. " Of her, perhaps, hereafter ; for the present," he
added, " of this Lucas. He is to be the bearer of Wolsey's letters
to his brother legate — to this Italian priest Campeggio."

'• True, your grace."

I must have those letters," continued Henry, in a whisper, as
if fearful that the trees should echo back his words. " I am consumed
with doubts which burn like an overflowing gall within
me. I will be satisfied. Priest to priest, they will be confident.
I'd know the writer's mind ; I'd have his heart, Perrot, here in my
hand like an open book before me — read each thought, trace everj-
subtle turning. Then, if I find the mitred puppet plays me false.
I'll trample him, despite Rome's purple, like mire beneath my
feet."

The courtier trembled at the dangerous confidence of his
imperious master ; he felt like a man who was walking blindfold
upon the edge of a precipice — to advance or to retreat alike were
dangerous.

"Hast heard my will, man ? " continued the speaker, harshly.
We are not used to speak our pleasure twice."

Your highness's favour," replied Sir John, " mist be my shield,
should my lord of York suspect my agency in this sad matter."

What ! " he exclaimed, " hath the shadow become more
powerful than the substance — the servant more dreaded than his
master ? 'Tis time I look about me, since a churchman's hat bears
down a kingly crown."

'• Your grace has misconceived me," faltered the courtier ;

Heaven forbid a thought like this should wrong my master's
honour. The letters shall be obtained — if possible without
violence," he added, fixing his eyes meaningly upon the king :

but should the bearer resist, and be slain "

Bury him," said Henry, carelessly ; " what is a peasant's life
against a monarch's pleasure ? How now, my lords ! " he continued,
turning to his train, who, during the conversation, had
kept at a respectful distance ; " it seems that we must wait your
service. It is not often princes complain they are alone."

The nobles, who understood the reproof as an ungracious
intimation that they might approach the speaker, immediately
thronged round their capricious master, who entered into conversation
with them on the merits of a cast of hawks which his
brother-in-law, the Duke of Suffolk, had that very morning
presented him with, and which he intended to fly on the morrow.

As the party proceeded through the royal chase of Greenwich,
Sir John Perrot contrived gradually to fall into the rear of the
courtiers ; and soon afterwards, taking advantage of a turn in the
wood, the knight detached himself from the royal train altogether,
and retraced his way to the palace. As he mounted the steps of
the terrace he encountered Patch, who, as usual, was loitering iu
the sun — a jest upon his lips for most men, and a sneer for some.

The courtier and the fool entered the courtyard together.

That very night a Benedictine monk and an esquire of the king's
guard left the royal residence for Calais, each unsuspicious of the
other's errand. The game had commenced ; neither the cardinal
nor the monarch trusted each other.

Early on the following morning "Walter was prepared for his
departure. He encountered his protector on his way to Mass,
attended by the noblemen and officers of his household ; for, even
in the residence of the king, "Wolsey maintained his state. The
poor youth's heart was heavy, for he w-as about to undertake a
jon-ney without one farewell to the object of his love — one
opportunity of entreating for her the watchful care of one whom,
in his ignorance of Courts, he believed to be all-powerful.

'Tis well, young man," said his eminence, as the messenger
knelt before him ; " here are your credentials ; spare not for spur
or rein till you arrive at Dover, where the captain of the port, on
the production of your despatches, w-ill place a boat at yoiir
disposal. It is a high trust," he continued, " for one so young :
execute it wisely, that our royal master may not find his favour
thrown away upon the heedless or the worthless."

Crow-ell, Wolsey's secretary, placed in the young man's hand a
packet bound with a silken thread, and sealed with the cardinal's
legatine seal. It was addressed to Campeggio. Walter placed it
carefully in the breast of his doublet, exclaiming as he did so :

They must reach my heart, my lord, who would deprive me of

ii. Fast as man can do your errand I sill do it. Deign but to add
your benediction on my way."

A close observer might have seen an uneasy expression in the
churchman's eye, as he traced the air-drawn cross over the speaker's
head, and bade God speed him.

The traveller had not proceeded far upon his journey before he
heard the clatter of a heavy horse upon the lone stony road behind
him. Turning his head, he was surprised to see the rider, whose
features from the distance it was impossible to recognise, making
signs to him to stop. Concluding that some portion, perhaps, of
his instructions had been forgotten, he drew rein, and was shortly
afterwards joined by his old friend Patch, who had ridden hard to
join him.

•' What errand brings thee here ? " demanded the young man,
holding out his hand.

•" A fool's ! " replied the jester ; " at least, the world would deem
it so. I come to serve a friend. A pest upon thee, boy," he added,
vriih a melancholy smile : " I shall get human soon, and all thy
fault. Already I begin to dream, e'en as I dreamt in childhood's
thoughtless days, Y>'hen trust and friendship were not mockeries tome.
But let that pass ; we must speak touching thy journey and
thy safety. The packet with the letters from our master to Cam-reggio
"

•' Are safe in my possession," interrupted Walter, with surprise.
But what of them ? "

•• Thou wilt guard them well ? " said the jester, inquiringly.

*• Dost doubt my courage or my honesty ? " exclaimed the young
man, deeply wounded by the suspicion which he thought the
words of the speaker were intended to convey. "Guard them
well ! " he repeated ; " I'll guard them even with my life, should
any try to deprive me of them."

"The trial will be made," coolly interrupted his companion.
"• Tis to forewarn thee that I am here."

'• Indeed ! by whom ? "

'•A kingly robber, though not a kingly hand," continued Patch.
Canst thou, even when the knife is at thy throat, appear to sleep,
and let no quivering lip, no blinking of the eye, or start of fear,
betray thy trembling consciousness ? "

'• I can. But what of this ? " demanded his hearer, still more
and more confounded at his words.

Simply," resumed the speaker, " that the letters which thou
dearest, though addressed to. this Italian priest Campeggio, are
written for the king. Henry suspects his minister, and descends
to act the robber to satisfy his doubts. Now dost thou understand ? "

-I do."

'sand at the hostel on the road, where the attempt will first be
rra'l'', wilt lend thyself to this apparent theft ? "

« I will."

Without one doubt of me or thougHt of trenchers " added the
jester.

"Without one doubt of thee or thought of treachery," said
Walter, firmly, and at the same time extending his hand to his
companion ; " for what is friendship if a doubt can shake it ? "

'• And I will prove a friend," exclaimed Patch, returning the
pressure warmly. " Thy hand shall not be truer to thy purpose
than I will be to thee. Clouds thou canst not see are gathering
round thee ; thy bark will soon be tossed upon a sea where sunken
rocks and shifting sands threaten the inexperienced mariner. But
fear' not thou ; the fool," he added bitterly, " whose wit is only
sharp enough to barb a jest, or win a courtier's smile, shall pilot
thee in safety through the storm."

Thanks," replied the young man, alarmed at the warning tone
of the speaker, even while he gathered confidence from his promise
of safety. He had already tried his faithfulness, and knew he
could rely on him.

•' When the masque is played," resumed the jester, " and thou
art fairly robbed, write as in deep despair to Wolsey ; say thou
hast retired to France until his indignation shall be passed ; implore
his pardon, curse thy luckless stars, act all the madness of the
ambitious boy whose dream of greatness accident hath blighted."

Retire to France ! " faltered his bewildered hearer, to whom
the idea of a separation from the object of his affections was
insupportable. " Is there no other way ? "

Tut ! " interrupted his friend, " I did not mean to put thy
patience to so hard a trial. Old as I am, I still remember what
love is — its self-tormenting doubts and jealousies, its sighs and
April tears. The seeming robbery accomplished and thy letter to
the cardinal despatched, return at once to London.

To London ! " repeated Walter in a tone of joy, which showed
tow great a burden was removed.

'knowest thou one Harriet, a rich Lombard merchant and
money-lender in the City ? " demanded Patch, without paying any
seeming attention to his emotion. ^

The reassured lover inclined his head to intimate that he did.

"' Show him this token," continued the speaker, plucking one of
the innumerable silver bells from his cap, and placing it in his
companion's hand," and he will shelter thee. Shouldst thou need
gold, the miser's hand v/ill count it down unsparingly before thee
ixion no better pledge than this same worthless bauble. Remain
vv-ith him till I come or send for thee. Fear not," he added, seeing
that the young man was about to ' speak ; " fear not for the Lady
^tfary. She shall not lack protection in thy absence. I will watch
over her with more than a lover's care — with all a father's love.
She will be safe until we meet again."

VOL. IT. M 2

Patch kept his promise ; for, as our readers have doubtless long
ere this discovered, he was no ordinary man, but one who pinned
his faith upon his word. There were more mysteries about the
jester than his cap and bells, as time will most probably unfold ;
but we must not anticipate our story.

An object is not more truly reflected in a mirror than are the
frowns and smiles of greatness in a court. The old nobility, at the
head of whom was the Duke of Norfolk, had never forgiven
Wolsey his extraordinary rise in Henry's favour, or his magnificence,
which eclipsed their own feudal state ; still less could they
understand his character, for they were as far removed from his
genius as his greatness. The Catholic party, who were chiefly led .
by Warham, the primate, and Fisher, Bishop of Rochester, beheld
with mistrust the suppression of the smaller monasteries, which
the cardinal had commenced, having obtained bulls to authorise
the measure both from Clement and the preceding Popes, intending
to devote their revenues to the foundation of colleges and schools
of learning.

Both of these parties beheld with pleasure the first appearance
of coldness in the monarch towards his minister. Many who had
been constant attendants on his levees now neglected their, and
the chapel of the palace, which was formerly thronged when his
eminence officiated, was, unless the king was present, comparatively
deserted. Wolsey, though secretly galled, bore the insults of the
Court with proud indifference or cold contempt. Although, in all
probability, he foresaw his downfall, he knew that the hour was
not yet at hand ; fate had reserved the favourite one triumph more.
On the Sunday after the departure of Walter the sacred edifice
was thronged ; Henry, as usual, was present. But little attention
was paid by the crowd of nobles and courtiers to the Mass ; all
were in expectation of a scene ; it having been whispered that, as
soon as the ceremony was over, the captain of the guard had
received orders to arrest the cardinal, and the dukes of Norfolk
and Suffolk to demand from him, in the king's name, the great
seal.

Anne Boleyn, too, was there, in all the pride of her beauty and
ambitious whisperings of her heart, doubtless anticipating the
downfall of her enemy, for such she regarded Wolsey to be, since
in council he had recommended her removal from Court until the
question of the divorce should be decided. The only drawback to
her contentment was the sight of the fair girl who knelt by the
seat of the unhappy Katherine, and on whom Henry, from time to
time, cast glances which ill accorded with the sacred precincts.

Just as the solemn service had commenced, Sir John Perrot,
whose absence for several days had been noticed, made his
appearance with a large missal under his arm. Advancing to the
prie-dieu before the king, he reverentially placed the book upon

it, and 'withdrew to his seat amongst the courtiers, as unconcerned
as though he had but performed his customary service.

There were two hearts which beat the lighter as they beheld the
act of the knight — the cardinal's and our old friend Patch's, who
from a gallery above was intently watching the scene. I

The impatient tyrant, who imagined that he alone understood |
what was meant, opened the jewelled-clasped volume, and found, [
as he expected, a letter between its illuminated leaves ; it was i
bound, after the fashion of the times, with a silken thread, and (
sealed. We need not inform our readers that it was Wolsey's letter [
to Campeggio. |

As the ceremony proceeded, the monarch broke the seal, and, 1;
whilst his courtiers imagined him absorbed in prayer, eagerly I
occupied himself in perusing its contents. After the usual salus
nations to his brother legate, the letter continued thus : \

Knowing that his grace hath a most subtle judgment, and, by [
his learning and skill in confuting heresy, hath deserved well, not |
only of the holy father, but the whole Church, — I trust that the I
commission directed to us will extend to the satisfying of this f
matter, which proceeded from no vain lusts, but an unquiet |
conscience. He hath ever been to me a princely master, and my \
greatness is but the shadow of his favour exalting my unworthy
ness ; wherefore I will bear with no injustice towards him, I
have recommended the withdrawal of Mistress Anne Boleyn, of
whom you speak, from Court, to silence all unnecessary scandal -
albeit she is of unblemished name touching her woman's prudence.
Should the Emperor, who taketh bitterly the cause of his aunt,
albeit he once made question of the legitimacy of the Princess
Mary when proposed that he should marry her, tamper in this
matter, either with thee or with Rome, set both thy words and
countenance, as I shall do, against it. Remember that justice is
due to all, but how much more so to the illustrious prince who
demands it from the Church at our unworthy hands ! Trust not
too implicitly to the bearer of this ; he is one in whom I have
slight confidence. His grace's commands, which to me are laws,
made him my messenger in this, which else had been trusted to
another."

The concluding part of the letter treated of the manner of
Campeggio's travelling, and the ceremonial of his entry into
London, where their joint court was to be held. It is easy to
understand now why Walter was directed to permit himself to be
robbed so easily.

So," muttered Henry, after he had perused the missive, so
different from what he expected, " this is the servant they would
deprive me' of ! Faithful as when first I trusted him ; cautious
only for my advantage ; prudent, even to his own danger, when
'tis to serve his master. Knaves ! " he added, glancing on the

principal enemies of his re-established favourite a look which,
could they have interpreted, would have made many tremble,
I'll punish them as reptiles should be punished. I'll make them
lick the very dust beneath their victim's feet."

Like all men of violent passion, Henry proceeded to extremes.
The circumstance which had most weakened his minister in his
favour was the recommending the retirement of Anne Boleyn ;
but it was now, if not satisfactorily, at least sufficiently, explained.
Perhaps the passion which the licentious monarch began to feel for
the orphan heiress of Cranfield rendered him less susceptible in the
matter, and he determined that the reparation to his favourite
should be as signal as his former coldness had been unmerited.

At that part of the Mass where the officiating priest pronounces —

'• Lavabo inter innocentes manus meas "
(I will wash my hands among the innocent) —

it is customary to present him with water, into which he dips his
fingers — figuratively to purify himself for the approaching sacrifice.
On all previous occasions when Wolsey had celebrated the sacred
mystery in the royal chapel, there had been a struggle amongst the
nobles for the honour of serving him, but on the present no one
offered to stir. It was too tempting an opportunity to realise the
fable of the ass kicking at the dying lion for the courtiers to
neglect it. There was naturally a pause from the circumstance in
the solemn rite. His enemies smiled at the cardinal's embarrassment,
and wondered how he would extricate himself from it.
Their wonder, however, was but of short duration ; for, to their
astonishment and terror, the king, leaving his elevated seat,
advanced towards the altar, and, taking the golden ewer and basin
from the attendant deacon, offered it himself to Wolsey' — an
honour never, perhaps, conferred before or since by a crowned
head upon any but the sovereign pontiff.

Not to the unworthy servant ! " exclaimed the cardinal, in a
voice of deep emotion, " but to the heavenly Master whose livery
he wears, be all the honour of the king's humility."

Bowing his head to conceal the grateful tears which fell upon
Henry's hand, the speaker dipped his finger in the water, and as
soon as the monarch had returned to Lis seat, resumed the celebration
of the Mass.

So, my lords," exclaimed the king, as he left the chapel, leaning
on the arm of the triumphant churchman, " it seems that we must
do your duty for you. Perhaps," he added, "the blood of Howard,
Warrennene, and De Vere is too proud to serve where Henry Tudor
leads, as if our favour could not raise the vilest scullion to be your
equals."

In rank," said De Yere, firmly, the proud stream of his Norman
ancestors rushing to his temples, " but not in blood."

This was a sore point with the fiery monarch, who frequently-imagined
that his Norman nobles looked down upon him as the
descendant of Owen Tudor, a simple Welsh gentleman, forgetful
that by his mother's side he was equally a Plantagenet.

'Tis well, my lords," he exclaimed ; " we may find the means,
perchance, to tame this pride of blood. The hand which struck
the traitor Buckingham is not palsied yet."

This was strong language, even from Henry VIII., to the son of
a man who had so materially contributed to place his father upon
the throne : but gratitude was never the failing of his race.

Wolsey, who foresaw how necessary the assistance of the nobility
would be to the accomplishment of his master's designs, interposed,
and skilfully played the mediator.

Oxford apologised for his warmth, for the allusion to the
unfortunate Duke of Buckingham showed him that he was treading
near a precipice. His excuses were not too gracefully received,
and the prince, muttering something about fools and fantastic
knaves, withdrew to his cabinet, still leaning on the arm of his
minister.

"You have done an unwise thing, Debere," whispered, the Duke
of Norfolk, as their sovereign and his favourite left them ; " you
have made a relentless enemy, and disposed the king against you."

Be it so," replied the haughty peer, turning upon his heel.
I can yield to the lion, but disdain to crouch before the jackal.
Your grace's humour is more pliant, perhaps."

A dark scowl from the duke followed the retreating form of the
speaker. His grace was one of the uiost servile courtiers of the
day ; indeed, so much so that he afterwards pronounced sentence
of death upon his own niece, the unfortunate Anne Boleyn, after
repeatedly interrupting her defence. A few minutes afterwards,
and he was seated in the cabinet with Henry and Wolsey.

That same day two orders were given which occasioned much
surprise and gossiping at Court. The Earl of Oxford was commanded
to retire to his estates, and Sir Thomas Boleyn quietly
ordered to withdraw his daughter to Hever Castle, his family
residence in Kent, until the question of the queen's divorce should
be decided.

On the 8th of November, 1528, Campeggio, after a tedious
journey from Dover, arrived near London ; but refused, contrary
to custom, to make a triumphal entry into the city, wishing, most
probably, to give a mournful rather than a joyful air to his mission.
He took up his abode at Bath House, a mansion belonging to
Wolsey, close to Temple Bar, some remains of which are still to be
seen bearing the cardinal's arms.

At the first public interview between the legate and the king,
everything passed in the usual smooth ?nd complimentary style.
He addressed Henry as the defender of the faith and deliverer of

the Pope, who had recently been a prisoner to the Emperor, with
other flattering remarks, particularly gratifying at such a period
from a Papal legate, although at the present day they would bethought
dearly purchased by the gift of two hundred and forty
thousand pounds, which sum Henry had lately presented to the
Pope to assist him in his difficulties.

In their private interview, however, the tone of Campeggio was
altered. He used many arguments to dissuade the king from the
steps he wished to pursue — an interference which the impatient
prince resented, declaring that he feared the Pope had broken his
word with him, since it seemed that his eminence had rather come
to annul than confirm his marriage. To these reproaches the legate
replied by showing the decretal bull, but refused to let it out of
this hands, even for a moment. With all this conduct the anxious
monarch was greatly dissatisfied, but received some consolation
from the assurance of Campeggio that he was deputed to address
the queen in the name of the Pope, and exhort her to enter a
religious house ; ending the question by her voluntary retirement
from the world. But this advice, coming even from so venerable
& quarter, had no weight with Katherine, who modestly but firmly
replied that she could not break the sacrament of her marriage, for
that, if others were disposed to do so, she felt it binding on her
conscience still. While the subject was thus agitated, Henry's
deportment towards his unfortunate queen was such as to maintain
the appearance of regard and respect which he professed to feel
towards her.

Finding all hopes of persuading the queen to a compromise, by
entering a cloister, useless, preparations were made for holding the
legatine court in the great hall of Blackfriars, which had been
selected from its close proximity to the old palace of Bridewell,
where both Henry and Katherine were residing.

On the day appointed, the two legates entered the court in state,
aud seated themselves as judges on chairs covered with cloth of
gold. On the right and left were rich canopies and seats for the
king and queen. Wolsey, as Hall in his Chronicles takes care to
specify, assumed precedence over his brother cardinal. The scribes,
who were doctors in divinity, sat below the judges, while the
counsel for their majesties were ranged at each end within the
court. Henry was seated upon his throne.

Anne Boleyn, according to the authority above quoted, was in
&e hall amongst the other spectators, and surveyed, no doubt with
feelings which could not easily be described, the strange scene
Jilted before her ; although, since the order for her removal from
Court, the ambitious dreams in which she had indulged had
gradually faded away.

But the personage in the court on whom all eyes were fixed vas
the injured queen, who was seated upon the chair of slate nearly

opposite to her relentless husband. Katherine, on this occasion,
sustained her part with all the spirit and dignity which her previous
conduct had led the public mind to expect, and with
passionate indignation manifested her last ineffectual resistance to
the power of those who were appointed to hear and decide her cause.

After silence had been proclaimed, and the commission of the
judges read, a herald advanced into the centre of the court, and,
bowing before the king's throne, exclaimed in a loud voice,
Henry, King of England ! "

Here," said the prince, not giving him time to complete the
citation so galling to his pride.

Wolsey marked the tone of his master's voice and trembled.

The herald then proceeded to the spot where the queen was
seated. This time he was permitted to complete his duty without
interruption.

Katherine, Queen of England," he pronounced, " come into
court."

All eyes were fixed upon the party summoned, who rose with
quiet majesty from her seat, and, looking round the court twice,
essayed to speak. It was a bitter moment with the unhappy
princess, called upon, after so many years, to defend the validity
of her marriage and the legitimacy of her child. The proud blood,
of her imperial race flushed her generally pale features as she afc
last broke silence ;

Alas ! my lords, and is it now a question whether I be a king's
wife or no, when I have been wedded to him almost twenty years,
and in this fashion doubt never being made before, when I have
borne unto him divers children ? Alas ! sir,' she added, turning
to the king, " in what have I offended you ? Have I not been to
you a true and humble wife, ever conformable to your will and
pleasure ? If there be any just cause ye can allege against me,
either of dishonesty or other matter, I am content to depart, to my
shame and rebuke ; but if there be none, I pray you let me have
justice at your hands. I am a poor, weak woman, counselled
and unfriended."

Counsel hath been named," replied Wolsey, " and your
majesty "

My lords," continued the queen, casting on both the cardinals
a withering glance, " I do reject ye as my judges. My lord of
York, whose pestilent breath hath blown the coal of discord 'twixt
the king and me, is mine enemy — my husband's subject — his
greatness the creation of his favour ; — how then shall I expect
justice at such hands ? Therefore I do appeal to Rome — there
only can my cause be truly judged. And humbly do entreat
your majesty, even in the way of charity, to spare me until I know
what counsel and advice my friends in Spain may give me ; &Q.&.
if you will not, then must your pleasure be fulfilled."

J

Having thus spoken, Katherine of Arragon made a low curtsy
to the king, and leaning on the arm of Griffith, her receiver-general,
was about to leave the court, when Henry commanded
the herald to summon her again.

The heiress of Cranfield, who had been amongst the few
attendants who adhered to the falling fortunes of the unhappy
queen, whispered her as she reached the door that she was
summoned.

Oh," said Katherine, in a loud tone, so as to be heard by all
the assembly ; " it is no matter ; this is no court for me, therefore
I will not tarry."

Nor could she be prevailed on to return or appear again before
the legates.

Even the lustful Henry, moved by the noble bearing of his
afflicted wife, declared that she had been as true and obedient to
him as he could desire. '" She hath," he continued, — melted,
perhaps, to some portion of his former tenderness by the pitiable
condition of one who little merited to be thus degraded, — " all the
virtuous qualities that ought to be in a woman of her dignity.
My first doubts," he continued, " were suggested by the demurs of
the Bishop of Tare, concerning the legitimacy of the Princess
Mary, question being at that time entertained of her marriage.
These doubts, once suggested, were nurtured by despair of issue
from the queen, and not by any disinclination for her person or
her age ; with which I could be as well content," he hypocritically
added, " as with any woman's living."

The falsehood of this assertion could only be equalled by the
unblushing coolness with which it was made.

This declining of our authority and appeal to Rome," observed
Campeggio, who had his private instructions from the Pope,
"controls otter will, and must prolong your highness's doubt in
this same matter."

Indeed ! " replied the king, casting a ferocious glance upon the
legates ; " methinks you trifle with me ; beware, lest I contrive to
solve the knot without Rome's further aid."

The Italian priest, who trembled for his bishopric which he
held in England, hastened to assure the angry prince that he
would immediately write to the holy father , stating to him the
opinions of the English prelates, and the obstinacy of the queen in
refusing to listen to the advice which in his name he had tendered
to hei of retiring to a convent.

'• Add," said Henry, rising from his seat, " that there are other
churches than the Church of Rome — other barks on which men
seek salvation than the bark of Peter. Hitherto I have been
an obedient son — let him beware how his injustice forces me to
pry into his title. Justice refused when sued for may be at last
demanded. By Saint George ! " he added, striking with his

clenched fist upon the table, " rather than liA'e this puppet slave —
this toy of Some — I'll try my sceptre's strength against his crosier.
Mince not my words. The wrath of kings may raise as fierce a
storm as Luther's preaching, or as Bourbon's sword. Clement's
deceit and Charles's treachery have not yet subdued me."

As soon as the unhappy queen reached her privy chamber, the
pride which had sustained her when before the legates at once
gave way, and casting her arms about the neck of her only child,
the Princess Mary — who was quite old enough to feel her mother's
wrongs and the peril of her own position — the high-souled woman
wept bitterly. The orphan of Cranfield, who felt grateful to her
royal mistress for the protection she had extended both to her
mother and herself, hastily poured a small quantity of Cyprus
wine into a golden cup which stood upon the manchet table ; and,
with the tears of sympathy yet warm upon her cheek, presented it
to the crushed and humbled Katherine. To her surprise and
terror the young princess dashed it from her hand, and fixing
upon her an indignant, sullen look, demanded if she wished to
poison her sovereign.

Poison ! " repeated the astonished maiden.

Poison, minion, was the word," repeated the gloomy child ;
for even at that early age the princess gave indications of the
jealous, suspicious, cruel character which rendered her after-reign
so unpopular in England ; and which, perhaps, after all, her
mother's sorrows and the many bitter mortifications of her
childhood contributed to form, for women are seldom naturally
cruel.

For a few moments our heroine was thunderstruck. For several
days she had observed that the wayward speaker had treated her
with marked dislike, but had attributed it to her temper, which
displayed itself in passionate ebullitions to all, rather than to any
personal distaste. The innocent girl was far from suspecting that
the openly expressed admiration of the king, and the licentious
glances which he so lavishly bestowed upon her, but which, in
the natural purity of her heart, she had passed unnoticed, had
caused a suspicion both in the mind of the queen and princess
unfavourable to her devotion to their service.

Katherine — royal mistress ! " she exclaimed, throwing herself
at the footstool of the unhappy wife of Henry — " j-oti do not think
me false — you do not believe the orphan girl you have befriended
capable of treachery .^ One smile — one look — nay, but a word,"
she added, " to dispel this horrid doubt, or my heart will bi-weak ! "

So young," murmured the still agitated queen, recoiling from
her tottch, "and so deceitful ! Heaven forgive thee, girl ; for thou
hast much to answer."

You hear ! " said the princess, sternly, at the same time
pointing to the door.

What mystery" is this ? Indeed you wrong me ! "

Begone ! " continued the scowling child.

Who are my accusers ? "

The queen would be alone," exclaimed Katherine of Arragon,
rising from her chair, and drawing up her stately person to its full
height. *' We are not yet uncrowned ; the seat you dream of is
Dot empty yet."

Heaven forgive my gracious mistress her unjust suspicions,"
sobbed the orphan as she retired from the chamber, " and protect
her servant, who now indeed is friendless."

Scarcely knowing which way to direct her steps, overwhelmed
hj the sudden and degrading suspicion, the bewildered girl tottered
through several of the apartments which formed the suite of her
deceived benefactress, nor paused till she reached a large saloon
hung with arras and furnished with rich cushions. Here her little
remaining strength gave way, and she would have fallen to the
ground had not a strong arm sustained her.

She started at the touch. That arm was Henry's.

CHAPTER XI.

Love seeks not happiness obtained through tears ;

Knoweth no pleasure in a selfish joy,

Blights not the flower beyond its eager reach,

Or planted thorns lest other hands should pluck ;

Its abnegation is its seal of truth. — " The Puritan."

In tears, sweetheart ! " exclaimed the amorous king, gazing
upon her with an expression which brought the warm blood into
the maiden's cheek. " Marry, beshrew their hearts whose lack of
kindness could dim such eyes as thine ! What is thy cause of
sorrow ? Let those who have angered thee take heed of me."

"A whim, a girl's caprice, a thought, the oppression of a
wayward heart ; nothing, your highness, that should raise a serious
thought within a monarch's mind," answered the generous girl,
determined, under any circumstances, not to allude to Katherine's
unkindness or the Princess Mary's unjust suspicions.

"Tut, May-bird ! it is fixed on thee oftener than thy modesty
supposes. We feel no common interest in thee, and will mark
that interest by no common favour. The arrows of thine eyes
have hit a loftier mark than how hast dreamt of yet. Tell me,"
he added, in a softer tone, '• why do I find thee weeping ? "

Sire," said the orphan, trembling with apprehension of an
avowal which, even from a king, her soul would have repelled
-with scorn, " my heart acknowledges your bounty to your old
servant's grandchild, but the protection of my royal mistress more
san repays the service of his life. 'Tis past." she added, struggling

to regain her composure; "woman's tears are but as April
showers, falling 'twixt sunshine. Permit me to retire."

'• So," he muttered, in a lower tone of voice, still retaining her
hand, " Kate hath rated thee, sweet wench ? "

Your highness ! "

Tut ! I see it all ; I know a jealous woman's tongue hackett
discretion, breaketh all bounds, and runs a tilt with prudence."

Alas ! your grace but she hath many griefs," interrupted his
prisoner, for she had not yet been able to withdraw her hand from
his grasp, " threatened by the loss of your most princely favour
and affection."

Is such a loss a gi-fief ? " demanded Henry, with a meaning
smile.

As queen and mother doubly so to her."

And have not I my sorrows ? " interrupted the monarch, " and
few to feel for me ? Bound by a chain which conscience tells me
Heaven approves not, tormented by a love," he added, fixing on
her a glance which spoke the passionate admiration of his heart,
which even I must pause ere I avow,: — for I would be loved as
kings are seldom loved — not for my crown, but for myself alone, —
I would possess a love such "

Such," added the heiress, determined if possible to prevent
the avowal of his passion by not appearing to understand him, —
such as the royal Katherine feels, whose birth, though less than
her virtues, renders her the mate of an imperial throne. Besides,"
she continued, " whose love, my liege, can ever equal hers who is
the mother of your gracious child ? "

Yours ! " exclaimed Henry, attempting to retain her hand.
Yours, for which I sigh. I gaze upon you, and forget my
sceptre. I listen to the music of your voice, and earth seems dull
without j'ou. I tire," he continued, "of woman's flattery and
man's deceit. I pine to find a heart which can forget I am a king,
a tongue to speak with me in simple truth. The song of the
untaught bird will oft entrance the ear more than the practised
warbler in its gilded cage. Say, sweet one, canst thou love me ? "

As my king," replied the maiden, turning as pale as the marble
pedestal against which she leant for support. "Yes — truly and
humbly, as a subject ought."

Forget I am your king," impatiently interrupted the royal
libertine; "I have enough already of such lip homage. Canst
love me as a man ? as your own knight H as Henry would beloved
.' "

No such evil thought hath. ever tempted me. , Frown not, sire,
if I prefer the smile of Heaven even to yours ; remember that,
humble as I am, the love which failed to raise might still debase
me."

But it can raise thee, girl," he whispered, thinking that her

objections to become his mistress might give way before the
temptation of even the distant hope of becoming his wife. " This
hand can lead thee to so vast a height, the world shall lie like
some rich garden at thy feet — place thee where men shall pin
their fortunes on thy smile — where sorrow's chills and the sad
storms of life shall never reach thee."

"I should turn giddy, my dread lord, and fall from such a
pinnacle. I was not born for gazing on the sun — the valley suits
my humble footsteps best ; the j^ath you name leads not to
happiness."

What," said Henry, " if it lead you to a throne ? "

It would not tempt me ; conscience would haunt me with
unholy dreams, memory remind me of her wrongs who sat there,
terror and guilt overshadow it with evil. I see your grace," she
added, " sports with my inexperience, or wished, perchance, to try
me ; but believe me, prince, I am too grateful to my royal mistress
too long the witness of her many virtues — to suffer such weak
dreams to mock my reason."

By Heavens, girl," said Henry — for even his coarse brutal
nature could appreciate the purity of her motives — "but I am
serious ! The thrall which binds me in unholy fetters, despite
Rome's subtle policy and wire-drawn pleadings, soon shall be dissolved.
Then, when the chair is empty, and my hand is free "

My answer will be still unchanged," said the orphan, mildly.
Were your grace's state fitting to mine as now 'tis far above it,
such wishes would be equally in vain."

"■' Dost tell me so ? " exclaimed Henry, in a tone so harsh that
the girl sank almost fainting on the pile of cushions near which
she had been standing. " 'Tis well ; the whisperings I have
heard, it seems, are true. Sir John de Corbey's accusation was
not all a falsehood — the heiress of Cranfield loves a menial."

Your highness, he you name is gently born, though little
graced with fortune's misused gifts."

'' A peasant knave who broke his trust to Wolsey, and lost or
sold his letters to Campeggio."

My life, your highness, upon Walter's faith."

'• Dost brave me, minion ! " continued the incensed and mortified
monarch, his still handsome features flushed with anger. " Heed,
lest I take thee at thy word. For thy springal, let him beware ;
the hour he sets his foot on English ground, by my unbroken
faith, shall be his last ! For thee," he added, " forget our passing
jest — ha ! ha ! ha ! But, by St. George, it was not badly played !
Henry refused, and by a simple girl — ha ! ha ! As if a king
would condescend to sue when with a word he might command —
ha ! ha ! "

Turning on his heel, without deigning further notice of the
maiden, the burly speaker quitted the apartment.

No sooner had the tyrant disappeared than the unhappy heiress
felt the full misery of her position. Alone, without an
adviser — persecuted by Henry, rejected by the queen —
suspected, menaced, and trembling for her lover's safety more than
for her own — many and bitter were the thoughts which crowded on
her mind. She was startled from her painful reverie by the
rustling of the arras near her, which, as the echo of the angry
monarch's footsteps died away, was hastily drawn aside, and
Katherine of Arragon, accompanied by the Princess Mary, entered
the chamber. There was a noble sorrow on the countenance of
the royal matron, for her own ears had convinced her how
unfounded were her suspicions of the orphan girl ; and with
the impulse of a generous heart she hastened to make atonement.


Even the features of the scowling child were softened from their
usual harsh expression.

"Thou wilt forgive me my injustice," exclaimed the queen,
•• and Mary's petulance ; alas ! poor child, her mother's griefs, and
not her nature, spoke. I have witnessed all," she added — " thy
unavailing generous defence of the rights of those who had so
lately scorned thee."

•' My gracious mistress," sobbed the heiress, sinking upon her
knees, and kissing her extended hand, for her heart felt relieved of
more than half its burden since she found her innocence acknowledged
by Katherine, — " how can the object of your care atone for
the sorrow of which she is the involuntary cause ? "

•' Not thou — not thou the cause," sighed the queen, " but Henry ;
his passions are as untamed as the relentless tiger's will. Heaven
grant hereafter they prove not as destructive ! "

•• Madam," said the heiress, her former terrors of the king
returning, '• remove me from the Court, restore me to my peaceful
convent's shade ; I have known few happy moments since I quitted
it. Alas ! " she added, " how beautiful were earth, how rich in
joys, did not man's evil nature mar the bounteous gifts ! The
serpent which tempted him in Eden dwells no longer in the garden,
but in his heart,"

True, girl," said Katherine ; " and where the reptile's venom
fails to poison, its fangs will strive to wound. To-morrow," continued
the speaker, trying to restrain her emotion, " I quit the
palace of my husband for my manor of Kimbolton. I know the
separation is doomed to be eternal. They would divorce me from
my crown, from Henry's heart ; separate me from my child, and
brand upon my matron brow the seal of shame ; but never," she
added, " shall act of mine give sanction to a deed which robs my
Mary of her birthright. My child may yet avenge me."

I will avenge thee, mother," the young princess slowly pronounced,
as if, at the same time, she mentally registered some

fearful vow — " if Mary lives, the wrongs of Katherine of Anaj^un
shall be atoned."

History proves, when, after her brother's death, she mounted the
throne, how fearfully the speaker kept her word.

Fallen as I am," continued the queen, without apparently
noticing her daughter's promise, but addressing herself to the
orphan, " I can still offer a humble shelter to the child of my
faithful servant, unless," she added with a bitter smile, " the exile
from the Court affright you." '

The mariner quits not the sea-tossed vi^eck to tread on land
again with half the joy with which I shall fly from its treacherous
precincts."

"Tis well," said Katherine ; " follow me to my closet. I will
arrange with Griffiths for thy departure. Thou longest to a broken
fortune, girl, but a firm heart ; and Heaven may one day recompense
thee."

With these words the speaker once more raised the arras and
retreated through the private door by which she had entered ; the
heiress caught the curtain as it fell, and drew back to make way for
the princess, who was about to follow ; when suddenly the young
girl seemed to recollect something she wished to say, and motioned
her to let fall the hangings. There was generally an amiability
of manner in all she did ; but at the present moment she was
positively gracious. Fixing her eyes upon her namesake, she said
in her usual quiet voice :

I have been unjust : but Lady Boucher was to blame. I am
but a child, and naturally feel my mother's injuries as keenly as my
own. Do you forgive me ? "

The only reply of the late object of her anger and suspicion was
to kneel and kiss her hand.

Perhaps," said the speaker, "• I may be able to atone it ; and
here is a token that I will do so, I make few gifts ; for to each
gift thei-e is a promise. Return this reliquary to me should fortune
ever place it in my power to redeem my word. Whatever you ask,"
she added solemnly, " shall be granted ; he it a life an hotiouVy ora
vengeance, Mary will not fail to keep her word."

The child kissed the small jewelled shrine, which had been presented
to her by her cousin the Emperor on her birthday, as she
spoke ; and removed the chain to which it was suspended from her
neck, she passed it over the head of the heiress of Cranfield, an ho
once more bent the knee to receive it. Little did she dream how
precious would the gift in after years become.

Hide it," said the donor, resuming her apathetic manner,
and attend me to the closet of the queen : guard it well ; for I
make not such gifts often."

The curtained entrance to the apartments of Katherine was once
more drawn aside, and the haughty daughter of Henry Till.

proceeded with her usual quiet step to the chamber of her unhappy

mother.

» » * * »

When Walter parted with Patch on his way to Calais with
Wolsey's letters to Campeggio his mind was agitated by a thousand
doubts and fears. Not that he suspected the jester of treachery ;
on that point he felt at least secure. But his words pointed to some
portending danger — something fatal to his love — perhaps to the
happiness of Mary ; and that future, which had lately seemed so
bright and fair, so full of hope and promise, was once more clouded
by the gathering tempest and approaching storm.

At Petersham, where he halted on the second night of his
journey, he encountered, in the little inn at wftich he had been
directed to stop, a party of travellers — merchants seemingly, whose
conduct, without the clue given to him by his friend, would have
excited his suspicions. They conversed freely upon the subject of
the divorce, then the engrossing topic of the day, and appeared,
despite their peaceful occupation, ready to pick a quarrel and cut
the throat of any man who argued that Henry was not justified in
his demand. The host of the Golden Crown was equally loyal.

Of course our bluff King Hal is right," he exclaimed, as he
ladled the soup into the wooden bowls which were ranged for the
guests upon a clumsy oaken table, strewed with herbs by way of
garniture. " What is the use of being king, if he is not to have his
own way ? Marry ! " he added, " if things progress as they have
done of late, I should not wonder if men dispute, at last, his grace's
right to govern his kingdom as he pleases, since disloyal knaves
begin to cavil at his pleasure."

What would the speaker have said had he lived to witness the
altered state of royalty at the present day ? But he spoke, however,
in the spirit of the times in which he lived.

By this time the soup was served, and the benedicite pronounced
by a friar, who chanced to be amongst the company, and not an
unobservant spectator of what was passing. Each traveller being
served, they produced from their pockets, or from the small satchels
Which the better orders wore at their sides, spoons of boxwood or
metal, and set lustily to their repast, for few houses of entertainment
at the period of which we write furnished their guests with such
conveniences, each one being obliged to find his knife ; as for forks,
they were generally unknown.

Is it far you travel, sir ? " demanded the elder of the merchants,
addressing Walter, who was seated next him.

"To Calais," replied our hero, who fancied that he was not
entirely a stranger to the voice of the speaker, whose person, however,
was too well disguised, if his conjectures were right, for him
to recognise.

*' I, too, am bound for France, to purchase merchandise : which,

VOL. IL N 2

Booth to say, finds a ready sale at Courts where foreign braveries are
all the favour, and turn the honest penny to the trader's hand."

This was touching upon one of the most delicate topics of the
day, for there had lately been fierce disputes between the citizens
of London and the foreign merchants, who engrossed the trade of
the metropolis in their hands. Henry VII., with a view to benefit
his dominions, had laid down stipulations in most of the treaties
which he formed with foreign powers for establishing a commercial
intercourse between them and Great Britain. He encouraged
Italians and Germans to visit his kingdom to dispose of foreign
goods, and to take in exchange woollen cloths, tin, and lead. At
first these foreigners were compelled to pay double duty on the
goods which they imported ; but this being found detrimental to
commerce, the customs were abated, and the trade rapidly increased.
Thus we see that even in the fifteenth century the principle of free
trade was beginning to be understood. In the reign of his son, the
display and amusements, the dress and extravagance of the Court,
the emulation to excel in every species of splendour amongst the
nobility, and the intercourse with the French, who have always
excelled us in all that is gay and costly, naturally occasioned an
enormous demand for silks, damasks, jewels, wines, and luxuries of
every description. These articles were chiefly supplied by
Florentine or Venetian merchants, to whom great protection was
given, and who acquired, by their monopoly of the trade vast
wealth in this country. Hence jealousies had arisen ; and these
insolent foreigners, boasting of the favour of the king, inflicted all
those petty insults upon the English mechanics and traders, which
persons accustomed themselves to obsequious deportment to their
superiors delight to offer whenever they have an opportunity. The
conflict broke out between the two parties upon the following
occasion.

Williamson, a carpenter, having purchased two stock doves, was
rudely deprived of them by a Frenchman, who insolently declared
that they were not fit meat for a fellow like him. The poor man
urged in vain that, having paid for them, he had a right to regale
himself with them. The thief ran off declaring that he would carry
them to the French ambassador's. He did so, and found shelter
in his house. The poor Englishman, disappointed of his birds,
naturally gave vent to his indignation, into very measured language ;
for which he was committed, at the request of the minister, to
prison. The ambassador, being shortly afterwards sued bj" the
mayor of the city for the delivery of the prisoner, made answer
that, by the body of God, the English knave should lose his life,
for that no Englishman should venture to deny what a Frenchman
required ; nor would he give any other reply to the friends of the
poor carpenter.

This, and similar acts of tyranny, so incensed the citizens that

they requested Dr. Edge to preach against the privileges "which the
foreigners enjoyed. Encounters between them and the 'prentices
became of frequent — nay, almost hourly — occurrence ; till at last the
mob attacked Newgate, and released not only the carpenter, but
several other prisoners, who had been committed for insulting
these pampered, insolent strangers.

The riot at last reached such a pitch, that the Earls of Surrey
and Shrewsbury were sent with a body of troops to subdue them.
The ringleaders being secured, commissioners were appointed to
decide on the fate of the offenders. The court, over which the
Duke of Norfolk presided, sat in Guildhall, and the prisoners, to
the number of 270, were introduced, tied together with ropes.
Thirteen of the citizens were executed upon gibbets erected in
those parts of the City where the principal disturbances had
occurred, to the disgust as well as terror of the inhabitants.

Henry, perceiving that the commissioners were pushing the
affair with too much severity, pretended to yield to the entreaties
of the three queens — Katherine of Arragon and his sisters Mary of
France and Margaret of Scotland, who fell upon their knees and
demanded pardon for the citizens — a petition which the king, as
Stowe informs us in his Chronicles, reluctantly accorded. Only
imagine thirteen citizens being executed in the present age for a
simple riot caused by the overbearing insolence of a Frenchman !
This little episode is, however, but a faithful picture of what took
place in the good old times, which the blind idolaters of the past
sometimes tell us we shall never see again, to which we doubt not
but that the majority of our readers will exclaim, " Heaven forbid
they should ! "

No sooner had the supposed trader therefore declared his intention
of proceeding to France to purchase merchandise than a
volley of abuse from several of the guests broke out, and words at
last rose to such a pitch that swords were drawn. Walter, whose
disposition naturally inclined him to side with the weaker party,
had already drawn his, and ranged himself by the person assailed,
when the friar, who had remained an unconcerned spectator of the
scene, approached and whispered in his ear a caution to be prudent.
He turned and eyed the friendly monitor, but he was a stranger
to him.

Whilst yon remain tranquil," said the speaker, " there will be
no blood drawn ; it is against you their swords are drawn, and not
against each other."

The observation, which accorded so well with the information
which his friend Patch had given him, recalled him to his senses,
and he quietly resumed his seat, when, as the friar had predicted,
the dispute gradually subsided, and the quarrellers became once
more friends.

Leave the packet ! " whispered the churchman, as he withdrew

for the night, " upon the stool beside the bed, and take no heed of
what passes ; there is danger even in the blinking of an eye. Act
as you have been recommended, and you are safe."

Whatever might have been our hero's previous determination, he
now resolved to follow implicitly the advice of the speaker, whom
he judged at once to be an agent of Wolsey's. Bidding him,
therefore, a good-night, he proceeded to his chamber, which
contained two beds, one of them occupied by the trader* whose
avowal had occasioned the pretended dispute amongst the guests.
Following the directions of his unknown friend, he placed the
packet by the side of his pallet, and cast himself, half-dressed,
upon the straw-covered couch. Few inns in the reign of Henry
VIII. afforded better accommodation than that simple, but not
very luxurious, material. Despite the repeated assurance of safety
which he had received, he took the precaution of taking his sword
to bed with him ; for, as he wisely argued to himself, it was at
least one guarantee the more.

In the extraordinary position in which he was placed, our hero
found it, despite the fatigue he had undergone, impossible to sleep.
With his half-closed eyes he lay for some time watching the pallet
opposite to him ; the hard, regular breathing of its occupant
announced that he slept, or pretended to do so. Gradually these
breathing became less and less distinct, till at last they entirely
ceased, and Walter saw the pretended trader rise from the bed,
upon which he had thrown himself half-dressed, and cautiously
creep towards the stool upon Which he had placed the important
packet, quietly possess himself of it, and hasten from the apartment.
In less than ten minutes afterwards the sound of horses'
feet upon the stony road informed him that the successful robber
had departed with his prize.

But for the word of one I am bound to trust," muttered the
dissatisfied youth, " I had not lain here to be plundered like a
sleeping cur. 'Sdeath ! how I lodged to spring upon the thief and
try the mettle of his courage Though perhaps," he added with a
sigh " 'tis better as it is."

Much better," murmured a voice, which must have been near
him for the speaker to have caught his words.

Walter with one bound started from his couch, and stood upon
the floor of the chamber, sword in hand.

Who is there ? " he demanded, glancing round the room, which
was imperfectly lighted by the small lamp hanging from a rafter
in the ceiling, the ponderous timbers of which, rudely put together,
supported the roof of the house.

Look up," was the reply, " and you will see."

He did so, and beheld the friar who had given him the warning
below, crouching like a squatting Indian behind one of the massive
pieces of woodwork directly over the bed on which he had been

resting. From the gloom of the chamber it required a strong
sight, as well as a minute examination, to trace the outline of a
human figure amongst the beams and timbers of the roof. When,
however, he could sufficiently distinguish, he saw, not without a
vague feeling of terror, that the speaker held an arbalette in his
hand ; so that, in fact, all the while he had been reclining on the
couch, his life had been entirely at his mysterious friend's disposal.

Help me down," said the speaker.

The young man did as he was directed ; and as soon as the
stranger reached the floor, he seated himself upon the bed, and
motioned to Walter to take a seat upon the stool beside him.

II Sir John had remained much longer, I must have called
out, said the pretended friar ; " I have had the cramp this half-hour."


Sir John I You know the robber then ? " demanded the
messenger.

"I should think I do," replied the fellow, with a comical
expression of countenance.

And his name ? "

Sir John Perrot, the favourite of the king."

And what was thy errand here ? " demanded Walter.

To watch over thy safety," replied the fellow ; and no
unnecessary one, judging from thy want of prudence whilst
below."

And thine arbalette "

Would have sent a bolt to the false knight's heart, had he
broken faith with us and played thee false. You may sleep securely
now," continued the speaker ; " in the morning write the letter as
directed — I will be the bearer. Then wend you way to where you
are directed."

And that," said Walter, willing to ascertain how far the friar
was intrusted by his friend, " is to "

Where concerns not me," interrupted his companion ; " Patch
is a cunning gamester, and never shows his hand : he may at times
let fall a card or two, but holds the leading trumps. Good night,"
he added, at the same time throwing himself upon the pallet where
Sir John Perrot had so lately lain ; '* my task is ended, thine
perchance begins."

The young man followed his example, but it was a long time
before he could compose himself to sleep. The events of the last
few days appeared a mystery to him. One thing, at least, was
clear to his understanding — that Henry's favourite servant and
confidant was in the interests either of the cardinal or the jester ;
how else could the intended robbery have been made to answer
the purpose of the former, by substituting such a letter as the
ambitious statesman knew would serve him with his master, whilst
the one really intended for Campeggio was forwarded by a second

messenger ? But whether his eminence was a party to the warning
he had received, or that he owed it, as well as the precautions
taken to insure his safety, to the friendship of Patch, he was at a
loss to decide. His tired thoughts gradually gave way to nature's
sweet restorative, and he closed his eyes at last, to dream of love

and its delusive hopes.

* * «j *

In the reign of Henry VIII. the chief bankers and money-lenders
were the Jews and foreign merchants. Marriott, one of
the most considerable of these money-lenders, was seated in his
shop in Lombard-street, expatiating upon the beauty of a Venetian
chain which a gallant of the Court was cheapening, when a #'^oung
man, apparently much fatigued with travel, crossed the threshold
of his house.

Ha ! nephew," said the Italian, extending his hand to him,
welcome home again I You found the merchandise, I trust, all
right at Calais ? "

Merchandise ! " repeated the young man, who in fact was no
other than our old friend Walter.

Ay, merchandise," repeated the little old man sharply. "Marry,
this comes of giving boys a holiday, as if thou couldst not have
combined pleasure and profit, at the same time. I warrant me thou
hast not forgot to spend the five crowns I gave thee. But get thee
in," he added : " it was an evil hour when I consented at my
sister's bidding to take such a scapegrace 'prentice,"

Without giving the astonished youth time to speak a word, the
irascible little usurer pushed him into a small inner room at the
back of his shop, and closed the door upon him.

Ah ! my lord," he said to the nobleman, who had been too
much occupied in admiring his purchase to pay much attention to
the features of the young man, " you are f fortunate ; j'ou are not
plagued with the care of such a nephew. Two hundred ducats,"
he continued, returning to the previous subject of their conversation,
" is the lowest price ; the carbuncles and rare pearls, as I aman
honest man, are worth the money."

The bargain was speedily concluded, and the lover of the fair
Geraldine — for it was no other than the gallant Surrey — left the
merchant's house on his way to London Bridge, there to take water
for Hampton, where the object of his poetic love was residing with
her father, the Earl of Kildare, whose family, according to the
learned Dr. Knott, trace their descent from the Gerald of Florence,
and are not, as is generally supposed, of Irish origin ; hence the fair
girl's romantic name of Geraldine,

No sooner had the young nobleman departed than the merchant
let fall the heavy wooden shutters which hung suspended, as it
were, by strong cords over the unglazed windows of his shop, and
drew the ponderous bolts. Before closing the outward door he

methodically lit his lamp, and then proceeded to make it fast.
Satisfied at last that all was secure, he opened the door of
communication, and entered the little dark chamber where Walter
was sitting.

Well, nephew," exclaimed the old man, with a shrewd smile,
"'■ how feel you after your voyage ? "

Somewhat fatigued, uncle," replied the young traveller, in the
same bantering tone, " since I find that such is the relationship
between us ; though I question if our fathers would not have been
more surprised^'at it than we are."

Perhaps so," said the merchant, eyeing him keenly, and
muttering something to himself about the impossibility of his
being mistaken, *' But doubtless you have a token to convince
those who are sceptical," he added.

His guest thrust his hand into his bosom, and produced the little
silver bell which Patch had given him. The usurer's doubts were
satisfied. Cordially holding out his hand, he bade him welcome
to his humble roof, and informed him that he had been prepared
for his reception by the jester, who had so minutely described his
person that he had recognised him the instant he entered the shop,
and treated him as he had, fearful lest the Earl of Surrey, who was
fc;o much about the Court, should recognise him, as he had done.

The speaker seemed astonished when his guest assured him that
the danger had been purely an imaginary one ; for that, with the
exception of a late occasion, he had never placed his foot within a
royal residence.

"No matter, my lord," replied the old man with a smile of
incredulity ; " I seek not your name or quality. The token you
have brought answers for all."

But I am no lord," said Walter, not wishing to assume a rank
to which he had no claim.

I have no right to pry into your secrets," replied the old man
with an incredulous smile, as he led the way into the interior of
the house. " Were you the poorest horse-boy that ever rode in a
noble's train, and brought that token with you, you were equally
welcome to my roof."

In the course of the evening the fugitive was joined by his old
friend Patch, who conducted himself in the house of the usurer as
if he were at home, ordering him to bring up the wines he named,
and prepare supper for himself and guest.

One word," exclaimed our hero, " to relieve my anxious heart ;
the Lady Mary "

*' Is v/cll and safe as yet."

'* As yet," repeated Walter ; "tell me ? "

Patience —-patience ! " interrupted the jester ; " I know 'tis
difficult for young blood to cm'b the restless whisperings of the
heart, its doubts and jealous fears ; but thou hast seen more than

most men of thy gossip's prudence ; with thee I have almost laid
aside my mask ; thou knowest that thou canst trust me. Give
thanks and eat," he added, as the repast was placed upon the table,
for we must ride to-night."

Where ? " demanded his companion.

To chase the moonbeams or the wild-fire's light," said Patch,
with a laugh ; " those who ride with me must ride with confidence
as blind as faith, leap at destruction, and without a doubt. Dost
question me, roysterer ? " he continued : " knowest thou not
old Mammon here and I are of earth's kings the kings, since gold
and folly rule the gore-stained earth ? "

I'll question thee no more ! " exclaimed the young man ; " thou
art a sphinx, which (Oedipus himself had never guessed — a thing to
be admired, not understood."

What, boy ! " replied the jester, " wouldst batter me with thy
humanities ? — compare me to Thebes' monster ? And yet," he
added, "the simile is just, for both were never rightly understood."

How dost thou understand it ? "

As the Greeks of old," answered the humorist : " the sphinx
is nothing more than poor humanity, as tyranny and superstition
have disfigured it ; when once its rights are known, its wrongs
redressed, the monster is destroyed, but all the god remains.
Come," he continued, rising from the table, " a cup of Cyprus
Vine ere we depart, as yellow as thy gold, old Plutus, and a
thousand times more precious. Are our horses ready ? "

They are," answered the obsequious merchant, at the same
time pouring the costly wine into two small silver cups which he
handed Patch and his guest.

Success to our enterprise," exclaimed the former as he drained
the cup, " and now then to horse. Keep careful watch," Fie added,
that we wait not an instant on our return."

After seeing that his companion as well as himself were well
armed, they quitted the mansion of their host by the back part of
the house, and mounted two horses, which they found waiting for
them. The jester led a third one by the rein. It was a gloomy
night ; the rain fell in torrents as they set out, but gradually
subsided ere they reached their journey's end, which Walter
found, to his surprise, to be the palace of the king at Greenwich.
Following the example of his guide, he fastened his steed to a tree
at the outskirt of the park, and followed him cautiously to a small
pavilion, situated at the end of the terrace, where but a few days
since he had been presented to the king, and where he last beheld
the object of his passion. It was evident that the isolated
chamber was inhabited, or that an inmate was expected, for lights
streamed through the richly-stained Avindow in the chamber above,
and cast party-coloured lays upon the sward where they were
stand ingr.

Thank Heaven, we are in time ! " exclaimed the jester.

In time for what ? "

Thou wilt see. Follow me to the terrace ; but, above all, be
silent."

Walter did as he was directed. They had not ensconced
themselves more than an hour behind a clump of shrubs, when they
beheld a man muffled in an ample mantle, and preceded by a page
bearing a torch, quit the palace, and direct his steps towards the
pavilion. From his burly port, they knew it was the king. As
soon as he entered. Patch quitted the concealment, and hastening
to the door, securely fastened it by a contrivance which he had
brought with him for the purpose.

'• Now, then, to the front of the pavilion," he whispered ; " not a
moment is to be lost."

What mean you ? "

The heiress of Stanfieid is in that temple of iniquity with the
king."

Walter needed no further inducement ; his very heart seemed to
be on fire ; the grass scarcely bent beneath the elastic pressure of
his tread. As soon as they were beneath the windows. Patch drew
a ladder from some bushes, which our hero hastily ascended. Ashe
reached the topmost stave, a shriek fell upon his ear. With a
giant's strength he dashed open the casement, and leaped into the
chamber, and found the orphan struggling with the king.

Saved ! " she exclaimed, as she cast herself upon his neck ;
Walter, you have indeed preserved me fi'om perdition ! "

The baffled Henry absolutely foamed with rage and disappointment,
for he was unarmed. Yet, relying on his great personal
strength, he seemed at one moment inclined to brave the contest,
which Walter perceiving, drew his sword.

Back, tyrant ! " said the young man, sternly, at the same time
bringing the point of his weapon to a level with his breast ; " one
step nearer, and I forget thou art my sovereign, as thou hast long
since forgotten the ties of honour, knighthood, and humanity."

Slave ! " muttered Henry, " down at my feet — crouch for thy
beggar's life ! Let me but raise my voice "

And thy last cry shall follow it ! " interrupted the young man.
Thy hot blood stains my sword ; why should I hesitate ? " he
added ; " why spare the wolf who knows no touch of mercy ? "

He is thy king," whispered the orphan. " Stain not thy soul
with treason ; leave him to Heaven and his conscience."

At this moment Patch appeared upon the summit of the ladder,
and motioned to them that it was time to depart. Hastily passing
the rescued maiden toward the window, Walter stood upon his
guard, between her and the king, whilst she descended. Several
times Henry essayed to speak, but passion held him silent. In his
mind he resolved, the instant the intruder should follow the

example of his intended victim, to raise an alarm and cause them to
be pursued. The young man he destined for the rack and cord, the
orphan for his infamous embrace.

Scarcely had these thoughts revolved within his head, than Patch
once more mounted to the window sill, and whispered to his
companion to descend.

What, ho ! Treason ! " exclaimed the monarch, as our hero placed
his foot on the window-sill.

His further words were, silenced by Patch, who hastily cast a
small ball into the Avindow, which burst as it fell, and filled the
chamber with a dense vapour ; — in a moment the excited monarch
sank senseless upon the lioor.

You have killed him," whispered Walter, as they reached the
ground.

"Small fear of that," replied the jester, "and even if I had,
monarch as he is, he would have been lawfully judged and executed.
I told you," he added, "we should one day bless the chance
which made us the leech's heritor. You see my words come
true."

As quickly as possible the three fugitives gained their horses, and
never drew rein until they were safely housed with the friendly
merchant in Lombard-street.

CHAPTER XII.

'Tis sweet to roam with those we love,

When the pretty stars are peeping,
Like angels watching from above,

But at distance kindly keeping.

"The Venetian."

The next morning even those who were accustomed to the
capricious temper of the king were astonished at the brutal ferocity
which he displayed towards all who approached him. The
adventure and disappointment of the preceding night rankled
deeply in his revengeful soul, and in his fury he mentally
threatened destruction not only to the hero of it, but to the
innocent object of his licentious passion. Private orders, sealed
with his own signet, were despatched to the governors of the
principal sea-ports, giving a minute description of the persons
both of Walter and the heiress of Cranfield, and commanding
their arrest should they attempt to quit the kingdom. As for
Patch, he had been so carefully disguised and kept so far in
the background, that his share in the transaction was not likely
to be suspected.

Leo seems in an amiable mood this morning," whispered the

last-named personage to the poet, Sir Thomas Wyat, who stood
conversing with him in one of the deep bay windows of the
presence-chamber at Greenwich, where the jester had attended
Wolsey in his usual visit to the king, ^'At least," added the
speaker, " if we may judge from the scared looks of the jackal.
See how he sneaks from the royal den ; perhaps he has
encountered the fangs of the regal brute as well as his growl."

This observation was occasioned by the crest-fallen appearance of
Sir John Perrot, who issued from the king's closet with the air
of a man not quite assured whether or no his head still sat upon
his shoulders. The humbled courtier cast a reproachful glance at
Patch as he passed the window where he and his companions
stood. To the latter it seemed to deprecate the jester's usually
sarcastic humour, who, however, perfectly understood it, and
returned it by a triumphant smile, for he feared not the minion's
treachery — he was completely in his power.

Why, Sir John," he exclaimed, advancing from the window to
meet him, " from thy woe-begone countenance one would imagine
there was an end to all intrigue at Court — that honesty was to be
henceforth the language of the day, or that, like a whipped scholar,
thou wert pouting over a new lesson. Courage, man," he added,
bitterly ; " let Courts become as honest as they may, there will still
be found a use for such as thee."

Thou art a hard taskmaster. Patch," replied the knight, in an
under-tone ; " a man may as well give hand to Satan, as take
service with thee. The king," he added, " is furious."

■ More so than you expected ? " coolly demanded the jester.

Hath threatened to disgrace me," continued the knight.

Impossible," said his tormentor, in a tone of undisguised
contempt, which made the courtier writhe, for he perfectly
understood the speaker's meaning : " not even Henry's power
can accomplish that ; despot as he is, you may defy him there.
Kings, like other men," he added, " fail at impossibilities."

At least," faltered Sir John, blushing with shame and anger
as he spoke, " it can affect my life. This very hour his highness
swore to trample me as mire beneath his feet, should he but prove
my treachery."

Indeed ! " replied the jester, with a quiet laugh, at the same
time turning on his heel and leaving him, " fortune favours thee
in thy disgrace, for, like the worthless fish cast back into the lake,
thou'lt find thy element."

The knight, enable to conceal his mortification at the sarcasm,
which conscience told him he merited, hastened from the presence
revolving in his mind whether it were not wisest to
confess all and trust to Henry's mercy, than to continue the slave
of such an ungracious task-master as the jester. Reflection,
however, soon convinced him that the bark of his tormentor was

worse tliau his bite, and he resolved to let things take their usual
course.

At this moment Henry issued from the royal closet. He was
wrapped in a long, loose gown of cloth of gold, lined with sables :
and instead of the barret or hat which Holbein has rendered
familiar to most English readers, his head was covered with a
purple velvet hood, which gave a ghastly expression to his
unusually pale features. In short, it was evident from his whole
appearance that he still felt the effects of the jester's parting gift,
Which left him for a long time senseless on the floor of the pavilion.

Where be these legates ? " he exclaimed, " these sloths of Rome
these Fabian politicians, who trust to tire our patience by delay ?
Knows my lord of York," he added, in a loud, harsh tone, " that we
have twice demanded his fair presence ? "

His eminence is in the chapel with Campeggio, sire," faltered
Sir Henry Denny, who, more perhaps than any courtier present,
trembled at the ungovernable temper of the king.

'Sdeath ! go tell the red-caps we attend them here, and by their
own appointing. The sun is bright, the air of heaven blows keenly.
We would not lose our match for twenty times their bidding Go,
Suffolk," he added in a kinder tone, turning to his brother-in-law,
"order our train to mount ; and tell Le March we'll fly the Norway
falcon our sister Margaret sent us."

The duke bowed, and left the presence-chamber to execute the
orders he had received.

No one knew better than the infuriated monarch that both
Wolsey and Campeggio had been above three hours waiting to
obtain an interview ; for, in fact, it was by his own private orders
that they were thus discourteously received, for virtually their
mission was at an end, since an inhibition had been received to
stop their proceedings as legates. The Pope, who was devoted to
Katherine's nephew, the Emperor Charles, had, however, with his
usual duplicity, exempted the king from the penalties which the
inhibition imposed on all such as should abet the process of the
divorce. The politics of Clement Iii. were most disastrous to the
Holy See ; they lost eventually three kingdoms to its triple crown.
'Tis well, my lord ! " exclaimed Henry, at the same time
contemptuously crushing in his hand the Papal indulgence which
Campeggio, in the hope of soothing his wrath, had presented him
with. " Since Rome denies us justice, we must seek a remedy
within ourselves. Your mission ended as it began, in bitter
mockery and deceit, albeit in that we blame not you. We will
not longer detain you at our Court. Your brother of York," he
added, for the first time during the interview casting a cold glance
on Wolsey, "will order your departure with all honour. Farewell !
St. George and our Lady speed you ! "

Without waiting for a reply, or deigning further salutation to

either of the legates, the king turned upon his heel and entered
the royal closet to prepare for his morning ride, calling lustily to
Sir Henry Norris to see the falconers were in readiness. . The
I mortified churchmen, humbled and confused by their reception,
retired to the lodging of Wolsey amid the sneers of the courtiers,
who already anticipated the haughty favourite's downfall.

"The period of your master's favour has arrived, friend Patch,"
whispered Sir Thomas Wyat, as they crossed the courtyard of the
palace ; " the bark of Peter is in peril."

It has weathered"' replied the jester carelessly, " a rougher
storm than this ; the tempest is never so near exhausted as when
it rages loudest."

Thou art poetical in thy description, man : sortie hath
misplaced thee ; she should have made a minstrel, not a jester, of
thee ; thou hast a poet's soul, if not his verse."

His companion fixed his eyes upon him with an expression
half-mocking, half-serious, as he replied in his own quaint style,

Are there no poets, then, but such as deal in rhyme ? Tut,
man ! they are but the scholars of their art. Those who can play
with human passion — oppose the fox's cunning to the lion's
strength — trace even through crime the fine connecting link, the
golden thread which holds humanity in one vast whole — or touch
the secret key-notes of the heart, making deep melodies or fearful
discords — stich are your poets ; those who write are gamesters."

A lesson ! and in mine own art ! " exclaimed the knight,
astonished at the new phase in his strange companion's character.
Thou art a very protean personage. I find as many changes in
thee "

As in thy mistress's humour or dame Fortune's smiles," said the
jester, finishing the sentence for him ; " but fare thee well. I must
to my master — you, doubtless, to the hawking with the king.
Beware," he added, With a significant look, " how you cross the
royal falconer in his sport. Should you ride towards Hevei', loose
not the jesses of your bird — cast not your hawk that way."

Hever Castle was the residence of Anne Boleyn, for Avhoni the
X>oet's passion was more than suspected bathe Court,

Sir Thomas understood the hint, ad, nodding adieti to the
friendly giver, walked musingly away.

On entering the cardinal's chamber, Patch found his eminence
pacing up and down the apartment alone ; the courtiers who
generally thronged his ante-chamber had already deserted it in
anticipation of his disgrace. The usually flushed features of the
churchman were pale, and it was evident, from the compressed
lips, that he was struggling to subdue an emotion which, once
given way to, would, like a torrent, bear everything before it,

Alone, my lord ! " said the jester, v.ith a well-affected expression
of surprise.

Doth that astonish thee ? " exclaimed Wolsey, bitterly ; " the
sun hath set, and friends are, like shadows, seen only when it
shines. This worse than folly, this madness of the Court of Rome,
joined with the king's hot passion for Anne Boleyn, hath ruined
me. I have touched the climax of my greatness, and must,
perforce, descend. My enemies prevail at last."

One way," observed the person whom the speaker had so
singularly chosen for his confidant, " remains to crush them, and
knit thyself yet closer to the capricious Henry's heart."

Name it," said the astonished churchman, surprised that the
speaker should have found a clue to escape the danger at which
evuii his experience felt appalled.

Your eminence is still legate ? " demanded Patch.

Thou knowest I am."

*' And can convoke the prelates and the clergy ? "

Assuredly."

Convoke them, then ; and, despite Rome's threats, pronounce
for the divorce. Leave Henry's sword and Clement's crosier to
decide the rest."

It were, indeed, one way," slowly repeated Wolsey, more like
a man replying to himself than answering another ; " but it would
cast a brand whose conflagration ages would not extinguish.
Heresy even now is rife within the land."

What matter," observed the jester, " so you escaped the flames ?
As for the brand you speak of, it is cast already — Henry and Rome
are twain at this moment."

It would stain my purple," added the cardinal.

Cast the shadow of the imperial rag aside ; men are beginning
to hold it at its value."

Destroy all hopes of the tiara which Clement's age and failing
years hold out ? "

Dreams," interrupted his counsellor, " dreams, which France
and Spain alike have fostered only to deceive. France fears ;
Charles hates as well as fears thee. As a subject already hast thou
menaced the world — as a sovereign thou wouldst command it.
Rivals as they are, they would unite on this one point against thee.
The tiara," he continued, scornfully, " it is the ignis fatuus which
leads thy steps astray, and blinds thy sight where thou shouldst
see most clearly. Why, like a wayward child, pine for a bauble
placed beyond thy reach ? "

Dream though it be," exclaimed the churchman, rising from
his cushioned seat and pacing the chamber, " it is a glorious one,
and crowned my sleep from boyhood. It cheered the obscure
student in his patient toil — urged the aspiring statesman on to
greatness — armed him against the nation's murmurs and the
noble's scorn. I will not turn my footsteps from the path," he
added, with a determination which showed how deeply the

ambitious hope was wedded to his soul, " though Death, clad in
his grisly terrors, bar my passage, pointing with mocking finger
to a timeless grave."

Heaven grant," said his hearer, disappointed perhaps that his
counsel was not followed, " that Henry's wrath leave it a bloodless
one."

"Think'st thou," he demanded, in a voice so low that it sounded
like a whisper, " he would dare to violate Rome's purple and lay a
sacrilegious hand upon our life ? "

Henry is fond of innovation," replied Patch, in his usual quiet
tone ; " the novelty might tempt him."

There at least," said the tottering favourite, " I may defy him.
Thanks to thy friendship, I am armed against that last extreme of
fate ; even at the scaffold's foot the jester's gift should balk his
malice."

He raised his jewelled hand as he spoke, and displayed the
poisoned ring which Patch and Walter had found in the cabinet of
the Italian, Adam, after the execution of Sir John de Corbey.
The faithful donor smiled mournfully as he beheld it. Perhaps he
already saw that the hour was nearer than the speaker imagined.

Away," continued the speaker ; "join thou this hawking party.
Have ears for every word which falls from Henry's lips — eyes for
each glance ; a straw, the thistle's floating down, will show which
way the wind blows ; above all, take heed if he rides towards
Hever — there lies our chiefs danger."

With a nod of intelligence, which intimated that his intentions
and wishes were perfectly understood, the strangely selected confidant
quitted the apartment, which Wolsey continued to pace in
thoughtful silence long after his departure, pondering over the
storm which menaced him and the bold advice he had received.

It cannot be," he murmured to himself, " that the fabric I have
reared, the hopes for which I toiled and sinned, should fade in air
like childhood's fairy dream. Yet why should I regret it ? For what
is rank or state ? — a tinsel robe which fools and knaves alone are
dazzled by. The wise man knows its worthlessness and scorns it.
But power," he slowly added, " is earth's real substantial good —
life's only pui-pose and reality ; as drowning wretches clutch at
straws, I'll hold it to the last."

With these words, which illustrate, perhaps, alike the strength
and weakness of the great man's character, he reseated himself,
and began to compile from the papers on the table a list of his vast
wealth, with which he vainly hoped to bribe the king when the
impending crisis should arrive. Whilst the falling favourite is
thus occupied, let us follow our old friend Patch, who had joined
the royal party.

Hawking or falconry in the reign of Henry VIII., and even to a
much later period, had this distinctive character from the other

VOL. II. 2

pastimes of the age — it could only be practised by persons of rank.
The possession of a hawk was considered as one of the ensigns of
nobility, and those who were entitled to be the owners of this bird
generally travelled with them, took them into the field of battle,
and refused to part with them even when taken prisoner. No
action was deemed so disgraceful to a nobleman as the surrendering
of his hawk or dog.

The loud shouts of the party, as they dashed along the banks of
the Thames, following the falconers who rode before to rouse the
birds, directed Patch where to follow them. He was no timid
horseman, and half an hoar's hard riding brought him up with
the royal sportsman. Just as he reached the ground a stately heron
had been started from the low sedgy banks where it had been
feeding, and with repeated gyrations rose till it appeared like a
speck in the clear blue sky above it. This was the critical moment
for the sportsman to display his skill by assuring himself that his
falcon had seen its victim before he loosed the jesses and launched
it from his hand.

Who ! lie til ho ! " cried Henry, as he cast his bird — a
magnificent Norway falcon, the gift of his sister, the Queen of
Scotland, and which he had named after the donor. " Now,
Margaret, do thy best ; by St. Hubert, but 'tis a royal bird," he
continued, as deliberated falcon rose majestically in pursuit of
its prey ; " how steadily it rises on the wing ! Now, heron, wing
thy way! "

The hunted bird had evidently caught sight of its pursuer, for
instead of attempting to rise higher, it wheeled round and made
way towards a grove of lofty pines, in which most probably its
nest was situated, and whose tall tops were visible to the sportsmen,
even from the flat marshy ground where they were riding.
Dashing his spurs deep into his horse's sides, Henry started off to
follow the aerial chase. Many a gay halloo was given,iand many a
merry laugh rang on the banks of silver Thames, as the nobles and
courtiers followed in the wake of their excited master.

Fly, Margaret ! " shouted the king ; " a cast of golden balls if
thou strikes down the heron before he reaches wood. Hip, ho,
who ! " he continued, his excitement every moment increasing ;
he gains upon him — now the long shanks sees he cannot reach
the wood, and rises on his wing again."

To have watched the chase one might really have thought that
the gallant falcon had both heard and understood the encouraging
cry of his royal master, for it had redoubled its efforts and so far
gained upon its flying victim, that perceiving the combat inevitable,
the persecuted heron had once more changed its lateral
course and risen on its wing. Its pursuer followed it.

Rise, falcon ! rise, heron ! " shouted the Duke of Suffolk, who
was an enthusiastic . admirer of the sport, and who, together

with the king and principal personages of the party, drew their
horses into a circle, as the contest once more became confined t©
that portion of the heavens directly over their heads.

Fly, cardinal ! rise, king ! " shouted a voice from a distaste;
group of falconers and courtiers who were gathered at a distance •
There was an instant pause in the laugh and vociferation of Whose
nearest the monarch, not knowing how Henry would approve the
daring jest. For a few moments his brow was clouded ; but a quiet
smile gradually, and apparently without his wishing it, appeared
upon his lip. Those who watched it and knew him intimately
saw that the fate of his favourite was sealed, and many a heart beat
the lighter.

Well, my lords," he exclaimed, bursting into a good-humoured
laugh, as if unable longer to control himself, " dare you refuse the
challenge ? Shrewsbury, a hundred pieces on my gallant falcon
and a glove for thy lady — is it a wager ? "

A royal one, sire," replied the politic noble, bowing at the offer,
and I accept it."

Dost thou ?" cried Henry ; "why, then, fly, cardinal ! rise, king !'^

No sooner had the words passed the lips of the speaker than they
were joyously echoed by nearly every noble present, for there were
few who did not secretly desire the downfall of the churchman.
The faithful Patch listened to them in silence, for which he was
roughly reproved by the obsequious Earl of Shrewsbury.

"Why, thou disloyal knave," exclaimed the earl, "refuse t®
repeat the war-cry of the king ? "

I am no courtier," replied the jester, scornfully,

Thou art an insolent traitor," retorted the haughty noble, wht3>
felt the bitter satire of the speaker more than he cared to show 5
for during his prosperity he had been one of Wolsey's most
obsequious worshippers, which no one knew better than the
faithful fool.

And thou a noble weathercock," answered Patch, in his usual
unmoved tone, " a thing to show which way the wind of royal
favour sits."

What dispute is this ? " demanded Henry, riding up to the
group, followed by Suffolk, Surrey, and his immediate attendants,
Wrangling in our presence, knave ? "

"A slight dispute between my brother of Shrewsbury and
myself," said the jester, coolly. " He wears your majesty's bells, I
the cardinal's. We could not agree as to the sound ; each fool
preferred his own."

A general laugh followed the explanation ; for, strange as suck
license would now appear, the jester in those days vas a privileged
person, who might address even to a crowned head with impunity
reproof or advice, which the gravest statesman or councillor in ths:
kingdom would hesitate to offer.

"Thou art a merry knave," observed the king, joining in the
mirth, "and I believe a faithful one. Wilt thou take service with
me?"

No, gossip, no," replied the jester, gravely shaking his head.
"Why, to make room for one, displace so many? Besides," he
added, " I am in my humour something like Minerva's bird, as fits
our state and wisdom."

How so ? " demanded Henry.

I quit not a ruined house."

There was a tone of melancholy reproof in the voice of the
speaker, which awoke a kindlier sentiment towards his master in
the breast of the king, and alarmed the courtiers for the success of
their schemes to displace him, Suffolk saw the impression, and
hastened to remove it.

Look, sire ! " he exclaimed ; " see how royally your falcon
merits its name — a pair of spurs to a dozen nobles that he gears his
bird."

Not without feeling the heron's beak," replied the jester, fixing
his keen grey eyes upon the contest ; " see how nobly he watches
for the swoop — it will be fatal to them both."

The eyes of the speaker and the monarch encountered as he
spoke. They understood each other.

Be it so," said Henry ; " it is too late to stay it."

The falcon, as usual, had soared and soared till it had gained a
height considerably above that of its victim, whose long neck was
turned back, watching for the pounce which the pursuer was sure
to make, and which, if once avoided, generally gave the heron an
opportunity to escape, as it was made with such violence that the
descending bird could neither stop midway nor recover its wing
till some minutes after. Every eye was fixed upon the, royal bird
as it made its fatal swoop, and the cry of " Fly, cardinal ! " was
again mockingly repeated ; but, to the disappointment of all, save
Patch, the cardinal or heron disdained to fly ; but extending its
long, sharp beak like a lance, it received its enemy upon the point,
literally impaling it by the force of its descent. The falcon,
however, although wounded, was not subdued ; but, fixing its
talons in the breast of its adversary, it clung with tenacity to its
conqueror, which it struck with its powerful beak repeatedly upon
the head. Both fell together. Henry was the first to dismount to
relieve his favourite from its position, in the hope that it might be
only slightly wounded. The hope, however, was vain — both heron
and falcon were dead.

I would sooner," exclaimed Henry. " have given a thousand
marks than this should have happened. Poor Margaret ! thy flight
has been a short one."

But a victorious one," observed the Duke of Suffolk ; " its
enemy has fallen with it."

To your pleasure, gentlemen," said the king, gloomily — " to
your pleasure. I'll hawk no more to-day. Suffolk and Surrey
will ride with me, the rest dispose themselves as their caprice and
humour lead them till the banquet hour."

This was the general intimation given when the speaker wished
to be alone, or to start on one of those amatory expeditions in
which he so frequently indulged, and in which his brother-in-law
and another favoured noble were generally his companions.

How far is it. Sir Thomas, to Hever Castle ? " demanded Patch
of the poet knight, who, like most of the courtiers, had drawn rein,
not to follow even by inadvertence the same route as the king ;
thinks thou a good horseman might be there by dusk ? "

"Undoubtedly," replied the party addressed, trying to look
unconcerned.

I will bet thee a rose noble to a flask of sack that Henry sups
there," continued the jester.

If he does," replied Sir Thomas, turning pale, but trying to
appear unconcerned, " what is that to me ? "

To thee ? " repeated the querist ; " why, what indeed ! If the
king loved fifty Mistress Boleyn, what would it be to thee, since
thou hast no inkling of affection there — no idle dreams such as
boys muse on, when spring's sweet breath woos them to wander
by the rippling stream, or 'neath the hawthorn's budding shade H
To thee, indeed ! — who could suspect thee of such folly ? "

The unhappy poet, who felt all the sarcasm of the jester's words,
winced like a man stung by a hornet ; indeed, at times the jester's
tongue was not less venomous, though this time he thought the
caution was perhaps kindly meant,

Thanks, friend Patch," said Sir Thomas ; " I understand thee —
the warning is well-timed. I know the danger of crossing the
lion's path, and shall not ride to Hever."

With these words he turned his horse aside, and plunged into the
woods which skirted the river. His companion remained for a
few moments gazing in silence after him. He knew the human
heart too well to trust its weakness or its promise.

"And I," he exclaimed, as the white plume of the knight
disappeared amid the trees, " prophesy that I must ride hard to
reach Hever before thee. What so deceitful as a lover's resolution,
or a woman's promise ? "

With these reflections, the jester gave rein, and pursued his way
to the residence of the beautiful Anne Boleyn. Hever Castle was
erected by William de Hever, a Norman baron, who under Edward
III. obtained the king's license to embattle his manor house, as
well as to have free warren within his demesne. It is situated on
the western border of the county of Kent, hard by Penshurst. His
two daughters and co-heiresses conveyed it by marriage to the
families of Cobham and Brocas. The former, who had acquired

^hQ whole estate by purchase, resold it to Sir Geoffrey Boleyn, a
wealthy mercer of London, and Lord Mayor of the City in the
thirty-seventh year of the reign of Henry VI. The wealthy
merchant was the great grandfather of the beautiful Anne whom
Wyat and Henry both passionately loved.

The moon was shining brightly down the broad avenue which
led to the principal entrance, when a horseman, whose foaming
steed and soiled dress showed how hard he had ridden, drew rein
at the foot of an enormous chestnut tree, whose branches shaded a
vase and statue which in the Italian style graced the bottom of the
walk.

So," he exclaimed, at the same time removing the bit from the
mouth of his good steed, " I am here the first ; more than are
invited will meet at the place of rendezvous. Should Henry
encounter Wj^at at the place of tryst, it may cool his hot impetuous
love ; if not," he added, " I must trust to the chapter of accidents.
Human folly or human passion will not fail to supply me with
some clue."

We need not tell our readers that the speaker was their old
acquaintance Patch.

Twisting the rein round the neck of the animal, he released it,
and the well-trained steed made its way into the underwood to
feed upon the tender herbage ; its master knew that with a whistle
he could at any moment recall him. After looking cautiously
round as if to assure himself that he was unobserved, or had not
mistaken the place, the jester climbed the chestnut tree we have
before alluded to, and cradled himself at his ease in the enormous
branches, still watching with an eager eye and an attentive ear for
any sight or sound which might indicate the approach of any of
those whom he expected. He had patiently maintained his
position for more than an hour, when a light rustling step roused
his attention. At first he deemed the sound proceeded from some
stray fawn, so lightly did the footfall break upon his ear. He was,
however, quickly undeceived ; for a graceful figure emerged from
the shade of the narrow footpath into the full moon's light ; her
veil floating in the evening breeze displayed the animated, beautiful
features of the wearer, as, with a timid step, she advanced towards
the vase beneath the tree to deposit a letter under the marble
pedestal, starting at every rustling leaf or nameless sound the
forest shades sighed forth.

"Good ! " murmured the watchful jester to himself, "the game
begins. Anne Boleyn has well commenced her part ; Wyat and
Henry next."

No sooner had the maiden deposited her letter than she retired
towards the castle by the narrow footpath, f eax'f ul of being observed
if she ventured in the open avenue, which the full moon rendered
almost as clear as the light of dav. The moment she was gone

Patch nimbly descended from his hiding place and secured the
precious document, which he hid within his breast, for something
whispered to him that it would one day be useful. He was seldom
wrong.

Scarcely had he regained his former secure position than a second
horseman approached, who, however, took the precaution of dismounting
at a considerable distance, and fastened his steed to a
tree — it was the poet and once favoured lover of Anne Boleyn
Sir Thomas Wyat, whose muse, although scarcely worthy of that
honour, has been coupled with the gallant Surrey's in his
impassioned lays to Geraldine.

Taking his beck from his shoulder, he hastily touched a few
chords by way of prelude, and then accompanied himself as in &
deep manly voice he sang the following serenade : — >

The stars from heaven are peeping'

Less beautiful than thee ;
Come while the world is sleeping,

To change love's vows with me.

Come with thy bright eyes beaming',

Brightly in beauty's spell ;
Come while the earth is dreaming,

Our tale of love to tell.

• Night's holiest guards are keeping

Their vigil round thy tower ;

Then while the world is sleeping,

Sweet lady, quit thy bower.

The stars from heaven are beaming

Less beautiful than thee ;
Come while the earth is dreaming

To change love's vows with me.

An' this piping win her not," murmured Patch. " I worm
advise the knight never to pinch beck more : for, to do him
justice, he does it daintily."

The skill of the songster was not thrown away ; the step of the
maiden again rustled through the wood, and in a few moments'.
Anne Bole;^m stood in the avenue, and the enamoured Wyat at h»3i
feet.

Good ! " said the jester ; " an' Henry comes, all may yet fc
well."

CHAPTER XIII.

Once more I behold thee ! " exclaimed Sir Thomas Wyat,
passionately kissing the yielding hand of Anne Boleyn ; " once
more I hear the music of that voice whose melting tone haunts
e'en my sleeping hours, making rich melodies in dreams. Anne,"
he continued, fixing his eyes with eager fondness upon the blushing

girl, " mine is not a love to dazzle or destroy thee ; the throne to
which I would raise thee is a faithful heart which only beats for
thee. The homage I would surround thee with, its every thought
and wish. Were I a king, by Heaven I should only prize my
crown but as it rendered me more worthy thee."

Nay, now you mock me," replied the inconstant maiden, whose
love towards the knight, since her retirement to Hever Castle, had
suddenly returned, for she deemed the capricious Henry's passion
extinct. " 'Tis true I have been dazzled, but not misled ; my head
may have turned giddy with the honeyed flatteries of Henry's
tongue, but not my heart — that has been constant to thee."

Say'st thou, sweet one ? " whispered the enamoured poet,
gently circling her waist with his trembling arm. " Oh ! repeat
the blest assurance ; let me gaze in thy bright eyes as thy dear lips
pronounce it. Nay, thou shalt not deny me," he added, pressing
her closer to his manly breast, "for every word will fall like
precious balm upon my wounded heart, healing the pangs of
jealousy and love."

Must I repeat it ? " demanded Anne, coquettishly raising her
eyes to his, but quickly dropping them beneath the burning ardour
of his gaze, which brought the blush into her conscious cheek.

"An' thou really lowest me," replied Sir Thomas, intoxicated
with the brilliant glance. " Love is exacting in its privileges, and
I have been too long debarred from mine."

Well, then," said the future queen, with a sincerity which at
that time, perhaps, she really felt, " I repeat it : the king might
win my ear, for women seldom frown when told that they are
fair ; but never, Wyat, by our early vows, breathed in the deep
confidence of mutual love, never hath he touched my heart."

I knew it was ambition," muttered Patch, who from his
position in the chestnut-tree overheard the conversation. "Oh,
woman ! how like an angel to those who know ye not ! "

And that heart ? " exclaimed her lover, sinking upon his knee
and gazing upon her as if life and death hung on the words which
followed from her lips.

Is, as it ever hath been," she continued, " thine, and thine
only. But why this cruel doubt ? — have you not read my letter ? "

What letter ? " demanded her enraptured lover.

What letter, ingrate ! " repeated Anne ; " why the one I placed
but an hour since for thee beneath the pedestal of yonder vase, our
usual hiding-place ; hast thou not found it ? "

The knight rushed to the well-known spot, and searched impatiently,
and, as our readers are aware, in vain, for Patch had
already secured it.

"Alas ! " he exclaimed, " 'tis gone ! "

Gone ! " said his mistress ; and a cold shudder ran through her
frame as she echoed the word, as if already she anticipated the

fearful retribution it would one day cause to fall upon her. " impossible
! I placed it there but now. Surely you jest"'

'' The wind, perhaps, hath caught it," observed her lover ; " but
fear not, sweet ; I will remain till daylight, and search each bush
to find it. Tell me," he added, tenderly, " what did it contain .? "

The assurance of my love," replied the troubled maiden, with
a sigh, " and my indifference to the king. Should it fall into evil
hands it might work my ruin."

How so ? "

Henry might forgive an injury, but ne'er an insult to his
vanity. Oh ! 'tis a cruel nature ! Selfish in all things, doubly soin
love."

She is warned," muttered the jester to himself ; " if she falls,
her blood be on her head."

Fear not, love," whispered Sir Thomas ; " he must come armed
in more than mortal terrors that would injure thee. Once mine,
king though the tyrant be, I would protect thee against his malice.
Besides," he added, " there are other climes fairer than England's
soil, where faithful hearts might make this earth a paradise of love ;
e'en there where thy young days were passed — the sunny land of
France."

True," sighed Anne, not without a pang, as her ambitious
dream of greatness vanished at the thought.

At this moment the gleam of distant torches was seen flitting
through the woods, and voices heard calling on the fair fugitive byname."


Good ! " muttered the concealed spy ; " it is the king. Now,
then, to test her promises."

Fly ! " exclaimed Anne Boleyn, " I am called ; let them not
find thee here."

The speaker's sister-in-law, afterwards the infamous Lady
Rochfort, rushed from the wood, and casting her arms round
her fair relative, whispered a word which flushed her cheek,
but whether with hope or fear it were ditRcult to tell.

It is the king," whispered Wyat, fixing his eyes expressively
upon her.

True," said his mistress ; " he must not find thee here — my
hitherto unsullied name were compromised."

There was a candour in the avowal which would have disarmed
any suspicions except a jealous lover's. Sir Thomas trembled at
the word, but hesitated not to obey her.

Farewell," he cried, imprinting a kiss upon her burning cheek ;
remember that my life is in thy keeping. Heed not the tyrant's
promises or threats ; love watches over thee."

The agitated knight hastily plunged into the underwood and
disappeared, but not, as his mistress thought, out of hearing ; for,
creeping cautiously round to the back of the tree where Patch had

ensconced himself, he cautiously began climbing the giant trunk.
"^ Good," muttered the jester ; " the plot thickens, the scene grows
interesting."

"Art mad, to cast thy fortune from thee ? " demanded the artful
confidante. " Quick, and seat thyself ; 'tis well, Anne, thou hast
wiser heads to screen thy folly from the jealous king."

Although surprised and confused, the maiden, with all a woman's
tact, did as she was directed, and cast herself upon the seat close to
the friendly tree where her lover by this time had hid himself.
Her sister, more versed in intrigue than herself, hastily caught up
the beck which Wyat had left upon the sward, and, reclining at
her feet, began to touch the chords. The sound soon drew the
party to the spot.

Who art thou, villain ? " demanded the astonished poet, as he
felt the form of Patch reclining on one of the massive branches
where he intruded himself — " a spy or thief ? "

"Whichever thou wilt," coolly whispered the party thus
apostrophised ; " but be patient, now — calm thy hot temper, lest
it cost thy head. Henry loves not those who poach upon his
eights ; besides, thou now canst test thy mistress's faith, if it be
worth the trial. King's seldom woo in vain."
hi" Patch ! " said the astonished knight, recognising his voice,
for he was too much shaded to permit him to distinguish his
features.

Silence," said the jester, drily ; " do as thou wilt with thy own
Se, but risk not mine. 'Tis a strange whim, perhaps, but I prefer
Settling mid the leaves to hanging from the branches."

A cordial pressure of the hand was the only reply to the speaker's
well-meant caution. In an instant other thoughts and other
feelings wrung his heart, for Henry was at the feet of his fickle
mistress, who started with well-affected surprise as her royal lover
knelt before her.

The convenient sister-in-law, seeing that her task was ended,
discreetly withdrew to a suitable distance, taking, however, the
poet's beck with her ; it might have told a tale,

Henry ! " exclaimed Anne ; " that is," she added, pretending to
.recover from her confusion, " the king."

Henry," said the monarch ; " call me Henry, your own true,
devoted Henry, who casts aside the splendour of his state, the
world's stale homage, and his flatterers' praise, to taste an hour of
pure delight with thee."

"Rise, your grace ; I have listened to these honoured words
?before, and once, like a weak child, because my heart wished them
true, believed them. My folly has been punished — in my banishment
I have in part atoned it."

Banishment ! " repeated the monarch.

Row else am I to consider my forced retirement to Hever

Castle ? " continued the fair speaker, whose ambitions hopes
returned with the presence of her suitor.

"But as love's guise, to hide its secret purpose," replied the
amorous king. " Perchance, too, as a trial of thy faith ; for I would
be loved not for my crown, but for myself."

As the fair Maid of Cranfield doubtless loves thee ! " exclaimed
his listener in a tone of well-acted reproach. " Oh ! Henry ! Henry !
wast not enough to win a hopeless love — shadow my girlhood's
years, but thou must cast it like a worthless flower aside, crushing
my heart with jealousy and shame ? "

Tut, tut ! " whispered the delighted wooer, whose vanity was
gratified at the well-acted passion of his aspiring mistress ; " thou
hast been bred too long at Courts not to see through a flimsy veil
like this. The Maid of Cranfield," he repeated, " a pale-faced chit,
whom we selected purposely to blind observant eyes, and not to
wound thy trusting nature. Thou wilt scarce persuade me now
that thou wert really jealous of a child like her — it were too
flattering to my love."

Anne Boleyn smiled upon him ; she was too politic not to be
convinced.

Heavens ! " whispered Wyat ; " can such treachery dwell in
woman's form ? "

Where else should it dwell ? " replied his companion in the
same under-tone ; " the devil, when he tempts mankind, is sure to
wear an angel's face."

*' Come," said the enamoured Henry ; " the dews of night are
falling fast, and the keen air may chill thee ; let us to the castle —
the morning, fair one, sees thee again the light and joy of England's
Court."

Alas ! " sighed Anne Boleyn coquettishly ; " the Court, your
grace, is not the place for me."

Thy place there," exclaimed the king, " soon shall be the
highest ; we have found the way to cut this Gordian knot without
the aid of Rome. Patience a little, sweet one, and thine enemies
shall fall like reeds before thee."

There is one, sire," replied the maiden, " no storm can shake ;
one who has thriven so lordly in your favour that his pride and
state shadow the throne, and to vulgar eyes make e'en your glories
dim. Why recall me when a word from Wolsey will at any time
banish me from your presence and your heart ? Henry rules
England, as men say, but Wolsey rules the king."

Thou think'st so ? " said the monarch, knitting his brow, for
he was becoming impatient at being schooled even by so fair a
speaker.

I repeat, your grace, but what all who love their king affirm."

To-morrow witnesses his downfall, May-bird," whispered the
amorous monarch, fearful lest even the passing wind should catch

the important secret ; " wilt thou now refuse to be present at thine
enemy's disgrace ? Suffolk and Norfolk, this very night, received
the mission to demand from him the seal of England in our royal
name. Art thou content ? "

Content," repeated his mistress, looking into his eyes with a
glance such as she had so lately cast on Wyat ; *' I am most
happy. Teach me, Henry," she added in her siren voice, " to bear
this most unlooked-for bliss ; my heart will break else with its
conscious joy."

A kiss, whose echo nearly drove the distracted knight from his
ambush, sealed the monarch's promise and Anne Boleyn's fate.
On a signal from the king, the torch-bearers, who, together with
Suffolk and Sir Thomas Boleyn, had remained at a convenient
distance, surrounded the happy pair, and escorted Henry and his
inconstant mistress to Hever Castle.

No sooner had the cortege disappeared than Patch and his
companion descended from their place of concealment. The
countenance of the knight was pale with conflicting passion.
Scorn, love, and jealousy, by turns, assumed their fearful empire
over him. He was like a man suddenly awakened from a fearful
dream, doubtful of the reality of the scene of perjury and deceit
he had witnessed.

Henceforth," he cried, " let woman's promises be writ in sand
or, better still, in water — for they are fools who trust them. Who
would believe that such deceit dwelt in so fair a form ? "

All," said the jester, " who have studied them. They little
know the world who deem the gaudiest casket hides the richest
gem. Pshaw ! man," he added, " let not thy heart dissolve in bitterness
; thou art not the first who hast mistaken tinsel for pure gold
the counterfeit for the pure gem ; choose again, but choose with
more discretion."

Never," replied Sir Thomas ; " she was my love's first dream —
my manhood's hope. Banish me to a desert, and, despite her
falsehood, memory would find some verdant spot, and there enshrine
her image."

Is the wound so deep ? " said his companion, musingly. " Time
only can effect a cure."

*' Time ! " repeated the poet ; " will it restore a broken
heart ? "

It will bind it, boy," resumed Patch. " What ! pine like a lovesick
girl, and waste the energies of thy existence for one who coldly
sells herself for idle state — barters the vow fresh spoken on her
lips for a polluted greatness — perjures herself to gain a crown,
whose weight at last will crush her ! Weakness, folly ! "

You name it truly, yet I love her still."

Respect thyself," said the jester, at the same time giving the
customary signal to his faithful steed, which in a few moments

came bounding towards him from the neighbouring wood, " and
fate will then respect thee. Stained as earth's flowers are by the
trail of Eden's serpent, buds may yet be found untainted by the
venom of its falsehood ; but seek them not in Courts," he added,
or in the busy haunts of man. The deeper the solitude the
fresher will the plant be found. Farewell ! "

With these words the men who had been so strangely thrown
together separated — the lover to brood over the loss of his fickle
mistress, and Patch on his return to London, where our old friend
Walter and the heiress of Cranfield impatiently expected his

arrival.

*****

On the rescue of the Lady Mary from the licentious violence of
the king, she was rapidly conveyed by her two protectors to the
house of Marietti, the wealthy merchant in Lombard-street, wherefor
the first time, Walter was made acquainted with all the
mysteries of the mansion, which was connected by a low stone
passage with the large storehouses at the back, where the owner
kept the bales of foreign goods in which he dealt. In the centre
of these storehouses, three rooms were strongly built, and so carefully
protected from observation by the surrounding edifice that it
was only upon a minute survey their existence could be suspected.
A second passage, still more artfully concealed, led to a subterranean
chamber, well provisioned, so as to enable the fugitives to withstand
a siege in case of necessity. Respecting this second place
of refuge even Marco, the old and confidential servant of the
merchant, was a stranger to the knowledge of its existence. It was
shared only by the jester and his friend, who instructed Walter
how to reach it, should their retreat, by any unfortunate accident,
become suspected. The precaution was a wise one.

As the jester approached the house early on the morning after
his adventure in the forest, he found, to his terror and surprise, a
party of the City guard, headed by his old acquaintance. Sir John
Perrot, had taken possession of each end of the street, and carefully
examined the passengers before allowing them egress from it.
Patch being well-known, no difficulty of course was made to his
passing freely. The name of his master, Wolsey, was still a talisman
few would venture to brave.

How now. Sir John ? " he exclaimed, carelessly, as if the answer
to the question he was about to put was the most indifferent thing
in the world to him. " Out binding so early ? What kind of game
are you beating for, that you ride with so many huntsmen in your
train ? "

Traitors," replied the knight, with more than his usual gravity.

What, have the Lombard merchants turned politicians ? Hath
the Emperor Charles sent an army from his Milan duchy, packed
up in a bale of silks ? "

Worse," said Sir John ; " two fugitives, for whose apprehension
our royal master has offered a vast reward, are concealed within
the house of Marietti, the rich money' lender."
How know you that ? "
We are sure," replied the courtier.

What, has he taken them in pledge ? " demanded Patch, anxious
by every means in his power to gain time, in order that the heiress
and Walter might reach their place of concealment,

Information was given to the marshal by a fellow named Marco,"
said the knight, " a servant of the house. I was ordered on this
expedition — an office," he added, in an under-tone, for he well knew
the jester's connection with the merchant, from whom he had frequently
received money on his account, " which I dared not refuse."
It could not have fallen better ; they must be saved," whispered
the fool.

Impossible ! my life would pay the penalty."
"Did it cost fifty, still it must be done," interrupted the jester,
in the same low tone ; " search where thou art shown, and leave the
rest to me. Nay, stare not, man, thou shalt have thy price — a
hundred nobles of as pure gold as ever bought a courtier's conscience
or a soldier's weapon. Are we agreed ? "

The leader of the expedition merely bowed his head. He had, in
the course of his career at Court, had many dealings with the jester,
and knew that his simple word was as good a guarantee as a noble's
bond.

By this time Marietti, who had been reconnoitring from one of
the loopholes pierced in the door, let down one of the huge
wooden shutters which served to admit light into his shop instead
of windows, and with the air of a man startled by some unexpected
alarm from his sleep, demanded :
Who is there ? "

"Friends," replied Sir John Perrot ; "so open at once, good
Lombard, and fear not for thy merchandise."

Open in the king's name ! " exclaimed Sir Edward Barrel, a
young knight, Who had been joined with him in the command of
the party, and who, like most young courtiers, was anxious to
distinguish his zeal, especially before Patch, whom he knew to bethe
confidant of Wolsey, and whose good report he thought might
serve him ; " dost take us for robbers, man ? "

I scarcely know what I took you for," answered the merchant,
at the same time opening the door ; for he felt reassured by the
appearance of the jester, whose ready ^\dt he doubted not would
find some means to extricate them from the dilemma, but whom
he was too prudent to be the first to recognise. " If this is not
some drunken jest," he continued — " if you really come in the
king's name, before I permit you to enter my house, tell me, at
least, what is his grace's pleasure."

A most reasonable request, truly ! " exclaimed Patch ; " as if
two valiant knights, with the City guard to back them, were to give
a reason, on compulsion, for their proceedings ! Perhaps, old
Mammon, we come to ransack thy money-bags, set free thy hoarded
gems, toy with thy wife, or kiss thy daughter ; that is," he added,
if such a piece of dried humanity can father anything except an
ingot."

You have given shelter to two fugitives," said Sir John Perrot.

Traitors," added Barrel, " upon whose heads the king hath seta
princely recompense."

Alack ! " replied the merchant, apparently relieved from his
fears, " but some one has sadly sported with your credulity ; but
trust not to my words, trust your own eyes — search well the house ;
and if you find any living thing except my faithful servant and
myself, deal with us after his good grace's pleasure. I am a
merchant, sirs," he added, " and meddle not with politics."

The two knights, accompanied by four of the halberdiers,
followed the speaker into the little room at the back of the shop.
Once there, much to the old man's astonishment, they proceeded
to the secret door which opened into the passage 'leading to the
rooms constructed in his warehouses. Despite his usual self-possession,
he trembled, for he felt convinced that some domestic
treachery must have been at work : and he doubted whether the
mystery of the subterranean chamber had been betrayed or not.

*' Go," he said sternly to Marco, whose guilty conscience spoke
in his shifting eye and burning cheek, " dost thou not see that
there are strangers in the shop ? Holy Mary ! " he added, " but I
left the Duke of Suffolk's diamond George and the bracelets for
Mistress Boleyn in the inner cabinet. Go and secure the key."

The aged wretch, who had eaten the speaker's bread for years,
but whose thirst for gold had tempted him to betray a generous
master, slunk from the chamber at his bidding, and while the rest
continued their search, returned to our old friend Patch, who was
expecting him in the outward room or shop.

"What brings thee back, faithful Marco ? " whispered the "jester,
in a tone so full of confidence that the father of deceit himself
could scarcely have suspected any sinister design to lurk beneath
it. " They are a long while searching."

Because," replied the fellow, " they have discovered the passage
leading to the rooms within the warehouse."

That's strange," said Patch, eyeing him closely.

*' Of course it is ; but it does not follow, because the secret is
discovered, that I have betrayed it."

Thou betray it ! " repeated the fool, in a tone in which a close
observer might have detected a slight vein of irony, " preposterous !
No, bad as humanity becomes, it has not reached that pitch of
degradation. We took thee a starving man, of broken fortunes, to

VOL. II. p 2

our service, in which thou hast grown grey ; thou hast amassed,
for one of thy state, gold beyond thy dream or wish, for thou art a
childless man, so near too, to thy grave, that the bare thought of
such a deed would damn thee. Thou sell, like a thankless cur, thy
master's blood for a few pieces more to grease an itching palm ! —
improbable, impossible ! "

I trust — I — I am sure so," faltered the man, writhing beneath
the sarcasm of the speaker, which he received for unmerited but
well-meant praise.

But thou hast not yet answered my question ; what brought
thee here ? "

Jewels of price are in the inner cabinet ; my master sent me
for the key."

The inner cabinets'' said the jester, with a peculiar emphasis ;
you are sure .? "

Quite," replied Marco, advancing towards the ponderous ironbound
piece of furniture in which Marietti was supposed to keep
the most precious of his merchandise, and which stood in a recess
cut in the solid wall at the back of the shop. As he did so. Patch
took a long key of a peculiar construction from the merchant's
desk, and applied it to an opening in the counter beneath. The
outward cabinet, which was level with the stone floor when opened,
presented an appearance something like a sentry-box ; but with
this difference, that instead of a back or shelves as one would
naturally expect to find in such a place, a second door strongly
studded with nails presented itself. This was the entrance to the
real treasure chamber ; the exterior one was merely a blind. As
the merchant had stated, a large key had been left in the massive
lock. The moment the false servant laid his hand upon it to
withdraw it, the floor of the outward cabinet, upon which he was
standing, gave way, and before he had time to utter one prayer for
mercy, one shriek for aid, the wretched man sank into an abyss
beneath, whose stagnant waters soon ended his sufferings and his
crimes.

When the party, after their ineffectual search, returned, the
cabinet was closed, and the jester busily employed in examining
a curious suit of inlaid Milan armour exposed for sale in the
Lombard's shop.

Well, have you limed the birds ? " he demanded of the two
knights.

We have been placed upon a false scent," replied Barrel, " and
have discovered nothing but two chambers daintily furnished, and
tast-ed a flask of Greek wine fit for an emperor."

Henceforth," said Perrot, who was something of an epicure,
thou shalt be my vintner. Why, man," he added, clapping the
Lombard on the shoulders, "thy wine is melted rubies. Jove
never drank sweeter nectar."

I have but few flasks," replied the merchant, drily, " and they
were a present from my Greek correspondent, Mavoryeni, who is
more chary of it than his gold. 'Tis the Chian vintage."

Write to him again," exclaimed the jester, " and let me peruse
thy correspondence. I am a judge of letters."

The two knights, fully persuaded that they had been sent upon
a fool's errand, and that all further search would be useless, dismissed
the City guard, and, remounting their horses, rode, accompanied
by Patch, to York House, from whence the latter personage,
after a brief interview with his master, once more returned to the
City.

On the first alarm given at the house of Marietti, the old man
rose, and, hastily waking Walter, conducted him and the heiress
to the subterranean chamber, whose existence we have previously
described, but which was happily unknown to the treacherous
Marco ; nor was it till he had seen his guests safe within their
hiding place, and removed every vestige of their presence, that he
entered the little chamber at the back of the shop, where his
domestic slept. The scene which followed our readers have
already read.

The orphan heiress, whose fate we have for some time lost sight
of, was praying within the low-vaulted chamber, the close air of
which had already caused her cheek to pale. Walter, his sword
freed from its scabbard ready for use, was watching beside her,
when a distant step in the long passage which conducted to their
retreat fell upon the listener's ears.

They come," faltered the maiden. " Walter, by the love you
bear me, and the faith which I have sworn, let me not fall alive
into the tyrant's hand. Death hath no terror compared to such a
fate. Remember your promise."

I will remember," replied the young man, his lips quivering
with emotion as he spoke, for he had sworn to osier her a pure,
unsullied sacrifice at the shrine of honour, rather than permit her
to be polluted by the licentious passions of the vindictive Henry.
With one arm he encircled her waist, and remained on guard, ready
at the first signal to defend the trembling creature, who clung to
him with all a woman's confidence for protection, or, if defence
were vain, to die together.

The footsteps approached nearer and nearer ; and although only
a few instants had elapsed since first they heard them, yet everyone
was so fraught with agony and expectation, that it seemed an
age ; the very beatings of their hearts became suspended ; nor was
it till their eccentric protector, Walter's old friend, the jester, had
been some time in the chamber, and all fear of a surprise had
ceased, that their life-stream flowed again in its calm, usual
current.

What dost thou bring ? " exclaimed the young man, extending

his hand to him; "let me know the worst, for danger is less
appalling than suspense."

The worst," repeated his visitor, with a faint smile, for his
heart was heavy with the anticipation of his master's fate. " For
thee, thank Heaven, the worst is past. For once," he added,
relentless cruelty has been defeated by honest cunning ; but you
must away — England is no longer an asylum for you. The bark
is ready, and the wind sets fair for Antwerp."

For Antwerp ! " repeated the Lady Mary, blushing, for an
intuitive sense of delicacy showed her the impropriety of her
being the companion of Walter in his flight in any other character
than his wife.

All is arranged," continued the speaker, kindly ; " this very
night a chaplain of the queen, who still feels warmly for your
welfare, will unite your fates. Here is a token from her grace."

He handed to the agitated and astonished girl a small slip of
parchment, recommending, or rather commanding, her marriage
and temporary exile. It was signed " Katherine."

It fell from her hand the moment she had perused it. In an
instant Walter was at her feet, entreating her by a thousand persuasive
words, such as have weight in maidens' ears, to confirm
his happiness. The transition was so sudden, so unexpected, that
the orphan could not sufficiently recover her agitation to reply to
his passionate asseverations of eternal constancy and faith.

I will be his bondsman," said the jester, observing her hesitation
— " if a true heart can merit such a sacrifice — that thou Avilt
not repent the generous confidence ; besides," he added, " better a
hasty marriage than an eternal separation."

These words at once decided her.

Walter," she replied, at the same time extending her hand to
him, " it is not thus a daughter of my house should wed ; but I
know thou wilt not think less kindly of me if in the hour of
danger I oast aside the scruples of my rank and womanhood and
yield to this most hasty marriage. My heart hath long been given
to thy keeping. I here intrust my person to thy honour — my
happiness to thy protection. Let the priest come — the bride will
not say nay."

We may pass over the passionate gratitude of the lover and the
approving words of Patch, who had already begun to take as deep
an interest in the persecuted orphan as in the welfare of his friend.
As he and the queen had secretly arranged, a chaplain that very
night visited the house of the Lombard merchant, and with no
other witnesses than Marietti and the jester, the heiress pronounced
the vow which bound her destiny irrevocably with Walter's, the
vow which set the seal upon his boyish dreams by crowning them
with a reality of bliss. No sooner hail the trembling priest
departed, for he knew the risk he ran, than disguises were brought,

and the fugitives, dressed as two sailor boys, were smuggled onboard
a small vessel lying below the Tower. Patch accompanied
them till they were safe on deck,

Farewell ! " he whispered ; " noble lady, in Antwerp you will
meet Sir Richard Everil and his son, also a gentle youth, whom
your husband rescued from that den of cruelty, the Lollards' Tower.
Be kind to the poor boy for my sake — you will soon, I doubt not,
learn to love him for his own,"

Our readers may suppose how readily and gratefully the promise
was given.

You will find, on your arrival," continued the speaker, " a letter
from the queen. Keep a good heart ; for while I live you have at
least one friend to watch over and protect you,"

And that one a kind one," exclaimed Walter, warmly pressing
his hand. " This heart must be cold indeed ere it forgets thy
matchless friendship and ungenerous service,"

The last adieu was spoken, and the lugger, which had been
specially engaged and manned for the purpose, spread her canvas
to the wind, and rapidly made sail down the river. As it passed
Tilbury, a boat, well armed, put off from the fort, evidently
with the intention of boarding it : but the jester had taken his
precautions ; for no sooner did it approach alongside than a
carronade, which had been brought to a level with the water-mark,
was discharged at it, and the shot sent clean through its slender
planks.

Fortunately for the rowers, they were sufficiently near the
shore to regain it without loss of life. Long here further preparations
for pursuit were made, the craft which bore the fugitives
was out of sight ; nor did they encounter further accident till they
arrived at Antwerp.

On the following day Henry returned to Greenwich, accompanied
by Anne Boleyn and her father, to whom the monarch had
clearly explained his intentions towards the object of his passion,
whom, as an earnest of her future greatness, he created Marchioness
of Pembroke, giving her a pension of a thousand a year to support
her dignity ; but while Wolsey still remained in power, the
aspiring woman trembled at the realisation of her ambitious
dreams, and every wile which her sex so well know how to
employ when they would subjugate the master mind of man to
their caprice, was tried to keep up Henry's indignation against his
favourite, whose pride was exaggerated, whose wealth dwelt upon
to excite the monarch's cupidity, and whose services only were
overlooked.

Thou wilt keep thy promise, Henry ? " she exclaimed, leaning
softly upon his arm and looking up into his eyes with that expression
of thoughtful tenderness so difficult to resist in women,
even when we know it to be assumed. " Thou wilt not listen to

the glozing speech of this priestly traitor — this enemy of our
happiness ? Wilt thou ? "

"Thou shalt see, May-bird," replied the amorous monarch;
"thine own eyes shall witness his disgrace. See," he added,
leading her to the window, " he comes. Behind the arras, in the
presence-chamber, we may observe what passes ; Suffolk and
Norfolk have their charge."

Leading the fair temptress from the royal closet, where the above
brief dialogue had taken place, Henry and Anne Boleyn proceeded
to the withdrawing-room, which was separated from the throne-room
only by a heavy curtain of Utrecht velvet, the massive folds
of which were easily drawn aside.

Wolsey, on his arrival, had been purposely received without
those customary marks of respect which on all previous occasions
had been shown him by the officers of the household on his visits
to his sovereign ; but he came prepared to meet the worst, for the
faithful Patch had informed him of the mortification prepared for
him by his ungrateful master ; and he resolved, if he must fall, to
fall at least with dignity.

Regardless, to all appearance, of the studied neglect, he slowly
advanced up the great staircase, and entered the crowded presence-chamber
with as proud a step as in the days of his favour and
undisputed power. The courtiers, most of whom had received
their cue, remained covered in his presence ; several even went sofar
as to turn their backs upon him ; these were chiefly the younger
ones, for the old and prudent could not but remember how frequently
his downfall had been predicted, and how often his
enemies had been disappointed.

As a cardinal, Wolsey was the only subject permitted to sit in the
presence of the king — a privilege claimed at that period by all the
members of the Sacred College at the Courts of European sovereigns.

Without deigning to cast a look upon the pack by whom he was
surrounded, the stately churchman seated himself for the last time
upon the gilded chair reserved for his especial use, and motioning
to one of his ushers, directed him to place a species of desk or
prie-dieu before him, upon which was a book containing the
minutes of the council, which he began to read. While thus
occupied, the curtain was drawn slowly aside, and Norfolk and
Suffolk approached the spot where the still dreaded minister was
seated. Henry and Anne remained behind the hangings, watching
the proceedings,

"My lord," said Norfolk, "we are the bearers of unpleasant
tidings."

"The messenger is most fit, then," coolly answered Wolsey,
gazing upon the embarrassed courtier with a glance of keen contempt.
" But to your news, my lord."

"We are commissioned, cardinal," exclaimed the impatient



Suffolk, " to demand from you in the king's name the seal of
England."

And your authority ? " demanded Wolsey.

*' Our master's roj'^al word," replied the nobleman ; " is not that
sufficient ? "

No ! " replied the fallen favourite, haughtily.

You refuse to resign it, then ? "

To you, and such as you. When Henry gave it to my charge,
he bound it by patent to me for life ; and such gifts," continued
the churchman, "are not resumed upon a courtier's word or an
intriguer's faith."

Intriguers ! " echoed the two peers.

Vex me not, lords," exclaimed Wolsey, "with idle words. I
know my doom is sealed, that Henry's ears and Henry's heart are
closed against his servant ; but I have been his friend, and he hath
still a nature too princely to insult me. Go to your master and to
mine," he added ; " tell him that to his pleasure I submit myself
in all things ; but to himself alone, or to his warrant, will I resign
the trust of former confidence, the gift of other years. Not on the
faith of creatures who have cringed like reptiles in my path, sworn
that their fortunes flourished in my smile, and offered flattery's
incense as to a god before me. Minions of fortune, sycophants, or
knaves, I know and scorn ye."

"Arrest the traitor ! " whispered Anne Boleyn to her royal lover.

He hath reason, sweetheart," gravely resumed the king, taking
up a pen and signing his name at the bottom of a blank sheet of
paper ; " it is not thus the seal should be demanded."

CHAPTER XIV.

With thee every passion is still,

Each tempest of feeling is o'er ;

Hearts falsehood hath broken are still,

The eye weeps with anguish no more.
What is fortune ? what honour ? what fame's fleeting breath,
Compared to thy slumbers, beautiful Death ? — Old Ballad.

On presenting the warrant, attested by the sign manual of the
king, Wolsey immediately resigned the great seal ; and about an
hour afterwards, amid the sneers of the courtiers and the triumphant
jeers of his enemies, left Greenwich for his mansion of York
House, the scene of his past splendour, pride, and munificence.
It was the last time he was ever permitted to visit it, the Dukes of
Suffolk and Norfolk having intimated to him that within f 
hours he was to retire to Esher, a palace which belonged to
him as Bishop of Winchester, which see had been added to his
other preferments in 1521 by his then indulgent matter. Henry
and Anne Boleyn stood at the oriel window of the great chamber

L

to water the departure of the fallen favourite. The countenance
of the monarch was marked by an unusual expression of gravity ;
indeed, a close observer might have noted something like regret or
peevishness. That of the beautiful being by his side, upon the
contrary, was radiant with smiles and joy. She had humbled her
enemy; the only influence which stood between her and the
gratification of her ambitious hopes was at last overthrown ; and
as the disgraced minister, leaning upon the arm of his chaplain,
followed his attendants to the sumptuous barge which lay moored
upon the banks of the river, she felt herself in all but name a
queen. The pertinacity with which she had pursued the downfall
of the cardinal was not amongst the least acts of imprudence which
Anne Boleyn committed ; for although the man yielded to her
influence, the monarch was inwardly offended, since he knew the
secret cause of her resentment. Wolsey, at his private command,
had broken the contract of marriage which existed between her
and Lord Percy, which contract was afterwards made the ground
of the divorce which the convenient Cranmer pronounced between
her and the king, when satiety had palled the cruel husband's love,
and the scaffold and the axe were waiting to receive her.

You are sad, Henry," she exclaimed, as she caught the moody
expression of her companion's countenance. " Alas ! I see that
Wolsey's influence lies nearer to your heart than Anne's love."

Not so," replied the king, turning from the window and gazing
upon her animated features ; " but men uproot not readily the tree
they planted, e'en though its growth be somewhat rank : were it
not wiser, sweetheart, to lop the branches, trim the foliage deftly,
but let the trunk remain ? "

These words, which showed, even at this decisive moment, the
regret with which Henry parted from his former favourite, alarmed
his capricious mistress, who felt that if Wolsey were restored to
favour, her dream of grandeur would be short — she feared his cold
observant eye upon her.

No," she exclaimed passionately ; " his downfall is necessary to
my peace of mind ; for who would see their bitterest foe lodged in
the heart they love ? He hath a tongue might wile a song bird
from the forest bough — deceive even thy princely wisdom by its
speciousness. How, then, could Anne, with nothing but her simple
love to guide her, contend with him in cunning ? Besides," she
added, throwing her graceful arm round the shoulder of the
amorous king, " thy promise, Henry ! — thy knightly promise ! "

Shall be kept," he replied, yielding to the fascination of her

beauty and the influence of the moment ; for few men can resist

a caress, or the influence of the eyes of those they love.

And thou wilt not retract it ? " she continued.

No, by this kiss ! Nay, thou shalt not deny me," said the

monarch, as Anne Boleyn coyly turned her head aside ; for, to do

her justice, however light and suspicious her conduct in other
respects towards her royal suitor, it was up to the period of her
marriage marked by extreme prudence — a circumstance which
doubtless tended to increase his passion. " Be it," he added, " the
seal of Wolsey's downfall and of Henry's faith."

His mistress resisted no longer, but blushingly received the
pledge. It was not the first time that a statesman's downfall or a
courtier's favour had been bartered for a kiss. Such is the weakness
of earth's rulers — such the frail tenure of a favourite's power !
At this moment a low shout from the lawn before the palace
attracted the speaker's attention, who, with his arm encircling the
slender waist of his mistress, led her back to their former position
by the window. Wolsey was already seated in his gilded barge,
which the rowers were pushing into the middle of the river. The
cry which attracted the king's attention was from an insolent knot
of courtiers who, in the days of the cardinal's prosperity, had been
ready to lick the dust before him. True Worshippers of the sun —
butterflies of fortune — they had adored him in prosperity, and
now, like yelping curs, turned on him in adversity.

As Henry reached the window the cry was repeated. Wolsey
was unmoved by it ; his long experience of men had taught him
most probably what to expect, or how to value them. But Henry
felt indignant at the insult, not for his former favourite's sake,
perhaps, so much as for his own. Fallen as he was, the man who
had been his confidant for years — his friend, his alter ego, or other
self, as he had familiarly called him — was still too important a
personage for a courtier's sneer. Dashing open the casement near
him, he called to the captain of the guard. Sir Hugh Neville, a
brave old knight, who was standing in the court below, reflecting,
most probably, upon the moral of the scene.

Neville, clear the court ! " exclaimed his fierce master, in that
harsh, deep tone which he invariably spoke in when angry or
excited. " Is our palace. yard a bear-garden that every hound
should bark in it ? Clear the court, and let none pass but such as
have the entrance to our privy chamber."

On Wolsey's arrival at York House he summoned the officers of
his household, and proceeded to make inventories of all that his
noble palace contained. He caused several tables to be placed in
his gallery, and these were covered with pieces of rich velvet,
damask, grog raine, tufted tafileta, satin, and holland, in such
immense quantities that when he afterwards complained of a
robbery having been committed, he stated that no less than five
hundred pieces had been conveyed away.

He ordered the most sumptuous preparation to be made for the
inspection and arrival of the king. The walls of the apartments
were hung with cloth of gold and silver, and with rich copes, which
had been fabricated at his own expense for his colleges at Oxford

and Ipswich. His plate was arranged upon two long broad tables
in his council and gilt chamber ; and being not only costly but in
great profusion, it astonished the eyes of all beholders, for until
the reign of Henry VIII. pewter was used daily, even at the table
of the monarch.

As soon as these various preparations were finished the cardinal
retired to his closet, attended only by his faithful Patch. For sometime
they busied themselves in destroying various papers and
correspondence in silence. The churchman was the first to
break it.

The hour my enemies have so long waited for has arrived ;
my robe and cross," here the speaker touched the gem upon
his breast, the ensign of his episcopal rank, " are all that fate hath
left me. The once wealthy Wolsey is a beggar now."

Not so," replied the jester, carefully dropping the velvet arras
over the door, to prevent the possibility of eavesdropping. " Thou
art rich even in that the yellow worshippers of Mammon reverence
in gold, rich enough to glut the thirst of avarice, or create on
earth a paradise — if," he added, " thou couldst find one from which
ambition was excluded."

What mean you ? " demanded the fallen churchman.

It means," resumed the speaker, " that for many long years I
have traded with a portion of thy wealth, hoarded thy gifts to be
lent out on interest, watched for gain as for a crown in heaven,
trafficked in men, in promises and favours, sold and bought human
passions and feelings like things of vilest merchandise when great
returns were promised."

And the result ? "

That you are rich ; the wealth you leave to the rapacious king
exceeds not the jester's store."

Sayst thou so ? " whispered the cardinal, breathless with
astonishment at the unexpected good fortune, for he knew the
speaker's truthfulness too well to doubt his words. " Why, then,
the game of life's not yet played out ; my foes have not
disarmed me."

True," said Patch ; " in Italy thou mayst pass the remnant of
thy days in honourable calm repose, and show that, great as was
thy nature in prosperity, it became still greater in ill fortune.
In our retreat," he added, gaily, " like the earth's oracles of old,
we will pronounce the truths which shake or move the world."

At this moment Sir William Gascoigne knocked at the door of
the closet to inform his eminence that everything was in readiness
for his departure. To this officer, who had long been the treasurer
of his household, Wolsey gave in charge his vast wealth for delivery
to the king.

We will speak further of this," whispered the cardinal to Patch,
as they left the chamber ; " at present eyes are upon us which watch

over every turn — ears pricked to catch our lightest breath. We hold
it as a proof that Heaven inclines towards us that we have still a
friend so true as thou art."

Friend ! " repeated the jester, fixing his eyes upon the pale
countenance of the speaker with an expression which showed how
the word had elevated him in his own esteem ; " that name repays
a harder bondage, a longer servitude than mine."

"When the preparations for the journey were complete, the fallen
favourite entered his barge at the private stairs of York House, and
was rowed over to Putney, where his horses awaited him.

His embarcation was eagerly watched by crowds of citizens and
courtiers, both in boats and on land ; but when they perceived that
he was not, as they had anticipated, conveyed to the Tower, their
disappointment was visible. On arriving at Putney, the cardinal
took his mule, and his train their horses, to proceed upon their way.
They had not advanced far from the town before they encountered
Sir Henry Norris, who, saluting Wolsey with great respect, bade
him be of good cheer, for that he knew by certain knowledge that
he should speedily be restored again to his sovereign's favour and
his former power. The exile smiled incredulously.

Thy wish deceives thee," he replied ; " men who fall like me
seldom rise again."

"■ Yours hath been a stumble, my good lord," continued the
messenger of Henry, for such indeed he was, "and not a fall.
Indeed, I can give token I am right."

I would gladly see one," exclaimed his eminence.

"Would this, my lord, content you ? "

Sir Henry Norris unloved his hand and drew from his finger a
small ruby ring, graved with a rose and portcullis, one of the badges
of the royal house of Tudor, and which Wolsey had seen a hundred
times worn by his capricious master ; indeed, it had on more than
one occasion served as a token of his will between them.

Take it, lord cardinal," said the messenger ; " the words of
prophecy I utter were the giver's ; you in your wisdom best can
judge whether or no he hath the power to make them truths."

Immediately on receiving the gem followed one of those scenes
which show of what brass and clay the strongest minds are framed.
The man whose genius had wielded the destinies of a mighty
nation, made war or peace at his caprice, been courted by kings,
aspired to the proudest throne on earth, wept like a child for joy on
receiving the well-known token from the king, Alighting from
his mule, and bare-headed, the once haughty Wolsey returned
thanks to God at the first sign of returning favour from a man
whom in his heart he knew to be treacherous, remorseless, cruel —
his only virtue courage, and his least vice deceit.

The jester gazed upon the scene with a mingled expression of
pity and contempt.

Taking a chain and reliquary containing fragments of the Holy
Cross from his person, the cardinal presented it to Norris in
requital of the more precious gift of which he was the messenger.

And has your gi-ace no token for the king ? " demanded the
knight, after kissing the churchman's hand, who had condescended
to pass the chain round his neck himself.

Methinks," said Patch, " the goodly plate and furniture of York
House Avere sufficient token, or is Henry's affection so intense that
he would have his eminence's skin as well as robe ? "
The knight smiled as he replied :

His grace desires not these, but there is a gift I know would
please him well, and do thy master service ? "
Name it."

Thyself," said Sir John ; " the king remembers well thy merry
humour and thy biting jests, thy quips and bitter fancies. 'Twas
but this very day I heard his grace declare he would not grudge a
thousand nobles to purchase such a fool. He swears thou art
unrivalled."

Indeed ! " exclaimed the jester, his eyes flashing fire at the
degrading proposition of transferring him, like a sumpter mule or
beast of burden, from one master to another. " His highness
wrongs himself, as well as those around him. He must be difficult
of choice, where all are to be sold — thought, soul, word, conscience,
faith, and honour — e'en at a more vile price than their vile thews
and bones."

Impossible ! " added Wolsey, who saw that in losing Patch he
should part with his right hand, his intelligence, his minister. '' He
is the only solace of my broken fortunes — all that reminds me I
once had friends. I cannot, will not, send him from me."

A look of gratitude, Which Wolsey alone understood, thanked him
for the generous resolution.

"Farewell, my lord," said Sir JohniNorris ; " I have pointed out
the means of pleasuring his grace ; 'tis yours to accept or to reject
it. Your friends must wish you had decided otherwise."

With these Avoids he put spurs to his horse, and set forward on
his return to Greenwich.

For some minutes the cavalcade renewed their journey" in silence.
The fallen favourite Alas the first to speak.

This refusal will incense Henry more than the report of enemies,
the sneers of courtiers, or e'en Anne Boleyn's malice. I fear me,
Patch, that Italy, after all, must be my place of exile — my last
dreams vanish here."

Are they the last ? " demanded his companion, fixing upon him
an inquiring look, which showed how little faith the speaker put
in the extinction of that ambition Which had been the ruling
passion of Wolsey's life, " or merely the lull which precedes the
renewal of the storm ? "

The fallen man shook his head with a mournful smile, and they
continued their progress towards Esher again in silence. Patch
was evidently cogitating some important point within himself —
the cardinal chewing the cud of vain regret and bitter fancies.
Just as they reached a point where the roads separated, the jester
drew rein with the air of a man who had decided on a distasteful
task.

After all, my lord," he whispered, " I think I had better
humour this strange fancy of the king, and return to Greenwich ;
It will at least secure one friend at Court to arm or to forewarn
you."

Wolsey's countenance cleared ; for despite the loss which his
absence would occasion to himself, as far as his personal feelings
were concerned, he could not but perceive the advantage which
might accrue by having so devoted a friend continually near the
person of the capricious Henry,

And wilt thou make this sacrifice for thy master ? " he
demanded.

No," replied the jester, sternly.

For thy friend, then ? " said Wolsey, who perfectly understood
his humour,

For my friend willingly," replied Patch, his features lit with
an expression such as men seldom read there ; " that word hath
bound me to thee faster than gold or interest. The voluntary
service outweighs a thousand bought ones. Farewell," he added :
"dream on thy dream of greatness ; if human wit or courage can
avail, it shall become a truth ; if not, one faithful heart at least
shall share thy fall — one faithful arm avenge thee,"

An hour's hard riding enabled the speaker to overtake the
messenger of the king, to whom he announced that the cardinal,
returning on his first hasty resolution, had transferred his service
to the king.

That same night the jester resumed his old quarters in the palace
at Greenwich.

On the following morning Patch was warmly welcomed by
Henry, who had long wished to attach him to his service. By
Anne Boleyn he was viewed with distaste ; something whispered
her that the confidant of Wolsey was a dangerous person near her
future husband, and all the enemies of the cardinal shared the
feeling.

So," she exclaimed, and a slight sneer curled her beautiful lip
as she uttered the disobliging words, " fidelity hath taken a lesson
from prudence, and changed sides at last ! "

Why not," replied the jester, bowing before her with mock
respect, " when love hath done the same ? Are fools less easy to
be wooed than women ? Kings seldom sue for anything in vain."

The future queen blushed slightly and was silent.

Thou art a slanderer on the sex," said Henry, " and hast never
loved."

Your grace's pardon," interrupted Patch ; " but, like other
great men, 1 have had my Weaknesses ; and she I loved was faithful
too for three whole daA's, till I betrayed myself and proved I was a
fool."

How so ? "

By believing her," he added, sarcastically, " Show me the man
could give a greater proof of folly, and I'll change liveries with him
aye, caps and bells to boot."

At this moment the Duke of Norfolk, who had witnessed the
discomfiture of his kinswoman, whose union with the king he had
been most anxious to secure, as a stepping-stone to his own
aggrandisement, drew near the royal circle, and eying the speaker
with a look of superb disdain, observed :

So, knave, thou hast returned to Court ? "

Don't be alarmed, my lord," replied Patch, mimicking his look
and tone of voice so admirably that Henrj' and all who heard him
were convulsed with laughter at the retort, " there is 7'oom for two
of us:'

This fellow must be disposed of," muttered the mortified noble
to himself, as he turned angrily away.

Anne Boleyn shared the feeling, for the jester's words had stung,
if not alarmed, her.

'■ Come," exclaimed Henry, whose coarse nature cared little for
the feelings of others, provided his own were unscathed ; " the
fool defends himself with his wit, the noble with his sword — each
one to his weapon. The challenge hath been fairly given, and as
fairly answered. As judge of the lists, I throw down my warder
and bid the combat cease."

With these words Henry, attended by his courtiers, left the great
hall for the terrace, to amuse himself with shooting at the biitts
which were erected on the sward before it — an amusement of
which he was passionately fond, and indulged in with his favourites,
whilst the ladies of the Court overlooked the sport.

Thou art a child, Anne," exclaimed the newly created Lady
Rochf ort to her sister-in-law, Anne Boleyn, who, with an affectation
of state, walked apart from the rest of the ladies ; " thy countenance
is as a book, where every child may read. The jester's random hit
hath quite discomfited thee."

It was no random blow," whispered Anne, " but levelled with
design. The fatal letter which, in the weakness of returning fondness,
I wrote to Wyat, something assures me hath fallen into
Wolsey's hands."

Impossible ! It is thy terror speaks, and not thy sober reason."

Armed with such a weapon, what have I not to dread ? " added
the future queen, hath. increased agitation.



Crush him," said Lady Rochfort, with a fiend-like look —
crush him ere he can use it ; set thy heel upon the serpent's head
ere it can use its fangs to sting thee. Didst thou know the power,"
she continued, contemptuously, " women can exercise o'er those
who love them, Henry would only hold the sceptre, thine the hand
to sway it. Creation's lords are puppets in our hands ; we pull
the strings and move them at our pleasure ; nature hath armed
our weakness with a power to mould the masters of the world at
will."

But should my fears be right ? " urged Anne ; " should Henry
see that fatal letter, farewell the thought of marriage."

Better before than after," replied her shrewd confidante, with a
terrible emphasis, which proved how thoroughly she understood
the character of the king ; " better to temporise with fate than brave
it. As for this speechmonger, this jester, this fellow whose weapons
are his words, leave him to me ; if he possess the secret, I know a
way to wring the knowledge from him."

And the agent ? "

Is a shrewd one," said the unprincipled woman, whose beauty
was only equalled by her licentiousness.

Enough ; he is one of those soft fools who set their lives upon
a woman's smile, — things to be used, but laughed at. Trust to my
friendship, and leave all to me."

To thy ambition rather," murmured her sister-in-law, as her
counsellor quitted the terrace to meet Sir John Norris, who had
been wistfully eying her for some time from the sward beneath.
"How eagerly the love-stricken minion spurns the dull earth as he
advances ! Look to thy honour, Rochfort," she added, with a frown ;
for by my womanhood, yon galliard's face might win a woman's
heart more guarded than thy wife's."

How ! " she exclaimed, suddenly assuming a haughtiness of
manner to hide her confusion, as she saw the jester approach ; " our
privacy broken in upon ! Have we spies upon our steps ? "

Lady," he replied, and his voice was low and musical, as suited
the earnestness of his purpose, " why should we be foes ? Smile
not ; 'tis in my strength, not in weakness that I speak. The contest
is unequal : thou art fair and young, with all youth's glorious
dreams fresh in thy soul — with all its ties around thee ; I have
passed alike the age of hope and promise. If it is sometimes hard
to feel that earth hath not one link, there is at least this
advantage — that death presents no terror. Why should we continue
it?"

At what price ? " demanded Anne, who imagined she saw in
the submission of the speaker a proof that neither he nor Wolsey
dreamt of the existence of the fatal letter. " At what sacrifice are
we to secure the friendship of so great a man as Patch the jester ?
Think'st thou," she added, with a sneer, " a quip will efface our

VOL. II. Q 2

image from the heai-t of Henry, or break a purpose kings have
failed to shake ? "

No sacrifice," answered the singular being, his eye slightly
kindling at the sarcastic manner in which she addressed him.
Since it will bring thee honour, be generous to a fallen foe."

To Wolsey ! " interrupted Anne Boleyn ; " never ! There is a
hate between us which all thy cunning sophistry would fail
to cure."

Be content with his disgrace — his absence from the Court,"
urged the suitor in his still humble manner. " If he hath wronged
thee," he continued, " his downfall hath atoned it. Why extort
from Henry's lips a pledge for his destruction ? "

He is mine enemy."

"At least a noble one," said the jester, proudly ;" for he will
leave a trace upon the earth for men to ponder and to wonder at.
The memories of such men fade not like idle dreams."

His dreams will soon end ! " exclaimed the now reassured Anne
triumphantly. " This very night Henry hath promised to sign the
order for his impeachment and committal to the Tower."

Were it already signed," said Patch, coolly, " I should not fear ;
he hath a powerful friend to plead for him ; one whose favour
with the king is paramount against all other influence."

Whose ? " demanded his astonished listener.

"Yours," whispered the jester ; "judge if I overrate it ; the king
will not resist your sighs and tears ; for, if needs must, you shall
both lie and kneel, and feign and pray to shake him. It will make
Satan laugh," he added in the same undertone, " to see the perjured
hypocrite fawn on the man she loathes, to win the safety of the one
she hates ; to undo the mesh her cunning heart devised ; bribing
her royal dupe with a kiss, false as the one which sealed her faith
to Wyat, or transferred it, a short hour after, to the amorous king.
I would have spared thy woman's shame," he continued ; " but
thou hast forced this from me. Hadst thou been true to nature,
to thy sex — had one generous impulse, one spark of Eden, lingered
in thy soul, I would have spared this last humiliation. Remember
the blow aimed by thy malice must be stayed, or it will crush thee
with thine enemy."

I am lost," sighed the overwhelmed woman, who so lately
deemed herself a queen.

Not lost, but warned. One step further against thy fallen foe,
and thy letter to Wyat — the one which paints thy loathing of the
king and thy warm love to his more youthful rival is placed in
Henry's hand. Knit thy fair brow," he added, "and act the
puppet-queen ; " mock at me ; scorn me in public as thou wilt ;
but mark my will in this. I am one of those v/ho warn not twice."
Bowing low, in mock humility, before her, that those who from
a distance had marked their interview might not suspect the

singular tone in which it had been conducted, the jester took his
leave, and continued his walk upon the terrace, satisfied that the
danger which threatened the man he so faithfully served and loved,
at least for the present horn, had been avoided.

When Lady Rochfort returned to her sister-in-law, after her
interview with Sir John Norris, she found her pale as marble,
seated upon a bench which fortunately happened to be near, and
into which she sank as soon as the horrible interview between her
and Patch was ended.

•' Anne ! " exclaimed the alarmed confidante, *' in the name of
every saint, tell me what has happened."

Mine enemy hath found me," sobbed her relative, sinking upon
her shoulder. " The jester has my letter, and threatened to lay it
before the king. I am lost ! " she added, passionately. " Why did
I ever listen to the whisperings of ambition, or break the only vow
my heart e'er sanctioned ? "

Threatened ! " repeated Lady Eochf ort ; " if he hath only
threatened, we may defy him. Rouse thyself," she continued,
loosening at the same time a golden flagon of perfumes which hung
suspended by a chain from her jewelled girdle, and applying the
contents to the brow and nostrils of her kinswoman. " Be but as
true to thyself as I will prove to thee, and, despite the jester and
his proofs, all will yet go well."

The speaker, as our readers doubtless already have perceived,
was a woman of resolution. She kept her word. During the
month which followed the interview between Anne Boleyn and
the jester, the oldest courtiers were mystified by the proceedings
of the king towards his former favourite. It is true that Hales, the
attorney-general, filed an information against Wolsey for having
procured and published bulls from Rome securing the office of
legate contrary to a law passed in the reign of Richard II., to which
indictment the cardinal pleaded guilty, but professed ignorance of
the statute, and submitted himself to the king's mercy, who not
only granted him protection and pardon, but restored to him a
portion of his forfeited wealth, amounting to six thousand three
hundred and seventy-four pounds — a large sum in those days, and
finally restored him to the sees of York and Winchester, from
which he had been suspended.

All this was gall and wormwood to the future queen, who found
herself compelled to use her interest and blandishments to secure
the safety of the man she hated, and whom, whether justly or not,
she considered her bitterest enemy. Patch, when he pleased, was
an inexorable task-master, and amply avenged her broken faith to
Wyat, who at her express instigation had been sent into a kind of
honourable exile, under pretence of a mission to the Cour-t of France,

This gleam of sunshine was the last doomed to fall upon the
fortunes of the illustrious man v/hoee name, with all his failings,

pride, ambition, and despotism, must ever fill a brilliant page in
English annals. The tiitelarj* genius and protector of the fallen
minister suddenly disappeared from Court ; vain were all the
inquiries which Henry set on foot to trace him — Patch was
nowhere to be found, and the enemies of his master once more
raised their heads. But while Wolsey was receiving proofs of
respect and popularity from the people, which he had never
obtained in the days of his too brilliant greatness, his foes were
more than ever impressed with the necessity of destroying a man
who could render himself thus powerful even in adversity.
Reports were conveyed to Henry's ears of the state and hospitality
which his degraded favourite still maintained, and these accounts
were exaggerated in order to impress the mind of the jealous king
with the danger of simpering so ambitious and unsubdued a character
to exercise so great an influence in society.

Unfortunately, there were circumstances innocent enough in
themselves which seemed to favour these representations.

Wolsey was at Cawood Castle when the sudden arrival of the
Earl of Northumberland was announced. He foresaw his fate, and
prepared to meet it with dignity. He received his unwelcome guest
with courtly hospitality, and conducted him to his own chamber,
that he might change his apparel. There it was, according to
Cavendish, who, as gentleman usher, alone was present, that the
arrest was made. The captor laid his hand upon the cardinal's
arm, and in a voice broken by emotion faltered out :

My lord, I arrest you of high treason ! "

The keys of the castle were given up, and consternation spread
throughout the household.

On the following morning Northumberland, after arranging
everything according to his instructions, despatched Dr. Augustine,
Wolsey's chaplain, bound like a common felon, to London, and
prepared to set forward himself with his illustrious prisoner ; but,
as the cardinal had chosen to celebrate Mass for the last time before
his household, it was late before the procession set out. At the
gates of the castle it was joined by a number of country gentlemen,
whom Northumberland had summoned to attend on the occasion,
and more than three thousand persons were assembled, who
expressed their good-will and commiseration to the unfortunate
captive by crying out :

God save your grace ! Evil take them who have taken you ! "

These and similar cries followed the train of the earl through
the town of Cawood, where Wolsey had endeared himself to the
poor and rich by his hospitality and charity.

As the prisoner progressed towards London, his strength was
observed visibly to decline ; and, by the time he reached Leicester,
he was so exhausted that his attendants were obliged to lift him
from his mule at the gate of the great monastery where they halted.

Father abbot," exclaimed the dying man to the superior, who,
at the head of his monks, had advanced to the gates to receive him,
I am come to lay my bones amongst you."

The speaker was too exhausted to utter more, but on being
supported to his chamber, retired to his couch, whence he never
rose again.

The first care of his eminence was to confess himself to an aged
monk, whose reputation for sanctity was deservedly spread over
the country round. What passed at that awful interview can never
be disclosed till priest and penitent both stand before the judgment
seat of the Most High, and the secrets of all hearts are known.
Certain it is that the absolving words were at last pronounced by
the aged minister, whose power, according to the faith of the
Catholic world, unseals the gates of Paradise to man.

It was midnight. Northumberland and Kingston, the keeper of
the Tower, stood conversing by the watch-fire, when they were
startled by a violent knocking at the great gate. No sooner was
the gate unbarred than a man, wrapped in a horseman's cloak,
dashed through it.

Am I too late, my lord ? " exclaimed the intruder, addressing
the earl, to whom he was well known, the former having held,
when Lord Henry Percy, an office in the household of the cardinal
" have treason and cruelty accomplished their work ? Is the
proudest heart, the noblest mind in England yet extinct ? "

Patch," said the young noble, recognising him, " whence come
you ? "

From the grave," continued the jester ; " from the living tomb
to which my enemies consigned me. But tell me," he added,
does our master, friend, still live ? "

The hand of death is on him."

Too late — too late," murmured the faithful confidant ; " but he
must not die and dream that I betrayed him. His great heart must
not descend into the tomb ere it hath done me justice. My lord,"
he added, "by our hours of old companionship — by a poor man's
honour and a true man's faith — by your own generous nature,
grant me one boon — let me behold my master ere he dies."

There was something so energetic in the jester's tone and face
that Northumberland could not resist it ; he knew his captive's
dissolution was hourly, if not momentarily, expected ; and he
considered that he should run small risk in granting so poor a
boon. Motioning to the speaker to follow him, he led the way to
the interior of the monastery to the abbot's chamber, where the
once powerful Wolsey lay in the agonies of his last hour.

On a low covered couch was stretched the emaciated form of the
once powerful man ; his full features so fallen and emaciated that
even Patch recognised him with difficulty. The priests, who had
just administered the last office of the Church, were slowly quitting

the cell when the Jester entered it. Kneeling on a cushion at the
foot of the pallet, he gazed for a few moments in silence upon the
melancholy wreck of so much intelligence and ambition.

The dying cardinal was the first to speak. Fixing his hollow
eyes upon his former favourite, he faintly smiled, and pronounced
the name of " Patch."

The tone and look all spoke unbroken confidence and trust ; the
kneeling man required no further assurance that Wolsey, even to
the last, had rightly judged him.

"• We have escaped them," murmured the sufferer ; " Rome's
purple hath not been sullied in our person ; the curs who yelp to
lap our blood are disappointed, Patch ; but, oh ! at what a price ! "

Here some internal spasm so fearfully wrung the dying man
that he was incapable of uttering more.

I, too, have suffered," whispered the jester ; " prison, torture,
all that cruelty could devise ; but I am free again, — if not to save,
at least avenge thee."

I deemed thee dead," faltered Wolsey, " but never faithless.
Who was thine enemy ? "

Anne Boleyn."

The name seemed to rouse the wrath and latent energies of the
expiring man. "Anne Boleyn ! " he exclaimed, "the destroyer!
Ere long her beauty shall be quenched in blood. The crown she
seeks shall crush her. See ! " he added, pointing with his emaciated
hand to some imaginary scene before him, " the scaffold rears its
hideous front. Another and another still succeeds. Blood ! Henry
will slake his thirst in the hot stream. Does he think our thunders
sleep, or that Rome's arm is nerveless ? Summon a council of the
church — unveil the dread artillery of Heaven. Heresy descends
like Egypt's plague upon the laud — England is lost — the rock of
faith split with dissension — the rein escapes me. Martyrs and
saints, ora, ora,pro nobis ! "

With this invocation on his lips, the haughty spirit passed away
from earth, and Wolsey lay beyond the reach of human malice or
of human sympathy.

No sooner was the last struggle over than Patch approached the
side of the couch, and kissed the dead man's hand — a burning tear
fell upon it as he did so. Amongst the jewelled rings which
glittered on the nerveless fingers was the poisoned one, which had
been his own gift. He slowly drew it off. and touched the secret
spring.

As he suspected, it was empty.

Pale corpse," he murmured, extending his hand towards the
body, " thou shalt be avenged — I swear it by our compact and our
sufferings ! "

Could Anne Boleyn, Rochfort, and Norris have heard his words,
they might have trembled at the jester's oath.

CHAPTER XV.

Ambition first sprung from your blest abodes,
The glorious fault of angels and of gods ;
Thence to their images on earth it flows,
And in the breasts of kings and heroes glows.
Most souls, 'tis true, peep forth but once an age,
Dull, sullen prisoners in the body's cage ;
Like Eastern kings a lazy state they keep.
And undisturbed in their own palace sleep. — Pope.

The night after Wolsey's death, all that remained of the once
powerful favourite was consigned to its final resting-place, in the
chapel of Leicester Abbey, by torch-light, with all the ceremonies
due to his ecclesiastical dignities ; but previous to this solemnity
it was thought proper that the mayor and aldermen of the town
should see the body, in order to prevent any false rumour
respecting his death. On inspection, it was found that Wolsey
had constantly worn a hair shirt next his skin — a mark of penitence
which none of his attendants suspected his having adopted. It is
not specified by Cavendish, his gentleman usher, who was faithful
to him to the last, that any appearances of poison were observed
upon the body ; and although several contemporary writers repeat
the assertion that the cardinal poisoned himself, the fact of his
having done so must always remain an historical doubt,

A hundred torches lit the chapel in which the remains of the
once haughty cardinal were being lowered to the grave. Twelve
knights held the ropes upon which the coffin, adorned with the
mitre, crosier, and hat, was supported ; and as it slowly descended,
the flashing of the tapers upon their bright steel armom- contrasted
finely with the sombre vestments of the abbots and monks, grouped
around, and chanting a de profundity for the dead. Bareheaded, at
the foot of the grave, stood the Earl of Northumberland, and Sir
William Kingston, the Keeper of the Tower, opposite him ; both
most probably reflecting on the instability of human grandeur and
human wisdom. The former, while Lord Henry Percy, had been
an officer of the dead man's household, and could judge better than
most of the virtues and weaknesses of his late prisoner, whose*
conduct in dissolving his hasty contract with Anne Boleyn he had
long ceased to resent, nay, even felt grateful for.

But where was Patch all the while, — the inimitable Patch — the
melancholy jester — the kind cynic — the man whose gall was in his
tongue alone, for the rich milk of human love left it no room
within his generous heart ? Far from the pomp of death, from the
official grief of those around him, the last true friend of fallen
greatness knelt in a retired corner of the chapel, anxious to veil
his tears from every eye. Vainly the jester tried to pray ; his
attention at every word was broken by old memories, and passages

of former kindness, confidence, and faith, between him and the
master who had called him friend, and by that word restored him
to his own respect, and Which he had repaid by services such as no
gold could purchase.

Just as the service Alas concluded, a violent ringing at the great
gate startled the assistants. The earl gravely whispered something
to one of his attendants, who left the chapel, and returned with a
packet, which he delivered into his master's hand, who, thinking
probably that it contained some fresh instructions from Henry,
hastily Ijroke the seal and perused its contents.

Marchmont," he said, to an esquire who stood near him, as
soon as he had finished it, " go to the gate, give the bearer of this
missive four crowns, and direct him to the town. On your life,
neither draw bolt nor bar ; and, above all," he added, in a low
whisper, " not a word of the jester being here."

The young man bowed, and withdrew upon his errand.

The ceremony was completed, and one by one the knights and
attendant priests withdrew from the chapel, leaving only the
massive lamp which hung before the altar of Our Lady to give
light to the interior. Of the many lately assembled there, Patch
and the earl alone remained ; the latter advanced to the remote
corner where the jester was kneeling, and laying a friendly hand
upon his shoulder, commanded him to rise : the mourner obeyed
him without a word.

I have received orders, which I dare not openly disobey, to
arrest you."

From Anne Boleyn," said Patch, quietly ; " I guessed as much
when I heard of the arrival of a messenger ; she plays a bold game,
but will lose at last."

"You think so ?"

I am sure so."

Patch," said the earl, " thou hast a kind heart, and that head of
thine, which is stuffed with something more than whims and
crotchets, has guided me from many a boyish folly. Twelve
hours' grace is all I dare venture for thee ; take the best horse in
my stable, and my purse if thou hast need of it — put what space
j^ou can between us, and for thy safety and my honour, until better
times, cross my path no more."

"You shall not tamper, my dear lord, with honour or with
safety for my sake ; perform your duty," replied the jester.

What, arrest you ? "

Even so."

Art mad, or tired of life — that, like an idle thing, you cast it
from you ? "

My life, my lord, is as safe as your own. I have a powerful
protectress in Anne Boleyn."

Why, man," exclaims the earl, " this is the excess of wilfulness

; blindness that will not see. I tell thee that it is by the
request of her thou names I am commanded to arrest thee."

And I reply," answered Patch, in the same earnest tone, " that
I possess the means to work my safety ; nay, make mine enemy the
step to reach it. Therefore, my lord, send me with Marchmont
and the messenger."

One moment," said the friendly noble, " and I have done.
Approach, for the words I am about to utter bear death even in
their echo to the unguarded speaker, and may prove scarcely less
fatal to him that listens to them : Henry and Anne are married."

The jester received the intelligence with a gleam of satisfaction.
It assured him that vengeance was within his power. He cast a
look upon the unclosed grave, and his heart felt strengthened,
'* Still, my lord, I repeat my words ; perform your duty."

Be it so," replied Northumberland, reluctantly advancing to
the door of the chapel, and calling for his esquire Marchmont, to
whom he pointed out the person of Patch, and pronounced the
simple words " Arrest him. Blame not me, should Fortune have
deceived thee."

With these words the speaker quitted the spot, in order to give
directions for the departure of the prisoner, who resumed his
former attitude of prayer or mediation for the dead.

The exact date of Anne Boleyn's marriage with Henry VIII. is
uncertain. Hall, whose accuracy iu dates is remarkable, fixes it
on the 14th November, 1532 ; Stowe, on the feast of St. Paul, 25th
of January, 1533. The truth appears to be that the ceremony was
performed with so much privacy that it was only from conjecture
that any specific date was subsequently assigned. The most
decisive evidence upon the point is given by Cranmer, who in a
letter to Hawkins, ambassador at the Imperial Court, mentions that
the ceremony was performed somewhere about St. Paul's day.
The divine selected to perform the marriage was Roland Lee, who
was soon after promoted to the bishopric of Chester as a reward
for his complaisance. At an early hour, according to an old
manuscript account of the divorce presented to Queen Mary, Lee
was commanded to repair to a garret at the western extremity of
Whitehall Palace, and in that apartment the bond which afterwards
proved so fatal to two of the parties present — namely, Anne and
Sir Henry Norris, was secured ; the latter, with Ann Savage, afterwards
Lady Berkeley, were the only witnesses of the ill-fated
union, which was not publicly announced till the ensuing Easter.

The unacknowledged queen was seated in a luxurious apartment
in Hampton Court, for although not openly recognised as queen,
it was generally whispered at Court that the marriage had really
taken place, and the rumour was confirmed not only by the respect
and tenderness with which the king treated her, but by the state
which in private she hesitated not to assume. Lady Rochfort and

Lady Rivers were standing behind her chair, half familiarly and
half respectfully conversing with her, whilst a sober, acute-looking
man displayed a portrait, which he had just completed, for her
approbation. The painter was the Fleming Holbein ; the portrait
was her own.

It is like, very like," exclaimed the thoughtless woman ; " and
yet me thinks. Master Holbein, you might have done more justice
to oiu' poor merits. Painting should be something more than a
dry copy of nature, a dry detail of beauties and defects ; it should
cast its broad lights upon perfections only, and veil defect beneath
its friendly shades. Was it necessary to be so very truthful ? "

Anne alluded to the slight deformity in one of her hands, which
the truthful artist had given in the port-ait. Some chroniclers
describe this to have been an additional thumb, others as a bony
excrescence merely, which protruded from the second joint.

The Fleming bowed, and observed, as he removed the picture
from the easel, that the error should be remedied ; gallantly adding,
that the defect, like the spots upon the sun, was the only thing
which enabled men to contemplate the splendour of her beauty.

He has mistaken his vocation," whispered Lady Rochfort, as
the artist withdrew ; " he should have been a courtier, not a
painter."

The portrait was the celebrated one, known, doubtless, by the
engraving, to most of our readers, in which the second wife of
Henry is represented with her hands somewhat demurely folded
over her jewelled stomacher.

At this moment Sir Henry Norris entered the apartment. Anne
blushed at the look of open admiration with which he regarded
her, and which caused her sister-in-law and Lady Rivers to
exchange significant glances.

Speak ! " she exclaimed, starting from her seat ; " are our
orders obeyed — is the traitor found .? "

He is, most gracious madam," replied the knight, with an
affectation of respect.

And a prisoner ? "

Safe in the strong chamber of Wolsey's tower," he replied.

A smile of triumph lit the countenance of the questioner, to
whom the imprisonment or death of Patch was an object of the
utmost moment, as touching her future safety. The expression
gradually changed to one which destroyed its beauty, for it denoted
cruelty.

With an impatient wave of the hand she motioned Lady Rivers
from the apartment, and remained alone with the confidants of her
danger and her weakness. For several minutes she paced up and
down, her resolution struggling with her better nature : then
suddenly stopped, and with her tiny foot beat impatiently the
inlaid floor.

This is folly, Anne," whispered her sister-in-law ; " what you
decide must be decided quickly."

Better a thousand lives be sacrificed," added Sir Henry Norris,
than one unquiet thought should e'er disturb the security of your
repose."

I know," answered Anne Boleyn, hurriedly, " I know that he
must die, for not till he is in the grave can I believe myself a
queen ; my own safety and the fortunes of all who love me depend
upon his silence."

Be resolute," said Lady Rochfort ; " you will sleep securely
when you know that your enemy sleeps his last sleep on earth.
Had the fool resigned the letter he might have lived in dull
obscurity ; his obstinacy falls on his own head."

Were every means employed," demanded Anne, whose naturally
timid nature shrank at the thought of bloodshed, " to wring it
from him ? "

Ay," said the knight, " and some sharp ones, too ; if senseless
stones had memory or tongue, Hever Castle could tell a tale of
groans and sufferings might blanch the cheek to hear. But he was
firm ; threats passed him like the wind ; his resolution, like his
chains, was iron ; how he found strength to escape after he had
bribed his gaolers, baffles my wisdom."

Is there no other way ? " exclaimed the hesitating queen.

Perhaps," said Sir Henry, " for he hath demanded to see you ;
indeed, I am partly bound that you shall grant him audience, for
Marchmont, who delivered him into my hands, refused to do so
till I had pledged my knightly word he should have speech with
you. Such, he said, were Northumberland's commands."

Northumberland ! " repeated Anne, still further unnerved bj"
the mention of her former lover ; " this must be met at once. I'll
visit him."

On mounting the naiTow staircase which led to the strong
chamber over the archway, the queen and her attendants found the
outward room guarded by six ruffian-looking fellows, who had,
from their reckless appearance, evidently long been at odds with
fortune. Not wishing to be seen by these men, she whispered to
Norris and his companion to remain whilst she tried her eloquence
upon the prisoner, whom she vainly thought to bend or influence
to confess where he had hidden the fatal letter, the possession of
which was so necessary to her peace.

On entering the room which served as his temporary prison, she
found him calmly seated at the grated window, watching the
various constellations, which, like gems upon night's mantle,
sparkled in the heavens. So absorbed was the jester in his
occupation, that either he heard not the fairy footfall in the
chamber, or did not choose to notice it. Patch's conduct was a
puzzle sometimes to himself.

So, jester, we meet again," she exclaimed, removing her mask,
and fixing her piercing eyes upon him, " Thou hast not forgotten
me?"

The captive rose, and stripping up the sleeve of his doublet,
slowly bared his arm, displaying the shrivelled muscles and half-healed
scars, which proved how fearfully the torturers had
accomplished their task. His visitor shuddered as she gazed upon
the mute accusation of her cruelty and vengeance.

Forget you, lady ? " he replied, in a calm, passionless voice.
The miser forgets not his debtor ; and though I bide my time, the
hour for payment is but deferred — not past."

Payment ? " faltered Anne, attempting to hide beneath a smile
the secret terror which his words had occasioned. " A look, a sign
from me, and every debt is cancelled. There are those without
will strike a balance 'twixt us."

Doubtless," said the jester — " those who deal in perjury seldom
hesitate at murder."

Be advised," continued the fair speaker, regardless of the
interruption, " and resign this proof of my girlhood's folly. Do
this, and not only will I forget the past, but recompense, by future
bounties, the ills thou hast suffered from thy misplaced firmness —
load thee with wealth and honours. For know," she added, " we
have reached a height which sets all foes at nought."

True," said Patch, eying her sarcastically — " thou art married."

Anne Boleyn bowed her head in token of assent.

And that same act," continued the speaker, " which gave a
sceptre to thy hand, placed an axe in mine."

An axe ! " iterated the new-made queen, gazing upon him in
surprise not unmixed with terror.

Thou hast a dainty foot to tread the blood-stained scaffold's
creaking planks — a slender neck to meet the headsman's ofBce.
For know," he added, " that ere tomorrow's sun reaches the march
of heaven, a sure hand will place thy letter before thy jealous
husband's eyes. Henry will read thy vows of love to the deceived
and exiled Wyat — the written proofs of thy distaste of him, scorn
of his person, loathing of his passion,"

Mercy ! " exclaimed the terrified queen, clasping her hands in
agony ; " Henry will divorce me."

Divorce ! " repeated Patch, with a laugh which might have
thrilled a stouter heart than Anne's ; " no, lady — no ; Henry will
not divorce you. With Katherine of Arragon — the daughter of a
king, the niece of an emperor, the unspotted mother of his child —
such tedious process might be necessary ; but with the woman
who has sold herself for the mockery of a Crown — the woman who
has deceived him — wounded his pride, vanity, and self-love — his
subject born — there is a shorter way — the axe — the axe ! "

Although outwardly unexcited, the last words escaped from

between the speaker's clenched teeth with the vehemence of a
serpent's hiss. His late triumphant foe was completely crushed,

At this moment Sir Henry Norris and Lady Rochfort, who had
overheard every word of the conversation, entered the chamber, to
the terrified queen's relief.

Fear him not, Anne ! " exclaimed the latter, whose courage
was of the same masculine character as her mind ; " fear him not !
'Tis but a tale invented by the braggart to purchase his vile
safety."

Patch listened to her bold assertion with his usual quiet smile,
and calmly advancing to one of the corners of the room, touched a
spring concealed within the richly carved mouldings of the wainscot,
which opening discovered a secret staircase artfully formed
in one of the angular turrets of the gateway, which communicated
with a passage leading far beyond the palace ; it had been originally
contrived by Wolsey when he built Hampton Court, for what
purpose it is not now necessary to inquire. Like all his master's
secrets, the jester was well acquainted with it.

"You see," he said, "how much I value* life, when, for three
hours past, escape has been within my reach, — nay, wooing me to
tread the path of safety. Judge now how much I fear you."

He withdrew his hand as he spoke ; the panel fell into its proper
place. Incredulity itself could no longer resist so convincing a
proof of his sincerity. Anne and her companions gazed upon each
other in hopeless, dark despair. To contend with such a being
seemed like a struggle against destiny itself ; even the haughty
spirit of Lady Rochfort quailed before him.

Be merciful ! " exclaimed the agitated queen, clasping her
hands, and fixing a terrified, imploring glance upon him.

Merciful ! " iterated the jester with a laugh ; " the woman
whose mind even now was bent on murder can prate of mercy !
No," he added, sternly, " not for my own wrongs and sufferings,
but for your victim's fate, whose heart you broke, whose great soul
you crushed, o'er whose untimely grave I breathed an oath of
vengeance. I leave thee to thy fate — to Henry's mercy — to thy
deceived husband's justice."

For the sake of my unborn child ! " gasped the suppliant.
The jester started. Then, after a pause :

For thy child's sake be it so," he said ; " that is a plea
might stay the avenging angel's sword. For one year from this
day thou art safe — count every minute of thy greatness — sate thy
soul with the false glare of pomp — but when the year is past,"
he added, " expect me here again ! "

An it prove a boy," whispered Lady Rochfort to her sister-in-law,
" thou mayst defy him. The passion of Henry's life has been
to have a son. " Remorseless as he has proved himself, he will never
sacrifice the mother of his heir."

A slight pressure of the hand was the only answer the reassured
queen had strength to give.

"And now," resumed the jester, " I must away, if I am to keep
the promise pity for thy child extorted from me. I already fear,"
he added, once more regarding the heavens, " that it may prove too
late."

Fly ! " exclaimed Anne, rousing herself from the stupor into
which the agitation of the interview had thrown her ; " away at
once ! Trifle not with my life as well as thine ! "

The jester once more opened the secret panel, and pointing to
one of the torches fixed in an iron sconce against the wall, bade the
queen remove it.

For what ? " demanded Sir Henry Norris, with a look of
astonishment.

To light me through the passages," answered the singular
being, with a laugh which echoed through the chamber ; " ha ! ha !
the Queen of England performs a menial's office for the jester ! "

Never," exclaimed the indignant Lady Rochfort, " never shall
her majesty stoop to such humiliation."

She has stooped to vice," coolly answered Patch, once more
seating himself upon the oaken settle by the window ; " can she
descend much lower ? But be it at her pleasure ; / am in no hurry
to departs

It is useless," uttered the terrified Anne, conquering with a
violent effort her pride and shame, " to struggle with my fate ; I
am ready to attend him."

Grasping the torch in her delicate hand, she advanced towards
the opening, ready to descend as soon as he should give the signal.
The jester gazed upon her agitated features and heaving heart for a
few moments in silence.

Despite his sufferings, and scorn of her duplicity, the better
feelings of his nature prevailed, and he resolved to spare her this
last humiliation.

Lady," he said, removing at the same time the torch from her
trembling hand, " the lesson is complete. I will not tax thy feeble
strength. Thou now must feel there is a dignity which Crowns
cannot bestow, or tyranny destroy — the dignity of virtue. Farewell
! Use the time wisely ; the year will soon be past ; when,
true as the gnomon to the hour, we meet again."

"With these last fearful words, which showed that his purpose was
unchanged, the speaker disappeared, closing the secret entrance
after him, and leaving the inmates of the chamber in consternation
too deep to be described, too terrible for words. The knight was
the first to speak.

This is no man," he exclaimed ; " a thing of heart, of thews
and sinews, of warm flesh and blood ; but a cold, sneering devil.
We have been tricked," he added, " by a braggart's boast. Curse



on the weakness which has spared him ! Would I had riven his
body with my sword ! "

The only reply of Anne Boleyn was to point to the secret entrance,
the proof that the jester needed not their aid to have secured his
safety by flight, had he felt so disposed.

Norris was silenced.

A year," said Lady Rochfort, who was the first to recover her
self-possession, " is still before us. Wisely employed, it shall bring
us safety. Courage, Anne, courage," she continued ; " could we
but find into whose hands the letter hath been trusted, all would
still be well."

Right," added Norris, starting from his reverie ; " the jester
will doubtless direct his steps to find his confidant. He must be
watched."

By whom ? " demanded the queen.

By me," replied the knight, casting upon her a look which
the worthless sister-in-law of Anne Boleyn observed with secret
displeasure ; " to whom else would I trust the happiness of proving
useful to my queen ? This fatal letter once in your grace's hand,
leave me to deal with these same boasters."

Accomplish that, and count upon my lasting gratitude."

At this moment the sound of trumpets in the great court announced
the arrival of Henry.

Hasten to your apartment," whispered Norris ; " and deign to
excuse my absence for awhile, I ask it the more boldly as the
heavy hours will be employed in your best service, madam."

With a few hasty words of adieu, Anne once more resumed her
mask, and passing through the guard-chamber, contrived to reach
her lodgings in the palace a few minutes before Henry entered
them.

The morning after the interview between the queen and the jester
in Wolsey's gateway proved to be a bitter cold one ; the sleet,
driven by a piercing wind, fell thickly and pitilessly upon the few
straggling beings whom business or necessity compelled to tread
the streets of London. The hour was still early when a foot-passenger,
wrapped in a horseman's warm cloak, was seen to direct
his steps towards the monastery of Whitefriars, the residence of
the celebrated Fisher, Bishop of Rochester, whom Katherine of
Arragon had selected as one of her advocates in the question of her
divorce. The traveller, who was no other than our old friend
Patch, glanced keenly round the street to ascertain if he was
observed, and seeing no one but a porter who, with a bale of goods
upon his head, doubtless intended for some merchant in the City,
had followed his footsteps from Charing Cross, he rapidly plunged
down one of those narrow lanes in which the principal entrance to
the abbatial mansion stood. Before ringing at the gate he cast a
second glance around, and saw no one bit the same eternal porter,
VOL. II. R 2

who had placed his burthen at the corner of the street and was

resting himself upon it.
He rang and was admitted.
The porter no sooner saw where he entered than he quietly

resumed his burden, and continued to carry it for a short distance

down Fleet-street, till he was overtaken by a City 'prentice, to whom

he resigned it, and, placing a silver crown in his hand, walked

hastily away.

I am in luck," muttered the 'prentice ; " it is not every day 1

meet with a fool to carry my load and pay me for allowing him

to do my work. Some madman, doubtless, with more money than

wit."

The speaker was in error ; Sir Henry Norris, on the contrary,

had a great deal more wit than money.

That same night a party* of pilgrims, who had remained to

perform penance in the church, broke into Fisher's lodgings, and
ransacked his private cabinet. They were no common robbers, for
gold and many jewelled relics vere left untouched, and but a
single paper removed. Once possessed of that, they retired in
various directions, before the community could assemble to interrupt
them. That paper was the letter of Anne Boleyn to her lover
Wyat — the robber, Norris, who trusted to make it the instrument
of his amorous designs. It was some time before the jester was
made acquainted with his loss, as immediately after his interview
he had set sail for Antwerp.

Cranmer, whose convenient policy made him a favourite with
the king, by the authority of the latter held a court at Dunstable,
which place was chosen from its vicinity to Ampthill, the residence
of Katherine, who refused, however, to acknowledge its jurisdiction,
and never condescended to take the slightest notice of the
citation addressed to her. The divorce was notwithstanding duly
pronounced, and Anne Boleyn openly acknowledged as queen.

This complaisance on the part of Cranmer was the price which he
paid for the primacy which, on the death of Warham, Henry had
conferred on him.

The coronation of Anne was now determined on, and by the
splendour of its arrangements the king no doubt intended at once
to evince his contempt of Clement and the vacillating line of
conduct which the unworthy pontiff had pursued.

A few days previous to the ceremony the queen was brought in
great state from Greenwich to the Tower by water, the mayor and
aldermen of London having the charge of conveying her thither in
their barges. The boat in which the queen was seated was preceded
bj' a waster full of ordnance, in which was a dragon casting
different coloured fires about him. Then followed the barges of
the different companies, with their coverings of cloth of gold, and
in some instances hung with innumerable little bells, which

danced in the wind. On one side of the mayors barge was another
waster, on which was a mount, on the summit whereof stood a
white falcon crowned, upon a pedestal of gold, encircled with white
and red roses. Round the mount were virgins singing and playing.
This was the device of Anne, who appeared in her own barge,
attended by her father, by the Marquis of Dorset, the Earl of
Arundel, and many nobles and bishops, each one in his barge.

On landing at the Tower, Henrj^ received her with a loving kiss.
Little did the thoughtless queen, in the intoxicating triumph of
the hour, suspect how different would be her next reception there.

The next morning the queen was carried through the City in a
litter open at the top, in order that the people might behold the
object of their sovereign's affections.

On Whit-Sunday Anne went in still greater state from Westminster
Hall, where the procession assembled, to the high altar of
the Abbey ; the monks and clergy in rich copes, and most of the
nobility of the kingdom in their coronets and robes, preceded her.

Then followed the Marquis of Dorset, bearing the sceptre ; the
Earl of Arundel the rod of ivory and the dove ; and the Earl of
Oxford St. Edward's crown ; last appeared the young and lovely
queen, attired in a robe of purple velvet, under a canopy which
was held over her head by the five barons of the Cinque Ports ; the
bishops of London and Winchester held the lappets of her robe,
and the oM Duchess of Norfolk bore up her train.

During the ceremonies of her coronation the youthful queen was
attended, according to custom, throughout the day by one of the
monks of Westminster, whose duty it was to dictate the responses
she should say, and instruct her in the ceremonial as it proceeded.
Just as the primate placed the crown upon the brow of the fair
creature who knelt before him, and the shouts of all present hailed
her with the cry of " Long live the queen ! may the queen live forever
! " a single drop of blood fell apparently from the ceiling of
the church upon her neck.

What is that ? " demanded Anne of the attendant monk, who
trembled as he beheld it.

Before he could reply, Cranmer motioned him to keep silence.

The newly-crowned queen returned to her chair of state, but was
no sooner seated than she repeated the question.

Nothing, your majesty," replied Lady Rochfort, who, as her
lady of the bed-chamber, stood near the throne ; " a drop of moisture
has fallen from the roof of the church upon your highness's neck —
nothing more."

With these words the speaker applied her kerchief to remove the
stain, and pretended to be satisfied ; but whilst the anthem was
pealing in her ears, her altered look proclaimed to those who knew
her that her mind was ill at ease.

The feast was spread, according to ancient usage, in Westminster

Hall. Wyat, who had been permitted to return from exile, served
his former mistress at dinner, on the occasion, as sewer. Henry and
the ambassadors beheld the banquet from a sort of closet erected on
the north side of the hall.

During the removes, before the wafer, cup, and comfits passed
round, Anne, attended by her ladies, retired to her private chamber
there, as the old chronicler observes, to disport herself with dainty
recreations. Many a musical laugh rang 'midst the fair group, nor
was the voice of the queen silent on the occasion.

"When the mirth was at the highest, she turned suddenly to Lady
Rochf ort, and asked her for her handkerchief. The artful woman,
taken fie her guard, without a thought presented it. Anne slowly
unfolded it, and saw that it was stained with blood.

The next moment all was consternation — the queen had fainted.

CHAPTER XVI.

On reaching Antwerp, the once proud city of palaces and trade,
Walter and his youthful bride found Sir Richard Everil and his
son anxiously expecting their arrival, of which they had been
forewarned by the vigilant care of Patch, whose friendship, like
the influence of their tutelary angel, still seemed to watch over
and protect them. The hospitable old knight insisted on their
taking up their abode with him in a mansion he had purchased
close to the cathedral — that wondrous pile where religion has
enshrined itself in art. Here 'Walter had the happiness of once
more embracing his old friend. tutor,'and guardian, Father Celestine,
whose escape from the Lollards' Tower had been attended with such
fearful risks. The venerable priest wept as he blessed him and his
new-made bride.

The other inmates of their host's house were his son Edward and
the youth Louis d'Auverne, whom the jester, as our readers will
not fail to remember, had so peculiarly commended to Sir
Richard's care. The first was a religious enthusiast, deeply imbued
with those gloomy doctrines which paint the God of love as the
inexorable judge — the stern avenger ; which reject the innocent
flowers scattered by His hand to cheer man's path through life, and
find a morbid pleasure in seeking out the thorns. The second,
although fast verging into manhood, was in thought and feeling
still a child ; persecution had made him timid, but failed to chill
his confidence in human nature. Mutual suffering had made him
and Edward Everil friends ; he looked up to him as to a superior
being, and his early faith was already gradually being shaken by
the stern tenets of his companion.

As in the gradual development of our story these young men are
destined to act a conspicuous part, this slight key to their respective
characters will not be found useless to our readers.

Absorbed in their mutual happiness, here Walter and the heiress
passed the first days of their wedded life ; earth was to them a
paradise, into which no serpent as yet had crept.

About two months after their arrival they were visited by the
governor of Antwerp, Don Juan de Castro, a noble of high birth
and military reputation, whose services on the field of Paria had
won for him the confidence, nay, almost the friendship, of his
ambitious sovereign, the Emperor Charles V., to whose favour he
owed his present post ; he had but just returned from Madrid,
where he had been summoned but three days previous to the exiles'
departure from England.

The hidalgo in person was far below the average height ; he
possessed the head of a sage, placed by some caprice of nature upon
the shoulders of a dwarf. The grave melancholy of his handsome
countenance contrasted strangely with his almost child-like form,
which, although well-knit and of faultless symmetry, scarcely
reached to the shoulder of the fair one who had honoured him
with her-hand. The fair Inez had long been the reigning beauty
of Madrid, and when, at the command of the emperor, she became
the wife of his favourite general, there was no lack of epigrams to
celebrate the event. These did not entirely cease till the bridegroom
had killed three of the most distinguished wits of Spain in
single combat, after which men became careful how they spoke of
Don Juan de Castro and his beautiful wife, who, if not happy, at
least appeared reconciled to her fate.

"Welcome, lady and cavalier," said their visitor, raising his
plumed hat gracefully as Mary and Walter entered the apartment ;
welcome to Antwerp. Although the voice is that of its unworthy
governor, his words are those of a powerful prince — his gracious
master Charles the Fifth, who honours in your person the cause of
his wronged aunt, Katherine the queen. In obedience to my
instructions," continued the don, " I have given orders that apartments
should be prepared for you at the palace, where the senora
anxiously awaits the pleasure of being presented to you."

These and similar obliging offers were gratefully declined, to the
surprise and secret dissatisfaction of the governor, whose orthodox
notions of propriety were offended at the idea of guests of his
Catholic majesty residing under the same roof with a Lollard ; an
objection which the presence of Father Celestine scarcely served to
remove.

After presenting the Lady Mary with a letter from the grateful
Katherine, the visitor took a ceremonious leave, but not till he had
forced upon them an invitation to a grand fete, to be given in five
days' time, in honour of the birthday of the emperor — a courtesy

which it would have appeared ungrateful and impolitic to have
refused.

The day of the emperor's fete at last arrived, when Psalter and
Ms bride, arrayed with a simplicity suited to their present fortunes,
set forth to join the gay throng already assembled in the palace of
the governor. Mary's dress consisted of a robe of white silk,
seamed with silver, worn under a surcoat of black velvet, which,
fitting tightly to her figure, displayed to advantage her graceful
bust ; a few pearls were twisted in her luxuriant hair, which, tied
with knots of ribbon, fell in clustering curls over her fair shoulders.
The golden chain and reliquary, the princess Mary's parting gift,
hung round her lovely neck. Nor was the appearance of the gallant
bridegroom less distinguished ; his bright orange-coloured hose, of
the finest Flanders cloth, fitted with his well-knit limbs, showing
the play and movement of his muscles at every turn. As they
mounted the great staircase, adorned with orange-trees and flowers,
and lined by the Spanish guard, a murmur of admiration was
distinctly audible ; in sooth, a nobler pair had seldom pressed the
marble steps.

In a rich saloon hung with the precious tapestries of Flanders,
under a canopy adorned with the arms of Spain and Germany,
stood the governor and his lady to receive the assembled guests.
The person of the former we have already described, but to the
beauty of the latter it would require the pen of a poet or the skill
of a Titian to do full justice. It was of that graceful, goddess-like
style which kindled admiration in some hearts more frequently
than love. Her hair, black as the raven's wing, 'Cras gathered in a
net of silver filigree, adorned with gems, whose lustre was eclipsed
by the brilliant expression of her soul-subduing eyes — whose
glances, when shaded by the passionate dreams of her young heart,
rivalled the coruscation of the diamond, or the melting tenderness
of the dove. Her countenance was as changeable in its expression
as the surface of a lake, which reflects alike the gathering tempest
and sleeping sunbeam. Her form, as stately as the antelope's, was
draped in a ruby-coloured velvet robe, which displayed to
perfection its statue-like proportions ; the rich jewels which hung
upon her arms and neck veiled rather than added to their dazzling
beauty. She had been listening with a stately coldness to the
compliments addressed to her by the heavy Flemish nobles and
dignified Spaniards who formed a circle round her. When the
English exiles were presented to her, both Walter and his bride
thought they had never gazed upon a form more faultless, or a
brow more fair. As with an animated air she returned their
salutation, the listlessness of expression gradually gave place to one
of interest and pleasure, and her face became radiant with smiles.

"You are welcome — most welcome," she exclaimed, ''to outdoor
festival ; but it is not thus I would have met you, surrounded by

a crowd and idle ceremony, in which the heart is chilled and the
lips bound by cold observance. Here," she added in a half-reproachful
tone, " you should have been my guests, not formal
visitors."

The little governor cast a surprised and puzzled look of inquiry
ripon his wife, who had expressed bitter disappointment when he
had made known to her the wish of his sovereign that the English
strangers should be lodged in his own palace and treated as his
guests — he did not as yet fully comprehend her.

After wandering some time through the rooms, Walter led his
companion to a seat formed in an alcove, shaded by citron trees and
rare exotics, where the guests, like moving pictures, passed in
review before them.

How beautiful ! " exclaimed Mary, who was delighted with the
novelty of the scene ; " and yet," she added, " it is sad to think that
in a few brief years all who are here assembled — the brave, the
young, the fair and happy — will have passed away like summer's
flowers, and only leave a memory and a name."

No more ! " exclaimed a deep voice near them.

They started, for they had not perceived the approach of the
speaker, a slim figure, in a plain Spanish dress, whose features
were closely masked. There was something in the tone of the
voice which impressed them with the idea that they had heard it
before, but it was slightly altered by the mask.

A countryman ? " said Walter, for the stranger had spoken in
English.

The mask bowed, and quietly took a seat beside them.

Have you lately arrived from England ? " demanded the Lady
Mary, hesitatingly.

But six hours since."

Then," said Walter, " you can perhaps inform me of the fate of
those in whom we are most interested. Does Henry still pursue
his former favourite to destruction, or hath his heart relented ? "

The cardinal of York is now where Henry's friendship or
Henry's hate are alike indifferent. Wolsey sleeps his last sleep in
Leicester's holy pile."

"Dead ! " exclaimed the exiles, in a voice of deep emotion, for
theirs were not the hearts to forget the favours they had received
at his once powerful hands.

The tears of the young bride fell fast as she remembered the
interest which the cardinal had taken in her fate — his presence at
the scene of her brave cousin's death — his sudden appearance on
her trial, and subsequent protection.

malady," said the stranger, "these tears are Wolsey's noblest
epitaph. Wealth may command the marble's stately lie, the
herald's blazon, and the poet's verse, giving to infamy the reward
of honour ; but one simple tear on grateful virtue's cheek is praise

which speaks the judgment of the heart. I should prefer it to a
hundred tombs."

Henry," said Walter, " has lost the glory of his reign, learning
its patron, England its statesman, and I," added he, in a melancholy
tone, " a generous benefactor — a. liberal friend."

And Anne Boleyn ? " inquired the heiress ; " her ambitious
dream "

At last is gratified," answered the stranger ; " she is queen.
But the crown," he continued, bitterly, " will prove a burden to
her aching brow, the sceptre tire her hand. Her path lies by the
precipice — death lies in ambush 'neath her very steps."

I envy not her greatness," observed the fair questioner.

Nor I her husband," drily added their singular companion ;
but tell me, are there no other friends, no nearer ties whose fate
may interest you ? "

Yes," exclaimed Mary, " there is one who " Here the

speaker suddenly paused as her eye met Walter's. The name of
the jester was in the thought of both, but prudence whispered to
name him not.

Who — what ? " demanded the mask.

Must not be named," said Walter, in a decided tone, for he
began to entertain suspicion that his countryman might prove to
be a spy.

Perhaps," observed the stranger, with a bitterness of tone which
contrasted harshly with his previous voice, " he you would name
may be of lowly birth — one poor in the world's gifts, of mean
estate, despised of those who judge by glare and tinsel ; if so, you
are wise — most wise to forget him,"

He I would name," replied Walter, haughtily, for he was now
confirmed in his suspicion, " was Wolsey's friend, who trusted few
men lightly ; his birth I reck not ; but his mind is noble, stored
with such generous qualities as dwell in good men's hearts."

Ah ! you mean Cromwell ? "

No."

"Or Cavendish, the usher of his grace ? "

Nor he."

"You cannot mean his worthless jester, Patch ? "

Worthless ! " exclaimed the indignant Walter, now thoroughly
thrown off his guard by the slander of the man who had proved
himself so true a friend, " To some minds virtue is ever worthless ;
there are men who judge mankind after their own vile standard,
and you, sir, seem of these."

The speaker had started from his seat, and with flushed brow
stood gazing upon the intruder, who, with provoking calmness,
remained quietly by the side of the Lady Mary, who for sometime
had been regarding him. To her husband's astonishment,
she gradually passed one arm round the shoulder of the stranger,

and with her disengaged hand removed his mask. In an instant
the young man's anger was changed to joy — he beheld his old
friend Patch.

I am a fool," said Walter, as he pressed him warmly by the
hand ; " I ought to have known the tree, from its bitter fruit ; but
prithee, friend, blaspheme no more 'gainst friendship and thyself."

Lady," said the jester, with a smile, " you have saved me from
a false position. After such commendation, modesty had glued
my mask so tightly to my face, I should have risked my skin ere
I removed it."

Had I but known, I would have caught thee," continued his
friend, " like a woodcock in thine own springe — have probed that
moral ulcer of thy mind, which makes thee doubt of all but vice,
mistrusting thyself e'en more than thou mistrusted virtue."

One thing is certain," replied the cynical being, shaking his
head mournfully at the accusation, " that I mistrust not thee. But
tell me," he added, willing to change the subject, which was
evidently a painful one, " how likest thou this gay mart of commerce
and beauty ? Look t* him, lady ; here are flashing eyes and
stately forms, lips that persuade feeble hearts to play the truant."

The young bride raised her eyes to the features of her husband,
and saw a look so full of tenderness and love, that she smiled at
the half-playful, half-mischievous caution of the speaker.

I fear them not," answered the Lady Mary ; " they must have
hearts as well as eyes to win him."

And even then," said Walter, " they would fail. Mine is so
full of thee, it hath scant room for any second guest. But how
knew you we were here .? "

From Sir Richard Everil," said Patch ; " and so, the governor
and I being old friends, I took a gossip's leave, and came in search
of you. Have you seen his wife ? "

I have."

And what think you of her ? " demanded his questioner, who
had been an observer of the interview, and watched the expression
of the lady's countenance.

"That she is beautiful," replied his friend, in an unembarrassed
manner, which showed that for the present he at least was heart-whole,
" perhaps too beautiful ; more of humanity would please
me better — to me there is always something heartless in a faultless
face." The jester smiled, for the opinion was his own.

Anxious to converse without restraint, the three friends returned
to the grand saloon, to make their excuses and adieux to their
hospitable host. The governor bowed gravely as he listened to them ;
and the fair brow of his wife, before all radiant in smiles, became
suddenly clouded.

So soon ! " she exclaimed ; " not at least till you have partaken
of our worthless banquet."

The courtesy was again gratefully declined ; but Walter and his
bride were not permitted to depart till they had promised their
fair hostess speedily to renew their visit at her villa beyond the
Mechlin gate, — "where," she observed, "she could receive her
guest without the form which surrounded her in the city, whereas
wife of the governor, she was compelled to hold a kind of petty
court."

Farewell," she softly murmured, as Walter, according to Spanish
etiquette, bent to kiss her hand. The word was accompanied by a
look which, but for his love for the heiress, would have dwelt Ivng
upon his memory. Fortunately Patch was the only person who
noticed it ; but, indeed, few things escaped the jester's vigilance.

She certainly is very beautiful," said the young man, as they
descended the marble stairs.

And seems as good as she is lovely," added the Lady Mary.

Their companion heard both the observations, but continued silent.

It soon became evident that the Lady Inez had conceived a violent
friendship for the gentle English girl, whose quiet nature contrasted
so strongly with her own ; not but that the fair Spaniard could be
quiet, too, when it answered her purpose. To Walter she
displayed an easy, polite indifference, leaving the little don to
dispose of his time either in hawking, or in hunting the wild boar
a species of game still occasionally found in the woods lying
between Antwerp and Malines. To please his wife, whose will on
most points was law, the governor had even consented that the
Lollards, as he disdainfully termed them, should be sometimes
invited to the villa ; and Edward Everil and Louis d'Auverne
became in time frequent guests there. The latter, since the arrival
of Patch, had shaken off, though bit in a slight degree, the influence
which his companion exercised over him.

The heart of the poor boy was naturally affectionate and trusting ;
the jester's countenance and Walter's example bade him look upon
the world as something brighter than a vale of tears. They
impressed him with the conviction that there was sunshine too.

It was at the close of a sultry day that the strangers were assembled
at the villa, for in the summer Inez seldom visited the city. The
governor, during his noon repast, had received a summons of so
important a nature that he left his meal unfinished, and despite the
burning heat, started on horseback for Antwerp, — not, however,
without offering his usual punctilious excuses to his visitors.
There had been a pause towards the evening ; conversation had
become languid, when some one proposed that they should sally
forth to meet Don Juan de Castro on his return ; an idea which
seemed to hit the taste of all, for it was instantly adopted, and the
party sallied forth, the lady of the mansion leaning on the arm of
Walter, and the Lady Mary accompanied by Louis, Edward, and
others of the guests.

As they proceeded, the party gradually got dispersed, and "Walter
and Inez found themselves alone in one of the most retired parts
of the wood, into which they had strayed, unintentionally no
doubt. It was a night such as love revels in. The light was of
that mellow tone which golden sunset and the rising moon cast on
the twilight east. At such an hour and in such a place the lovely
Spaniard was a dangerous companion.

How often have I wished at such an hour," sighed the fair
siren, " that destiny had cast my lot far from the world's vain
grandeurs, and that with one loved object I had lived in peace,
listening to no deeper music than the song-bird's note, breathing
no richer perfume than the wild flower's breath. Alas ! why
was not such a fate reserved for me ? "

For you, lady," replied her companion, •' you who are born to
rule a court — whose queen-like step mocks the dull earth it treads
on ! — a cottage and a rustic life for you ! You jest."

The heart never jests — and 'twas from the heart I spake."

This is a thought of sadness, lady," continued the young man,
moved by the melancholy tone in which she answered him ; " one
of those spots upon the sun's bright disc, which aid us to bear its
lustre, or jealous cloud marring a summer sky. With your lord's
return, I shall again behold thy beauty decked in smiles and
gladness."

In smiles," repeated Inez, " possibly ; but never more in
gladness ; that hath been long an exile from my breast. Mine,"
she added, " is a wayward nature — my smiles are for those I love
not ; my tears for those I love. Fools who think that gems upon
the brow can heal the wound which rankles in the heart, deem
that I am happy, envy me. Heaven ! " she continued, pressing her
hand on Walter's arm, " they little know the wretchedness they
envy."

Wretchedness ! " exclaimed Walter, deeply moved, " impossible !
Thou hast station, wealth, thy husband's love, the world's respect.
What would'st thou more ? "

A heart to feel with mine," replied Inez, passionately — " a soul
to comprehend me — a temple where I could enshrine myself, and
know no world beyond. Canst thou not," she continued, moving
her ivory arm from his, and passing it gradually round his neck,
imagine to a nature framed like mine the strength of such a love ? "

"Lady," said Walter, faintly struggling with his resolution, for
it was scarcely in human virtue to resist the glance, the intoxicating
dream of such a passion, " tempt not humanity beyond its strength.
Let us return ; our absence will be made the theme of comment."

Ingrate," softly sighed the temptress, at the same time letting
her head sink upon his shoulder, and raising her eyes, no longer
brilliant, but subdued by languor, to his, " thousands have sighed
to gain the heart which only beats for thee,"

How the struggle between virtue and temptation would have
ended it is impossible to decide, for at this moment the voice of
Patch was heard calling on Walter from a thicket near them.
Pressing a burning kiss upon his lips, the guilty woman — guilty
in heart, at least — started from his embrace, and fled by a narrow
footpath towards the villa.

Thank Heaven ! " sighed Walter, " she is gone, and I can still
respect myself and meet my Mary's smile. We must never meet
alone again. The cup of Circe is less dangerous than her beauty."

Halloa, Walter ! " continued the jester, advancing still nearer
towards the spot where the speaker stood. " So," said Patch, " thou
art found at last. Prithee, man, what has detained thee ? a sonnet
to the moon ? or hath some wood nymph crossed thy path while
gazing on the stars ? "

Neither," replied his friend, holding out his hand to him ;
but for once a truce to jesting. Never came friend more welcome
to his friend than thou to me this hour."

Truly ? " replied the jester, fixing an inquiring glance upon
him,

Truly," repeated Walter ; " dost thou doubt me ? "

Then all is well," said Patch, " and now let's in together, Don
Juan de Castro has arrived and twice demanded you ; it seems his
sudden departure for Antwerp had some relation unto us. We
must return to-night,"

On entering the saloon where the party were once more
assembled, Walter found his fair hostess seated by the side of his
unsuspecting wife. All trace of passion or excitement had
disappeared from the features of the Lady Inez. The young
man shuddered as he remembered the words she had so lately
uttered in his hearing, that her smiles were for those she loved not.
And there she sat, like some demon clothed in light, smiling on
his wife.

As the two friends entered the room the governor advanced to
meet them, and drawing them into one of the recesses formed by
the projecting windows, conversed with them for a considerable
time, but in so low a tone that even the watchful ear of the lady
of the villa failed to catch a word. From his calm manner she
judged, however, and truly, that her husband had no suspicion of
her interview with Walter in the wood ; and that conviction
reassured her.

I have ordered the escort to remain," said Don Juan de Castro,
as he advanced with his guests into the centre of the apartment to
take leave of his wife. " They will ride with you through the
wood."

What ! " exclaimed Inez ; " do you depart to-night ? "

Intelligence has arrived which compels me," replied Walter ;
my lord will be my voucher."

The governor bowed in confirmation of his words.

I cannot part with all my guests at once," said their hostess ;
at least, let my fair friend remain."

Walter felt, he knew not why, a sudden disinclination to be
separated, even for an hour, from his young bride, especially
under the roof of the governor s lady. Throwing his arm round her
waist, he answered, playfully, that she was used to travel, and that
a night ride of a few miles was soon achieved. A look of gratitude
from the Lady Mary thanked her husband for deciding for her.
Inez beheld that look ; and the pang it caused her jealous heart
atoned, if suffering could atone, her folly.

The great bell of the cathedral struck the hour of twelve as the
travellers drew rein before the mansion of Sir Richard Everil.
Walter and Patch, however, did not enter ; but after seeing their
companion safely housed, they made their way, according to the
governor's instructions, to the church of the Dominicans, so well
known in Antwerp.

Who can this stranger be, or what his errand ? " demanded
Walter of his companion, as they walked along.

The jester suggested that it was probably a messenger from the
emperor.

Their curiosity was soon gratified, for on reaching the church in
question they found a brother waiting for them, who, after ascertaining
that they were the right parties, conducted them to the
house of the superior, where they were presented to a short,
shrewd-looking man, dressed in black velvet, but without any
ensign to mark his rank beyond those nameless characteristics
which denote the gentleman. He bowed as his visitors approached,
but without quitting his chair or removing the plumed hat which
partially shaded his countenance. The superior of the Dominicans,
with folded arms, stood beside him,

Welcome, gentlemen," he exclaimed, in a low, musical voice.
Don Juan has doubtless informed you that I am commissioned
by the emperor to inquire from your own lips what more is in his
power to offer to prove his gratitude for your service in the cause
of his unhappy aunt."

For myself," said Walter, " the friendship of the governor, and
the generous protection of his majesty, leave me nothing more to
ask."

"And I," said the jester, " have done little to merit either your
master's interest or his favour."

I fear me, then," said the stranger, " my mission will be vain,
for Charles has a service to solicit at your hands of too much
danger to be lightly undertaken, or meanly paid when done."

Does your monarch think," demanded Patch, " that services
are only to be bought ? — that men sell deeds of honour as vile
hucksters barter merchandise for the ignoble gain ? 'Tis a

common error, this mistrust of human nature — monarchs should
be above it. Name the service"' he added, "and if honour
sanctions it, or courage can achieve it, tell your imperial master to
conclude it done."

The Spaniard fixed his eyes upon the speaker with a searching
glance, as if he would read his very thoughts ; but the jester met
his regard with a look as haughty as his own. The former was
the first to speak.

Katherine of Arragon," he said, " crushed by her wrongs and
her false husband's tyranny, draws near her end. The injured
queen hath not, perchance, another month to live."

Her throne hath proved to her a seat of thorns," observed the
jester ; " earth hath few ties to bind her."

You forget one," interrupted the stranger ; " she is a mother."

True," said Patch ; " I imagined you thought only of the
queen."

Henry," continued the envoy, his pale face flushed with anger
as he spoke, " refuses her the last consolation left a dying mother's
heart — her child's embrace — unless she admits the dishonour of
her blood, and acknowledges the divorce which placed Anne
Boleyn on the throne."

And Charles," observed the jester with a sneer, " feels for the
honour of his aunt more than the yearnings of her love."

The friends of the unhappy queen," added the speaker, without
heeding the interruption, "who reside in England are strictly
watched. The Lady Salisbury, under whose ward the Princess
Mary lies, hath, after much prayer, consented to conceal her
highness's absence for three days to visit her dying mother,
receive her blessing, and her last embrace."

"And the service you demand ? " said "Walter.

Is to proceed to England, conduct the princess to her mother,
guide her in safety back, and then return."

When must we depart ? "

To-morrow."

As soon as the bark is ready we set sail ; but how," continued
our hero, " am 1 to obtain the confidence of Lady Salisbury, to
whom I am a stranger ? "

That," replied the envoy, " is provided for : " here the speaker
drew a gem ring from his finger, and placed it in Walter's
hand ; " this token will prove a pledge between you."

Farewell ! " said Walter. " Should I fall in the attempt, I
trust to Charles's honour to protect my helpless wife."

Doubt not his gratitude," . replied the stranger, " or my
promise."

What think you of our expedition, Patch ? " demanded his
companion, as they left the church of the Dominicans. " Why,
man, thou art as silent as the graves we tread upon. Dost thou

suspect treachery ? " lie whispered, for the idea struck him that
the envoy might be an agent sent by the vindictive Henry to entrap
him into his power.

The world is full of treachery," answered the jester, " and he
thrives best who is best prepared to meet it."

Ha ! this is no envoy from the emperor ? "

"No."

I guessed as much."

Unless," continued Patch, with a smile, '• a man can be an
envoy from himself."

What mean you ? "

That we have spoken face to face with Charles the Fifth. The
envoy is the emperor himself."

The following morning a vessel, well armed, under the Spanish
flag, sailed from Antwerp — Walter and Patch were both on board.

Immediately after the birth of the Princess Elizabeth, a second
attempt was made to overcome the resistance of Katherine of
Arragon to the divorce which Cranmer had pronounced ; her
daughter Mary was inhumanly taken from her, and every indignity
offered which it was thought could subdue her lofty spirit. But
the repudiated queen, whose maternal tenderness, far more even
than her pride, instigated her to resistance, refused, to her last
moments, to accede to a sentence compliance with which would
have degraded her in the eyes of the country, and injured the
prospects of her daughter with regard to the succession, by casting
the stain of illegitimacy upon her birth. Katherine was still,
therefore, treated as queen by her attendants ; nor would she suffer
any person to enter her presence who had presumed to address herby
an inferior title.

The constitution of the unhappy wife and mother at last gave
way. As the hour of her death drew near she entreated to be
permitted once more to embrace her child, a request which Henry
brutally refused, unless she first subscribed to the divorce, a copy
of which was sent her for that purpose.

Upon a couch in one of the large rooms in the old manor of
Kimbolton reclined the wasted form of Katherine of Arragon.
Her disease was a broken heart. Lady Willoughby, the attached
friend of the queen, hung over her couch. On the first intelligence
of her danger, she had flown on the wings of friendship to console
her, and her arrival was quickly followed by Eustachio Chapels,
the ambassador of Charles V., whom Henry despatched to visit her
not from any lingering tenderness towards the woman whose
affection he had so cruelly requited, but that his presence might
give the lie to any rumours of unfair practices which were sure to
be circulated by the enemies of Anne Boleyn in the event of her
death.

Sir John Perrot, who had been the bearer of the conditions upon

VOL. II, 3 2

the acceding to which she was to be permitted to behold the
Princess Mary, was in the room. Courtier as he was, even his
callous nature was moved at the suffering's of the mother and the
woman, and he quitted the apartment till she should come to a
decision.

This is agony," sighed the queen, gazing with an irresolute eye
upon the paper, her signature to which would secure the last
happiness which she was capable on earth of tasting. " None buta
heart of iron could make a mother's love for her poor child the
means to torture her."

Henry," said Eustachio, " is well skilled in finding out the
means of cruelty."

Not Henry," interrupted Katherine, " but Anne Boleyn. Oh !
may she one day reap the harvest she has sown ! May he prove
as obdurate to her prayer as she has tutored him to prove to mine !
It is not much," she added, bursting into tears, " for a dying mother
to solicit at their hands — a last kiss from her child ere her lips
become cold and insensible to native's sweet caress, her ears dull
to affection's voice."

Heaven at last," cried the sorrowing Lady Willoughby, " will
requite her."

I am becoming weak," said the dying woman, knitting her
brow with sudden resolution ; "feeling is at war with judgment.
Strange that the heart should be the last to die. I must not suffer
the strong cry of nature to shake my steadfast purpose. Raise me,"
she added, " raise me for one moment."

Her weeping attendants did as she desired.

Now, then, call in the messenger."

Sir John Perrot re-entered the apartment.

Witness all," she continued, tearing, with a strong effort, the
paper which she held in her hand, and by that act rendering all
compromise between honour and nature impossible, for her very
hours were numbered, " that I deny the sentence which has robbed
me of a crown, my daughter of her birthright ; and that I die as I
have lived, the queen, the lawful wife of Henry."

Exhausted by the effort, she sank fainting into the arms of her
supporters.

Decided like the daughter of a king of Spain," exclaimed the
ambassador, whose great aim was to prevent a compromise, which
would have so deeply wounded the pride and honour of his master,

Decided like a mother," added Lady "Willoughby, whose tears
half-choked her utterance.

Here my mission ends," said Sir John Perrot, kneeling at the
foot of the couch, and kissing the cold hand of Katherine ; " would
that, consistently with honour, it could have met a different
termination ! "

In a few moments he had left the manor-house.

No sooner had Henry's messenger departed, than Eustachio
proceeded to one of the windows, and blew with a silver whistle
three distinct notes. The signal caught the attention of the queen,
who faintly demanded what new trials awaited her.

Ere the ambassador could answer, a horseman, stained with
travel, and wrapped in a huge cloak, entered the apartment : a
young girl accompanied him. The horseman was our old friend
Walter, the maiden the Princess Mary, whom he had succeeded in
conveying from Lady Salisbury's protection to the couch of her
dying mother.

Mary ! " exclaimed Katherine, throwing her arms with
passionate tenderness round her, and clasping her to her breast
with all the energy of maternal love ; " the last wish of my broken
heart is granted, the last desire of my dim eyes fulfilled ! I once
more bless my child — feel her soft kiss upon my lips — her warm
tears on my cheek — gaze upon her without one blush of shame ;
for not even for the bliss of thus beholding and of blessing her
have I forgot I was a queen, or tampered with her birthright. I
bless thee," she continued, " with a dying mother's blessing ! The
orphan's God become a parent to thee — sustain and strengthen thee
with signal mercies ! Should He reserve thee for a crown,
remember all but thy mother's enemies — leave them to His judgement
whose strong arm hath sustained thee ! Nearer," she added,
nearer to my heart. My eyes grow dim. Bury me like a queen.
Henry — pray for him, Mary. My heart, my heart is broken ! "

With these words the suffering spirit of Katherine of Arragon
passed from earth for ever.

CHAPTER XVII.

In a rude hut, fast by a stagnant pool,

Dwells the weird woman ; good men shun her door,

Or mutter prayers as with a hasty step

They pass her dwelling by ; for she hath skill

To blight the cattle, and dry up the springs

Which }\iake the green earth fruitful. — " The Witch-Finder."

Amongst the m:;,ny waiters upon fortune in the Court of Henry
VIII. was the Viscount Lisle, the eldest son of that Edmund
Dudley whom Henry VII. made, conjointly with Richard Empson,
surveyor of his Commission of Forfeitures — perhaps the most
iniquitous means ever yet employed by an English monarch to
extort wealth from an oppressed and impoverished people. The
mode of proceeding was by means of spies and informers, to find
out all those persons of good estate who had in any way offended
against the penal statutes, and to exact large fines as the price of
their pardon from the king. Although the mere tools of Henry in

the gratification of the ruling passion of his existence, avarice, on
his death the popular indignation against them became so strong
that it was felt necessary to sacrifice them. They were accordingly
committed to the Tower, and shortly after tried and executed.
Thus while the regal robber slept in his gorgeous tomb at Westminster,
the instruments of his cupidity paid the penalty of his
crimes.

Henry VIII. was so sensible of the iniquity of the sentence, that
in 1511 he raised John Dudley, the son of the legally-murdered
man, to the dignity of viscount ; restoring to him at the same time
a portion of his father's confiscated estates. The Dudley, it must
be remembered, were of ancient descent. Edmund, during his
imprisonment in the Tower, wrote a singular book, entitled " The
Tree of the Commonwealth," with the intention of conciliating the
favour of the young king ; but it is questioned whether he ever
saw it. It was afterwards discovered by Stowe, who transcribed
and presented the copy to the Earl of Warwick, the author's
descendant ; the Earl cf Oxford purchased the original.

But for the family of the unfortunate Empson nothing was done ;
perhaps, as their father was only the son of a sieve-maker, Henry
felt but little interest in their fate.

The young viscount, destined to act so conspicuous a part in the
following reign, in his boyhood had been indebted to Katherine
of Arragon for protection and advancement ; but no sooner did the
star of Anne Boleyn appear in the ascendant, than he became one
of its enthusiastic and most assiduous worshippers ; and the new
queen rewarded his devotion by frequently employing him on
errands of confidence and secrecy.

On the evening of the day on which Sir John Perrot had been
despatched to Kimbolton with Henry's cruel decision to the dying
Katherine, that she must either admit the validity of the divorce
or forego the happiness of embracing her child, a grand masque
was held at York House, once the seat of Wolsey, but now the
property of the rapacious king.

On the 15th of September, scarcely five months after her coronation,
the queen had been delivered of a girl, to the great disappointment
of Henry, who passionately desired a son. The royal infant
was nursed in the palace of the Bishop of Winchester, at Chelsea,
and her household arranged as that of the presumptive heir to the
Crown as soon as she had attained the age of three months.

About this time it began to be whispered amongst the ladies of
the bedchamber that Anne Boleyn was again likely to become a
mother.

The masque was one of those stately unmeaning pageants in
which Henry so much delighted, but which at the present day
would be considered as a dull amusement, even by the most slavish
of the worshippers of the past. The king, who, from his increasing

obesity, seldom joined in the dance, played at shovel-board with
hie brother-in-law, the Duke of Suffolk, and a knot of favourite
courtiers, who vied with each other for the honour of emptying
their purses with the royal gamester, and amongst whom Viscount
Lisle, or Dudley, as we shall for the future call him, was most
conspicuous ; he had for some time been intriguing for the post of
Lord Admiral, and neglected no means that might ingratiate himself
with his capricious monarch and the queen, however vile and
unworthy. Anne had just finished dancing with the Duke of
Richmond, Henry's natural son, who had been educated by
Wolsey, and who, had he lived, would doubtless have been placed
in succession to the Crown before either of his daughters by his
father, who evinced much love towards him, and deeply mourned
his untimely end. The joyous, thoughtless woman was about to
resume her chair of state, when her evil genius. Lady Rochfort,
approached, and whispered to her that Smeton had returned.

"Admit him," said the queen, carelessly.

Impossible, your majesty; he has ridden hard, and is in no
fitting habit for such a presence."

Tell him," said Anne, after a few moments' reflection, and in
the same undertone, " to make his way to the terrace ; from the
window of my closet I can speak with him ; and you," she added,
rejoin me here."

In a few minutes the speaker, complaining of the heat of the
apartment, which was no other than Wolsey's banqueting-hall,
made her excuses to the king, and retired. Henry regarded her
with a complacent smile, which the mirror-like features of the
courtiers instantly reflected.

Her majesty seems slightly indisposed," observed Brandon.

Qualms, women's qualms," said Henry. " Anne hath promised
me there shall be no disappointment this time. An she make me
father of a boy, we'll have a christening, lords, shall cause pale
cheeks in Rome. Strange," he added, musingly, " that hungry
knaves, the very serfs of the earth, should have strong sons born
daily, hourly, to them ; whilst I, who have a kingdom to bequeath,
have only puling girls to heir me."

The crowd of courtiers could only express their conviction that
the next would be a prince.

I trust so," muttered Henry, moodily ; " if not. — well — we shall
see — we shall see."

The king returned to his game ; and the friends of Anne Boleyn,
who marked his manner, secretly prayed that her next child might
prove a boy : their fortunes depended on it.

Now, Smeton," exclaimed the impatient Anne to a tall, dark-looking
personage, who, Wrapped in a horseman's cloak, stood
conversing with her at the Avindow of her closet, " what intelligence
? Are my suspicions true ? or was the assertion of Eustachio

that the Princess Dowager of Wales and the Lady Mary yet
should meet — an emptj- boast ? "

Most true, your majesty," replied the messenger. " Last night
we watched the house of the Lady Salisbury, and saw her ward,
the Lady Mary, leave the manor, attended by two horsemen."

Art sure ? "

Most certain. Despite her disguise, I knew her person well ;
fear was in every look. Fast as their panting steeds could carry
them they crossed the chase, and took the road to Kimbolton."

And who," she demanded, " were the companions of her
flight ? — surely not the ambassador of Sain ? "

No, gracious lady," answered Smeton ; " one was a stranger tome,
but I am sure that it was not Eustachio. The other was as
well known to me as to your grace— Wolsey's late jester, Patch."

Patch ! " cried, or rather almost shrieked, the conscience-stricken
queen ; " hath he returned to cross my path once more ? "

Madam ! " exclaimed the astonished messenger, wondering at
her sudden terror.

"Fear not," whispered Lady Rochfort, drawing near to her
trembling sister-in-law ; " the serpent's fangs are drawn. Without
the letter he is as powerless as the dust thou treads on."

Perhaps," said Anne, " perhaps. I know not why, but I fear
that man ; his image haunts me sometimes in my dreams. I see
him," she added, " with his cold sarcastic smile, pointing to the
axe. He is my destiny, and I cannot avoid him."

But you can silence him," replied her companion. " Take
courage — I tell you he is powerless. Shall I send for Norris ? "

No — at least not for the present. Smeton," said the queen,
advancing once more to the window, " we are again your debtor ;
fear not but we will find a time to well requite your service ; meanwhile,
be this the gage of our intention and good favour."

The imprudent queen placed in his hand a ring of price, which
Henry had lately given her, and motioning that their conference
was ended, closed the window.

"Why not intrust Norris with this affair?" demanded Lady
Rochford.

Because he hath taken an ungenerous advantage of my secret,
and refuses the fatal letter to my prayers. Were that destroyed, I
should breathe freely, scoff at the frowns of fate, and hold capricious
fortune as my slave ; but as it is, I am racked by doubts
which sometimes freeze the smile upon my lips."

He holds it as the pledge of payment of his services," answered
the confidante, coolly ; " sovereigns have fickle memories."

i" And knowest thou, Rochfort," inquired Anne, " the kind of
^ payment he expects ? "
„ "Doubtless the promised earldom," replied his infatuated

\ mistress, fixing a keen look of suspicion upon the speaker, whom

she had more than once seen regarded by Norris with passionate
admiration.

Perhaps," said the queen, vvith a laugh, which even at that
moment, from the natural levity of her disposition she could not
resist — '' perhaps. I thought he had higher views."

He must forget them, then," exclaimed Lady Rochfort, in a
voice so harsh and deep that the thoughtless Anne was startled.
Death lies crouching in the path you glance at ; let him advance
one step, and "

■■' Tut — tut ! Art jealous, sister ? "

"Not jealous," replied the excited woman; "not jealous, but
forewarned."

The complaisant Dudley was finally summoned to the presence
of Anne Boleyn, and trusted with the secret of the Princess Mary's
visit to Kimbolton, where he was directed instantly to follow her,
and on her return to bring both her and her companions to London.

By this stroke of policy the queen trusted to secure the downfall
of the three persons whom she most feared — the Princess Mary,
the jester, and the aged Countess of Salisbury — who Avould all
three be caught in breaking the commands of the king without the
possibility of denial or excuse.

Accomplish this with your usual skill," said Anne, " and the
post of Lord Admiral shall be yours ; that is," she added, with a
smile, " if our weak means may help you to it."

Before the speaker returned to the masque, the expeditious
Dudley, attended by a party of men on whom he could rely, was
on his road to Kimbolton.

Our readers must remember that the scene and events above
narrated took place previous to the death of the high-minded
Katherine of Arragon, described in our last chapter.

When the queen was dead, Mary rose from the couch where
she had knelt, and imprinted a last kiss upon the lips of her parent,
whose eyes she closed with her ovv^n hand. This pious duty done,
she retired, leaning on the arm of Lady Willoughby, to the chapel,
there to prostrate herself before the altar to compose her soul by
prayer. Although outwardly calm, it was evident to her companion,
who had known her from infancy, that' she was deeply moved.
No sooner did she reach the marble steps leading to the altar than
she released the arm of her companion, and, with a firm step,
advanced to the uppermost. Placing her hand upon the crucifix,
she exclaimed, in a voice so deep, yet low, that it scarcely broke
the stillness of the sacred place :

Mother, I will avenge thee ! In a prison, in exile, or on the
throne, that one thought shall ever be present to my memory — be
graven on my heart. Upon thy persecutors' heads, upon their
children and their children's children, will I, if possible, visit thy
broken heart, thy tears and wrongs, thy outraged honour, and thy

patient suffering. I'll give thee blood for tears, groans for thy
sighs, and death for thy disgrace. Thy daughter's heart shall prove
as deaf to their prayers of mercy as they have proved to thee.
Agnus Dei qui tolls peccant mundi'' she added, bowing before the
sacred symbol, " may thy smile welcome me to paradise, or thy
wrath consume me, as I keep or break my oath ! "

There was something fearful in the cold, pitiless resolution and
determined hate of one so young. Her aged companion shuddered
as she listened to it. How Mary kept her oath history explains too
well.

A few minutes after the above incident, whilst the princess was
engaged in reciting a De Profundity for the dead, the Spanish
ambassador, Eustachio, entered the chapel. Approaching the
object of his search, he silently stood beside her, holding in his
hand a letter sealed with the broad seal of her cousin, the Emperor
Charles V.

For me ? " said Mary, as soon as she had finished her devotions.

The diplomatist half bent the knee as he presented it.

The princess broke the seal, and rapidly glanced over its contents ;
as she did so her pale cheek became flushed, partly with anger and
partly with surprise. Fixing her eyes upon the messenger, she
exclaimed :

Have I read rightly ? Without consulting our dead mother's
pleasure, or our own will, the Emperor decides on our escape to
Spain."

Eustachio bowed his head in confirmation of her words.

What if we refuse ? "

Your highness cannot refuse," replied the ambassador ; " my
imperial master now holds himself as your guardian, and has
decided for you. A vessel waits, and there are those at Kimbolton
who have instructions to escort you."

"Unless by her own pleasure," said Lady Willoughby firmly,
'* the princess shall not be removed. Consider," she added, turning
to Mary, whose features had recovered their usual calm expression ;
consider the consequences, both to Lady Salisbury and yourself ;
for her the axe, for you the lost chance of a throne."

I have considered," said Mary, quietly ; " here I have few
friends and many enemies ; in Spain are those who love me.
When," she added, turning to Eustachio, " must we depart ? "

"With the dawn," replied the triumphant minister, who was
fully sensible of the importance of the resolution apparently so
decided ; for Mary in the hands of Charles might prove a source
of terrible uneasiness to Henry. " Your highness has decided
wisely."

Fatally," interrupted Lady Willoughby, " both for herself and
friends."

Press all things for our departure," continued Mary, without

heeding the exclamation of her companion, "who, as well as the
statesman, was deceived by her cool, decided manner. " Time
tarts till we leave Kimbolton behind us."

With the dawn," said Eustachio, as he quitted the chapel, " all
shall be prepared."

And with the dawn, traitor," exclaimed the princess, as soon
as he was out of hearing, " will I be far away. Willoughby," she
added, with a faint smile, " thou, too, deceived ! — misfortune
teaches dissimulation rarely then. Thinks thou I am so heartless
as to risk the blood of those who love me — so weak as to be made a
tool in the hands of my ambitious cousin — so mad as to throw
away the chance of England's crown by consenting to this exile ? "

What means your promise, then ? "

*' To gain time, no more. Charles is bent upon this scheme ; his
minister is well attended, and has the means to execute it. So
where resistance cannot avail, cunning must work the road to
safety. Fetch hither, and quickly," she continued, " my two
conductors — they are sworn to restore me in safety to the countess."

Can you trust them ? "

I can," said the royal maiden, thoughtfully, for even at that
early age misfortune had made her a judge of character. " They
are Englishmen, and will not betray me."

The youthful speaker was not deceived in the opinion she had
formed ; for both Patch and Walter, on hearing of the project of
Eustachio, not only approved her resolution, but declared their
readiness, at the risk of life, to second it. By their advice the
horses were quietly led round to the outskirts of the chase or forest
which surrounded the old manor of Kimbolton ; and while the
ambassador, who was completely thrown off his guard by the
manner of the princess, was arranging for her departure, Mary, on
foot, attended only by Lady Willoughby, made her way to the
place of rendezvous, where her guides and protectors awaited her.
Here she parted with the friend of her mother, who, to avoid
suspicion, returned to the house, and after recommending herself
to the protection of Heaven and the saints, plunged into the
depths of the forest as the surest way of avoiding alike detection
and pursuit.

About an hour after her departure, a party of eight or
ten horsemen, well armed, drew near the house, which they
cautiously reconnoitred at a distance. Their leader, who was no
other than Dudley, after a few moments' consideration, placed his
men within the shelter of the chase — not that there was much
chance of their being observed, for the night was dark and
lowering ; whilst he himself, muffled in his riding-cloak, crept
towards the mansion, directly opposite to the principal entrance of
which was an aged oak, known even as late as the time of Charles II.
by the name of Queen Katherine's tree, so called from that unhappy

princess having been in the habit, during her last illness, of
frequently reclining under its shade,

This will answer my purpose," muttered Dudley, as he climbed
into its venerable branches ; " here I can observe all that passes,
and, like a skilful general, direct operations securely and unseen."

The speaker had not remained more than an hour in his uncomfortable
position, when, from the sudden glancing of lights from
room to room, he guessed that some extraordinary event had taken
place. At first he imagined that Katherine had just expired ; and,
hardened even as his nature had become, his heart smote him when
he reflected on her former kindness and his present purpose. Short
as proverbially are the reckonings of a courtier's conscience, his
were cut still shorter by Eustachio issuing from the house, and
calling on his train to horse.

Good," said the spy to himself ; " the' Lady Mary is about to
depart."

She cannot have fled far," observed the envoy to his secretary,
a Spanish priest, as they passed beneath the tree ; " who would
have thought her capable of such decision and reflection ? "

Think you," demanded his companion, " she hath returned to
the Lady Salisbury ? "

Where else," replied Eustachio, " should she fly ? "
'Twill be a bold stroke," continued the priest, " if it succeeds.
Mary, once in Spain, will prove a hostage for her father's submission
to the Church, Backed by her friends in England who mourn the
destruction of the ancient faith, and by the armies of our sovereign
Charles, Henry must yield."

All which, reverence] father," interrupted his superior, " depends
upon overtaking this way^rr-^d girl."

Here the speakers advanced towards the offices, where their
attendants were already mounted for the pursuit, far out of the
listener's hearing. In a few minutes the sound of their horses'
hoofs along the road announced they had departed.

So," said Dudley, as he descended from his hiding place, " a
pretty knot of treason I have discovered ; — how best to turn it to
my own advantage must be an after-thought: for the present,' to
secure the runaway. She hath not taken to the road," he muttered,
after a few moments' reflection ; " I should have met them else.
No. Where, then ? Ha ! — the wood — the wood ! "

Hastily making his way towards the place where his men were
concealed, he ordered them to dismount, and search for the traces
of any travellers who might have lately entered it.

A useless trouble, my lord," replied a fellow named Black Will,
who had served with his master in the Low Countries, and who
was supposed to possess his confidence ; " I have detected them
already'. There are three riders, and two of them are men, the
third a woman."

How know you that ? " demanded his leader, not wishing to be
deceived on so important a point, although generally speaking he
had the fullest confidence in his sagacity.

By the prints," answered the ruffian ; " feel them yourself, my
lord ; two are deep and well cut in the turf, which prove the steeds
to have been heavily mounted ;' the third is faint, but half-impressed,
save at the rise of yonder bank, where, as I guess, the rider
stumbled."

You are right," said Dudley, who, like an Indian following a
trail through the prairie, had crept on his hands and knees to feel
the imprint of the horses' hoofs upon the grass ; " they have passed
this way. As you value your lives, whatever may be your danger,
harm not a hair of the female rider's head ; for her companions,
deal with them as you may. A hundred nobles," he added, " if
you o'ertake them before dawn, and double the sum if you show
me the traitors lying with their faces upwards on the sward."

A low murmur of assent was heard amongst the men ; and the
speaker, remounting his steed, placed himself once more at their
head, and led on the pursuit.

The fugitives had ridden about two hours over the uneven
ground without interruption or encountering a human being. The
night, which all along had been dark and gloomy, now threatened
a storm ; shortly, the lightning whizzed through the murky air, and
was followed by the lazy thunder-peal, rolling heavily after it.
To increase the discomfort of their journey, the sharp easterly
wind whistled mockingly in the branches of the trees which lined
their road, and blew directly in their fasces, adding its cold, wintry
blast to the miseries of the night. Still the princess, wrapped in
the additional cloak which Walter insisted upon depriving himself
of to give her, pursued with unflinching courage her desolate way.
Once, and once only, did a murmur escape her lips, when her
terrified steed fell back upon its haunches, scared by a flash of
lightning so wild and vivid that it illuminated the deepest recesses
of the chase, showed for a moment the horrors and perils of her
path with frightful distinctness, and then left her plunged in a
darkness made more palpable by the sudden contrast.

This is fearful," exclaimed Patch. " The storm seems to
increase rather than diminish ; one would imagine the forest fiend
let loose. It is impossible her highness much longer should
endure it.

Ride on," said Mary, sternly ; " there are worse dangers than
the tempest — man is more pitiless than Heaven. I can proceed."

Again the party set spurs to their flagging horses, and rode till
they came to a stream, which the heavy rain, now falling in
torrents, had swelled into a cataract.

This unexpected barrier brought the party to a stand-still, for,
ignorant as they were of the depth and current of the water, to

permit their precious charge to attempt the fording it would have
been folly. Patch, with his usual sagacity, at once opposed it.

I can but venture," said the courageous girl, regarding the
dashing waters with an involuntary look of terror ; " there will be
few left in the world to mourn, though many will rejoice, at my
untimely fate. I question," she added, bitterly, " if, through all
my father's realm, there wanders this night an outcast so lonely and
helpless as his wretched child."

Lady," said Walter, " this is indeed a sorry trial for your grace,
but perhaps it is but the probation with which Heaven tests your
virtues ere it rewards them. Trust to my words, that many a
joyous hour in England's regal hall shall well repay you for the
present hour."

Their young charge shook her head mournfully, but did not
trust herself to answer. While they were thus deliberating, the
storm continued to descend, if possible, with redoubled violence ;
and it became necessary, if they wished to preserve life, to find
some shelter not only for themselves, but for their steeds, which,
scared by the lightning, became almost mad and ungovernable
through terror. Placing the princess for a few moments under the
shelter of a tree, whose giant branches stretched half over the road,
the two horsemen galloped in contrary directions along the banks
of the foaming stream, not without considerable danger to
themselves, for the ground was so slippery that several times they
were nearly precipitated, horses and all, into the current.

A peculiar whistle from Patch, resembling the cry of a plover, a
signal which his companion well understood, announced to Walter
that he had been successful in his search.

Courage," said the jester, " but for a few moments," taking,
at the same time, the rein from the cold-benumbed hand of the
princess — " but a few paces ; shelter and fire are at hand."

Overcome with fatigue, and incapable of further exertion, Mary
yielded to his guidance. In a low marshy swamp, close to the
river which barred their progress, stood a wretched hovel. Stunted
elder-bushes and other dank shrubs concealed it on either side,
so that it was only on a close examination than any thing in the
shape of a habitation was to be found. To this solitary hut did the
three drenched travellers direct their way ; Patch, who had made
the discovery, taking the lead. No sooner had they reached the
hut than he knocked lustily against the rough planks which formed
the door, and through the interstices of which the light from
either a fire or lamp was streaming. This it was which first
attracted the jester's notice to the spot. On their repeated summons,
the door was at last opened by a weird-looking woman, whose tall
figure and commanding features gave to her person a dignity
which her squalid though clean attire could not conceal.
Courageous as the Princess Mary naturally was, she could not avoid

betraying something like fear on her appearance. In her left hand
she held a lamp, made of coarse baked clay, whilst her right one
grasped a long narrow sword, whose bright blade glittered in the
flickering beams of the uncertain light. The knit brows and stern
expression about the mouth showed that in case of danger she had
the resolution to use it.

Dost take us for robbers, good mother," exclaimed Patch, eying
her curiously, for he was fond of studying character either in
courts or hovels, " that you welcome us glaive in hand ? "

We seek but shelter till the storm is past," added Walter ;
and this, dame, is not a night to turn a dog from your door,
should it howl for pity, much more one of your own sex."

The female glanced her eye rapidly over the party, and apparently
satisfied with the scrutiny, gave way for them to enter, observing
as she did so, that the presence of their companion answered
better for their purpose than their smooth speech or Flemish broadcloth.


The hut, though desolate and cheerless on the outside, proved
comparatively warm and comfortable within. A cheerful fire was
blazing in a rude chimney, formed by the supporting rock at the
back, and a couple of rough wooden benches enabled the drenched
fugitives to seat and dry themselves.

The jester glanced quietly round the walls. A large raven,
whose whitened bill denoted its vast age, was basking in the
warmth before the fire ; with a low, sullen croak, he hopped to a
distant corner of the hut as they approached, as if angry at being
disturbed.

"You have chosen a singular companion," observed Walter,
pointing to the bird ; for at the time we speak of all its species
were regarded with superstitious dislike, especially by the ignorant.

It is almost the only one," said the woman, '" which the
persecution of the world hath left me. He at least will neither
flatter nor betray me — not so with man," observed their hostess.

You are bitter against the world, good mother."

I am as it hath made me," continued the woman. " But heed
not my speech ; take the shelter accident affords, dry your garments,
and, soon as it lists you, pass on your way."

You at least," said the Princess Mary, proffering at the same
time a purse of gold nobles, " shall have no cause to regret our
visit. Take it," she added, seeing that the female hesitated ; " it
will at least add something to your comforts, which are, alas ! but
scanty."

Gold ! " exclaimed the woman, " what should I do with gold,
and sleep in peace ? I knew I should be tempted," she muttered,
for I dreamt last night of the bright yellow devil. Put it back,
girl, put it back : with such a treasure beneath my roof I could
not rest at nights. The fear my son might murder me would

Cranfield HALL.

haunt me in my sleep ; there's evil in the sight of it — put it
back."

*' You have a son, then ? " demanded Patch, at the same time
exchanging a glance with his companion, which the keen-eyed
hag saw and interpreted rightly.

A son," she repeated ; " why else do I live ? Could any but a
mother endure the load of an existence wretched and lone as
mine ? Yes, I have a son, wild as the forest fiend — almost as
lawless, too ; for he hunts the deer despite man's edict and his
cruelty, as if God," she added, with a scornful laugh, " had made
the creatures of the earth for lords and princes only."

At this moment the door, which had been left unbarred, was
pushed hastily open, and the person spoken of entered with a
fawn, which he had just slain, upon his shoulders. His parent
had not unfitly described him as a forest fiend. He was apparently
about twenty ; his strong, shapely limbs were cast in a youthful
giant's mould ; his features, like his mother's, were strongly
marked — their haggard, wild appearance considerably heightened
by the long dark hair which fell down his neck and shoulders. No
sooner had he thrown the slaughtered game upon the timor than
the old raven hopped from its corner towards it, and began
smearing its bill in the still flowing blood, in its endeavour to tear
and enlarge the wound,

Croak ! " went the bird, delighted with its unusual banquet.

Silence, Harro," screamed the hag ; " thy note seldom bodes
good."

Strangers here ? " said the young man, regarding the party
attentively ; " but I guessed as much when I saw your steeds tied
to the chestnut-tree beside the cottage. You have lost your companions
in the forest ? "

"No."

I have no wish to be curious," said the fellow, doggedly, for he
fancied the speaker was deceiving him, " but I saw them about a
mile hence. More, I listened to their conversation while I lay
crouched on the damp grass as they rode by me, and heard their
leader, whom one called Dudley, refusing to draw rein till he
overtook you."

Dudley ! " exclaimed Princess Mary, starting from her seat.

Dudley ! " shrieked the hag ; " the oppressor, the assassin !
Hath the scaffold given up the dead ? Did men deceive me when
I heard that justice had been done, and that the axe had fallen on
his accursed neck ? "

He speaks of the son of the man you name."

Father or son, vengeance is still the same," continued the
woman. " Degenerate dog ! " she added, turning to her son,
"hadst thou not an arroAV in thy belt to avenge thy widowed
loftier's tears — thy father's blood ? "

^JS



'Tis not too late," muttered the young giant, seizing the brand,
which his mother had laid aside as soon as she was satisfied of the
character of her guests.

In an instant "Walter and Patch drew their swords, and placed
themselves before the princess, whom it was evident the young
ruffian took to be connected with the enemy.

Avoid this broil," said Mary, speaking in Norman-french, so
as not to be understood, " if it be possible. Dudley is an enemy
more fearful than e'en my father's frown, or Eustachio's ill-timed
zeal. We must cross the stream before them."

Trust to our prudence," replied Patch, in the same language ;
but our first duty is to secure your highness's safety. Fear not ;
the sainted queen, jon mother, watches over you."

The fury of the mistress of the hut suddenly was calmed ; and,
on a sign, her son threw down his weapon. All were surprised at
the change, and thought at first that she had understood them.

You would fly ? " demanded the woman.

We would," said Mary, " but, alas ! our horses are exhausted."

I will give them a drug," said their hostess, " which for twelve
hours shall restore their strength — nay, give them tenfold vigour."

"And the torrent?"

May be passed by one who knows the track, even though it
raged with ten times greater fury. Trust to my guidance, and you
shall cross in safety."

The speaker was at least in earnest in her boast, for taking down
three of the wooden bowls, with the assistance of her son, she half-filled
them with water, into which she poured the contents of a
stone jar. As soon as it was opened a strong and not unpleasant
perfume filled the place.

As soon as the young forester had left the hut to administer the
drug to the horses, the manner of the female entirely changed.
Approaching the princess, she bent the knee and would have
kissed her hand.

What mean you ? " said Mary.

Fear not," whispered the woman ; " they should tear me limb
from limb ere I betrayed you. Prop of the ancient faith, daughter
of kings, go forth in safety. Think not that I am mad ; my words
are strange, but my deeds may yet prove stranger. Years since it
was foretold," she added, " that this withered hand should place
the daughter of Katherine of Arragon upon the throne : it will one
day be accomplished."

Thou art mad."

Hark ! " she continued, as the lively neighing of the steeds
announced that the drug had taken effect ; " the first boast is at
least accomplished. Fear not the rest ; you will have small need
for whip or spur ; they must bestride the wind who follow you.
Once past the torrent, you may defy pursuit."

VOL. II. T 2

To the astonishment of the fugitives, they found their horses,
lately half-dead with fatigue, pawing the ground impatiently, full
of life and animation, as if anxious to proceed.

Heaven is on our side," said Mary, as, preceded by their conductress,
they set forward.

And the weird woman of the chase," added their mysterious
guide.

The young hunter, left alone in the hut, began to prepare the
fawn for supper, to do which he was obliged several times to chase
the obstinate raven from the carcase, where for some time it had
been gorging unobserved at its ease.

Croak ! croak ! " cried the bird, as its master impatiently kicked
it away for the third time. The sullen creature, oJBEended at the
chastisement, retreated to a corner, which the various morsels of
offal the operator threw to it could not tempt it to quit.

It's a bad sign, Harro," he observed, " when we cease to befriends."


Just as he had finished his task, Dudley and his companions,
who had been baffled in their search, entered the cottage.

What art thou doing, knave ? " demanded the leader of the
party, who was a stout upholder of the forest laws.

Canst thou not see ? " replied the young man, doggedly ;
skinning a deer."

Insolent ! knowest thou not many a better man has been
hanged for this ? "

I know it. My father hung for it."

Yet thou art not forewarned," said Dudley,

No more than thou art ; for thine lost his head soon after."

This was an allusion which the fierce soldier was never known
to forgive ; his cheek became ashy pale, and his eyes flashed with
the fury of an excited rattlesnake. Without a word, he drew his
sword, and before his victim could stand upon his guard, passed
it twice through his heart.

Croak ! " shrieked the raven, as it hopped from its hiding-place
and perched upon the body of the dying man ; " croak ! croak ! "

In a few moments its beak was again stained with blood.

This passes patience," said Dudley ; " but the fool is rightly
served."

At this moment the mother, who had just returned from guiding
the fugitives, who had safely crossed the torrent, entered the hut ;
at a glance she comprehended the full extent of her miscreant
all that had passed.

Monster ! " she cried, " a widowed mother's curse rest on thy
head. As was the father, so is the sou — cruel, remorseless, bloody,
pitiless ; and so the fate of both — the scaffold ! the scaffold ! the
scaffold ! " The excited woman approached close to the assassin,
and shrieked the last words in his ear.

« What means the hag ? "

That I shall see thy head higher than e'en thy pride would
place it. Dudley," she continued, " when thy step is nearest to the
throne, — when ambition holds the prize almost within thy reach,
then will thy doom be near, then shall we meet again. As I
foretold thy father's fate, so do I tell thee thine ! "

Dudley, as if stung by a serpent — for there was a memory in
her words which caused even his heart to quail — cast a furious
look upon the speaker, and darted from the hut.

Croak ! croak ! " cried the raven, hopping after him.

For a long time the wretched mother remained insensible upon
the body of her murdered son.

CHAPTER XVIII.

In a lofty chamber in Montague Manor was seated a venerable
lady, whose unbroken form and stately person showed that time
had dealt most gently with her.

This remarkable personage was no other than the celebrated
Countess of Salisbury, the grand-daughter of Richard Neville, Earl
of Warwick and Salisbury, and the daughter of George Duke of
Clarence, brother of Edward IV., who was drowned in a butt of
malmsey in the Tower. She was Countess of Salisbury and
Baroness Montague in her own right. Descended from the line
of Plantagenet, she possessed the high and courageous spirit of her
race. Induced, perhaps, by the calamities of her earlier days, she
had condescended to bestow her hand upon Sir Richard Pole,
whose blood, although it had flowed through many honourable
veins, was scarcely worthy to mingle with the pure stream by
which the existence of the noble Margaret was cherished.

Henry VIII. for many years showed her great distinction, and
committed the Princess Mary to her keeping after his divorce from
her mother.

The anxiety which now was noticeable in her countenance arose
from the absence of her ward, whom she had permitted, contrary
to the strict injunctions of the king, to visit her dying parent at
Kimbolton, and whose escape from the political machinations of
Eustachio, the Spanish ambassador, and the pursuit of Dudley, we
described in our last chapter. The absence of the princess had
been carefully concealed from the household, under the pretence
of an indisposition which compelled her to keep her chamber,
where the countess and her physician alone were supposed to
enter. The form of serving her grace had been regularly kept upas
a blind, during her absence, the venerable lady herself carrying
the dishes into the apartment of the presumed invalid.

Five days," she murmured, rising and pacing the rush-strewn
floor uneasily ; " five whole days, and not a sign of their return !
It will be impossible much longer to conceal her absence from the
household, many of whom are little better than spies upon us. Our
Lady aid her ! " she added ; " it is for the desolate child I feel more
than for myself. My days cannot be many ; and whether in a
dungeon, on a scaffold, or her ancestral halls, Margaret Plantagenet
will know how to die ! "

Little did the venerable matron dream how near she was to being
called on to fulfil her boast.

Dr. Mansell, her physician, entered from the inner chamber, where
it was supposed he had passed the night watching by the couch of
her sick ward, as she finished her soliloquy.

See you any signs of their approach ? " she demanded.

None, madam, none ; but that is not the worst — a party of
horsemen are directing their way towards the house,"

Horsemen ! " repeated the countess, her pale features slightly
flushed. " Horsemen ! then I guess the rest. The absence of the
princess has been discovered. I am betrayed ; and these are the
messengers of Henry's vengeance."

Hope for the best," said the physician ; " he may be merciful."

Merciful ! " she repeated, with a look of scorn ; " oh ! well I
know the Tudors' mercy — it is written in the blood of my murdered
brother, my persecuted kindred. The Welsh wolf fears the English
hart too much to spare its aged dam."

"They are but few," observed the old man ; " should their errand
in truth prove hostile, we are strong enough to resist them, and at
least gain time for flight."

Flight ! " repeated the lady, mournfully ; "and whither should

I fly?"

f." To your son Reginald, in Italy."

Hopeless ! — hopeless ! You may transplant the tender sapling,
but not the gnarled tree. I will cause no man destruction in my
cause ; the fate we can't avoid true courage shows itself in
yielding to."

At this instant an usher entered the apartment to announce that
Viscount Lisle, who was on his way from court, and was charged
with a message to the Lady Mary from her father, demanded
admission at the gates.

Admit him," said the countess, firmly ; " we will descend to
meet him. Offer such hospitality as our State affords ; let not the
pliant courtier say that Margaret Plantagenet sent him hungry
from her gates."

What, nobly lady, do you intend to do ? "

Confess all," was the calm reply. " Think you," she added,
proudly, " I would descend to falsehood ? "

"lam not so scrupulous," interrupted the physician ;" let me

descend to meet this Dudley — keep him in play until the latest
moment. In the game of life we should never throw one chance
away."

At my time it is scarcely worth a struggle to preserve it,"
observe the countess ; " but be it as you advise. I will retire to
the Lady Mary's room, and wait as you advise."

On descending to the great hall. Dr. Mansell found Dudley and
his companions, who, although not invested with any official
character, had already" begun examining the domestics.

And so," he said, " the Lady Mary has been sick for five days ? "

Even so, my lord," replied the physician, who came just intime
to catch the question.

And who has seen her ? " he demanded rudely.

I and the countess," was the reply.

A smile of incredulity lit the features of the artful Dudley, who
was puzzled how to proceed ; for, as we before observed, he was
invested with no official character, and he knew that the stern old
countess was not a person whom he could either bully or terrify ;
still it was absolutely necessary that he should obtain proofs of
the absence of the princess.

This is folly, doctor," he exclaimed ; " I well know the Lady
Mary is not at Montague Manor."

The household exchanged looks amongst themselves, for such
for three days past had been the general opinion.

More," resumed the speaker ; " that she hath been to Kim-bolton."


Indeed ! " said Mansell, who was a shrewd man, and began to
suspect the true state of the case ; " your lordship is pleased to jest
at the expense of our credulity. If you will favour me with your
credentials to the princess I will request an immediate audience
of her grace, that you may be satisfied."

I tell you she is absent," repeated Dudley, who was almost
as much embarrassed as the doctor how to extricate himself from
his false position.

And I repeat, show your letters — give some token that this
intrusion is authorised by the king, or I advise the countess to give
orders to have you tossed into the moat," replied the physician.

It is impossible to decide how the dispute might have terminated,
for it continued to wax warm on either side. The domestics, who
were both numerous and attached to their venerable mistress,
naturally took courage, and sided with the speaker when they
found that Dudley came unarmed by the authority of the king.
Swords were already drawn on both sides, when the stern voice
of Margaret Plantagenet was heard to exclaim from the inner
room :

Peace, knaves ! Place for her grace the Princess Mary ! "

The next moment the countess entered, preceded by her ward,

whose pale face and haggard eyes gave proof that she was ill, and
that the doctor's story was not all a fiction.

It would have been difficult to decide as she entered the apartment
which was the most surprised, Mansell or Dudley ; the latter,
who was an accomplished courtier, bowed to hide his chagrin,

I understand, my lord," said the princess, " you are the bearer
of letters from my father ? "

Not — not exactly letters," stammered the discomfited intriguer.

Have we misunderstood the Lady Salisbury ? " demanded
Mary, turning to her companion.

Such, I understood, was the pretence which gained him
admission here," replied the countess, haughtily.

"His lordship said so at the gate," observed the warder.

"And since then," added the secretary, "he hath been questioning
all the household, asserting that your grace was absent — fled to
Kimbolton — not ill ; and that for two nights past he had chased
you through the country."

"And is it so, my lord ? " said Mary, sternly ; " was it to gratify
an idle curiosity, or still more idle spleen, we have been dragged
from our sick couch under the thought of doing honour to our
father's messenger ? We congratulate you, my lord, upon your
honourable conduct, and trust an hour will come to prove our
gratitude."

Bold as Dudley constitutionally was, he quailed beneath the
speaker's cold grey eye. Could he have seen into futurity, her
glance would have given him an uncomfortable sensation about
the neck.

"Gods! what!" cried the aged countess, "have I lived to be
braved in my own halls by the son of the extortioner Dudley,
whom the rope would have requited better than the axe ? Arm,
knaves ! " she continued, turning to the domestics, whom the sight
of the princess had given fresh courage to — " arm, and drive the
intruders from my house."

Madam," said the baffled man, pale with passion at the fierce
taunt respecting his father, " the residence of the Lady Mary must
not be made the scene of strife. I can respect my master's
daughter, though by descending to artifice she has lost the respect
due to herself. For you, proud woman, I shall find another vv^ay
to thank you."

Without waiting for a reply, the speaker left the house. He was
a man of his word, and kept his threat as far as the Countess of
Salisbury was concerned, against Avhom Henry was already
sufficiently predisposed on account of the intrigues of her son,
Reginald de la Pole, at the Papal court, against him.

A few days after Dudley's return to London orders were issued
for the arrest of the aged countess, and her committal to the Tower.

On her trial the illustrious lady defended herself with great

spirit and presence of mind, indignantly denying the charge of
treason, which, in the legal phrase of the day, was merely constructive,
and supported by no better proof than the assertion that
she had entertained certain Italian domestics in her service who
might possibly be spies of Rome. The subservient peers, with
Henry's tool, the Duke of Norfolk, at their head — who would
doubtless have devoted his own mother to the block rather than
offend the royal brute he called his master — found the aged
daughter of the Plantagenet guilty, and sentence of death was
accordingly pronounced. Vainly Mary interceded for her mother's
friend. Henry was inexorable ; and the queen, to whom the
princess in her grief wrote to urge her influence with the king,
never condescended to reply.

On the scaffold the high courage for which her illustrious race
had been celebrated did not, belie itself in Margaret Plantagenet.
"When told to lay her head upon the block, she stoutly refused,
saying that she had committed no treason, and that if the tyrant
Tudor wanted her head, he might get it as he could. It was a
fearful sight to see an aged woman running round the scaffold, her
white hair streaming in the wind, followed by the executioner,
striking at her with the axe. It was not till after repeated blows
that she fell, and the bloody tragedy was accomplished.

This scene occurred in England while such men as Cranmer and
Cromwell lived, and not one voice was heard in execration of the
deed. No wonder kings are tyrants when men are curs !

Anne Boleyn was shortly after punished for her heartlessness by
the premature birth of a son. Had the child lived, her fate might
have been different. Her last hold on Henry was all but broken.

The intelligence of Katherine's death inspired Anne Boleyn
with triumphant joy, and she indicated her satisfaction by wearing
yellow for mourning — an instance of bad taste which her admirers
have vainly attempted to palliate by urging that yellow was the
colour usually worn in France as mourning for queens ; but this
interpretation is too far-fetched, especially as she exultingly
exclaimed, when the Duke of Suffolk brought the news to her,
That now indeed she was a queen ! " Her satisfaction, however,
was of short duration ; for the season of her adversity was shortly
to arise^her husband's love was already on the wane.

"Could I but persuade Norris," she thought, " to resign that fatal
letter, I might defy the malice of my stars."

She did persuade him, but the result was fatal to both.

A few nights after the events we have described there was a
masque at court, during which Henry's attention to Jane Seymour
became a subject of general remark.

The young lady whom Anne had so imprudently retained about
her person as maid of honour was of great beauty, and of a mind
and disposition suitable in gentleness and delicacy to her external

loveliness. She was one of the four daughters of Sir John
Seymour, of Wolf Hall, in Wiltshire ; her father was descended
from the Lords of Beauchamp, and had married into the honourable
family of the Wentworth, from whom descended the present
Fitzwilliam family. He had maintained a reputation for valour
in the wars both in the present and late reigns, and at the time we
speak of held the office of governor of Bristol Castle.

Intoxicated with her beauty and position, Anne Boleyn thought
merely of her pleasure ; like a giddy child, she basked in the
sunshine of fortune, and dreamed not it had also shadows. With
an imprudence which not even innocence could excuse, she danced,
not onlj^ with her old lover Wyat, but with Sir Henry Norris,
whose favour with his royal mistress was already too freely talked
about, and had excited the jealousy of his mistress. Lady Rochfort.
Anne forgot in her thoughtlessness that there is no enemy so
dangerous as a jealous woman. After having made her appearance
with the king in state, she seized the moment of his absence to
withdraw, but soon returned, masked, and in a domino like any
other lady of the court ; a disguise which, although not sufficient
to conceal her, permitted those around her to address her with a
familiarity which would have shocked the ears of her virtuous
predecessor.

Henry, who witnessed her conduct with displeasure, withdrew
into a closet communicating by folding doors with the saloon.
Jane Seymour was already seated there, half-pensively, half-coquettish
perhaps, and, strange to say, alone ; for since it was
observed that the king viewed her with admiration, the younger
courtiers were afraid to flirt with her : the jackals knew their
place.

Alone, May-bird ! " exclaimed Henry, gallantly taking her
hand ; " I thought I had been the only one deserted here."

Jane noted not only the words, but the tone in which they were
uttered.

The sun, sire, shineth where it listeth," replied Jane ; " and we
should not complain of solitude, since its rays give light and
animation to the world : it is a desert only where it shines not."

Say'st thou, sweetheart ? " said the enamoured monarch, gazing
upon her with the same looks of admiration with which, but a few
months before, he had gazed upon his queen. " Why, then, art
thou insensible ? "

The maid of honour raised her eyes and gazed upon him with a
look of reproachful tenderness which she was far from feeling fora
man of Henry's years, person, and character ; but he was a king,
whom recent example had proved would divorce one wife to
elevate another ; and women, even the most virtuous, after a
certain age, are generally coquettes or else ambitious. Jane
Seymour most probably was the latter only, and employed the arts

of the former but as a battery to advance her dB3i<jn. In love
affairs women are born generals.

You are silent," whispered her admirer.

What can I say, your highness ? " timidly replied his companion.
" Honour is dearer to me even than life or love. Woman's
heart is weak, but Haven hath wisely placed Virtue as its guardian.
Why force the blush into my conscious cheek — why seek for au
avowal whose very shame consumes me ? "

All ties," said the king, meaningly, " are not indissoluble."

But marriage is, sire."

Unless upon just grounds," added Henry, moodily, his virtuous
resentment at Anne's levities increased by Jane's opposition to his
wishes.

At this moment a courtier, dressed in a long gown of crimson
taffeta, ornamented with Venetian passementerie, who, like the
speakers, was masked, approached the spot where they were sitting,
and pretending not to know them, exclaimed :

Lovers ! lovers, on my life ! "

Do you read the stars, friend ? " demanded Henry, disguising
his voice, willing to humour the supposed mistake.

"The heavens, like the earth, to me," replied the intruder,
oracularly, "are as an open page ; to me the present is as was the
past, the future as the present. I can read the very thoughts of
those who trust in me."

Indeed," said Jane, either believing in his assertion, or feigning
to do so. " What, then, are my fortunes ? "

Show me your hand. I see, I see," he murmured, after
surveying it carefully ; " a lofty fortune, a noble state — a life of
honour, lady, and of love."

Wedded ? " she inquired, emily.

Wedded," repeated the stranger — for such he appeared both to
the monarch and his companion.

"And mine?" said the king, at the same time extending his
palm.

The lion's path — the lordly eagle's flight — a career for men to
wonder at and fear. There are ears," he added, bowing respectfully,
to which I dare not utter more."

But my thought — my thought, man ? "

He were a bold man who would presume to speak it," replied
the pretended soothsayer.

But thou shalt speak it," replied the monarch ; " or I will find
a way to wring it from thee. If, as you say, mine is the lion's path,
remember it is dangerous to cross it. If my career is indeed the
eagle's flight, beware its swoop."

Should it offend you ? " faltered the stranger,

I can laugh at it," answered the king carelessly.

Should it prove true ? "

I can pardon it."

And let me pass unquestioned ? " demanded the intruder.

Even so."

Upon your knightly honour."

Upon my knightly honour," repeated the king.

He was daring, whoever the intruder might he ; for he leant
toward the speaker, and whispered in his ear : " A wife's fidelity —
a woman's love ; " and ere Henry could recover from his surprise,
walked hastily away, and was seen no more. The monarch, who
was naturally suspicious, eyed his companion doubtfully ; at first
he deemed it a plot of hers to shake his faith in Anne's fidelity •; a
moment's reflection, however, showed him that he was mistaken.
Hastily rising from his seat, he cast his glance around the chamber,
by this time filled with courtiers and noble dames. The queen
was nowhere to be seen. The brow of Henry grew fearfully dark,
as he hastened from the crowded presence-chamber towards the
private apartments of the palace. Sir John Perrot was about to
follow him, when the stern voice of his master warned him back.
I need no attendance," he whispered. " Remain here, and tell
Suffolk to let a guard be ready at my call. Where is the
queen ? "

She retired a few moments since to her private chamber, your
grace."

We shall see," muttered Henry, as he walked away — " we shall
see. . If I prove her the thing I dread to name, this night she sleeps
within the Tower."

On reaching the terrace the impatient speaker saw or fancied that
the same mysterious personage who had excited his suspicions
flitted in the darkness before him. As a precaution he drew his
sword ; for, like most tyrants, he had an instinctive conviction that
he was not beloved, and prepared himself accordingly.

Despite his jealousy and indignation, he had sufficient control
over his passion not to let it defeat his purpose by its ebullitions ;
he therefore slackened his pace as he reached the windows of the
private apartment of the queen. A light was streaming from one
of them, casting the reflection of the coloured glass upon the stone
balustrade. Carefully approaching, he beheld Norris in earnest
conversation with Anne Boleyn.

Traitress ! " he muttered to himself ; " was it for this I risked
a crown ? "

Even so," whispered someone near him.

He turned and beheld his masked acquaintance in the gown of
taffeta with Venetian passementerie. Seizing him by the arm, he
muttered :

Silence, on your life ! "

I have no wish to speak — my tale is told — my task all but
ended."

The evening had been sultry, and the endow, which opened
into a species of balcony projecting from the apartment, was but
partially closed. Henry carefully drew the casement towards him,
in order that he might hear all that passed : the inmates of the
chamber were too much occupied with their conversation to note
him.

This is ungenerous, Norris," were the first words Anne was
heard to utter. " Why seek a love fatal alike to both of us ? Hast
thou forgot my honour is fenced round by death and sin, or that a
yawning grave lies between thee and thy presumptuous hopes .? "

Were it the eternal gulf that bigots preach of, or where
churchmen say the unblest spirits writhe in immortal agony,"
replied the amorous knight, " and such a bliss in view, still would
I tempt it. Anne," he continued, passionately, " thou art the daystar
of my life — the aim of my existence ! The thought that thou
art another's is distraction to me ! Like the bold Greek who'
braved Olympian Jove, I, too, bear the vulture preying on my
heart ; but what were his fabled pangs compared to mine — the
pangs of unrequited love "i "

Henry's companion observed that the monarch's teeth absolutely
gnashed with rage, and he smiled beneath his mask.

Love," repeated Anne ; " do not pollute the word ; for true love
sues for that it seeks ; it is love's semblance only that extorts it.
That letter, Norris," she added— "that fatal letter ! "

Is safe within my cabinet."

Yield it to my tears — my prayers ! Should it be found, I
tremble as I think on Henry's wrath."

I cannot part with it," interrupted the knight ; " it is my
talisman — the key which opens to a bower of bliss — the ladder by
whose aid I one day trust to mount to joy. The brightest jewel in
King Henry's crown would not tempt me to resign it."

Not e'en my love ? " demanded Anne, coquettishly ; for she
felt that she was playing for a fearful stake, and trusted to delude
him by hopes she never meant to realise.

Thy love," iterated Norris ; " what would it not purchase ? — my
soul, my life, an eternity of chains. Give me that hope," he
added, sinking on his knees and catching her scarcely resisting
hand, " and I will be thy slave — wait on thy smile with all a
lover's fondness — repay the boon with all a lover's truth."

The indignant monarch had seen enough ; his furious nature
could endure no more. Motioning to his companion to remain, he
hastily left the terrace and returned to the great hall, where
Suffolk, in obedience to his orders, had already assembled a party
of the guard.

"Go to the chamber of the queen," he hoarsely whispered;
arrest the adulteress."

Sire I " exclaimed the duke, speechless with surprise.

Dost understand me ? " demanded his master, ferociously ; " or
art thou, too, leagued against me ? Arrest Anne Boleyn, the
wanton whom my folly raised to a crown, 'and for whom justice
reserves the axe. Secure the person of Sir Henry Norris, and bring
them both unto the council-chamber. Not a moment's delay, or
thy head, Suffolk — ay, even thine "

The obsequious brother-in-law knew too well the furious disposition
he had to deal with. Without another word he quitted
the hall.

Perrot ! " roared the king.

In an instant the courtier stood beside him.

Go to the lodging of Sir John Norris, and bring to the council-chamber
his cabinet. Let no one touch it, man, on thy life — on thy
life. Stay," he added as the terrified favourite was about to depart,
send to the terrace ; there is a mummer there — a masking devil,
who — no matter, man or devil, he hath spoken truth ; see that he
escapes not. Away ! "

The messenger needed no second command, but disappeared upon
the instant. The excited speaker continued, like a chafed lion, to
pace up and down the hall, amid the profound silence of the guards
and the astonishment of the courtiers, who neither ventured to raise
their eyes nor whisper in his presence — so much was the relentless
tyrant feared by all who knew him.

Dupe ! " he kept muttering to himself — " dupe ! dupe ! I shall
be the laughing-stock of Europe ! How Rome will triumph in my
shame ! Let them," he added ; " it shall be washed out with blood
the axe for the sceptre ; the scaffold for a throne. Ha ! ha ! ha !
It will be brave sport to Spain and Katherine's friends."

Norris was still at the feet of Anne when the guard sent by
Henry to arrest his companion on the terrace approached. The
heavy tread of the soldiers startled the imprudent, but not guilty,
Anne ; and turning to the window, she beheld, to her astonishment,
that it was wide open, and a figure wrapped in a cloak sternly
regarding her.

Fly ! " she whispered, " we are betrayed ! "

Norris sprang through the window just in time to be arrested
with the stranger who had caused his alarm, and who he doubted
not had betrayed him. As the torches flashed upon his features
he recognised his former victim, and the reader's old acquaintance
—Patch.

The jester ! " he exclaimed.

I told you we should meet once more," said Patch, " and I have
kept my word."

Mercy for her ! " cried the knight, in a tone of agony, " whom
my imprudence has destroyed."

There was a generosity in the request which almost touched the
pity of the jester, for it in part redeemed the speaker's error ; but

he caught sight of the ring which he had taken from the dead hand
of Wolsey ; and his heart was once more hard as iron.

Anne Boleyn was not kept long in suspense as to the full extent
of her misery, for in a few moments the Duke of Suffolk, attended
by a party of the yeomen of the guard, entered the chamber where
her interview with Norris had taken place, and found her overwhelmed
with despair and terror, half-fainting in her seat.

What means this intrusion, my lord ? " she demanded, trying
to assume a firmness she did not possess. " Armed men in the
closet of the queen ? "Doubtless some jest ! Ha, ha, ha, a jest ! Say
it is a jest, and I forgive you."

Would that it were no other ! " replied the duke ; " but my
orders respecting you are most imperative."

Respecting me ? " repeated the queen.

You are a prisoner."

Prisoner ! " shrieked Anne, completely overwhelmed by the
realisation of her worst fears ; " then I am lost, for who can name
the prisoner that ever Henry spared ? Suffolk, brother," she
added, clinging to his arm, " go to my husband ; tell him I can
explain all — all. Mark ! all," she added, laughing hysterically, " if
he will let me speak with him one moment."

Your highness can do that before the council," observed the
duke, *' who will be delighted to prove their duty to the king by
justice to his wife."

"Justice ! " repeated Anne, with an impatient gesture ; "justice
from them ! You mock me, duke. None know so well as sou
they are but puppets to my husband's will — things that move,
breathe, speak, swear, and lie as he directs. Justice from them ! "
she added, bursting into a flood of tears ; "the vulture's justice on
the fluttering dove. Suffolk, I have been imprudent, but not
guilty — not guilty to my lord."

It is my duty, madam, to hope that you may prove it."

I assure you I have not," she iterated, wringing her hands in
agony ; " if you have any pity left, conduct me to my husband."

Guards, form her highness's escort," said the duke, turning
coldly away.

Where do you lead me ? " she debauched ; " to Henry ? "

To the council, madam."

Then I am lost."

Preceded by the Duke of Suffolk, who walked bare-headed
before her, and surrounded by the yeomen of the guard, Anne
Boleyn was conducted from her apartment to the council chamber.

On reaching the ante-room. Sir John Perrot informed his grace
that he must remain there with his prisoner till summoned to
appear, and whispered that Sir Henry Norris was already under
examination.

The council chamber in the old palace at Greenwich, where the

discovery and arrest had taken place, that night presented a curious
picture of passion, crime, weakness, and subserviency. Henry,
who either really was, or pretended to be, convinced of Anne's
inconstancy, kept pacing up and down the room much in the same
way as he had done in the great hall. Besides Cromwell, the king's
vicegerent for ecclesiastical affairs — the same wh,^ had been
Wolsey's secretary — there were present Cranmer, who wore a
troubled look ; Norfolk, cold and supple, ready to pronounce a
sentence, even upon his own blood, if it would please his capricious
master ; the Earl of Oxford, and one or two councillors of less note.

In the centre of the room was a cabinet of Florence marqueterie ;
the same Which Leo X, had sent to Wolsey at the commencement
of his prosperous career, and which may still be seen in Windsor
Castle. Drawer after drawer had been ransacked, every recess
thrown open, but still no paper or letter compromising the queen
could be found. Norris, who, together with Patch, was strictly
guarded at the lower end of the council table, began to breathe
freely ; but he counted without his host.

"The rack," said Henry, " may force it from him ; make out his
committal to the Tower ; Kingston will find the means to make
him speak."

Sir William Kingston was governor at the time.

Perhaps," said Cranmer, timidly — for, although a friend of
Anne Boleyn, like most priests he was a cautious man — " this
villain hath belied her majesty — there may be no letter."

Perhaps you are a fool," said the king. " Am I a dolt — san
idiot ? Have I nor eyes nor ears ? Did I not see the traitor on
his knee to the adulteress — hear her implore him to give her back
the letter ? I, by my crown and honour, believe it treason, priest,
to doubt the existence of that letter."

After such a declaration, Cranmer was perfectly convinced.
Henry had a most persuasive way of bringing his councillors to
think with him.

"Your highness is deceived," exclaimed Norris, who, to do him
justice, was more anxious for the safety of the queen than for
himself ; " there is no letter. It was an idle boast — an empty
threat. I alone am culpable. Her majesty is innocent."

Liar ! " muttered the king.

Patch only smiled.

"I think, sire," observed the Duke of Norfolk, "that the jester
here could throw some light upon the matter."

Why, ay," said the king, " he hath rendered us a good, though
painful service ; and now I recollect, the cabinet was Wolsey's.
Hast seen it, knave, before ? "

The jester nodded.

Have all the drawers been opened ? "

All, save one," replied Patch.

Norris fixed an imploring glance upon him ; but it was useless—
his own torture and imprisonment he might have forgiven ; but
his master's wrongs, and Anne's Boleyn's persecution of him after
he had fallen from his once dazzling greatness, were graved too
deeply on his memory for pity to efface. Approaching the cabinet,
he pressed his finger on a spring concealed beneath a shield blazoned
with the arms of the cardinal, when a species of flap fell from what
appeared the solid front of the lid, and disclosed the letter of Anne
Boleyn to her former lover, Wyat. Fortunately for the poet, and
unfortunately for the writer, it was without address or date, and
Henry naturally believed that it had been written since his
marriage, and addressed by the queen to Norris ; nor could all the
knight's protestations to the contrary dissuade him. He had
advanced too far to recede — his mind was already made up to
sacrifice his wife at the shrine of his new passion. Henry perused
the letter for some time in silence ; scarcely a councillor present
ventured to draw his breath ; for he knew not which way the storm
of passion might be swayed, or on whom his wrath would fall.
All, however, augured unfavourably for the queen, for his face
became livid with passion as he perused the lines so mortifying to
his vanity — we would add love, did we believe that such a being
ever felt it. Turning towards Cranmer, who trembled as he
approached, he thrust the letter into his hand, exclaiming :

Read, read the wanton's condemnation, and then defend her if
you can."

In proportion to his former zeal on her behalf, the primate now
expressed himself shocked at the levity of her highness in writing
Such a letter.

Levity ! " repeated Henry, in a dissatisfied tone ; " levity ! call
it treason, lord, when next you speak."

It is treason," faltered the archbishop.

Turning to the captain of the guard, the king commanded that
Sir Henry Norris should that very night be carried under strong
escort to the Tower, and discharged the jester from custody,
reserving, as he said, to hear his story, and question him upon the
cause of his long absence in private.

And now, my lords," he continued, as soon as the knight was
removed, " for our most painful duty as a king, a husband, and a
father. The queen must to the Tower after him. I dare not trust
the weakness of my nature were I to see her again," said the
tyrant, whose hypocrisy deceived no one but himself ; " you must
inform her of my determination."

The Duke of Norfolk bowed, and Cranmer ventured to demand
upon what authority they should commit her highness, as such a
proceeding was without precedent.

Upon our royal warrant," exclaimed Henry, seizing a pen and
writing his name at the head of a roll of parchment, plenty of

VOL. II. U 2

which, prepared for such purposes, was lying on the council
table.

"And touching her treatment ?"

Let it be queenly to the last — sat least till the peers pronounce
her guilty. Farewell, my lords," he added ; " I have done my
duty ; look well that you shrink not from yours ! "

Dashing aside the velvet curtain which led from the council
chamber to his closet, the king, with this indistinct menace, passed
from the room. Most of those present now breathed more freely.

On a signal from the chancellor, the doors at the lower end of the
apartment were thrown open, and Anne Boleyn, preceded as before
by the Duke of Suffolk, and surrounded by her guard, made her
appearance before them. All rose on her approach ; and one of the
attendants drew to the foot of the table a chair of state,

Where is my husband ? " she faintly demanded.

In pity to his feelings," replied the Duke of Norfolk, " we have
advised his highness to withdraw."

His feelings ! " repeated Anne. " Have you no thought of
mine ? "What mean these strange proceedings — this midnight
council, and these guards ? Of what am I accused ? "

It is our duty to inform your highness — of being faithless to
the king."

He cannot believe it ; you cannot believe it. Show me the
when or where, the probability of such an act of black ingratitude.
Cranmer — father — friend — my Lord of Norfolk — uncle — go for me
to the king — fall on your knees — entreat that he will hear me —
tell him I can explain all — that my love is still unchanged — that
I am true as the hour when first he knew me."

It must be proved, niece," said the Duke of Norfolk, coldly ;
it must be proved. Meanwhile, his highness, with the full advice
and consent of his council, hath decided that for the present you
take up your abode at the royal lodgings in the Tower."

The Tower ! " faltered Anne, who felt that all was over ; " when
must I depart ? "

With the dawn," said the duke, rising, and all the councillors
followed his example.

No hope, no aid," she murmured ; " all are false ; Cranmer,
Norfolk, Dudley, all alike desert me. Oh I may they one day feel
at their great need the sting of such ingratitude ! "

The malediction of the speaker was prophetic, as history seems
to have recorded it ; for all these were condemned to death in after
years, but one ; and he, perhaps the worst, escaped the doom.

As she was about to retire to her apartment she encountered the
eye of Patch, who whispered in her ear the name of Wolsey, and
the aged Countess of Salisbury, Margaret Plantagenet.

The Hand of Heaven hath reached me ! " she cried, "and I am
crushed beneath the blow."

L

By daybreak the following day the unhappy queen was conveyed
in her own barge to the Tower.

In this world she and the jester never met again.

CHAPTER XIX.

For man, the lawless libertine, may rove

Free and untrammelled through the wilds of love ;

But woman, sense and nature's easy tool —

If poor weak woman swerve from virtue's rule —

If strongly tempt, she quit the thorny way,

And in the softer paths of pleasure stray.

Ruin ensues, reproach, and endless shame.

And one false step entirely damns her fame. — Rowe.

On the following morning, Henry, after an interview with the
infamous Lady Rochfort, commanded that her husband — who, as
our readers will recollect, was Anne Boleyn's brother — Weston
and Bretton, gentlemen of her privy chamber, and Smeton, a
musician, should be arrested and submitted to the torture, in order
to wring from them an accusation against the unfortunate queen,
whose chief crime, in her husband's eye, was that she had outlived
his liking. None of them, however, could be induced to confess
anything against her ; but Smeton, who, in the vain hope of saving
his life, or unable to support the agonies to which he was most
mercilessly subjected, acknowledged that he had dishonoured his
royal master's bed. Henry either was, or affected to be, furious at
the intelligence, and gave orders to expedite the trial with all
possible celerity. One charge against the unhappy queen has been
treated lightly by historians of all parties — namely, that she had
been culpable with her own brother — an accusation so monstrous
and incredible, that it could only have found place in a mind as
depraved as Lady Rochfort's, who was anxious by the same stroke
to get rid of her husband and sister-in-law.

On the trial of Lord Rochfort, the only proof advanced against
him was that he had on one occasion been seen to lean upon his
sister's bed. On this he was condemned and executed.

When left in the Tower with Kingston and her female attendants,
Anne fell upon her knees, exclaiming, " Jesu, have mercy upon
me ! " She repeatedly declared her innocence to the governor,
calling herself the king's tribe wedded wife. These asseverations
were mingled with pathetic inquiries after her parents and her
sweet brother," of whose arrest she was for some days kept in
ignorance. In this harassed and feverish state, rendered almost
childish by misery and terror, Which were aggravated by contrast
with the dazzling splendour of her former state — trembling with
the apprehension of a cruel death and induced to believe that those
accused with her had confessed their guilt, when, in fact, all that

could be extracted from them, hvith the exception of Smeton,
amounted only to a confession of her levity — her days were passed
in misery and tears.

On her first examination she confessed that on one occasion,
while the king was at Winchester, Smeton came to her chamber to
play upon the virginals ; that when she saw him, she asked him
why he was so sad, and that he replied, with a sigh, " It was no
matter." She owned that Weston had said to her that Norris came
to her chamber more on her account than for Made (one of her
women), whom he pretended to be in love with, and that Weston
himself had declared to her his love, which she had repelled with
scorn and displeasure. These confessions from the vain and
thoughtless queen, trivial as they were, had the effect of increasing
the irritation of the king, who was offended by the liberties taken
with his dignity.

On the 12th of May, 1536, the trials of Norris, Smeton, Bretton,
and Weston took place in Westminster Hall . They were found guilty
and condemned, although each protested his innocence, except
Smeton, who, from his birth and character, was the least likely to
have found favour in the sight of Anne. It is remarkable that
Smeton should never have been confronted with the queen. He
shared, however, the sentence with the rest : they were all beheaded
and afterwards quartered, as guilty of high treason.

Previous to her trial, Anne addressed the following letter to the
king : —

Sir, — Your grace's displeasure and my imprisonment are
things so isti-ange to me, that what to write, or what to excuse, I
am altogether ignorant. Whereas you send unto me, willing me
to confess a truth, and so obtain your favour, by one whom you
know to be mine ancient and professed enemy. I no sooner
received your message from him than I rightly conceived your
meaning ; and if, as you say, willing to confess a truth indeed may
procure my safety, I shall with all willingness and duty perform
your command. But let not your grace ever imagine that your
poor wife will ever be brought to acknowledge a fault where not
so much as a thought ever preceded. And to speak a truth, never
prince had a wife more loyal in all duty and in all true affection
than you have ever found in Anne Boleyn, with which name and
place I could willingly have contented myself, if God and your
grace's pleasure had been so pleased. Neither did I at any time
so far forget myself in my exaltation and received queenship, but
that I always looked for such an alteration as I now find ; for the
ground of my preferment being on no surer foundation than your
grace's fancy, the least alteration I know was fit and sufficient to
draw that fancy to another object. You have chosen me from a
low estate to be your queen and companion, far beyond my desert
and desire. If, then, you found me worthy of such honour, good

your grace, let not any light fancy, or bad counsel of mine enemies,
withdraw your princely favour from me ; neither let that stain —
that unworthy stain, of a disloyal heart towards your grace — ever
cast so foul a blot on your most dutiful wife, and the infant
princess your daughter. Try me, good king ; but let me have a
lawful trial, and let not mine sworn enemies and judges sit as my
accusers ; yea, let me have an open trial, for my truth shall fear no
open shame. Then shall you see either mine innocency cleared,
your suspicions and conscience satisfied, the ignominy and slander
of the world stopped, or my guilt openly declared. So that,
whatever God or you may determine of me, your grace may be
freed of an open censure ; and, my offence being lawfully proved,
sour grace is at liberty, both before God and man, not only to
ra;ecute punishment on me as an unfaithful wife, but to follow
your affection, already settled on that party for vv^hose sake I am
now as I am, whose name I could, some good while since, have
pointed unto, your grace not being ignorant of my suspicions
therein. But if you have already determined of me, and that not
only my death, but an infamous slander, must bring you the
enjoying of your desired happiness, then I desire of God that He
will pardon your great sin therein ; and likewise mine enemies,
the instruments thereof ; and that He will not call you to a strict
account, for your princely and cruel usage of me, at His great
judgment seat, where both you and myself must shortly appear,
and in whose judgment, I doubt not — whatever the world may
think of me — mine innocence shall be openly known and sufficiently
declared.

My last and only request shall be, that myself may only bear
the burthen of your grace's displeasure, and that it may not touch
the innocent souls of those poor gentlewomen who, as I understand,
are in strict confinement for my sake. If ever I found
favour in your sight — if ever the name of Anne Boleyn hath been
pleasing in your ears — then let me obtain this request, and I will
so leave to trouble your grace any further.

Will my earnest prayers to the Trinity to have your grace in
His good keeping, and to direct your grace in all his actions,

From my doleful prison in the Tower, your most loyal and
ever-faithful wife, Anne Boleyn."

Upon the mind of Henry, this letter, which was most probably
written by Cranmer, produced little effect. His love for Jane
Seymour, who, to avoid scandal, had retired, during the decline of
the queen, to her father's seat of Wolf's Castle, rendered him deaf
to pity. "

It was a lovely, morning, on the 15th of May, when a crowd of
citizens and idlers were assembled in the great yard of the Tovv'er.
It was evidently not for a joyous occasion, for there were few

smiling faces to be seen amongst them ; all eyes were turned
towards the chapel, where prayers were being read before the
Dukes of Norfolk, Suffolk, and twenty-five peers appointed to try
the queen. The spectators were waiting impatiently for the procession
to issue forth on its way to the great hall of the Tower,
where the ceremony was to take place. The Catholics were openly
rejoicing in the prospect of Anne Boleyn's death. They hated her,
as the chief cause of the separation of Henry from the see of Rome,
but they were mistaken.

So Hal has found her out at last ! " exclaimed a fellow in a
buff jerkin and barret, whose appearance denoted that he had been
formerly an ecclesiastic. " What better could he expect, when he
took to his bed a heretic, and discarded his lawful queen ? "

Lawful queen ! " repeated a young man near him ; " your zeal,
friend, outruns your discretion. Have you forgot that by a late
statute it is declared penal to deny the validity of the king's
divorce ? Here comes the Lieutenant of the Tower ; we shall hear
his opinion of your loyalty. The queen, after all," he added, " may
keep her head longer than her enemies their liberty."

The unfrocked monk did not wait the arrival of Sir William
Kingston. The first impulse of the young man who had reproved
his brutal speech was to follow and secure him ; but a tall, grave-looking
personage, who was standing near, laid his hand upon his
arm and whispered, " Let him depart — we have a holier, higher
aim in view ; it would be folly to turn from the path even to
punish a reviler, when the ark itself is in danger. Be quiet, Louis ;
let us bide our time."

The young man yielded, and the incident passed without further
notice.

By this time the religious service was ended, and the great doors
of the chapel were thrown oiDcn. First came a party of the yeomen
of the king's guard, their partisans reversed in sign of mourning ;
these were followed by a herald, bearing the writ which authorised
the trial ; then came the peers, two by two, dressed in their robes,
but without their coronets.

The Chancellor Audley and the Duke of Norfolk, uncle to Anne,
but her bitterest enemy, who had been created high steward on
the occasion, closed the procession.

Curses or benedictions were muttered, according to the sentiments
of the crowd, as the judges passed to the great hall in the
White Tower, which had been fitted up as a court on the occasion,
and where a chair of state had been placed for Anne Boleyn.

On being brought to the bar, the unhappy queen was accused by
the Chancellor of adultery With her brother and the four other
prisoners already convicted, and also with having conspired against
the life ©f the king.

Answer," said her uncle, in a cold, harsh voice, as soon as the

indictment was finished. " Anne, queen-consort of England, are
you guilty or not guilty ? "

Not guilty ! " she replied, rising from her seat with dignity ;
in word, in thought, or deed, or aught that can be construed by
malice self to treason against my husband, to whom I am bound
by honour, gratitude, and unchanged love."

Gratitude ! " repeated Norfolk, with a sneer ; " tut, tut ! "

Gratitude," repeated Anne ; "• for my lord first from a mean
woman raised me to be a marchioness, next to be his queen ; and
now," she added, bitterly, " seeing that he has no further honour
to bestow on earth, he seeks by martyrdom to make of me a saint
in heaven. Wonder you, then, that I am grateful — oh, most
grateful ! "

Amongst other charges alleged against her, she was accused of
having said to each of her supposed paramour that the king never
had her heart, and that she loved him better than any person
whatsoever, which was to the slander of the issue begotten between
the king and her. This, according to the law which was made for
the succession of Anne's children, was treason. Few witnesses
were called. Smeton was never confronted with her ; all that was
alleged was merely hearsay ; she was, nevertheless, found guilty,
and sentenced to be beheaded or burned, according to the king's
pleasure. No sooner did the wretched woman hear the sentence
than she fell upon her knees, exclaiming :

•' Father ! Creator ! Thou that art the Way, the Truth,
and the Life, Thou knowest that I have not deserved this death ! "

An awful adjuration, if she were really culpable ; but sublime,
if she were innocent.

Sir William Kingston," said Norfolk, " re-conduct her majesty
to her apartments."

Uncle," said Anne, turning proudly to him, " my blood rest
upon sour soul. You have stamped infamy upon your name,
immortality upon me. You, my kinsman, have been both judge
and accuser ; you have interrupted my defence, mocked at my
reasonings, turned a deaf ear to my plea. An hour, perhaps, will
come when others will prove as deaf to you as you have been to me."

With these words the speaker left the great hall of the Tower,
and, preceded by the governor and her guards, retired to her prison
in the royal lodgings.

Lord Rochfort was next arraigned, and replied to the charge in
the same way his sister had done, declaring his innocence. The
only grounds of accusation against him were, that he had been
seen leaning against the bed of the queen ; yet he was condemned
to be beheaded and quartered — a sentence which was executed on
the 17th of May, without any confession either from him or his
companions, all of whom, with the exception of Smeton, declared
their innocence to the last. Great obscurity must ever rest upon

the guilt or innocence of the queen. The minutes of her trial were
carefully destroyed, but whether by the orders of her infuriated
husband, or by those of her daughter Elizabeth, has never been
ascertained.

While Henry meditated the destruction of his queen, he also
resolved, with an inconsistency peculiar to himself, to dissolve the
marriage for which he had risked so much, and which had once
been the object of his dearest wishes. Cranmer — the convenient
Cranmer — called an ecclesiastical court ; and on the plea of Anne's
previous contract with the young Lord Percy, dissolved the union
which he had formerly pronounced valid, thereby pronouncing his
infant god-daughter, the Princess Elizabeth, illegitimate.

No sooner did Anne reach her private apartments than she gave
way to all the violence of her grief, and indulged in passionate
exclamations of reproach and teiTor.

For this," she murmured, " I broke my faith to Wyat ; for this
urged Henry to dethrone his queen. God ! the lesson I have
taught falls on my head with fearful judgment — my throne has
become a scaffold — my sceptre is turned into an axe — the omen of
my coronation is complete."

Courage, madam," said the compassionate Lady Kingston, who
pitied her distress, '' the king may yet relent, and mercy "

Mercy ! " shrieked Anne, hysterically — " Henry's mercy —
ha ! ha ! ha ! Preach of the tiger's mildness or the vulture's pity.
These prison stones are not more deaf to mercy than his selfish
heart. I must die," she added. " From her regal tomb Katherine
of Arragon rises to beckon me — coldly she smiles, and, with her
bony fingers, points to a yawning grave. Save me from her,
Kingston ! — shield me ! — cover me from her destroying gaze ! "

The terrified creature veiled her burning eyelids with her
trembling hand, as if to shut out from her sight the fearful spectre
which her excited imagination had conjured up. Lady Kingston,
who really felt for her charge, for she was of the Reformed faith
herself, hastily advanced to the manchet table, and pouring some
wine into a small silver cup, offered it 'to the unhappy woman, who
mechanically raised it to her lips, and was about to drink it, when
her eye caught the colour ; shudderingly she cast it from her,
exclaiming that it was blood — Salisbury's blood — and that she
dared not drink it.

Not so, madam — it is wine I proffer you."

I tell you it is blood ! " repeated Anne, passionately, for her
excitement now approached delirium ; " I ought to know — 'tis not
the first time I have tasted it. See how my victims stalk before
me : — the royal Katherine, her uncrowned brow furrowed by grief,
her pale cheek wet with tears ; Wolsey, with his proud look and
broken heart — the fierce Plantagenet, who mocked my state, and
called me Henry's minion — ha ! did I not well requite her ? — and

Mary — no, not Mary ; thank Heaven, she never will accuse me at
its bar."

Here a flood of tears fortunately came to her relief, and she
sank, sobbing like an exhausted child, upon the shoulder of Lady
Kingston, whose heart was torn between her duty and her
sympathy ; for, as we said before, she was of the Reformed faith,
and had already been practised on by the friends of the unhappy
queen.

All is not lost," she whispered soothingly ; " you have friends
who love you still."

"Friends!" petulantly repeated Anne, "ay, in my summer
hours ; but they all vanished when misfortune came ! Death is the
only friend which now remains to me."

Yes, one more — Hope."

Hope ! " said the queen.

Can you be cautious ? — hide from the prying eye of those
around, who are but spies upon us," demanded Lady Kingston,
"the secret joy — the hidden confidence — the promises of safety ? "

I can," eagerly answered Anne, in whose heart the love of life
began to prevail over her terrors.

Her companion, after first carefully securing the door which led
to the ante-chamber, where the queen's women were seated,
approached a panel in the wainscot, directly opposite to the
chimney, and gave three distinct knocks. To the prisoner's
astonishment, they were returned.

"What — who is that ? " she whispered in breathless agitation.

Hojje,'^ replied the lady in the same undertone.

Taking a peculiarly-formed key from her bosom, she applied it
to an aperture in one of the interstices of the elaborately-carved
mouldings, and the panel revolved upon a sort of axis, displaying
to the astonished queen an opening, at the back of which appeared
a flight of stairs. Two young men — the same who had reproved
the fellow for his insolence in the court-yard of the Tower —
entered from the recess. They were no other than the son of Sir
Richard Everil and Louis d'Auverne, who had been chosen by the
Reformers to execute the plan which, with the assistance of Lady
Kingston, they had formed for Anne Boleyn's escape. They had
both, unknown to Patch or to Sir Richard, quitted Antwerp for
that purpose. "With a respect to which the captive had long been
a stranger, they bent the knee, and kissed the hand she extended
to them.

Not the knee," she murmured, " not the knee. I am no longer
Henry's queen, whose smile gave life and honour ; but a poor
captive, a defenceless wretch, whom cruel men have doomed to
die ; then do not mock me with a state no longer mine."

Thine, lady," said Louis, gazing on her vvrith a look of in' sense
admiration, for his young heart was touched by her distress t and

danger — " thine is the royalty of soul which no adversity can shake.
Thou art an Esther to thy people. He whose cause thou hast
served on earth will still uphold thee, and warring angels combat
on thy side."

Eagerly Anne glanced from Lady Kingston to the strangers, as
if to demand an explanation of their purpose, and the mysterious
means by which they had entered her apartment.

I told you," whispered the former, " there was hope."

They are but boys," mournfully observed Anne, who could not
conceive how her safety could possibly be achieved by such week
instruments.

Philistia's host," observed Everil, who overheard the observation,
" was scattered by a boy. A rush is a better weapon than a
sword, when His will gives courage to the arm which wields it.
The path which brought us to thy prison, queen, may serve thee to
escape."

True," said Anne, eagerly ; " lose not a moment ! Death lurks
within these walls ; in every shadow I see his grisly presence.
Let us away at once ! "

Impossible ! our vessel is not yet prepared, and night must
veil our footsteps, for we have the inner as well as the outward
ward to cross. For two days be patient, lady."

Two days ! " repeated the captive ; " still two days of doubt,
suspense, and terror ? But whither," she added, " whither can I
ally ? In all my husband's wide domains, where is the nook to
shelter me ? "

You have friends at Antwerp, lady," observed Louis — " friends
Who would die to serve you. There, till happier days shall dawn,
you can repose in confidence and peace."

Antwerp ! " repeated Anne, after a moment's reflection. " Good !
place seas between me and Henry's wrath."

You will trust us, then ? " eagerly demanded the youngest of
her two mysterious visitors.

Trust thee ! I never thought of that," she murmured. " Trust
thee ! whom can the wretched Anne Boleyn trust, when all conspire
her ruin ? But thou," she added, fixing her tearful eyes upon the
youth, " hast never dwelt in courts, art young in years, hast all the
freshness of the heart upon thee. Yes, I will trust thee, for I have
uo other trust, no other hope."

Save God," added Everil, solemnly.

Save God," repeated Anne, for her pride and levity were gone.

It was finally agreed that two nights hence they were to return
with a disguise for the captive queen, and conduct her by. the
secret passage to a boat moored near the Traitor's Gate, where sure
friends would wait them. Once more kissing the hand of the
prisoner, they disappeared down the mysterious staircase, and Lady
Kingston closed the panel after them.

"Will they keep faith with me ? " demanded the prisoner of her
companion, " or is it but one of those delusive rays which malignant
Fortune sends to mock the wi-etch's hope ? "

Fear not they will keep faith with you," said Lady Kingston.
You will meet again."

The two Lollards — for, under the influence of his friend Everil,
d'Auverne had become one — left the chamber of the captive queen,
and descended the stairs artfully concealed in the walls of the
White Tower, where the royal lodgings were situated. The secret
passage terminated in a low, arched room, upon the basement story,
inhabited by the widow of an ancient warder, who, in consideration
of her husband's services, was allowed to drag out the remnant of
her miserable existence there. Quiet and unassuming in her
manner, she had frequently been the unsuspected means of intercourse
between the captives of tyranny and superstition with their
friends.

The two conspirators made their way, on quitting the Tower, to
a small house of entertainment frequented chiefly by watermen,
soldiers, and warders of the Tower, and known by the name of the
King's Staff. The host, Joe Hopkins, or, as he was more familiarly
called, Tun-bellied Joe, was a model of a landlord ; provided a
guest paid his reckoning, he asked no questions, made no speculations
as to his whereabouts, or idle comments upon his means.

As Everil and his companion crossed the hill, they did not
observe that they were followed by a man, dressed in the garb of a
sailor, who dodged them to their lodging, and, entering the lower
room, chose a position so near the window that he could watch all
who either entered or left the house. As may be supposed, the
trial and condemnation were the topics of conversation of Joe's
customers.

So," exclaimed a fellow, the same who had so freely expressed
his opinion in the Tower yard, " the eyes of our good king have
been opened at last, and the harmonies of the young queen made
clear."

Harmonies ! " repeated several in a dissatisfied tone ; for Anne
Boleyn was becoming popular since her misfortunes.

Proved ! " continued the speaker in a voice of triumph ;
proved ! Else would her own uncle have condemned her, so near
a relative and friend ? "

Here comes her last friend," observed one of the warders ;
few complain of the world's cares who have passed by his hands."

The party assembled at the King's Staff rose and looked through
the window. A man with a long white beard was passing —
evidently an ecclesiastic. It was the Chaplain of the Tower.

He was a singular character, was Father Anselm ; grave, as
became his ofi&ce, shy of conversation and vain gossipping. It
was to the unfortunate, the hopeless, the condemned, that he

devoted his sympathies ; in the prison cell, or by the scaffold, he
spoke with an unction which earnestness rendered eloquent, and
faith sublime. In the course of his long career, what strange confidences
had he not received — what fearful mysteries had been
made known to him ! Were it possible to call the old man from
his grave in the Tower chapel, and place the page of history before
him, what curious errors would he not be enabled to correct !
Clarence — he of the malmsey di-aught — Rivers, Stanley, Dudley,
the aged Countess of Salisbury, and her sons, all had passed the
solemn hour which precedes death with him — hung on his words
of promise, or breathed their last maddening curse into his aged
ear, as they either met their fate with hope, or died despairing.

The sailor who had followed the two young men into the house
had risen like the rest to notice him ; but an expression of pain and
sickness came over his countenance as he fixed his eyes upon him,
and he resumed his seat.

A few moments afterwards young Everil left the house. The
spy, for such he appeared, noticed his departure, and paying for
the mead he had been drinking, left the own, but not the house,
for instead of turning to the door, he leisurely mounted the narrow
wooden stairs which conducted to the chambers above, in one of
which Louis d'Auverne was seated, waiting the return of his companion.
The book he had been reading fell from his hand as the
door opened and the sailor entered the apartment.

Patch ! " he exclaimed, rising and throwing his arms around
the jester's neck ; " I thought you in Antwerp."

Where you should have been, rash boy ! " interrupted his visitor ;
why have you left the secure asylum where I placed you with
Sir Richard Everil ? "

My motive was a virtuous one,"

Say rather a foolish one, Cans thou struggle, boy, with fate ? —
tear from the book of time the page which destiny hath writ ?
As easy mayst thou think to accomplish this as save Anne Boleyn."

How know you my project ? " demanded Louis, in a tone of
surprise,

I am an interpreter of dreams," replied Patch ; " and thine is
one."

"Which shall be realised, if wit or courage can achieve it.
Friend, father*, guardian ! " he added, " hadst thou but seen her in
her wondrous beauty — in the lone desolation of her heart — e'en
thy cold nature would have pitied her,"

I do pity her," quietly observed his visitor.

"And wilt join with us to save her ? "

"'"No ! " exclaimed the jester sternly ; " not for the tortures and

the wrongs I have myself endured, but for her unrelenting hate of

one whose mind, with all its faults, was great and noble ; whose

heart, despite its weakness, generous ; whose high career she

thwarted ; whose fallen state she mocked. Hadst thou, as I did,
seen him on the death-bed where Anne Boleyn brought him,
torturing him by insult, hopes deferred, and bitter mockeries, thy
heart would be as cold and fixed as mine."

You speak of Wolsey ? " observed Louis.

Ay — of her victim."

The victim of his measureless ambition, of pride and "

Hold ! " said the jester, in a voice so stern and harsh that the
speaker started from his seat ; " whatever his faults, presume not
thou to judge him."

Was he more than man ? " demanded the youth with a smile.

"Yes, to thee. One word of censure from thy lips were to
blaspheme 'gainst nature — to reverse creation's laws. Let ignorance
mock the pang it cannot feel, or malice brand where mercy fain
would hide. Ants judge the stars, and pygmies war with fate ; but
let not the son presume to judge his father."

Father ! " shrieked Louis. " Is this the mystery which, like a
shadow, hath followed me through life — the cloud o'er my young
path, the gloom upon my heart ? Was that great, bold man indeed
my father ? "

Overcome by the excitement of the discovery, the speaker sank
upon his seat, and for awhile wept bitterly. For a few minutes
the jester suffered the natural sorrow to have way, nor attempted
to check it by ill-timed consolation. When, by its violence, his
emotion had exhausted itself, he drew his chair beside him, and
commenced the narrative of his father's fall, his own sufferings
and tortures, and Anne Boleyn's treachery. The commencement
was breathed into the ear of one who would have died to serve her ;
its last words were listened to by her bitterest enemy.

It was near midnight when the jester took his leave.

The night previous to the day fixed upon for her execution,
Anne Boleyn had obtained permission of Sir William Kingston
should be passed with her confessor alone ; for the species of
Protestantism which the queen professed retained much of Catholicity
both in its forms and dogmas : it was reserved for Edward Viand
Elizabeth to render the separation complete. At midnight she
was told the folding doors at the back of her chamber would be
opened, and the priest be seated in his oratory ready to receive
her ; from his ministry she would pass to the executioner.

"Courage," whispered Lady Kingston to the captive, as she
followed her husband from the chamber ; " all is arranged ; before
the hour of midnight friends will be here."

She glanced at the panel leading to the secret passage as she
spoke ; the next minute the prisoner was alone. For awhile she
continued to pace her prison floor, meditating on the past, or laying
plans for the future — a future she was never doomed to see — and
her eye alternately brightened or was dimmed by tears, as hope or

fear prevailed. That very day she had been privately conveyed to
Lambeth to listen to the sentence of divorce which Cranmer had
not hesitated, at the will of her capricious husband, to pronounce.
Her soul was bitter, and her regret at the prospect of quitting
England, even though she had worn a crown there, was considerably
lessened.

Fool ! " she sighed, " I have been a fool, dazzled by a bauble,
w-hose reality has mocked my hope ; for Henry and his detested
love I sacrificed the heart of Wyat, my own wishes, my girlhood's
preference, and my happiness. Thank Heaven that I am free from
the gilded chain at last ; and once in France — dear France — my
harassed soul may taste again of peace. Peace," she added,
gloomily ; " no, Henry's hate will pursue me even there. I must
seek out some desolate nook, if I would live secure from his
resentment."

At this moment a creaking noise was heard, the panel opened,
and Louis entered the chamber.

They come," she whispered to herself in a triumphant voice.
The scaffold and the headsman are in vain. ! how the tyrant's
heart will flow with gall when he shall hear I have escaped him ! "

By this time the young man stood in the centre of the room,
regarding her with an expression at once so stern and melancholy,
that, despite her confidence and hope, the speaker trembled.

Let us not lose an instant ! " she exclaimed, at the same time
throwing a large mantle which Lady Kingston had purposely left
in her apartment over her usual dress. " At twelve the priest will
await me ; after him the axe. We have no time to lose."

Lady," said Louis, coldly, " you say truly — you have no time to
lose."

What mean you ? "

That at twelve the priest will wait you, and after him the axe."

'' How ! " shrieked Anne, " have my hopes played me false, or
treachery deceived them ? Are my friends untrue, or their vile
agent faithless ? "

Thy friends are true to thee," replied Louis ; " the boat is
manned — the secret path is clear — the road to freedom unsuspected.
/ only bar thy passage."

*' Thou," repeated Anne, in a tone of surprise. " What cause ? "

What cause ? Lady, I will tell thee for what cause. I had a
father — a noble-gifted man ; humble in birth, but lofty in his
pride ; he had a mind to grasp an empire or to rule the world ;
and yet a woman's will — a wanton's smile — could hurl this master-spirit
from its height, and take a pigmy's pleasure in a giant's
pangs. Art thou answered ? "

'' Wolsey ! " murmured Anne.

I had a friend," continued the excited speaker, " who, to save
my father, obtained a written proof that Anne Boleyn sold herself.

like vilest merchandise, to the man she loathed — breaking her
plighted faith to wear a crown. This faithful friend — faithful upon
the rack — was captured, tortured by Anne Boleyn's will. Art thou
answered ? "

Patch ! " exclaimed the conscience-stricken queen.

The Lady Salisbury — Pole — " added Louis.

Are fearfully avenged," interrupted Anne. " Save me ! for I
am not fit to die. My soul is charged with such a black account,
I fear to sum it o'er. Save me ! " she almost shrieked, clinging to
him in wild alarm, for the light began to gleam through the
crevices of the oratory door, showing that the priest was at his
post. " Another minute it will be too late. ! by your soul's
young hope, have mercy ! "

Wolsey ! " sternly interrupted Louis.

As, at your last hour, you trust for mercy ! "

Patch ! " continued the young man.

Lost ! " said Anne Boleyn, "lost ! "

At the same instant the doors of the oratory slowly unfolded,
displaying the altar ready lit, and the priest of the Tower waiting
to receive her. As she tottered towards him, Louis disappeared
through the secret passage. Anne Boleyn and the minister of
consolation remained alone.

CHAPTER XX.

On entering the apartment of the royal captive at an early hour
the following morning. Lady Kingston was astonished to find
Anne Boleyn kneeling before the altar in the oratory, absorbed in
prayer.

Alas, madam," exclaimed the astonished wife of the governor,
why do I find you here ? Have your friends proved treacherous
or weak ? Long ere this I deemed the waters of the deep rose
between you and this sad, unhappy day. Know you not — that ? —
spare my tongue the rest."

Here the speaker, who was deeply attached to the condemned
queen, burst into tears, and wrung her hands in the impotence of
sorrow.

I know what you would say," replied Anne, with a faint smile,
the day that I must die. If God has willed it so, it were impious
to repine. I am glad," she added, " the morning is o'ercast and
gloomy ; I shall feel less reluctance to meet my doom than if the
sun shone brightly and the heavens were rife with balm and
music."

Such as the day," observed Lady Kingston, " you landed at the
Tower previous to your coronation."

VOL. II. X 2

"The day of the month ? " exclaimed the captive, turning deadly-pale.


The nineteenth of May."

Three years previously, day for day, in all the flush of beauty
and the pomp of royalty, she had been conveyed by her then loving
husband from Greenwich to the Tower, previous to her coronation.
The coincidence of date was striking, and its contrasts appalled her.
Now she was a captive, about to die. For a few moments her fortitude
gave way, and pressing her hands to her throbbing temples,
she wept the bitter tears of terror and despair,

To feel the life-blood beating at my heart," she cried, " life in
each vein — life in all around — yet know that I must die ! Cursed,"
she continued, " be the hour in which my fatal beauty caught the
tyrant's lust, and doubly cursed the folly which believed him,
which sold my young heart for an empty pageant ! Had I been
bleared, deformed, ill-favoured, I might at least have lived securely,
though unloved. Katherine, Katherine ! dearly art thou
avenged ! "

Madam," said Lady Kingston, " remember you have been a
queen."

"And am," continued Anne, proudly, "Let the convenient
Cranmer — doubly perjured — dissolve the knot he tied ; let venal
councils confirm the trickster's sentence : despite them all, I am a
queen — queen of a mightier king than Tudor's blood-stained line
can boast : the queen of Death."

Daughter," said the aged priest, rising from the steps of the
altar, where he had passed the night with her in prayer, " let not
the veils of earth obscure thy view of heaven ; let not the regrets,
the weak affections, or the heart's strong passions, cause thee to
cast one lingering look upon the shore thou art about to quit forever
; direct it rather to that better land where the worn soul, like
to some desperate bark tossed on misfortune's sea, may find a haven
of repose at last."

At the calm, passionless voice of the chaplain, the bitterness and
excitement which had so strongly shaken her became subdued, and
Anne Boleyn once more regained a degree of self-possession which,
to the last moment, did not again desert her.

What is the hour ? " she demanded of her compassionate
friend.

Nine," replied Lady Kingston.

And the one appointed for my execution ? " added the queen
calmly,

Twelve," sobbed the generous lady. " The Dukes of Norfolk
and of Richmond, together with the chancellor and Cromwell,
already have arrived. Still there must be hope ; the king may yet
relent ; he cannot shed the blood once so dear to him, rendering
his child motherless, and himself a murderer."

The victim faintly smiled. She knew too well the heart of
Henry to entertain the least hope of mercy ; indeed, for some time
she had been haunted with terror, lest he should have executed, in
all its horrors, the sentence of the court, which condemned her to
be burnt alive — the dread of which alone, it is supposed, induced
her to comply with the tyrant's will, and confess a previous
contract with Lord Percy, when examined before the primate and
several of the peers at Lambeth, which confession was afterwards
made the ground of the divorce between Henry and herself.
The king, with an inconsistency peculiar to his character, beheaded
Anne Boleyn for being faithless to a marriage which Cranmer had
just declared to have been no marriage at all.

Lady Kingston," said the queen, " I have a request — I will not
say which you must grant ; but which, if dying words have weight,
or gentle thoughts of pity dwell in woman's heart, you will not
sure refuse me."

The party thus adjured could only answer by her tears. The
speaker understood them, and, taking her by the hand, led her to
the canopied chair of state, which still remained in the apartment
-^for to the last the prisoner was treated as a queen — and, after
some resistance, forced her to seat herself in it.

Lady Kingston was surprised ; and the priest looked on her with
an inquiring eye.

"When you shall see the Lady Mary, Katherine's injured child,"
exclaimed Anne, " do, in my name, as I do now." Here she cast
herself upon her knees before the chair, " And as you shall
answer to God for the fidelity of your promise, repeat my very
words : — In His name who suffered for us all, I ask her pardon for
the wrongs she has received. I sue for it in her sainted mother's
name. Paint to her my tears and my remorse, my woman's
agony and shame, my fall and fearful death ; nor rise till she
relents."

The bitterness of death indeed is past," exclaimed the chaplain
of the Tower, " when thou hast gained this victory o'er thy heart ;
that once subdued, all that remains is easy."

At this moment there were three distinct knocks at the door of
the apartment. Lady Kingston started from the chair of state and
turned deadly pale. A noise at the same moment was heard, as if
from the weeping of women in the ante-chamber. Anne calmly
seated herself in the vacated seat, and motioned to the priest to
unbar the door.

The dukes of Norfolk and Richmond, together with the nobles
deputed by Henry to witness her last moments, were announced
by Sir William Kingston, whose countenance was unusually grave.

Admit them," said the captive, calmly.

Will not your majesty first be served ? " demanded the governor.

I have supped," said Anne, " on angels' food, and will not

break my fast again on earth. I hear," she added, " that I am not
to die till noon. I regret it ; by this time I had thought to have
been past all pain."

Fear not for the pain, madam," said Sir William, respectfully ;
it will be no pain — it is so settle " (quick.)

Fear ! " repeated Anne ; " I have no fear. I have heard that the
executioner is very quick. Besides," she added, " I have a little
neck — it will soon be over."

And clasping her hands about it, she laughed heartily.

The above trait of levity, at such an awful moment, would
scarcely have been believed, had not the governor of the Tower
recorded it in a letter to Cromwell, which is still extant.

The lords commissioners now entered the chamber. Despite his
effrontery, the Duke of Norfolk, Anne's unworthy uncle, who had
condemned her, could not meet the eye of his injured kinswoman.
The Duke of Richmond, Henry's illegitimate son, appeared overwhelmed
with grief. He was young ; and the unhappy queen, in
the days of her influence and prosperity, had ever treated him with
kindness. The chancellor and Cromwell were cold and impassible
as usual.

Anne motioned to them that she was prepared to hear them.

Marchioness of Pembroke," began the chancellor.

Marchioness of Pembroke ! " repeated Anne, her countenance
suddenly flushed with virtuous indignation.

Such," continued the chancellor, " is your fitting title, since the
ecclesiastical courts have declared your marriage with his majesty
the king null and void."

Marchioness, then," said Anne, with a bitter smile. " Pray
proceed."

The great law officers of the crown proceeded to read the parchment,
which bore the great seal of England. By it the king
pardoned her death by the stake, to which she had been originally
condemned, and changed the sentence into beheading.

If Marchioness of Pembroke," said Anne, when he had
concluded, " the sentence affects not me ; it is as Henry's wife
alone that I can be condemned. Knaves ! " she added, " Borrj
knaves ! do you not see your malice but defeats its vile intent, and
justifies mine innocence in this ? "

The addressing of the speaker as marchioness had been a
gratuitous piece of insolence on the part of Lord Audley, the
chancellor, who was strongly attached to the party of Katherine,
and who had laboured hard to induce the king to pass the Act
which subsequently declared the Princess Elizabeth illegitimate,
thereby placing both of Henry's daughters on an equal footing.
The calm reply of the queen was too forcible to be overlooked.
From that moment to the last of her existence the commissioners
never omitted to address her as queen.

"You have heard the merciful intentions of the king," said
Norfolk, harshly, "and we are here to see them carried into
execution."

"Your fitting oflBce, my kind uncle, Avould have been the
executioner's ; but pray proceed."

In an hour," added Richmond, " we shall attend your grace."

You will find me ready, my good lord ; my spirit longs to cast
earth's garments off. Mine enemies this night may envy me my
sleep. I presume my women may attend me ? "

The commissioners bowed assent, and demanded if she had any
further request to make which their duty to the king or the strict
letter of their instructions would enable them to grant.

Nothing."

In an hour, then, we will attend your grace."

An hour."

And the commissioners, struck bj- her dignity of manner and
firm bearing, bowed, as they left the chamber, with a respect
deeper perhaps than they had shown in her days of pride and
power.

The precincts of the White Tower were crowded by persons of
all ranks and ages to behold the fearful tragedy about to be
consummated. Amongst the common people an idea prevailed
that the sentence would never be carried into execution. Amongst
the Catholics, we regret to say that many were present to glut their
hatred by witnessing the execution of a woman whose elevation
had been not only fatal to their interests, but destructive to their
faith. Many thought that with Anne Boleyn's death the days of
the Reformed faith were counted ; but Henry and his parliament
too keenly appreciated the sweets of plunder to forego the spoliation.
Many of the Reformers were also gathered there, gazing with
anxious faces on the gloomy scaffold hung with black, and its
dread paraphernalia, the block, the axe, and the masked executioner.

How old Kate," observed a fellow who, by dint of squeezing,
had obtained a place directly opposite to the scaffold, " must chuckle
in her grave at Peterborough at this morning's work ! The fall of
the axe will be enough to startle even her earth-plugged ear. Her
rival has not long enjoyed her crown."

Longer than she will enjoy one in heaven," muttered an old
woman near him. She had been a sister of the convent at Eltham,
and, like many others of her order, on the suppression of the house,
cast inhumanly upon the world, to beg or starve, by Henry's
vicegerent Cromwell, whose rapacity was only equalled by the
infamy of the means by which he gratified it. As we before
stated, he was one of the commissioners appointed to witness the
death of the unhappy queen. He little thought, as he walked
proudly through the courtyard of the Tower, that the next procession
he would figure in there would be to hia own execution.

Although he had been Wolsey's secretary, he had not learnt this
truth : that the further you advance in royal favour, the more
slippery the path becomes.

By the ramparts, close to the archway leading to the royal
lodgings, where the prisoner had been kept, were several courtiers
and gentlemen, who were either in attendance on the commissioners,
or had made interest with the authorities to witness the procession,
which they were as eager to behold as their descendants, our
modern aristocracy, used to be to witness a hanging match at Newgate.
The bell of the chapel of the Tower announced that they
were about to be gratified.

First walked a strong body of the train bands, headed by their
respective officers ; for rumours of an attempt at rescue had been
rife in the City for several days, and Sir William Kingston had
taken his precautions. He little knew how nearly the sympathy
or weakness of his lady had succeeded in defeating them.

Next came the commissioners in their robes of state, followed by
the Lord Mayor of London — the same who had so boldly declared
upon her trial that the only thing he could understand from the
proceedings was, that everybody wanted to get rid of her — king,
witnesses, and judges. He walked with a discontented air, as ill
satisfied with the part he was compelled to take in the doleful
pageant, for the young queen had been a favourite with the City.

The civic functionary was succeeded by a party of the yeomen of
the guard, dressed in the same quaint costume in which we behold
them at the present day, with the arms and cipher of Henry VIII.
embroidered on their backs and breasts ; as usual, they bore their
long gilt partisans.

Sir William Kingston, governor of the Tower, bareheaded, and
bearing his staff: of office, followed next ; but all eyes were fixed
upon the queen, who, dressed in black velvet, her features partially
veiled by the sombre drapery which fell from her lovely head,
walked firmly after him. In her right hand she held a book of
prayers, the same which she afterwards gave to a sister of Sir
Thomas Wyat, who attended to disrobe her on the scaffold, which
was for many years guarded as a relic by the poet's descendants.

There was neither fever nor excitement in the victim's face ;
she appeared neither awed by the thronging multitude, nor weakly
cast down by the approach of death ; an air of holy resignation
showed that, as the aged priest had predicted, the sting of death
was really past : a martyr going to the stake could not have
looked more beautiful or more resigned.

As the mournful procession passed along many an eye was
dimmed with tears ; men remembered her charity, and contrasted
the splendour of her past existence with the terror of the present
hour. Even the more Catholic portion of the spectators, who
looked upon her as the primeval cause of the downfall of the

ancient faith in England, changed the half-muttered curse and
smile of triumph to a look of commiseration and a parting prayer.

Arrived at the foot of the scaffold, the halberdiers divided, and
the victim mounted with a firm step the fatal stairs. A chair,
covered with black cloth, had been placed for her reception, in
which she seated herself, whilst her weeping female attendants
ranged themselves at the back. Every tower and parapet of the
old fortress, that regain den of blood and crime, was lined with
spectators entranced by the interest and horror of the scene. A
queen was about to die — a criminal or a martyr, according as men
judged her, about to appear before the throne of Him to whom the
heart and its deep mysteries are as an open page. Faithful to his
mission, the aged priest, bearing the crucifix, stood beside her,
whispering the last consolation — the parting prayer — in her sad
ears ; whilst Sir William Kingston read, in a deep voice, the
warrant for her execution, and concluded with the usual formula
of " God save the king ! " Not one voice in that breathless, vast
assemblage, echoed him ; and of the commissioners, the obsequious
Duke of Norfolk alone bowed his head ; Richmond was drowned
in tears, and the chancellor occupied in whispering the orders to
the executioner.

See that your axe is sharp and your arm steady," he muttered
to the gaunt figure who, clothed in scarlet, watched, with professional
indifference, the scene in which he was to perform so
dreadful a part, and at which so many were drowned in tears.

'• Fear not, my lord," replied the headsman ; " Hugo of Calais
never yet struck twice."

The assurance was not altogether an idle boast. The speaker,
who was the public executioner of Calais, at that time an English
possession, had been sent for expressly to perform his disgusting
office on account of his dexterity. He was as unmoved at the
beauty and rank of his victims as the senseless block against which
his axe was placed.

As soon as the reading of the fatal document was finished, Anne
rose from her chair, and briefly addressed the noblemen around
her. Her voice was silvery and clear ; and so hushed were the
spectators, that it was heard by nearly all the numerous assembly.

I am come," she said, " to die as I am judged by law. I accuse
none, nor say anything of the grounds upon which I am judged."
Falling on her knees, she added : " Father of all, be gi-gracious to that
most merciful and pious prince my husband. He hath been to mea
good and gentle lord, full of kindness and forbearing." Rising,
she expressed a wish that if anyone would meddle in her cause
they would judge it for the best, and concluded by entreating all
present to pray for her, and her friends to pardon her if she had
not always showed them as much kindness as her means enabled
her to do.

Whether this was an acknowledgment of her guilt, or a penance
imposed on her proud heart by the consciousness of her treachery
to Katherine and Wyat, as an atonement for her broken vows to
her husband or her lover, is a question now almost impossible to
decide, every minute of her trial having been carefully destroyed
by her enraged husband or her crafty daughter Elizabeth.

These words, which are historical, leave her advocates in one
of two dilemmas — that she was either a wanton or a hypocrite.
Who shall decide ?

One of her women, the sister of the poet Wyat — the only man
whom perhaps she had ever sincerely loved — half drowned in tears,
approached to render her the last sad offices ; Anne had herself
selected her for the occasion.

Courage," she whispered, with a placid smile, at the same time
placing her manuscript prayer-book, which "Alas set in gold and
enamelled black, in her hands.

The attendant knew for whom it was intended.

Her women now removed the long black veil which, like a
sombre cloud, shaded her pale face ; at which moment a sickly
gleam of sunshine broke forth and fell upon her countenance,
never more beautiful, perhaps, than at that hour ; her long fair
locks fell on her neck — that hair, so lately hung with gems, amid
whose silken curls the wanton fingers of her cruel husband so oft
had strayed.

A groan of anguish burst from the crowd as Mary Wyat gathered
those curls in her fingers, and twisted them tightly round the
victim's head.

The executioner quietly removed the axe, on which he had
hitherto been leaning, from the block, and coolly passed his
practised fingers along the edge as if to reassure himself of its
sharpness. A shudder ran through the crowd : they felt that the
last fearful scene of a dismal tragedy was approaching.

One of her women offered her an embroidered handkerchief to
bind her eyes, which Anne rejected with a motion of her hand,
and advanced firmly towards the block, declining all support. As
she passed that portion of the scaffold where her uncle the Duke
of Norfolk was standing, she paused for an instant, and her brow
became suddenly flushed ; it was but a momentary weakness ; a
glance from the aged priest, who walked beside her, holding the
crucifix to her view, recalled her to herself. The hour for all
human resentment was past ; and she continued her way, uttering,
as she moved along : " Pray for me ! Pray for me ! "

Kneeling upon the cushion placed for her at the foot of the block,
she prayed long and fervently. Her last words were : " To Christ
I commend my spirit ! " In this hope she died, for her soul
accompanied her parting prayer to the judgment seat of heaven.
The words had scarcely passed her lips than she bowed her head ;

an arm was raised, and the swift flashing of steel seen in the air.
A dull heavy sound followed, and all was over.

The executioner kept his boast : there was no occasion to strike
twice.

Thus was ended a life of much celebrity and of great importance
in the annals of this country. A few hours afterwards the body
of this once idolised woman, whom Henry had risked his kingdom
to obtain, was thrown into a common chest made of elm tree, used
for the purpose of keeping arrows, and buried in the chapel of the
Tower.

Tradition still points out the mound at Richmond where Henry
went alone to watch for the signal which announced that he was
once more free to wed, which he did with Jane Seymour in the
course of the very week in which her predecessor suffered decapitation,
Henry having first testified his indifference to the horrible
event which had occurred by wearing white as mourning for
07ie day.

The remains of the once gay Anne were scarcely conveyed to
their resting-place, than a bark, which had for several daj's been
lying near the Tower stairs, left its moorings, and glided slowly
down the river. Patch, Walter, and Louis d'Auverne, who had
witnessed the execution, were on the deck. The former, whose
agency had been so fatal to the queen, was pacing it in moody
silence. Vainly he argued with himself that he had but avenged
his friend and master by an act of justice. His own wrongs and
sufferings he thought not of. He felt, perhaps for the first time
in his life, dissatisfied with his conduct, and wished that he had
left the task of vengeance unto Him who has so solemnly declared
that it is His.

Walter, who read what was passing in the mind of his friend,
forbore to interrupt him ; he felt that there were moments when
the heart is fitted only for its own communions, when even the
voice of friendship falls distastefully on the ear, and consolation
appears like mockery. Louis d'Auverne, on the contrary, needed
consolation ; the momentary excitement which had induced him,
at the last hour, to defeat the projects of the Reformers with
respect to the escape of Anne, had passed away, and he trembled
like a child at the idea of encountering his friend Everil, whose
strong mind had subjugated his.

Yet it was to avenge my father," he murmured ; " and if a
weakness. Heaven will surely pardon it."

The voyage to Antwerp, from which they had now been absent
several months, occupied them nearly five days, for the Avind was
against them. Oh, with what eagerness did Walter contemplate
once more folding Mary in his arms ! and, as the stately towers of
the queen-like city rose in sight, his heart beat wilder and wilder
with anticipated happiness ; he dreamt not that, during his absence,

a serpent had entered the abode of peace, and that the infection of
its venom had already corrupted the source of his bliss — the life of
his young bride.

The jester and Louis could scarcely keep pace with him as he
threaded the crowded quays. A few minutes brought the impatient
lover to the house in the Grand Place, where he had left his
treasure under the trusty care of Sir Richard Everil, The heart of
the young husband sank within him as the servant — a faithful
Fleming whom he had engaged — opened the gate of the old-fashioned
mansion on his approach. There was not a smile upon
the honest creature's countenance, nor even a look of satisfaction
at his return.

What has happened ? " faltered Walter.

A tear fell from the eye of the domestic ; his heart was too full
to speak ; he could only point to the marble staircase which led to
the apartments. Our hero staggered rather than walked up the
steps, followed by Louis and the jester, and made his way to the
chamber of his wife.

Reduced almost to a shadow by suffering and sickness, upon a
low couch reclined the once graceful form of the heiress of
Cranfield. Shortly after the departure of her husband her appetite
had gradually failed her, and burning pains in the chest consumed
her ; every breath of air she drew seemed like a flame, or a stream
of burning oil poured on her exhausted lungs. The only nourishment
she could be prevailed upon to taste was fruit, which the
affectionate care of the Lady Inez constantly supplied her with.
Indeed, during the absence of Walter, the beautiful Spaniard had
scarcely ever been absent from her side ; and so attached had the
grateful invalid become, that she would take the orange or raisin
from her hands when she rejected them from all beside.

Could I but once more behold him," murmured the confiding
girl, speaking of her husband to the lovely fiend who was seated
by her side, " I could die happy then. Methinks," she added, " my
brow would not ache reclined upon his breast. I could brave
death if it found me in his arms."

The exhausted sufferer fixed her glassy eyes with so mournful
an expression of confidence and love on her supposed friend, that
even she, hardened as she was in a career of crime, felt a passing
pang. Mary observed the changing colour of her cheek, and
deeming it the unspoken pledge of sympathy for her sad fate,
repaid her for it with a sister's kiss, which the fiend returned.
Strange to say, it left no blister on her victim's cheek.

"Try, dearest," she whispered, soothingly, at the same time
pressing upon the invalid the half of a pomegranate — the native,
like herself, of sunny Spain, where treachery is veiled beneath
smiles, and poison imparted by a kiss — " it will moisten your parched
lips, and cool the burning pain you speak of."

Just as Mary was about to place the treacherous gift to her lips,
the sound of a hasty step was heard upon the stairs. With a
strength which surprised herself, she started from her recumbent
position. She knew the tread — the instinct of affection told her
whose was the impatient foot. With a scream of joy, she rushed
across the room as Walter entered it, and sank into his arms. Fora
long time she remained insensible to the tears which fell upon
her brow, or the warm kisses on her burning cheek.

Patch, who had followed his friend, observed that on their
entrance the governor's wife turned deadly pale, and dropped the
pomegranate in her agitation and surprise. He made no remark,
but quietly stooped for it and conveyed it to his doublet before
she recovered from the confusion into which their arrival had
thrown her, or, indeed, before anyone had observed the action.

It is impossible to describe the grief and despair of Walter as he
hung over the emaciated form of his idolised wife. His agony
was too deep for words ; he could only look upon her, press her to
his heart, and reproach himself that even for a moment he had
wandered from her side. At each fresh burst of passionate sorrow
the now comparatively happy Mary would reply to him " that all
was well, that death had lost its terrors, since she encountered it
in his embrace."

Angel ! " sobbed the husband, with a burst of love and agony ;
death shall not divide us : the same blow kills us both."

The sensitive feelings of the governor's lady were so excited by
the sorrows of the youthful pair that she was compelled to return
to her palace. She made her adieu with her hypocritical face
bathed in tears, and uttering vows for the speedy restoration of her
sweet friend. The jester followed her with a cold, observant eye,
and shortly afterwards left the house. The illness of the Lady
Mary was too sudden and too rapid in its fearful progress to bethe
result of natural causes. Of that Patch felt convinced, and he
determined to consult an old friar of the Dominican convent,
renowned for his skill in chemistry, a Father Rimeriez, a native of
Spain, but whose life had been passed in exploring the antiquities
and learning of the East.

Patch related the object of his visit, described the altered
appearance of the Lady Mary, her glassy eyes, attenuated form, and
pale transparent complexion ; but without, at the same time,
uttering a word of his suspicions.

How long," demanded Rimeriez, " is it since her husband left
her in health ? "

About four months," replied his visitor.

Poisoned ! " said the priest.

Such was the jester's own opinion. Without a word, he drew
from his pocket the piece of pomegranate, and placed it in the
chemist's hand.

The man of science perfectly understood its meaning. Placing
it on a marble slab, he carefully divided it into four pieces, one of
which he dropped into a glass filled with spirits of wine, and kept
adding portions of various liquids ; but still no visible change was
produced : the contents retained their colour.

It is by no vegetable poison," he exclaimed, " or I should have
discovered it. Umph ! we have to do with no common bungler
in the trade of death."

A different course of operation was tried, but without success.
The contents of the test-tube remained unchanged.

Nor by mineral poison either," murmured the operator, slightly
vexed at the skill which defied even his experienced eye to detect
it. Suddenly recollecting himself, he placed the apparatus on the
table, and opening a cabinet, drew from it a manuscript written in
Eastern characters upon vellum, and for nearly an hour remained
poring over the contents, Patch watching him all the while with
curious eye ; for the old man's countenance was a study, now
flashing with intelligence when he had obtained, as he thought,
some clue ; now puzzled and embarrassed when the thread escaped
him. With a quiet smile of satisfaction he closed the page a^ last,
and returned it to its resting-place.

Have you succeeded ? " demanded his visitor.

The old man nodded, as much as to say, Be patient — we shall
see. Taking up one of the remaining pieces of the pomegranate,
he placed it upon a plate of hardened metal, and brought a couple
of wires which hung from a coil in the ceiling in contact with it.

Going into a closet adjoining his cell, the Avorthy monk set some
machine in motion, for Patch could distinctly hear the revolutions
of a wheel. With the interest and almost the affection of a father
hanging over a sick child, the man of science watched the result.
Suddenly a succession of brilliant flashes, so intense that the eye
could scarcely support them, parted from the pomegranate, and the
metal plate Alas melted into a shapeless mass.

"Ah! I thought so!" exclaimed the monk, in a voice of
triumph — " poisoned by the powder of diamonds."

"Art sure ? " demanded the jester.

"Sure ! " repeated the monk, with a scornful smile.

"And is there no hope — no remedy to arrest the fatal poison in
its mad career — to recall the light to the exhausted eye — the blush
of health to the wan cheek and wasted form .? "

The old man shook his head doubtfully.

The poison," he observed, " was used chiefly in the East ; its
tests were known but to few ; even he, so virulent was the poison,
was not sure that he possessed an antidote ; but he would try — he
would try."

After various manipulations, he placed a small phial, filled with
a dark green liquid, in his bosom, and drawing his cowl over his

thin, parchment-like features, started to accompany his visitor to
the house of Sir Richard Everil, first carefully locking the door of
the chamber, which was at once his cell and laboratory. They
soon arrived there.

The Lady Mary was still upon the couch, her head resting on
her husband's breast, and her hand clasped in his, when Patch and
his companion entered the apartment. She could only welcome
her old friend with a smile. Upon the monk she gazed with an
air of resignation ; she thought he had been sent for to administer
the last offices of religion. A life pure as hers had been had not
much preparation to require, or many sins to confess ; her heaviest
crimes were but the weaknesses of a virtuous heart — such sins as
make angels smile when they record them.

You need not leave me," she murmured ; " I have no thought,
no action of my life, I would conceal from you."

This was whispered in Walter's ear, who turned with an
inquiring, piteous look towards his friend.

It is not a confessor I have brought with me," said Patch,
struggling to maintain his firmness, " but a physician, lady — one
whose skill gives hope."

Hope," said the sufferer, faintly ; " too late, too late — my last
hope has passed, and almost my last regret," she added, turning
her eyes with a look of undying love towards Walter, " since I
expire in my husband's arms."

Without uttering a word, the monk advanced and felt her pulse.
Through his long life women had been to him but as the zoophytes,
minerals, polypi, or any other production of nature which came
within his way — things to be examined, classed, and forgotten ;
but the sweetness and patience of Mary amidst the fearful agonies
which he knew she must endure interested him ; and he resolved,
if human skill could avail, that the grave should be disappointed
of its prey.

Motioning to Patch to reach him a silver goblet from the manchet
table, he filled it with the mixture he had so carefully compounded,
and offered it to his patient to drink ; she would have refused, but
the imploring look @f Walter, who clung to it as his last hope, and
the tearful eye of the jester, restrained her. For their sakes she
determined to endure the agony of another draught, for it must be
observed that the only' moisture which for weeks had passed her
burning lips had been the fruit with which the perfidious Inez presented
her : liquid was, in any shape, like a draught of molten lead.

No sooner had she swallowed the contents of the goblet than
the change in her appearance became terrific ; her hair bristled
with the agony, which caused the cold, damp perspiration to stream
at every pore, and her chest heaved as though the swelling heart
would burst its marble prison. So intense were the pains and
throbbing, that Walter at one time thought her strained eye-balls

would have burst from their burning sockets. Unable to endure
their horrible expression, he covered them with his hand, and
sobbed like a child as he wiped the blood-tinged froth from her
quivering lips.

The monk, who witnessed the effect of his potion regardless of
her sufferings, rubbed his hands in quiet satisfaction. He knew
that there was hope.

'^ God ! " said Walter, "she is dying ! "

Nonsense," said the man of science ; " she is too strong to die
yet. See how bravely she bears up against the spasm. I knew it
would succeed ; I knew it must succeed."

At this instant, with a shriek of pain which no resolution could
suppress, the object of his solicitude sank upon the couch, to all
appearance senseless ; her husband thought that she was dead, but
the friendly monk once nitre reassured him.

In a few moments you will perceive her returning breath,"
exclaimed the man of science, " but faint, as if exhaling from the
lungs of a new-born child. Watch her as men watch the thing
they love, the hope they live for. If in three hours the spasm
does not return she is saved."

Saved ! " iterated Walter, scarcely daring to trust his ears with
the blest assurance.

Saved," repeated the monk, gravely ; " the agonies you have
witnessed were occasioned by the solution of the poison which,
like a thousand serpents' fangs, was preying upon her frame."

Poison ! " shrieked the astonished husband. "Breathes there a
wretch whose malice could engender such a monstrous crime ?
Name the fiend, that I may avenge humanity's insulted form, and
tread the monster's heart out ! Poison ! " he added, wildly ; " who
could have envied bliss like ours, or sought to change it to such
dark despair as reason shrinks to contemplate ? "

Leave that to me," said the jester, sternly. " I am the Lady
Mary's best avengers''

He kept his word.

CHAPTER XXI.

At the time predicted by the Dominican, the heiress awoke from
her deep slumber. The burning fever which for so many weeks
had wasted her young life was extinct within her veins, and the
keen pangs of the heaving lungs, so long irritated by the particles
of the diamond poison, subdued. No kneeling votary, breathless
with awe, trembling with hope, ever awaited the reply of the
Delphic oracle of old with deeper faith, or more intense agony,
than Walter did the decision of the priest, who, with his finger
upon the fluttering pulse of his newly-awakened patient, Alas
seated by the couch. The sufferer's eyes were fixed upon her
husband's ; in their expressive tenderness she found a balm more
precious than even the leech's healing draught. Patch stood gazing
on the scene in silence. The anxious expression of the old monk's
face gradually relaxed into a smile as he became more and more
assured that his skill had triumphed. That smile was to the young
husband's heart like the first beam of Paradise. Mary caught its
radiant reflection from his care-worn countenance, and answered
by an affectionate glance.

"Speak, father," exclaimed the young man, eagerly; "have I
aright interpreted thy smile ? — do I awake from my dark, hopeless
dream of sad despair to hail the promise of a glorious dawn, or is
it but a hope which cheats me with a moment's bliss to plunge me
deeper in my misery ? "

It is no dream," replied the benevolent Dominican, " but a
reality as truthful as thy love. The hour I feared has passed, and
left the victim of the foulest treachery which ever dwelt in human
form weak and exhausted with the struggle, but saved — the poison
is extinct."

"Walter's first impulse was to cast himself by the couch and
imprint a thousand kisses on the fair, thin hand extended to him.
He tried to speak, but the full heart denied him the power of
language : and bending his face in the coverlet, as if ashamed of
his weakness, the strong man wept ; but they were tears of joy.

There was a slight convulsive twitching about the features of
Patch, who stood a not uninterested spectator of the scene. Something
must have been the matter with his eyes, too, for they were
dimmed with tears. Following the example of the priest, he left
the young exiles by themselves, and hastened from the chamber.

Crossing the Grand Plats, the jester overtook his old acquaintance,
who was returning to his monastery and his books. A silent
pressure of his friend's hand, as he overtook him, was, to him,
sufficient recompense for the service he lead rendered, and changed
at once the current of his thoughts.

You think," demanded Patch, willing to be reassured, " that
the life of your charge is out of danger ? "

VOL. II. Y 2

For the present," replied the monk ; " but should the attempt
be made again, not even my art could save her. It is not in
nature to endure two such trials. She has bitter and subtle
enemies," he added, "to employ such desperate means of
vengeance ; they must be wealthy, too, for the preparation is. most
costly."

She is rich," observed his companion, with a bitter smile.

She ! who ? "

Her enemy."

Do you know her, then ? " demanded the Dominican.

Patch nodded in the affirmative, and related to the monk the
scene he had witnessed between the Lady Inez and Walter in the
wood previous to their leaving Antwerp — her burning words of
passion, her looks of love ; added to which, the morsel of pomegranate
which fell from her greedy hand on the unexpected arrival
of Walter and himself, which the monk's own experiments had
proved to have been the vehicle of the poison, left her guilt no
longer a matter of doubt.

I know the lady of old," exclaimed the priest ; " it is not the
first time she has crossed my path, but it shall be the last. Mercy
with some degenerates to weakness, and even pity may become a
crime. She must be punished."

She shall," quietly observed his companion.

By whom ? "

By me."

Better reserve her fate to one whose justice is as terrible as his
power is undisputed — the emperor."

'• He loves the husband too well to shame the wife," replied Patch.

You do not know him," replied the Dominican. " Charles
prides himself more upon the strict execution of justice in his
dominions than even their wide extent or boundless wealth. He
has ever entertained a pious horror of the poisoner's craft, for it is
well known that his unhappy mother was first deprived of reason,
then of life, by means of drugs and philters. Fear not he will do
you justice on the murderess."

And spare the husband's honour ? " demanded the jester,

I can venture to answer even for that, if you are ruled by me ;
but the first step must be to discover her accomplice,"

That is already done. You know the German, Hermes the
chemist, who lives in the corner of the Alt Mart ? "

His companion nodded that he did so.

He is also a dealer in gold and gems, philters and charms, I
hr.7e discovered, by sure means, that a lady, deeply veiled, has
several nights visited him, leaving her servants at the door — that,
after long conference, they have parted — nay, more, that he hath
obtained of her a ruby ring, a jewel of inestimable value, which I
had noticed on her hand,"

'Tis well," said the monk ; " come with me."

Where — to the German's ? "

No — to the emperor."

Charles V. had as much of the monk as the monarch in his
character ; his very morality was ascetic. He prided himself on
the strict administration of justice, and felt a secret delight in
directing its blows as from a cloud unseen.

On reaching the cloister of the Dominicans, Patch and his companion
found the emperor seated in the same cell where he and
Walter had been introduced to him previous to their expedition to
Kimbolton.

So," exclaimed Charles, in a hoarse voice, as soon as he beheld
him, " you have returned at last to claim the recompense no doubt
due for your faithful service ? "

Senhor," replied the jester, " such actions find their best reward
in the hearts of those who achieve them,"

Though disguised as a monk, Charles saw that he was recognised.

It was but half-performed," at last muttered the monarch, with
a dissatisfied air, for to him the possession of Mary's person had
been of far greater moment than the mere gratification of the
maternal feelings of his dying relative. " You have braved the
emperor's anger in baffling his minister."

There is something yet more terrible than even the imperial
Charles's anger."

And what may that be ? " demanded the questioner, haughtily.

His contempt," coolly answered Patch.

The frown upon the brow of Charles relaxed.

We are English," added the speaker, " both Walter and myself.
Our first duties are to God and our country ; let the emperor ask
his own princely heart how we should have performed them had
we consented to steal the Princess Mary from her father ; his
answer will acquit me."

Thou art right," replied the monarch, kindly, for he felt secretly
gratified with the compliment, "and I will so represent your
conduct to his majesty that you shall not suffer in his judgment.
To-morrow he makes his public entrance into Antwerp. See that
you and your countryman present yourselves. You will there
find if princes have faithless memories or no."

The jester bowed low at the command.

The usually placid brow of Charles became threatening as a
thunder-cloud while his visitors related to him the attempt made
upon the life of the exiled heiress of Cranfield, her fearful agonies,
and the fiend-like artifice by which they had been caused ; he felt
that he was doubly called upon to vindicate the majesty of justice
first as a monarch, whose protection had been violated in the
injury offered to his guest, and, secondly, as a knight sworn to
protect the helpless and defenceless.

And who," he demanded, when his visitors had concluded
their narration, '- composed the hellish poison ? "

Hermes, the chemist of Prague," replied the Dominican,
whose pi-actions caused him to fly from Paris."

The same who aided Louise of Savoy in her attempt upon the
life of the Constable Bourbon ? "

The same," replied the monk.

"The motive," continued Charles, "of the fair devil who
employed him ? "

Jealousy ; a wanton's love for Walter."

Which he no doubt returned," observed the emperor, drily ;
"for such women as the Lady Inez seldom sue in vain. Oh,
woman ! woman ! " he added, " will the Serpent's lessons never
be rooted from thy heart ? "

The jester's vindication of his friend was too complete to leave
a doubt upon the royal mind.

Charles sounded a small silver bell upon the table beside him,
and the captain of his guard, a tall, stern, soldier-like personage,
whose jet-black plumes brushed against the doorway of the humble
cell as he crossed its threshold, stood before him, and seemed like
an automaton waiting his commands.

Bring hither the chemist Hermes within the hour, quietly and
without observation. You understand ? "

The officer slightly inclined his head in token of obedience.

The Dominican approached the speaker, and whispered something
respectfully into his ear.

And see," added the prince, " that he removes nothing from
his person, not even a kerchief from his pouch, or a ring from his
hand. Away ! "

The captain of the guard made a military salute, and disappeared
without offering a word.

Hermes the chemist was a man of no ordinary skill in the
science which he disgraced by prostituting it to the vilest purposes.
Although he had long passed the hot summer of licentious
manhood, his passions were untamed, and he scrupled at no means
to insure their gratification. The voluptuous beauty of the
governor's wife had long excited his desire ; and when she applied
to him for a subtile poison, as a means of removing the innocent
object of her hatred — the only bar, as she imagined, between her
and Walter's love — the subtle German had exacted a ruby of
matchless beauty (one which the emperor himself had presented
to her upon her wedding-day), as the price of his services. Vainly
she proffered gold enough to glut even his avarice ; he was inexorable.


The evil passions of her heart at last prevailed, and the gem was
given as the price of life.

At the very moment the jester and the Dominican were relating

the history of her crimes to the emperor, she was closeted with her
confederate.

Is this thy boasted science ? " she scornfully exclaimed, as soon
as the chemist, who had been summoned to attend her at the
governor's palace, appeared before her ; " are these thy promises ?
My rival has recovered."

Impossible ! " replied her visitor, fixing a bold glance of
admiration upon her person ; " there is no medicament in nature,
no secret in art, to counteract the slow but certain action of the
poison. 'Tis but the pause which precedes the last sigh of
exhausted life."

Would I could think so ! " murmured the fair fiend ; '• but I
am well assured that the Dominican priest, Father Xavier, who
attended her, pronounced her cured."

Father Xavier ! " repeated Hermes in a voice of terror ; " what
devil brings him to Antwerp .? "

You know him .? " demanded Inez.

The German bowed his head in token that he did so.

Is he very skilful ? "

Very," muttered the chemist in a tone of spite, which showed
that his confidence, although he did not choose to avow it, was
somewhat shaken ; " he hath many curious secrets obtained in
Araby, that land of perfume and of wisdom ; but even his skill
must fail him here. Impossible, lady," he added ; "I tell you it is
impossible."

The confident tone in which the speaker declared his conviction
of the efficacy of his poison in some degree reassured his depraved
employer, who now adverted to the .real object of her interview
with him — the obtaining back the fatal ring which in the headlong
passion of jealousy and hate she had so imprudently parted with.
Going to a cabinet which stood in a recess of the chamber, she took
from it a curious casket of inlaid Milan steel, and, touching a secret
spring, poured its rich contents upon a table before the astonished
German.

Diamonds, which might have formed the zone of Venus,
were mixed with sapphires whose deep blue rivalled the colour of
her eyes, and ruby gems, less brilliant only than the Paphian
goddess's lips, were scattered in glorious confusion before him.
Raising his eyes, he fixed them upon the beautiful being who thus
tempted him, as if to inquire her meaning.

Take thy choice of these," she whispered ; " nay, take them all,
but give me back my ring."

Hermes was rarely tempted ; his avarice was strong, but lust at
last prevailed. He knew that the emperor was expected, that his
intended victim, at any price, must repossess her ring — and he
refused.

And what canst thou hope for from its possession ? " demanded

Inez, glaring on him like a baffled tigress ; " wealth ? — I have
proffered it,"

Love," answered the poisoner boldly.

The stately creature drew herself up at the word. A laugh, not
loud, but deep — one which had no note of mirth — broke from her
quivering lips, as she repeated, in an accent of cold contempt, his
declaration :

Love ! and thee ! "

Dost thou scorn me, lady ? "

Scorn ! " repeated Inez ; " scorn is too weak to express my
loathing of thine insolence. Love, and thee ! Sooner would I
meet the embrace of the fierce tiger or the rattlesnake — make
Death my bridegroom and the grave my couch — ere sink to such
pollution as a thought of thee ! "

Charles will expect to see his gift," coolly answered her
visitor.

■ "And he shall see it," as coolly retorted the beautiful fiend,
rapidly revolving in her mind the means to accomplish her purpose.
" Thou hast baffled many, but thou escapes not me. Hide
thee in the deepest recess of the covered earth, my vengeance
shall find the means to reach thee. Fool, without judgment or
remorse, thou hast studied much, art skilled in many lords ; but
there is still one page closed to thy wondrous knowledge — the page
of woman's heart. Begone ! "

Yet thou canst love," observed the man of science, awed by her
manner, but too much fascinated to tear himself away.

A blush suffused the face and neck of Inez as she replied to him :

That I can love, let my degradation witness — my crime, which
hath reduced me to so vile a level a slave dares lift his eyes to me.
Begone," she added, passionately, " lest I call those whose wrath
will v^'ash out this insult in thy blood, give thy craven heart to
feed the carrion kite, thy limbs to blister in the sun."

She laid her hand upon the golden cord which communicated
with a bell in the ante-chamber, and rang so violent a peal, that in
an instant the apartment was filled with pages and waiting women.
The countenance of the German became still paler as they entered.

You have my answer," continued the speaker, haughtily. " I
have no time to waste further words with thee."

Should your resolution change," said the poisoner, bowing in
mock humility, " you have but to send to me. For three days,
lady, the gem shall remain at your disposal."

I will send to thee,'''' replied Inez, with a glance of concentrated
hate. " Fear not," she added, suppressing with difficulty a low
hissing laugh, " but thou shalt hear from me soon — every soon."

Hermes, inclining once mc re to the ground, quitted the apartment
of the governor's lady, who, after commanding one of her
attendants to gather up the scattered jewels and restore them to

their casket, quitted the apartment, leaving the wondering pages
and waiting-women to speculate upon the scene they had witnessed.

'•■ She must be mine," murmured the chemist, as he retraced his
steps towards his gloomy mansion in the Alt Mart ; " she is in the
toils, and, struggle as she will, cannot escape me. How wrath
becomes her ! — how her wondrous beauties rise and fall, like the
wind-beaten sea from whose white foam Venus, they tell us,
sprang. 'Tis worth a life of study and privation," he added, " the
proud world's scorn, and superstition's rage, to clasp so fair a prize
at last. Part with thee ! " he continued, drawing the ruby signet
from his breast, where he had concealed it during his interview
with Inez, and placing it timon his finger, " part with thee, lodestone
of my happiness — the pilot to my wishes — not for Peru's richest
mine ! "

Excited by the anticipation of a triumph he was never destined
to achieve. Hermes entered his house, left in the care of a dumb
boy whom he had purchased from the Moors, and whose intelligence
could only be equalled by his fidelity. As soon as he beheld his
master, he fixed upon him a glance which at once conveyed to him
an intimation that there was danger.

Where ? " demanded the German.

A similar look directed his attention to a distant corner of the
shop ; as he turned he felt an iron hand upon his shoulder — it was
the captain of the guard.

Follow me ! " exclaimed the taciturn messenger.

'• Follow you ! " repeated the chemist, who began to feel alarmed;
'• where ? "'

You will see."

'• I will not follow you," replied Hermes, gathering courage ; " I
am in Antwerp, protected by the laws of our good emperor ; I pay
the city dues, and, as a burgher, cannot be arrested without an
order from the governor."

•' Yes. you can."

'• By whose ? "'

"• His master's."

The speaker drew the mailed glove from his hand, and displayed
upon his finger a broad signet of gold, graved with the imperial
arms. It was the badge of his authority. At sight of it every
officer, civil and military, either in Spain, Germany, or the Netherlands,
was bound to render him obedience and assistance. Its
production would open the long-barred prison-door, or close it upon
the culprit for ever.

The prisoner timed deadly pale as he beheld it ; he knew into
whose hand he had fallen.

'' Permit me," he faltered, " at least to change my garments."

"No."

To replenish my purse with gold ? " continued the wretch,

significantly, trusting by this hint to bribe the messenger, but
whose fidelity had long been proved to be beyond temptation.

You will need no gold where you are going."

At least," he added, " to leave this ring, which is not mine, for
the noble dame who, in an hour, will send for it. Hafiz knows to
whom, and on what conditions, to deliver it."

Not a hair from thy head," he whispered, " nor a word more
from thy lips, shalt thou leave behind thee. Attempt to speak
again, and I dash my gauntlet in thy face ; resist, I call those who
will drag thee like a captured wolf through the streets of Antwerp.
Accompany me to the Dominican convent," he added, " there my
task is ended, and thine, perchance, begins. Remember, eyes thou
greatest not of will follow us. Escape is hopeless — resistance
madness. Submit," he added, " and, if thou art wise, submit in
silence."

This was perhaps the longest speech the speaker had ever been
known to utter. Hermes, who read in the resolute eye of the
fierce soldier that force and expostulation would be alike useless,
sullenly submitted to his destiny, and accompanied his conductor,
who, on their way, walked gravely by his side. Many who
encountered them imagined that the skilful medicine had been
called upon to exert his art in some case of emergency by his
companion ; none dreamt that he was under an arrest. On his
road to the convent he pondered over and over in his mind the
cause of his misfortune, and came to the conclusion that the Lady
Inez was the secret mover in the affair ; and bitterly he cursed the
folly which had led him to brave her indignation.

At all events," he murmured, " the traitress shall not triumph.
If I perish, she shall perish too ! "

On entering the cell with the captain of the guard, Hermes saw
the emperor, whose person he instantly recognised, Patch, and his
old enemy the Dominican monk.

As soon as he saw in whose presence he stood, the confounded
criminal sank upon his knees.

Charles rang his silver bell, and four soldiers, accompanied by
an executioner, armed with a long German beheading sword,
entered the cell. The latter placed himself directly behind the
prisoner, whose blood ran cold as he approached him.

Hermes," said the monarch, in a voice as calm as if he were
giving directions to his minister, " it is our will to question thee
touching matters which concern a lady's honour and thy forfeit
life. We have the means," he added, "to detect the lie on falsehood's
trembling lip — the power as well as the will to punish it.
Now, then, to thy shrift, and remember that the first attempt to
deceive us will be the signal of thy death. We question not again
those who once deceive us, or threaten twice. Knowest thou the
lady of the governor ? "

I do," murmured the captive, in a voice broken by terror and
emotion ; " she has been my bane — my "

To my questions ! " interrupted Charles, in a stern voice ;
keep well to them ! Where got you that ruby ring upon your
finger ? "

From the Lady Inez," answered the chemist, after a pause.

For what service ? for what reason ? " repeated the monarch.

Still the culprit hesitated.

The speaker removed his glance from the kneeling man, and
fixed it upon the executioner,

For preparing a subtle poison," gasped Hermes, the cold perspiration
trickling down his features, for he felt that he was
pronouncing his own condemnation,

Of powdered diamonds, was it not ? "

It was," groaned the unhappy man ; " but, dread sire,
remember my temptation. The victim, I hear, has escaped the
fatal draught. No life has yet been sacrificed. Be merciful, as
you are great."

No victim has yet been sacrificed'' said Charles, coolly ; " the
sacrifice is yet to come. Secure the ring," he added, nodding to
the captain of the guard, who drew it from the prisoner's finger,
and kneeling, offered it to his imperial master, who motioned to
the Dominican to receive it.

Take it, holy father ; it would pollute our hands to receive it
from a criminal. It must be cleansed by Holy Church ere we again
can touch it."

The priest crossed himself as he received it from the captain's
hand.

Remove your prisoner," added Charles,

Mercy ! " shrieked the despairing wretch ; " mercy, mighty
emperor ! Banish me from Europe — confine me in a dungeon —
let me drag out in darkness and in chains a wretched, lone
existence — toil in the mines ; but let me live, if only to repent."

A wave of the hand was the only reply vouchsafed, and the
criminal, like to some crushed reptile, writhing in agony and
terror, was dragged from his relentless judge's presence,

Charles, Patch, and the Dominican alone remained within the
cell. For awhile the monarch remained silently revolving in his
mind how to spare the honour of his servant and friend Don Dean
de Castro, and yet execute the terrible judgment he had resolved
upon. In a few moments his resolution was taken,

Let what has passed remain as a secret bi-bathed in the confessional
— a thing whispered to God and your own hearts alone.
Englishman, thou shalt have justice as fearful as the wrong to thy
fair countrywoman has been great. Seek not to know how or
when. My word is pledged ; it shall be kept as sacredly as the
honour of my crown — the responsibility of my high office. Priest,"

he added, " cleanse me yon gem from the pollution of the felon's
touch ; we have a use for it."

The monk advanced to the table, upon which he first placed a
basin of water, and then cast salt, which he took from the buffet
where the monarch's simple repast had been served, into it,
muttering the usual exorcism. As soon as the water was consecrated,
he dropped the ring into it, and pronounced it purified.

'Tis well," said the emperor, placing the sparkling ruby on his
finger ; " tomorrow, at the palace of the governor, we shall meet
again. Summon a chapter of the Holy Office, father ; let them
assemble at midnight ; there we will make known our purpose,
and the means for its fulfilment."

This was understood to be the signal for them to withdraw, and
the jester and his friend left the gloomy prince once more to his
reflections.

Loudly pealed the bells from the hundred towers of Antwerp
when, on the following morning, Charles V., attended by a brilliant
retinue, made his public entry within its ancient walls.

Every balcony in the city of palaces was filled with noble dames
pr the fair wives and daughters of the merchant princes, who
rivalled them in magnificence as well as beauty. The monarch
gravely bowed his head to the plaudits of the people, which in the
present instance were unboiight and sincere.

On reaching the government louise, where Don Juan de Castro
was standing bareheaded to receive his sovereign, a shower of
bouquets fell from the balcony as the cortege stopped. The
emperor looked up ; but no smile passed over his saturnine
countenance as he recognised the fair hand which threw them.
The heart of the Lady Inez, who, surrounded by a bevy of dames,
was seated there, radiant in smiles and beauty, sank within her ;
and the jester, who, from an opposite window, was an observer of
the scene, whispered to himself :

Charles will keep his promise ; she is already judged."

It cannot be in nobler hands," exclaimed the emperor, in a tone
of unusual kindness, as the governor offered On his knee the golden
baton of his high office to his august master. " Keep it, Don Juan
de Castro ; I cannot trust it better than to your loyalty and faith."

Descending from his richly-caparisoned steed, the speaker,
preceded by his governor, and followed by the nobles who had
figured in the procession, mounted the marble stairs which led to
the tapestried hall, where Inez and the ladies of Antwerp were
waiting to be presented to him, and whom the stately etiquette of
the age allowed to remain standing, whilst he seated himself at the
banquet, where he was served by the magistrates in their robes of
office, and the governor, in solitary state, alone.

The feast, which was a mere matter of ceremony, was soon
concluded, and the solitary guest at the groaning board, rising from

hie chair of state, bowed to the assembled circle, and withdrew to
his private apartments, leaving the repast to the magistrates and
nobles, who, with the governor at the head, immediately occupied
the table. Then, and not till then, did the banquet really commence.
This, in the parlance of the day, was termed by the emperor dining
with the city of Antwerp.

The Duchess de Medina held the golden basin in which the
monarch dipped his fingers, whilst Inez, in virtue of her husband's
office, presented him with the embroidered napkin to dry his
hands.

'' Service from such fair dames must not pass unrequited,"
exclaimed Charles, and drawing a sapphire and the fatal ruby
from his fingers, he presented the former to the duchess with a
smile ; the latter, with a cold stern air, to the guilty Inez, whose
agitation was so excessive that, despite her strong nerve and more
than woman's courage, she nearly fainted. Her confusion became
at last so remarkable, that the attendants thronged around her,
fearing she was ill.

Give her air," said the sovereign, coolly ; " the ceremony has
fatigued her."

In an instant she stood alone, trembling and confused, before
her judge.

Silence ! " whispered Charles, " for the honour of the name you
have disgraced — the child which calls you mother. Retire to your
chateau. Tou shall hear from me anon ! "

These last words struck upon her ear with fearful import. She
well knew what the speaker meant by hearing from him anon ;
with the same fearful words he had dismissed Calvin, his
secretary, to the block. With a deep murmur she retired from the
circle, and, under pretence of indisposition, gave orders for her
departure to the chateau, as the emperor had commanded.

The sudden illness of his wife was subsequently announced to
the governor, who, despite his anxiety, was chained for the rest of
the day, by the duties of his office, to the side of his master who
never perhaps displayed more kindness to his favourite than on that
fatal morning.

Just as the evening closed, an officer arrived with the intelligence
that the boat in which the guilty Inez was crossing the river, on
her way to the chateau, had been upset, and the lady of the
governor unfortunately drowned. Distracted with the intelligence,
Don Juan de Castro rushed from the assembly, and paced like a
madman the banks of the river, offering immense rewards for the
recovery of the body ; but all was useless. It was never found.

A few days after this mournful event, his sympathising master,
in order to remove him from the scene of his past happiness, sent
him on an embassy to Paris, where Francis I. then held his court.

About a fortnight after the departure of the governor, all Antwerp

was assembled in the great square to witness the execution of two
criminals, condemned, it was whispered, by the Holy Office to die
for sorcery and other crimes. There was evidently a degree of
mystery in the transaction ; no one knew their names, or when
they had been judged, their station in the world, or who had been
victims. At an early hour a body of Spanish troops were marched
into the open space, Avhere the pile already was erected, and a still
larger number lined the streets from and leading to the Dominican
convent, and through which the procession was to pass. All was
expectation, mystery and terror.

To the horror of the people, it was observed that one was a
woman. The features of both of the culprits were concealed
beneath an iron mask, and they were gagged as well as bound. A
herald advanced into the centre of the square and announced :

Hermes, a convicted poisoner and assassin, and an unknown
female, his accomplice, both of whom had confessed their crimes,
were about to die. By the mercy of the emperor the woman was
to be strangled first and burnt afterwards ; the ashes to be scattered
to the winds."

Pray for them," added the officer, as he finished his mournful
office ; " all good Christian people pray for the culprits whom the
justice of man is compelled to punish, but whom God may pardon ;
pray for the culprits and the Emperor Charles."

At the close of the above singular exordium, which was the form
invariably used, the executioner advanced to the pile, and casting
a silken noose round the neck of the female, gave one end of it to
his assistant, and both began to pull in an opposite direction. A
few convulsive movements followed — a drop or two of blood
trickled from beneath the mask, and all was over. The jester
sickened at the sight, and turned hastily away.

Fire the pile ! " exclaimed the officer, as soon as the first part
of the tragedy was finished.

In a few moments the wood, which had been piled to an unusual
height, caught the flame, which rose and fell like a living thing
around the dying and the dead. Pitch, oil, and other inflammable
materials were profusely cast upon the pile, which burnt so
fiercely, and emitted so much smoke, that even if the masks by
accident had fallen, it would have been impossible to have
recognised the features of the victims. Long even after the flames
were extinct, and nothing remained but a heap of smouldering
ashes, the guard with jealous vigilance forbade all approach. The
remains were carefully gathered up, and cast into the river.

That very day the souls of Inez and her accomplice stood before
a tribunal more terrible even than the emperor's — the judgment-seat
of God.

CHAPTER XXII.

The herald's pomp, the crown and pall,

Emblem that Death is lord of all.

And his rude grasp relentless flings

On crouching slaves and sceptred kings. — Creon.

After the fatal events described in the last chapter, Antwerp
became no residence for the exiles ; too many painful associations
were connected with it. The cry of blood w-as in the streets —
poison seemed to linger in the very air ; even the iron nerves of
our old friend Patch were shaken by the terrible justice of
Charles V. ; and he never passed the Grand Plats, where the
execution of the guilty Inez had taken place, without a shudder.
Her husband and the world firmly believed that the unfortunate
lady had been drowned by the upsetting of the boat on her way to
the chateau. The emperor, the Dominican, and the jester were
perhaps the only three persons who really knew her fate. As soon
as the Lady Mary was sufficiently recovered, a voyage to a more
genial climate was proposed, and Italy selected as the future place
of their abode. Patch, who had twice visited that classic land on
secret missions for his master Wolsey, became their guide, and a
few weeks saw them quietly settled on the banks of the golden
Arno, waiting, but not impatiently, for the hour when the 'death
of Henry would restore them to their native land.

It would be trenching too much on the province of the historian
to trace the progress of the blood-stained king, step by step, in his
career of crime ; still a slight synopsis may not be uninteresting to
our readers.

As wee before stated, the same week witnessed the execution of
Anne Boleyn and the marriage of Jane Seymour, which was
doomed, although in a different manner, to prove as unfortunate
as the preceding ones. Indeed, there seems to have been a fatality
about all of Henry's wives, as if at each succeeding union the angry
spirits of his outraged queens flitted by the altar and pronounced a
curse.

On the eighth of June, not a month after the death of Anne, a
new Parliament was summoned. The Chancellor, Lord Audley, in
addressing the House, stated that the king had two reasons for
commanding their attendance : first to settle an heir to the Crown,
in case he died without children lawfully begotten ; secondly, to
repeal the Act by which the succession was settled on the issue of
his late marriage. The compliant tools — for under Henry the
houses of legislature were little more — passed without the least
opposition the Acts as he required. Both the divorces where confirmed,
and Elizabeth declared illegitimate, as her sister Mary
previously had been. Nay, the Parliament even went so far as to
give the king, in the event of failure of legitimate issue, full power

to appoint a successor, either by letters patent or by will — a servility
"which proves how little understood were the true principles of
constitutional government in those days ; the form, however,
shadowed forth the substance.

The Act, which proves the extraordinary power that Henrj^
possessed over his Parliaments, was the means of pacifying the
mind of the emperor, since it was not impossible that under it his
niece, Mary, might still succeed to the Crown by an act of her
father's will ; and it probably induced that princess to conform
more readily to his pleasure than hitherto she had done, since
about this time she consented to sign an acknowledgment of the
illegitimacy of her mother's marriage.

Her sister, too, who was now placed upon a level with herself,
Alas no longer an object of envy • indeed, a certain degree of
affection seems to have been displayed, if not actually felt, by
Mary towards the infant daughter of Anne Boleyn, whom she
called in one of her letters a " toward darling,"

Elizabeth appears in her infancy to have been possessed of many
engaging qualities, which procured her friends even amongst the
interested panders upon royalty ; whilst the new queen treated
her with kindness and affection. Educated under the charge of
Lady Margaret Brian, the future queen remained at Hudson, where
she had been removed previous to the execution of her mother.
Upon that event a difficulty arose with regard to the management
of the household regulations of the young princess, and to the state
which it was suitable to keep about her. In a letter to Cromwell
from Lady Brian, she alludes to the alteration in the degree of her
young charge, of which she states he was informed only by report,
and complains that no mourning had been provided for Elizabeth
on her mother's account, — a neglect which proves that Henry was
as coarse-minded as he was heartless. The death of Anne was
not the only sacrifice to the tyrant's jealousy during the year ; for
Lord Thomas Howard, brother to the Duke of Norfolk, for having
married the Lady Margaret Douglas, daughter of the Queen of
Scotland, and niece to Henry, was committed to the Tower, where
he died — poisoned, some say — others, of a broken heart. The Lady
Margaret afterwards became the mother of the celebrated Darnley,
husband of Mary Queen of Scots.

Whilst cares and vicissitudes disturbed the domestic concerns of
Henry, the Reformation advanced with rapid strides throughout
the kingdom. Cromwell,, who had obtained an ascendency over
the mind of his master scarcely inferior to that which Wolsey once
possessed, proved a powerful supporter of the new doctrines. The
regal supremacy having already been acknowledged by the bishops,
who were seconded by the king, although some opposition had been
offered by the people, Henry at once determined to exercise that
authority with which his submissive Parliaments had invested him.

For this purpose he appointed Cromwell his vicegerent, or vicar-general,
an office little inferior in honour and power to that which
Wolsey, as legate, had formerly exercised. In this capacity his
representative was invested with entire authority in religious
affairs, and he was entitled not only to correct and visit all abuses,
but to superintend the conduct of bishops and archbishops, of
whom he took precedence in Convocation.

The important charge was placed in energetic but not in careful
hands. In the suppression of the monasteries, the only object of
the vicegerent and his commissioners seems to have been the
plunder of the establishments. They visited the churches, abbatial
houses, the cloisters ; the monuments precious to art, the pages in
which were writ the chronicles of the Saxon, Norman, and Mediaeval
ages, were ruthlessly destroyed. This Vandalism has and ever
must remain a reproach to the memory of Cromwell. Abuses
might have been corrected, false miracles exposed, without perverting
the charitable intentions of the founders of these establishments,
by giving the wealth destined for the poor, education, and
religion, to a rapacious set of courtiers, who, like a pack of hungry
curs in full cry, yelled after the spoil. The Reformation created,
by the wealth it gave, the most powerful aristocracy in Europe ;
but then by way of drawback, it necessitated the Poor-laws for the
starving and unfortunate, formerly entertained at the convents and
religious houses. On more than one occasion they were rendered
so desperate by the misery which the change occasioned that they
broke into open rebellion.

There is little doubt but that great abuses had crept into the
religious orders, and that the ease and luxury enjoyed in the great
convents was frequently a stronger inducement to a monastic life
than religious motives. The repasts of the monks were generally
prepared with a lavish hand, and resembled a modern banquet
much more than the meals of humble and self-denying devotees.
At the monastery of St. Allan's fifty-three farms, every one of
which was estimated at forty-six shillings per annum, were
devoted to the kitchen. Provisions were brought from London,
and nine carriers appointed to convey them to the abbey, which
also possessed a house in Yarmouth for the purpose of storing up
salt fish for Lent. The dinner Alas served upon plate, which was
carried up an ascent of fifteen steps to the abbot's table — the monks,
it is true, enduring a tantalising penance of making a pause and
singing a hymn at every fifth step. At Canterbury and Peterborough
the priors had usually repasts consisting of sixteen dishes ;
various kinds of strong liquors were used ; and claret, piment, and
mead regaled the jovial churchmen.

But in none of these establishments did greater luxury and
enjoyment prevail than in the great monastery of Furness, in
Lancashire, where the monks were of the order of St. Savigny^

VOL. II. z 2

under the rule of St. Benedict. They" lived like nobles round the
court of their abbot, who was a prince in his territory — a ness or
nose of land, as the Saxons termed it, which nature had singularly
protected on the north and south by dangerous quicksands, on the
west by St. George's Channel, and on the east by the fells of
Furness, which, until the thirteenth century, were entirely covered
with wood. No sheriffs were permitted to enter this privileged
spot — ^no tolls were collected within these hallowed precincts ;
nor was anyone permitted to molest the abbot or any of his tenants
under a penalty of ten pounds. Secured from all interference, and
emancipated from the censure and inspection of the public eye, the
monks of Furness had every means of indolence and ease. Their
forests abounded with the buck, the doe, the wild boar — once
common in England — and the legs, or large deer ; the convent was
also supplied with wheat from its own fields, which were celebrated
for their produce ; and the abbot was enabled to purchase such
luxuries as the domains did not produce, by the large revenue
arising from the iron mines in the county, of which he had the
sole direction and profit. Besides the possession of a breed of
hawks, these princely churchmen had free chase through Furness ;
and that border territory as frequently rang with the echoes of the
abbot's hounds as with those of the lay nobles. Besides this
privilege, the abbey possessed large paddocks, and an inclosure
called the " deer-park," which may still be traced near to the ruins
of the monastery. The building, situated in a deep, narrow vale,
of which it occupied the entire breadth, was surrounded by a stonewall,
which inclosed the abbey mills, its stews for receiving fish,
its kilns and ovens ; while the luxurious vale, stretching down
towards the south, was watered by rivulets, which spread beauty
and fertility around.

Although nothing more serious could be proved against the
monks than their luxury, the abbot waft terrified into the surrender
of his lands to the king. Most of them were annexed to the Crown.
Charles II. afterwards bestowed them upon the Duke of Albemarle,
through whom they finally reverted to the duchesses of Montague
and Manchester, co-heiresses of the Duke of Montague.

It is not the Reformation which we feel disposed to quarrel
with ; but the use which was made of the wealth wrung from the
indolent but charitable priests, to be bestowed upon the rapacious,
exacting nobles. Many of the monasteries were so well governed,
and the lives of their inmates proved to be so blameless, that even
the infamous commissioners, Layton and Dr. Lee, were compelled
to give unwilling testimony in their favour. At Bestrode, the
abbot is described as a right honest man, having about him only
religious persons. The nunnery of Cates, in Northamptonshire,
was proved to be in excellent order and rule, as was the priory of
Great Malvern, in Worcestershire, the superior of which, says

Latimer in a letter to Cromwell, " is old, f eedeth many, and that
daily." As may naturally be supposed, the breaking up of so many
establishments caused much confusion as well as distress. At
court it was a scramble for the plunder, — in the cities, weeping
and distress. Lord Audley obtained Christ Church, in Lydgate,
whose prior was always an alderman of London, and rode in the
City processions as such ; but when he offered the magnificent
church to any person who chose to be at the expense of demolishing
it and clearing away the stone, not an inhabitant could
be found to join in the act, and he was obliged to employ workmen
at an expense, when he demolished the steeple and priory, which
far exceeded the value of the materials.

We have dwelt a little too long, perhaps, upon this theme ; but it
was impossible, in a work pretending to an historical character, to
pass over so important a subject as the progress of the Reformation ;
and the picture of the life, government, and manners of so celebrated
a monastery as Furness can scarcely prove unacceptable — sit
shows what such establishments were,

When rosy monks and mitred priests
Ruled o'er the fertile vale."

This severe measure against the Church caused a serious rebellion
in the Northern counties, where the Pilgrims of Grace, under the
leadership of one Robert Aske, took possession of Pomfret, York,
and Hull, obliging the Archbishop of York and Lord Dace, who
commanded the castle in the former place, to surrender that
fortress and take the oath to the association. If at this time a
competent leader had appeared, Henry's reign and the progress of
the Reformation would have terminated together. The terms on
which the rebels finally laid down their arms were somewhat
exorbitant. They required that a Parliament should be held in the
North, and a court of justice established ; that no person north of
the Trent might be forced to attend the courts of Westminster ;
that the Princess Mary should be declared legitimate, the Pope
restored to his authority, the monks to their houses ; that Cromwell
and Audley should not be allowed to sit in the next Parliament ;
and that the commissioners Layton and Lee should be imprisoned
for bribery and extortion.

These articles induced Henry to keep his army still in the field,
and circumstances proved that the provision was a wise one, for a
second insurrection broke out the February after, in which eight
thousand insurgents were driven from Carlisle by the Duke of
Norfolk, who, after their defeat, executed seventy-four of their
leaders. Thus we see that the Reformation was not universally
received by Englishmen as a boon.

The day, or rather the moi-king, for it had but just struck one,
which was to make Henry VIII, the father of a son, at last arrived.
The queen was in labour ; and Cranmer, together with the chief

officers of state, were summoned, according to ancient usage, to be
present at the birth. The king, who impatiently expected the
event, was pacing, with hasty strides, the floor of the royal closet
at Hampton Court. The Duke of Norfolk, Sir John Russell, the
founder of the Bedford family, and the Marquis of Exeter, were
with him.

An Jane bring me a boy, my lords," exclaimed the anxious
monarch, at the same time rubbing his hands in pleasing anticipation,
" we will have a christening shall make the roof of Hampton
ring again. What day will this be ? "

The vigil of St. Edward," replied the duke.

If I am to have a son, I would not wish him born upon a better
day, or to bear a nobler name. What was the last report ? "

That her majesty was still in labour," said the marquis.

Would she were quick about it ! " observed the king, yawning,
for he had been up all night, and, like most stout persons, suffered
if deprived of his usual rest. At this moment a low knock was
heard at the door of the royal closet.

Come in," said Henry, sharply, for he was naturally excited
between fear and hope.

The queen's physician entered. Sir Anthony Browne was with
him. There was a serious expression upon the countenance of
both of them which augured evil news.

What mean these hang-dog looks ? " demanded the king in a
harsh, grating voice. " Umph ! " he added, " I can read them ;
another girl, I suppose. Was ever father doomed to be cursed as
I am ? "

Not so," replied the physician ; " but "

"But what? Speak out!"

The man of science, as well as his companion, glanced towards
the persons who were with the king, in a manner which seemed
to say that it would be impossible to explain themselves in their
presence. Henry understood the hint, and motioned them to
withdraw. As soon as they were alone, he drew the bolt upon
the door, and hastily approaching the physician, laid his hand
upon his arm, and gazing upon him with a peculiar expression of
countenance, whispered :

I understand you ; the difficulty you anticipated has arrived ? "

It has."

"And the child'" he demanded, with an agitation which
rendered him almost breathless.

Is a boy," gasped the physician, turning as pale as a maiden's
shroud as he pronounced the words.

Henry paced the chamber for a few minutes ; more than once
he essayed to speak, but the words trembled upon his cruel lips,
and a cold perspiration trickled down his already furrowed
forehead ; his mind was at last made up.

It is impossible, you say, that her majesty should prove the
living mother of a living child ? "

lu the present instance, sire, impossible,"

"When you return, let it be to announce the birth of the Prince
of Wales."

Whatever he might have felt, the cold tyrant pronounced the
order in a voice as clear and free as though the mother had never
been the object of his love. An hour after, it was announced to
him that his dearest wish was at last gratified — that he was the
father of a boy, but that the queen was dying.

It is singular that the precise day of the death of Jane Seymour
should have been so variously stated. Herbert fixes it on two days
after the birth of her son ; Burnet on the day after. The ceremonial
of her funeral in the Heralds' Office affirms that she died
twelve days after the prince was born. It appears from the
register of the " Garter," page 410, that the queen was in childbed
two days, and suffered exceedingly. It is certain, however, that
she lived long enough to receive Extreme Unction, and hear that
the 5'oung prince had undergone the rite of baptism ; for on the
day of his entrance into the world, in which he was destined to
act so conspicuous, although so brief, a part, the infant Alas solemnly
constituted a member of that church which at this period it is
impossible to know whether to designate as Catholic or Protestant.
The baptismal service was performed in the chapel of Hampton
Palace, Cranmer and the Duke of Norfolk acting as godfathers,
and the princess, or Lady Mary, as she was now called, standing as
godmother. The font, which was of silver, was guarded by Sir
John Russell, Sir Francis Brian, Sir Nicholas Carew, and Sir
Anthony Browne, in aprons, and with towels about their shoulders.
The earl of Wiltshire, father of the late queen, bore the taper of
virgin wax. Then came the Princess Elizabeth, holding the
chrism, and supported, on account of her tender age, in the arms
of Lords Molly and Beauchamp. The Marchioness of Exeter,
assisted by her husband and the Duke of Suffolk, carried the child.

As soon as the ceremony was performed, and the usual gifts
offered at the font, the unconscious infant was borne in state to the
apartment of the dying queen, to receive her last blessing ere she
expired.

unlike Anne Boleyn, who had been carelessly hurried to an
obscure grave, the body of Jane Seymour was conveyed with great
solemnity to Windsor, and there buried in the middle of the choir
of the castle church. At St. Paul's, and at every parish church in
London, masses were said, and dirges sung, after the manner of
the Catholic ritual. The king kept his Christmas at Greenwich, in
his mourning apparel, which neither he nor the Court changed till
after Candlemas Day.

The birth of a male heir to the throne was an event deeply

interesting both to prince and people. The estimation in which
the former was held by foreign Courts was greatly enhanced by
the security which this event gave to the continuance of his line ;
and the latter rejoiced that the evil of a disputed succession was
avoided : for there is little doubt but, had Henry died before the
birth of a son, the utmost perplexity with regard to the Crown
must have been, the consequence of his inconsistent proceedings.
To him, therefore, the birth of Edward was an event of such vast
importance that it justified, in his selfish nature, the death of his
amiable queen, Jane Seymour.

Henry's fourth marriage was with Anne of Clever, to whose
person he took a disgust on the very first interview. On the 11th
of September, 1539, she was received at Calais by the Earl of
Southampton, lord high admiral of England, and several members
of the royal household. The Flemish beauty at last reached the
shores of England, and was met by the Duke and Duchess of
Suffolk. The primate conducted her to Rochester, where the
Duke of Norfolk, together with the barons of the Exchequer, and
a great train of nobility and knights, were waiting to receive her.
Henrj^ who was at Greenwich, could no longer restrain his
curiosity ; he left the palace Avithout pomp. The first interview
with his bride must have been highly diverting to those who had
no anticipation of the serious consequences which resulted to his'
minister Cromwell from the disappointment. Sir Anthony Browne,
the husband of the Lady Elizabeth Fitzgerald, Surrey's "Geraldine,"
describes the king as overwhelmed at the sight of the unwieldy
consort they had chosen him. In the retirement of his chamber
he gave vent to bitter disappointment, declaring that they had
haltered him to a Flemish mare, and not a Christian princess.

From that hour the fate of Cromwell, who had concluded the
marriage, was sealed.

He overcame his repugnance, according to the above quoted
authority, sufficiently on the following morning to send her,
according to ancient custom, a marriage gift, which consisted of a
partlet furred with sables, and richly garnished with sable skins ;
a muffler furred, and a cap. The bearer was Sir Anthony Browne,
and the message was as cold and civil as possible.

The disgust of the king increasing, he determined to break his
marriage at all hazards ; and as he could not decently behead the
queen, he thought fit to divorce her. A Parliament was summoned,
Cromwell arrested, and committed to the Tower, upon a charge of
high treason, on which he was afterwards beheaded, and the
dissolution of the union pronounced by;the obsequious Legislature,
upon the ground that the king's internal consent had been wanting.
To do the fickle monarch justice, however, he behaved liberally
upon the occasion ; sufficient revenues were assigned for the
honourable maintenance of the princess, who received by letters

patent the title of Henry's adopted sister ; a poor compensation for
the loss of a crown.

Catherine Howard, the beautiful, the frail, the culpable Catherine
Howard, niece to the Duke of Norfolk, was next elevated to the
blood-stained throne. The lady, as cousin-german to Anne
Boleyn, was within the degrees of affinity to the king forbidden
by the canon law ; it was therefore found necessary to frame a
Bill, in which it was specified that no pretence of pre-contract or
degree of affinity, except those mentioned in the laws of God,
should be made use of to annul a marriage. This act involved the
proceedings of the king in the greatest absurdity, since it condemned
his proceedings both towards Katherine of Arragon and her
successor. The only lasting result of this law was the precedent
it gave for cousins-german to marry — a thing unheard of before,
unless by dispensation from the Pope.

The life of incontinence which the new-made queen had led,
both before and after her marriage, coming to the knowledge of
Cranmer, he revealed it to the king ; her paramour were arrested,
and she herself, together nth her confidante, the infamous Lady
Rochf ort, committed to close ward at Sion House, where, however,
she continued to be served with all the dignity of a queen. They
were both executed on Tower Hill.

Henry's last marriage was with Catherine Parr, who survived
him.

Influenced most probably by the disgust which the conduct of
Catherine Howard had excited, the king conceived a hatred
towards the family, and gave private orders for the arrest of the
Duke of Norfolk and his son, the gallant, incomparable Surrey,
who was condemned for having quartered the arms of Edda rd the
Confessor in his shield. What availed his'etoquenr'ol^ence, hW
high' renown, his poetic genius, and his knightly services ? An
obsequious jury found him guilty, and he was immediately
executed.

About this period the primate lost his most powerful friend,
Charles Brandon, Duke of Suffolk, whose wife, the queen dowager
of France, had long since disappeared from the' scene of life.
Henrj', who was sitting in council when the intelligence was
brought him, declared that during the whole course of their
friendship, his brother-in-law had never once whispered a word
to the disparagement of any person, and added, looking round the
circle of abashed nobles, " Which of you can say as much ? "

All were silent, and the king quitted them with a strong
expression of contempt.

Cranmer', deprived of this support, became the more exposed
to the cabals of the Court, who, with the chancellor at their head,
endeavoured to undermine his favour with the king, who, seeing
the point at which they aimed, feigned compliance, and desired

them to make inquiry into the prelate's conduct. Even his best
friends looked upon Cranmer as lost. He was obliged to stand
several hours at the door of the council chamber in the manner
so graphically described by Shakespeare, before he was called in ;
and when at last admitted, his enemies told him they had decided
on his committal to the Tower. The primate appealed to the king,
and, finding his remonstrance disregarded, to the terror and confusion
of the council, produced the royal signet, by virtue of which
he removed his cause from their unjust decision. The members,
who were compelled to convey the token to their master, were
severely reproved by him for their perfidy and jealousy.

But if Henry shielded his friends, he proved relentless to all
beside. Anne Ascue, a young and beautiful creature, who had
great interest with the ladies of the Court, and who was an especial
favourite with Catherine Parr, was committed to the Tower. The
morning before her examination upon a charge of denial of the
king's supremacy and heresy. Lord Seymour, the maternal uncle
of the Prince of Wales, who had long been calculating the approaching
death of the monarch, paid a visit to that regal den of
infamy and cruelty. He had learned from Gardiner that the queen
had incautiously given the enthusiast a ring — a gift from her
capricious husband. His object was to possess himself of it, and
by that means obtain an influence over the fate of his sister-in-law
useful for his future purposes Sir William Kingston, who was
his friend, assisted him in the object of his pursuit ; for, like his
wife, the governor of the Tower was attached to the Reformed
religion, whose perfect development the still Catholic dogmas of
Henry were opposed to.

The prisoner, a fair, delicate-looking girl in the first blush of
womanhood, entered the chamber where the intriguing noble
awaited her. There was an air of patient courage in her pale
countenance which martyrs might have envied, and her blue eyes
were lit With the pure light of faith. Modestly she inclined her
head before the chair where Seymour had thrown himself, awaiting
his commands.

This is a sorry place," he observed, *' for one so young and
fair."

It is the place," replied the maid, " to which Heaven hath
called me. A palace or a grave, while I perform my Master's
service, are to me alike."

Know you," continued the courtier, " the fearful nature of the
charge against you ? — that it affects your life ? "

My life is in His hands who holds the breath of kings ; if it
be His will that I bear witness to His truth, His servant will be
ready."

*' You court death, then ? "

No : but I do not fear it'*

Hast thou been questioned," demanded Seymour, in a whisper,
touching thy knowledge of the queen ? "

Anne Ascue remained silent.

Thou art a courageous girl," he continued, " worthy of
Catherine's confidence."

Still no answer.

Hear me," said the speaker, who saw that he must obtain her
confidence, "for every moment is fraught with danger to her
whom in these walls I dare not name. Two of her predecessors
have left their names written in blood upon their fatal threshold :
it depends on thee whether a third be added to the list."

On me ! " repeated the prisoner with surprise.

Ay. It is known she we speak of gave thee a token of her
favour — a balls ruby ; and unless the fatal gift be produced tomorrow,
when Henry shall demand it, the executioner of Calais
will have another journey and another victim."

Supposing," said Anne, "that what you assert were true, how
could a simple gift affect ? "

How ? " repeated the ambitious Seymour ; " men call thee wise
as fair ! Ask thy own heart whom in his anger or his lust did
Henry ever spare ? His favourite Wolsey, his consort Katherine,
the joyous Boleyn, or my gentle sister, sacrificed — brutally sacrificed
to his ambition or caprice ; but perhaps," he added, " thou wilt
find a joy in falling not alone."

The prisoner, without deigning a word in reply to the accusation,
advanced nearer to the seat, and fixed her penetrating glance upon
him.

Art thou," she demanded, " the brother of the pious queen,
Jane Seymour ? "

Dost doubt it ? "

No, no," she muttered to herself, after a pause ; " thou hast
spoken truth ; and yet I fear me for no godly purpose, for I can
read ambition in thine eye, pride in thy heart. Strange," she added,
that two such natures should be so near akin ! "

Seymour had heard of the particular powers of reading the
thoughts of all who came in contact with her, as well as the
supposed gift of prophecy which, according to popular belief, the
prisoner possessed, and he asked her smilingly if she still hesitated
to trust him.

Anne fell upon her knees, and remained for a few minutes
absorbed in prayer. So fervent were her devotions, that while
they lasted she seemed insensible to all around. Her visitor
became at last impatient.

Thou hast sought a pledge," she answered, " and it shall not be
denied thee, since I feel assured that it will work the safety of the
ros-al hand which gave it ; but woe ! woe ! " she added, " to the
messenger ! "

What mean you ? "

If," continued the maid, " thou dost, without one second
purpose, one unworthy dream of future profit, seek to restore the
token to my mistress, take it free j."

Seymour extended his eager hand.

But if," added the speaker, " one earthly thought, one base
desire, doth linger in thy heart, it leads thee to the scaffold."

The courtier smiled at the prediction, for he was no believer in
her supposed gift of prophecy, although in the present instance it
was singularly fulfilled ; for the return of the fatal pledge so
wrought upon the gratitude of the soon-widowed queen that she
bestowed on him her hand almost immediately after her husband's
death ; the ambitious hopes nourished by which alliance ultimately
led him to the block. He thought of Anne Ascue as he mounted
the fatal steps.

Take it," said Anne, drawing the sparkling jewel from her
bosom, and placing it in his extended hand ; " thou hast received
thy warning — and thv doom,"

Doubt not my fidelity."

I doubt it not," said the enthusiast, " for it is thy interest.
Farewell," she added ; " on earth my task and sufferings will soon
be over ; thine," she continued, with a cold smile, " are yet to
come."

Catherine Parr, in her zeal for the Reformation, frequently
ventured to converse, and even to dispute, with Henry upon points
of faith. At such times, her natural talents and strong sense would
often embarrass and irritate the fretful temper of her capricious
husband, who had on several occasions complained to the Chancellor
Wriothesley and Gardiner, both of whom were her mortal
enemies.

These so inflamed his anger and his pride, by representing
how glorious it would be to show to the world that no rank or
station was independent of the law, that Henrj' consented to
articles of impeachment being drawn up against her, the circumstance
which finally decided him being the assurance which the
chancellor gave that his queen was one of the secret supporters of
Anne Ascue, and had even given her a ruby ring in token of her
favour.

If this be true, my lord, she dies," muttered the incensed
monarch between his teeth, " were she ten times closer knit to our
weak heart."

It is easily ascertained," observed the crafty Gardiner, who knew
the danger of delay ; " send for her majesty ; question her. If she
produce the ring "

Not to-night," interrupted the king," " not to-night ; I am
weary ; my tired spirit needs repose. You will find me in the
palace garden, my good lords, tomorrow. Let a party of the guard

attend I should like to see the terror' in her face," he added, with
a malignant smile, " when ordered to the Tower." ^

The procrastination of Henry saved the life of Catherine Parr.

The following morning the heroic Anne Ascue was placed upon
the rack — yes, in that age miscalled the age of chivalry, monsters
could be found to consign a woman, a fair young creature, to
torments which demons only could behold without a shudder,
and yet her murderers were born of women, and had sisters !
mothers ! Wriothesley demanded twice of the virgin the nature
of her relations with the queen, and what she had done with the
costly token of her favour. The sufferer was silent.

Stretch the rack ! " he exclaimed to the governor of the Tower ;
we will wring an answer from her yet."

Sir William 'Kingston, to the honour of his memory and his
manhood, positively refused.

The infuriated chancellor placed his own hand upon the wheel,
and turned it till the delicate limbs of the sufferer were nearly torn
asunder. Even the executioner turned aside, disgusted at the sight.
The maiden's constancy was still unmoved.

Baffled in their attempts, the still palpitating victim was removed
from her bed of torture, and condemned by the pitiless Wriothesley
to be burnt alive — a sentence which was afterwards executed in all
its barbarity, the noble-hearted girl, whose courage had preserved
her friend, being carried in a chair to the stake.

The above is no exaggerated picture ; on the contrary, but a faint
sketch of what the martyred Anne endured ; for she was a martyr
alike to honour, conscience, friendship, and her God ; and yet
posterity, which has erected a stately monument to the time-serving
Cranmer, who never once lifted his priestly voice against such
barbarity, has not inscribed the maiden's name upon a simple stone.
Such is the vaunted justice of time !

On the afternoon of the same day Henry and his queen were
seated in the gardens of the palace, for the ulcers in the monarch's
legs debarred him from all but the simplest exercise. The countenance
of Catherine was placid, as usual, and yet her heart beat
terribly, for she had been forewarned of her danger, but was
partially armed against it.

And so, Kate," said her husband, with a malicious leer, " thou
art grown a theologian — a very doctor in dispute. We must be
cautious how we encounter thee."

You jest, my lord," replied the queen, secretly rejoiced at the
favourable opportunity. " Women are unfit for argument, unless,"
she added, " in the hour of sickness to beguile their husbands of
its tediousness, and make them smile, as I have done your
highness."

Umph ! — say'st thou ? " demanded the king, suspiciously.

*' Man," answered Catherine, " is the stronger vessel, moulded

in God's own image ; — woman's was ta'en from man's : so should
she draw her judgments from his wisdom, as he draws his from a
still higher source."

The bloated countenance of the tyrant relaxed almost to a
smile.

Your grace, I see," she added, " is laughing at my want of skill ;
but if I failed to amuse your mind by my weak arguments, the
attempt was not without its use."
How so ? "

In the rich lessons it elicited."

Henry, who, like most sensualists, was susceptible to flattery,
would have been perfectly convinced by the unembarrassed ease of
the speaker's manner, had not the doubt respecting the ring still
rankled in his mind.

May be, Kate," he replied — " may be."
*' Nay, it is, your grace," she unhesitatingly replied.
Where is the ring ? " he suddenly demanded, " which I gave
thee on thy birthday ? "

Which, my lord ? " demanded Catherine, with coolness.
The ruby, wench — the ruby."

With an air of well-acted astonishment, Catherine unloved her
hand, and drew the ring from her finger — Seymour that very
morning had returned it to her.

Gad's death ! " exclaimed Henry, furiously ; for he imagined
that both the chancellor and Gardiner had deceived him ; " have
we been trifled with — duped by a prating priest and lying courtier ?
There is work for the headsman here."
Your majesty ! " said the terrified queen.

"We are chafed, Kate — but not with thee, wench — not with
thee."

At this moment Wriothesley, attended by a party of the guard,
ready to arrest the queen, entered the garden. Henry, despite his
infirmity, hastened to meet him, for he felt a touch of shame at
the idea of Catherine knowing how nearly he had been led into
giving his consent for her destruction.

Beast ! " he roared, as soon as he reached the astonished
functionary. " Fool ! without wit or sense ; one word of thy
knave's errand here, and thy resting-place shall be the Tower ! "
Sire ! " faltered the chancellor.

Another moment, and, by St. George, I'll hang thee, like a cur,
from the highest tower of my palace. Brave not my wrath ! Be
wise, and quit my sight directly."

In an instant the garden was cleared, and the still indignant
monarch returned to where he had left the apparently astonished,
but secretly delighted, Catherine.

Be not angry, my dear lord," she ventured timidly to exclaim ;
*' I'm afraid it wears your health too much."

The idiot ! " growled Henry.

Perhaps he has sinned in ignorance," she observed, " for I
have ever thought that he was honest. Let me plead for. him."

Kate," said the king in a voice which was softened by an
nnnsnal expression of kindness, " thou art too good to suspect
worthlessness in others. He does not deserve much mercy at thy
hands. Speak of him no more."

It must be admitted that the queen managed her husband
cleverly on this occasion ; but then she was a widow when he
married her.

CHAPTER XXIII.

Henry, of haughty mind and sturdy mien,
With fury reigned, and often changed his queen ;
Disowned the Pope, yet kept us Papists still.
And burned both sides which dared contest his will.

The death of Anne Ascue, and of other distinguished sufferers,
during the reign of Henry, inspires the mind with sympathy ; but
perhaps the most lamentable, if not the most affecting, instance of
his injustice is still to be related. During the small portion of his
remaining life, the Seymours, with the Earl of Hertford at their
head, acquired a complete influence over the king ; and thus
suddenly raised to power, of which they ultimately proved themselves
both incapable and unworthy, they endeavoured to secure
their greatness more firmly by the death of others. It is melancholy
to view the consequences of faction on the reign of those princes
whose passions have rendered them the prey of designing men.
The brothers of Jane Seymour were supposed to be warmly
attached to the Protestant faith, whose establishment had so
enriched them. Between them and the Towards the most
inveterate jealousy existed. This fatal passion proved the ruin of
the noblest scion of the worthless stem of the house of Norfolk, a
house which, in its long existence, like the aloe, has produced but
one glorious flower.

Henry, Earl of Surrey, son of the Duke of Norfolk, had set the
bright example, not of deriving his lustre merely from the splendour
of his descent, but of adding to it by his personal merit. One of
the most chivalrous of warriors, and most esteemed of the poets of
his day, the virtues and accomplishments of this gallant nobleman
gave more glory to his race than all the honours which flattery or
apostacy have since secured them. In one respect only Surrey was
deficient — he wanted prudence to give security to his pre-eminence
in rank, in fortune, and in genius. Jealous of his honour,
and fearless of personal danger, he could neither brook the slightest
appearance of insult, nor the shadow of reproach upon his military
reputation. During the last war in France he had distinguished

himself in various reckless enterprises, and at the close of the
campaign had received the important office of governor of Boxilogne,
where he sought incessantly to add to the renown of the English
chivalry by sallies and skirmishes with the French, and even by
personally engaging with the enemy, to which he also incited his
followers in imitation of the days of old,

Yv'iien Christian chiefs, by good Gods red led,
Planted the holy Cross in Palestine."

After an imprudent but glorious adventure, in which many
knights and officers were slain, Suitor was recalled, and Lord
Hertford appointed captain-general over the English pale in
France, whilst Lord Gray, his bitterest enemy, succeeded him in
his command of governor of Bologna.

The warrior poet was not of a temper to bear this unjust and
insulting measure with patience. Like the rest of his family, he
regarded the Seymours as upstarts, and attributed his disgrace to
their influence. His expressions of indignation were uttered in
that unguarded and forcible manner which showed a soul incapable
of treachery, by proving that he was above fearing it.

Unhappily, some secret foe conveyed this transport of indignation
to Hertford and the king, and the noblest ornament of the Court
was committed to the Tower.

Hertford naturally dreaded the power of the Towards, should
they ever be restored to favour ; and the Duke of Norfolk, politic
and experienced in courts, feared the ascendency of the Seymour
interest ; he even sought to avert the impending storm by an
alliance between that family and his own. His daughter, the
Duchess of Richmond, was solicited to marry Sir Thomas Seymour,
brother to the earl ; but that lady, although beautiful in person,
was a fiend in mind, . hating her father and her illustrious brother.
She refused, because the union hould have saved them. It has also
been stated by historians that Surrey, on his part, rejected the
daughter of the earl ; but this is disproved by the fact that his
wife was at this time living in the bonds of affection with him.
The duke, who had long been separated from his duchess, lived
with a Mrs. Holland, a lady of an-ancient Norfolk family ; and on
the tibial of that unhappy, but worthless man, both his wife,
daughter, and mistress appeared against him.

That the outraged wife should have forgotten the vow pronounced
at the altar — the mistress the man who had sacrificed so much for
her — might not have surprised the judges of the father ; but what
experience, what calculation of human depravity could have taught
them to behold with patience a sister, young, beautiful, and
accomplished, appearing at the bar of justice an unsought witness
to criminate her brother ? The chief point of her evidence, and
that which most influenced the judges of the noble Surrey in their

^53

condemnation, was, that he had borne on his arms what seemed to
her judgment a kingly crown, together with a cipher, which she
took to be H. R. Oh, woman ! woman !

'• Angels when good — devils when virtue leaves ye."

The defence of Surrey was worthy of his high fame as a soldier
and a man. In his replies to the allegations of the witnesses, he
showed that his acuteness and wit were equal to that fine imagination
which had made him the ornament of the age. In his
indignation at the perjury of his accusers, he evinced the spirit of
a knight who held his honour dearer than his life. But this
display of a great and upright mind availed not ; the base jury
found him guilty ; and Wriothesley, to his eternal disgrace, pronounced
sentence of death upon the gallant Howard — the model
of chivalry, the mirror of true love — whose genius alone would
have rescued the age in which he lived from oblivion or contempt.
He was remanded to the Tower, where, about a week after his
trial, he was privately beheaded.

The closing scene of the life of this celebrated man is enveloped
in oblivion, and we are denied the gratification of beholding one
of the noblest pictures which human nature has ever presented to
the contemplation of mankind — the death of the poet, warrior, and
Christian. The execution was carefully concealed from public
view, the contrivers of the iniquitous transaction well knowing
how the opinion of the populace would be expressed on the
occasion.

"With the lover of Geraldine expired the chivalry of England.
The \d.&i preux chevalier and one of the sweetest of her poets, died
upon the scaffold, with the bitter feeling upon his gallant mind
that a sister sent him there.

Henry VIII. had a peculiar taste for extinguishing the glories
of his reign. But Providence at last seemed tired of the caprices
of the crime-stained tyrant in shedding the blood of the poet
Surrey — the mirror of chivalry and knightly virtue. The cup of
his infamy was filled, and the forbearance of Heaven exhausted.
Yet even in this world the monster endured a portion of the
punishment reserved for cruelty and vice. His obesity became
extreme ; he was incapable of moving without assistance, and
frightful ulcers broke out upon his limbs, eating to his very flesh ;
in this state he became so furious that all trembled to approach
him. The queen, with her own hands — for, according to the
fashion of the times, she was skilled in surgery — dressed his
wounds, and endeavoured by the most devoted attentions to
beguile him of his pains. We have already seen how narrowly
she escaped death as her reward. All saw his end approaching,
but no one durst inform him of his condition, for several persons
had suffered death merely for predicting such an event, and each
VOL. II. A A 2

one was afraid lest in the transport of his fury he might punish
capitally the author of such unwelcome intelligence.

Cranmer, the queen, and members of the privy council were
assembled in the ante-chamber of the royal closet on the morning
which released England from its tyrant. They had been summoned
to see the stamp affixed to the warrant for the execution of the
Duke of Norfolk, lying under sentence in the Tower ; for the
sufferings of the English Nero had become so intense that he was
no longer capable of affixing the sign manual to the instruments
of his will, and an Act had been passed declaring the affixing of
such stamp or seal in the presence of the council, by order of the
king, equivalent to the regal signature. But although thus specially
summoned, all feared to enter the chamber where the monster
slept : each felt that his dissolution would be the guarantee of his
individual safety — each secretly prayed for it, expected it; yet
such was the force of terror, that not one ventured to give utterance
to his secret hope, but continued to speak of the dying king's
recovery as a thing of course. Cranmer, the primate, never showed
his want of moral courage more than at the dissolution of his
master.

Seated in a chair, in the royal closet, from which he was unable
to move without assistance, Henry sat, awaiting, with fretful
impatience, the arrival of his council. Although so near the grave,
his thirst for blood remained undiminished. The dread that
Norfolk, whom, since the fall of Catherine Howard, he hated,
should escape him, was wormwood to his revengeful heart ; added
to which, in exciting the terrors of all who approached him by the
brutal ferocity of his manner, he found the only solace to his
Sufferings — on the rack himself, it was a consolation to see others
writhe with agony as well.

For three days and nights sleep had not visited his weary eyes,
whose bloodshot, restless expression denoted the ill-suppressed
rage and impatience which consumed him. His once comely form
was bloated with excess, and his cheeks hung like bags of water
on his neck, adding, by their wax-like, sickly hue, to the horror of
his appearance. His voice, once so clear and manly, was now
broken to a low hoarse growl, and interrupted, when he endeavoured
to speak, by a cough which filled his mouth with foam and blood.
Of all the royal attendants, Sir Anthony Denny was the only one
who fearlessly approached him ; he had served him faithfully for
many years, and, despite his cruelties and vices, felt, from long
habit, attached to his troubled master.

Denny ! ugh ! Denny ! " murmured the king.

Sire ! " whispered the attendant, who was in an instant at his
side.

Have the council yet arrived ? "

*' They wait your highness's pleasure."

It seems I must wait them. Ugh ! But we shall live to thank
them for their duty, shall we not, Denny, eh ? "

The faithful servant was silent.

Shall we not live ? " hoarsely roared Henry, impatient that his
question had not been answered as he wished ; for, like most
dying men, the flattery of hope was dear to him.

I trust so, sire."

We ivill Z/w," continued the tyrant, furiously ; " our will si
stronger than our body ; ulcers may eat our flesh, but they can't-destroy
that — they can't destroy that ! "

*' The soul, indeed, is immortal," observed Sir Anthony.

Who spoke of soul ? " demanded the king, gloomily ; " I spoke
of will — the unconquerable mind's resolve can subdue agony ; it
may defeat death, or at least postpone the fatal blow. I am better,
Denny, am I not ? " he added, fixing at the same time a painfully
inquiring glance upon the knight ; " do I not look better H "

'" In sooth, your majesty speaks with more cheerfulness than you
have been wont of late."

I have my answer," growled Henry ; " when the human curs
who fawn on kings avoid their questions, the answer must be fatal.
Dog," he added, " couldst thou not have lied and cheated me with
the charlatan's last consolation — hope ? or dost thou think the
lion's breath so nearly spent that flattery were thrown away ? "

Here a violent fit of coughing interrupted the speaker's furious
reproaches, at the end of which he sank back exhausted in his
cushioned seat. The knight took a sponge steeped in aromatics
from a golden cup, and bathed his face and temples.

"Ah, Denny!" sighed the king, who felt relieved by the
attention, " heed not my impatience ; Henry knows thy faithful,
service, but would it not chafe an angel's patience to lie like a
crippled hound a prisoner here, living to feel the grave's corruption
in my corroding flesh — to taste its sickening taint in every breath
I draw — to know that I, the king, the master of fair England's soil,
lord of the lives of crouching millions, must die — be borne, like
common carrion, to the grave — the grave .'' "

It is the lot of all, sire."

Perchance men dream there," continued the sufferer ; " that's
the terror : to lie fettered in bonds of ice upon the narrow bier,
whilst the racked bi^ain is seared by burning visions, yet not
possess the strength, e'en by a groan or yell, to ease the o'er-fraught
heart. God ! it is terrible." Then, after a pause, he
added, "No, no. Thy justice never imagined punishment like that."

Shall I inform the council that your highness waits ? "
demanded the knight, who feared from the sudden change which
came over the countenance of his master that his end was not far
distant.

Xo — no ! I have scarce strength to make known my will. My

pains have suddenly grown easier. I feel as I could sleep. I
shall recover, Denny. I am sure I shall recover," he continued,
in a voice of exultation, "if I could only sleep."

As is usual when mortification has once taken place, the more
violent agonies were calmed ; and that which was the forerunner
of immediate death the speaker took for symptoms of amelioration.
Sir Anthony Denny carefully raised the cushions at the back of
the royal patient's chair, and stood watchfully beside him, ready
to execute his first command.

Stay," said Henry, " I shall sleep the better when it is done.
Dost see yon parchment ? "

His glance pointed to a deed lying on the table at a short
distance from him ; it was the death warrant of his former
favourite, the Duke of Norfolk.

I do," replied the knight.

With difficulty the king drew from his bosom the golden stamp
on which his name had been engraved, and which with jealous
vigilance he kept on his person.

Fix it," he muttered, in a low tone. The attendant hesitated.

Must I speak twice ? " added Henry. " Dost thou forget that I
am still a king — still thy master ; and that there are chains and
the block for traitors who dispute their sovereign's will ? "

Sir Anthony applied the fatal signet, and returned it upon his
knee to his master.

"Well, 'tis well," continued the speaker, .with a horrible smile
of satisfaction. " Take it to the council ; bid them despatch it to
the Tower ; the rest concerns Kingston and the executioner. That
done, return, place thyself at my closet-door, and watch me while
I sleep."

Henry's command was obeyed by the obsequious council, who
were kept, like lacqueys, trembling at the door, whilst the modern
Nero slept the sleep which preceded his dissolution.

Henry, in his sleep, experienced one of those remarkable dreams
which puzzle philosophy to explain, and give the lie to the
materialist. Time, for once, inverted his glass, his nearly exhausted
sands ran back, and the Moloch king beheld his victims, like
Banquo's vision, pass before him. First Wolsey — he of the eagle's
pride and lofty flight, whose magnificence and love of art cast a
veil over his weaknesses. With a cold glance the stately shade
swept before the sleeper's sight, and pointed with his finger to an
open grave. Death seemed to have purified him ; he wore his
purple gracefully, not proudly, and his expressive features had
more of pity in them than of scorn.

Katherine, the lofty Katherine of Arragon, followed next, her
crownless brow pale in the majesty of death. With a forgiving,
melancholy smile, she seemed to gaze upon the father of her child,
then melted, like the morning mist, into thin air.

Anne Boleyn, the fair, the fickle, the beautiful Anne Boleyn,
succeeded her stately predecessor. The smile upon her ruby lip
was of unearthly beauty, and her eyes, like sunbeams resting on
twin gems, flashed with supernatural brightness. The sleeper's
heart beat as wildly as when he first wooed and won his fickle
prize from the embraces of her poet lover. In his dream once
more he would have clasped her, when a hissing sound like that of
a falling axe fell on his ear, and streams of blood gushed round
and round him. Then commenced the long agony of Henry's
dream, the foretaste of his punishment. The thunder-peal rolled
heavily, and the forked lightning seemed to blind him with its
sulphurous flashes. The heavens rained blood ; the groaning earth
heaved with thick bubbles of the clotted gore which it had drunk ;
till, as if a second deluge were unloosed, the tyrant floated in one
crimson sea. Vainly he attempted in his slumber to escape. He
seemed to know that he was dreaming, but at the same time felt
that it was no natural dream. Conscience whispered that he saw
his final doom. Madly he seemed to dash and splash through the
billowy gore. The heads, the fresh bleeding heads of his victims,
met him at every turn — the Venerable More, who died for conscience e
J sa-Tf Pi — the aged Fisher — the last of the female i'lanta^SffeTs and Her
two sons — the gallant Surrey, and the guilty Catherine Howard.
The ghastly heads glared on him with their death-fixed eyes, and
the tyrant groaned and yelled in the agony of remorse and terror.
Cold drops of perspiration fell from his throbbing temples, and
trickled down his livid cheeks.

Sir Anthony Denny was alarmed at the noise ; and deeming that
it was the death struggle which choked the sleeper's utterance,
rushed into the ante-chamber, where the council were still waiting
to be summoned. His appearance startled the whispering nobles.

Now ! " exclaimed the primate, who was conversing with the
queen.

The king "

"Go on," added the impatient Seymour, uncle to the young
prince, who was present.

Is in his last agony," added the knight.

The queen instantly retired to her apartment, and the council ina
body proceeded to the chamber of the dying monarch.

The knight who preceded them threw open the folding doors at
their approach, for he knew that in a few moments the sovereign
power would pass from Henry's hand into those of his council,
and, like most courtiers, he bent to the rising power.

The king was still struggling in his dream.

"God," he murmured, "terrible are Thy judgments — not forever
— oh ! not for ever ! "

The groan of anguish which followed was so intense that it
seemed to have been wrung from the agony of a despairing soul.

^ttJOLt^ A^ L%^4L*^

All who heard it trembled, and Cranmer, although little given
superstition, turned pale.

It was the last," observed the Earl of Southampton ; " Henry VIII.
is dust."

God save King Edward the Sixth of England ! " cried the
council with wonderful unanimity, and with voices which showed
that they spoke like men released from an oppressive fear.

Their acclamations, however, had been premature. Henry was
exhausted by the terrors he had undergone, not dead. A second
groan, as fearful as the first, assured them of the important fact.
Like most men who have committed themselves by an excessive
zeal, they looked foolish and confused.

Cranmer approached the chair and placed his finger on the
sufferer's wrist.

It still beats," he observed in a whisper to Denny, who was
near him.

The touch dissolved the hideous spell, or species of nightmare,
under which Henry laboured. Opening his eyes, he stared wildly
upon the intruders, and, still under the influence of his dream,
muttered to himself :

These too ! why are they here ? I have not ta'en the lives of
these yet — not yet ! "

A peculiar glance was exchanged between the councillors.

Sire 1 "

Cranmer," exclaimed the monarch, recognising him, " I am
dying ! "

The primate was silent ; it was no moment for flattery ; an 1 yet
he felt that it would be scarcely prudent to confirm the speaker's
assertion.

Art silent ? Hast thou no prayer," faintly demanded the
nearly exhausted prince, " to bribe the ear of Mercy ? — no atoning
work to wash my crimes away — to cheat hell of its victim ? "

Sire," said Cranmer, in a low voice, "give some sign that you
die at last in the faith of Christ our Redeemer ! "

Henry pressed the hand of the prelate ; bust before he could
reply, the last string gave way, and he sank back a corpse !

The death-rattle had not ceased to be heard in his throat when
the cry of " God save King Edward ! " was repeated more cheerfully
even than before, for this time it was uttered by men who had
been trembling a moment before for their lives, and Henry, had he
survived, would never have forgiven their zeal, even in favour of
his son.

.Like all the Tudors, his natural thirst was for blood.

The body of the king, who had died at his palace at Westminster,
was conveyed to Leadenhall, there to lie in state until the funeral.
By his will Henry desired that his remains might be interred in
the choir of the church at Windsor, between the stalls and the

altar, and that the bones of Jane Seymour, already entombed
swithin the chapel, might be interred under the same monument.
Before the death of Wolsey, a splendid fabric had been begun fora
mausoleum. Although erroneously stated by late historians as
having been intended by the cardinal for his own tomb, the
inscription upon it of " Henry, Lord of Ireland," proved, as Fuller
judiciously remarked, that at first it must have been designed for
the king. The monarch enjoined also that the sepulchre of
Henry VI., whom he facetiously designated his uncle, and that
of Edward IV., his progenitor of the House of York, should be
beautified and repaired. The Protestant prince, as the Reformers
delight to call him, commanded that masses should be sung for the
good of his soul, and that four solemn obits should be kept yearly ;
at each obit ten pounds were to be distributed amongst thirteen
poor knights of Windsor, of whom he was the first patron ; and
that twelve pence, a long gown of cloth with a garter embroidered
thereon, and a mantle of the same material, should be distributed
to each knight.

With regard to the succession in case of Edward, Mary, or
Elizabeth dying without issue, it was to devolve upon the descendants
of Mary Queen of France, who had married his favourite,
the Duke of Suffolk ; the children of Margaret, the Scottish queen,
being unjustly omitted in this arrangement.

It is remarkable that all the arrangements in Henry's will were
passed over or annulled by uncontrollable events. The throne
was ultimately occupied by the descendants of Margaret, whom he
had excluded, and the tombs of Henry VI. and Edward IV. suffered
to fall into decay, and the very monument of the king himself Alas
never completed, his coffin, and that of Jane Seymour, being
discovered by chance, when the vault underneath the choir was
opened for the purpose of entombing Charles I. Mary, from,
horror of the dubious sentiment attributed to her father, and
Elizabeth from penuriousness, left the half-finished work
untouched, and the monument was finally taken down and sold
in the Civil Wars, when many of the noblest works of art and
antiquity were sacrificed to the levelling, rapacious hands of the
infuriated soldiery. It is, however, not a little singular that not a
single stone should mark the spot where rest the remains of a
monarch whose actions and character are more familiar perhaps to
the minds of Englishmen than any other British king who either
followed or preceded him.

The character of Henry VIII. has been so frequently and so
fully described, that any elaborate description of his character
wotild now appear like plagiarism. By contemporary Writers the
sum of his virtues and his vices was either aggravated or diminished
as party views or religious opinions influenced them.

Henry, with all his vices, possessed a cultivated taste, and while

under the influence of Wolsey did much for the advancement of
literature and art. In his reign it has been observed that no dunce
ever wore a mitre ; and history proves the observation to be correct.
His appreciation of men of letters and artists is undisputed.
Skelton the poet educated him. Although a priest, he was a
licentious writer, and something of a satirist. This would not
have prevented his preferment in the Church had he not offended
Wolsey by his famous lines, " Why come ye not to Court ? " — a
poem which excited great sensation at the period, and so roused
the indignation of the haughty cardinal, that the writer was obliged
to fly from his resentment. He took sanctuary in Westminster,
where the abbot Slip protected him until the year 1529, when he
expired shortly before his renowned persecutor, and was buried in
the churchyard at Westminster.

Wyat and Surrey at one period stood high in Henry's favour.

The Chronicles of Froissart, at his command, were first translated
by Lord Burners in 1513, and Pinson printed them. The celebrated
Leland, whose works are dear to every lover of the antiquities of
England, was keeper of his libraries, and employed at Henry's
expense upon his vast and interesting records. Borde, the earliest
medical writer, flourished in his reign ; nor must the names of
Parker, Lord Morley, Thomas Vaux, Rochford, Bryan, and Sir
Thomas Sternhold, who translated the Psalms in imitation of the
French poet Mart, be forgotten. More and Erasmus have been
already named. It was at the house of the former that the king
first became acquainted with the painter Holbein, and being
delighted with the productions of his pencil, took him home and
employed him for the rest of his reign. He was decidedly the first
English monarch who seriously encouraged the art of painting.
He had several artists in his pay besides Holbein, such as Quintain
Matsys, Johannes Corvus, Gerard Luke, Anthony Toto, Jerome de
Treviso, Homeward, Barth, and others. He also invited the
immortal Rafl;aelle and Titian to shed the lustre of their genius
upon his kingdom and his reign. It was the misfortune of
England that those glorious men declined to comply with his
request, supposing, it is said, that amongst a people where portrait
painting was so much encouraged, their peculiar talents would not
be called into play, yet it was the frequent practice of the
king to cause his battles and other memorable events to be commemorated
by the pencil of the painter as well as in the page of the
chronicler.

There is no doubt but that the Reformation checked, for a time,
the progress of literature and the arts, and frustrated Henry's
exertions in their behalf. The wealth and taste of the monastic
bodies, which had hitherto proved the great supporters of painters,
sculptors, and architects, were now destroyed, and no patrons for
many years arose to supply their place.

It is in judging Henry as a man that the conscientious writer
turns with disgust and loathing from the task. In friendship he
was insincere, in love capricious, in revenge a Nero, in deceit a
Judas. Where he once hated, no sentiment of justice or religion
withheld his arm. His sceptre became an axe ; and the offence,
however trivial, and the punishment were alike written in blood.
In short, in one comprehensive phrase, he had every vice which
renders humanity terrible and despicable, without one solitary
virtue — unless courage may be termed so — to redeem it. And yet
such was the state of public morals at the time, that the bloated
savage was regretted by the people whose liberties he trampled
under foot, whose intelligence he submitted to the standard of his
own uncertain, capricious, changing faith. No monarch ever
mounted the throne under more favourable auspices, or possessed
greater opportunities for good, than Henry VIII. Truth reluctantly
compels us to add, that no sovereign ever more abused them.

No sooner had the breath left the body of their late dreaded
master, than the council proceeded to the chamber of his son — now
Edward VI., then in his tenth year. The royal child was busily
occupied in reading his book of prayers — the same which Holbein
had illuminated for his father previous to his marriage with Anne
Boleyn. The young prince was, from his earliest infancy, of a
melancholy temperament, which gave an appearance of dignity
unusual in one so young. As the nobles, with his uncle Hertford
at their head, thronged eagerly around him, his cheek became
suddenly pale ; he guessed the melancholy truth, and burst into
tears. He was too young not to have loved his father.

The king," he sobbed, " the king ! "

Cranmer bent the knee, and kissed his little hand, conveying to
him by that act of homage the intelligence that the crown had
descended to his brow, and that he was doubly an orphan.

The desolate child wept long and bitterly. Never was crownless
joyously received.

Taking him by the hand, his uncle, the Earl of Hertford, led the
boy-king from his private apartment towards the council-chamber,
the lords preceding them bareheaded, and the youth still sobbing
with ill-suppressed grief. The primate placed him in the chair of
state amid a unanimous cry of " God save King Edward."
On breaking the seals of Henry's will, it was discovered that he
had fixed the majority of his son at the completion of his eighteenth
year, and that the executors, sixteen in number, were to be intrusted
with the administration of the kingdom during his minority. Their
names were : Cranmer, Archbishop of Canterbury ; Wriothesley,
the Chancellor ; St. John. Great Master ; Lord Russell, Privy Seal ;
the Earl of Hertford, Chamberlain ; Viscount Lisle, Admiral ;
Tonstal, Bishop of Durham ; Sir Anthony Browne, Master of the
Horse ; Sir William Paget, Secretary of State ; Sir Edward North ;

Sir Edward Montague, Chief Justice of the Common. Pleas ; Judge
Bromley ; Sir Anthony Denny ; Sir "William Herbert, Chief
Gentleman of the Privy Chamber ; Sir Edward Wotton, the
Treasurer of Calais ; and Dr. Wotton, Dean of Canterbury.

In the hands of these persons was invested the regal power.
They were to be assisted by a council, whose office was limited to
offering advice. Amongst the latter were the Earl of Arundel and
Sir Thomas Seymour, the king's uncle — the same who, in a few
weeks after the death of his brother-in-law, espoused the queen
dowager, Catherine Parr.

This will gave satisfaction neither to one party nor the other. The
Chancellor was, perhaps, the only person contented with it, as,
from his office, he felt assured that a great portion of the authority
of the State must fall into his hands. No sooner had the document
been read than Hertford quickly observed that the Government
would lose its dignity without an ostensible head, who might
represent the royal majesty, and receive addresses from the foreign
ambassadors.

The President of the Council might suffice, I think," observed
the Chancellor, bitterly.

Meaning yourself, no doubt, my lord ? "

Wriothesley bowed.

The king's blood," replied Hertford, tauntingly, " may best
represent his crown."

Alas, my lord, where are we to look for it ? " demanded the
lawyer, with a sneer ; " our late sovereign took good care to leave
few descendants of York or of Plantagenet to embarrass his
successor. The nearest relative, in such a case, is the Cardinal
de la Pole, and I presume you would not vote for him,"

Lisle, whose ambitious projects had long been maturing, smiled
at the seeds of division thus early sown. He saw that he should
reap a goodly harvest in the end. He did so.

Sir Thomas Seymour, although he hated his brother, felt that it
would be but politic to join his interest with his in this ; and their
united interest prevailed. Hertford was elected Lord Protector,
and soon after created Duke of Somerset ; by which name he is,
perhaps, better known in history ; the cunning Lisle, who was
secretly plotting his ruin, receiving as the price of his consent the
earldom of Warwick. But our old acquaintance had yet higher
views, which touched the crown itself.

Just as the council was about to disperse, someone suddenly
recollected the Duke of Norfolk.

Behead him ! " exclaimed Hertford.

Impossible," replied the Chancellor, coolly, for he was secretly
inclined towards the duke, and sought to mortify the Protector for
the triumph he had obtained over him.

Impossible ! " repeated the haughty peer ; " know, my lord.

that when speaking in our royal nephew's name, we speak our
will — that nothing is impossible."

By we does your lordship mean the regency ? " demanded the
subtle lawyer.

Hertford was silent. The Chancellor continued :

It is fit we understand, my lords, the meaning of the noble
earl — the royal WE."

The nobles turned an inquiring glance towards the uncle of the
king, who, fearing that he had too soon unmasked his game,
replied, in some confusion :

Of course I mean the council, and that the regal power, full
and entire, is centred in its hands."

I thank your lordship," exclaimed Wriothesley, bowing
mockingly, " and call upon my colleagues here to remember the
admission. The regal power, full and entire'' he solemnly repeated,
is vested in our hands ; consequently, to conspire against it would
be treason."

The admission afterwards proved fatal to him who made it.

My lords, the warrant is already signed," exclaimed Hertford,
who was most anxious to secure the destruction of his wily enemy ;
the duke therefore is "

Improperly so," interrupted the Chancellor ; " the royal stamp
should have been affixed in our presence — without which it is
invalid."

Certainly," replied the council, who began to fear that they had
been too precipitate in yielding to the pretensions of the uncle of
the king, and were willing to prove to him that they knew how to
defend their rights ; " the warrant is illegal."

The Chancellor drew the parchment from his bosom and deliberately
tore the royal monogram from the margin. From that
instant it became worthless.

Hertford, although furious, was, from prudence, silent.

For three days the death of Henry was kept secret from the
people, and on the fourth, the Lord Mayor being summoned, and
the City filled with troops, his infant successor was proclaimed
king.

About six months after the accession of Edward VI., at the close
of a sultry evening in July, a ship, evidently of a foreign build,
was seen lazily making its way through the pool towards old
London Bridge : the sluggish wind scarcely removed a crease from
the folds of her heavy sails, and she moved with as much deliberation
and state as a City alderman, or a pimple-nosed abbot after a
solemn feast. Amongst the spectators who watched her progress
was a fine old white-haired man, whose unbroken height and erect
carriage showed that time had dealt most kindly with him ; his
attire, without being rich, showed that he belonged to the wealthy
class ; a stranger gazing on him would most probably, judging from

the eager look with which he watched the ship, have taken him
for the owner, or, at least, a merchant who had a rich freight onboard.
In both surmises he would have been mistaken ; the only
treasures which the gallant bark carried for him were the orphan
child and grandchildren of his old master, whom he served and
loved in his youth — Sir Richard Cranfield.

We scarcely need inform our readers that the old man was no
other than the faithful Steadman. Like a statue of Ancient Fidelity,
he remained upon the bank of the river waiting the arrival of the
ship. At times, the thought of the evening when he and his
widowed mistress had last landed there — his gallant nephew's
fate — his sister's wrongs — and Sir John de Corbey's crimes, would
dim his eyes ; but the hope of once more embracing the child of
his adoption — the heiress of the race he loved — perhaps of dancing
her children on his knee, cleared them again, as April's sun
disperses the descending showers.

As the boat neared the shore, the old man's heart beat quickly.
It touched the quay at last, and a lady, whose matron form and
graceful person were still redolent of beauty, leaning upon the arm
of a foreign-looking cavalier, set foot upon the soil of England, the
first time for fourteen years.

It was Walter and his devoted wife. The two children — a boy
and a girl — who followed, each holding the hand of a quiet, shrewd-looking
personage, were the only issue of their marriage. The
youth, who was about twelve years of age, already fancied himself
a man ; he was a brave, gallant little fellow, who feared nothing
but the reproof of his mother, or a tear in the blue eye of his sister.
After her parents, the girl would have been puzzled to say which
she loved most, her brother or her conductor, our old friend Patch.

Lady," exclaimed the old soldier, as the heiress of Cranfield set
foot upon land, " Mary "

He was too much overcome with emotion to be able to utter
more, but would have knelt to kiss the hand which she extended
towards him. With true woman's tact and feeling she prevented
his design, and drawing him towards her, kissed him affectionately
upon the cheek.

*' My kind — my second father ! " she exclaimed.

Walter's hand was in an instant grasped in his,

•' Welcome — a thousand times welcome to your country ! "
murmured the faithful, humble friend. Time has seemed long,
very long, since I beheld you. I often thought'" he added, "that
a stranger would close the old man's eyes, and not his master's
child."

We shall have many a year of happiness and love to pass
together yet, old soldier," observed Walter, 'for he saw that Mary's
heart was too full of former recollections to permit her to speak.

"And are these your children ? '' demanded Steadman, pointing

to the boy and girl, who stood with their guardian, Patch, gazing
on with an inquiring eye, and wondering who the white-haired
man could be.

They are," said Walter.

It is Steadman ! " added the'jester, who at once had recognised
him. '

Steadman ! " they both repeated, throwing their arms round
the old man's neck ; " what, dear old Steadman, who followed
grandfather to the wars, and protected mamma from her cruel
guardian when a child ? Oh ! how we shall love him ! "

The yeoman's honest heart was full ; his fidelity in exile and
absence had been remembered ; the child he had so truly loved
had taught her children to repeat his name. The service of a life
was well repaid.

What a pity," exclaimed the boy, " that you are too old to go
with me to the wars I " He dreamed of nothing else. " But, never
mind," he added ; " when I return from each campaign we will
sit cosily by the fireside, and I will relate to you my adventures,
and listen by turns to yours. Oh ! we shall be such friends ! "

Your name ? " sobbed the old man to the youth.

Richard."

It was the same as his old lord's, whom he had loved and
followed when a boy. He could almost have imagined that Time
had inverted his glass, and suffered the sands to run back for more
than half a century. Catching the sturdy little fellow in his arms,
he pressed him to his heart ; then, confused at the freedom he had
taken with the heir of his master's house, he would have kissed
his hands.

The scene was becoming too painful for the feelings of the Lady
Mary. Fortunately, the house of the aged faithful Marietta was
not far distant ; a few moments sufficed to bring them there, where
the most hospitable preparations had been made for their arrival.
As they crossed the threshold two persons muffled in cloaks passed
them, seemingly anxious to avoid recognition ; but the quick eye
of Patch was not to be deceived. He recognised them in an
instant — the first was the fanatical son of Sir Richard Everil, the
other Louis d'Auverne, his old patron Wolsey's son.

This is indeed a joyful meeting," exclaimed the jester, who
willingly would have embraced him.

Louis ! " sternly uttered his companion.

Why," resumed the speaker, " have we so long remained
estranged ? Why have you not written ? "

Louis ! " repeated the Lollard, in a tone more impatient than
before.

A moment," replied the youth. " It can scarcely be a sin to
express our gratitude to those who love us ; 'tis the last weakness,"
he added. " Heaven will pardon it. Father, friend, our paths are

different ; but my heart to you is still unchanged. Pray for me —
pray for me ; and farewell."

With these words Louis d'Auverne sprang from the doorway,
and in an instant was out of sight. The jester stood gazing mournfully
after him.

CHAPTER XXIV.

The extensive authority and imperious character of Henry had
retained the partisans of both religions in subjection ; but upon
his demise the hopes of the Protestants and the fears of the
Catholics began to revive, and the zeal of these parties produced
everywhere disputes and animosities — the usual preludes to more
fatal divisions. The Protector, the Duke of Somerset, had long
been regarded as a secret partisan of the Reformers ; and being now
invested with the regal authority, he threw aside all restraint, and
at once discovered his intention of correcting the abuses of the
ancient religion, and of adopting still more Protestant innovations.
He took care that every person intrusted with the education of
the young king should be imbued with the same principles as
himself ; and as the youthful Edward discovered a taste for every
kind of literature — especially theological — far beyond his tender
years, all men foresaw, in the course of his reign, the total abolition
of the Catholic faith ; and many, in the usual time-serving spirit of
courtiers, declared themselves in favour of those tenets which were
likely to prevail. The wealth which most of the nobles had
acquired from the spoils of the clergy induced them to widen the
breach between England and Rome ; and, by establishing a contrariety
of speculative doctrines — as well of discipline as of faith —
to render a coalition with the mother church impracticable. Their
rapacity also was still further excited by the prospect of pillaging
the secular, as they had already done the regular, clergy ; and they
knew that while any share of the old doctrines prevailed, or any
respect to ecclesiastical authority remained, they could never
hope to succeed in their enterprise.

This condition of things induced Sir Richard Everil and his son
to leave their retreat at Antwerp, and once more venture into the
arena of polemical adventure. The state of toleration was favourable
even to their extreme opinions ; and Louis d'Auverne, whose
naturally gentle spirit had been gradually subjected by the stern
enthusiasm of his friend, accompanied them. The Lollards, so
bitterly persecuted in the preceding reign, now began to show their
heads ; although, with considerable prudence, they veiled many
of their peculiar views, and confounded themselves under the
general name of Reformers. Of the most fanatical portion of this
sect young Everil soon became the leader, and the new-made Earl

of Warwick, who aspired in secret to the Protectorship and the
downfall of the Seymours, leagued himself with him : he saw that
he was one of those men who in times like the present were
powerful cither in favour or against any cause to which they allied
or opposed themselves.

The Protector, in' his schemes for advancing the Reformation, had
always recourse to the counsels of Cranmer, who, being a man of
moderation and prudence, was averse to all violent changes, and
desired to bring over the people by insensible innovations to that
system of doctrine and discipline which he deemed most perfect.
He also, probably, foresaw that a Reformation which carefully
avoided extremes was likely to be most lasting ; and that a devotion
merely spiritual was fitted only to the fervour of a new sect. He
seems, therefore, to have contemplated the establishment of a
hierarchy which might stand as a perpetual barrier against Rome,
and retain the reverence of the people, even after their enthusiastic
zeal had diminished or entirely evaporated. The person who
opposed with greatest authority any further advances towards the
Reformation was Gardiner, Bishop of Winchester,"'who was secretly
supported by Warwick in the council as a means of embarrassing
the Protector, whose younger brother, Lord Seymour, had so
wrought on the affections of the queen dowager, that she married
him within a few months of Henry's death — a union which so
increased his wealth and credit, that he aimed at nothing less than
the overthrow of the regent, and seizing the reins of power himself.
To increase his popularity, he affected the opinions of the most
fanatical of the Reformers — spoke of reducing the number of
bishops — lessening the power of the convocation of the clergy —
and, indeed, gave it to be secretly understood that he was opposed
to the establishment of any hierarchy, as savouring too much of the
doctrines of Rome.

The great aim of Somerset's policy was to carry out the plan of
the late king, and secure the union between England and Scotland
by the marriage of Edward with the infant queen ; but as the
Catholic party in the latter country was still dominant, all overtures
for the alliance were courteously refused, and a war was the
consequence, in which the Scots, as usual, were worsted ; but the
advantages not being pushed to the last extremity, it only inspired
that impetuous people with a still greater aversion to a union so
violently courted.

The queen dowager of Scotland, finding that such was the
general feeling of the nation, called a Parliament at Haddington,
and it was there proposed that the youthful Mary should, for still
further security, be sent to France, and committed to the
guardianship of that ancient ally : which, after a stormy debate,
was agreed to — the clergy, who dreaded the consequence of the
English alliance, seconding the measure with all their influence.
VOL. II. B B 2

It was while the Protector was engaged in the war to which
these circumstances gave rise, that Lord Seymour sought the
occasion of his overthrow, and made an attempt which ultimately
recoiled upon himself.

He represented to his friends that formerly, during a minority,
the office of Protector of the kingdom had ever been kept distinct
from that of governor of the king's person, and that the union of
these important officers in one person conferred an authority
dangerous to the well-being of the kingdom. He even procured
a letter from the young king, addressed to the Parliament, in which
Edward desired that Seymour might be appointed his governor.
The design, however, was discovered, and a party of nobles sent to
remonstrate with him. He received them haughtily, and threatened,
if his just claims Avere rejected, to make the Parliament the
blackest which ever sat in England. Alarmed at his proceedings,
the council summoned him before them to answer for his conduct.
He refused to attend ; upon which they threatened to order him to
the Tower ; at the same time stating that, so far from the young
king's letter being a protection, it would be considered as an
aggravation of his offence. This firmness, added to the loss of
influence which he experienced on the death of his wife, the queen
dowager, who expired in childbed, induced him to submit to his
brother, and a hollow reconciliation was patched up between them.

Once more a widower, Seymour now turned his ambitious views
towards the Throne itself. He saw that Edward's constitution was
Aveak, that in all probability he would not live long ; he therefore
secretly made his addresses to the Princess Elizabeth, then in the
sixteenth year of her age ; and that lady, whom even the pursuit
of ambition and the hurry of political intrigue could not, in her
more advanced years, entirely disengage from the influence of the
tender passion, seems to have listened to his overtures with considerable
complacency. But as Henry, by his Avill, had excluded
his daughters from all share in the succession, unless they married
with the consent of his executors, and that consent it was certain
Seymour never could obtain, it was concluded that he meant to
effect his purpose by expedients even more rash and criminal.
Secretly as these proceedings had been carried on, they reached
the ears of the council, and several secret meetings had been held
to consider whether the moment had not arrived to arrest the
daring conspirator. Warwick, to the astonishment of all, was
against such a proceeding, his secret aim being to involve the Lady
Elizabeth in Seymour's downfall, and so remove one barrier to him
and the long-cherished object of his ambition.

It is not to be supposed that on his return to England our old
acquaintance Walter suffered much time to elapse before he
petitioned for the raising of the sequestration which Henry in his
wrath had laid upon the lands of Cranfield. Day after day he

attended the council, and was as frequently put off with promises
never intended to be kept, for the spoil was too rich to be lightly-disgorge.
It was on one of these occasions, while waiting in the
ante-chamber with his friend and adviser Patch, that he heard
voices in loud and stormy debate within.

This was the more unusual, as Edward himself presided at the
council board.

One would imagine," said the jester, in his usual sarcastic tone,
that the king amused himself at shovel-board, instead of presiding
at a council-board. Didst hear that voice ? "

'Twas Warwick's," observed his companion ; "misfortune swells
him."

And will," added Patch, " until the bubble bursts. When the
oak hath fallen, the reed imagines itself an oak. There are shades
which haunt these walls must smile in bitter mockery at the
fantastic tricks of their successors — pygmies playing at the Titans'
games."

The dispute grows warmer."

Would'st like to see the interior of the ant-hill ? " demanded
Patch.

What mean you ? "

Follow me," continued his friend ; " the Syracuse tyrant was
not the only one who framed an ear to test his courtiers' truth.
There are secrets in this palace would make Satan smile with
admiration, were he planning one for his own home."

'• Mean you "

Follow me, and see."

Hastily passing from the ante-chamber, they entered the armoury,
where goodly suits were piled in niches, some inlaid with gold,
others curiously damascened in Milan steel ; and at the east end of
the room, in a recess, was a magnificent one, both for man and
horse, worn by the late king, and presented to him by his sometime
ally and friend, and sometime enemy, the Emperor Charles V.
The species of arch under which it stood was panelled in
oak, to correspond with the rest of the apartment. After carefully
looking round to see that they were not observed, the jester
pushed back an acorn in the centre of one of the mouldings, when
a portion of the wainscot, large enough to admit of a stout person
passing, rolled back, and discovered a passage, dimly lit by loopholes,
irregularly left in the deeply-moulded cornice, which ran
round the alcove. Obeying a motion of his hand, Walter followed
his conductor, who, despite the obscurity, walked like one certain
of his whereabouts, till they reached a small closet, in which were
two chairs covered with rich brocade, but enveloped in dust from
long disuse. They were both placed close to the wall, in which
apertures were pierced, extending to the back of the throne, and
through which the voice of the speakers at the council-board were

conveyed as by so many speaking trumpets to the inmates of the
room.

*' An ingenious contrivance," observed "Walter, as he gazed
curiously around.

"What is more ingenious than tyranny ? " demanded his
companion.

Was this the late king's contrivance ? "

No, his father's," replied the jester, " the man with a kingly
crown and a scrivener's heart ; whose wisdom was to suspect all
and trust to no man — who loved gold better than Heaven, and who
only left his hoards behind because he could hit on no means of
taking them with him — whose life was one incarnate lie — who
murdered the heir he pretended to avenge, and blackened Richard's
memory to justify his own."

You speak of the impostor Perkin "Warbeck ? " said "Walter.

Impostor ! " repeated Patch, his lip quivering with suppressed
emotion as he echoed the word.

At least I have been taught to consider him as such."

Then think so still," exclaimed his friend ; " 'tis not the first lie
honest men have trusted. It were a curious speculation, "Walter,"
he added kindly, " to calculate how many truths and errors time
will one day set in their true light — how many fames purge of the
damning spots which miscalled history has splashed them o'er with
how many earthly glories it will dim."

True."

To time, then, leave Perkin "Warbeck and his cause," said the
jester : " the old destroyer will prove his best avenger. Hark ! " he
added, as the sound of voices rose high within the council chamber,
that is "Warwick'speaking."

Warwick ! " repeated Walter, puzzled at the new title, although
he recognised the voice.

"Or Dudley," added Patch, "an thou likest the popinjay by his
old plumage better. Hast thou forgot the chase he led thee the
night we fled from Kimbolton with the Princess Mary ? He plays
a daring game ; but, if I read the royal orphan's star aright, a
losing one. Both Somerset and Seymour are his tools. He plays
the brothers each against the other, striving to ruin both."

He is a traitor ! " muttered Walter.

You mistake," said his friend ; " he is a politician,"

On applying their ears to the apertures, they heard Warwick
propose that a warrant should be made out for Seymour's committal
to the Tower, to be used only in the event of his completing
his projected marriage with the Princess Elizabeth, whose want of
duty and respect to her brother and sovereign Edward, in listening
to such clandestine proposals, he painted in language but too well
calculated to excite the young prince's resentment.

Why not proceed at Once ? " demanded Somerset, who was seated

upon a stool placed on the throne itself, beside his nephew ; " I
cannot see the motive for this delay."

Nor I," modestly added the youthful prince.

These are the things the world calls statesmen," muttered the
jester ; " the motive is as clear as any sunbeam ; aught save a bat
or barn owl might see through it."

Were it not wiser," continued Warwick — he prudently put the
suggestion interrogatively, in order to feel his ground as he went
along — " to let the princess still further commit herself, even to the
consenting to a private marriage with this ambitious man ? and by
that act forfeit all chance of succession to the crown ? "

And then ? " said Cranmer, inquiringly.

Arrest them both together : Seymour will be ta'en in the overt
act of treason, Elizabeth in rebellion to her brother's will."

All the members of the council present, except Cranmer, whose
affection for his god-daughter induced him to oppose it, voted in
favour of the proposition of the earl, to whom the warrant, signed
by the king and Somerset's own hands, was accordingly intrusted,
to be put in force the moment he should find the act of treason
accomplished ; indeed, so excited were both the Protector and the
youthful Edward, that it required all the primate's eloquence to
prevent the name of the imprudent princess from being included
in the order of arrest ; as it was, he only postponed it.

We have witnessed a strange scene," observed Walter, in a
whisper to his companion ; " what can be Warwick's motive ? "

Ambition," replied Patch ; " he plays one brother off against
the other."

But his hostility to the Lady Elizabeth ? "

She stands between him and the crown."

The crown ! " repeated Walter, with a look of astonishment.

*' Not for himself," added the jester, — that were a flight too lofty
e'en for his ambition, — but for another, under whose name he
trusts to reign, and through whose marriage he will place his own
blood on England's throne. I have watched his game with interest ;
he plays it boldly, but will fail at last."

You think so ? "

I am sure so," replied Patch ; " the devil, whom he serves, will
place his foot upon the throne, then change it to a scaffold. It is
not often I predict in vain."

The princess must be warned in time," exclaimed Walter, after
a few moments' pause.

The daughter of Anne Boleyn," said the jester, fixing his eye
upon the speaker.

Is not answerable for her mother's cruelty," replied our hero ;
besides, she is an orphan and a woman, beset by enemies, waylaid
with cruel snares. Trust me, old friend, we shall sleep better for
the rescuing her."

His companion pressed his hand with the air of a man who felt
that he had wronged him by a doubt, which he never ought to have
entertained, of his generosity and justice.

The serpent's trail," he whispered, " despite man's fall, hath
not left its venom in every heart — earth were indeed a desert
else."

The discussion before the council on the fate of Seymour was
followed by one of still greater importance to our hero — the consideration
of his petition for the restoration of his wife's estates.
Patch, through the agency of his partner Marietta, had solicited the
influence of several of the members of the board, who being under
great pecuniary obligations to the wealthy merchant, had faithfully
promised their best services when the question came before them.
It was amusing to witness how they kept their faith ; not one who
had pledged himself but spoke and argued against the impolicy of
restoring the rich domain of Cranfield to its owner ; the great plea
urged was, that if the business of restoration was once commenced,
there was no knowing where the claims might stop, and that the
crown would become impoverished by such acts of justice.
Warwick, who had an eye to the possession for himself, was particularly
opposed to it ; it was not the only project in which he
was doomed to disappointment.

Farewell to Cranfield ! " exclaimed Walter, bitterly, as he
listened to the discussion. " Justice, Justice, how is thy name
perverted ! "

Fear not," said Patch ; " the heir shall win it yet."

His friend shook his head incredulously.

I tell thee so," continued the speaker ; " nay, more, I promise
thee — and experience hath by this time convinced thee that the
jester's promise is more to be relied on than a prince's oath. But
come," he added, " let us retrace our steps ; we have heard all that
concerns us, more than we came to hear. Home — home — and
there consider the best means to baffle Warwick and preserve
Elizabeth."

And Seymour," added his companion, with earnestness.

Is past hope," added the jester ; " one of those stubborn men
who think fate may be vanquished by braving it — who try to stare
danger out of countenance, nor find their error till the" fall o'er
the precipice."

That very night two horsemen, dressed as Italian merchants,
each carrying a small bale of merchandise, set out for Hatfield, the
residence of the Princess Elizabeth, who, although regarded with
more favour by her Protestant brother than the Catholic Princess
Mary, was still, from her proximity to the crown, an object of
suspicion ; and from the attachment which the great body of
Reformers bore her person — almost of rivalry — Seymour was not
far wrong in his calculation when he thought that the possession

of her hand would prove a stepping-stone to the realisation of his
dreams of ambition.

It is impossible to ascertain at this remote period how far the
courtship was really carried between Seymour and the youthful
princess ; but there is every reason to believe that she was fascinated
with the elegant manners and eloquent tongue of her suitor, and,
but for the interference of the council, would have married him,
despite the clause in her father's will, which, as Edward was then
in health and Mary stood between her and the succession, affected
her but little. It would have been a singular marriage, that of the
brother of Jane Seymour and the daughter of Anne Boleyn !

Elizabeth was walking in the grounds of Hatfield, attended by
the ladies of her little Court, who in point of fact were no other
than spies upon her conduct, placed there by the jealous Somerset
and intriguing Warwick to watch her, when two traders, having
all the appearance of Italian merchants, were seen making their
way towards the house.

The heart of the princess was ill at ease. With her usual penetration
— for she was remarkable for that quality even at that early
age — she saw that she was surrounded by those who, under the
mask of respect, were little better than enemies, ready to catch at
each unguarded word. She had promised that very evening to
meet her lover — to listen to his vows, if not to yield to his importunate
entreaties for a secret marriage, which something whispered
her would be the signal of his ruin, if not her own. Time hung,
as it always does in moments of anxiety, with leaden pinions, and
despite her habit of self-command, a close observer might have seen
by her restless eye that her heart was ill at ease.

No sooner did the horsemen perceive the princess than they
dismounted from their steeds, which they consigned to two stout
serving men who followed them. They approached the group of
ladies.

Back, fellows ! " said Lady Mortimer, who acted as mistress of
the little household at Hatfield, where, at this period, Elizabeth
was only a temporary visitor ; " no strangers are permitted to
approach her grace."

The intruders instantly paused, not to alarm the party, and
respectfully uncovered to the future queen, who gently inclined
her head, at the same time demanding of the speaker who the
strangers were.

Traders, I believe," replied her ladyship.

From Milan, your grace," added the elder of the strangers, who
was, in fact, no other than Patch. " I have passementeries might
serve an empress for her coronation robes, and safety fit to line
them, jewel work from Florence, a ring from Cellini's own hand,
and a pearl which her highness Louise of Savoy sent to the
Constable Bourbon when she offered him her hand in marriage, asa

means of settling their disputes ; laces of Venice," he added,
"and cunning work from Flanders — merchandise worthy of
beauty's eyes to dwell upon."

Walter, whose experience in the nature of the baubles they
carried Alas less than his companion's, was occupied during this
speech in unbuckling the straps of the packs, and displaying their
contents to view. Elizabeth, not suspecting that the traders were
other than they seemed, was turning coldly away, when the
entreaties of her attendants arrested her steps, and she suffered
herself to be persuaded to examine the strangers' merchandise,
much of which was really curious and valuable.

Never had the fair dames found so reasonable a trader. The
Venetian laces and passementeries changed owners at a price far
short of the value of the precious metals in which they were
worked. A small mirror of smoked crystal attracted the attention
of Lady Mortimer, whom female curiosity had thrown off her
guard.

And what is this, Sir Italian ? " she demanded.

"An Egyptian mirror," replied the jester, " in which the past
may be recalled and the future predicted. It was a similar one in
which Cleopatra foresaw the choice between death and the dishonour
of a Roman triumph, and chose the latter. The wise
Cornelius, in this very one, showed the late Earl of Surrey his
lady-love ; and in this — provided," he added, " that your ladyship
is still unmarried — you may see the features of your future
husband."

Thou knowest I am a widow, cunning knave," replied the
dame, laughingly ; " to me thy glass is useless."

In that case others may read your fortunes for you," observed
Patch.

Lady Mortimer, like most of the females of the age, was superstitious,
and although she professed the while her utter disbelief
in the virtues of the glass, she suffered herself to be persuaded to
step aside with the merchant to consult it. As soon as they were
out of hearing of the circle, the jester asked her upon what point
she wished to consult his skill.

A promise hath been made me," said the lady, in a low tone,
fearful lest even the trees should hear her ; " canst tell by whom ? "

Patch looked for several moments in the glass.

A tall, dark man," he replied, " who has a scar on his right
temple ; a soldier, I should judge from his martial air ; a noble
certain, for he wears the chain and badge of some knightly order,
and a bear's head upon the pommel of his sword. Have I described
him rightly, lady ? "

"As faithfully as I could myself," replied the awe-stricken
woman.

It was no great wonder that he did so, for he had long been

acquainted with the Earl of Warwick, and knew that Lady
Mortimer was in his interests.

Will he keep faith with me ? " she demanded.

Again the mirror was consulted, with the same apparent confidence,
by the stranger.

No," he boldly answered.

No ! " repeated the lady.

He himself will not possess the power. I see him crushed by
a pile he has been endeavouring to rear ; a scaffold — an axe — and
woe," he added, " woe to those who trust him."

From his knowledge of mankind and peculiar means of information,
it required no very profound knowledge in the black art
for the speaker to predict the downfall of the ambitious Warwick.
His listener was both surprised and intimidated at his skill, and
received his predictions with superstitious reverence.

What," said the princess, advancing towards them, for she had
observed the changing countenance of Lady Mortimer, " hath the
cunning man told thee of a second husband, or predicted that thy
first one should return ? "

Neither," replied the lady, drawing a little on one side, that
Elizabeth might consult the oracle, if such were her pleasure.

The princess eyed our old acquaintance for some time with a
cool, steady glance, as if she were mentally reading him.

"Thou art a clever knave," she at last exclaimed, "to have
wrought this on the Lady Mortimer ! But come," she added, good-humouredly,
" let me try thy skill. Tell me, what has fate in
reserve for me ? "

A crown," replied Patch, without a moment's hesitation.

Speak lower," said the princess, who began to feel alarmed at
her imprudence, well knowing that such a prediction might
materially injure her both with Edward and her sister Mary,
should any of the spies around her overhear it. "When? "she
added.

After trials which will wear your patience, and dangers which
it will require all your prudence to avoid," whispered the jester.

"From whence arises my chief danger .?" anxiously inquired the
princess.

Love."

The questioner started — it seemed as if a warning was thus
singularly conveyed to her of the precipice upon the brink of
which she so incautiously was treading.

Keep not your rendezvous to-night," continued the speaker,
nor write the promise which ambition, and not love, demands.
Evil eyes are upon you, lady — evil hands ready to work you ill.
The warrant is already signed for Seymour's arrest."

His arrest ? " faltered Elizabeth.

You cannot save him, but may share his ruin. Farewell, lady,"

added the speaker ; " my task is ended. Be faithful to yourself,
and let not a moment's weakness mar your fortunes."

The rest of the ladies were so astonished at the effect produced
both upon the princess and Lady Mortimer, that they feared to
make a trial of the merchant's skill, but suffered both him and his
companion to depart without further question. As soon as they
were gone, Elizabeth, under plea of indisposition, retired to
Hatfield House, where she immediately secluded herself from the
observation of her household to reflect upon the warning she had
received.

In the delightful grounds which surrounded the mansion stood
a species of labyrinth or grotto, adorned with shells and minerals
wrought into quaint devices. At the further end a fountain gave
an artificial coolness during the heat of summer to the recess, in
which Seymour and the thoughtless object of his passion were
accustomed to meet. In this grotto a pursuivant-alarms and a
dozen halberdiers had been for several hours concealed, when a
horseman, gallantly mounted, drew rein near the mouth of their
retreat. They had received their orders, and it seems their
instructions were not to secure the intruder alone. Warwick's
plan was to arrest the lovers at the very moment of their meeting.
The night, fortunately for their intentions, was a dark one, and
suited to their purpose.

Curse on this delay ! " exclaimed the impatient Seymour, after
he had paced for upwards of an hour the moss-covered floor of the
place of rendezvous. " What can have detained her ? Were
she once mine," he thought, *' I would throw off the mask, and
brave my serpent brother. Wedded to Elizabeth, the Reformers
would unhesitatingly throw themselves into my hands ; and so
supported, what might I not achieve ? The Protectorship — the
crown itself," he slowly added ; " for there are those who think
with me that Edward's life is worth but little purchase, and Mary's
title bad by her mother's most unholy marriage. Would she were
here I "

Scarcely had the aspiring lover — if lover he might be called
whose love was but a stepping-stone to his ambition — finished his
reflections, than a figure, dressed in white, and covered with a
thickly embroidered veil, was seen cautiously to approach the
grotto. Seymour no sooner beheld her than he exclaimed
Elizabeth ! " and instantly enfolded her in his embrace. Before
one word of warning or reproof could be uttered, the concealed
halberdiers, headed by the pursuivant, burst from their concealment,
and the latter, laying his hand upon the shoulder of the
noble, in the king's name arrested him. Knowing the fiery temper
of the man they had to deal with, the captors prudently disarmed
him before he recovered from his surprise ; and throwing a cloak
over his head, to drown his cries, should he attempt to call assistance,

they hurried him to a litter which they had left concealed
swithin the grove, and quietly left the domain of Hatfield for the
high road, where a troop of horse was waiting to escort them back
to London.

"Princess," said the pursuivant, bending the knee before the
veiled figure, " pardon me the office it is my duty to perform. You
are a prisoner."

I am no princess," replied the lady, haughtily, attempting at
the same time to pass him.

My orders," resumed the officer, intercepting her passage, " are
to arrest any lady whom I may find in company with the Lord
Seymour. Will it please you follow me ? "

This is some error ! " exclaimed the female, in a supplicating
voice ; " indeed it is an error ! Let me return to the house and I
will reward you amply. You will repent this," she added.

"Lady," said the officer, more than ever convinced of the high
rank of the speaker, " I am faithful. The order for your arrest is
sealed with the king's own seal, signed by his hand. Think you
without due warrant I had ventured to this extremity ? Force me
not, I beseech your grace, to use measures unworthy of your
dignity."

On a signal given by the speaker, a second litter was brought
from the wood, into which the reluctant lady was compelled to
enter, and the whole party started on their return, the pursuivant
fully satisfied that he had succeeded in the object of his mission
and captured both the lovers, an achievement for which he well
knew both the Protector and Warwick would liberally reward
him.

The following day he arrived with his prisoners at the Tower.
Seymour was instantly conveyed to the prison in the governor's
keep, and the second litter, with great mystery and respect, to the
royal lodgings.

It was whispered, as it passed, that it contained the Princess
Elizabeth.

"Poor thing ! " exclaimed an old warder, when he heard it ; "I
can well remember the ai-rival of her mother."

About noon on the following day, G'heapside was thrown into
confusion by the arrival of the king, who, attended by the Duke of
Somerset, Warwick, Cranmer, and the rest of the lords of the
council, was on his way to the Tower. Edward at this time was in
his fifteenth year, tall, and remarkably graceful for his years, and
highly popular with the citizens both on account of his youth and
the comparative mildness of his government, so different from the
iron rule of his father. The young king bitterly regretted the step
into which he had been betrayed by ordering the arrest of his
sister, and he evinced a determination to investigate the charges
against her himself — so unusual, that both Warwick and the protector

had cause for reflection. The lion's cub began to show that
in time it would be a lion too.

The monarch bowed gracefully to the acclamations of his
subjects as he passed along, and with a gallantry worthy of the
descendant of Edward the Fourth, doffed his plumed cap to the
fair ladies in the balconies, whence loving eyes darted their light
upon him, and gentle lips spoke blessings as he went.

On his arrival at the Tower, Sir William Kingston presented the
keys of the fortress on a golden salver ; the prince merely touched
them, in token of his sovereignty, then smilingly returned them,
observing, as he did so, that they could not be in more faithful
hands.

The proud Duke of Somerset was so thrown into the shade by
the royal bearing of his nephew, that he experienced a pang of
jealousy at the change, and instead of yielding to the assumption
of the monarch gracefully, he vented his spleen during the day by
endeavouring at every step to thwart him ; a proceeding as impolitic
as it was useless.

Our uncle seems in no very gracious humour," whispered the
king to Cranmer, as, leaning on his arm, he entered the council
chamber, where Seymour had been already brought.

Edward had come with the express intention of acting favourably
towards the unhappy man, whose violence, unfortunately for
himself, and fortunately for his enemies, broke forth at the very
first question put to him by the primate. On this his nephew at
once ordered him to be conveyed to his prison, and from henceforth
took little, if any, interest in his fate.

We have another prisoner to question here," observed
Warwick, as soon as Seymour had been removed ; " the Princess
Elizabeth."

Say rather an explanation to hear," interrupted Edward,
gravely ; for Elizabeth had ever been the favourite of his sisters.

"Here is the warrant for her apprehension," said Somerset,
pointing at the same time to the parchment bearing his own and
nephew's signature lying on the council table. The monarch
motioned to the primate to pass it to him. He read it carefully as
soon as he received it, and retained it in his hand.

A chair of state," he exclaimed to the governor of the Tower,
for our sister."

The supposed princess was introduced, still wearing her veil.
The council rose upon her entrance, and the king himself motioned
her to the seat which had been placed for her.

This is not the Princess Elizabeth," exclaimed the Earl of
Warwick, who had been scanning her figure narrowly ; " there is
some mistake here."

I told them so," said the lady ; " but no one would believe
me.'»

She threw aside her veil as she spoke, and discovered the features
of Lady Mortimer.

What means this mummery ? " coarsely demanded Somerset.
"Answer to me, or "

Answer to me," mildly interrupted Edward. " Rise, Lady
Mortimer. Our uncle is a soldier, and his manners savour somewhat
too rudely of the camp. Explain this mystery."

I was sent with this letter by my royal mistress."

Where ? "

To the grotto at Hatfield, sire."

Whom to give it to ? "

The Lord Seymour."

I see it all, sire," blandly exclaimed Warwick ; " this lady has
been mistaken for her grace. There still is time to execute the
warrant."

Had we not better read the letter first ? "

The letter, which was in the handwriting of Elizabeth, was
handed by Edward to the primate, who, hastily breaking the seal,
read aloud to the astonished council as follows : —

My Lord, — I thank you in all honesty for your good opinion of
me, which is doubtless flattering to one of my inexperience and
years. I neither accept nor decline it, referring myself in all
things touching the disposition of my unworthy hand to the
pleasure of my dear brother and sovereign lord, your master as well
as mine. Unless you come armed with his authority, my lord, to
Hatfield, come no more. " Elizabeth."

A prudent and a wise reply," added Cranmer, as he passed the
letter to the members of the council.

A juggling one," exclaimed Somerset, impatient that the
princess had eluded his snare ; " but it is not too late. Let a troop
of horsemen, with Sir William Kingston, start this veryTiour for
Hatfield. We have other evidence, and "

Let them not stir," said Edward, rising and tearing the
warrant into several pieces ; " our sister is absolved in our
judgment."

But not in mine," interrupted the imprudent duke.

Edward eyed him for a few moments with an air of cold surprise ;
and, for the first time perhaps, the idea struck him that he should
like to throw off the tutelage of both his uncles. Warwick watched
the glance, and was not slow to profit by it.

We have heard the expression of his highnesses pleasure," he
exclaimed ; " my lords, the council, I presume, is ended."

Then did the first doubt of Warwick enter the mind of tir
Protector.

CHAPTER XXV.

This is no natural sleep ; some cruel hand
Hath nipped the bud ere it became a flower ;
Stifled the goodly promises of youth
E'en in their sweet unfolding.

The Protector having called a Session of Parliament, it was
resolved to proceed against Lord Seymour by bill of attainder ; and
the young king, whom his uncle's violence and imprudence had
disgusted, was, without much difficulty, induced to give his assent
to the proceeding, an approbation upon which the peers laid much
weight. The matter was first brought before the Upper House,
and several nobles rose in their places, and gave an account of what
they knew concerning the intentions of the accused ; his criminal
projects, words, and actions. These narratives, framed, for the
most part, on violated confidences or vague suspicions, were,
through the influence of "Warwick, received as so much legal
evidence ; and, although the prisoner had formerly many partisans
and friends in that august assembly, not one of them had the
courage or honesty to move that he should be heard in his defence,
or that he should be confronted with the witnesses. A little more
scruple was made in the House of Commons, where all our battles
for the civil rights of England were ultimately fought. There
were even some members who objected against the whole method
of proceeding by bill of attainder, and insisted that a formal trial
should be given to every man before his condemnation. Soon
after, on the 20th of March, the following month, a message was
sent by the king, commanding the House to proceed upon the same
evidence as the House of Peers. The Commons were induced to
acquiesce. The Bill passed in a full House with not more than
ten dissentient voices.

The sentence was afterwards executed upon Tower Hill, and the
warrant signed by the criminal's own brother, Somerset, who was
universally execrated for the unnatural proceeding.

The state of England at this time was anything but peaceful.
Murmurs and complaints were common among the people.
The general increase also of gold and silver in Europe, after the
discoveries of Columbus and his companions, had a tendency to
influence these complaints. The growing demand in more commercial
countries had heightened everywhere the price of commodities
which could rarely be transported thither. But in
England the labour of men who could not so easily change their
markets remained at the ancient rates, and the poor complained
bitterly that they could no longer obtain a subsistence by their
industry. The Protector, who loved popularity and pitied the
condition of the people, encouraged these complaints by the very

steps he took to redress them. He appointed a Commission for
making an inquiry concerning inclosures, and issued a proclamation
ordering all the late ones to be laid open by a certain day.
The populace meeting such countenance from the Government,
rose in several places, and committed great excesses ; and, under
pretence that the Commission would be eluded, sought for a
remedy for their complaints by force of arms.

The rising began in several parts of England, as if a universal
conspiracy had been formed by the commonalty.

A few days before the insurrection broke out, Walter and Mary
had, after an absence of many years, returned to Norwich, and
taken possession of the humble but comfortable abode of their old
friend Steadman, who felt prouder on the day which enabled him
to offer a home to his master's child, than if a kingly sword had
dubbed him a knight upon the field of battle. One chief object of
the visit to Norfolk was to abstract, if possible, from the muniment
room at Cranfield certain papers, the possession of which, in happier
times, might restore the children of the heiress to their mother's
lost inheritance.

It was market-day, and vast quantities of wool were exposed to
the buyers or agents, who regularly attended to purchase it for the
foreign manufacturer. The wives of the poorer classes wandered
through the then unpaved square, with discontented looks, but
little food was exposed for sale. Turn where they would, they
found nothing but wool — wool ; while the poor creatures required
bread — bread.

Pass on, gossips ! pass on ! " exclaimed Mike Maze, the burly
tax-collector, who, escorted by a couple of halberdiers, was
receiving the Corporation dues ; " this is not the flesh-market ! "

We know that as well as you do," said several of the women,

Oh ! do you ? " replied the functionary ; " then clear the way,
and don't interrupt me in the execution of nip' duty ; the corn-market
lies at the other end of the church ; off with you ! "

And where are we to get money to buy bread with ? " demanded
several ; " and it such a price ? "

Or bread to buy, even if we had the money ? " added another ;
England is turned into a sheep-walk ! "

Would I had been born a sheep ! " cried a hump-backed little
tailor, whose lean appearance showed that he had long been a
stranger to good food, or else that it had been thrown away upon
him ; " I should be well fed then, and taken care of."

That's a seditious wish," observed the collector with disgust,
for his stomach absolutely recoiled at the idea of Bumpy Jem, the
cognomen by which the half-starved tailor was generally known,
being converted into a sheep, an animal for certain portions of
which he had great respect ; " but you were always an ambitious
rascal, and ought to be punished."

VOL. II. C C 2

What ! for wishing to be a sheep ? " demanded the offender,
who was the wit of the mob.

Certainly."

What, then, do you deserve," added the tailor with a grin,
whose offence so much exceeds mine ? "

How so ? " said the functionary ; " how so ? "

In wishing all your life to be a calf, and having been one
without knowing it."

The burst of applause which followed this retort of poor Bumpy
Jem told that the jest was relished, and excited the ire of the
collector to a furious pitch. Snatching the partisan from the hand
of one of his attendants, he struck the poor fellow a violent blow
over the head with it ; the stroke was followed by blood ; and the
poor little hunchback measured his length upon the ground.

Shame ! shame ! " exclaimed the women, raising him ; " that's
a foul blow."

Mike Maze was about to repeat the outrage, when a burly, thickset
man, in the dress of a respectable tradesman, sprang through
the mob and wrenched the weapon from his hand.

Bravo, Ket — bravo ! Down with him ! the tunbelly — down
with him ! "

The remaining officer was about to use his halberd, when a stone
thrown by some unseen hand struck him on the temple. The blow
was fatal ; with a groan the instrument of tyranny fell a corpse in
the market-place. The collector and the disarmed companion of
the dead man fled. For the space of a minute there was a breathless
pause amongst the crowd of idlers whom the dispute had attracted
to the spot. Ket looked pale but determined ; he knew that he had
long made himself obnoxious to the authorities by his advocacy of
the people, and that the whole weight of their resentment would
fall on him. It was a relief, therefore, vsdien one loud hearty cheer
from the populace told him that the action was approved.

The news spread like wild-fire through the market-place.
Bumpy Jem had hitherto been the people's fool, their wit, and
sometimes their counsellor. Wounded and bleeding, he now
appeared to them as their martyr. Some of the men began to
quietly break up the stalls for weapons ; many of the women ran
screaming through the streets, so that in an inconceivably short
space of time a report was spread that an insurrection, headed by
Ket the tanner, had broken out before he had even thought of
defence.

Friends," he exclaimed, '' patience has its limits. Are we to be
trampled like dust beneath our proud masters' feet, or show ourselves
like men ? "

We will — we will ! " choruses the mob.

"A crisis has arrived — nothing like meeting danger boldly."

Nothing — nothing ! " echoed his admirers.

Always take the bull by the horns, Robert," quietly observed
his brother, who was a butcher, a fellow of the most stolid temperament,
and strongly attached to his more sanguine relative,

Strike, then," exclaimed the bold, adventurous man, " for jour
birthright — your fair share in the soil of England. The poor man's
farm — the common — is inclosed. Why should the noble's chase
be more respected ? Your honest labour — the means which God
hath given you to repair the injustice of your fellow man — is
rendered valueless ; the fields remain untilled, the land unsown.
"Wool, wool ! ' is the noble's cry. Let him not complain if the
people answer, ' Bread ! ' "

Hurrah ! " cried the now excited mob ; " our cry is bread — bread
for our wives and children."

Meet me, then, at Wymondham. There let us throw down the
in closures and encamp ; it will give the starving peasant and the
labourer an opportunity to rally round us. Shut up within the
walls of Norwich, we are powerless."

"But wee can return," exclaimed Bumpy Jem, who had recovered
from the blow which was the original cause of the tumult, " and
crack the walls of the city like a hazel nut."

And roast the kernel," added a voice in the crowd.

"We will return," resumed the orator, "clad in the people's
strength and the justice of their cause. Away at once : here we
may be crushed. In the city we are within the grasp of a pigmy's
glove ; in the country a giant's hand were powerless. Remember
our cry — ' God and the commons ! ' "

God and the commons ! " repeated the people ; and in a few
minutes the market-place was cleared. During the daj the unemployed
workmen and the discontented of every class poured in one
continuous stream through St. Stephen's Gate on their way to
Wymondham. The authorities were paralysed, and the city was
morally lost before the enemy returned to attack it.

The rebels — for such, we presume, they must be called — occupied
themselves for several days in throwing open the inclosed lands,
and burning, wherever they found them, the farmers' and the
nobles' stocks of wool, which, as the rents were not unfrequently
paid in kind, were often considerable.

Their numbers at last became so vast, that they decided on
something further than the throwing open of the commons —
restoring the old religious establishments, the loss of which, before
the establishment of poor-laws, was so severely felt by the poorer
classes. As the first step to their design, it was agreed the following
morning to attack the city. Wymondham, where the insurgents
were encamped, our readers will recollect, is close to the old domain
of Cranfield.

The moon was shining clearly, darting its silver rays through the
green foliage, and lighting at broken intervals the mossy glade,

along which three horsemen were quietly wending their way.
The foremost was onr old acquaintance Patch, his companions
Walter and Steaduian.

How beautifully," observed the younger of the three, " the
moon holds forth her lamp to light us on our way ! "

Say rather, like a coquette dealing out her smiles and f rowTis ;
for several times a black cloud, like the veil of a Spanish beauty,
has obscured her visage, and caused my steed t'o stumble."

Give me a dark night, especially when I know my ground,"
observed the old soldier ; " the moon, like the lovely dames you
speak of, has betrayed many a gallant fellow to death. I ask for
no better light than the glow-worm's lamp to-night."

"Why so, old Honesty ? " demanded the jester.

We are too near the rebels," replied the veteran, " to render it
either desirable or safe ; and the less we converse the better. We
shall soon reach the hall ; let us ride on in silence."

It was seen that the caution was not a vain one, for the little
part' had not proceeded many paces further before the were
challenged by the rough voice of a sentinel, demanding with an
affectation of military discipline :

Who goes there ? "

Minions of the moon," was the jester's quick reply.

That's not the word," replied the insurgent ; " shall I shoot
him, Jem ? "

No," replied the sharp voice of the hunchback ; " let's take
them prisoners."

But there are three," urged his companion.

The greater the honour," said the tailor, at the same time
emerging from the underwood, where, with his comrade, he had
been concealed, and confronting the party as they advanced down
the glade. " Stand ! "

In whose name .' " inquired Walter.

The people's."

A momentary' halt took place, and the three travellers, inwardly
cursing the interruption, hastily consulted what would be the best
course to pursue, Avhen a shrill whistle rang through the wood.
It was answered, although at considerable distances, on every side,
and in a few minutes various bodies of men, armed with scythes,
bows, and roughly-formed pikes, were seen emerging in every
direction from the underwood. Resistance would have been
useless ; it was plain they vv^ere surrounded by the insurgents, and
completely in their power.

Three of the enemy," exclaimed Ket the butcher, who was one
of the leaders.

Spies," echoed the band. " String them up to the loftiest oak."

The lowest of these might answer," interrupted Patch, pointing,
at the same time, to the superb forest of trees on either side. " But

before you proceed to extremities, ask yourselves one question, my
good fellows."

*' What is that ? " exclaimed their captors.

What good will it do you ? Our purses are not very heavy ;
but, such as they are, you are welcome to them. Our steeds may
serve to mount your cavalry," he added, with an imperceptible
sneer ; " and as for our skins, although your leader is a tanner, he
would hardly wish you to hang us for the sake of them."

That's more than I'll answer for," replied the butcher.

At least," observed Walter, " let him decide for himself."

After a few moments' consultation, it was arranged that the
prisoners should be conducted to the hall, where Robert Ket had
taken up his quarters ; for, like most popular leaders, as soon as he
became formidable, he aped the state he had previously denounced.
It is astonishing how very seldom patriotism can stand the test of
success.

And where are you taking us to ? " demanded Steadman, as
they urged the horses of the captives onward.

To Cranfield," was the reply.

To Cranfield," said the old soldier, his countenance suddenly
brightening up — " with all my heart ; there are worse places to
pass the night in than Cranfield, at least to my thinking."

By his companions in misfortune this was understood as a secret
encouragement to them not to despair, and the event proved that
they were not wrong in their supposition.

In the great hall of the old mansion was a fire composed of
fragments of carved benches and broken furniture, which had
hastily been piled together, to spare the insurgents the trouble of
cutting fuel : as in most cases of popular commotion, the men who
were in arms for their own rights respected very little those of
others. Sheep and deer, half-skinned and mangled in an uncrafts-
manlike manner, were lying piled together in different parts of the
hall, some of the carcases serving as pillows for the drunken,
sleepy patriots ; others were busy in furbishing up partisans and
weapons from the armoury, which neglect and long disuse rendered
unfit for service.

Robert Ket, the leader of this motley band, was pacing with
moody strides before the blazing fire when his prisoners were
introduced. He had heard from sure intelligence that the Marquis
of Northampton, with a considerable body of troops, had been
despatched against him. This nobleman had just returned from
the relief of Exeter, which had been besieged by the rebels. Therein
conjunction with Lord Gray and Batista Spinosa, leader of the
German horse in the English pay, he had defeated the insurgents,
and hanged one of their leaders, the Catholic vicar of St. Thomas,
from the steeple of his own church, arrayed in his vestments. He
threatened to do the same with Robert Ket. The threat was fulfilled,

although the marquis did not live to witness it. These and
other circumstances had induced the chief of the rebels to march
at once to Norwich.

"Who are these ? " he demanded of Bumpy Jem and his companions,
as they marshalled the captives before him.

Prisoners," replied the hunchback, at the same time making a
ludicrous effort to salute the tanner in a military style.

Where taken ? "

In the chase of Cranfield."

Where, I presume," interrupted Walter, " none will dispute my
right to ride, when it is remembered that I am the husband of the
heiress of its ancient lords."

We'll have no lords," said one of the men. " The land is for
those who till it."

We'll be our own lords," exclaimed the hunchback, with a
gravity which produced a smile upon the features of the jester,
despite the critical position in which he and his companions stood.

Aire you Walter Lucas ? " demanded Ket, walking close to our
hei'o, and scanning him narrowly.

<'Iam."

What proof can you give ? "

Proof ! " exclaimed the old soldier ; " I'll vouch for him. You
know me, Master Ket, and no man who does that ever could accuse
John Steadman of a lie. This is Walter Lucas, our lady's husband."

And where is your lady ? " continued their interrogator.

In London with her family," replied the jester, whose conscience
was not quite so susceptible as the veteran's.

That's bad," said the tanner ; " her presence here would have
had great influence with the people. Still you may, perchance,
serve the cause as well. We require men of experience," he added ;
practical men. We have thews and limbs enough, but lack the
skill to train them. You and the old soldier both have served,
and "

Hear me," replied Walter ; " much as I feel for the wrongs of
the commons, violence and bloodshed are not the means to redress
them. Let not the flush of a first and last success deceive you."

And what are the means ? " exclaimed the tanner sternly.
To crouch like slaves and lick the armed heel which treads the
life-blood from a land — crushes the cottage while it respects the
palace ; to wait with hound-like patience till the insatiate maw of
our oppressors is so gorged with victims that repletion leaves the
v.'orn helot a moment's time to breathe. You are not the first from
v/hom I've heard such doctrines. Wilt thou join us .'' "

Never ! " exclaimed the captive firmly.

A low murmur rose amongst the men. It is astonishing, when
once unchained, how soon our passions lead us to cruelty. The
taste of blood and plunder which the rebels had enjoyed increased

their appetite for more ; they were like young tigers, Who just
began to feel that they had claws and fangs, and longed to use
them.

At least," said Patch, with a look of caution, " you will consider
of the offer. Remember you, too, have suffered by the tyranny of
Edward and his father. You have wrongs to avenge, rights to
assert, and a triumphant people are, as history proves, sure to be
gtrcte/ul.^'

The sneer which the last words conveyed — if even the look had
been wanting — convinced our hero that the. speaker's real object
was to procrastinate and obtain time or opportunity for escape.
He determined to follow it, but did not think it prudent to appear
to j'ield too soon.

Give me a few hours to reflect," he cried.

"To escape, you mean," replied the tanner, with a frown.

If you think that," interrupted Steadman, " place us in the
chamber of the warder's tower ; there is not a loophole in it that a
well-fed cat could creep through, and the door is of solid iron.
Doubt not but by the morning you will find him reasonable."

"Be it so," said the leader ; " the people give you till tomorrow."

Good," observed Patch ; " the people are always generous."

Hear ! " cried several of the rustics near him. " Give him a
flask of wine," added another, " from the cellar we plundered at
Comtesse'. He is an excellent patriot."

You mistake, friend," said the jester, taking the proffered gift
from the hand of the speaker ; " / am only a philosopher's

I suppose you don't mean to starve us ? " exclaimed Steadman.

The appeal was met by huge pieces of meat being stuffed into
the hands of the speaker ; the donors kindly assuring him that if
they hanged him in the morning they would at least feed him
to-night.

So important did the leader of the insurgents deem the safekeeping
of his prisoners, that he accompanied them himself to the
warder's tower, the upper chamber of which was without even a
window to admit the light of day, and the inhabitants were only
enabled to breathe from the air supplied by the narrow loopholes
in the walls. After satisfying himself of the security of his
captives, Ket turned the key in the massive lock of the iron door,
thrust it into his bosom, and left them to their reflections.

You have selected an agreeable lodging, old friend," exclaimed
"Walter, after he had paced for a few minutes up and down the
chamber.

At any rate, a secure one," quietly replied Steadman.

The jester, in his turn, was somewhat puzzled ; he had carefully
examined the walls, and convinced himself that there was no secret
passage, or hidden means of egress, as he at first suspected ; still
there was a cheerful look about the old soldier in which he trusted.

STAKFiJKL,JJ HALL.

Secure enough," repeated our hero ; " the butchers will find us
in the pen tomorrow when they seek us."

Doubtless, master," said the aged follower ; " but the difficulty
will be to get into the pen tomorrow."

"What mean you 1 "

My life on it," said Patch, " but Steadman winds them still."

The faithful servitor of the former lord of Cranfield led his companions
towards the door, which, as we before stated, was of iron,
and locked in a frame of the same material, the whole of which
was apparently a fixture in the masonry'. "We say apparently, for
on pressing certain knobs in the lock, the door, frame and all, sank
in the grooves cut in the solid wall beneath, and a second door and
frame descended from corresponding grooves cut in the wall above :
the only difference was this, that the massive lock and bars which
fastened them on the first door were on the outside, but on the
second they were placed within.

A contrivance worthy of the Medici," said the jester, struck by
the ingenuity of the arrangement.

"Af least, it has well served our turn," added Walter.

The coarse jests and loud mirth of the rebels, as they became
gorged with the strong ale, wine, and mead plundered from the
neighbouring nobles, had been for some time lulled to rest before
the three captives ventured to release themselves from their prison,
and, guided by Steadman, descend to the muniment-room, where
they found, amid the fragments of papers, books, and parchments,
the precious charters which conferred the lands originally upon
the ancestors of the Lady Mary, William the Conqueror's confirmation
of them, as well as those of the succeeding Norman kings.

The great purport of their visit being accomplished, fearful of
detection, they left the house as secretly as possible, and finding
horses in the chase, returned to Norwich, from whence they started
again at an early hour to London, long before the rebels thought of
advancing towards the city.

On the following day Ket and his followers took possession of
Monkshold Heath, near the city, and there held a species of
tribunal under an oak, which for many ages after was known as
the Oak of Reformation ; from which place he summoned the
gentry to appear before him, and issued decrees as impolitic as they
were ridiculous and cruel. On the heath was a noble mansion,
called Mount Surrey, which the Earl of Surrey had built on the
priory of St. Leonard's. This was seized, plundered of its contents,
and converted into a prison ; the priory chapel, which the earl had
previously changed into a dovecote, Alas burnt, and its ruins still
go by the popular name of Ket's Castle.

During the time which the chief and his followers remained in
their camp, seemingly without any definite purpose, a constant
intercourse was kept up between the insurgents and the city, the

Mayor of which had been several times summoned before the Oak
of Reformation, where, as Fuller quaintly remarks, justice was so
religicftisly administered, that one of the city vicars was compelled
to read morning and evening prayers to men whose hands were
red with blood. All the deer in the neighbouring parks were
brought to the camp, and so plentiful was the supply of other meat,
that a fat sheep sold for fourpence ; twenty thousand, it is said,
were consumed in a few days. While they were thus spending
their time in feasting and rioting, the authorities were equally
neglectful. The council at first only sent a herald with an offer of
pardon if they would disperse ; nor was it till the Marquis of
Northampton, at the head of an army of fifteen hundred men, had
been defeated, and Lord Sheffield slain by the rebels, that serious
measures were adopted, and the Earl of Warwick (who was about
departing with an army to renew the war with Scotland), sent to
Norwich instead, whither he arrived, and encamped in the marketplace.
For a while the good fortune which had hitherto attended
the insurgents followed them ; the whole of the ammunition
belonging to the royal army fell into their hands, and shortly after
they succeeded in capturing the artillery also. The earl was now
obliged to shut himself up in the city, and defend himself by
fortifying the gates, streets, lanes, and dykes, in the best manner
he was able. Some of his officers were urgent that he should quit
the city as untenable, but Warwick replied that he would do so
only with his life, and compelled his captains, in accordance with
an ancient custom observed in times of great danger, to kiss each
others' swords and vow to defend the place and each other to the
last extremity. The next day a reinforcement of fourteen hundred
men, consisting of a Swiss regiment and veterans, arrived, and tljp
general resolved upon attacking the rebels in their camp.

But Ket did not wait for the attack. An ancient prophecy, said
to be of ancient date, was circulated amongst his followers to
animate their courage. To this day it is repeated by village gossips
and aged crones. It ran thus :

The country {]fnoffes, Hob, Dick, and Hick,
With clubs and clouted shoon,

Shall fill the vale

Of Dussin's dale
With slaughtered bodies soon."

Either trusting the prediction, which was first delivered to him
by an old woman renowned for her skill in herbs and spells, or
desirous of availing himself of the enthusiasm it had excited
amongst his followers, Ket resolved to quit his vantage-ground and
attack the enemy. It was on the 27th of August that the rebels
marched from Monkshold Heath into the adjacent dale, where they
made hasty preparations for battle by cutting a ditch and planting
stakes in front of their position.

The Swiss troops commenced the attack by a furious charge, in
which several of the most important citizens, who had been
detained as hostages by Ket, and inhumanly placed, bound, In the
van, were killed. The insurgents were beaten after the first
charge of the cavalry, and the battle became a mere scene of flight
and slaughter. About three thousand were slain in the pursuit,
Ket fled so swiftly that his horse broke down at the end of a few
miles ; he was recognised by the servants of a house where he took
refuge, and, together with his brother, delivered into the hands of
the triumphant Warwick. Many of the prisoners were hanged upon
the Oak of Reformation, and forty-nine hanged and quartered in the
market-place ; altogether three hundred were sacrificed, to strike
terror to the hearts of others.

In the council-chamber, which had been hastily fitted up in
Norwich Castle, were assembled, besides the victorious Warwick,
the principal leaders of his army, the captains of the foreign
mercenaries, the mayor and gentry of the city, and a mixed crowd
of citizens and civilians. Strongly guarded and heavily chained
were two captives — the butcher and the tanner. Dick, the former,
retained his usual impassibility of feature ; the latter, on the
contrary, like most men of sanguine temperament who experience
violent reverses, was completely" crushed by his misfortune. Vainly
his companion tried to cheer him.

Do what they will to us, brother," he whispered, " it can't last
long ; we have only so much life to be expended — so much blood
to shed ; and even if they take it drop by drop, it must come to an
end at last."

"True," sighed Robert.
" I never knew," continued the comforter, " an ox linger more
than ten minutes ; and I don't think I am half as strong as an ox."

The speaker's well-meant consolations were interrupted by the
Earl of Warwick, who proceeded at once to the purpose for which
the prisoners had been brought before him — namely, to sentence
them to death — a death so fearful, that its horror almost redeems
the madness of their crime.

Rebels and traitors," he began, " the hand of outraged authority
at last is raised to avenge society, religion, and all that is estimable
in the great social compact which binds mankind together. Yours
have been no common crimes, and you shall meet no common
doom. Alive shall you both be hanged in an iron frame — one
from the keep of Norwich Castle, the other from the spire of
Wymondham Church — a warning to all traitors."

An example," added Ket, whose energy the indignation which
he felt at the barbarity' of his sentence had revived — " an example
to all future martyrs for the people's rights. The chattering crow
may perch upon my swinging bones, and, as the night Avind whistles
through them, contented tyranny rejoice mj spirit's fled : it will

but cheat itself. In every groan of my creaking fetters that spirit
shall revive, and children through future ages mark the spot where,
like an avenging beacon placed on high, the poor man's martyr
died."

Silence him ! " exclaimed Warwick.

You cannot silence time," replied the prisoner. " Think of me,
earl, when thine own hour shall come."

On a signal from the earl, the two brothers where secured by a
party of the Swiss soldiery, and dragged from the council-chamber
to the courtyard of the castle, where the elder Ket, who was to
suffer at Wyraondham, was bound hand and foot with cords, and
cast, like a sack of wheat, over the back of a trooper's horse ; in
which fashion, amidst the derision of the soldiery and the jeers of
the multitude, he was conveyed to the place of execution.

Good-bye, Robert ! " he exclaimed ; " I have a rough ride before
me ; but the longest journey has an end, and we shall meet again
at last."

His brother would have kissed him, but the foreign mercenaries
would not allow him even that consolation. In this world they
never met again.

By Warwick's orders a strong iron frame had been prepared,
large enough to hold the body of a man in an upright position, but
not sufficiently roomy to permit him to turn. A chain was attached
to the cross-bar at the top by means of a swivel, so that the infernal
contrivance could be hung from the walls of the castle, and turn
as it swung in the night air.

Ket gazed upon his living tomb with an unmoved countenance,
and submitted, with a look of resignation, to be stripped by the
executioners to his hose, which was no sooner done than they
thrust him into the iron frame, and riveted the bars in front so
firmly, that it would have required the blow of a sledge hammer
to break them. No sooner was the victim inclosed, than Warwick
and the members of the council descended into the courtyard.
The preparations were complete. '

'• Now, traitor," exclaimed the cruel earl, "dost thou repent thy
treason ?"

I repent my sins," replied the unhappy Ket, " but I go to a
Judge more merciful than thou art."

Up with the villain ! "

"We shall meet again," shrieked the victim; " be it thy terror
here to know that Ave shall meet again. When the headsman's
stroke shall sunder the thread of thy polluted life, and thy scared
soul shall yell before the Judgment-seat for mercy, thy victim's
voice shall drown the cry, deafening the ear of Pity. Monster !
the curse of blood is on thy soul — coward as cruel — fiend ! "

The fearful denunciations of the speaker ceased to be heard, as
the frightful machine in which he was confined rose to the level

of the lofty battlements, to which it was drawn by a party of men
who were stationed on the walls. Here the end of the chain Alas
passed over a thick iron bar, which bar was again cemented into
the solid stonework. For many hours not a cry escaped the victim,
but as the day wore on the pangs of thirst became dreadful, and
his groans were distinctly heard. Horror chained many of the
spectators, who were assembled within the inclosed space between
the moats, like statues to the spot. The shrieks of the sufferer at
last became so terrific that the people fled, and even the obscene
night-bird which had been fluttering near, impatient of its prey,
lazily flapped its heavy wings and retired, scared from its living
banquet.

By this time it was midnight, and the earl, wrapped in a horseman's
cloak, issued quietly and stealthily from a small postern
opposite the drawbridge. No sentinel challenged him as he passed,
for it was an order given to the guard that all who either left or
arrived by that postern should pass unquestioned. When on the
bridge, Warwick paused, and cast a cold, ferocious glance upon his
victim, who still swung in the night air, and whose occasional
shrieks startled the soldier on his lonely rounds.

The headsman ? — no, no," he muttered, alluding to Ket's prediction,
which had made a deeper impression on him than he chose
to acknowledge. " I will at least provide against that. I play a
bold, and consequently a dangerous game, but it shall never lead
me to the scaffold."

So thought the speaker's father, Dudley the extortioner, as he
was called, and both were alike deceived.

The earl made his way cautiously to a small stone cottage, built
out of the ruins of the monastery of Grey Friars, which were
scattered about at random over the piece of land formerly the
convent close. This was a locality carefully avoided by the
superstitious citizens, especially at night ; for the inmate, an aged
woman, known by the name of Mother Alice, was supposed to hold
communication with the beings of another world. In her intercourse
with those who sought her — and they were neither few nor
poor who did so — she conducted herself more like a priestess of
some long-forgotten superstition, than a simple vendor of poisons,
drugs, and medicines ; for it was generally believed that all the
three might be bought of Alice by those who could pay down the
sum she asked for her doubtful ministry. The only inmates besides
herself of the lonely hut was a raven, superstitiously believed to
be a familiar spirit, although, to judge from its appearance, it was
nothing more than an ordinary bird, and a brindled cat.

Enter ! " exclaimed a deep voice, as Warwick knocked with the
handle of his dagger on the oaken door. " Enter, if you come in
the name of sin and despair."

What if I come in the name of Heaven, dame ? " replied the earl.

Then you have mistaken your road. Pass on — pass on ; for
sin and sorrow only visit here."

There was something so peculiarly sad in the speaker's tone,
that the visitor resolved at once to speak with her, and, raising the
rude latch, entered the house.

'i Croak — croak," went the voice of the raven, and the bird,
generally so bold to all visitors, retreated at once to its usual
resting-place. Dame Alice started to her feet.

The cottage was so dark that the visitor could scarcely distinguish
the person of its mistress ; she seemed like an ill-defined shadow,
flitting between him and the rude species of stone hearth on which
a fire of wood was, or rather had been, burning ; for the red embers
only remained, and cast a sickly, uncertain light around.

"What would the Earl of Warwick with me ? " demanded the
mistress of the house.

You know me, mother ? "

Yes," said the woman, " as you do me — by fame ? "

Fame ! "

"Ay, we have both our reputations," added the hag, with a sneer,
and both alike are evil."

'Tis well," said her visitor. " I would have a draught which
at a soldier's need might defeat the malice of his enemies — place
death between him and the headsman's office. Dost understand
me, mother .? "

Ay," groaned the woman.

Wilt serve my will in this ? "

He heard the mistress of the cottage moving about the floor, and
occasionally a dark shadow passed between him and the faint light
which the red embers gave. At last an arm from the mass of thick
drapery which screened her figure was extended towards him : in
the hand was a small phial.

Take it," said the woman ; " but do not touch me, as you value
your life."

He took the phial, and cast a purse of money upon the table.

Keep thy gold," said the woman. " In serving thee I serve
myself."

Hast thou no other poison ? " demanded the earl ; " one of a
nature so subtile that, dropped upon a flower or kerchief, it would
war with life, nor quit the contest till victorious ? "

Ay," said the sorceress, "one^i for a king to fall hy.''''

Give it me," said the speaker, eagerly, " and I will pay thee
for it ten times more than for the first.

Take it," again exclaimed the woman, " and now begone. We
shall meet again — once again — and then, my lord, both our careers
will be near their close."

What mean you, hag ? "

The woman cast a handful of some perfumed wood upon the

fire, and in an instant the cottage of the medicine was filled no*
only with a sweet perfume, but illuminated by a light so intense
that every nook and corner became distinctly visible ; and, to
Warwick's terror and surprise, he discovered in the woman the
mother of the boy whom he had so brutally slain on the night of
the Princess Mary's escape from Kimbolton.

Murderer ! " she shrieked, " thy career will soon be ended — my
boy will be avenged."

The earl rushed upon her with his sword, which he had hastily
drawn, when she darted on one side, and, seizing a species of staff,
struck a violent blow upon an earthen globe suspended over the
fire. The vessel was shivered into a thousand fragments, and the
contents fell upon the blazing embers. In an instant the hut was
filled with a vapour so intense, that Warwick was blinded by its
effects, and wildly struck at random. When the mist dispersed,
he was alone within the cottage — the hag was gone.

CHAPTER XXVI.

Warwick's success against the rebels considerably increased his
interest With the Court party, whom the pride and arrogance of
Somerset had gradually disgusted ; for no sooner had he obtained
the patent which invested him with the exercise of the regal
authority, than he ceased to pay attention to the other executors
and councillors of the king's will. All. who were not devoted to
him were certain to be neglected, and whoever opposed his views
were sure to be treated with neglect and contempt. Unfortunately,
while he thus manifested a resolution to govern everything his
own way, .his capacity did not appear proportioned to his ambition.
Warwick, more subtle and artful, concealed his dangerous views
under fairer appearances. He still professed himself the friend of
the man whose downfall he vas secretly plotting ; and having
associated himself with the Earl of Southampton, he formed a
strong party, who were determined to free themselves from the
yoke of the Protector.

Although Somerset courted the people, the interest which he
had aroused in them was in no degree answerable to his expectations.
The Catholic party, Who retained influence with the lower
classes, were his declared enemies, and took advantage of eveiw
opportunity to decry his conduct. The attainder and execution of
his brother bore an odious aspect. The introduction of foreign
troops into the kingdom was represented in invidious colours ; and
the great estate which he had suddenly acquired, at the expense of
the Church and Crown, rendered him obnoxious. But the final
blow to his popularity was given by the magnificent palace which

he was imprudently building. Three bishops' houses and the
parish church of St. Mary were pulled down to furnish materials
for the structure. Not content with the first sacrilege, he ordered
St. Margaret's, Westminster, to be demolished in order to employ
the stones for the same purpose ; but the parishioners rose in
tumult, and drove away the workmen. He next laid his hands
upon a chapel in St. Paul's Churchyard, with a cloister and
charnel-house annexed to it ; and these edifices, together with the
singular old church of St. John of Jerusalem, were made use of to
raise his palace. What rendered the matter more odious to the
people was, that the tombs and other monuments of the dead were
defaced, and the bones carried away to be buried in consecrated
ground. These proceedings gave such disaffection in the City, that
remonstrances were made ; and the council, emboldened by assurances
of support from the principal nobility, proceeded at once to
assert their authority. They sent for the lord mayor and aldermen
of London, and commanded them to obey their authority, without
any regard to Somerset. They laid the same injunction on the
Lieutenant of the Tower, who expressed his resolution to obey them.

No sooner did the Protector hear of the disaffection of the council
and the City than he removed the young king from Hampton Court
to Windsor Castle , and arming his friends and retainers, resolved to
defend himself against all his enemies. But finding that no man of
rank, except Cranmer and Paget, adhered to him, he lost all hopes of
success, and began to apply to his foes for pardon and forgiveness.

No sooner was this despondency known, than Lord Russell and
the Speaker of the House of Commons abandoned him. The latter
was bound to him by many obligations ; and the former meanly
sold him for the earldom of Bedford and a grant of abbey lands,
which degraded himself by receiving at the hands of his enemies.
Such is the unworthy origin of the vast fortunes of the house of
Bedford. Warwick had thrown off the mask, and gone too far to
recede. The council, under his direction, sent dutiful letters to the
king, complaining that his uncle, whom they had created Protector
on condition that he consented to be guided by their advice, had
usurped the whole authority of the realm ; that he had, in levying
forces against them, and placing them round the person of the king,
been guilty of treason. These letters made a considerable impression
on the youthful mind of Edward, whose cold manner to his uncle
indicated to all about him that the hour of his disgrace had arrived.

Seeing that in the disaffection of his nephew his last stay was gone,
Somerset resigned the Protectorship, and was immediately committed
to the Tower. Articles of impeachment were drawn up and
exhibited against him ; and while that haughty, weak, ambitious
man was a lonely prisoner in the very cell which had held his
brother captive, his daring rival Warwick was raised to the dignity
of Duke of Northumberland ; the last earl of that name, and first
VOL. II. D D 2

lover of Anne Boleyn, having died without issue, and his brother,
Sir Thomas Percy, being attainted for his share in the Yorkshire
rebellion in the late reign.

Somerset was brought to trial before the Marquis of Winchester
created high steward — and a jury of twenty-seven peers. He
was acquitted on the charge of treason, but condemned to death
for felony, in having conspired against the lives of the council,
and executed on the 22nd of January, 1552.

No sooner had Northumberland, as we must now style him,
obtained the supreme direction of affairs, than it was observed by
the attendants of the young king that his health began gradually
to decline. This might have proceeded from innate weakness of
constitution ; but men began to whisper and assert strange things,
not openly, indeed, but under the seal of confidence, which rendered
them more terrible.

It was not till the strength of the monarch, both mental and
physical, was undermined that the new-made duke ventured to
broach the grand scheme which had been the object of so many
years of treachery and scheming. He gradually represented to the
prince that his two sisters, Mary and Elizabeth, had both of them
been declared illegitimate by Parliament ; and that, although Henry
had restored them to their place in the succession by his will, the
nation would never consent to see a bastard seated on the throne.
That the inevitable consequence of Mary's succession would be the
return of the nation to the Church of Rome ; that of the young
Queen of Scots to make England a province of France, in consequence
of her betrothment to the Dauphin ; in fact, that these
princesses were both legally and morally excluded, and that the
legitimate heiress was the Marchioness of Dorset, eldest daughter of
the French Queen Mary, by her second husband, the Duke of
Suffolk ; and that, in the event of her death or resignation, her
eldest daughter. Lady Jane Grey, would become her successor.
Finding that his arguments made a great impression on the mind
of Edward, he next persuaded him to create the Marquis of Dorset
Duke of Suffolk, who, as the price of his elevation to that dignity,
bestowed the hand of his daughter. Lady Jane Grey, upon Lord
Guildford Dudley, Northumberland's fourth son.

It was shortly after the above marriage that a council was
summoned by the young king. Cranmer and the judges were
invited to assist. Everything denoted that the subject to be debated
was one of those on which the lives and fortunes of its matters, as
well as the destiny of a people, sometimes depend.

Edward was seated upon the throne, at the head of a long table, by
the sides of which the members of the council had taken their
places. Cranmer, as primate was next the king ; Northumberland
faced him ; Sir Edward Montague, chief justice of the Common
Pleas, Sir John Baker, Sir Thomas Bromley, and Sir James Hale,

were seated near* the chancellor, the Bishop of Ely, who had reluctantly
consented to give directions to draw the letters patent which
transferred the crown from Mary and Elizabeth to Lady Jane Grey ;
but that wily prelate absolutely refused to sign it, or affix the great
seal to it, till the judges had previously affixed their signatures ; and
it required the personal entreaties of the king ere Cranmer could be
pi-availed upon to follow the chancellor's example. An expedient
was at last hit upon. A special commission was issued by the
king and council to the judges, requiring them to draw a patent
for the new settlement of the crown ; and a pardon under the great
seal was immediately granted them for any offence they might have
been guilty of by their compliance. Of all the members, Sir James
Hale, although a zealous Protestant, alone refused compliance. Cecil,
who afterwards became so distinguished in the reign of Elizabeth,
pretended that he only signed as witness to the subscription of the
prince.

You have signed your ruin, my lord," whispered the sturdy
Hale, as he followed Cranmer down the staircase of York House,
where the council had been held.

What mean you ? " demanded Cranmer.

That the 1 letters patent, in the event of our young monarch's
death, would become so much waste paper. The emperor will
assert the rights of the Princess Mary ; the people, who resent the
spoliation of the Church, and still more the corrupt uses to which
its wealth has been applied, will rise in their defence. Methought
I saw, as I sat at the Council-board, a skeleton, with an axe, behind
the chair of every one who signed — save one," he added, sorrowfully
— "save one."

And whose Alas that ? " demanded the primate, with a smile,
for he was too enlightened to yield easily to superstition.

Your grace's," answered-the speaker, sorrowfully.

"And what saw you in its place ? " demanded the archbishop.

A brand," replied the judge, shudderingly — " a blazing torch,
sxich as that the executioner uses when he lights the pile to which
some despairing guilty wretch is bound. In vain I tried to
persuade myself that my imagination deceived me. The glare of
the red flame was not to be mistaken ; like a living thing, instinct
with malice, it seemed to leap towards you, eager to reach your
robes."

The effect of an excited imagination," observed the prelate,
who, despite his philosophy, could not avoid being struck by the
singularity of the speaker's dream, for such he termed it. " You
must have slept during the council."

Your pardon, my lord ; nothing slept at that eventful meeting
except the prudence of the members ; and I could well wish, for
the love I bear your grace, you had been absent."

Why so ? " demanded Cranmer, in an uneasy tone of voice ; " the

pardon of the king secures us against charges, even should our
enemies prevail."

Would it secure you against the wrath of Mary ? Think you,
my lord, the daughter of Katherine of Arragon will ever forgive
the man who pronounced her mother's marriage illegal, branded the
stain of bastardy upon her own proud brow, and lent no nerveless
hand to uproot the ancient faith ? Do not deceive yourself.
Prudence could not so guard your steps that she would not find a
false one ; for power seldom lacks means to make occasions which
justify its ends."

True, alas ! too true. But Edward, our pious prince, is young,
and may recover."

Never ! "

What mean you ? " demanded the churchman.

** Simply that the king has not a year to live," replied Sir James.

"A strange prediction."

Your grace will find it a true one."

But on what grounds," exclaimed the unsuspecting prelate, " do
you draw such an inference ? He is young, and quite recovered
from the maladies which last year threatened him, the measles and
small-pox."

That was the time, I think, Lord Robert Dudley was named
gentleman of the bedchamber .' "

It was. What then .? "

Nothing, only that his highness's health hath been declining
ever since."

Mean you ? " exclaimed the horror-stricken Cranmer.

I mean nothing, my good lord, more than my«kvords express,
that from the time the Duke of Northumberland placed his son,
Lord Robert Dudley, near the person of the king, his highness's
health declined. It would puzzle even a lawyer's wit to make
treason out of that. Youth dies as well as age. The bud which
promises the sweetest flower is oft the earliest plucked."

"Woe — woe to England and her suffering Church!" sighed
Cranmer.

Fear not for the Church," exclaimed the sturdy knight ; its life
is not like human life, and cannot be destroyed. Farewell, your
grace ! I shall to my country seat, and wait for better times.
Remember my advice : when Edward dies look to yourself, and
wisely place the sea betwixt you and the soil of England."

With these words the speakers separated, and entered their
barges — Sir James to his house in the City, the primate to his
palace at Lambeth, the latter with a heavy heart. The conversation
with the knight had given him food for reflection ; for, as his
friend had hinted, his position was a dangerous one.

After the settlement of the crown was made, with so many
suspicious circumstances, Edward visibly declined every day, and

small hopes were entertained of his recovery. To make matters
worse, his physicians were dismissed by Northumberland's advice,
who prudently, however, obtained an order in council previously ;
and the dying youth was put into the hands of an ignorant old
woman, who undertook in a little time to restore him to health.
After the use of her medicines the bad symptoms increased in a
violent degree : he felt a difficulty both of speech and breathing ;
his pulse failed, his legs swelled, his colour became livid, and all
saw that his end was approaching. Now came Northumberland's
last stroke of policy. He caused letters to be written in the name
of the council both to the Princess Mary and Elizabeth, desiring
their attendance on their brother, whose infirm state of health
required the assistance of their counsel and the consolation of their
company. Hi»real object was to get them into his power, in order
that no opposition might be made to the succession of his
daughter-in-law, the unfortunate but innocent Lady Jane Grey.

It was the night before thule expected arrival that the guard, by
Northumberland's orders, had been doubled round the old palace
of Greenwich, where the young king lay. There was an air of
gloom in the features of the servitors as they hurried to and fro
with noiseless step, fearful to wake an echo which might disturb
their dying master. All but the great gates were closed, and there
a guard of Swiss were placed with orders to admit all such nobles
or members of the council as might arrive, but to suffer none to
depart. Many had already fallen into the snare ; others were
continually arriving.

You are riding a dangerous road, my lord," exclaimed a sturdy
yeoman, Who was mounted on a powerful nag ; " an earldom has
been lost by a foolish ride ere this."

What mean you, knave ? " demanded the horseman to whom
the above remark had been addressed. " Is it thus you venture to
sport with the Earl of Arundel ? "

Earls are but men, my lord," replied the stranger ; " hoodwink
them, they see no better than the vilest clown, and fall into the
snare the same."

The noble rider was too experienced a courtier not to understand
that there was some allusion to the present state of affairs and the
summons which he had received to attend the king at Greenwich ;
for, as one of the old nobility who still adhered to the ancient
faith, Northumberland felt anxious to secure his person. Sir John
Bates, an officer of the duke's household, rode near him ; so that in
effect, although not in appearance, the earl was a prisoner.

Thou art an impudent knaVe," said Arundel, in an altered tone,
which showed that he fully understood the speaker's intention was
to get speech with him. "Another time I'll speak with thee ; at
present, maugre the night, wind, and the rain, I must pursue my
journey."

The scene of the above rencontre was Blockhead, about three
miles from the ancient palace, and the night, as the speaker had
said was a wet and rough one.

No time like the present, sir earl."

Here Sir John Bates rode between the speakers, and in a
peremptory manner ordered the stranger to ride on, observing that
he could not permit the earl to be annoyed by a beggar's insolence.

The beggar's importunity," replied the yeomen, " is better than
the gaoler's care. One would think the valiant knight conducted
a prisoner or a hostage to Greenwich, rather than a belted earl and
an honoured guest, that he is so churlish in his speech to those
who accost him."

Villain ! " exclaimed the Might, raising the handle of his heavy
riding-whip, and levelling a blow at the speaker, which, had it taken
effect, must have proved fatal. Then the intruder, as if terrified
at the impending danger, put spiirs to his steed, and started off,
pursued by the infuriated knight. No sooner had they disappeared
in the darkness, than the real object of the pretended flight became
apparent ; for a second horseman, who had hitherto remained at a
distance, rode up to the side of the earl, and entered into a hurried
conversation with him.

Are you the friend of the Princess Mary ? " he demanded.

"I am."

*' And in communication with her ? "

The Earl of Arundel hesitated.

My lord, moments are precious, for there is not one upon which
there does not hang a life. If the Earl of Arundel has belied a
long and noble line of ancestry, the faith of his fathers, and
forgotten the friends of his youth, let him pass on — his degradation
be his punishment ; but if his heart be honourable, still let him
trust to one whose word was never yet broken to friend or enemy."

And who is that one ? "

The stranger approached so near to the peer, that he felt his
breath upon his cheek ; and fearing that his intention might be
hostile, would have started back ; but before he could wheel his
horse round, the pretended yeoman raised the slouched barret
which concealed his visage, and discovered to him the well-known
features of Wolsey's former favourite — the jester, Patch.

Enough," said the earl ; " I know that I may trust thee ; but
be brief."

Edward is dying."

I guessed as much ; his illness hath assumed a strange character
of late."

"Poison," whispered the jester; "nay, start not, but hear me.
Northumberland plays a daring game, and one which might prove
successful, had not the Princess Mary firm friends to watch over
and protect her. I baffled the villain once, and mean to do so



again, Heaven willing. He has caused letters to be written to her
and Elizabeth, in the councils name, commanding their attendance
at Court. They will arrive and find the king a corpse."

Insolent traitor ! " muttered the noble between his teeth.

You, and the Catholic peers, as well as the princesses, have been
summoned by the same hellish policy. Like a wary fowler he has
spread the net : bid hope farewell, my lord, should he have time to
draw it close,"

What mean you? What can the aspiring villain aim at ? "

A prison for the royal maidens ; the block and axe for those
who espouse their cause."

What can I do ? — my escort," observed the earl, " is composed
of Northumberland's followers. I have scarcely half-a-dozen fellows
of my own in all the train. Fool, fool ! " he added, " to be thus
caught."

While the princesses are at liberty, my lord, your life is safe.
You must accompany your gaolers to the palace."

What then ?"

The moment Edward has drawn the last breath of his young
life, cast this ball from the window of the palace upon the marble
pavement of the court beneath. It will convey a signal Which I
shall understand."

Patch placed a small ball, apparently of glass, in the hands of the
nobleman, who contrived to thrust it, unseen by his attendants, into
the bosom of his doublet. It felt cold as an icicle against his skin.

"What next am I to do ? " demanded the earl.

Take no paint in the traitorous proceedings which will follow,
as you value your head and your broad lands. But tell me," he
added, " have you the token about you which was to serve as a
sure pledge between you and the Princess Mary in the hour of
danger ? "

"I have."

Give it to me."

Arundel slowly drew from his finger a sapphire ring graved with
the cognisance of his ancient house, and placed it, with a confidence
almost amounting to simplicity, in the jester's hand, who, cynic ashe
was, felt gratified with the reliance upon his honour which the
act conveyed,

It shall not be abused, my lord ; and now, farewell ! For see,"
he added, " the chase has ended — for once the sparrow hawk has
chased the falcon, but the noble bird disdains to turn and slay
him."

As he spoke, the first yeoman who had addressed the Earl of
Arundel in his progress galloped up to the speakers, still pursued
by the infuriated Sir John, whose steed was almost blown.

'• Have you finished ? " he demanded of the jester.

I haves



And the token ? "

Is in my possession. Farewell, sir earl," said Patch, as the
knight approached ; " forget not my instructions. When next we
meet, Mary will be queen of England, or "

Or what ? " demanded the peer.

We shall meet no more."

With these words the horseman rode away just as Sir John Bates
rejoined his prisoner ; for such in reality the earl considered
himself, and was, however courteously the affair was disguised.

You have had a conference, my lord," exclaimed the knight,
who saw that he had been duped.

Possibly," said the noble, coolly.

"There is treason in this, my lord."

That treason exists somewhere I have long suspected," said
Arundel, impatiently ; " but where, time must show ; meanwhile,
good fellow, as the peers of England are not yet sunk so low as to
be accountable for their conduct to every saucy squire or knight
invested with a little brief authority, let's drop the subject, and
resume our ride towards the palace. The air is almost as unmannerly
as thy tongue — the one has ruffled my temper, and the
other all but blown the cloak from off my shoulders. Forward,
knaves ! " he added ; " I thirst for a cup of malmsey to warm me."

Thus admonished. Sir John Bates thought it best to take no
further notice, but proceed at once with his charge towards the
palace. On his way he decided upon not relating to his master the
circumstance which had occurred, and the earl, he felt assured, for
his own sake, would be silent. It was near midnight when they
reached their destination.

In the tapestried chamber of the palace, known by the name of
the King's Lodging, were assembled the various members of the
council round a heavily carved and gilt couch, upon which lay the
person of the expiring monarch. Cranmer was praying at the side
of the royal sufferer, whose thin livid lips but faintly articulated
the responses to the prayers. Northumberland, like the evil genius
of the prince, kept hovering round him, nervously anxious when
anyone approached him, as if he feared some dangerous confidence
or observation. The nobles present were ill at ease ; each felt that,
in signing the letters patent changing the order of succession, he
had placed his life and the honours of his race in jeopardy. The
danger which they had braved when at a distance seemed terrible
when near at hand ; and but for the fear of Northumberland —
whose foreign troops and Northern dependents guarded the palace
they would gladly, one and all, have left him to settle the question
of succession with the nation and the Princess Mary as he could.

"Another hostage," whispered the Bishop of Ely, who was
chancellor, to Sir Thomas Browne, as the Earl of Arundel entered
the royal chamber ; " he plays his game with skill."

But it does not always insure success," was the reply.

The new-comer advanced to the foot of the couch, and bent the
knee before the suffering mass which, while it moved and breathed,
was king of England. It would have pained a sterner heart than
his to behold the fearful alteration which had taken place in the
youthful form of the dying Edward. His graceful limbs were
swollen from all proportion ; and while his body had become
unnaturally large, his features were sunk and shrivelled till the
expression of the countenance was really ghastly. Such was the
influence which Northumberland retained over the mind of the
prince, that, even so near his end, his chief anxiety was to secure
the fulfilment of the settlement which he had made of the crown
and kingdom. To this he was still further urged by his fears for
the stability of the Reformation, to which there is every reason to
conclude he was devotedly, if not bigotedly, attached.

"Welcome, Arundel ! " he muttered with difficulty, and at the
same time extending his hand ; " you are come in time to see the
last of Edward."

Not so. I trust to Heaven that your grace has many years of
health in store. You are young, and may recover. Your highness's
physicians are most skilful."

There was a peculiar look which passed between the members
of the council and the duke, by whose orders the physicians had
been removed.

I have no physicians," said the king ; " perhaps it might have
been better had I trusted them."

It might, indeed," said the earl.

I sent for you," added the royal sufferer, who had been well
instructed in his lesson, " first, as you were the friend of my
father ; secondly, that you might sign the patent by which, with
the advice and consent of our council, we have regulated the
succession to the crown."

Your grace," said the earl, seriously' — " your father's will has
already settled that. Your royal sisters "

"Are bastards," fiercely interrupted Northumberland, "and
incapable of reigning."

Yes — yes," added the king, " Dudley — he always called him
by his family name — " is right. Besides," he added, " the holy
faith might suffer should Mary succeed me. Elizabeth — yes, I am
sorry for Elizabeth."

As this last observation fell upon the ear of Cranmer, he regretted
that he had not availed himself of this partiality of the dying
prince for the daughter of Anne Boleyn to facilitate her accession
to the throne. Her Protestantism was undoubted, and she was his
god-daughter — a tie in that age almost superstitiously respected.

You will sign it ? " demanded Edward, anxious to have the
assent of so influential a person as the Earl of Arundel, whose

acquiescence would entrain that of a great number of Catholic
families in the same arrangement.

I must have time to consider, my dear lord," replied the peer,
anxious not to irritate the sufferer. " If they be legal, the letters
patent can receive no additional authority from my approval or
otherwise. I have a duty to my country and myself "

Which you shall have time well to consider of at the Tower,"
said Northumberland. " Think not, my lord, we fear your name
or influence. Accusations of disaffection had been brought against
you, and his highness wished to convince himself if they were
true or groundless. He is convinced. What, ho ! " he added, " let
a boat be manned and a party of the yeomen of the guard convey
my lord of Arundel close prisoner to the Tower."

No," said Edward, faintly attempting to raise himself from his
couch of suffering.

It must be so, my dear lord," whispered Northumberland, with
but little affectation, even of reverence, for he felt that the speaker
in a few minutes would be past asserting or expressing his wishes.

It shall not be so ! " exclaimed Edward, with an effort to make
himself heard. " My lord, I charge you on your allegiance that no
harm befall our cousin of Arundel ; he must not be pressed in this.
Perhaps it might have been wiser if others had considered it
as well."

He is a traitor ! " exclaimed the exasperated duke.

Robert Dudley, thou lies to thy teeth. Thou art the traitor,
and this dying prince thy victim. Who dismissed his attendants,"
he continued, " to try the drugs of poisoners and charlatans ? "

Poisoners ! " repeated Cranmer aghast ; " no — no ! It is too
horrible ! "

Poisoners ? " said Edward, the word for the first time waking a
strange suspicion in his soul. " Listen to me, Dudley. From the
hour I smelt the flowers you gave me on my birthday I have had
a sickness in my heart ; their perfume has never been absent from
my sense ; but poison — impossible — no — no — the boy who trusted
you, raised you to honour, loved you like a father, has never fallen
a victim to so black a treachery. You did not, could not do it."

"Rather a thousand deaths myself," exclaimed the duke,
throwing himself at the side of the couch. " my dear master,
could my heart's blood, poured drop by drop, assuage one pang, or
lengthen your life one day, I'd give it freely."

I am sure of Dudley," Replied Edward, trying to smile, and at
the same time extending his hand in sign of renewed confidence.
I am sure of it. Stay by me, and let me have no more brawls.
Peace — peace should dwell in the chamber of a dying king. I am
going ! — pray for me father ; pray for me."

The excitement of the dispute between Northumberland and
Arundel had been too much for the exhausted sufferer, and his

spirit gradually sank, like the "wick of an unfed lamp expiring for
want of oil. He expired in the seventeenth year of his age,
grasping with touching confidence the hand of Dudley.

No sooner was he assured that the final breath had parted than
Northumberland sprang upon his feet, and, advancing to the centre
of the room, exclaimed :

God save Queen Jane ! "

Amen ! " added Cranmer, solemnly, at the same time with gentle
hands closing the eyes of the inanimate Edward.

Arundel advanced towards the window, and, following the
instructions he had received, cast the ball he had so mysteriously
obtained upon the pavement of the court-yard. It broke without
any detonating explosion, and a lofty column of violet-coloured
time illuminated the old towers of the palace, shooting up into
the air considerably above them. Fortunately, the action had been
unobserved.

"Treachery ! " exclaimed the duke, who, with several members
of the council, had advanced towards the window. " Have we
traitors here ? "

Each regarded his companion with mistrust ; like men who had
committed some crime, they feared that one would denounce the
other.

Perdition ! " added Northumberland, as he perceived that the
signal-fire was answered by a similar column on the opposite side
of the Thames — " there seems a preconceived code of signals. This
must be looked to. In the mean while, my lords, until we have
proclaimed the Lady Jane, and taken such measures as the safety
of the kingdom may require, I hold it prudent that the council do
not dissolve, but remain in permanency, attached to the executive,
to advise and to control it."

The proposal was agreed to, and the Earl of Arundel was, by the
consent of all, consigned a prisoner to the keep of the old palace,
where several strong rooms to serve as dungeons, in case of emergency',
had been preserved.

Cranmer remained praying by the royal corpse, absorbed in bitter,
deep reflections, for he felt that a crisis was at hand, not only for
the Church, but for himself, and he almost felt inclined to follow
the advice which Sir James Hale had hinted at, and seek safety in
Holland. Had he fortunately done so, how foul a page had been
spared in England's annals !

Let Everil, and the mad enthusiast he calls sis friend, but
follow my instructions," muttered Northumberland to himself, ashe
retired from the chamber of death to hold consultation with
the council, " and Fortune, I defy thee ! My blood — mine ! " he
added, " shall fill the throne of England."

Like many other dreamers, he was doomed to be deceived.

On the morning after the death of Edward VI., a gallant train of

nobles and knights was passing over the heath at Hoddesden ; they
were both preceded and followed by a clump of spears, consisting
of the followers of Sir Henry Beddingfield and Sir Henry
Jerningham, two of the most ancient families of Norfolk, and
devoted to the old religion. On receiving the summons of her
dying brother, Mary had hastened to set out upon her journey ; but,
with her usual forethought, she sent word to several of the Catholic
nobility of her journey and intended route ; so that by the time
she advanced towards the metropolis, the followers of those who
came under pretence of doing her honour so completely outnumbered
the attendants of young Everil and his companions,
whom Northumberland had sent to escort his victim, that she
found herself in a position, if necessary, to defy them.

Mark you how the Papists throng her passage ? " whispered
Everil to his companion, a tall, thin j'onng man, who rode beside
him. " Should she succeed to the crown, woe to this now Protestant
land."

She never shall succeed," was the cool reply.

Everil fixed his eye upon the speaker as if to read his very
thought, but the expression of his countenance was calm as usual.
A close observer might, perhaps, have imagined that there was a
degree of insanity, of that peculiar kind which results from
religious enthusiasm, in the sullen expression of his deep blue eye
and attenuated features, which were sharp and almost painfully
intellectual.

Every line in their expressive lineaments was thought — deep,
morbid, soul-consuming thought.

While advancing in the freshness of the morning, two cavaliers
were observed directing their foaming steeds towards them. They
were Patch and his old friend Walter. Everil at once recognised
them, and a frown upon his gloomy brow marked how little
pleasure the rencontre gave him. His companion pulled his beaver
yet closer over his brow, as if he wished to avoid being recognised.
The two horsemen wheeled roimd to avoid the spearmen who
preceded the cavalcade of the princess, and directed their steeds
towards the centre. When they arrived within bow-shot of the
principal personages, Sir Henry Beddingfield left the side of the
Lady Mary, with whom he had been conversing, and spurred his
horse to meet them.

Whence come you ? " he demanded.

From Greenwich," was the reply.

And whither go yo\x ? "

''I suspect," said Patch, "our journey ends here. We would
have speech of the Princess Mary."

Impossible." •

Very likely," was the cool rejoinder; "but we must see her
highness, for all that. Know, Sir Henry, you have to do with a

man who has long dealt in impossibilities, and knows how to
appreciate them. Give her highness this token."

He pulled from his finger the sapphire ring given him by the
Earl of Arundel, and presented it to Sir Henry Beddingfield, who
regarded it, for a moment, in silence.

What thinks thou, sir knight, of the doctrine of impossibilities
now ? " demanded Patch.

Follow," said the noble. " I know this ring, and the name of
him who sent it."

Riding hastily before, Sir Henry whispered a few words to the
princess, who instantly checked her steed and dismounted on the
heath. Walter thought she looked unusually pale as they
approached ; for the rest, her demeanour was calm and self-possessed
as ever.

Now, your intelligence ? " she demanded, in a low harsh tone ;
our brother ? "

Sleeps with his royal sire," replied Patch, bending the knee ;
*' God save Queen Mars' ! "

In the enthusiasm of the moment, the two noblemen who were
standing near repeated the cry ; the spearmen who followed them
caught up the shout, and in a few moments the heath resounded
with the cry of " God save Queen Mary ! "

We thank you, gentlemen," she exclaimed, without appearing
in the least excited by the unexpected intelligence ; " but reserve
your shouts till we arc seated on the throne which treason would
hold from us. Isn't not so, old friend ? " she added, turning to the
jester.

Letters patent have passed the great seal, setting aside your
majesty's and the Lady Elizabeth's claim in favour of the Lady
Jane Grey. London is in the hands of Northumberland's troops,
and the Tower is garrisoned by his creatures."

So then it would seem I am a queen without a kingdom.
Heaven bear me witness, this crown hath fallen at an untimely
hour ; but since it Imth fallen," she added, proudly, " upon our
unworthy brows. Heaven will doubtless give us strength to bear it.
Our council has been brief, friends, but 'tis ended. Sir Henry
Beddingfield "

Madam," said the gallant nobleman, bending his knee to the
ground before her.

To you we intrust the care of our royal person. Conduct us
back to Framlingham. You, my faithful Jerningham, write letters
to our nobles and the mayors of our cities and towns, commanding
them to assemble their followers and the citizens in arms to defend
our rights. Pardon to those who submit."

Pardon to all ? " demanded the party to whom the order had
been given.

No," she replied, passionately ; " not even for the crown of

which they woukl deprive me, will Mary stain her lip with
falsehood ? There are amongst them those who, if I reign, shall
pay their treasons and their crimes with life — men whom Mary
can never pardon. Now then, once more to horse, and on to
Framlingham ! "

The speaker's hand was on the saddle to remount the palfrey
standing near her, when the young companion of Everil, who had
been Northumberland's messenger with the letter to Mary, rushed
between the gentlemen who surrounded her. Madness was in his
eye : the shouts which proclaimed her accession had unhinged his
mind. Deeming himself called upon by God to save His Church —
proud in the holiness of his mission, he drew a long Venetian
knife from his belt, and rushed to his sacrifice of fanaticism and
murder, exclaiming :

Die, Jezebel, in the pride of thy sin, ere yet the land is drunk
with the blood of saints ! "

The blow must have proved fatal but for the presence of mind
of Patch, who darted between the princess and the fanatic, and
received the long blade of the weapon through the fleshy part
of his arm. The assassin was instantly secured.

Art hurt, old friend ? " demanded Walter,

Not much," was the reply ; " but who is the mad fool who
sought his sovereign's life ? "

Behold him," cried the youth.

The jester turned, and a sudden sickness came over him as he
recognised in the speaker the son of his old master Wolsey, Louis
d'Auverne.

CHAPTER XXVII.

On hearing of the flight of the Princess Mary to Framlingham,
Northumberland found that further dissimulation was fruitless ;
he went therefore at once to Sion House, accompanied by the Duke
of Suffolk, the Earl of Pembroke, and the members of the council.
Approaching his daughter-in-law, Lady Jane, who resided there,
the messengers sank upon their knees, and offered their homage to
her as queen of England. Jane, who was ignorant of the young
king's death, and the letters patent which had been executed in her
favour, received them with equal surprise and grief. It was long,
very long, before the entreaties of her parents, whom she tenderly
loved, or the remonstrances of Northumberland, could induce her
to accept the crown. Indeed, it was the influence of her husband
which ultimately wrung a reluctant assent from her quivering lijis.

Evil will come of this, my lords," she exclaimed — " evil to all
of us ! God permitted not the inheritance of the orphan to be
wrongfully taken. Speedily, speedily will He avenge it."

The words of the youthful speaker were but too prophetic.



V?'!*

VOL. n.

The unfortunate Lady Jane was of the same age, and had been
educated with the late king. Young as she was, she had attained
to a familiar knowledge both of the Latin and Greek languages, as
well as several modern tongues. The learned Roger Ascham, tutor
to the Princess Elizabeth, relates that one day, having paid her a
visit, he found her reading Plato, whilst the rest of the family were
engaged in a party of hunting in the park ; and on admiring the
singularity of her choice, she told him that she derived more pleasure
from the perusal of that author than the others could reap from all
their sport and gaiety'. Her heart, full of this passion for literature
and tenderness for her husband, who well deserved her affection,
had never opened itself to the flattering allurements of ambition,
and there is every reason to believe that her first rejection of the
crown was a sincere one.

It v\'as then usual for the sovereigns of England, on their accession,
to pass the first few days at the Tower, and thither Northumberland
immediately conveyed the phantom sovereign. All the members
of the council were obliged to attend her to that fortress, and by
this means became in reality the prisoners of her father-in-law,
whose will they were forced to obey. Orders were given by them
to proclaim Jane throughout the kingdom ; but these orders were
executed only in London and the immediate neighbourhood. No
applause ensued ; the people heard the proclamation with silence
and concern ; some even expressed their scorn, and one Pot, a
vintner's apprentice, was cruelly punished by having his ears cut off
for this offence. The Protestant teachers themselves, who were
employed to convince the people of the lawfulness of Jane's usurpation,
found their eloquence unavailing. Even Ridley, Bishop of
London, who preached a sermon for that purpose, wrought no
effect upon his audience.

Mary, meanwhile, remained at Framlingham, the nobility daily
flocking to her standard, till she soon saw herself surrounded by a
considerable army ready to take the field. The partisans of her
rival daily deserted to her ; and even the fleet, which Northumberland
ordered to the coast of Suffolk, declared for the Princess
Mary, who commenced her triumphal march towards London.

In this critical position the ambitious duke resolved to take the
field himself to oppose her progress ; but on reaching Bury St.
Edmund's he found that his army, which amounted to only six
thousand men, was too feeble to encounter the queen's ; he therefore
wrote to the council for reinforcements, who instantly seized
the occasion to free themselves from confinement. They left the
Tower as if they meant to execute Northumberland's commands ;
but being assembled in Barnard's Castle, a house well fortified,
belonging to the Earl of Pembroke, they deliberated on the
means of sliding out of the dangerous position in which they
found themselves. Arundel commenced the conference by repress
II. E E 2

setting the injustice and cruelty of the duke, the exorbitance of
his ambition, the criminal enterprise which he had projected, and
the guilt in which he had succeeded in involving the council, and
concluded by offering that the only means of making atonement
for their past offences was by a speedy return to the duty which
they owed their lawful sovereign.

This motion was seconded by Pembroke, who, clapping his hand
to his sword, swore he was ready to fight any man who expressed
a contrary opinion. Not a voice amongst those who had so lately
bent the knee to Lady Jane was raised in defence of her claim.
The lord mayor and aldermen were immediately sent for, and
orders given to proclaim Mary. The citizens expressed their
approbation by shouts of applause ; and even Suffolk, the father of
Lady Jane, who commanded in the Tower, finding resistance
useless, opened the gates, and declared for the queen. His innocent
daughter, after wearing the crown ten days, joyfully resigned it,
and retired to private life. Northumberland, deserted by his troops,
proclaimed Mary queen, throwing up his jewelled cap and exhibiting
every exterior mark of joy.

Mary's approach to London was one continued triumph. Elizabeth
met her at the head of thousand horse, which she had levied
to support their joint title ; and in a few days the queen took
possession of the metropolis of her kingdom amidst the rejoicing
of her faithful subjects. Her first orders on entering the Tower
were for the arrest of Lady Jane, her husband, father-in-law, and
the Duke of Suffolk, whose incapacity caused his life to be ultimately
spared. But the guilt of Northumberland was too great,
and his courage and ambition too dangerous, to permit him to
entertain any reasonable hope of life ; and he was ordered to be
brought immediately before the council, at which the queen,
together|with Gardiner, Tonstal, and Bonner, who had been confined
during the late reign, assisted. They found favour in the eyes of
Mary from their adherence to the Catholic cause.

The royal lodgings in the Tower once more presented a scene of
courtly splendour and confusion. The long, panelled ante-chamber
leading to the council was crowded with noblemen and dignitaries
eager to pay their homage to the now firmly established queen, by
Y/hom it was generally observed that the Catholic was received
v/ith peculiar savoir. As yet, no overt act had been committed
which announced her secret resolution of restoring the ancient
faith, an intention which those who knew her more than guessed
at. Among the assembly. Patch, who still wore his arm in a sling,
and who appeared dale with mental as well as bodily suffering,
together with Walter and his wife, were not the least conspicuous
personages. Short as had been the sojourn of the heiress of Stan-field
at the Court of Henry VIII., her person was well remembered,
as well as that monarch's open admiration of her ; and those who

knew how bitterly the Princess Mary resented the injuries of her
mother, angered unfavourably for her reception. They knew not
that none w-as more firmly convinced of her innocence than the
new queen, or of the pledge which, in atonement of her unjust
suspicion, she had so solemnly given her, and which, amidst all the
changes, trials, and vicissitudes of her eventful life, the exile had
carefully preserved. The members of the new council passed
through the crowd to the chamber where they were for the first
time to assemble with an air of importance and dignity, at
which the jester would have smiled had not his heart been occupied
with fears for his old master's son ; for the baffled assassin,
Louis d'Auverne, was that very morning to be brought up to receive
judgment.

How proudly," whispered one of the spectators, " the old fox
Norfolk struts along ! Ill-fortune befall the council where his voice
is heard ! "

Pshaw ! " said another, who was a time-serving trimmer ; " he
is only using the freedom of limbs which he has just recovered.
Lock you up eight years in a cage like the Tower, and you would
walk stiffly too,"

At this moment the Duke of Northumberland, dressed in deep
mourning, pale, and dejected with anxiety and the mental sufferings
he had undergone, was led in a prisoner ; the lieutenant of the
Tower and a party of the yeomen of the guard had him in charge.
As he passed, all shrank from him — some with real feelings of
disgust, for his crimes were flagrant and many ; others, with an
affected horror, in order to show their zeal for the new order of
things, Humbled as he was, he cast a look of scorn around him
when he saw the coldness of those who but a few days before had
sworn by his fortunes, and built their own upon his favour.

On a slightly elevated chair of state, Mary, as pale and collected
as usual, presided at the head of the council-table. Bonner was
seated on her left hand ; Gardiner, Norfolk, Tonstal, and Courtenay,
who was soon after created Duke of Devonshire, on her right. By
some historians she is supposed to have entertained an affection for
that accomplished nobleman, who was the son of the Marquis of
Exeter, and had been detained a prisoner merely on suspicion
during the late reign. His attachment to the Princess Elizabeth, it
is said, prevented their union, and was one of the causes of the
queen's hatred and jealousy of her sister.

As soon as the oaths of allegiance and supremacy were administered
— for Mary still retained the title of " Head of the Church " —
Northumberland was introduced ; the lieutenant with his drawn
sword standing behind him, and the yeomen at the lower end of
the room guarding the door.

So, my lord," said the queen sarcastically, " we meet at last,
somewhat later than you calculated, had your traitorous design

siiocoeded in obtaining possession of onr person after our dear
brother's death."

Of what, then, am I accused ? " demanded the duke.

Treason," replied the Earl of Pembroke, v/ho hand been one of
the first of Edward's council to desert him

Treason ! " repeated Northumberland, " treason ! Show me
the law, how a man can be guilty of treason who obeys order's
given him under the great seal, or the justice of those who are
involved in the same crime, if crime it be, sitting as his judges."

Fear not, " said Mary, quietly, " but you shall have both law
and justice. "

If, " said the Earl of Arundel, " this great knave hath so
fenced his villainies that he escapes upon the present charge, I
have another, still more hideous, to bring against him."

There was an expression of mingled surprise and contentment
upon the countenances of many present, for they felt that the
defence would have involved them in the prisoner's guilt.

Name it ! " exclaimed the accused.

Murder as well as treason ; not against our gracious mistress,
whom God preserve, but her late royal brother Edward, the victim
of his crimes and mad ambition."

There was a general expression of horror at the speaker's words,
and Northumberland turned deadly pale.

Proceed," said the queen, calmly ; " my lord of Arundel, we
trust, has too much discretion to accuse without due proof."

Not only proof, my royal mistress," replied the peer, " but
witness."

On a signal given by the speaker, a side door opened, and a
female figure, deeply veiled, advanced to the lower end of the
council table. The prisoner seemed as much surprised at her
appearance as the members of the board.

What mummery is this ? " he exclaimed. " Who is the
woman ? "

"A mother whom thy sword has rendered childless," exclaimed
the female, throwing back her long veil, and discovering the
features of Dame Alice. " I told thee we should meet again. Mary
Tudor," she added, "the prophecy is fulfilled ; this withered hand
has placed the child of Katherine of Arragon upon the throne, and
avenged the blood shed on the night you find from Kimbolton."

Mary recognised in the speaker the hag in whose cottage she had
found shelter.

What means the woman ? " she demanded.

It means," said the wretched being, " that these hands prepared
the poison which sent your brother to his long account ; a poison
so subtle that, dropped upon a flower, a handkerchief, or glove,
would dry the wearer's blood, dissolve the marrow in the crumbling
bones, and waste the sickening brain,"

'Tis false," faltered the duke.

Swear it," said the woman ; " call God to witness it ; do it, and
damn thyself ! My vengeance would be but half-complete if thy
crimes left thee but one faint glimmering hope of Heaven's
pardon,"

Several of the members of the council who had been present at
the death of the young king remembered his words — that he had
never been free from a sensation of sickness from the hour he
smelt of a nosegay which Northumberland had presented to him
on his birthday.

And what," said Mary, sternly, addressing herself to her former
hostess, '• hast thou to hope from this confession ? Our justice "

Justice ! " hoarsely shrieked the hag. " I expect nothing from
human justice : no fear from that of Heaven ; my hell has been on
earth — my punishment anticipated here. I have been hunted from
the hearthstone of my fellow-creatures, like the dam of the red
wolf." I and my cub, even in the desert hut which gave us
miserable shelter, the hunters — the human vultures — found us —
slew my boy — but left his aged mother to avenge him. And now,
Mary Tudor, shall I tell thee what I would do were I the Queen of
England, and thou the wretched guilty thing before thee ? "

"What ? " demanded the queen.

I'd bid the ministers of my wrath heap in the courtyard of the
Tower the holly-bush and oak. Alive I'd chain yon trembling cur,
v.'hose selfish heart ne'er beat but for ambition or revenge, and his
vile accomplice to the pile, and from the balcony of yonder window
watch them burn, burn, till their flesh was ashes. Such is the law
of England," she added, casting a glance of intense hatred on the
prisoner ; " and such, if I were queen, should be the poisoner's
doom."

All shuddered as they listened to her, for there was something
terribly unnatural in a criminal of her age and sex suggesting the
details of such a fearful death. Mary alone gazed upon her
unmoved.

Thou hearest," she said, addressing Northumberland ; " the
woman hath spoken truly. Such is the law of England,, and such,
if convicted, by my crown and faith, shall be the poisoner's
punishment."

The quiet tone in which the queen uttered her determination
sent a chill through the veins of all who heard her. Northumberland,
overcome with terror, threw himself upon his knees, and
solicited in the most abject terms permission to detract his plea of
having acted under order of the great seal, and confessed his guilt ;
his confession was taken down by the clerk of the council, and
read over to him.

Sign it," said Mary, sternly.

He did so, and was immediately removed.

After a brief consultation, it was decided that he should be
brought to trial timon his confession ; it was not thought prudent
to allude to the death of Edward, who was extremely beloved by
the Protestant party. The fact of the poison having been prepared
by one who had foretold the accession of the queen, and a devoted
Catholic, might have engendered strange suspicions in the minds
of the people, ever apt to believe in the crimes of their rulers.

That very night Dame Alice was privately strangled in her
prison.

It was upon this confession that the Duke of Northumberland
was condemned and executed upon Tower Hill. Previous to his
death he turned Catholic, and exhorted the people, when upon the
scaffold, to return to the religion of their fathers, as the only means
of healing the wounds of the nation. There is every reason to
believe his conversion was sincere.

And now, my lords," exclaimed the new sovereign, " we have
another act of justice to perform. The wretched fanatic whose
impious hand was raised against our life is to be punished, and our
preserver recompensed. Admit them to our presence."

The doors of the council chamber were thrown open, and Louis
d'Auverne, Patch, Walter, and the heiress admitted to the royal
presence. Immediately after the attempt, the enthusiast had been
deserted by his tutor and companion, Everil, who wisely fled the
kingdom, nor did he venture to retusa till the following reign.
Louis was pale, but calm and collected ; the being abandoned by
his friend caused his heart a keener pang than the anticipations of
the cruel death which he knew awaited him. Mary was struck by
his calm, collected demeanour, and whispered to Gardiner, who
stood beside her chair of state :

See, my lord, the courage which fanaticism inspires."

It may not accompany him to the scaffold," replied the prelate ;
"the devil generally abandons his instruments at the supreme
moment."

So," said the queen, addressing herself to the prisoner, " I see
by thy unbroken spirit and unblushing front that penitence is still
a stranger to thy hardened nature. What had I done, what injury
inflicted, that thou shouldst raise thy hand against thy sovereign
and a woman ? "

I deemed thee the enemy of my country and my faith,"
answered Louis, firmly.

Coward and traitor ! " replied Mary, contemptuously."

Heretic ! " added the bishop.

The Protestant members of the council exchanged uneasy glances,
for the queen smiled graciously upon the speaker.

Madam," said the prisoner, " your faith teaches you to persecute
the light of truth — mine to die for it. Heaven, that nerved my
arm, will sustain my courage in the hour of trial."

Heaven ? " interrupted Patch. *' Deluded boy ! Are the
eternal 'thunders still ? "Wait life and death no longer on the
Godhead's will ? Canst so deceive thyself to think that Deity
would break its own first law to arm the regicide, when but to willis
to perform ? Madam," he added, sinking on his knee, " shed
not the blood of this deluded south. He is misled — not naturally
wicked. The fanatic preaching of the Lollard hath blinded both
faith and reason. Commence thy reign by imitating Him whose
words, e'en on the cross, were of forgiveness. Pardon — pardon ! "

The attempt against our life, as a Christian, we might forgive,"
said Mary, coldly ; " but as a queen, we feel bound to punish it.
Were such great offence o'erlooked, riot would soon usurp the place
of revered authority, unbridled license hurl nerveless justice from
her judgment-seat, and wild confusion desolate the land. Thou
art mad to ask it."

By thy mother's memory," exclaimed the jester, sinking on his
knees ; " by the service I have paid — by the sacrifice of my own
life, in saving thine ! Mercy, sovereign, mercy ! "

The sacrifice of thy life ! " repeated the queen, in a tone of
surprise.

The knife with which he struck was poisoned," continued
Patch. " Had it but touched thy blood, yea, grazed thy skin the
tithe part of a hair, not all the drugs which nature yields had
saved thy life. Yet twelve days, and the voice of thy preserver
will be silent as the destroying angel's wing sent on death's sudden
mission."

There was a mournful silence for some moments after the speaker
had announced his approaching end. The heiress of Cranfield, who
loved the jester as she would a father had evil fortune permitted
him t6 live, sank sobbing on her husband's breast ; even the iron
features of Mary were slightly moved. But what words can paint
the agony and remorse of the prisoner, whose affection for his
victim was, perhaps, the last human weakness which lingered
round his heart .' He had been the guardian, the friend, the
instructor of his childhood ; and although years had separated
them, the feelings and memories of old times returned. He knew
not that the knife was poisoned ; Everil, who had supplied him
with the weapon, had kept that fearful knowledge to himself.

Queen," said Louis d'Auverne, " the mask has fallen. Heaven
could never have inspired me to commit an act at Which e'en fiends
would shudder — the destruction of my childhood's earliest friend.
I have been deceived," he added. "Hell saw my spiritual pride,
and sent its agent clothed in religious garb to tempt me. Friend —
father," throwing himself upon his knees and embracing the feet
of Patch, "trample — spit upon me — spur and scorn me, but ere I
die say that you forgive me ! "

The tears rolled fast down the speaker's countenance as he fixed

an imploring glance upon his victim, who raised him with a smile
of quiet, deep contentment, and folded him in his embrace. He
had done so a thousand times when the criminal was a child,

The bitterness of death is past," he whispered in his ear ; "when
I shall meet thy father face to face, I can aver his son is worthy of
him. Madam," he added aloud, "an aot of clemency worthy your
gracious self — mercy for this poor youth ! "

Impossible," said the queen. "Ask any other boon, and it is
thine."

God ! " said the jester, " are the hearts of all earth's rulers cast
in the same iron mould ? I have served this queen — given my
life for her — saved her from many dangers — from false friends, and
yet the only recompense I ask is heartlessly denied ! I have
lived," he added, " to thank Thee for Thy mercy that / ain not a
king "

It was thy duty," interrupted Mary in an angi-y tone.

I remember it, madam," replied Patch, proudly ; " though you
have forgotten yours. No matter, boy," he added, throwing his
arm over the shoulder of Louis d'Auverne ; " our separation will
be a brief one."

True," said the queen ; " for, by my crovai, there is not one
whose prayer can move nle ! "

"Thy oath, dread queen — thy oath!" exclaimed the heiress of
Stantield, hastily tearing from her neck the golden chain and
reliquary which Mary had presented her with. Remember thy
royal words : 'Whate'er the boon — be it a vengeance, an honour,
or a life — I swear to grant it.' "

She sank upon her knees before the chair of state where" Mary
was sitting, and held the long-forgotten reliquary to her astonished
sight.

The Lady of Cranfield ! " she exclaimed, in a harsh, dissatisfied
voice.' " eye do remember some such promise, but this is not the
hour or place to claim it."

Pardon, gracious princess, but no hour so fit as when the voice
of gratitude demands it ; it is the heart's memory, and mine must
be cold indeed when it is deaf to its strong claim."

What would you ? " demanded Mary.

The life of Louis d'Auverne," firmly answered the heiress.

The queen half-started from her chair in indignant astonishment ;
but the sight of the talisman, which was supposed to contain a
particle of the true cross, restrained her. She remembered her
oath, and was too superstitious, if not too religious, to break it.

Lady of Cranfield," she said, mastering her anger, and extending
her hand to receive back her gift, "the promise is sacred, and,
whate'er it be, shall religiously be kept. Heaven forbid Mary
should commence her reign with a broken vow upon her conscience ;
but reflect well on what you ask."

Madam-whispered Gardiner, " the Church has a dispensing
power, which "

"Would be useless here, my lord," interrupted the queen,
"deeply as we reverence it. Lady ot Cranfield," she continued,
forget not that your lands are confiscated, that you have children,
and a husband ; that my signature at the foot of this sheet of
parchment restores both you and them to lordship, wealth, and
honour. Speak ! "

She advanced to the council-table, took up a pen as in the act to
write, and paused for a reply The supplicant hesitated not an
instant, but still repeated :

The life of Louis d'Auverne ! "

An earldom to redeem my inconsiderate oath," added Mary.

"The life of Louis d'Auverne," said the heiress, without a
moment's hesitation.

Consult thy husband."

Madam, I should offend him by the insult. Could you divide
your sceptre, coin the wealth of England's realm, and pour it down
before me, it would not tempt me. My cry would still be, ' The
life of Louis d'Auverne.' "

Her husband, with a burst of love and admiration which not
even the presence of royalty could rest-ain, raised her from her
suppliant position, and pressed her to his manly heart ; and a tear
stole unheeded down the jester's cheek at the proof that their love
for him was superior to all that wealth or state could offer.

Take it," said the queen, coldly, at the same time affixing her
signature to the parchment ; " but blame not me if it has left your
children beggars."

They will be happy," replied the heiress, receiving it upon her
knee, " since it has paid the debt of gratitude and honour which
their mother owes."

Louis d'Auverne ! " exclaimed Mary, " to redeem an inconsiderate
vow we spare thy forfeit life, but we banish thee from
England's soil for ever. Four-and-twenty hours we give thee to
depart the land ; that once expired, if found within our realm, thou
dies a traitor's death. Look to it, lords," she added, striking her
hand upon the table in a way which reminded the council of her
father. " We shall hold those as traitors to our crown who plead
for him again, if found within our kingdom."

Without deigning to cast a look upon the heiress, the queen,
preceded by Gardiner and Bonner, left the council-chamber,
followed by all the members of the board. The clerk only
remained to give orders to the captain of the guard to let a party
of the yeomen follow their late pi-prisoner, and keep a close watch
upon him till he was embarked, or, the four-and-twenty hours once
expired, to arrest him if he lead not quitted England.

For me," said Patch, raising the hand of the heiress to his lips,

you have bartered the halls of your fathers — the .heritage of your
children."

They love their kind friend too well to reproach me," replied
the high-minded woman, with a faint smile, " I have news for
them worse than the loss of home and lands, exile and poverty."

And that ? " said the jester, in a tone of surprise.

Walter, finding that the heart of his wife was too full to speak,
took the speaker by the hand, and sorrowfully answered for her,

"Thy fearful danger. Richard," he added, naming his son,
will grieve for his instructor, and Mary break her tender heart
for her kind playmate."

Yes," said Patch ; " yes, children are always grateful ; they will
regret me. But no more of this. I need the present hour for
action, not lamenting. Perhaps," he added, " I have a balm in
store you little dream of."

Walter was not deceived by the expression ; he knew too well
the truthfulness of his friend's nature ; but Mary, with a trusting
hope, permitted herself to be deceived. We are easily persuaded
to believe the thing we wish.

Patch, accompanied by his rescued pupil, returned to the house
of Marietti, his partner ; the party of the guard appointed to watch
over Louis till the moment of his embarkation attending him.
The strong coffers of the partners were opened, and the exile
supplied with funds to insure an honourable existence in the land
of his retreat.

Too much, too much ! " exclaimed the deeply repentant man ;
let me owe my existence rather to my daily toil than to the
bounty'' of the man whose love I have so cruelly requited."

Take it," said the jester ; " thy father's son must not live a
beggar."

But it will leave thee poor," urged Louis.

"Enough will remain for the only task I have left in life," said
Patch, with a smile ; " I have paid my debt of gratitude. Friendship's,"
he added, " is all that now remains."

A ship bound to France was easily found, and the captain, urged
by the golden arguments of Marietti, set sail before the twenty-four
hours had expired. Louis d'Auverne repeatedly embraced his
victim and preserver, before he set his reluctant foot on board,
demanding pardon and forgiveness, which were as repeatedly
accorded. The exile arrived in France in safety ; there he passed
under the name of Winter a secluded life. From the chalice and
stole upon his tomb, it would seem that he returned to the
faith in which he had been educated, and died a priest of the Roman
church.

I have saved him," exclaimed Patch, as he watched the
lessening sails of the vessel, " saved my master's son. Wolsey," he
added, " glorious spirit ! soon shall we be reunited ; thy gracious

smile will be the first to welcome thy old friend, when his tired soul
reaches that peaceful land where earth's delusions fade and mind
holds converse in the pure light of truth."

On the return of the jester to the house, Marietti met him at the
threshold. The Italian's countenance was clouded not at the attack
which had been made upon his coffers — for all he had was at his
friend's disposal — but at the approaching separation ; for Patch's
danger was no secret to him.

The Earl of Arundel hath been here ? " he whispered.

What sought he ? "

What seek the nobles generally when they visit the roof of
those whose honest industry they affect to despise, prizing their
blazon and their feudal rights above the arts of industry and peace ?
He wanted gold, not for himself, but for a greater one."

For whom ? " demanded the jester.

The queen."

Good ! " said his partner ; " she shall have enough to glut the
thirst of avarice. gold ! " he added, " 'tis thou that art earth's
god ; the sceptre which rules it may be of iron, but the hand which
sways it is of gold. Farewell ! I must to the Tower to see the
queen."

You are pale and worn," exclaimed Marietti, whom long years
of intercourse and friendship had united to the speaker as to a
brother ; " rest, rest, until tomorrow."

I shall soon have an eternity of rest," replied the jester, "and
will not forestall it. To render my sleep a calm one, I must
not lay my head upon my pillow leaving my greatest debt
unpaid."

What debt is that ? " demanded the Italian.

"A long and just one — the debt of friendship and of human
love."

Despite his friend's remonstrance, the speaker, without a
moment's rest, turned upon his steps, and made his way to the
Tower, where the queen still held her court. Like all sovereigns,
at the commencement of a new reign she wanted money. The
Protestant portion of the kingdom, jealous of her intentions, were
certain to oppose the granting of a subsidy, unless accompanied by
conditions which Mary was determined not to accept ; and Marietti
had been applied to as one of the wealthiest merchants in the City,
if not the very wealthiest, to advance an immense sum to enable
the Government to act at first independently of the Commons, who
began to show themselves far more jealous of their money than of
their liberties or religion. Patch was too well known all about the
Court to find much difficulty in obtaining an audience of Gardiner,
now the queen's chief adviser. The prelate, remembering the scene
which had lately passed before the council, received him haughtily
and coldly.

"Now," said the churchman, " your pleasure, master jester; time
with those who have a nation's welfare on their hands, the burden
of the state upon their minds, is precious."

And yet I have seen it borne with no less grace than strength,"
observed his visitor : " but we have outlived the age of fable. There
were giants in the olden time."

Gardiner winced at the sarcastic tone in which the comparison
between himself and Wolsey had been drawn, and again demanded
his pleasure.

You have sent the Earl of Arundel to Marietti, the merchant, to
negotiate for certain nones."

"How know you that ? " demanded the prelate.

Is there anything astonishing," quietly demanded Patch, " in
the junior partner, in a transaction of such magnitude, referring to
the head of his house .? "

Partner ! " repeated the astonished bishop ; " you jest."

Not so," said his visitor. " Since modern statesmen have taken
up the trade, I have laid it down. Besides," he added " our masters
now would rival us."

"You, then, really are the person to whom Marietti said he
must refer ? "

No other." said the jester.

You know the terms proposed ? " demanded Gardiner.

I came not to listen to terms in such a matter, but to dictate
them."

Dictate them .? "

Ay, for not one stiver shall be counted down unless they are
agreed. The hand which holds the sceptre may be another's, but
the sinews that give it strength are mine,"

I trust the conditions will be reasonable,"

More ; like myself, I will be generous ; nay, princely in my
terms. First, I double the sum your royal mistress named."

Doubled ! " exclaimed the prelate, his eyes sparkling with
satisfaction. " Good, good ! and the terms ? "

Patch approached the speaker, and whispered something in his
ear ; at which the expression of satisfaction on Gardiner's countenance
suddenly changed to disappointment,

Impossible ! " he replied ; " she hath sworn never to restore
them."

It was a rash oath, my lord, and therefore sinful."

She will keep it."

And I my gold. Farewell."

Stay," said the bishop, thoughtfully ; "money must be had,
despite a thousand oaths."

True," said the jester ; " the Church's power can well dispense
with them."

Wait for me," said the prelate ; " in a few minutes I will return."

Gardiner was as good as his promise. In less time that Patch
could have expected he entered the room, his countenance flushed,
for he had endured a rough scene with the queen, who yielded at
last to his reasons on the necessity of her position. In his hand he
held a document signed by the rojTii hand, and sealed with the
great seal.

That same night the secret vault in the house of Marietti was
emptied of a great part of its long-hoarded treasures, which were
conveyed by water to the Tower. The jester paid with no niggard
hand for the favour he had asked .

The transaction once concluded, he disappeared, and returned to
the dwelling of his partner no more.

Walter and his wife wore speculating upon the absence of their
old friend, whom young Richard and little Mary were hourly
inquiring for, when a messenger from the Tower ai-rived, and placed
in the hands of our hero an order, signed by Gardiner, commanding
him and his family, in the queen's name, to depart from London
and take up their residence at Cranfield Hall. Conjecture and
opposition alike were useless ; and in three hours after the receipt
of the royal rescript, the party, including old Steadman and Marietti,
set out upon their journey.

As the horses of the party rounded the point of the chase which
admitted the full front of the building to their view, a loud
enthusiastic shout burst from the assembled tenantry and peasants
assembled on the green sward before the principal entrance, and a
hundred voices cried :

Welcome to our rightful lady — welcome to the child of the old
lords of Cranfield ! "

Mary could only weep and bow her gratitude.

The rejoicing tenants escorted the wanderers till they entered
the great hall, where a fresh surprise awaited them. All the old
retainers of the house whom time and the 'late commotions had
spared, attired in the livery of her house, were drawn up to meet
the heiress, who, like one bewildered, passed on, still pursued by
the blessings and acclamations of the crowd, till she reached the
chamber where she had passed so many solitary hours. There the
party found the enchanter who had contrived the scene. Poor
Patch, propped up on his couch, pleasure and death struggling for
mastery in his expressive countenance, was waiting to receive them.

You are come at last," said the jester, with a faint smile ;
come to take possession of your home — the future abode of
innocence and virtue. Take it, Walter," he added ; " 'tis my last
gift. The wealthy merchants for the future are dependants on
your bounty. But I," he added, " shall not be a burden to you
long."

He placed in the hand of his friend the deed which restored the
domain of Cranfield to him and his heirs for ever.

Matchless friend ! " exclaimed onr hero ; " why hath Heaven
denied the only boon that could complete our happiness — thy life ?"

Better as it is. Walter, my heart yearned to thee when thou
wert a boy, as I first saw thee a suppliant in the halls of Hampton.
Thou art the only man, save one, who never yet deceived me.
Thou needs not blush to be the jester's heir ; for 'twas on the turn
of fortune whether I became your king or friend."

My king ! " exclaimed Walter and Mary, with surprise.

Ay. Bury this with me ; I would not common eyes should
gaze upon it, or vulgar hands rend it from the senseless clay."

He took a chain and miniature from his neck as he spoke, and
placed it in the hands of his friend. The portrait was that of a
young man dressed in the regal robes. There was a name in small
letters round the setting. Walter held it to the light and read it
aloud :

Perkin Warbeck ! "

My father," said the jester.

Whether Perkin really was, as he asserted, the son of Edward
the Fourth supposed to have been murdered, by the order of
Richard, in the Tower, or an impostor, has never been decided.
Historians disagree. One thing alone is certain, that Patch was
his son. Wolsey had saved him when a boy from the jealous
cruelty of Henry the Seventh ; hence the attachment which,
through life, the jester evinced towards him — his fidelity and love.

"Farewell, Richard," said the dying man, extending his hand to
the kneeling boy beside him. " Don't forget your old friend, nor
the lessons he has given you ; they will sustain your heart in many
an hour of trial."

True," replied the boy, " for they have been of honour. Mary,"
continued the sufferer, "kiss your old playmate. When spring
comes and you gather wild flowers in the woods of Cranfield, spare
one for the grave of your merry jester, and he will ask no other
monument. Strew flowers upon my grave — I need no marble. If
in the world of shadows we retain a knowledge of what passes
here on earth, 'twill soothe my restless spirit."

Patch — friend — my only friend ! " exclaimed Walter, sinking
on his knee, and kissing the hand of the dying man, " thy memory
is graved too deeply on my heart ever to be erased. When it is
smouldered in the turf beside thee — then, and then only, wilt thou
be forgotten."

"And then our spirits will have renewed the amity of earth in
heaven. Faint, and fainter still, life's pulse is ebbing. Like the
jester's wit, life's vocation's past. Master, I come ! Walter —
Wolsey— Wol "

With one long-drawn sigh the model of friendship, fidelity, and
honour resigned his breath, amidst the tears and prayers of those
who loved and mourned him.

OF THE

UN Diversity

OF ILLINOIS

83,3
SroGIs

v-3

PRINTED BY C. W. BRADLEY AND CO.

12 AND 13, FETTER LANE, Eg.

I'lHl'ITR Eager.

iii. Oohbu of Thi i Loth— Thi Oohtbbbxci. . i

II. Tin. Battle Off BDOI Hii.i.— Tick Ft 1 1 vi; — Tin:

Oaoi 20

III. Tin Bll H 01 KlIMTOX HAMOB — Sri.i-n i:\'> EbRAHD . 57

iv. Tm ;Ew \i-i-tin. Ifoxi 'a Btoxi 54

V. Tm. Wi.i>i'i\ im riu Pbibos-Thi Kino Mabcrvi om

Thi \"i i sea Doom 89
VL Bib Malcolm uBpabbdbi Bamboo rai Kabtbb Off
Wilton— Thi Joubnbi to Bzbtbb — Dbatb ov

llwrin.s 84

VII. 1 in II K/.i.kii.i. BBOWMB — OXCB Mobs OH This

' • ■ i ' ■ ■ : A II I. A II 100

VIII. Tin Bxtbi im>i Bbbtbb Babpobo oh im: Back—

!' . I Hi ii A TbBBIBLI BtBUOGI I . .1 \h

IX. Thi 11 ihamBo Lcoomrn hath Pbtbb Bull

Babe obobFuoht— Thi BivBBBDRor

i i iik ■• M vin - Oak* 1 An

Liffi db i \ is . m

X. The Master of Wilton Saves Herbert of Cranfield
Execution of the Hothams — The King's

Letter 148

XL Battle of Naseby— The King Delivered Over by

the Scotch 164

XII. Cromwell and the King — Charles Refuses to Fly —

The Queen Escapes to France 179

XIII. Cromwell and Ireton — Parliament and the Army —

Prevention of the King's Escape. . . . 195

XIV. Martin Rescues Mary — Milton the Poet procures

the Release of Prince Rupert and the Lord of

Cranfield 211

XV. The Trial of Charles I. — Lady Fairfax and the

Prince . 224

XVI. The Council — Fairfax's Decision — Hugh Peters —

The Royalist Hostelry — The Explosion . . 238
XVII. The Escape— The Astrologer — The Encounter

between Cromwell and Prince Rupert . . 253

XVIII. Execution of Charles 1 268

XIX. Fairfax's Humiliation — The Prince of Wales

Escapes to France 285

XX. The Astrologer Again — The Conspiracy against

the Protector — Barford Baffled by Milton . 300
XXI. The Old Manor House— The Stranger — Old Gripe

the Miser — The Fatal Papers 312
XXII. Cromwell's Discovery — Barford's Fate — Release

of Herbert of Cranfield 327

XXIII. Cromwell's Gifts— Death of Sir Malcolm Kenton

Abduction of Dick of the Belt . . . 343

xxiv. Dbatb of. Obomwbll— Thb Boot Shoved to

Hi \ i i\i;i><.\-•-.! \. k <'\i>r. " M">7

xxv iii. Di w>\\ Bnoouhteb BBTwnx Hi u 1 1 bt or Stan
kiiii> a\m i nr Mabtkb of Wilton-Mi

I> I ii-i I l 01 < "n\i:i.r.s 'MX

XXVI. Tl [OS-StaSFISLD \n - KiRi- His Sin ,v

K\K.H P— Death OF TUT liASTDI Of WlKTON .

Parley between Prince Rupert and Cromwell
The Fugitive and his Protectors
Encounter between Barford and the Master of Wilton
Reception of Charles I. at Oxford
The Marriage at the Gate-house Prison .

The Skirmish at Chalgrove

The Funeral of Hampden

Henrietta Destroying the Treaty of the Parliament.

The Descent from the Walls of Exeter .

The Master of Wilton Rescuing Herbert

Charles I. abandoned by the Scotch

The Departure of Henrietta from England .

The Escape Prevented

Charles I. Proceeding to Trial

Cromwell Replying to the Scotch Commissioners .
Lady Fairfax before the Presbyterian Council .
Encounter between Prince Rupert and Cromwell

Funeral of Charles I

Cromwell and the Regalia

page.











1G1









VOL. III.
CROMWELL ; or, THE PROTECTOR'S OATH.

<HAi'Ti:i: i.

The peasant quits the wythe and plough ;

I'millM the held, unsown the gain ;
Wei r. i^'iis in ev ry valley DOW,
And desolation marks the plain.

TliEUK are few-sims more characteristic of the English nation
than their Tillage churchyard, with its yew-trees dipt into grotesque
forms. Off offered to run luxuriantly wild ; its thick hedge intermixed
with fragrant brier <>r prickly thorn, reminding us of the
pains ;is well as pleaaoree of life— sorrow and perfume mingled.

The churchyard laus . ver hi en the poet's favourite haunt ; to him
it is alike suited for study or reflection. The sting of envy, the
burning thirst of ambition, and the cold neglect of the world
to assail him there ; he tempers his soul in the deep silence
of the scene, and n ads a moral in each turf-hound grave.

The church, churchyard, and village of Keinton, in Warwickshire,

were amongst the most picturesque in England, till tin hand of
violence defaced the fine old Elizabethan manor-house (whose
half-castellated, half-domestic architecture fitted it for the residence
of a family <<f consideration) and partly demolished the church,
whose square pillars, grotesque ornaments, and circular arches,
b esp o ke its antiquity. A narrow footpath winding through a park-like
indosurr l.-d from tin churchyard to Saint Ball; but thew

is which once sacred si ■ covert to the timid hare or dappled

deer have Long sine,' iHssppwirod
It was on the sind of September, 1618, the day before the battle
11 li. that a horseman, whose good Landed steed w;w

POL. in. B2

fastened to a tree hard by, stood leaning on the rustic turnstile
which opened from the churchyard into the path we have described.
He was a young man, handsomely though plainly dressed in a
mulberry-coloured doublet, and trunk hose of the same modest hue.
A steeple-crowned beaver, with a plain velvet band and buckle,
shaded his handsome features, which were of that melancholy
character that denotes genius or deep feeling. From the mingled
simplicity and elegance of his costume, and the air of distinction
with which he wore it, it would have been difficult for the most
experienced eye to have decided to which of the great contending
parties which then divided England he belonged. His appearance
was too quiet for a Cavalier, for he wore neither ribbons nor love-knots
; and the long chestnut curls which fell half-way down his
neck were equally irreconcilable with the supposition that he was
a Roundhead ; while the long, heavy rapier which hung from a
broad buff belt, worn over the shoulder, was equally common to
either party. Richard Wilton — or, as he was more commonly
called, the Master of Wilton — was the son of a gentleman who had
been slain at the commencement of the civil war, while fighting on
the side of the Parliamentarians ; and if he had not hitherto
declared himself on the same side, it was that his love for the only
daughter and heiress of his neighbour, Sir Malcolm Keinton, the
lord of the manor which bore his name, and a staunch Royalist, had
restrained him. Mary, the heiress of the old knight, was indeed a
creature to look upon and love. In her countenance sensibility
and beauty were so exquisitely blended, that each borrowed and
reflected back a nameless witchery. Her eyes, fringed with long,
dark, silken lashes, were of that deep, thoughtful blue which
denotes decision as well as gentleness of character. Those who
had only seen them when gemmed in tears at the sight of suffering
and misery, would have been startled at their scornful expression
when listening to a tale of cruelty and wrong. Her form was
graceful as the young antelope's when, startled from its thicket by
the hunter's tread, it quits its lair to bound across the plain.
Although brought up from infancy by her indulgent father, to
whom her wildest caprice had hitherto been law, and more
accustomed to follow the hawks and hounds than occupy herself
in what might be strictly termed feminine employments, works of
charity had never been forgotten. By all the tenantry and labourers
around she was looked upon and almost worshipped as a superior
being ; and if ever active mercy, sympathy, and unbounded charity
deserved such homage, the heiress of Keinton surely did.

It is not to be supposed that so fair a creature had been permitted
to remain without suitors. Many had proposed, and many been
refused ; amongst others, Unlock Barford, a gentleman of ancient
family and dilapidated fortune, whose character was so questionable,
that had no other consideration influenced the knight and his

daughter, it would at once hare Insured his rejection. Although
ha endured his mortification silently, those who knew him beat
shook their heads, and predicted evil to the heiress. Ee ha I i
b known to peas over a slight or forgive an injury, (told
an. I collected as the coiled viper, the venom of his Eangfl first gave
signal of his hate.

It were unnecessary here to enter into the causes of 'lignite
I :i tir Kim,' and Parliament— history has rendered them

familiar to most Of Our readers; suHirient to observe, that it was

the struggle between right divine and the rights of nature ; between
antiquated dogmas and the dawn of reason ; between the right to

govern and tax a people independent of their will, ami that sturdy

spirit of independence which has sine,, shaken the thrones of so
many d I whose work in Europe unfortunately i- d

achieved. Tie Earl of Essex, who commanded the forces of the

Parliament, had secured the country round Northampton, put A
garrison into Coventry, and taken possession of Warwick. Thei

nggle between the contending forces had taken place before
the city of Worcester, in which Prince Rupert, Charles's nephew
by his Bist r's side, the unfortunate Queen of Bohemia, had been
vit r this victors Essex took up his quarters in the
city, where for three weeks he lay idle, doing nothing. Encouraged
by this strange inaction, and by his own great accession of men,

-nd money, the king quitted Shrewsbury on the 20th of
• l r, with the intention of turning tin 1 army of the Roundheads,
and marching straight upon London by Wolverhampton, Birmingham,
and Kenilworth. Essex had been wholly ignorant of
the movement till the army of < charles had gol in his rear ; he then
with some alacrity, and encamped near tie' village of
Keinton, on the evening that our tale commences, the Royalists
halting on Edge Hill, a little in advance. The king, by the advice
of a council of war, n solve d to • irn round and face his pursuers,
who. in their late and sudden movement, had left whole regiments
behind them.

Sir Malcolm Keinton, in his seal for the Royal cause, had

all his retain n and household \ too aged himself to head them, he
had intrusted the command to a young knight, Sir Bern

1, who had brought the king's summons to the Staunch old

I who, in the fervour of his loyalty, had summoned

dolour and favourite Richard Wilton to follow his example,
n his influence on their monarch's si le, promising him
that his daughter's hand should be the reward of his comp
No ; could have induced the young Puritan

•. from the principles in which he had been i educated and to
which he was attached, hut from the cause in which hi
hid i: . then the straggle v. md he

prey to ever-changing emotions, loth to recede, and fearing to
advance.

It is impossible to say how long his reverie would have lasted,
had it not been broken by the pressure of a friendly hand upon his
shoulder. He started, and beheld his old schoolfellow, Unlock
Bars or d.

"Unlock !" he exclaimed, with an air of constraint as well as
surprise, " you here ? "

Is my presence, then, unwelcome ? " demanded the intruder.

"Unwelcome ! " repeated his friend ; "no. Strange, if you will
knowing the side you take in this unhappy struggle — but
certainly not unwelcome."

Our fathers took the same," observed the Parliamentarian, with
a slight sneer.

Wilton felt the reproof, for he blushed deeply.

Come," resumed the speaker, " I will not see thee the dupe of
the old plotting knight and his fair child, who speculate upon thy
weakness. Pooh ! " continued Unlock, as his hearer laid his hand
upon his sword the instant he heard the hint of dishonour, " steel
affright not me. I tell thee, Wilton, to thy teeth, Sir Malcolm
Keinton hath proffered thee the hand of his daughter as a bribe to
betray thy country. Canst thou deny it ? Do so, and despite the
evidence of my senses, eyes, and ears, I will believe thee."

True," said the young man, firmly : " the old knight hath
accepted me as his son-in-law ; but it does not follow that I have
bartered my convictions. I may have changed them. Parliament
has gone too far."

A sophist, too ! " exclaimed his listener, with a cool, contemptuous
smile.

You speak your thoughts right freely, sir."

Because I would not see thee fooled by a fair skin and a blue
eye — caught in a trap baited by a shadow. Mary loves another.
I see," he added, "truth is unwelcome to thee."

Mistrust is never welcome — the generous mind repels the
ungenial guest."

She hath broken faith with thee."

"Impossible," replied Wilton, bitterly, " for it hath ne'er been
plighted. Thinks thou, with such a heaven in view as Mary's
love, I had known either pause or doubt ? The man she loves
will hold his life a vassal to her smile — see with her eyes, hear
with her ears, and discord's hand be vainly raised to jar the sweet
communion."

The knight of Cranfield's life, then, must be set in one rich
harmony," observed his tormentor.

My friend ! "

Is he thy friend ? " inquired Unlock, with a sneer. " Right it
should be so — the arrow else were careless."

Thou knowest he is my friend," said Wilton — " my youth's
companion and my manhood's choice ; for I have found him still
the soul of honour — a mirror where integrity might see reflected
her own image, undimmed by passion's breath, unstained by
passion's weakness."

And what wouldst thou say to him ? " demanded the tormentor,
coolly weighing every word he uttered, " whose tongue should tell
thee that this paragon of friendship and of honour, this matchless
friend, was false ? "

Strike the vile slanderer to my foot ! " exclaimed his companion,
impetuously.

Strike ! " said Barford, coolly folding his arms, and standing
motionless as a statue before him. " I tell thee so. He hath
robbed thee of thy mistress ! "

The half-convinced Puritan started back, and laying his hand
upon his rapier, called upon him to defend his life ; but his
informant still remained with his eyes fixed upon him, motionless.

Fools reason with their swords," he replied, in answer to the
challenge. " If thou art a man, be patient. Answer me, hast thou
ever known my name and falsehood coupled ? "

Never."

I ask thee not to credit me, but the evidence of thine own
senses. This very hour Mary and the knight of Cranfield meet in
the chestnut grove."

Wilton, overcome by the deep agony which those experience who
suddenly feel the secretly cherished hope of a whole life destroyed,
seized the speaker's hand, and hoarsely murmured :

Peace ! lest thou raise a fiend beyond thy power to lay. My
heart is seared — withered to the core — its life-stream turned to
ashes. Come," he hurriedly added, " to prove thy truth, let us
search the wood. If thou hast spoken falsely — slandered my
friend — sported with Mary's name — I'll rend thee as the lion rends
his prey."

With these words he sprang over the stile leading to the domain,
and began forcing his way through the shrubberies which sheltered
the approach to the chestnut grove, the lovers' place of meeting.
He was closely followed by his evil genius and false friend, Unlock
Barford.

In the centre of the wood, at the back part of the manor-house,
was one of those quiet, sequestered, rural nooks which Love might
have selected for his bower. Although the rough breath of autumn
had cushioned the seats and carpeted the narrow path between
them and the tiny lake with leaves, the wood still presented an
impervious screen, holly, cedar, and other hardy evergreens having
been thickly planted in the openings between the trees, so that it
was possible to approach close behind the several resting-places
without being perceived. On one of these the heiress of the sylvan

domain was seated, listening with a downcast, but not dissatisfied,
air to the earnest discourse of the Cavalier who was seated beside
her. Her dress consisted of a dark-green velvet robe, edged with
sable, open in front to display the folds of an amber-coloured silk
under-dress, seamed with threads of gold. A hat, something in
fashion like a Spanish sombrero, coquettishly looped on one side
with a single emerald, half-shaded her expressive features, the
single ostrich feather which adorned it falling over her left
shoulder ; her neck and bosom were modestly covered by a long
veil or scarf, of old English point or guipure lace, which, as the air
was blowing freshly, the maiden held together in front, but not
sufficiently high to hide the dazzling whiteness of her throat, which
showed more fair from the contrast with the narrow black band
and diamond clasp which encircled it.

The appearance of the Cavalier who sat beside her was not less
striking. A close-fitting jerkin of buff leather, worn under a
cuirass of polished steel, displayed his manly figure to advantage ;
even the heavy jack-boots, which, in accordance to the fashion of
the time, he wore drawn considerably above the knee, could not
disguise his well-knit limbs, in which symmetry vied with
strength. The only attempt at ornament about his person was the
richly embroidered baldric which supported his silver-hilted rapier,
engraved with the crest of his ancient race.

This must end, Herbert," said his companion, in reply to some
observation which the Cavalier had just addressed to her. " Such
a parent as mine, and a friend like Wilton, should no longer be
deceived. I am unhappy in this mystery. My father's blessing
does not fall half so sweetly on my ear as when I had not a thought
or wish concealed, and felt that I deserved it. No ; when he kisses
me, calls me his madcap girl, and his dear old voice trembles from
the fulness of his heart, I feel a pang in mine as if I were unworthy
of his kindness. Come what will, I am resolved that he shall know
this very day the engagement existing between us."

And drive me from the manor-house," observed her lover.

Better that," replied his mistress, " than that our hearts should
grow accustomed to deceit. Do you know I often feel, Herbert,
that even you would have loved me more but for this concealment ? "

The look of passionate, reproachful tenderness with which the
young man regarded her might have convinced one more sceptical
than the speaker how unfounded was the accusation. A gentle
smile dimpled her soft cheek as she observed it — it is so sweet to
feel that we are beloved. Lowering her tone of expostulation, she
affectionately added:

What is it, Herbert, that you fear ? "

"Absence," sighed her suitor.

"Absence!" she repeated, fixing her blue eyes on his; "remember,
if it tries hearts, it also softens prejudice. My father loves

me — never yet controlled my slightest wish ; think you, that when
he finds the happiness of my life at stake, he will be less generous,
less indulgent ? We wrong him by the doubt. True," she continued,
" he may bluster and storm a little at first — it is his humour ;
but when he sees his pet, as he sometimes calls me, pining like a
sick falcon in its cage, he'll join our hands and bless us. And
were not that," she added, her eyes suddenly filling with tears, " a
happiness worth waiting for ? "

Wisest and truest," said her lover, kissing her hand, " follow
the impulse of your own pure heart ; it would be wronging Heaven
to doubt its dictates. But trust me, love, 'tis not your father only
that I fear."

Who else ? " demanded Mary, in a tone of surprise.

Wilton," replied the Cavalier. " He hath a breast — the seat of
honour — so filled with gentleness and virtue, courage and manly
grace, he would win any woman's heart."

Save mine," interrupted Mary. " And yet I love him — love
him as a sister. He was the playmate of my infancy ; and though
a stalwart boy, and full of daring, would make himself as gentle
as a girl and patient as a saint to bear my wayward humours. Poor
Wilton," she added, thoughtfully, " would he could forget me ! "

Had not the lovers been too deeply absorbed in their conversation,
they must have heard the deep sigh which echoed from the shrubbery
behind them.

"Do you know, Herbert, he once risked his life to do me
pleasure."

Indeed ! "

Yes, indeed. A young wood-pigeon, a half-fledged, venturous
thing, had fallen from its nest — there in yon lofty beech whose
branches overhang the water. I took it home ; but though I nursed
it in my bosom, it pined for the shelter of its parent's wing, sickened,
and would have died, had not kind Wilton, seeing my tears,
undertook to restore it to its airy home. Just as he reached the
dizzy height the treacherous branch gave way, and he fell headlong
into the stream beneath. I can scarcely recollect what followed.
Several of the keepers, alarmed at my shrieks, came to his assistance,
and drew him from the water. When he recovered, his first words
were to assure me that he had placed my unfledged favourite with
its little mates. I almost loved him then ! "

Noble heart ! " exclaimed the young man. " Blest e'en with
thee, regret would reach me, Mary, should I lose Wilton's friendship."


You will not lose it," said the maiden ; " he is too good — too
just and loving. When he shall learn that for three whole months
we met at my godmother's, at Nathan House, — that, like a wilful
girl proud of my liberty, I never named him till our hearts were
pledged each to the other, his generous nature will relent."

Come," she continued, " our absence may be observed, and I
would wish my confession to my good old parent to be spontaneous,
not an extorted confidence. Don't look so miserable, Herbert,"
she laughingly added ; " by my maidenhood an' thou slowest not
more courage in war than thou hast ever done in love, thou wilt
make but a desponding leader for my father's dependants."

Braver in war than love ! " exclaimed the Cavalier ; " in the
first we only risk our lives — in the last our happiness."

With these words the young couple rose from their seat, and
slowly directed their truant steps towards the hall, discoursing
sweet and loving fancies as they went, or indulging in those day-dreams
of the heart, from which awakened once, we dream no
more.

No sooner were they out of sight than Wilton, followed by
Unlock Barford, broke from the underwood ; the features of the
former were pale as those of a martyr listening to the doom which
sends him to hopelessly struggle in the arena. The world was the
young Puritan's arena, and the monster he had to encounter —
disappointment.

An expression something between a smile and a sneer might be
seen upon his companion's countenance, for his nature rejoiced in
the blight which had fallen upon the heart of the man he called
his friend.

Tis past ! " exclaimed Wilton, mournfully ; " my dream of
life is past, my confidence in man's integrity and woman's faith
for ever broken. Traitor to friendship," he added with a sudden
burst of indignation, " I will be revenged ! "

You have a weapon — why not stab him by her side ? "

Barford," cried the young man, recoiling from him with a look
of horror, " do not tempt me ! We are weak creatures, and the devil
is ever busy at our side with his vile promptings, pandering to our
passions."

Will you not be revenged ? " demanded the tempter.

Revenged ! " repeated the broken-hearted lover, with a cry of
anguish ; " revenge on whom ? Was he not my friend, and does
not Mary love him ? "

Art thou the man to lick the foot that spurns thee ? " whispered
Unlock Barford. " He hath deceived thee — made thee his dupe ;
beneath the mask of friendship robbed thee of Mary's love — a
double treason ; and thou wilt pardon it ? "

No," exclaimed Wilton, "I will reach his heart."

Right ! " exclaimed his companion.

But not as thou intendest,"continued the speaker, with a melancholy
smile. " I will heap coals of fire upon their heads — teach
them the value of the love they spurned ; that done, my heart and
sword are once more both my country's."

Without waiting for a reply, the young man directed his steps

towards the old manor-house, leaving Barford perfectly satisfied
with the mischief he had created. He had poured the gall of wormwood
and of jealousy into the heart of Wilton, and attached his
wavering resolution to the cause on which his own fortunes
were at stake — that was one point gained in his devilish policy ;
and from the excited state in which his companion left him, he
doubted not but that a duel would ensue if once he encountered
Herbert Cranfield — that was another ; for secretly he hated them
both, as bad men hate the beings whose virtues contrast more
brightly with their vices.

Blood will be shed — I feel it — I am sure on't," he muttered
hoarsely to himself, as he turned upon his steps to await Wilton's
return from the manor-house in the village. " Some fools would
let the maudlin dreams of coward conscience fright them from the
path which I pursue. Let them," he added, with a sneer ; " it leaves
the field the wider for the few who scoff at conscience and the
rags 'tis made of."
With these words he turned into the wood, and retraced his way.
The great hall of Keinton Manor was an oblong apartment which
ran the entire depth of the building, and was richly panelled with
carved oak and walnut-tree.

Over the vast escutcheon-carved chimney pieces, which were
so lofty that a tall man could scarcely lay his hand upon the
projecting cornice, were two portraits — one of Ernulf of Keinton,
the founder of the family, one of William the Conqueror's robber
knights, who first won a heritage on the fair soil of England ;
the other of Umphriville de Keinton, a grim Crusader, who won
great fame in Palestine, where, according to a tradition of his
descendants, he cut a Saracen in two with a single blow of his
double-handed sword, and saved the life of the Lionhearted Richard,
for which exploit the king knighted him upon the field. Few
who gazed upon the ponderous weapon of the stern old warrior
doubted the feat; indeed, in the presence of the present owner of
Keinton it would have been dangerous to have done so, as the
blustering, hasty-tempered knight would have challenged the
unbeliever on the spot ; it was a household truth with him — a thing
he had sworn by, and not to be disputed.

Sir Malcolm, a fine old man, nearly seventy, was pacing up and
down the hall, leaning upon his golden-headed crutch-cane, whose
support was necessary to him, for he had been partially disabled
since the wars in France ; he was busily occupied in watching
various groups of his retainers and dependants, who were burnishing
up the partisans and weapons removed from their time-honoured
resting-place against the walls and scattered on the floor.
He was reproving some — for all did not evince the same alacrity
in the cause he had so near at heart — and encouraging others ; his
conversation broken at intervals by snatches of Royalist songs, and

bitter invectives against the Roundheads. By the Cavaliers he was
listened to with pleasure — by the Puritans with sullen respect.
The young had been born, the old grown grey, upon his lands, and
both felt compelled, from the goodness of his heart, to love him.
Indeed, his very appearance was sufficient to command respect.
Tall, and unbent by age, his figure was erect as the integrity of his
mind. His thin white locks, white as the snow-wreath, fell in
natural wavy curls upon his shoulders, contrasting finely with his
black velvet doublet. His countenance was still eminently handsome,
and might have been deemed severe by some, but for the air
of cheerfulness and good humour which pervaded it. Like most
gentlemen of condition of the time, he wore a thickly-twisted chain
of Venetian gold-work round his neck ; from it was suspended a
medallion portrait of the unhappy Charles. He had been for sometime
slowly pacing up and down the tesselated floor, humming the
refrain of the last new song : —

Up, up, with the red-cross flag,

Its folds on the breeze proudly fling,
And swear, while there flutters a rag,

To be true to our country and king.

When the sour, discontented look of old Martin the huntsman,
who had been pressed into the service, and who ought to have been
busily occupied in scouring a cuirass, caught his eye, the knight
broke off both in his walk and his music suddenly.

How, knave ! " he exclaimed, " has the bread thou hast eaten
so many years at Keinton disagreed with thee, that thy lantern
jaws are pinched together like a pair of ill-favoured nutcrackers ?
Is not the war a just war — a most glorious war ? These crop-eared
rascals, with their rights and insolence, would sweat the crown of
England till they made it of no more worth than a paltry German
coronet, if our good king and his nobility would let them."

I don't know," replied the huntsman, slightly moved at his
master's expostulation ; "some say the war is sinful."

Sinful be hem, hem ! " coughed the knight, recollecting

just in time that he was a justice of the peace, and that swearing
did not become his white hairs. " What put that fool's crotchet in
thy head ? — have I traitors here at Keinton ? "

There was a pause. Most of the yeomen looked up from their
work, for they saw that the speaker was angry. One of them at
last ventured to observe that Margery — old Martin's wife — was a
constant attendant at the sermons of Master Gobmouth, an Independent
minister.

Gobmouth ! " repeated Sir Malcolm, " the ranting, roaring
villain."

He is a good man," replied Martin, firmly, but respectfully,
and follows the light vouchsafed."

And whose light do you follow ? " said his master, getting more
and more irritated ; " your wife's apron-string ? You are a fool
for being nose-led by her ; but it makes good the words of the old
song," and he began humming the popular air of

The parson met the huntsman's wife
Down by the willow-tree.

Master," exclaimed the old servitor, starting to his feet and
dashing the cuirass upon the ground, " I will not fight the battle
of Belial against the liberties of my country, lest the hand of the
Lord should smite me."

What says the knave ? "

The huntsman repeated his declaration.

Thou knowest the consequences," said the aged Royalist, with
difficulty controlling his passion.

"I can guess them," replied the poor fellow.

Thou hast broken service," continued the knight ; " and I break
tenure. As lord of the manor of Keinton, I dispossess thee of thy
lands and tenement, thy wife of her couvert dower in them, and
thy children of their dot ; and that they never may return to thee
or thine, I grant them, in common right, for ever, to the village of
Keinton, on the payment of twelve silver marks and a main of
gamecocks yearly. Bailiff," he added, turning to that officer, who
stood near him, "take a party of men and eject him at once."

That's hard, Sir Malcolm," observed Martin, " after so many
years' service ; but no matter : service is no heritage, and I must
e'en submit. Give me, at least, till tomorrow."

Not an hour," replied the old man, sternly.

Why, then, Sir Malcolm, farewell ; look to your own rooftree,
since in your pride you have uprooted mine. I have served you
faithfully, followed you unhesitatingly, till the word of God rose
between me and my obedience. He whose command I have obeyed
will one day judge between us."

With these words, the indignant Martin left the hall, amid the
deep silence of his friends, many of whom shared his opinions and
sympathies.

The knight was no longer in a humour for singing ; he felt
severely annoyed at the incident. Example, he felt, was necessary
to crush the growing disaffection amongst his people ; and he
determined to persevere, even though he secretly afforded the
delinquent the means of establishing himself in a distant part of
the country.

While still labouring under the unpleasant excitement the event
had caused, Wilton made his appearance. Sir Malcolm felt it as a
relief, and cordially held out his hand to him.

Well," he exclaimed, " have you seen Mary ? "

Yes, I HAVE seen her," replied the unhappy lover, with a sigh #

"Yes, I have seen her," repeated the maiden's father, in a
querulous tone. " What a sigh was there ! Shame, Wilton, shame !
Why, in my youthful days, when the warm blood ran frolic in my
veins, I held a sigh as treason to my manhood."
You were happy."

And are not you ? " demanded his host ; " or has your passion
cooled, and is the prospect of your union with my child less
grateful to you ? "

Less grateful to me ! " exclaimed the youth. " Ask the parched
traveller if the well is grateful to his sight — the starving wretch if
food be welcome to his craving lips ! Dearer far than both to me
were Mary's love, yet can she ne'er be mine ! "

How ! have I been trifled with ? " exclaimed the irascible old
man. " Tis well, Master of Wilton, 'tis well. My child is not a
beggar ; I need not thrust her on you. Methinks you might have
found a fitter man to pass this slight upon."
Be patient."

Patient ! The loss is not so great but I can bear it. My child,
the heiress of my wealth, need not go a-begging for a husband, sir.
Are you a boy — to sue, and pray, and ask my daughter's hand as fora
toy, when granted, to be cast by ? "

Hear me ! " said the agitated lover ; " imagination cannot paint,
e'en in its wildest dream, a gift more fair than Mary's hand, a richer
treasure than her heart. Malignant fate hath placed the cup of
bliss within my reach to dash it from my lips — she loves another."
Another ! " repeated the Royalist ; " my child, whose life hath
been devoted to my happiness, would never dare to love unless I

bade her ! I'll shut my door against her — I'll "

Forgive her," interrupted Wilton ; " love may not be controlled ;
it is a flower which springs spontaneously in the youthful heart —
culture will seldom rear it."

His name — the villain's name ? " demanded her father.
Her lips will tell thee that — I came to plead her cause, not to
betray her."

At this moment a low musical laugh in the porch announced that
the fair girl was near.

Wilton started, and hastily pressing the old knight's hand,
whispered to him :

Farewell ! I dare not see her more, lest her beauty, and the
pangs of blighted hope, should torture me to madness. Give her
my blessing, father ; say that Wilton sacrifices all his heart's young
dream of love to friendship and to Mary's happiness."

The musical laugh again rang in the speaker's ear. Instead of
quitting the great hall by the porch, he hastily disappeared by one
of the smaller doors under the oak gallery.

Sir Malcolm was pacing hurriedly up and down the floor when
Mary entered. She saw in a moment that something had occurred

to ruffle her father's temper ; and her heart too well divined the
cause. Approaching the old man, she would have thrown her
arms around his neck, had not his angry look restrained her.
Herbert, who accompanied her, turned pale, for he felt that the
crisis of his love was near at hand.

Is it possible, Mary," said her parent, " that you have deceived
your father ? Or is it but a lover's jealous whim has got in Wilton's
brain by mere conceit, or born of idle rumours ? "

The agitated girl, who saw that all was discovered, inclined her
eyes upon the ground to hide the gush of tears which filled them,
and could only sob the name of " Father ! "

Hear me," said Herbert ; "if there is crime in the concealment,
that crime, sir, is mine. At the home of our mutual relative, the
Countess of Derby, I first beheld your daughter ; need I say that to
behold and love her were the same ? My name is not ignoble ; my
rank and wealth equal to Wilton's — though both, I own, are worthless
weighed against the merits of your matchless child."

The speaker threw himself upon his knees before the old knight ;
and Mary, unable longer to contain her emotion, threw herself
sobbing upon his bosom as if her heart would break. Despite her
father's resistance, her arms still fondly clung to him, and he felt
her warm tears gushing upon his cheeks. He was evidently deeply
moved. She was the pearl of his life, the light of his existence, and
he yearned to embrace and bless her. Probably he had not yielded
so soon, had not one of his household that moment entered and
informed him that the Master of Wilton had not only left the
manor-house, but had given orders to his men to join the army of
the Roundheads encamped at a short distance from the village. To
complete his offence, Martin, the rebellious huntsman, accompanied
him.

The rascally turn-coat ! " exclaimed the lord of Keinton ; " I
was a fool to expect a buzzard-egg to produce a generous falcon.
Don't weep, Mary — he is not worth it — don't weep. After all my
arguments and lessons, too ! There, sir knight," he added, " take
her ; that is," he continued, correcting himself, for the words which
consigned her to another fell like a death-knell on his heart, " take
my forgiveness ; and in a few years, perhaps, or when the old man
is dead, my treasure may be yours."

The lovers were too discreet to quarrel with this limited permission,
which they well knew would soon be extended at their
prayers, and were profuse in the expression of their gratitude.

This has been a day ! " muttered Sir Malcolm to himself, after
kissing the blushing Mary's cheek, and whispering her to retire
from the hall. "Come, young sir, help me to see my levies
mustered on the lawn. This disaffection of Wilton's has sadly
thinned them, though. It will be time enough to talk of marriage,"
he added, petulantly, " when the wars are ended."

.tit an early hour on the following morning a party of Cavaliers,
wearing only their side-arms, were clustered on a spot of broken
ground situated at the foot of Edge Hill, on which the Royal army
was encamped. One only of the party was seated, who was
evidently, from the deference paid him, and the richness of his
dress, a personage of high, if not Royal, rank. He was in the very
prime of manhood, and wore his moustache and beard in that
picturesque fashion which Vandyke has rendered familiar to our
readers ; a collar of the richest Spanish lace fell over his curiously
embroidered vest, between which and the inlaid cuirass an inch or
two of the broad ribbon of the Garter might be seen. His finely
formed features denoted great energy of character, courage, and
privity ; the expression about the mouth was rather cruel, till the
smile redeemed it, when his countenance became absolutely
fascinating. With the point of his sword he was amusinghimself
by drawing rapidly rough outlines of men and horses on the
ground, which he did with no ordinary skill. This last trait of
character alone would have been sufficient to identify Prince
Rupert, the nephew of the king. The gentlemen standing near
him were the Earl of Lindsay, Sir Jacob Astley, and Lord Wilmot ;
they were waiting to receive commissioners from the Earl of Essex,
who commanded the forces of the Parliament, and who was
anxious, if possible, to spare the effusion of human blood, and treat
for peace.

Think you the rebels will treat, my lords ? " demanded the
prince.

If they are wise they will," replied Lindsay. " Our late welcome
reinforcements, and the advantage of our position, render, with
common prudence, victory certain."

I think so too," chimed in the burly Sir Jacob Astley. " Essex
is a sly fox, who loves not the odds against him. Were Cromwell
with the rebels, I should fear a different result."

Cromwell is with them," interrupted the prince. " Our spies
informed me he arrived last night, deputed by the Parliament to
watch o'er Essex, whose delay has lost him many friends."

"If so," observed Lindsay, " doubtless we shall see him."

A trumpet announcing the approach of the Parliamentarians
broke off the conversation, and in a few moments the messengers
approached. The foremost was a man already in the prime of life,
thick-set and ungraceful in his appearance, his countenance heavy,
and not at all improved by the large wart which grew upon his
nose. He wore the dress peculiar to .the regiment called the
Ironsides " ; in fact, it was no other than their celebrated commander,
the giant Cromwell. His companions were Sir William
Balfour and Sir Philip Stapleton.

Which is the man," demanded Cromwell, unceremoniously
stalking up to the party of Royalists, " styled the Prince Rupert ? "

I am," answered his highness, without deigning to rise from
the bank on which he had been sitting. " Thy name, I think, is
Cromwell ? "

I need not blush to answer to it," replied the future Protector,
with something like a tone of pride in his strong voice.

"Could courage wipe away the stain of treason," added the
prince, " thine enemies might bear witness to thy worth."

If my own heart approves," interrupted the Puritan, " I value
not the censure of men's tongues. Words cannot change the
quality of things ; praise cannot make our vices virtues, or blame
make virtues vices. When this great struggle's past, and history's
page has told their fate who bore a part in it, our children's children
may read my character. But we waste time," he added, abruptly ;
to the purpose of our conference."

Rupert, far from being offended with the rough, soldier-like
manner of the man with whom he was so soon to measure strength,
gazed on him for a few moments with a species of silent admiration ;
for the speaker's usually dull, heavy countenance, when excited,
became animated, and the expression of his quick, grey eye restless
as a caged tiger's.

You have received the terms," said his highness, " vouchsafed
by your outraged monarch — are they accepted ? "

No — one article is wanting."

Isn't for the lives and fortunes of the rebel leaders ? " demanded
the burly Sir Jacob Astley.

A quiet, half-satirical smile flitted for a moment round the iron
mouth of Cromwell as he answered : " No, let Charles confirm the
nation's liberty — renounce his vain pretensions to despotic rule —
acknowledge the justice of the Parliament — disband his sacrilegious
troops assembled in arms against it, and we once more receive him
as our king."

It is not to be supposed that the speaker was sincere even in
offering these hard conditions, which he well knew Charles would
sooner perish than accept ; but, as he held no absolute command,
he was obliged to conform himself to the instructions both of the
Parliament and Essex.

Madman ! " exclaimed Rupert, " see you not the Royal troops,
their bright helmets flashing in the sun ? See where the standard
floats upon Edge Hill ; thousands of noble hearts encircle it, eager
to write their master's triumph in the rebels' blood."

Few nobles grace our cause," replied the grim leader of the
Roundheads, in an accent of bitterness, not unmingled with
contempt. " From the anvil and the loom, the plough and scythe,
our soldiers come. But they have arms strengthened by honest
labour — hearts firm in the righteous cause."

As neither party were sincere in their wish to treat, but merely
acted in obedience to the commands of others, it was useless to
vol. in. C 2

continue the conference further ; it was finally broken off by
Prince Rupert, who started from his seat, and calling to his companions
"To horse ! " added, with a contemptuous look towards the
Puritans, that for them the hour of mercy was no more.

Mercy," said Cromwell, coolly, as his highness rode away, " is
for the beaten. Time will decide."

With these words he thoughtfully retraced his footsteps towards
the bottom of the hill, where Essex, with his troops drawn up in
battle array, expected him.

CHAPTER II.

Heard you the din of battle bray.
Lance to lance, and horse to horse 1
Long years of havoc urge their destin'd course,

And through the kindred squadrons mow their way. — Gray.

On the plain which crowns the summit of Edge Hill, protected
by a wood which formed a sort of natural rampart round it, stood a
gaily decorated pavilion, constructed partly of painted canvas and
partly of scarlet cloth. It was much larger than the rest of the tents
forming the encampment, and stood isolated from them by the
distance of at least a bow-shot on either side. Curtains of rich
"Utrecht velvet, embroidered with the arms of Engknd, hung
before the principal entrance — they were raised occasionally to
permit the egress or ingress of some steel-clad personage wearing
the ensigns of military command. Groups of soldiers, armed in
the light morion and cuirass of the time, were scattered in picturesque
groups before the pavilion ; some were lazily lying at full
length upon the sward, speculating on the probability of a battle ;
others occupied in drinking and playing at games of dice ; while
those who were on duty were drawn up in line close to the
entrance of the royal tent, not only to prevent intruders, but to
render military honours to the various commanders as they
arrived. Richly caparisoned steeds, picketed or held by grooms in
quaint liveries, gave animation to the scene.

Here comes Rupert," exclaimed Charles Leslie, a young gentleman
of good family who had taken service as a simple volunteer
in the royal army. " By the impatience with which he spurs that
fiery barb of his, there must be good news. My sword-knot to a
testoon but we have a battle ! "

Done ! " cried two or three of the men, eagerly. " Lord
Falkland is with the king ; and he hates fighting more than the
devil loves a Puritan. There will be no battle if he can prevent
it,"

The words had scarcely escaped the speaker's lips, when Prince
Rupert, attended by Lord Wilmot, Sir Jacob Astley, Lindsay,

Herbert of Cranfield, and a gallant train of Cavaliers, dashed
furiously up the hill, his horse reeking with foam, and those of his
companions in no better condition. He had just returned from his
interview with the leaders of the Parliamentary forces, and came
to warn his royal uncle to prepare for battle.

So sudden was his appearance that the various groups occupied
in conversation or in gaming had scarcely time to start out of his
path as he galloped towards the entrance of the pavilion. The
noble horse was at its full speed, and must have crushed a knot of
three busily engaged at dice, had not the prince, foreseeing their
danger, given the noble animal the spur, and leaped gallantly over
them. A loud shout of admiration from the men, with whom the
reckless courage and liberality of the rider had made him a
favourite, applauded the feat. As his highness threw the rein of
his panting steed to half a dozen grooms, who sprang forth to
receive it at the entrance of the tent, the draperied entrance was
raised to admit him and his followers.

In the inner compartment of the tent were about a dozen men
seated at a council-board, at the upper end of which Charles
presided in person. The doomed monarch's features wore that
melancholy expression which it has frequently been observed was
peculiar to his race. Although in the very prime of manhood, here
and there a silver hair might be detected in the long dark ringlets
which fell upon his shoulders — his moustache and pointed beard
as yet were free from them. Lord Digby, Sir John Byron, and
several noblemen and gentlemen of less note, filled up the council-board.


Now, nephew," mildly demanded the king, as the impatient
Rupert, followed by Lindsay and Sir Jacob Astley, entered the tent,
what say our misguided subjects ? Is it peace or war ? "

War," replied the headstrong soldier ; " manly, glorious war.
The insolent fever of the rebels requires blood-letting, my dear
liege, to tame their madness. Their demands rise with their peril,
as if they fancied to out bluster us and win by words alone. I will
not insult your royal dignity," he added, " by repeating the conditions
which they have the insolence to offer."

Hear them, my gracious master ! " exclaimed the nervous
Falkland ; " hear them, for the sake of the blood which must else
this day be shed — for the homes which must else be desolate.
Hear them," he continued, " for the honour of your crown — the
memory of your oath to God and your misled people ! "

A frown passed over the flushed brow of the young prince as
Charles mildly declared that he would hear them.

Hear them then, my lord ! " cried Rupert, fiercely ; " to you I
repeat them, for I will not stain my knightly honour so far, or
insult my uncle's royal dignity so much, as to whisper them to the
king. These rascals who have thrown off all authority — these

rebels, who have broken all allegiance, will return to it again on
three conditions."

Name them," said Charles.

First," continued the young man, still addressing himself to
Lord Falkland, for he was determined not to repeat the conditions
to the king, " they demand that his majesty acknowledges the
justice of the Parliament, or, in other words, that he places his
kingly crown under the Speaker's hat. Secondly, that he disbands
his army ; doubtless that they may the more leisurely uproot the
Church, and limit his prerogative. Thirdly, that he confirms the
people's liberties, which means that they should yield obedience
to no laws save their own."

Were such their offers ? " demanded the king, his usually pale
features flushed with indignation ; " why, then, indeed my lords,
further counsel will be useless. Were my foot upon the scaffold,
I should blush to grant them ; at the head of a gallant army, I
should be a coward to receive them. To horse, my lords ! Since
the sword must end it, the sooner it is drawn the better."

In a few minutes all was bustle and confusion. Nothing could
be heard but the heavy roll of the artillery as it moved along,
unless it was the shrill trumpet calling the different regiments to
their positions in the field. Horsemen were to be seen dashing
about in every direction, and compact bodies of foot marching to
the brow of the hill which overlooked the valley below — known
by the name of the Valley of the Red Horse — soon to be watered
with the blood of those whose labour should have tilled it.

In the space of three hours the rival armies were drawn up in
battle array ; for the first time, in the memory of man, Englishmen
about to encounter Englishmen. They knew that the contest, from
the spirit which animated either armies, would be a bloody one.
During the pause, Charles, attended by a brilliant staff, might be
seen riding through the ranks, encouraging the soldiers, who
replied to his address with enthusiastic shouts.

Sire," cried the impatient Rupert, who commanded the cavalry,
let us not wait till the rebels have brought up all their men ; it
wastes the courage of our troops. Now is the time to charge."

Falkland looked imploringly on the king, and whispered :

Sire, remember your promise."

I will remember it," said the monarch, aloud ; " in this fratricidal
contest, my sword shall not be the first to shed the blood of
Englishmen. Wait till the measure of their crime shall be
complete."

At the moment the roar of the enemy's artillery announced that
they had commenced the contest ; they had evidently marked the
portion of the ground where the king was riding, since all their
shot was directed to that one spot. Major Holland fell dead at his
royal master's side, and several of his attendants were wounded.

Charge ! " exclaimed the king, raising himself in his stirrups,
to encourage his troops, by showing them that he-was unhurt ;
the hour of forbearance is past."

Waving his hand in token of adieu, the impetuous Prince Rupert
galloped along the lines, and placed himself at the head of the
cavalry, by whom he was received with three hearty cheers — for
they loved the headlong courage of their leader. The left wing of
the enemy, which was immediately opposed to them, returned the
cry by a sullen one of stern defiance. Cromwell, who served rather
as a volunteer than a commander, was in the midst of them.

For God and the king ! " shouted Rupert, dashing down the
hill, followed by all the cavalry.

For God and the people ! " repeated the troops of the Parliament,
carrying their ranks, and standing firmly to meet them.
The shock was terrific ; the horsemen, from their elevated position,
descended with the impetuosity of an avalanche upon the plain,
and the front rank of the Puritans was broken ; those in the rear,
with silent determination, supplied their place, and in a few
moments they presented the same compact steel-breasted wall to
the long swords and lances of the Cavaliers. A muttered prayer,
and occasionally a groan, as they were trampled beneath the hoofs
of the heavy steeds, was all that escaped from the fallen.

Close, men ! " exclaimed a deep voice from the midst of them.
Remember the might of the Lord is with us."

At this moment the artillery began to play on either side, and
the din became terrific. The brazen-mouthed cannon belched forth
their lightning and their mimic thunder. Yells of triumph and
groans of anguish mingled with and occasionally rose above their
roar. Hell seemed unchained ; and pitying angels saw, with half-averted
eyes, the brother's hand red with the brother's blood.

As the eagle which has missed its swoop wheels round on airy
wing to regain its prize, so did Rupert draw off with his cavalry, to
form them again in line, and prepare for a second charge. As they
swept in a semicircle round the valley, the rays of the sun rested
on their burnished armour, and they appeared like a moving stream
of fire. Their enemy, not understanding this manoeuvre, thought
that, dispirited by the partial failure of their first attack, they were
retreating, and began to ascend the hill. This error was fatal to
them. Rupert, with his cavalry, charged them a second time, in
the flank, when, despite their cool courage and determined
resistance, the Parliamentarians at last gave way ; their lines were
broken, and that part of the field became the scene of personal
encounter man to man. Many of the Puritans, even in the death
struggle, inflicted a fearful retaliation upon their enemies. Unable
to reach their bodies, from their elevated position on horseback,
they struck with their long swords at the thighs and legs of the
Cavaliers, many of whom fell terribly wounded from their steeds,

and were instantly despatched. Incensed at the obstinacy of the
Roundheads, and the carnage of his men, the prince gave the word
for indiscriminate slaughter. Then commenced one of those fearful
scenes which have few parallels, except in civil war, where men
are more cruel than in ordinary battle. Spurring their well-trained
steeds, they made them rear and plunge till they absolutely rode
their victims down ; no mercy was shown ; the victors seemed to
forget that they were men, and their horses' hoofs were deep in
the blood and carnage of that unnatural scene.

In the midst of the combatants a sturdy figure might be seen,
his features half-blackened with toil and smoke, wielding a long
heavy weapon, which swept like the destroying angel's sword,
leaving a circle of carcases to mark its range. So fearful was the
execution that the Cavaliers hesitated to approach him, and many
of the discomfited Puritans were rallying round him. Rupert
perceived the necessity of at once crushing so formidable an
antagonist, whose desperate courage might yet retrieve the day,
and dashed towards him, sword in hand, calling upon him to
defend himself, for he had too high a sense of honour to take even
an enemy unawares. Cromwell, for indeed it was no other than
that extraordinary man, stepped on one side to avoid the shock of
the horse, which he contrived to wound severely as it passed him.
The noble animal threw itself back upon its haunches, and, after
striving to regain its balance, fell. The Puritan rushed forward to
complete his victory, but the agility of the rider saved him.
Extricating himself from the stirrups before his antagonist could
reach him, he stood firmly planted on the bloodstained sward,
prepared to continue the combat. The encounter was long and
desperate ; twice were they separated by the flying masses of the
charging cavalry ; but, with the instinct of bloodhounds, they
contrived to meet each other again. Rupert, who sprang from side
to side with the agility of a leopard to avoid the mighty blows, a
single one of which would have crushed him, pierced at last the
sword-arm of his antagonist, who, feeling that he was losing blood,
warily turned from the attack to the defensive ; but his weapon
broke at last against the well-tempered Spanish blade of the prince,
about a foot from the hilt, and he stood, unarmed and defenceless,
at his mercy. The liberties of England at that moment hung upon
a thread. Calm and collected, their sturdy champion stood glaring
like a wounded tiger at bay upon his foe, whose arm was upraised
to strike, when a retreating party of Puritans interposed, and
warded off the blow. With a devotion approaching to religious
enthusiasm, some of them turned and faced the prince and the
few Cavaliers who had gathered round him, while the rest hurried
their wounded champion from the field. The former were cut to
pieces to a man.

By this time the rout of the left wing had become general.

They fled in broken masses from the field, pursued by the
victorious cavalry, who, instead of returning to attack the right,
where Essex commanded in person, recklessly pursued the fugitives
beyond the Valley of the Red Horse, nor drew rein till they
reached the village of Keinton, where they uselessly fell upon
the rear-guard left by the Parliamentarians with the baggage
train.

Mary Keinton, with her cousin Rachel, were anxiously listening
on the terrace, whose old-fashioned balustrades and leaden statues
extended to the shrubbery. Although so far removed from the
scene of action, they could distinctly hear the roaring of the
cannonade, which from hill to vale by echo was repeated, as if
Nature, indignant at the outrage on her solitude, scoffed at the
mimic thunder.

Dear Mary ! " exclaimed her cousin, a light-hearted girl, who
for years had shared her confidence and love e'en as a sister, " why
so sad ? Herbert will return in safety. I feel assured he will.
Would I were a man for your sake ! you should not pine in this
uncertainty."

What wouldst thou, coz ? " demanded the maiden, with a faint
smile.

Ride to the field and bring thee word how went the day."

Wert thou a man, indeed," replied her cousin, " thou wouldst
think more of the honour to be won there than a love-sick maiden's
tears. Oh ! this dread of ill," she added, pacing impatiently to the
extreme end of the gravel walk, " is worse, much worse, than ill
confirmed. I fancy him wounded — bleeding — trampled with the
slain — no hand to close his dying eyes — no faithful bosom to pillow
his dying head."

Hush ! " whispered Rachel, laying her finger, " someone is
crouching in the shrubbery. There, again ! Saw you not the
flashing of his armour through the trees ? "

Scarcely knowing whom or what to expect, the fair girls stood
still, watching with breathless terror the cause of their alarm.
Presently a heavy-looking man, grasping in his hand a shivered
sword, broke through the underwood — he was wounded, but
seemed overcome more by fatigue than loss of blood. Staggering
to the fountain close to the terrace, he sank upon his knees, and
began bathing his blood-stained features in the refreshing stream,
from which he twice took a long and hearty draught.

"He is wounded," whispered Mary, "and his sword is broken.
Shall I question him ? Should he attempt us injury, we have time
to reach the house ere he could climb the terrace."

Her cousin would have dissuaded her from the attempt, but the
heart of the speaker was too deeply interested to heed the lesson
of prudence even from her lips.

Hist ! hist ! stranger ! " she exclaimed.

The intruder looked up calmly, and regarded her. From his
quiet manner she felt encouraged to proceed.

You are from the army ? " she continued. " Hath there not
been a battle ? "

There hath."

And the Royal cause ? "

Hath triumphed," bitterly replied the man. " Victory hath
left the people's side, and, like a courtier, truckled to the king's."

Thank Heaven ! " exclaimed both the fair girls at once ; for, to
their simple understanding, it seemed as if the victory of Charles
assured the triumph of his cause and the safety of those they
loved ; " the soldiers of the Parliament are fallen ! "

To rise again ! " exclaimed the Puritan, his eye flashing with
sudden energy ; " refreshed with giant strength. Heaven will yet
protect the righteous banner, and decide between them."

Thou art no Royalist ! "

Lady, I am an unworthy soldier of the people."

At this moment the clatter of distant horsemen was faintly
heard hallooing and calling to each other as they rode through the
wood at the back of the shrubbery.

The fugitive heard the sound without seeming in the least
degree alarmed, although he must have considered it as the signal
of his death. Placing his back against a tree, and grasping his
broken weapon in his hand, he calmly awaited the arrival of his
pursuers. The two cousins, who had watched him, felt terrified
at his danger, and each demanded of the other if they could not
save him. Courage and resignation seldom fail to excite sympathy
and admiration in the heart of woman.

Fly," cried Rachel ; " there is danger here."

I know it," quietly answered the Puritan ; " my pursuers are
at hand. I am wounded, and my horse is past its master's service.
If my hour has come, I can die here."

By this time the cries of the Royalists approached much nearer,
and Mary, overcome with pity, asked the stern fugitive why he had
not sought their aid. The stranger turned and gazed upon her with
an inquiring eye.

From your rich apparel I judge you noble ; from your speech
Royalists. Such," he added, turning from her coldly, " have no
sympathy for the cause I bleed for."

None for the cause," she exclaimed, " but much for the unfortunate.
Thou seest yon door," she added, pointing down the terrace ;
there, b} T the broken balustrade ?"

I do."

There is the key. Haste, while there is time to shelter thee."

The fair girl dropped the key at the feet of the Puritan as she
spoke, who, in less time than from his wounded condition they
judged it possible, stood, still grasping his broken weapon in his

hand, beside them on the terrace. It was impossible to gaze on
his stern, heavy features, without being struck by their singular
expression ; cold resolution, cunning, and enthusiasm were
mingled in his countenance ; each seemed, by turns, to present the
master-key to his powerful mind.

Lady," he demanded, " how can I thank thee ? "

The fair girl fixed her eyes upon him with an expression of reproach
that he had doubted her humanity, as she replied to him :

"By judging better of thy fellow-creatures. And if, in this unnatural
war, success should ever crown thy sword, by remembering
mercy in the hour of triumph."

i" will remember it I " exclaimed the Puritan, in a deep voice,
which slightly vibrated with emotion as he spoke. " Lady, mine
is no courtly tongue to deal in honeyed phrase. I thank thee for
my life preserved — it yet may serve my country ; but for the doubt
which wronged thy generous nature, I crave a Christian's
pardon."

Raising the hand of Mary to his lips, he bent gravely over it and
saluted it.

Without wasting the time in further compliments, the stranger
was conveyed into the house by the back portal, which opened on
the terrace, and which the cousins did not forget to bar carefully
after them. The windows of all the lower rooms, except the great
hall, and a species of ante-room under the oaken gallery, had been
securely barred, and the furniture judiciously piled up against
them, in order that the old knight and his household might ba
prepared for any sudden attack, should the Parliamentarians prove
victorious. In this ante-room they left the Puritan, first barring the
door of communication between it and the hall, in case of danger
there, and placing a large screen, too, behind which he could retreat;
that done, they mounted to the upper part of the house by a private
staircase, and descended to the hall by the great one, in time to hear
the old knight storming and raging furiously.

Dear father," exclaimed Mary, throwing one arm round his
neck, and placing her hand upon his sword, which, in his anger,
he was vainly attempting to draw, " what means this violence ? and
who are these gentlemen ? "

The persons alluded to were several of Prince Rupert's cavalry,
who had dismounted at the gate of Keinton Manor, and threatened
to search the house.

The matter, girl ! " repeated the old man, passionately; "thou
wilt be surprised to hear it. Thy father is a traitor ! "

A traitor ! " repeated Mary, in an unsteady voice, for she feared
that the fugitive was now betrayed.

Ay," continued her father, " so these gentleman would make
me out ; I, Sir Malcolm Keinton ! They wish to search my house !
mine, Mary ! Had I not, like a loyal fool, sent those to swell their

ranks who should have stayed at home to guard it, they should
have had a ducking in the moat to cool their courage."

It is impossible to say how the dispute would have ended if
Prince Rupert, attended by Herbert of Cranfield and several of his
officers, had not entered the hall, leaving a still greater number of
their followers outside, picketing their horses upon the lawn.

Despite the presence of so many strangers, Mary sprang from
her father's side to meet her lover.

Who owns this house ? " demanded his highness.

One, prince," replied the master of it, with dignity, " who,
when your royal mother fled from Prague, before the insulting
enemy and her rebellious subjects, protected her retreat to the
Palatinate, and carried you, a child, rolled up in his cloak, upon
his saddle-bow before him. But doubtless," he added, bitterly,
you have forgotten the name of him whose years have outlived
his service."

Then must my heart and memory both be cold as death can
make them," exclaimed Rupert, cordially grasping the speaker by
the hand. " Forgive us, dear Sir Malcolm ! We erred in ignorance,
not in malice. We will at once withdraw."

Not so," exclaimed the knight, whose anger was as easily
appeased as roused ; " not so, prince ; you shall visit the old man's
cellars, and find no other traitors than his well-filled barrels. We
will pledge to Charles's health, and shed their red blood freely. I
cannot serve my king (Heaven bless him !) with my sword, but my
house, my heart, and purse are ever at the service of his brave
defenders. Breaking out into a snatch of a Cavalier song, he added :

' Here's health to King Charles and his cause,
Here's health to each bold Cavalier ;
May the traitor whom prudence makes pause
Lie dishonoured and cold on his bier ! ' "

With a loud shout of approval the proposition of the hospitable
master of the mansion was accepted, and the servants, assisted by
the visitors, hastily removed the massive oaken tables which had
been piled up against the windows for defence. The largest of
these was placed at the end of the hall nearest to the gallery, the
others taken out upon the lawn ; for Sir Malcolm, in the abundance
of his loyalty and hospitality, insisted upon entertaining them
all. The tables were quickly spread with huge flagons of pewter
filled with wine, for the knight had sent all his plate to the king's
mint at Oxford ; and the men, like hungry wolves after an unsuccessful
chase, set to. Mary and her cousin took advantage of the
confusion to withdraw. As they left the hall, they observed old
Martin, the huntsman, lingering round the house with several of
the neighbouring peasants, who had been attracted to the spot from
curiosity. She beckoned him to approach ; in an instant the blunt,

Martin," she whispered, " can I trust you ? "

Trust me, lady ! " repeated the old man, in a voice tremulous
from emotion ; for his pride and feelings were deeply hurt at the
question. " For thirty years I ate of your worthy father's bread,
and drank of his cup. What should I be if the child of Sir Malcolm
Keinton could not trust me ? — unless," he added, " to the
perilling of my soul."

Small fear," said Rachel, " of her risking that."

You know my father's steed, Firefly ? " demanded his young
mistress.

Know it ! " repeated Martin, with a look of surprise — " know
Firefly ? I should think I ought. I broke him when a colt, and —
Heaven pardon me — love him almost as if he were a human thing.
He'll follow me like a dog. You are jesting, lady, when you ask
me if I know Firefly ! "

Lead him round to the wood at the end of the churchyard ;
the path by that side is not yet beset ; and wait till a wounded
officer arrives, whom you will direct to Banbury."

Banbury ! It is in possession of the Parliament, lady,"
observed the old man.

I know it," replied Mary.

The wounded officer is "

One of their leaders."

And thou hast sheltered him ! " exclaimed Martin, gazing upon
her with admiration. " The Spirit of the Lord is working in thee.
Thou shalt live to be a brand snatched from the abominations of
prelacy and darkness — a wife and a mother in Israel. Hadst thou
but listened to that goodly youth, the Master of Wilton "

With a look of surprise the maiden drew up her stately figure,
and demanded of the speaker if the confidence she had reposed in
him had given him the privilege to insult her.

The old man was at once reminded by her words that he was a
menial, and she the daughter of the house of whose bread he had so
long partaken ; and that, however he might love the being whose
tiny feet he had watched take their first feeble step — whom he had
carried in his arms a hundred times, or danced upon his knee —
there were subjects which, even if he believed her happiness
at stake, he was forbidden to touch upon. He bowed his head,
and hastened towards the stables to fulfil her command.

Returning to the hall, where the Cavaliers were drinking loyal
toasts, one after the other, to the great delight of Sir Malcolm
Keinton, she made the best of her way to the ante-room, by the
private staircase, leaving Rachel at the top of the corridor to watch.

With a noiseless step she descended, and entered the chamber
where she had left the fugitive. He was seated in her father's
armchair, with a Bible and sword upon his knees, so absorbed in
prayer and meditation that he heard not the footfall of the fairy

step which approached his lair, nor even the creaking of the door
which opened to it.

Mary paused on the threshold of the door to observe him.

The light from one of the unclosed windows streamed on his
broad, massive head, and softened the general harshness of his
expression. It was far from being a handsome countenance, yet
there was nothing vulgar or common in it. The bristling, overhanging
brows denoted resolution, and the prominent, full eye,
passion. Above the right brow was a large wart, or mole, and a
second on the left side of the nose. We doubt not but our readers
have already suspected who the fugitive really was.

Despise death ! " Mary heard him murmur to himself, in a tone
so low it scarcely reached her ; " thus, in their wisdom, spoke the
Greek and Roman sages. If they could brave it, should the
Christian fear it ? What they but hoped is certainty to me," he
added, leaning reverently over the book whence he had been
drawing consolation.

His protectress, not wishing to play the eavesdropper, made a
slight move with the handle of the door ; the Puritan looked up.

Hush ! " whispered the maiden ; " they are in the hall. There
lies," she added, pointing to the door, " but that slender barrier
between thee and death."

I know it," was the calm reply, " and am prepared to meet it."

With arms ! " exclaimed Mary, pointing to the sword which he
had taken from a pile of weapons in the room.

'• No," said the stranger ; " but with faith. The weapon is for
mortal foes ; here is my shield 'gainst death " ; and he pointed to
the Bible as he spoke. "After ail," he added, "why should the
strong nerves of manhood shrink from life's last foe ? Death
vanquishes, to be himself o'ercome. Good men count their length
of days by deeds — not years. If I have served my country, I have
lived long enough."

It was impossible for Mary, Royalist as she was, not to feel a
sentiment of admiration at the faith, as well as the cool courage, of
the man whom she had saved.

At this moment a loud shout broke from the party in the great
hall ; the health had been drunk to King Charles, and the riotous
Cavaliers, to do honour to the toast, had dashed their glasses
against the door of communication and shattered them to pieces,
determined that they should never be polluted by being filled to a
less worthy toast.

At first, so sudden had been the shock, that Mary thought they
had discovered the retreat of their enemy, and were about to force
an entrance. He evidently thought so too ; for, closing the pages
of the hallowed book, he reverently placed, it in his bosom, and
stood, weapon in hand, prepared for his defence.

Be not rash," whispered his companion ; " it is a false alarm.

Heaven, I am sure, will not permit these hospitable walls to be
stained by the blood of one who has sought their shelter in the
hour of peril. Thou seest the wood," she continued, leading her
guest to the window ; " there, where the tower of the old church
rises between the hills ? "

I do."

Once reach it," she resumed, " and you are safe. I have sent a
trusty messenger with my father's steed Firefly, a horse of matchless
mettle ; use him well for my sake. I must return to the hall, and
when the revel is at its height you may escape."

Heaven speeding me," said the Puritan.

Certes, Heaven speeding thee ! " replied the maiden, with a
smile.

Again did the stranger, in strong but not unpolished phrase,
express his gratitude for the generous shelter he had received, and,
as the fair girl glided from the room, mentally renew the promise
of remembering mercy, as she had requested him.

On entering the hall Mary found the Cavaliers carelessly discussing
over their wine the events of the day.

Come," said Rupert, " we must to horse once more. Perhaps,
even now, we have pursued our enemy further than prudence
would have dictated. If e'er I meet again the rebel Cromwell,"
continued the speaker, in allusion to the late encounter, " he shall
not escape me a second time. Would he were here, that I might
dash my gauntlet in the traitor's face ! "

Suiting the action to the word, the prince cast his embroidered
glove upon the table.

Shortly after the horses were led to the porch, and the party,
leaving the table, walked to the door of the great hall to examine
the condition of their steeds. While their backs were turned, the
door under the gallery communicating with the ante-chamber,
where the Puritan was concealed, was cautiously opened, and an
arm extended to seize the embroidered glove, leaving an iron one
in its place. The exchange was so swiftly and so noiselessly made
that even Mary failed to observe it.

The trumpet had called the men together, and Rupert, after
taking leave of his host, walked to the table to resume his glove ;
when, to his astonishment, he found it gone, and the iron gauntlet
of the Puritan in its place.

"There has been treason here ! " he exclaimed.

The Cavaliers gathered round him, and he raised the token of
defiance in the midst of them.

u This is the gage of some rebel cur," continued the furious
prince.

Can your highness suspect me or mine ? " demanded the knight,
his aged countenance flushed with anger and surprise. "My
loyalty and my honour "

Are beyond suspicion," interrupted Rupert, courteously ; " but
we have all been played upon, baffled, and laughed at."

Glancing hastily round the hall, he observed the entrance
directly under the gallery. " Behold the means," he cried.

A succession of blows from the heavy weapons of his companions
soon demolished the oaken door, and they rushed into the anteroom
; the window was open, and the fugitive escaped.

Without waiting for an explanation, which, in fact, the old
knight would have been puzzled to have given, the party immediately
mounted for the pursuit ; some leaped through the window
to search the shrubbery on foot. For awhile, their shouts to each
other, and wild cries, when they thought they had fallen on the
track, rang through the woods ; but they gradually died away, and
the old mansion was once more left to its solitude and peaceful
inmates.

Mary," exclaimed her father, shaking his grey locks mournfully,
" thou hast dishonoured me ! "

Father ! " said the agitated girl.

Deceived me," he added, sternly, " by concealing a rebel in
my house."

He was wounded, father — bleeding and helpless, therefore no
more an enemy. It was the suffering fellow-creature whom I
saved, and not the traitor to his king. I had sheltered him
thoughtlessly, perhaps — for I might have brought danger on your
venerable head. Could I be base enough," she added, " when the
prince arrived, to have violated the laws of hospitality, and yielded
him to an ignominious death ? You would have been the first to
scorn me. You are not angry with me, father ? "

The speaker threw her white arms round the old man's neck,
and looked up into his eyes with so tearful, so tender a regard, that
it would have been difficult for a sterner nature to resist her ; and,
after all, he thought the fugitive was probably some undistinguished
Roundhead cur, whose safety or death was not worth a second
thought.

Mary, Mary," he replied, kissing her on the forehead, his frown
relaxing at the same time to a smile, " thou shouldst have been a
boy, that I might have found the heart to chide thee. Girls make
fools of their old fathers, and lead them as they will."

Raising the gauntlet from the ground, where Rupert had disdainfully
cast it, Sir Malcolm unlocked an old cabinet in which
he kept the bells of his favourite hawk, his books on the chase,
together with the miscellaneous trifles pertaining to the angler's
craft, and placed it in one of the recesses.

Lie there," he cried. " I may one day find the hand that wore
thee."
m The servants had already begun to clear the hall and move the
flagons, when Martin the huntsman, who had so lately been dismissed

from the knight's service, rushed through the open porch,
exclaiming :

Make fast the doors ! To the tower, Sir Malcolm ! — to the
tower ! — the enemies are at hand ! "

"What means the knave ? " demanded his late master.

That the valiant Essex has, in fact, retrieved the fortune of the
day — that the king's troops are beaten back — and the long guns,
with which he meant to slay the children of the faith and covenant,
taken or spiked ! "

"God forbid ! " said the old man, passionately — "God forbid ! "

The soldiers of the Parliament are already in the village ; they
will soon be here."

Let them come ! " cried the knight, mournfully. " It matters
little that my old roof falls, since the storm has reached my royal
master's head."

And my young lady ! " added the messenger, reproachfully.

The word restored Sir Malcolm to himself. His first orders were
for the domestics to barricade the doors and windows with the
heavy benches ; his second, for them to roll up barrels of wine and
provision to that part of the building known by the name of the
tower. It was of much earlier construction than the rest of the
mansion, it having evidently been left as a place of refuge when
the old castle, upon whose site the present house had been built,
was demolished. A dozen resolute men might keep it against a
hundred enemies, unless provided with artillery.

The preparations had not been long complete before a party of
fifty men, under the conduct of Bars ord, who gladly seized on the
occasion as favourable to his private purposes, appeared before the
mansion. They were stern, resolute fellows, whose long rapiers
were already dyed in the blood which they had shed in the village,
in revenge for the cruelties committed by the troopers of Prince
Rupert upon their waggoners and grooms left with the baggage.
Their leader, knowing that Sir Malcolm had sent most of his
retainers and tenants, under the conduct of Sir Herbert of Cranfield,
to join the king at Edge Hill, was astonished to find the house put
in so respectable a state of defence. After a repeated summons
made by knocking with the pommels of their swords against the
iron-studded door of the hall, the old knight appeared at one of the
windows in the story above, and demanded, according to usage,
the cause of their coming.

"To take possession of Keinton House in the name of the
Parliament," replied. the leader of the Parliamentarians.

Say in the name of the devil ! " repeated the fiery master of the
mansion, whose blood was roused at the sight of the outrage offered
to his dignity, " and you shall enter it as soon. With my own
hands I'd sooner give Keinton to the flames than see it a nest for
traitors."

VOL III. D 2

To the flames it shall be given," the leader of the assailants
replied, " unless you speedily admit us."

The Lord hath hardened their hearts," exclaimed Gobmouth,
the preacher, who was one of the party, " that they may be
delivered to thee as a spoil, even as the Egyptians were delivered
unto Moses."

What," said the knight, as soon as he recognised the speaker,
who, with several of his fanatical followers, had joined himself
with Barford for the destruction of the hall, " do I see men of
Keinton — men who were born on my own lands — in arms against
me ? Is there one amongst you," he added, in a voice which
faltered more from emotion than age, " who ever found in me a
harsh master, or received injustice at my hands ?"

Martin ! Martin ! " cried several of the men.

For the first time, perhaps, in his life, Sir Malcolm suspected
that he had been too hasty, and repented of his excessive loyalty.

"Ah ! " added the fellows, "you are silent."

Because," said the old huntsman, who, with his carbine, had
ensconced himself behind the parapet over the lofty porch, " Martinis
here to answer for himself."

The Puritans gave three cheers when they recognised him ; they
thought that they had discovered a friend in the camp of their
enemy.

Come down, come down ! " they cried.

I am very well where I am," answered the fellow, quietly.

Open the doors," said Barford.

The knight caught up a fowling-piece which lay near', doubtful
of the intentions of his former servitor, and was in the act of bringing
it to his shoulder, when Mary laid her hand upon his arm.

My life, father," she whispered, " upon the old man's faith ! "

Martin, who saw the action, brushed a tear from his small,
twinkling eyes. His young mistress had ever been to him as the
life-blood of his heart. He had taught her to ride, and carried her,
when a child, in his arms a thousand times ; felt her tiny hands
clasped round his weather-beaten neck — nay, even been kissed by
her. No wonder that he loved her.

Is this thy regeneration ? " exclaimed the preacher, addressing
him ; " unworthy mate of that blessed saint, that redeemed vessel,
thy pious wife, how wilt thou meet her ? "

Martin winced, for the pious vessel was a terrible virago, of
whom he stood considerably in awe ; but a glance of the bright
blue eye of his darling mistress reassured him, and he coolly
cocked his piece.

One of the men approached the door with a petard, which he
placed against the fastenings, and prepared to light the f see, when
crack went the gun of the huntsman, and he fell a corpse before
the porch. Gobmouth instantly took to his heels and fled.

CHAPTER III.

A SHOUT of triumph arose from the besieged on witnessing the
fall of a man who had so daringly advanced to light the petard
fixed to the well-barred gates of Keinton Manor, whilst a feeling of
dismay stole over the spirits of the Puritans as they beheld one of
the most courageous of their champions fall. Knowing that the
old knight had sent the greater part of his retainers and serving-men
to swell the ranks of Charles, Bars ord expected to find an easy
prize in the unguarded house, and a defenceless victim in its beautiful
heiress, whom he loved with that coarse, brutal passion which,
in selfish, earthly natures like to his usurps the seat of a pure,
generous love.

"Well aimed, old Martin!" shouted Sir Malcolm from the
window to the lately disgraced huntsman : " that shot has settled
more scores than the rascally ungrateful Roundhead's who was born
upon my lands, and has eaten of my bread ; it makes a clean page
between us for the past."

Ay ay ! Sir Malcolm," replied the sturdy yeoman, who perfectly
understood the knight's humour, and from whom such a
speech was tantamount to " forget and f oi^give." " There's a difference
between flying in the face of God's law and defending a kind
master. I'll fight for the old house and my dear young mistress
while I can pull a trigger. Back ! " he exclaimed, once more
levelling his rifle and covering the person of Barford, who was
advancing towards the door with a lighted fusee ; " don't trust to
your armour. I seldom miss my aim. There's not a rivet in it
that at forty paces, old as I am, I could not clench upon the head.
Advance the breadth of a deer's hoof beyond the sundial, and I
send the bullet through your brain."

Fire, Martin ! " exclaimed the owner of the mansion ; " rid the
world of that beggarly psalm-singing traitor, and hold thy lands in
fee for ever."

Not for Keinton Manor," muttered the retainer to himself,
without necessity ; but if he pass the line, his blood be on his
own head ! "

The Puritan looked up, and as he caught the small, round, grey
"eye of the huntsman fixed upon him with an expression there could
be no mistaking, and saw the polished barrel of the rifle glittering
in the sunbeams above his head, his resolution failed him, and he
retreated backwards to his men.

A mocking shout of mingled triumph and derision arose from
the besieged ; it was followed by a volley from the serving-men,
so well directed, that it stretched five of the assailants upon the
lawn. Before they could reload, Barford and his party had
retreated to the shelter of the shrubbery — retreated as the panther

retreats, disappointed in its first spring, to make the next more
certain.

Thank Heaven they are gone ! " sighed Mary, who, with a pale
cheek, but flashing eye, had stood during the brief contest by her
father. " The sight of blood has sickened me."

Hurry, girls, to the tower — to the tower ! This is no game for
silk-kirtles to take a hand in," exclaimed Sir Malcolm Keinton.
You will be out of reach there. Without artillery, I defy the
crop-haired knaves to take it."

Do you go with us, father ? " quietly demanded Mary.

"What ! " said the old soldier, "retreat before the outposts are
assailed ? Make, like a maimed fox, to cover at the first yelping
of the hounds ? Wouldst have the rascals spit on my escutcheon ?
No ! foot by foot will I defend the old house against the king's
enemies and my own. So, away with you ! "

In that case I shall remain beside you," replied his daughter ;
there will be time for me to retreat to the tower for shelter when
you do."

Tush, girl, tush ! Dost think a fair skin a charm to turn a
ball ? "

"As like to do so as your grey hairs, dear father," she cried,
throwing her arms around the veteran's neck. " Do not, pray do
not ask me to leave you ; suspense would kill me ; — fear not my
woman's terrors shall disgrace you. You know," she added, " I
am no Court-bred maiden to start at dangers, whose stern presence
would less appal me than their distant echoes. I cannot leave you."

The tone of deep, earnest feeling with which the fair girl declared
her resolution of remaining by her old father's side brought tears
into his eyes, for his nature was inwardly as soft and kind as his
speech and outward bearing were rough and soldier-like.

Consider, Mary," he faltered, " the danger."

I have considered," she replied ; " it is less terrible than
separation."

At this moment old Martin — who, on the retreat of the Puritans,
had made his way from the porch through the long gallery to the
apartment where the knight and his daughter were conversing —
presented himself before them. He entered the room with the air
of a man conscious that he had done something to merit praise,
but too modest to desire it.

So, Martin," said Sir Malcolm, " it seems that although you will
not take arms in the cause of your king, you can at least pull a
trigger to defend your master and his child."

"As long as I have strength to do so," was the quiet reply.

Well, well, we will reckon together yet," said the knight, kindly.
•• But what brings you from your post ? You are too old a soldier
to suppose the enemy will not return."

Small fear of that," said the huntsman, scratching his head.

"We shall have them like a pack of wolves, howling round the
house — they have only retreated to procure artillery."

I guessed as much," observed his master.

If your worship would only write a letter to Sir Herbert,"
continued the faithful fellow, " he would soon be back with the
men ; and we might keep Keinton Manor against three times their
number."

It would be useless," replied the knight ; " the messenger would
be intercepted. We are too close beset."

Write it," said the man, emphatically, " and I'll answer with
my life for its reaching him."

We cannot spare you, Martin," interrupted Mary, who had great
reliance on the speaker's presence of mind and courage.

Nor need you, lady ; but Stephen there is as sharp a lad as ever
groomed a palfrey ; he has more tricks than a fox, and will double
with a hare ; he was bred in Keinton stables — a cross between a
running footman and a tire-woman ; a lie won't choke him, and he
has a wit as ready as his tongue."

The party whom Martin, in the phraseology of the stable, had
thus accurately described, was a short, weasel-like looking lad
about sixteen, as full of mischief as a kitten is of play ; his
diminutive figure and thin wiry limbs gave him an elf-like appearance,
to which his restless dark eye and gipsy locks not a little
contributed. He had been lashed, tortured, reproved, and buffeted
by the speaker any time these eight years ; yet, strange to say, he
loved him better than any other in the world ; for Martin, although
he corrected him frequently himself, never allowed any one else
to do so, and was his constant protector against the jeers and scoffs
levelled at his uncouth appearance in the servants' hall. A faint
blush suffused his usually pale cheek on thus being singled out to
the notice of the knight and his young mistress, whom he regarded
in some sort as superior beings to be reverenced only at an awful
distance.

• " Dost hear the huntsman's commendations of thee, knave ? "
demanded Sir Malcolm.

Yes," answered the boy.

And wilt thou faithfully deliver my missive ? "

If I live," was the quiet reply.

And if not," replied the knight, " poor lad, thou wilt have well
repaid scant usage and hard words at Keinton. I have writing
gear in this cabinet," he added, pointing to one of those quaint nooks
which we sometimes see in Elizabethan mansions, like pigeons'
nests, niche in the massive walls. " I'll speed it at once, ere the
rascally rebel Roundhead knaves return."

Have you your tablets, my dear young lady ? " whispered
Martin, as soon as Sir Malcolm had entered the recess and seated
himself to his telegraphy.

I have," replied Mary, in a tone of surprise ; " why do you ask ? "

"Because the letter to Sir Herbert will be useless. Stephen will
never reach him."

Why, then, deceive my father with false hopes ? "

Some men must be deceived, lady, to their own good. My
master has a heart as soft as a lady's love, but a temper as hard as
the rough bark of the gnarled oak ; he must be led where he cannot
be driven. The forces of the Parliament have rallied, and hold
all the valley between us and the Royal camp. Rupert pursued
his momentary success too far. It is the Master of Wilton, lady,\vho
must save us ! "

Wilton ! " repeated Mary, with a blush ; " my father never will
consent to ask his aid."

I know it," resumed Martin ; " but you have more sense than
to reject it. You may decide," he added, uneasily, seeing that the
knight had nearly finished his letter — " decide between Wilton's
protection and Barford's violence — between the love of a brother
and the hate of a rejected suitor."

These few words, rapidly delivered, proved to the astonished
maiden that the huntsman had been a keen observer of all that-had
passed at the manor-house. The danger to which the old
man alluded sent the life-current wildly to her heart, and for the
first time, perhaps, in her life, she felt that there was an outrage
to which captivity and even death were bliss. Drawing her ivory
tablets from the embroidered sachet which hung suspended by a
silver chain from her girdle, she hastily traced a few lines, and
gave them into the speaker's hand, who had just time to conceal
them in his cap when Sir Malcolm entered from the cabinet with
his letter, which he delivered to Martin with the air of a man half-accusing
himself of a weakness.

Away with it at once," he cried, " ere I recall it. S'death, to
think that I should be reduced to ask assistance to keep my home
against this rabble ! Tell the knight of Cranfield," he added,
turning to the abashed Stephen, " that but for the presence of those
whose weakness renders them doubly dear to me, I had suffered
the Roundheads to pull Keinton to the ground, stone by stone, ere
I had troubled him."

Ay, ay, Sir Malcolm," replied the huntsman, hurrying the boy
away, fearful lest their master should revoke his resolution ; " I
will teach him your worship's message. Stephen is unused to such
presence. He will understand me better."

No sooner were they out of the chamber where the old knight
and the ladies were, than the boy's shrewdness and presence of
mind returned.

You know your errand, Stephen ? " said the huntsman.

To deliver these ivory things " — so he termed the tablets — " to
the Master of Wilton ? "

Right. And then ? "

Make my way, I suppose, if I can, to the Royal camp, and give
the knight's letter to Sir Herbert ? "

"Just so. But the tablets to the Master of Wilton first — the
lady's message before her father's. How wilt thou quit the
house ? "

I can easily spring from the dovecote window into the branches
of the old elm Sir Malcolm is so proud of."

You'll break your neck."

Pooh ! I have done it a hundred times when you have been
seeking me," replied the boy.

And then ? "

Slide to the ground ; swim across the lake to Wood Point ; and
so through the north cover to the camp. What think you of my
plan, Father Martin ? " added the speaker, with a smile of confidence
; " willet do ? "

Execute it but as well as thou hast schemed it," said the old
man, who saw at once that it was feasible, " and thou shalt be
deputy-huntsman on thy return, and perchance succeed me in
mine office when death runs my old bones to cover. Away with
thee, for the enemy will soon be here."

With these words, the faithful servitor and elf-like looking
messenger made the best of their way to the tower at the east end
of the mansion, known by the name of the dovecote, from the
domestic purpose to which, for a century at least, it had been
applied. The lower window had long been bricked up, leaving an
unglazed one about sixty feet from the ground. Directly opposite
to this window grew the giant tree to which Stephen had alluded.

Be careful ! " exclaimed the old man to his companion, who
had perched himself on the window-sill, after carefully looking
round to see that the coast was clear of all intruders, and who was
just preparing to take his, what appeared to the speaker, desperate
leap.

You are very careful of me," replied the boy with a laugh, ashe
fearlessly sprang into the air, and alighted like a bird upon the
branches of the stately elm, a distance of nearly twelve feet. " Ha !
Father Martin," he added, as soon as he drew his breath on the
opposite side. " What, the best rider in the shire, and afraid to
follow ! It's a mere gutter to the Devil's Ditch."

The Devil's Ditch was the name of a very wide chasm, the other
side of Edge Hill, which the huntsman, after his third flagon,
would sometimes boast that he had leaped — a tradition which,
though laughed at in the servants' hall, was devoutly believed in
the stables at Keinton.

Martin shook his head with a grim smile, and mentally resolved
that he should taste the dog-whip on his return — a resolution which
was soon forgotten in anxiety for the poor boy's safety.

We shall make something of the gorneril yet," he muttered, as
Stephen rapidly descended the tree, and throwing himself upon
the ground, glided like a snake across the grass towards the lake.
'• They have small wit who judge him for a fool. He takes the
water like a stag, and breasts it gallantly. Once on the other side
in the north cover a bloodhound would scarcely track him."

At this moment a report of a carbine rang from the shore, and
the swimmer instantly disappeared, leaving his cap alone upon the
surface of the stream.

Struck, by Heaven ! " exclaimed the old man, terribly excited ;
and I have risked the blood of that poor boy in vain ! Gone with
his sins on his young head — gone, without a prayer, to his account !
No, no," he added, with a shout of joy, " the young rascal has but
dived to avoid the bullets."

Another volley rolled along the shore, but not before the swimmer
had again disappeared. Aware of his danger, he had only risen fora
moment to draw his breath, and then dived again, each stroke
taking him further and further from the enemy's reach.

Blaze away ! " shouted Martin, with a look of defiance. " Blaze

away, and be The Lord forgive me ! " he added, checking the

unspoken oath upon his lips ; " the carnal habits of the flesh are
strong. He rises again, and now — missed him once more, by
Heaven ! "

A party of Barford's followers, who had concealed themselves in
the low brushwood at the side of the broad lake, although too far
removed to witness the swimmer's desperate leap from the tower,
perceived him as soon as he gained the centre of the lake, which
was both wide and deep. Judging that it was someone sent to
summon aid to the beleaguered mansion, they fired repeatedly at
the messenger, but without success ; for the boy ducked and dived,
rising only for a moment to the surface, till he was fairly beyond
their aim.

No sooner had he landed on the opposite side than he darted into
the wood, whose intricate windings he w r as so well acquainted with,
that he could have trod them the darkest night as securely as by
daylight, first waving his long arm in token of defiance to his
assailants.

When Barford was informed of his escape, he resolved at once
to attack the house without waiting for the arrival of the piece of
artillery he had sent for from the camp.

By the time Rupert and his Cavaliers reached the Valley of the
Red Horse it was almost evening, and the left wing of the Parliamentarians,
which had been broken by the brilliant and impetuous
charge of cavalry, had rallied, and being joined by two regiments
of foot under the command of Sir William Balfour, attacked the
king's artillery so successfully that the men were driven from
their guns, many of which were spiked.

The Royal forces stood firmly to their ground, till Essex, copying
the tactics of his imprudent rival, whose absence from the field
was most disastrous to his uncle's cause, attacked them in the
flank, when they broke and retreated, with their faces to the
energy, slowly up the hill, where the main body of the infantry
were stationed. In this charge, Sir Edward Varney and Colonel
Munro were killed, and Lord Lindsay desperately wounded and
taken prisoner.

By Heavens ! " said Rupert, as soon as he beheld the position
of the field, " but the enemy have rallied ! We have been led in
the pursuit too far. Let us retrieve our error ; charge, gentlemen ! "

The retreating Royalists no sooner beheld the arrival of their
long and anxiously-expected cavalry than they raised a shout of
encouragement, and carrying their gaping, ill-closed ranks,
prepared to return once more to the charge. Essex and the
Roundheads received the shock of the cavalry with a well-directed
volley, which made many a gallant horseman bite the dust, but
suffered severely in turn from the fire of the rallying infantry.
The prince's purpose, however, was achieved ; he had regained his
former advantageous position on the hill, protecting the Royal
camp. During the rest of the day a few desultory skirmishes took
place, but the principal affair was over. Fortune, which at first
declared in favour of the king, coyly turned round and smiled
coquettishly upon the Parliamentarians. The battle may be considered
as a drawn one, although Charles claimed it as a victory ;
and a victory it must have been, complete and undisputed, but for
the reckless pursuit so incautiously kept up by Rupert and his
Cavaliers.

As the belligerent parties were separating, a boy, slightly wounded,
was seen limping about the field ; he was evidently in search of
some one, for he repeatedly refused the compassionate assistance
of those who would have removed him. A random ball had struck
him in the thigh.

I cannot find him," he murmured, as he turned with a
sickening sensation, and leaned against the broken carriage of a
field-piece for support. " Satan would be puzzled to find his own in
such a scene of blood and carnage. How the green sward is stained ! "
he added, looking on the patches of coagulated blood which spotted
it around him ; " the ground seems slippery with it — so many
bodies too — better follow the hounds a hundred times in vain than
hunt such game as this ! "

Little did the wounded speaker deem, when, in the natural
humanity of his heart, he breathed the sentiment, that he was giving
utterance to words which, centuries later, philosophers and philanthropists
would preach.

Scarcely had they escaped him, than a party, whose horses
showed the desperate share their riders had taken in the fray

galloped swiftly by him. It consisted of the Earl of Essex and the
principal leaders of the forces of the Parliament, who, after surveying
the half won field, were returning to hold counsel for the
night.

They had nearly passed the wounded boy when, with a loud cry,
he sprang between the troopers who rode on either side, and seized
the bridle of one of the horsemen, who was compelled either to
draw rein or ride him down. It was the Master of Wilton.

God's mercy ! " he exclaimed—" art mad, to cast thyself
beneath my horse's hoofs ? Thou hast narrowly escaped with
life."

No matter, since I have performed my errand," said the boy.

The rest of the party drew up, and formed a circle round them,
curious to learn what could have been the motive of the speaker
for so foolhardy an act.

"Thy errand ? " repeated Wilton.

Stephen — for it was no other than Sir Malcolm's messenger —
drew from his bosom the small ivory tablets of his young mistress,
and placed them in the hands of the Puritan, whose eyes flashed
and cheek grew red, as he hastily perused their contents.

The news ? " demanded Essex, curiously.

The worst, my lord," replied the Master of Wilton. "While
we have been toiling in the good cause here, Barford, abusing your
commission and the force intrusted to his order, has undertaken to
besiege Keinton House to wreak a private spleen."

Sir Malcolm is a malignant," observed the general.

Sir Malcolm Keinton is an old soldier, past taking the field,
and my friend," interrupted the Master of Wilton. " We are in
arms, my lord, to resist oppression, and assure the liberties of the
people, not to gratify individual hate. Farewell ! "

Whither do you go ? "

To Keinton," replied the young man ; " my own followers will
be sufficient to protect my friend. It will not be long, my lord,
before this attack will rouse the country against us. The old
knight is much respected — loved for his hospitality and kindness.
Such deeds cannot but assist the Royal cause."

Essex, whose timidity was constitutional, was so struck by the
observation of the Master of Wilton, that he at once advised him
to depart, and, in his name, put a stop to the siege of Keinton
House. The young Puritan, who was much beloved by his men,
put spurs to his horse, and dashed down to the tents where his
troop was stationed. In a few moments the bugle was heard
summoning them to horse. Their destination was quickly
explained ; and while various parties of the enemy were skirmishing
in the valley, Wilton was dashing with reckless speed
along the open ground which led to the beleaguered home of Mary.

Although a patriot, the young soldier was no fanatic. Under

any circumstances he would have recoiled with horror at the idea
of attacking the Ltbode of a warm-hearted, generous, hot-headed old
man, whose only crime was his excessive loyalty ; but the few
hasty lines traced by the trembling hand of her he had so fondly,
hopelessly loved, and to whom, despite his philosophy and reason,
his heart still clung, had set his blood on fire. With a fury
amounting almost to madness, he spurred his already jaded steed,
and had advanced more than half-way upon his road before he
perceived that he had left his followers at a considerable distance
behind him. As he dashed, reckless of his safety, over the uneven
moor, the cry of the startled plover, as it rose with heavy wing,
seemed to him the cry of Mary ; and at that moment, had the archangel
warrior barred his path, the unequal contest would not have
deterred him. In his frenzied impatience, each moment seemed an
age. He would have chosen the fiery lightning as his steed, or
mounted on the wind.

The faithful Stephen, having performed the most important part
of his errand, was creeping to the shelter of one of the empty tents,
when a deputation of Royalist officers passed him on their way to
Essex to arrange a temporary truce for the burying of the dead,
between four and five thousand of whom lay stretched upon the
field. Fortunately, Herbert of Cranfield was amongst the number.
The poor boy recognised his voice, and with a last effort called
upon his name, and placed in his hands the letter of Sir Malcolm
Keinton. No sooner had the young man perused its contents by
the fading light than, uttering a deep groan, he set spurs to his
horse, and dashed down the road the generous Master of Wilton
had already taken.

Poets have often painted revenge as a stronger passion even than
love — perhaps not altogether without reason; since men have been
known to hazard more, and run greater lengths, to satiate their
hatred, than even to secure the object of their heart's softest wishes.
Such was the case with Barford, who was no sooner informed of
the flight of the boy from the hall than he cursed and foamed like
a madman, and urged his band of wild fanatics to the attack with
promises of plunder, scattering the contents of his well-filled purse
amongst them as an incentive and pledge of a yet more plenteous
harvest.

The old manor-house was defended by the knight and about a
score of worn-out serving-men, whose hands, tremulous with age,
in many instances could scarcely raise the heavy, ill-conditioned
matchlocks snatched hastily from the walls. Martin was the only
effective man, and even he was long past the meridian of life.
The knight hobbled from window to window, from room to room,
occasionally chiding his courageous girl, who exposed herself
continually by remaining at his side, to the shots which began to
rattle through the shattered casements.

"Dogs ! " exclaimed the old man, as he ground his teeth with
rage. " Oh ! but for an hour of my past strength to scatter these
curs that now show their teeth where once they feared to bark !
To the tower, Mary, to the tow T er ! " he added, as one of the oldest
servitors, who had advanced to the window to fire, fell riddled
with bullets at his feet ; " w r e may, at least for awhile, defy them
there."

Not without yon, father," was the cool, resolute reply.

A loud crash at one of the windows of the room beneath
announced that the barricade had at last given way. Martin crept
to the open space once filled by the casement of the apartment,
and stood there to ascertain how far the enemy had gained upon
them, and saw, to his terror, that a breach had been made sufficiently
wide to admit the assailants one at a time. Several had
already entered ; Barford was about to follow, when he steadied
himself, took aim, and fired. Unfortunately, as he pulled the
trigger, his foot slipped in the blood of the poor fellow who
had lately fallen, and the ball, instead of entering the ruffian's
brain, merely struck the top of his well-tempered morion, and
glided off.

A volley, as regular as platoon firing, from the party at the lower
end of the lawn, who were stationed there to cover the assailants,
rattled through the already broken casements, breaking the mirrors
against the walls, and stretching another of the worn-out defenders
a corpse beside his comrade. Indeed, so incessant and well-directed
was the fire, that it was impossible for anyone to approach the
windows without exposing himself to certain destruction.

'there is no time for punctilious honour now," whispered the
huntsman to his master ; " the enemy are in the hall ; fly to the
tower, while there is yet time."

Never ! " said the aged Royalist, furiously ; " they shall cut me
piecemeal first."

And my young mistress too ? " demanded the faithful fellow.

The question produced almost an electric shock upon the frame
of the obstinate old man, who deemed himself bound by a
chivalrous pride not to seek the shelter he had so vainly implored
his child and her terrified cousin to retire to. As the danger to
those loved beings approached, his iron resolution at last gave way,
and throwing his arms around her slender form, as if those feeble
barriers could protect her, he exclaimed, while tears of mortification
and rage trickled down his withered cheek :

Anywhere — anywhere ! But save my child, and I will be content
to fly like the meanest horse-boy in my train. Save but my
darling Mary — I ask no more ! "

A loud shout from below announced that the Puritans were in
possession of the lower part of the mansion. Without a word the
active servitor led the way to the long corridor which opened on

the leads, where a species of movable staircase mounted to the
tower. It was, properly speaking, more a broad ladder than a regular
flight of stairs, consisting of about forty steps, suspended from
the battlements by an iron hook and chain.

On the first attack many of the female servants, terrified at the
discharge of the musketry, had fled there for protection and shelter
from the balls. Uniting their strength, they had succeeded in
drawing up the ladder and hurling it over on the other side. The
only means of access were removed.

God ! " exclaimed Sir Malcolm, in the bitterest accents of
despair, " for what are we reserved ? My child ! my child ! "

No sooner did the terrified women, who were in safety, perceive
the fatal error they had committed in removing the ladder, the only
means of access, and comprehend the danger of their young mistress,
than they began to fill the air with unavailing shrieks and cries.

Silence your howling ! " shouted Martin. " Would you set the
bloodhounds on the track ? "

Kill me, father ! " exclaimed Mary — " kill me, rather than let
me fall into the hands of that relentless man ! Let me not die,"
she added, with increased excitement, " with the crime of self-murder
on my soul. Rather would I spring from off this giddy
height, and dash out my sickening brain, than, living, trust myself
to Barford's mercy ! "

The loud shouts of the triumphant Roundheads, mingled with
the groans of the aged servitors, who w r ere being murdered in the
room beneath, told the fugitives how near and how terrible was
their danger. Heavy drops of agony trickled down the furrowed
brow of Sir Malcolm Keinton as he marked their near approach.
With a trembling hand, but a firm heart, he drew his sword ; his
daughter, deeming it was to comply with her prayer, prepared to
meet it. The shrieks of the women on the tower grew louder at
the sight.

What," said the knigM, passionately, " strike thee ! the pearl
of my heart, the light ofPmy existence, the child whose growth I've
watched with all a father's love, whose smile has been as sunlight
to my fading eyes, whose merry laugh wakened sweet music in
my time-dull ears. Strike thee ! " he shrieked ; " this is some
hideous and unnatural dream or waking madness. A dream — a
dream ! " he added, frantically. " God is too merciful, and thou
too like the angels whom He loves, to have reserved my white
hairs for a scene like this. Wake — wake me ! or the thought will
kill me."

Clasping the fair creature, who, like some nestling dove scared
at the vulture's wing, sought shelter in his arms, the stern old
Royalist gave way, and he wept like an infant over her.

Sir Malcolm," said the old huntsman, " be a man."

You are not a father," sobbed the broken-spirited man, who,

I

could he but have seen his girl in safety, would have rushed as
cheerfully to the encounter and to death as some old war-horse
at the trumpet-clang, and died with a prayer in his heart and a
smile upon his lip.

Women cry," continued Martin, in a broken voice, at the same
time dashing aside the tears from his dimmed eyes with the back
of his rough, honest hand ; " men act. There is still one chance of
safety."

For my girl ? " demanded the father, eagerly ; " for my poor
girl ? Bless you, Martin, bless you ! "

Make your way," continued the huntsman, " to the chapel ;
stoop as you approach the parapet. You can easily force an entrance
through the window of the gallery ; push back, with the hilt of
your dagger, the lock of the western porch, which opens to the
wood. You know the ground. Make the best of your way towards
Edge Hill ; by that road succour will arrive."

And you ? "

Will keep the door which opens to the leads till the last
gasp," replied the man, firmly. " Hark ! " he added, as the noise
approached nearer and nearer, " they come ! ( Away at once. I
have eaten your bread, Sir Malcolm, drunk of 'your cup, and, withall
your headstrong whims and passion, loved you as a noble,
generous master. I never told you so before because it would
have looked like flattery ; I prove it now. I know what you
would say. They approach ! Your child! Another moment, and
old Martin will have thrown away his life in vain."

It was indeed no time to hesitate. For his child's sake, Sir
Malcolm submitted to fly — to leave that noble-hearted yeoman,
whom he had so often chided, whose strange temper he had never
rightly understood, to die alone. Before he left him, he grasped
his hands with a pressure which to the self-devoted man was an
ample atonement for the past.

Away ! " he shouted, impatiently ; " I hear the voice of
Barford ! "

The still hesitating Mary — her terrors returning at the hated
name — imprinted a kiss upon the huntsman's weather-beaten
cheek, and supporting the steps of her agitated father, made the
best of her way towards the chapel.

She won't forget me," muttered Martin, as he prepared to
receive his assailants ; " perhaps her children's children will tell
the tale how the old huntsman died to save her."

There must have been something very consoling in the thought,
for he grasped his rifle with redoubled firmness, and withdrew a
little on one side from the door, which was only large enough to
admit one person at a time upon the leads. Swinging the butt end
of the rifle over his head, he calmly waited their approach. He
had not long to wait : the first of the Roundheads who made his

(Pm

appearance was a brawny fellow who lived in the village of Keinton,
one Mark Peter, a smith by trade, who had earned many a silver
groat from the poor old knight's stables, and been a merry, cheerful
fellow, till Master Gobmouth fanaticism him with his preaching,
when he suddenly became a bitter reviler of those about him, and
a stout Parliamentarian. He was one of those characters whose
patriotism is a mingled vein of envy and sedition ; whose religionis
Christianity deprived of its charity and love. Armed with the
sledge-hammer from the forge, his was the arm which, under
cover of the galling fire poured into the windows by his companions,
broke down the barrier of furniture and shutters to admit
the mob into the hall — his the voice which cheered them up the
great staircase in the long gallery, where most of the aged retainers
were found. He had acted the part of a butcher in the shambles,
and the heavy weapon was fearfully bespattered with the gore and
brains of his victims. Confident in his vast strength, and the
terror inspired by his ferocious appearance, he eagerly led on the
ruffians as they mounted the leads, his chief desire being to have
the handling of the old malignant, as he styled Sir Malcolm, and
the renegade huntsman, whose Puritanism, at the best, had never
been of more than a slight dye. To be sure, his wife had enough
for two.

The Lord hath given them into our hands," exclaimed Peters,
as he burst open the oaken door, and set his foot upon the leads ;
let us not do His work negligently. No quarter — kill — kill them
all save the maiden ! "

Before he could finish the word, down came the butt-end of
Martin's musket upon his unarmed head, and, with a groan, the
ruffian fell forward upon the roof, his face half-buried in the pool
of blood which gushed from his mouth and ears. He never spoke
again.

The assailants paused. It was evident, from the fate of their
leader, that they had to deal with someone determined to sell his
life at a heavy price — not let it be taken from him cheaply. The
second who ventured armed his head with a morion, upon which
the musket-stock descended with terrific force.

This time the assailant, however, was only stunned, and the iron
plate at the butt-end of the weapon was started from its screws by
the violence of the blow. Screened from observation by his position,
and out of reach of their shot, had the faithful fellow been supported
by half-a-dozen resolute comrades like himself, he might have kept
the Roundheads at bay, or forced them to chose another point of
attack. Barford, who chafed like an impatient tiger for his prey,
uttered curses deep and fearful, as one by one his men fell beneath
the blows of their unseen adversary ; for the manoeuvre of the old
huntsman had been several times repeated, and as frequently with
success. Sometimes he struck the intruders in the face, smashing

e2

rfc

the quivering jaw, or breaking in upon the seat of life through the
portal of the temples.

A petard ! " shouted Barford, furiously. " Let us enlai-ge the
breach, and then "

"All is over," said Martin to himself ; "I trust to Heaven my
master and his daughter have escaped."

During the attack, the women on the tower — for women — had
been remarkably quiet ; and, strange to say, they had been occupied
neither in scandal nor mischief ; on the contrary, eager to repair
the error they had involuntarily committed, they had, with the
skirts of their strong linen gowns, handkerchiefs, and wimples,
formed a species of rope, reaching from the summit of the tower
nearly to the leads.

Martin ! " they cried ; " here, here — see here ! "

The despairing man turned his head, and comprehended with, a
glance that there was hope still. He was obliged to calculate his
opportunity to the second. Should one of his assailants reach the
platform while he remained dangling in the air, he would but
present a fairer aim ; he resolved, therefore, to await the firing of
the petard, which he could distinctly hear being fixed to the little
penthouse-like door he had so gallantly defended, and escape, if
possible, in the smoke and confusion.

Hiss, hiss, like a serpent uncoiling itself, went the fusee. Martin
heard it.

Back, back ! " muttered Barford.

Now is my time," said the old man, throwing down the
shattered weapon, which had done such good service, and rushing to
the frail species of rope which a dozen hands let down to him.

Just as he reached it, bang went the petard — the explosion took
place. The great danger was lest the women in their fright,
should let go their hold. Fortunately, they did not, and Martin
reached the top in safety before the smoke had sufficiently cleared
away to admit of his enemies perceiving him.

Great was the disappointment of the Roundheads when they
found their prey had escaped them : for all within the tower were,
at least for the present, beyond their reach. Artillery alone, or
famine, could reduce them. Barford rushed from the leads in a
state of madness, foaming with hate and curses.

Escaped ! " he muttered ; " the prize for which I toiled
escaped ! "

Not so," exclaimed the almost breathless Gobmouth, who, our
readers may remember, took to his heels on the first discharge of
old Martin's gun. He had concealed himself in the wood, and
judging, from the sight of Sir Malcolm and his daughter flying
through its mazes, the true state of affairs at the mansion, had
ventured forth.

What mean you ? " demanded Barford.

The old malignant and his daughter are in the wood."

The words had scarcely passed the speaker's lips than the overjoyed
Barford started off in the direction he pointed to, leaving
the man of piety to join in the plunder of the house.

It was in a long, narrow dell, through an opening of which
Keinton Manor was distinctly visible, that the fiery Puritan overtook
his prey. Mary was too terrified to shriek, but the silent
agony of her eye, fixed, as it were, by a species of fascination, upon
his, told the contest between life and terror which struggled at her
heart.

Fly," said the old knight, drawing his sword ; " fly, Mary, if
you love your father or value his dying blessing ! Leave me to
settle with this pious knave : this burglar who apes the soldier
and shames the man."

But Mary could not fly and leave her father at Barford's mercy.

The contest was a short one. Sir Malcolm, severely wounded
in the sword-arm, slipped and fell. The conqueror seized his prize,
and for the first time broke silence :

Mine — mine at last," he murmured, as his eager eyes scanned
her trembling form. " I have dreamed of this hour, prayed for it,
sinned for it, and it has dawned."

Mercy, mercy ! " shrieked the maiden.

Mercy," repeated the Puritan, in a mocking tone, " the same
which you showed me when I knelt and sued to your proud
beauty."

Throwing his arms round her waist, he would have dragged her
from the spot, despite her shrieks and frantic cries, had not a fourth
party appeared, dashing like a madman, sword in hand, through
the underwood. It was the Master of Wilton, who fortunately
arrived in time to defeat the design of the ravisher. With the
pommel of his sword he struck Barford so violent a blow in the
chest that he was forced to release his prey, who sank, half-fainting,
into the arms of her deliverer, sobbing :

Wilton, brother, defend me ! "

With my heart — with my heart's blood, Mary ! " exclaimed the
excited youth, pressing her convulsively to his manly breast ;
defend thee, though thou never canst be mine ! — defend thee,
even for another ! — defend thee, for the memory of that love
which, like the blind man's dream, when o'er, left my young days
in darkness ! Villain ! " he added, turning suddenly on the
Puritan, "defend the life thy baseness has dishonoured ! "

CHAPTER IV.

The eye's fierce glance, the heaving chest,
The swelling muscle, and the pliant limb,
Too well denote the hot encounter.

IT would have been a study for a painter to have watched the
difference of expression in the countenances of Barford and the
young Master of Wilton. The features of the former were distorted
by baffled hate and the conflict of evil passions, while those of the
latter were severely calm, as the avenging angel's brow, sent upon
some errand of retributive justice. Barford fought with the mad
fury of some hungry panther disappointed in its spring ; Wilton
with that cool, steady courage which the consciousness of a good
cause seldom fails to give. The green sward — Nature's soft carpet
was sadly trampled by the armed heels of the two combatants as
they alternately stood on the attack or the defensive ; practising
the feints, passes, and contre-thrusts of a now almost forgotten
school, but common in those days, when the primer was replaced
in the hand of youth by the rapier, and the master of fence was a
more important personage than even the modern dancing-master.

Mary gazed on the encounter in breathless silence. With the
intuitive perception of her sex, she felt how vast a stake depended
on her protector's arm ; not life merely, but life's crown and
amaranth flower — honour. Scant wonder, then, if, with eyes
fascinated by terror, and rendered bold by despair, she watched
the flashing of their well-tempered weapons as they swept through
the air with a sound resembling a serpent's hiss.

Sir Malcolm Keinton, although wounded, had sufficient strength
to follow the encounter with critical observation. It was long, very
long, since he had assisted at a duel & la mort. The sound of the
swords made music to the old man's ears, and he felt as excited as
some amateur who finds himself suddenly plunged in the pursuit
he had so passionately loved, but which age and infirmity had long
since compelled him to resign.

Well thrust ! " he exclaimed, as the sword of Wilton passed so
near to the breast of his adversary, that he only avoided a mortal
blow by cleverly springing back. " Now then, the Flemish pass,
and point again in tierce."

"Heaven ! " murmured Mary ; "how fierce is man contending
with his fellow-man ! "

Still the combat raged with unabated fury. Barford was slightly
wounded in his sword-arm, but maintained his ground with
unabated energy, but less passion. The sight of his blood on
Wilton's sword had made him prudent ; he stood more on the
defensive.

"Nobly struck ! " shouted the knight; "down with the crop-eared

knave ! Ho, ho ! in stoccato ! Now point. Well done,
brave boy, well done ! Antonio of Padua, my old master, could
not have parried better Huzza ! God save King Charles ! "

In making a lunge, Barford had thrown open his guard, and
the rapier of the Master of Wilton penetrated his right side.
He dropped his weapon from agony and weakness, and stood,
defenceless and wounded, at the mercy of his antagonist.

Strike ! " cried Sir Malcolm Keinton, "and rid the world of a
traitor ! "

No," said Wilton, after a moment's pause, " I cannot raise my
sword to an unarmed man. Take thy life, Barford,"' he added,
contemptuously, " and mend it, if thou canst."

The Puritan stooped with pain, and raised his weapon. Fixing
a look of unutterable hatred upon his conqueror, he muttered, or
rather hissed through his teeth, as he fixed his red glaring eye
upon him :

"Master of Wilton, we shall meet again. Our quarrel ends not
here. To Essex, to the Commons of England, will I denounce thy
treason. For you, lady," he added, fixing a glance upon his rescued
victim, beneath which her heart grew sick, and her pale cheek
more pale, "my debt is postponed, not paid."

With these words the baffled ravisher turned upon his heel, and,
despite the faintness which stole over him from loss of blood,
stalked sullenly away.

It was fortunate for the old knight and his child that the
followers of Wilton soon afterwards reached the spot ; for in less
than half an hour the Puritan, at the head of a party of his men,
laden with the plunder of the burning manor-house, was on their
track, his wound bound, and he impatient for revenge.

Arrest them," he cried, " in the name of the Commons of
England ! "

To your arms, men ! " pronounced the young Puritan, sternly ;
I am here by command of the general of the Parliament to stop
this unnatural warfare. Have you forgotten that those who are
our enemies in the field are brothers in their homes ? What," he
added, "hath this good man done that you should attack his
mansion like the stronghold of a thief — staining a noble cause by
violence to women and grey hairs ? "

"He is a malignant," shouted Gobmouth, who, since the firing
was over, had suddenly found himself very courageous ; prelatical
persecutor of God's people, an enemy to their liberties ! Leave
not the good work unfinished ! Down with them ! "

The old knight, who had recovered his weapon, convulsively
grasped the hilt. He longed to have a touch with some of them ;
and there is no knowing how far his impotent fury, on hearing
himself thus reviled, might have led him, had not his daughter
clung round his neck and restrained him. He was too feeble from.

the wo and he had received, and loved her too tenderly to shake
her off.

Dogs ! " he groaned, in the tempest of his indignation ; " curs !
rebels ! vipers ! whom I have fostered on my lands till you have
lived to sting me ! "

Father, dear father ! "

I shall see you crouching again. The king will — must be
victorious. An' he does not purge his kingdom of such scum, I
will turn Roundhead myself."

The king," said Wilton gravely to the old man, " has retired
towards Oxford."

This was a blow so unexpected to Sir Malcolm, so out of his
previous calculation, that he was silent.

You hear the fiery old malignant ? " exclaimed Bars ord.

The besieging party, finding that the Master of Wilton was
supported by numbers which rendered resistance useless, despite
the reproaches of Bars ord, began to draw off. They were anxious
to secure the plunder they had already obtained ; and their leader,
like a baffled bloodhound, reluctantly followed them.

An attempt was immediately made to stop the progress of the
flames, and save a portion, at least, of the noble mansion of Keinton
from the flames. But the fire had obtained too great a head : the
fine old hall was indeed preserved ; but the wings and chapel were
entirely destroyed.

Mary and her disconsolate parent seated themselves upon a bank
in front of a lawn, watching the vain attempts made by Wilton's
men to arrest the destroying element.

Let it burn," said Sir Malcolm ; " when my royal master is
driven from his palace and his capital by rebels, the humblest of
his servants should not complain."

Father ! father ! " whispered his affectionate child, suppressing
her own grief to soothe his ; " let us be grateful that honour and
life are spared. We can find another home to shelter our broken
fortunes."

But it will not be the home of my fathers," said the knight,
passionately ; " the home where I was born, hallowed by the
tradition of centuries, endeared by memories of youth, honour,
love, respect, and happiness."

The Master of Wilton, who overheard the old man's lament,
begged he would retire to his mansion, whose comparatively
modern gables were visible through the opening wood at the
extreme end of the valley, and find a home there — at least for the
present.

Home ! " repeated Sir Malcolm, petulantly ; " at my age men
find no second home. The green sapling may be transplanted, but
not the gnarled oak ; its roots have struck too deeply in the soil ;
you may hew down the tree, but not uproot it."

l< At least," urged the young man, " till Keinton Manor can be
restored. I shall not be there in person to play the host," he
added, fixing his eyes mournfully upon Mary, seeing that she
hesitated ; " but will take sure means to watch over and protect
you."

These words, which were intended more as a reply to the doubt
of the fair girl than to her father's words, pained her generous
heart. Rising from the bank, she hastily exclaimed, while tears
dimmed her eyes :

Yes, we will go, Richard. Where should my father seek a
shelter but with the son of his adoption ? Where should I go but
to the brother of my childhood — the friend of my earliest
years ? "

Thy brother," replied Wilton gravely, kissing the hand which
trembled in his grasp, " will not prove himself unworthy of the
trust."

At this moment a horseman was seen dashing madly across
the path. The keen eye of Mary recognised him in a moment.
Clasping her hands together, she mentioned the name of Herbert.
The Master of Wilton turned sorrowfully away, not to witness a
meeting which would have pained him.

It were a twice-told tale to paint the transports of lovers who
meet after long absence, or escape from danger. From any other
lips than Mary's the young Lord of Cranfield might have felt
jealous of the lavish praise bestowed upon the generous conduct of
the Master of Wilton — praise which, despite the gratitude he felt
for the preservation of her who was most dear to him, he envied
the young Puritan ; for he had earned it by performing a duty he
would have challenged as his own peculiar right against the world.

You are silent, Herbert," observed Mary ; " surely you are not
jealous that Richard Wilton came to my service in such a fearful
strait? No, no! Pardon me," she added; "the supposition is
unworthy your nature."

Not jealous, Mary," replied the young man, sadly, " but grieved
that any other hand than mine should have chastised this outrage
on your father and yourself — that another should have had the
bliss of protecting you."

Herbert ! "

I know what yoti would say," continued her lover. " I own
Wilton's worth — his courage, virtues, and forbearance. Were we
not friends ? Not in the holiday parlance of the world's butterflies,
but really friends ; men who compared their thoughts together, as
misers show their treasures — men who have but one heart between
them."

And I have severed you," observed Mary, mournfully.

At this moment Wilton returned, after having seen the flames
of the old mansion partially extinguished, and such pictures and

household treasures as could be saved carefully collected, in order
to be conveyed to his own house for safety.

How can I offer thanks," exclaimed Herbert, extending his
hand, " for your generous friendship and protection to these dear

ours

By silence and forgiveness," replied the Puritan.

Forgiveness ! " repeated the lover ; " for what ? "

For having forestalled you in your dearest privilege — protection
to the being who has given you her heart and her heart's love.
Remember," he added, " that it was but the advantage of a brother's
care."

The lovers understood by these simple words, and more from
the melancholy expression with which they were uttered, that the
speaker announced the resignation of the hopes he had cherished
from boyhood — the dreams of his manhood, the fading of the presiding
star of his existence ; for such natures as his never love but
once.

Sir Malcolm yielded to the entreaties of the two friends, and
consented to be conveyed to Wilton Hall, the seat of his preserver.
Just as they had laid him upon the rude litter, hastily constructed
of boughs of trees and fragments of half-burnt tapestry torn from
the ruined walls, a figure, black with toil and smoke, broke through
the crowd which surrounded the old man, and kneeling by the
litter, kissed his hand. It was the faithful huntsman.

Welcome, old Fidelity ! " said the knight, with a faint smile.
We have seen the last of Keinton Manor."

But not of its knightly owner," replied Martin, " or his noble
race. Walls may be rebuilt, trees will grow again ; but that fair
shoot lopped," he added, pointing to his young mistress, "and
Keinton were indeed a desert."

His master grasped his hand with a warmth which, in other
years and under other circumstances, it would have humbled him
to express, for he was a proud though generous gentleman ; but he
felt the consolation which the speaker's quaint simile conveyed.
What was, indeed, the rain of his home, compared to the misfortune
the honest fellow alluded to — the loss of his darling
Mary ?

"Thank Heaven," murmured the old knight, clasping his hands
in prayer, " that I am still a father ! "

It was night before the party arrived at Wilton House. Sir
Malcolm was conveyed to the chamber of his host, and his wound,
which was merely a flesh one, dressed by the huntsman.

Sleep, and a few days' rest," he observed, as he tied the last
bandage with a hand as gentle as a child's, " and your honour may
walk to Northward End to see the hounds throw off again."

The poor fellow blushed as his young lady raised his hand, before
he was aware of her intention, to her lips, to thank him for his

fidelity to her father. At that moment, despite the preaching of
Master Gobmouth and the lectures of his better half, who was
deeply tinctured with the Puritanical fanaticism of the day, he
felt that he could take arms against the Parliamentarians. In
burning Keinton they had lost all favour in his eyes. The injury
to his master became, by some incomprehensible process, identified
with the cause of the king. Martin, who had never been in heart
a Roundhead, was now almost as staunch a Royalist as the knight
himself.

It will be many a long day before the dogs throw off at North-wood
Point again," sighed Sir Malcolm ; "our grandchildren may
live to see them, but we never shall."

By the advice of his leech, whose orders were received with as
much respect as though he had taken his degree, and was licensed
by the goodly Company of Barber-surgeons to kill or cure men, all
but his daughter retired from the chamber. She remained watching
with filial love by the side of his couch.

As soon as Herbert and Wilton were alone, the former would
have renewed the protestations of his gratitude, had not his friend
prevented him.

Not a word — not a word. Remember," he said, " what our old
companion, the noble Milton, observed to us the day we planted
the mulberry tree at the back of Christ's College together. Have
you forgotten the lines speaking of the heart ? "

No, nor ever shall," replied the young man, repeating them :

Strange that a thing of dust should thus control

The energies of an immortal soul ;

That a pure, subtle essence should obey,

And mind be governed by mere common clay.'

We had happy days then, Wilton," he added.

"And shall have again," said the Puritan, warmly; "this
unnatural contest cannot last long ; civil commotions, like the
Struggle of the heart, in time exhaust themselves. Our country
and our friends will once again know peace."

"Which side hath the poet taken ? " demanded the Royalist.

Milton hath been true to his own nature, and sided with the
suffering and oppressed ; his energies and pen are devoted to the
people."

A noble cause in theory, although a mistaken one in practice."

Let us not discuss the question. You have followed the instinct
of your birth, the traditions of your race. Your ancestors sleep
beneath their many escutcheoned tombs ; mine 'neath the humble
turf, which, osier-bound, marks their humble graves. It is as
natural for you to be a Royalist as for me to be a "

Republican," added Herbert, finishing the sentence for him.

Not a Republican, but a patriot."

The following morning news arrived that the king had broken
up his camp, and was slowly marching towards Oxford. The
country, consequently, round Keinton and Wilton House remained
in possession of the Puritans, a circumstance which rendered the
stay of the young Knight of Cranfield no less dangerous to himself
than his host, as strict orders were given by Essex to arrest all
stragglers from the Royal army.

It would therefore have been as unwise as ungenerous to have
drawn attention on the home which had so hospitably sheltered
those who were so dear to him.

We must part," exclaimed Mary, who, woman-like, found in
the hour of need the resolution which her lover wanted to pronounce
the hard word; "farewell! You leave me under the
guardianship of the truest, noblest friend, one who will prove a
brother to my helplessness . I shall be safe — quite safe here. It
is you," she added, " who must face danger and captivity, by
making your way through the lines of the enemy, like some
hunted deer, alone."

Not alone," said Wilton ; " I shall accompany him."
A look of gratitude, which sent the warm blood thrilling through
his veins, was the maiden's answer.

And I," said old Martin, who was in the room. " I know each
turn and hiding-place in the county. The best bloodhound of
them all would be puzzled to double with me. If my arm is weak,
my head is clear ; and neither arm nor head can be better employed
than in assuring the safety of Sir Herbert."

It was finally settled that the fugitive,' escorted by Martin and
the Master of Wilton, should leave the house at nightfall. Then
the host called the old huntsman from the room, and left the lovers
to themselves, under pretence of making arrangements for their
journey ; but in reality to allow them a brief hour to soothe the
pangs of separation by a renewal of those vows which young hearts
feed upon ; perhaps, also, to spare himself the pain of witnessing
them.

Mary ! " exclaimed the young man, fondly pressing her to his
heart, " how soon has the sunshine of our love been clouded ! I
am degraded — forced to fly, like a vile hind, by night, from those
whom I should scorn to turn from in the field — to leave you, too,

with "

A brother, and your friend ; a noble, generous friend," interrupted
the enthusiastic girl. " Oh, Herbert, be more just to your
own nature, and Wilton's matchless worth ! "

Dost blame me that I fear to lose my treasure ? " he demanded.
The miser, who, by a life of pain, has gained and lost a priceless
hoard — the wave-tossed mariner, who sees the prize of years of toil
and pain rent rudely from him, feel not half the agony I feel at
quitting thee. "

But not a doubt, Herbert, " said the maiden, " not a doubt of
Wilton's faith or mine ? "

No," said the young man ; " for to doubt either were to doubt
Heaven."

As soon as night had thrown her mantle o'er the sleeping earth,
Herbert and his two companions prepared to set forth upon their
journey. All three were armed to the teeth, and carried pistols in
the holsters of their saddles.

Their adieu to Sir Malcolm Keinton had been previously made,
and nothing remained but to bid farewell to his lovely heiress

God bless you, Herbert," she exclaimed, speaking in a low, soft
tone, lest the vibrations of her voice should betray the emotion of
heart. " I need not tell you to be careful of your life ; you will do
that for my sake. Remember," she added, fixing her eyes upon him,
"it is the thread of mine."

The Knight of Cranfield dared not trust himself to reply.
Twining his arm round her waist, he pressed her passionately to
his breast, and for the first time printed a kiss upon her unresisting
lips.

The Master of Wilton, despite his resolution, turned aside to
conceal the tear which fell upon his cheek ; that kiss seemed to fall
like a drop of molten wax upon his heart, and set the seal upon his
misery.

Farewell," said the blushing girl, extending her hand towards
Wilton ; " you will soon bring me back intelligence of Herbert's
safety ? "

I will send it, lady," replied Wilton, as with trembling lips he
touched her taper fingers. " But the present danger past, I will
make the best of my way to the camp of Essex, and return no more."

No more ! " repeated the maiden.

At least," added the young man, " till the wars are over. But
fear not — I have taken every precaution for your safety. Your
name and your father's well-known loyalty will protect you from
the Royalists. My name and home will shelter you, should the
people triumph in the struggle. Believe me, lady, that all who
have drawn the sword in this unhappy struggle on the nation's side
are not like Barford."

It was impossible not to feel the delicacy which urged this
resolution. Herbert heard it, despite his high opinion of his
friend, with secret satisfaction, and Mary with a tender sadness.
She felt that his unhappy love had banished him from his home
while she remained there.

That young Puritan possessed a noble heart. Herbert was right,
when he said to his mistress in the garden of Keinton that he was
worthy of a woman's love.

Fortunately for the fugitives, the night was dark and lowering,
and not a sound fell upon their ears. Suddenly Martin, who led

the way, drew rein and paused till the two friends were by his
side.

Hush ! " whispered the huntsman, bending his head to the
saddle-bow and listening ; " yes, I am right — horsemen are before
us."

I hear nothing," said Wilton, who had been listening too.

Had you been out, Master of Wilton," replied the old man,
respectfully, " as many nights as I have, both as boy and man, for
thirty years, stopping the foxes' holes against the next day's chase,
you would be able to distinguish the slightest sound. There
again ! " he added ; " there are several — five, I should say, at least.
We must avoid them."

They may be friends."

Few friends in a wood at midnight, and in times like these.
We must ride wide to outflank them."

Forcing his powerful nag through the brushwood, the speaker
turned to the right of the valley, followed by his two companions,
who had only the rustling of the fern and brake to guide them as
the steed of Martin trampled them down with his heavy hoof.
Pursuing their way in this manner for about a couple of miles,
thro broke ground again upon an open heath, leaving the wood
be' nd them.

vere are we ? " said Herbert.

'son Goosefeeder's Land," replied the Master of Wilton, who
knew the country well. " To the right lies the Monk's Stone ;
'tis a wild spot. "

Wild or not, we must pass it," interrupted Martin.

But why is it called the Monk's Stone ? " inquired the young
Lord of Cranfield.

This is not the time or place to tell it," interrupted their guide,
who, like many of the humbler classes in England, was inclined to
superstition ; " those may hear us who will regret to all eternity
that they ever made a compact at the fatal spot. It is the demon's
altar," he added. " Ride on ! ride on ! "

These word only increased the curiosity of the young man, and
he again requested his friend to relate to him the legend ; which,
as Wilton was entirely free from superstitious fears, he assented to.

As you please," said the huntsman ; " but I at least will ride
out of hearing. Master of Wilton," he added, " it is a tempting of
Providence by a tale like that."

Putting spurs to his horse, the speaker made head a short way
before them.

You have heard the name of Breakspear ? " began the narrator.

What, Walter Breakspear ? He who, under the name of Adrian,
filled the Papal chair ? "
The same."
"Who has not ? " demanded Herbert ; " whatever his failings asa

priest, lie was glorious as a man. He was one of the first of the
Roman pontiffs who conceived the generous idea of driving the
barbarians from Italy, and restoring political freedom to that lovely
land."

You are aware, then, he was an Englishman ? "

A poor monk of Canterbury — despised and ill-treated by his
superiors. Go on."

Tis said that when driven from his convent he wandered to
these paints, a friendless, houseless, wretched man, no hospitable
door opened to receive him — the rejected and despised of all.
Even the poor, who are generally touched by distress, of which
they know the bitter pangs from sad experience, barred their
wretched huts against him."

Why so ? "

The ban of the Church was on him. They knew by his rent
cowl, and the absence of the scapulary, that he was an expelled
priest from some religious house, so even the poor shrank from
him in terror."

"What had been his crime ? " demanded Herbert.

Knowledge. He had broken through the tradition of ages, and
dared to think for himself — to use the reason God had endowed
him with. If we may believe tradition, he was no less expert as a
chemist than as a mathematician ; in philosophy he had broken
through the trammels of the Syllogistic school, and, like Abelard
in France, or our first Bacon in England, broached truths in science
which bigots denounced as errors in religion. Vainly did he
represent to his superiors the glory which would accrue to the
Church in taking the lead in a movement which would revolutionise
the world ; vainly impress upon them that truth, like time,
was eternal ; and that the mountain which ignorance and superstition
had piled upon her fair breast, if not removed by the hand
of progress, would be overturned by the convulsion of the
earthquake. The purple drones either felt that the chain would
last their time, or were unable to comprehend him ; he was
pronounced a dangerous innovator, imprisoned, and finally
driven from his retirement : their hate pursued him even in his
banishment."

Truly," observed Herbert, " has it been said that few men hate
like priests. Fanaticism is always dangerous."

Within a small volume, in the dreary hours of his imprisonment,
he had contrived to trace his speculations in religion, discoveries
in science, and schemes for the improved condition and education
of mankind. The characters, it is said, were traced in his blood,
ink having been denied him.

Vainly the expelled priest had appealed from abbot to bishop,
bishop to primate. All feared the man they could not understand,
and hated the intelligence which reproved them. He wandered

from monastery to palace, from town to village, rejected and
scorned by all ; till at last, it is said, with his heart filled with
bitterness and gall, on a night like this, when the heavens were
obscured, and the distant thunder threatened a convulsion of
nature, he laid himself down to die by the half-extinguished ashes
of a fire which some shepherds had lighted at the foot of what was
then called the Druids' Stone.

Aware of the evil reputation of the outcast, one of the rustics
concealed himself in the branches of a solitary pine, in which the
raven had built her nest, and whose tall branches shadowed the
gibbet where a murderer's bones were rattling in the wind. It is
from him the tradition has descended that a phantom appeared to
the wanderer, and offered him the highest honours the world could
bestow, on condition that he destroyed his book, and that, when he
had fulfilled his promise, he would grant him any favour he
should ask.

The compact was made, and the outcast Breakspear ascended
the Papal throne. Years rolled on. The same peasant, who had
been received into a religious house, of which he had become
prior, was sent by his Order on a mission to Rome, touching the
dispute for supremacy between the sees of York and Canterbury.
He was well received by his countryman the new pontiff, and
lodged in the Vatican. The affair was arranged to the honour and
satisfaction of the see of Canterbury, and the messenger taking his
private audience of leave, when a tall, stately-looking man, dressed
in a robe which, without being the costume of any order of the
Church, had a sacerdotal character, entered the cabinet of his
holiness, who with difficulty restrained his indignation at so daring
and unwarranted an intrusion.

' Holy father, you were less fastidious thirty years since, when,
at the foot of the Druids' Stone, I made a purchase from you.'

This was uttered with a sneer so cold and so sarcastic that it
froze even the haughty spirit of Adrian. The poor prior remembered
immediately the fearful personage. He crossed himself and
trembled.

' Another time,' faltered the pontiff, looking extremely pale.

' No time like the present. Hast thou forgotten thy promise,
made in the rags and wretchedness from which my pity raised
them — when thou hadst reached the height of human greatness, to
accord me one demand ? '

' A demand ! ' repeated the terror-stricken Pope.

' Dost thou deny it, fool, because I made no written compact
with thee ? Thickest thou to escape thy promise to me ? It was
traced in fire — on rocks older than this globe thou breathes on.
Besides, I have a living witness, this shaveling, and I adjure him
by his priesthood to declare if I have not spoken truth.'

' Alas, holy father ! ' exclaimed the prior, thus solemnly called

upon, ' the arch-fiend speaks the truth. On earth or in the grave,
at the bar of God, or where His justice may condemn me, I must
bear witness to it. Concealed in a tree by the Druids' Stone, I
heard the promise given.'

' And what dost thou demand ? ' said Adrian, faintly.

' Lay thy hands upon my head, and breathe the words which
give to men the power to consecrate the bread and wine which He
I dare not name first gave to His disciples. Do this, and my claim
is satisfied.'

' What if I refuse ? ' said the kingly priest.

« I will crush thy soul from out thy frame, and leave thy perjured
carcase on the floor of thine own palace,' replied the fiend, whose
eyes sparkled with that strange, unholy light which marks the
divinity of hell.

» I demand an hour for reflection.'

' An hour be it,' said the demon. ' But think not to elude me ;
in the centre of the universe I should find thee ! One flash of my
wing would disperse a million times the number of thy guards.
In an hour I will return, that thou mayst fulfil thy promise, or pay
the penalty.'

"No sooner had the mysterious visitor departed, than Adrian, who
had recovered his courage, calmly commanded the prior to take his
seat upon the pontifical chair, and casting himself upon his knees
before him, commenced, to the terror-stricken priest, a general
confession, such as is made by Catholics previous to death. What
passed on that fearful occasion can only be known when the archangel's
trumpet shall break the seal of death ; the confessor never
repeated it.

According to the tradition, the absolving words were barely
Spoken before the fiend again entered the apartment.

' Thy answer, mortal ! ' he exclaimed.

' Fiend ! ' said the pontiff, rising with great dignity, ' in my
Master's name I defy and spit upon thee. Thickest thou that He
who spurned thee on the Mount will permit his vicar, fallen, frail,
erring, human as he is, to worship thee in His glorious name ? By
my own sentence I deliver my weak body to thy wrath ; my soul
I trust to my Redeemer's mercy. His justice may punish, but His
mercy will not utterly condemn me.'

Scarcely had the words escaped the lips of the august speaker
than the demon, extending his long crooked fingers, seized the
penitent by the throat. Lightning flashed from his fierce eyes,
and a yell, which echoed through the hundred halls of the Vatican,
broke from his lips. The prior, half-mad with terror, rushed from
the cabinet to summon assistance ; when he returned, accompanied
by a crowd of prelates and nobles, they found the still warm body
of Adrian upon the ground alone, a placid smile upon his features.
It was given out that he died of apoplexy. But it was years ere
VOL. in. F 2

his successor permitted the witness of his last moments to quit the
cell in which he had been confined as a supposed lunatic.

From that hour," added the narrator, " the spot where the
compact took place has been known by the name of the Monk's
Stone ; and the superstitious peasantry who believe the tale still
avoid it."

By Heavens ! " exclaimed Herbert, who had been absorbed in
the legend ; " but the fire burns there now ! "

The Master of Wilton raised his eyes in the direction to which
his companion pointed, and saw, to his astonishment, a deep red
glare rising from behind a tall pile of granite. Martin had drawn
his rein, and stood observing it. In a few minutes they were by
his side.

What seest thou ? " demanded the young men.

Strange forms," replied the huntsman, trembling, " gliding
between us and the fire. Why would you tell the tale ? "

Their doubts of the real character of the beings were quickly
dissipated by a rough voice calling out to them to stand.

Despite their philosophy, the travellers were not a little relieved
when they found the sounds were human.

Being well armed, they judged it more prudent to advance than
to retreat. They accordingly approached the fire, and were received
by half-a-dozen men, whose rough appearance indicated that they
belonged to the wandering tribes at that period so common in
England — Bohemians or gipsies.

The Master of Wilton and Martin were on the point of coming
to blows, when the voice of Herbert astonished them. Dashing
past the men, he rode up to the leader of the party, who was
standing at a short distance, and gave some token, or whispered
some password in his ear.

Down with your arms," he cried ; " they are friends."

After partaking of some wine and provisions, of which the
strangers had good store, Herbert informed his friends that as he
was now in sure hands, it was unnecessary for them to accompany
him further ; indeed, that such attendance might rather add to his
danger than contribute to his safety.

The Master of Wilton was too well acquainted with the disguises
and stratagems which the extraordinary events of the time in
which they lived gave birth to, to ask any further questions, and
with mutual professions of esteem and friendship the young men
parted. Old Martin Alas charged with a token to his young
mistress.

Six days later, when Charles I., surrounded by his loyal nobles,
made his solemn entrance into the city of Oxford, a crowd of
students, cavaliers, professors, and citizens thronged the streets to
witness it. As the long train of dignitaries moved in procession up
the High Street, a party of gipsies, despite the efforts of the officers

of the University, moved after them, much to the dissatisfaction of
the wives and daughters of the humbler classes, whom they rudely
pushed on one side in order not to lose the sight.

Charles, who rode a steed of rare strength and sinew, was clad incomplete
armour. When his eye glanced over the splendid train
by which he was attended, its usual melancholy expression was
exchanged for a look of pride ; he felt that he was still a monarch.
He courteously reined up his horse as the authorities approached,
and listened to their loyal addresses, in which the University
declared its willingness to surrender its plate to his majesty's use
as soon as the royal mint should be established within the walls.

Pshaw ! " muttered Prince Rupert, as he listened to the address.
They know that the dies for striking the coin were all taken when
we abandoned York."

For a few moments the monarch seemed at a loss what answer
to return, till, casting his eyes round upon the crowd, he discovered
the band of gipsies, who had followed so closely on the rear of the
procession. A smile passed over his features as he beheld them.

I accept at once your loyal offer," he replied, extending his
hand to touch the mace which the vice-chancellor presented to him.
The royal mint, I am happy to inform you, is already within the
walls."

The functionaries and chancellor looked blank. They deemed
the presses destroyed or taken at York, and hit on the excuse as a
means to save their treasure. As a just punishment for their want
of sincerity, they were disappointed.

CHAPTER V.

There is a tide in the affairs of men,

Which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune. — Shakespeare.

On hearing that the king had reared his standard at Oxford, the
number of Cavaliers who flocked thither allowed Charles greatly to
reinforce his cavalry ; for the gentlemen were generally well-mounted,
and, under the command of his nephew, Prince Rupert
(who, however deficient in the sober qualities of a general, possessed
those of a dashing cavalry officer in perfection), scoured the country
well, visiting Abingdon and Henley, making great booty. Emboldened
by success, he ventured to approach the metropolis, and
penetrated as far as Staines and Egham. The Parliament and City,
although much concerned at these advances, provided with great
spirit for their defence. Trenches were dug and ramparts thrown
up round the capital ; seamen were embarked in small boats, and
sent up the river; forces were' despatched to seize and fortify
Windsor Castle, and the train bands of London, Middlesex, and
Surrey kept continually under arms. In the eastern counties the

association which had been mainly organised by Oliver Cromwell
was exceedingly formidable. Such was the position of affairs
immediately after the battle of Edge Hill.

London was in a ferment ; varying news blew hot and cold
amongst the citizens ; it was alternately rumoured that Essex had
wavered, been defeated, or gone over to the king, and that Charles,
at the head of the combined armies, was advancing to wreak his
vengeance upon the capital.

These rumours were dispersed by the arrival of the general in
the neighbourhood, with his army in good condition. Quartering
them about Acton, he himself appeared before Parliament on the
7th November to give an account of his campaign.

Although it was clear to most men that Essex had been far from
doing the best that might have been done, the two Houses wisely
welcomed him with a vote of thanks, and the Commons presented
him with a gift of five thousand pounds.

Scarcely had the earl arrived in the capital, when the king,
quitting Oxford, marched upon Reading. Henry Martin, one of
the most remarkable men in the House of Commons, who commanded
that town for Parliament, finding it untenable with the
forces at his disposal, retreated on the king's approach, and fell
back upon London. Charles still pursued his triumphant march
to Colnbrook, where he was met by the Earl of Northumberland
and three members of the House of Commons, who presented a
petition for an accommodation, which was graciously received ;
the monarch declaring, with many protestations, that he was
tenderly compassionate of his bleeding people, and desirous of
nothing so much as a speedy peace. The deputation retired to
London with the king's gracious answer, which was read in both
Houses. In it he promised to reside near London till commissioners,
who were to be appointed on both sides, should settle
existing differences.

Thereupon the Earl of Essex rose and demanded whether
hostilities should be suspended. At this period there is little
doubt but that he wished to bring about an accommodation with
the king The lobby of the House of Commons was crowded with
men. whose stern, anxious visages and sombre attire denoted the
party to which they were devoted. Each time the doors were
opened to permit the egress of a member, the measured tread of
the Puritans suddenly ceased, and they paused like a body of
soldiers at the word of command, in the hope of catching the
sound of some speaker's voice, or a few stray words, to indicate
the progress of the debate. Amongst the crowd was Barford ; his
wounds were yet green, and his pale cheek showed that he still
suffered, though the pains of his body were nothing when compared
with the gall, shame, rage, and humiliation which preyed upon his
mind. They were like of serpents, engendered both in his

brain and heart. Not being a member of the House, he was compelled,
like the rest, to curb his impatience. A hundred times
was he tempted to rush into the body of the House, and aid, by
his fiery eloquence, the efforts of those whom interest, fanaticism,
patriotism, or ambition led to desire the continuance of the war ;
for in the strife of human passions then let loose, there were men
to be found actuated by the noblest and most unworthy motives.

The door of the House was thrust violently open, and Cromwell,
Hampden, and Pym entered the lobby. The appearance of the
first we have already described ; he wore the same dress as at the
battle of Edge Hill, with the exception of his arms and armour ;
these, from the respect due to the sanctuary of the laws, had been
laid aside. Hampden wore the uniform of his favourite regiment
the green-coats ; and, together with Pym, was endeavouring to
allay the excitement of their companion, whose lip was thick and
swollen with ill-suppressed passion.

Calm thee, Oliver," said the philosophic patriot ; " anger never
yet marred a good cause or advanced a bad one ; our liberties are
in the hands of God, not at the mercy of the discretion of a Parliament,
or the fidelity of a king."

But why treat at all ? " demanded Cromwell, with a violent
effort to master himself ; "are not the Stuart's perjuries as manifold
as the hairs on his dishonoured head ? Is not his faith a
by-word ? The Lord hath given the victory to our hands — why
turn it to a defeat ? "

How goes the debate, Master Oliver ? " demanded several of
the loungers who had crowded round the three members ; " the
House will stand firm ? "

As a house built on sand," bitterly answered the party thus
questioned.

A groan of disappointment arose from the little knot who
surrounded them, and several hands were seen impatiently
clutching their swords.

Traitors ! " muttered several of the Puritans, alluding, of course,
to the members who were disposed to an accommodation.

Mistaken, perhaps," observed Hampden, " but not traitors."

Why treat," said Cromwell, " where there is no faith ? It is
tempting Heaven."

Why treat ! " repeated the patriot, fixing on him a look of
surprise, not unmingled with regret. " To stay the shedding of
kindred blood, the desolation of so many hearths, the tears of so
many orphans, if Charles prove sincere ; if not, to give a last proof
to the world that we proffered the olive-branch ere we drew the
sword."

It must be drawn," said several of the listeners.

For our rights — yes ; but not for vengeance, friends ; for liberty
of conscience, but not for private seeking of ambition. If Heaven

hath given a chance of peace, let not man reject it. Should Charles
Stuart again break faith, the Lord will raise up an avenger."

Ay," said Cromwell, breaking into one of his fits of religious
enthusiasm— the only occasion, perhaps, on which he was really
eloquent—" the avenger is already raised. The shadow of his step
is on the earth, albeit men see it not ; and the King of Terrors is
walking by his side. The race of Stuart is red with the blood of
saints. Their throne shall pass from them, and their name become
a word of reproach. This regenerated land shall give the world a
lesson to its tyrants and an example to its nations. The mystery
of Babylon shall bow down before it, and the earth be purified in
the presence of the Lord."

At this moment word was brought into the lobby that the House
was about to come to a division. Hampden and Pym hastened to
their seats, fearful of being shut out. Their companion was about
to follow them, when a heavy hand was laid upon his shoulder.
He turned sharply round.

What wouldst thou ? " he demanded.

Five words alone."

It must be at some other hour, then ; the present is devoted
to the great work to which my soul is bound. Woe to me if I
neglect the service of the Lord ! "

"Thou canst pay it better than in yon tabernacle," replied
Barford, " where the sheep and the wolves are gathered as in one
fold. Anon they must be separated. The suspension of hostilities
will be carried."

I know it," replied Oliver ; " still will I do my duty."

I can, if not prevent it, at least so turn this treaty that it shall
make the breach wider than ever between Charles Stuart and his
people, and cover with confusion the false shepherds who have
betrayed their flocks."

Thy name ? " demanded Cromwell, fixing his keen, grey eye
with a scrutinising glance upon him.

"Barford."

He who lately sacked and burnt Keinton Manor ? "

The tempter bowed in the affirmative.

Enough — I will trust thee," said the future Protector. "That
act was a pledge which bound thee to the people's cause ; and it is
not the time," he added, " when patriots are wanted to scan too
curiously the motive. Walk with me this way."

With a strong heavy stride, the speaker, followed by Barford,
made his way through the crowd of Puritans in the lobby — pushing
some gently on one side, or answering others with a groan, which
meant to convey that the good cause was in danger from the backsliding
of the Parliament, They reached at last an empty ,
where they could converse freely and unobserved.
No sooner were they seated than the manner of Oliver entirely

changed. He was no longer the religious enthusiast — for he knew
the worldly character of the man he had to deal with — but the
astute man of the world. They eyed each other for a few moments
in silence, as each would measure the fence of the other.

The future Protector of England was the first to speak.

You say you can render this suspension of hostilities of no
effect ; how ? "

By causing tho king to recommence — before the messenger of
the Parliament can reach him."

The means — the means ! " exclaimed Cromwell, impatiently.

That is my secret ; told, it would be yours."

This was uttered in a tone so calm and cold that his hearer felt
he had to deal with a man who not only knew the value of the
service he had it in his power to render, but was resolved to exact
it. They understood each other.

And the price of such a service ? "

An order for the arrest of Sir Malcolm Keinton and his
daughter," replied Barford.

I have no power."

You can move that they be committed to the Gate House in
your place in Parliament. The assistance, both in men and plate,
which the old knight has given to the king will prove sufficient
reason ; and the House, in the first burst of terror when they shall
hear the cannon of the king, will vote anything, for fear is always
cruel."

Where are they now ?"

At Wilton House. The renegade has sheltered them."

"It will offend its owner deeply," said Cromwell, musingly.
He is much looked up to in the House by a rising party of young
men, who must be won or crushed."

Your answer ? " impatiently demanded Barford.

Let me but hear within five hours that Charles Stuart has fired
one shot against the metropolis of England, and I pledge myself
to demand Sir Malcolm Keinton and his daughter's arrest of the
Parliament."

"Three shall not pass ere it is heard," exclaimed Barford.
Farewell ! This day will decide the fortunes of more names than
one."

Without another word he quitted the room where the conference
had taken place, and made his way to the front of Westminster
Hall, where his horse was waiting. He mounted it with a quick
bound, and galloped, as though the fiend possessed him, towards
Brentford.

For some time Cromwell continued to pace the apartment, Avhere
he remained alone, buried in deep reflections. It is probable that
at this period he first began to entertain those dreams of ambition
which sullied the purity of his early character. Perhaps, in his

sleep, he saw the shattered throne filled by a giant form, a broken
sceptre and a blood-stained axe lying at its feet. With his usual
clear-headed perception, he had seen the advantage of Barford's
offer ; his only fear was lest he should be unable to accomplish it.
He knew that the City of London, already deeply incensed against
the king, and daily excited by the preaching of the Puritans, would
never forgive an attack on their time-honoured walls ; the breach
must be irreparable.

Will he attempt it ? " he murmured ; " will he accomplish it ?
or hath hate put a boaster's tongue between his lips ? Let horn but
lead the phantom king to such an error, and not all the secret
leaning of the wavering Essex — who is but half the people's friend
can save him ; his cause is lost — lost — lost. But what remains ? "
he added slowly, as if afraid to contemplate the answer to the
question he had asked. " What prison can hold a crownless king ?
what chain fetter the hand which once hath borne the sceptre ?
Death — the grave ! — no other. God ! " he continued, starting as if
from a hideous dream, " let not my soul grow weak and womanish
unnerved by childish terrors. What Thou hast decreed, man's
weakness cannot change ; the burthen Thou hast lain, Thou gives
strength to bear."

On his return to his place in the House, he found that the
question, as he expected, had been carried in the affirmative, and
Sir Peter Killigrew despatched to require a like concession on the
part of the Royalists, not doubting but Charles would consider
himself bound, under existing circumstances, to concede the
truce.

There was a quiet tone of triumph on the part of those who were
known supporters of the Royal cause in the House, and a cold,
stern resolution written on the features of the defeated minority,
who were men to bide their time.

Thou hast been absent from the fight, brother," whispered one
of the Puritan members, as Cromwell took his seat beside him,
and the battle hath been lost."

That soldier is not the worse employed who protected the
retreat ; the Lord may change our discomfort into victory."

During the debate which was carried on, touching the means of
raising the supplies, Oliver sat listening in nervous silence for the
signal which Barford promised ; still no sound met his ear, and in
the impatience of his nature he internally cursed him as a traitor,
or an empty boaster who had promised more than he could perform.
The House was listening to an harangue of Holies, who had a
command in the army of the Commons under Essex ; they were
both jealous of the rising influence of the Independents, and
wished for an accommodation with the king.

Why should we doubt the Royal word ? " he added ; " the evil
counsellors have been removed. Charles has received a lesson of

the people's strength, and henceforth may be expected to govern
in faithfulness and justice. Why doubt his truth ? "

There was a pause. Cromwell started from his seat. The distant
booming of the cannon was distinctly heard.

Why doubt his truth ! " he repeated bitterly ; and his homely
features assumed an expression of bitter sarcasm ; " let his own
acts reply for him. Because taking advantage of the truce, he has
advanced his army towards the City while the watchmen sleep ;
because at this moment he is slaughtering our unsuspecting
brethren — staining his soul with the blood of his people — turning
his sceptre to a sword. Foolish nation," he added, " when will
you be convinced that neither faith nor truth dwell in the breast
of the Stuart ? Hark ! " he continued, as the roll of the artillery
became more and more distinct ; " wi old counsel when we ought
to draw the sword — prate like women when we should do the
deeds of men. Did I not believe that a mighty Hand was upon
us, and that He whose word is strength would yet guide this
unhappy nation as He guided the footsteps of His chosen race of
old, 1 would turn my weapon to a ploughshare, and, in the New
World, seek that freedom of conscience which the Commons of
England are idly bartering here."

These few words, uttered with unusual vehemence, and the
roaring of the cannon now distinctly heard, threw the assembly
into confusion. Essex, pale with rage and shame at having been
thus trifled with, as he thought, rushed from the House, followed
by Holies and many of the members, and, mounting his horse,
galloped across the park in the direction of the ominous sound.
Many prepared to follow him. Those who had opposed the treating
with the king calmly enjoyed their triumph : the Royalists were
crestfallen, and, dispirited as they were, hurried from the House.

Roll on," muttered Cromwell, as he prepared to follow Essex
to the field, and the peal of the artillery again fell upon his ear ;
it is the knell of thy despotic race, king ! — the signal of the
downfall of thy throne. Roll on," he repeated ; " the voice of an
outraged people shall drown thy mimic thunder. Blindness hath
seized him — that mental darkness which fell on the Egyptian king,
and led him to his ruin. The day hath dawned — the man will not
be wanting."

Prince Rupert, followed by the king in person and the whole of
the Royal army, taking advantage of a dense November fog, had
advanced towards Brentford, not at first with the intention of
attacking it, but to wait in a better position the decision of the
Parliament. While debating on their next step, a horseman,
covered with foam, dashed up to the Royal tent, and gave to the
officer of the guards a letter for the king. It purported to be
written by Essex, and advised him to advance immediately on
London, and held out a direct promise of favouring the attempt.

As it was known that the general had long been wavering, the
unhappy monarch, whose peculiar misfortune it ever was to trust
his foes and doubt his friends, gave the word for the attack, and
fell into the snare, which broke off all negotiation with the Parliament,
and rendered useless the exertions of his partisans.

Rupert fancied that he could carry the town of Brentford by
assault without any difficulty ; get on to Hammersmith, where the
train of the enemy's artillery lay, and take London by storm. Had
the letter been real, and not a forgery of Barford's, there is little
doubt but the attempt might have proved successful. But Holes's
men opposed their passage so stoutly, that the gallant regiments
of Hampden and Lord Brooke had time to come up. These three
regiments, not without great loss, completely barred the road ; and
when Essex, who had gathered a great force, came up, he found
that the Royalists had given over the attack, and lay on the western
side of Brentford.

On hearing of the attack, London poured forth its armed citizens.
The 'prentices, always a daring class, rushed to the fight as to a
holiday. Grave merchants, traders, and even magistrates, together
with ail the lords and gentlemen belonging to the Parliament forces,
hastened to the army. The City bands, under the command of
Major-general Sheppon, who enjoyed great popularity in London,
marched cheerfully forth, and Essex found himself on the following
Sunday at the head of twenty-four thousand men, drawn up in
battle array on Burnham Green.

Hampden, with the brave men of Buckinghamshire, began to
make a detour with the intention of falling on the king's rear,
while the rest of the army should attack him in front, and turn his
flank. Scarcely had they marched a mile, when Sir John Merrick,
Essex's major-general, galloped after them, and in the general's
name ordered them back.

Essex sheltered this extraordinary conduct under the advice of
the opinion of his council, composed chiefly of soldiers of fortune,
who love protracted war as physicians love lingering diseases — for
the gain ; they recommended him to suffer the king to withdraw
without a battle.

Charles, scarcely crediting his good fortune, got safe to Kingston,
and crossed the bridge there without opposition, and without
ammunition enough in his own army to have lasted a quarter of an
hour.

Indignant at the weakness or treachery displayed, Hampden
dashed his sword upon the ground, exclaiming that his country was
betrayed and lost.

Cromwell laid his hand upon his shoulder, and replied, with a
grim smile, that a country never could be lost while such sons
remained to battle against her tyrant.

A few days afterwards the indignant Parliament voted that they

would never again make treaty or peace with Charles Stuart ; and
ordered, without a dissentient voice, the arrest of the old knight of
Keinton. The service of the treacherous Barford was repaid.

About this time a conspiracy was detected, headed by Waller the
poet, who for some time had been in communication with Lord
Falkland, the secretary of the king. The main object of it was
to seize upon the persons of the leading members of the Commons,
and to deliver London to the Royalists. By a devilish contrivance
Barford managed to involve the father of Mary in the plot — tried,
the accusation was sustained by forgeries similar to the one by
which he had deluded Rupert.

The effect was still the same. The prisoners were removed from
the Gate House to Guildhall for trial, and, in that age of passion
and dissension, condemned.

Herbert was one evening returning from his rounds in Oxford,
when the faithful Martin, travel-worn and covered with dust,
encountered him. In as few brief words as grief would permit,
the faithful fellow told him the dangerous position of his old master
and his child, whom the knight found, to his astonishment and
terror, were inmates of the Gate House prison. Three hours afterwards,
disguised as a couple of private soldiers, they left the city,
and made the best of their way to London — the anxious lover
determined to save his young heart's treasure, or share her fate.
His was that love which knows no second object ; but, like the
Indian plant, blooms once, and then expires.

Martin had brought a letter from his master ; in it he gave directions
for the security of his estates to his child if happier times
should dawn, and his consent to their immediate marriage.
Conceal," it said, " the knowledge of my fate from my child ; I
fear her affectionate hearts would wither at the stroke. Exile —
imprisonment — anything to deceive her. Could I but place her
in your arms I should be happy ; but use your own discretion.
Let not the king, God bless him ! lose one of his best defenders to
gratify an old man's wish."

Smeaton, one of the servants of the Speaker of the Commons,
was known to be an avaricious man; for gold he would have sold
his God, had such a deed been possible, and was not likely to
hesitate to betray his master. For a stipulated sum he procured a
blank order for the release of Mary; and Herbert, armed with the
seeming authority, presented himself at the gate. The keeper, a
starched Puritan, eyed him suspiciously; but both the lover and
the agent through whom he had procured it were too well disguised
even for his lynx eye to detect them, and they were conducted to
the room where the condemned Royalists were confined previous
to their execution. No sooner were they together in the prison
than Mary was folded in the eager embrace of her lover, whose
companion watched at the door of the cell, lest the governor or any

of his satellites should surprise them. Sir Malcolm first found
courage to break silence :

I am sentenced by these monsters, Herbert, to a long, but, I
trust, not cheerless exile. My only anxiety is for my child. Years
may elapse ere I again clasp her to my heart. I fear for her alone."

Not for me, father," exclaimed the affectionate girl through her
tears ; " not for me. I can go with you. Exile has for me no
terrors, if you share it with me."

The old man smiled. He was happy to see his child so completely
deceived as to his real fate.

It may not be," he said ; " I cannot even name the place of my
banishment ; but it will be far, I fear, from thee. Mary," he added,
solemnly, " as I have loved thee — watched thy infant years — been
a kind, though perchance a foolish, father to thee — as thou wouldst
have my parting blessing, comply w T with my request, and make an
old man happy. Let me behold thee in a husband's arms — safe in
his love and honour — and I shall be satisfied, even if my doom
were death — not banishment. Dr. Madly," naming an eminent
divine, who was one of his fellow captives, and, like himself,
imprisoned for his loyalty, " will pei-form the ceremony."

The reverend captive advanced. So deep was the interest excited
in the fate of the fair girl, that all the prisoners agreed in deceiving
her as to her parent's fate ; the 7 spoke of banishment, not death.
Herbert took her hand, and eloquently entreated her to insure his
happiness, and fulfil the wish of her father.

Do not ask it," she sobbed. " At night, and in this horrid
prison — is this a time to speak of marriage ? "

Herbert's companion urged them to decide, fearing the governor
of the prison might return.

Mary," said Sir Malcolm, taking her trembling hand, and gazing
with mournful earnestness upon her agitated countenance, " life
is uncertain ; those who now rule may send me to some distant
country. Severed from every tie which binds my heart to existence,
I may drop into the grave before England has recovered of its
madness, and Charles again be seated on his throne. Think how
it would cheer my lonely heart to know that thou wert safely
sheltered in the arms of an adoring husband. Death would lose
all its bitterness. Wilt thou refuse me this, perhaps, last request ?
or, casting aside the influence of the idle terrors which surround
thee here, make the old man happy ? Remember, too," he added,
that every moment of Herbert's stay is fraught with peril to
him."

The tone of earnestness with which the appeal was made went
to the soul of Mary. Her spirits rose with the occasion, and with
a kiss of filial love she whispered acquiescence to his will. Waller
and his friends formed a circle round the rude table in their cell,
while others kept the door ; and by the light of two candles in

that sad dungeon, Dr. Madly pronounced the benediction of the
Church, and Mary was the wife of Herbert of Cranfield.

The priest, aware of what belonged to his sacred office, even
when, as he supposed, upon the threshold of eternity, asked for
pens and paper. With a firm hand he wrote the certificate, which
all present signed ; the poet observing, as he affixed his name, that
never could he be more honoured.

Lady," said the clergyman, " an old man's blessing and a tear
of admiration for thy filial heroism will not disgrace thy hand."
He raised it respectfully to his lips as he spoke. " I have a duty
to perform ; the paper I give into your hands concerns the dignity
of your life, the estate of your children. Guard it as you would
your honour. May happiness attend you."

Come ! " exclaimed Waller with a forced smile, " it shall not
be said that the marriage of the heiress of Keinton was celebrated
without one cup drained to her happiness. We have wine. A
toast, gentlemen and gallants. Honour and happiness to the
bride ! "

Those who were guarding the door approached to join in the
demonstration. A second cup followed — it was to the triumph of
King Charles.

Here's a health to King Charles and his cause,

Here's health to each bold Cavalier ;
May the arm that in battle would pause
Lie dishonoured and cold on its bier I "

Sang Waller, with forced mirth. " Exile ! why, we shall be the
winners. England is no more the land of madrigal and song, but
of conventicles and psalms. Huzza ! God bless the bride, and
restore King Charles ! "

At this moment the governor burst open the door of the cell.
He had approached unperceived, and unfortunately overheard
enough to inform him what had passed.

So," he exclaimed, sarcastically, " the wolf hath broken into
Zion, and the priest of Belial hath profaned the temple ! "

A pretty Zion ! " said Waller, looking round the desolate cell.

I must have further warrant in this matter," continued the
functionary, " than this, perhaps worthless, bit of paper. The
Lord hath enlightened his servitor, and the scheme of iniquity
shall not prevail. My feet shall avoid a snare, and those that dig
the pitfall tumble therein."

He was about to advance to the door to summon the gaolers,
when Waller, who was a fine, manly fellow, of exceeding strength,
sprang upon him, and dragged him into the centre of the room.

Has anyone a knife ? " he exclaimed.

Mary turned aside, and hid her face in the bosom of her husband.

Hold ! " said Challoner, who was afterwards executed for his
share in the conspiracy ; " do not shed his blood ; I know a surer

way to punish him. Where," he added, addressing the prostrate
hypocrite, " is the dungeon of Williams ? Speak, or your time is
short ! "

The third to the left," he gasped.

Tis well," said his interrogator ; " you shall share it with him.
You best know what claim you have to his mercy."

Goaded with horror at the idea, the villain struggled : they
succeeded at last in binding him.

May you not all escape ? " exclaimed Herbert, a dawn of hope
breaking on his mind.

No," replied Waller, gallantly ; " the attempt would but
endanger yours. You forget the guard at the entrance of the
prison."

Despite his blasphemous calls to God for assistance, his frantic
entreaties for mercy, they forced him from the cell and conducted
him to the one he had described. The ponderous bar was hastily
withdrawn, and the helpless gaoler thrust into the same dungeon
as his prisoner. Challoner smiled significantly as he closed the door.

Who is this Williams ? " demanded Herbert, as they accompanied
himself and bride to the end of the passage, after Mary had
taken an agonising leave of her father, who had blessed her with a
parent's blessing, and imprinted a hundred kisses upon her pale
cheek, deeming each one the last.

A former keeper of the prison. The wretch who succeeded
him first seduced his wife and then denounced his superior as a
Royalist. Under the garb of religion he has committed more
crimes than would damn a hundred infidels. Would you believe
it, he and his wretched paramour have been in the habit daily of
visiting their victim till they have driven him frantic : he is now
a raving maniac."

Mary, who heard the words, shuddered when she thought what
would be the wretch's fate. The bride and bridegroom, attended
by their trusty guide, passed on, and in a few minutes were in the
street, where the faithful Martin was waiting to receive them.
Throwing a hood and cloak of the simplest fashion, such as were
worn by the poorer citizens' wives, over the form of his trembling
wife, Herbert conducted her to the house of a friend, in whom,
although a Puritan, he felt he could confide — the house of the
young Master of Wilton.

The Cavaliers, reckless of the doom which hung suspended over
them, retired to the cell of the madman Williams, to witness the
sport, as they termed it, of the prisoners' meeting. The terrible
was strangely mixed with it.

A scream of suppressed pleasure reached their ears as they
approached the grated door.

Pinned for a hundred ! " exclaimed Waller, in the language of
the bull-ring.

The maniac, when the goaler was first thrust into the dungeon,
beheld him in gloomy silence, thinking that his enemy came but
to inflict his usual mockeries ; but when he found that he was
really a prisoner, his delight knew no bounds. Repeated cruelties
had extinguished his reason, and the animal instincts alone
remained ; of these, the thirst of revenge was paramount. Ere,
however, he proceeded to violence, with that cunning which is the
characteristic of insanity, with a sash which he unwound from the
person of his prey, he made fast the door of the cell on the inner
side, and then deliberately seized him by the throat. The arms
of the wretch being bound, he could offer no resistance.

True, true — at last ! " he cried. " I have dreamt of this before
thirsted for it. Ah ! dost thou tremble ? It is my turn to play
the tyrant now. Plead, plead for life ; and let me hear the words
of terror falter on thy sips ; behold the damp, moist dew upon thy
cheek, and laugh, and tell thee every prayer is vain. Revenge is
sweet," he added, " when it is thus obtained. How the fiends will
shout and yell for joy as they dance around, waiting to catch thy
parting soul — when they behold thy blanching face, thy bursting
eyeballs ! I long to begin the sport."

Mercy ! " groaned the horror-stricken wretch. " I will release
thee. Untie my arms, assist me to alarm the prison ! I'll give
thee gold — liberty ! "

Is it so ? " said Williams, mournfully. " Art thou but the
sacrifice of accident ? No, no," he wildly added ; " thou art mine
given to me as the price of happiness, freedom, wife and child ;
and I will rend thee like a lion in the wilderness — trample thy
black heart — drink thy hot blood ! "

With these words he seized him by the throat.

The sport grows interesting," said Challoner. " I have seen
nothing better since they abolished bear-baiting."

Roll on — roll on ! " shrieked the maniac ; " those eyes will soon
bedim, their glance will wake no amorous passion now; thy
sneering lips are black as the blood of thy treacherous heart. Now
they change to red," he added, as the blood burst in a torrent from
his victim's mouth ; " thy life-stream stains them. See how it
trickles down my firm-set hands ! Do not die yet ! Hell must not
rob me of a joy like this. Struggle, man ! Life must not free so
soon. There, a little air ! There, draw thy breath again ! Fool !
it is but to prolong thy torture."

Thus did the wretched man sport with his victim, like some
beast of prey playing with its prize ; at times he would relax his
grasp and recall the ebbing spirit back when on the verge of life,
but to prolong the horrors of its existence.

The Cavaliers were horror-stricken at the scene, and tried to
force open the door of the cell ; they had not been human could
they have witnessed the goaler's sufferings without pity.

vol. in. a 2

She comes," cried Williams, frantically ; for in his madness
he thought it was his wife at the door; "strumpet, behold your
paramour ! Breathe kisses on his lips now, and mock and spurn
the wretch you have betrayed."

With little apparent exertion he dragged the body of the dying
man and held it to the grating. The door began to yield.

Think not to deprive me of my prize," he continued ; " this,
this to make all sure."

With a strong grasp he raised his enemy from the ground and
dashed his skull against the floor.

Now come," he cried, holding his hands, smeared with blood
and brains, towards the door ; " come to the rescue of your
paramour. Content ! content ! "

With a yell of triumph he rushed to a corner of his cell and
buried himself in the straw. The Cavaliers, disgusted and horror-stricken,
left the spot.

CHAPTER VI.

Despite the command which philosophy and long habit of self-control
had given the young Master of Wilton, his heart experienced
a sudden pang when he beheld the Knight of Stan field and Mary
enter his house. He had but just returned from the North, whither
he had been sent by Cromwell and the heads of the Independents
to treat with the Scotch, and, if possible, to draw them into a league
and covenant for the completion of the great work.

We are come, Wilton," said Herbert, extending his hand to
him, " with danger for our companion, and terror as our guide, to
ask hospitality and shelter where we are most sure to find it at the
home of friendship."

Welcome ! " replied the young man, kindly, after warmly
pressing his hand, and gravely saluting Mary ; " but doubly
welcome if my poor services can be of use to those who have the
truest claim upon them ; although I am at a loss to imagine what
danger can threaten the daughter of Sir Malcolm Keinton."

How ! " replied his friend : " is it possible that you have not
heard that both he and his daughter were arrested at Wilton House
by order of the Parliament, and dragged, like common felons, upto
London ? or that, for two months past, they have been prisoners
at the Gate House ? "

Not a syllable of this," exclaimed the young man, his eyes
flashing with indignation. "Think you that, if my ears had heard
this strange intelligence, I had not moved for their release ? The
unhappy spirit of the times," he added, '• has sundered us, Herbert
for I am one who admits of no compromise between duty and

affection — but I have neither forgotten my friendship for you, Sir
Malcolm, and your "

He paused, for his tongue lacked courage to complete the
sentence by pronouncing the name of " wife."

M My wife," added the young knight, finishing it for him ;
wedded in a loathsome prison, from which I have rescued her by
stratagem and surprise, to save her from the hands of the villain
who hath vowed the destruction of her father."

•• Wilton," said the blushing girl, " think not lightly of me for
this hurried union ; I yielded to my father's prayer — my unfriended
state, the wretchedness of circumstances — and, let me add," she
continued, fixing a look of intense love upon the glowing countenance
of her gallant bridegroom, " to the whisperings of my own
heart, when I consented to exchange an exile's protection for a
husband's."

"An exile's ? " repeated the Master of Wilton.

Know you not," she resumed, " that the men you call your
friends — yours — have condemned the good old man to lay his grey
head in a foreign land, far from his child — the home his virtues
blessed — no filial hand to smooth his dying pillow or close his death-dimmed
eyes ? You have influence," she added, throwing herself
at the feet of her early lover, " are respected by these cruel men.
Save him, by the memory of the smile by which he welcomed you
in boyhood — the pride with which he watched your opening manhood
— the love his kind heart bears you. I dare not add, for my
sake, Wilton ; I have wrung your breast too deeply to retain an
interest there."

Deeply as you have wrung it — and it hath dropped blood in its
struggles, Mary — your voice can wake an echo there while memory
or feeling shall remain. What ! " he added, passionately raising
her from her suppliant position, " doubt your power where you so
long have reigned ! Manhood may forget its feverish dreams, turn
a deaf ear to ambitious promptings, gaze with cold eye on beauty's
smile, turn from its melting tone, but never forget its boyhood's
love. No, Mary, no. The same pure ray of light which lit its
morning path gilds it till evening's close."

Forgive me ! " she exclaimed. " Sorrow is seldom just. 'Twas
despair that wronged thee, and not my sober judgment. You will
see these cruel men," she added. " Your voice is powerful with
them. Paint to them his age, his feeble state, his life of truth and
virtue. You will save him, I am sure you will save him, Richard ;
for he has been to both of us a father."

But of what is he accused ? " demanded Wilton.

Of joining in the conspiracy of Waller and his companions to
arrest the leading members of the Parliament, and to deliver
London to the king," said Herbert.

Falsely accused," added his young bride. " My father is a

Royalist, but no conspirator. He is a soldier, not a plotter. Bars ord
has forged this accusation — to wreak a mean revenge, used his bad
influence with his judges."

Judges ! " repeated Wilton, turning as pale as death ; for he
had heard of the trial of the poet Waller and the rest of the conspirators,
and knew their sentence, which was to be executed early
on the following morning. " Hath Sir Malcolm, then, been tried ? "

His friend bowed his head in the affirmative, for his heart was
too full to speak.

And condemned with them to "

Mile" interrupted Herbert, fearful lest, in the agitation of the
moment, the fatal truth should escape his lips, and Mary learn how
soon she would become an orphan.

Wilton understood him ; and, checking himself mechanically,
repeated the word " exile." Mary observed the look which passed
between the young men, and, with the intuitive perception of
alarmed affection, instantly divined the truth.

I am deceived ! " she shrieked ; " my heart detects it ; my
terrors whisper it ; I read it in your pitying eyes and blanching
cheeks. Not exile, but death — death ! "

There was a mournful silence. Neither of the young men had
the courage to speak.

He must be saved," she continued, frantically, " at any sacrifice,
at any price ; lands, wealth — all save honour. Wilton, that which
before seemed terrible would be a blessing now. Exile — not death
any doom but that. Save him, and my prayers, my tears shall
bless thee. Remember," she added, clinging to his shoulder, "tis
my life thou pleases for ; for the stroke which severs his existence
will end his child's."

Be calm, dear Mary," said the agitated Puritan, who seemed
to inwardly struggle against same sudden resolution — a contest
between honour and feeling warring in his breast — " for Heaven's
sake, be calm ! "

Calm ! " she repeated ! " they know my father is condemned
to die, and bid his child be calm ! Calm ! when he is doomed to
lay his aged head upon the block ! — calm, while horrid ruffians tie
his feeble hands — hands so often raised in blessing over me ! See
see — they lead him to the scaffold ! How proudly his blue eye
glances on the crowd ! No ! no ! his silver hair is stained with
blood ! Blindness hath struck me ! God ! no hope — no aid ! My
heart — my heart is broken ! "

Overcome by the vehemence of her feelings and the horror of
the scene which her excited imagination had conjured up, the
exhausted bride sank upon the floor — suffering had taken a
momentary refuge in insensibility. Herbert hastened to raise her,
and with the assistance of Wilton bore her to a low couch near the
window, which the latter hastily dashed open, trusting the air

would revive her. To his terror he saw a few drops of blood
trickle from her half-closed lips. A thousand times sooner would
he have beheld them flow from his own faithful heart. The sight
unnerved him, and he turned aside to conceal the tears which
honoured his manhood, although he deemed they shamed it. There
was no longer a struggle in his heart — the contest was at an end.

Mary ! " he whispered soothingly, " sister ! Mary ! the voice
which never yet deceived thee bids thee hope ; nay more, assures
thee of thy father's safety. I possess the means to demand it from
his enemies, to compel those who thirst for his blood to forego their
cruel purpose."

Again and again the speaker was compelled to renew his assurance
before returning consciousness permitted the suffering girl to catch
its import ; and then it was long, very long, ere she could be convinced
that there indeed was hope.

"What! doubt me still?" .he added, in a tone of tender
reproach ; " dost thou remember, Mary, when a girl, I promised
thee the flowers of the water-lily for thy hair, and risked my life
to gain them ? — that when they dragged me, cold and senseless,
from the lake, my hand still firmly grasped the cherished flowers ?
Have I less love or resolution now ? "

And you will save him ? " she demanded, with a faint smile.

At any peril, or at any risk. Pride, respect, and honour : even
that. Mary, shall give way before thy tears. Farewell," he added ;
I must leave you, for time is precious when the lives of those we
love hang on its us?. Peace rest within thy heart. Wilton will
keep his word."

Without waiting for a reply, the Puritan pulled his sober beaver
over his brows and left the room ; perhaps it was to hide the
weakness he had not the firmness to repress. Poor Herbert, the
husband of an hour, found himself helpless where he would most
have valued strength — reduced to see his bride, whose every wish
he would have anticipated, whose tears were to him more precious
than the gem whose transparent purity they rivalled, receive from
another that hope it would have been his pride to offer, and from
one who had been his rival too : true, that rival was his friend, one
of the noblest and best of beings, but still his pride was humbled.

Seating himself on the couch by the window, with the head of
Mary reclining on his shoulder, they both sat watching in melancholy
silence till the messenger of hope should return.

At this period the Parliament made an attempt to enter into an
alliance with the Scots. The Master of Wilton had been the bearer
of the secret proposals.

With a step which betrayed no want of resolution, the young
Puritan made the best of his way to a narrow street at the back of
the Deanery Yard in Westminster, and knocked at the door of a
substantial-looking house, in which the future Protector of England

and his family lodged while he was attending his duties in Parliament
; at other times they resided at his house in Huntingdon.

The character and family of Cromwell have been variously
represented. As to the true nature of his character, we trust that
in the course of our narrative our readers will find the key and
decipher it themselves.

Oliver Cromwell was born in the parish of St. John's, Huntingdon,
on the 25th of April, 1599, and christened on the 29th of the same
month, as the parish registers still testify. His father was Robert
Cromwell, youngest son of Sir Henry Cromwell, who dwelt inconsiderable
state at the noble mansion of Hinchinbrook, near the
town. His mother was Elizabeth Steward, whom all genealogists
agree to have been descended from the Royal house of Scotland,
and the descent is thus explained.

Walter Steward accompanied Prince James of Scotland, whom
the inhospitable Henry IV. detained a prisoner, when driven by
stress of weather to seek shelter in his kingdom. This Walter
Steward, who appears to have been a cousin to the prince, did not
return with him to Scotland, but married and settled in England.
One of his descendants, being prior of Ely when Henry VIII.
dissolved the monasteries, and proving pliant on the occasion, was
changed from the last Catholic prior into the first Protestant Dean
of Ely. The farming of the tithes there, and donations of Church
lands among his nephews, were the fruits of Robert Steward's
prudence and affection. It was from one of these nephews that
the mother of Oliver was descended, whom all genealogists agree
was either a ninth or tenth cousin to Charles Stuart, King of
England.

Whether royally descended or not, Robert Cromwell married
and brought her home to Huntingdon about 1591, and settled with
her there on such portion as a cadet of the house of Hinchinbrook
might have — such portion consisting of lands lying near the town,
part of which is still known by the name of Cromwell's Acre.
These lands he farmed himself, and their income is computed to
have been about £300 a-year, a fortune in those days equal to
£1,000 now. It was his father, Sir Henry Cromwell — who, from
the splendour of his living, was named the Golden Knight — that
enlarged and partially rebuilt the mansion of Hinchinbrook, which
had formerly been a nunnery ; and it was the son who sold it to
the Montagues, afterwards Earls of Sandwich, whose seat it still is.
Thus we see that the future Protector was honourably, if not
royally, descended, and that the reproaches of "a bankrupt brewer
and low-born leveller " had no better foundation than the hatred
of the defeated Royalists, who found a consolation in ridiculing or
blackening the man whose iron hand had crushed them.

Oliver and Elizabeth Boucher, his wife, were seated by the side
antique chimney, above which hung the portrait of Thomas

Cromwell, first Earl of Essex, whom old Fuller quaintly calls the
Malleus Monachorum," which he translates " Mauled of Monasteries."
At a table near them were seated Richard and Henry, his
sons, reading, while their sisters plied the busy needle by the light
of the only lamp which hung by a brass chain from the centre of
the ceiling. Their father had just concluded a long thanksgiving
after the evening meal when the young Master of Wilton was
announced.

Although a frequent visitor and a general favourite at the house
most of whose inmates, had they followed the natural impulse
of their hearts, would have run eagerly to welcome him — the young
Puritan was received after his long absence with a slight inclination
of the head. It would have been yielding too much to human
weakness to have expressed joy even at the presence of a friend.
One fair girl, whose features partook of the quiet intellectual beauty
of her mother, hung her head to conceal the blush which, despite
her long habit of self-command, the visit of the Master of Wilton
occasioned. Her brother Richard half-smiled as he observed it,
and took occasion, while his father was gravely welcoming his
visitor, to whisper in her ear :

I told you he would return in safety. Am I a false prophet
now ? " The blush of the fair girl became a yet deeper red as she
turned aside to hide her confusion.

Welcome, Master of Wilton," said Oliver ; " this expedition
passes my hope, for it implies success. Thou art not one to leave
a means untried when the great cause is at stake. How seemeth
the arrangement with the Scots ? "

Better than it promised. The preliminaries of the covenant
between the nations are already signed, and Vane waits but for
further orders to complete it. Once accomplished, the cause of
Charles is lost."

And the people's," replied his host, " assured. With liberty of
conscience, pure religion, man shall no longer be compelled to
defile the temple of his heart by bowing to human ordinances.
Where are the papers ? "

So please you," said the young man, " give me speech apart.
I have that to say which I must speak in private."

Oliver rose, and, lighting a taper, conducted the speaker from the
apartment to a small room at the end of the corridor facing it. It
was fitted up in the simplest manner. A large table covered with
papers occupied almost the entire space ; only sufficient room
remained to permit of persons passing between the walls and the
high backs of the heavy, carved, oaken chairs which were placed
around it.

Now," said his host, with a slight gesture of impatience as he
pointed to his visitor to take a seat opposite his own, " where are
these papers ? "

In the hands of a true friend," replied the young man.

A friend ! " exclaimed Oliver, letting fall his heavy knuckles,
with a startling rap, upon the table. " What friend ? Art
treacherous, or mad ? Dost thou not know that if a breath, an
inkling of this tampering with the Scots, escape before the blow is
struck which renders the Presbyterians powerless, the cause, the
great cause of England's regeneration will be lost ? "

The young man bowed his head in token that he knew it.

And yet," added the speaker, reproachfully, " thou hast trifled
with the very lives, as well as hopes, of those who trusted thee, and
consigned these papers to a friend."

One," said the young man, sternly, " who tomorrow will read
them from his place to the assembled Commons of England, unless
my demands are satisfied."

Demands ! " repeated Cromwell, eying him with a glance of
surprise and cold contempt ; for he thought that, feeling the Independent
party, to which he belonged, to be completely in his power,
Wilton was about to stipulate for some personal advantage to
himself ; " name them. The men thou hast betrayed are little
favoured by this world's gifts. Still, whate'er the sum, it shall be
paid."

Perish the offer ! " exclaimed the young man, proudly, starting
from his chair. " Had any lips save thine stained mine honour by
so foul an offer, my sword should have replied to him."

Honour ! thy honour ! " said Cromwell, contemptuously ; " but
let us not waste words. Thy price, man, thy price ! "

The release of Sir Malcolm Keinton, a prisoner in the Gate
House, condemned to die for a part in a conspiracy which you
know he never played. The old man hath been a father to my
youth ; his daughter is as a sister to my heart. They must, nay
shall, be saved. Was it well, Master Oliver, in the absence of the
man you call your friend, to abuse your influence with the Parliament
to procure the imprisonment of his guests — an aged man. and
helpless girl, too ? Fie ! fie ! "

'* It was for the cause to which my life hath been devoted. I
had not spared my own blood in it," replied his host.

Then cursed be the cause ! If its triumph can only be assured
by treachery and meanness, trust me it is a bad one. Cromwell,"
he continued, " it is the very nature of evil to mislead the judgment
and corrupt the heart. Had not thine own yielded to the influence
of a fiend, it would not have suspected mine. Suspect that for
vile material interest I would betray a cause I have already bled
for ! "

Still it is betrayed."

It hath betrayed itself," retorted Wilton. " The cause for which
I resigned my manhood's hopes — the ties of friendship and of love
was pure and holy — a cause the God of armies might have

smiled upon or holy martyrs died to advocate. Since perjury and
cruelty have stained it, it is no more the same."

Perjury ! " repeated Cromwell.

Ay, perjury," continued the young man ; " and thou knowest
it. Hath not thy great heart suffered this corruption, and, but for
my untied, unwished-for coming, would have permitted the
blood of the poor old Knight of Keinton to be shed, to gratify the
spleen, the malice of thy tool — the traitor Barford ? "

For some moments Oliver felt humbled and humiliated in his
very soul. In his zeal for the cause he had overstepped the limits
prescribed by justice and mercy ; and he found himself convicted
of standing in the position of one who, while he drew the sword
in his own rights, had shown himself reckless of the rights of
others.

Man — man ! " he sighed, " thy noblest image is of clay. The
dust from which thou wert framed is felt in every action, and,
like a base alloy, mingles with and contaminates thy nature. The
scale hath fallen from my mental sight, and that which I deemed
a sacrifice now seems a murder."

At this moment three distinct taps were heard against a bookcase
standing in a recess near the chimney. For a moment the master
of the house hesitated, as if afraid of trusting his guest ; but
repelling the ungenerous suspicion, he unlocked the doors of the
case, which, instead of being filled with books, was empty. The
back of it was a strong oaken door, let into the wall, and opening
to the garden at the back of the house. To all but his wife and the
few political friends who visited him privately, the existence of
such an entrance was a secret, and the Master of Wilton for the
first time became acquainted with it.

In such times," said Cromwell, with a smile of worldly policy,
we cannot be too cautious. The fox hath two entrances to its
burrow ; and at times it is not more beset than I am."

He opened the concealed door, and three men muffled in cloaks,
their slouched beavers drawn over their determined brows, glided
through the aperture. They were Ireton, Bradshaw, and Barford.
The latter turned deadly pale as his eye encountered the young
Master of Wilton's. Something whispered him that, despite his
precautions, his prey would yet escape him.

The party gravely seated themselves, and remained for a few
moments in silence, which Cromwell was the first to break.

Welcome, friends and brothers in the vineyard of the Lord,"
he commenced. "My spirit was thirsting for this communion
when I heard your signal. A light hath been vouchsafed to me.
The malignant Sir Malcolm Keinton must not die."

He must," interrupted the impatient Barford, whose soul
thirsted for the old man's blood ; for he trusted that Mary, once
deprived of her father's protecting care, would fall an easy prey.

The influence of his name is great throughout the country. With
a lavish hand he has sent plate, money, and large aid in men, to
assist the Stuart's cause. One bold act will strike terror into the
malignant and give courage to the wavering. Besides," he added,
he hath conspired with Waller against the nation."

Liar ! " exclaimed Wilton, " measureless liar ! At the very
moment you accuse him of conspiracy he was ill, wounded in
defending the honour of his child against thy brutal lust. If," he
continued, " we are to draw the sword to avenge our private wrongs,
if we are to prostitute the sacred name of Justice to gratify the
cravings of a private malice, farewell England ! Never shall thy
son be found in arms to support a cause where headstrong passion
leads ; never shall his voice be raised to side with men whose
hearts are deaf to mercy."

Is this thing so ? " demanded Bradshaw, whose stern spirit of
justice has never been impugned, even by his enemies, however
opposed to the crowning act of his political existence, the judgement
of a king. " If the knight hath been wrongfully accused,
let no narrow policy of circumstances, no truckling to the necessity
of party, lead us to injustice ; if rightly, let not weakness rescind
the judgment reason calmly gave."

Ireton, with his usual impetuosity and natural love of cruelty,
sided with Barford ; but the master mind of Cromwell, who knew
how fatal to their hopes would be the threatened disclosure of
Wilton, determined them, and it was finally decided that the old
man's life should be spared.

Farewell," said Barford, rising hastily from his seat ; " this
weakness, this truckling to treason, hath broken all compact
between us. May you find jour new friends as faithful and
serviceable as I have been."

Friend ! " whispered Cromwell, in a harsh voice, " friend ! and
with thee ? — a thing to use, but scorn. Worm ! " he added, " thou
hast been too lavish of thy venom — thy sting is powerless. Thy
very chance of safety lies in clinging, like a wretched parasite, to
the fortunes of the man thou wouldst denounce. Go," he added,
with an air of contempt so cold and haughty that it stung the
traitor to the quick ; " I neither fear nor require thee."

Barford, humbled and humiliated by the reply, which made him
feel not only his worthlessness, but impotence for evil, sank back
in the chair from which he had risen, and, during the rest of the
interview maintained a gloomy silence.

After a hasty discussion on the purport of their visit, the three
last-comers took their leave, and Wilton once more remained alone
with his host.

Richard," said the latter, " thou hast dealt hardly, but justly,
with me. Had I traced in thy wavering from the cause one earthborn
motive, one sordid impulse, despite thy threatened revelation,

this hand had struck thee dead. Start not," he added, as the young
man laid his hand upon his sword ; " my spirit is at peace with
thee ; against the evil-doer of the earth, the oppressor, and the
manslayer alone is it powerful, for so the Lord hath willed it."

His visitor started ; for it was the first time the speaker had ever
communicated to him that he felt himself called by destiny to
accomplish the great work to which he believed himself especially
devoted.

Think not that I am mad," he continued, calmly, seeing the
young man's surprise. " But for years this light hath shone upon
fine. I have seen it pictured, when a boy, e'en in the brook upon
whose banks I flung my weary limbs. It hath haunted me in my
dreams, even to the crowning act which, veiled in mystery and
darkness to men's eyes, is visible to mine. Shall I tell thee," he
added, " when the revelation first came upon me — when it o'er-shadowed
me like the waving of an angel's wing — ay, the Angel
of Death's ? "

May it not be a delusion," demanded his visitor, " born of thick
blood and melancholy thoughts ? "

Oliver shook his head impatiently ; he had too long indulged in
the conviction that he was the man marked out to achieve the
great work of his country's regeneration, to entertain, even for an
instant, the suspicion that he could be deceived.

It is neither a dream nor the creation of an idle brain," he
replied. " I have not sought the work — it hath been thrust upon
me ; and the blind instrument may not resist the Maker's will
While a student at Lincoln's Inn, pursuing a slight knowledge of
the law, I was led by curiosity to witness a great and strange scene
the death of one of England's noblest sons, the gallant, high-souled
Raleigh ; condemned by the crowned miscreant whom God,
to humble human pride, permitted to be king, to die to satisfy the
cruel Spaniard's hate. That day thousands blushed to own the name
of Englishman. Although a boy in years, I felt it keenly when I
beheld that noble man, his head grown grey, his strong heartbreaking,
mount firmly up the tottering scaffold steps, while
Arundel, Doncaster, and the effeminate Hay sat looking on as at a
mummers' spectacle. Proudly he laid his white head on the block,
but not till he had breathed forth words which turned to swords
against the race of tyrants : for a truth once uttered, Wilton, cannot
die. Ages may pass before it finds a resting-place within men's
hearts ; but it will find it, be assured, at last."

And Raleigh ? " demanded the young man, excited not only by
the manner of the speaker, but the description of the scene.

Died as he had lived — with a hero's courage and a martyr's
constancy. As the axe fell," continued Cromwell — "and it swept
like a gleam of lightning through the air — the victim's eye caught
mine ; a portion of his mighty spirit seemed to fall upon me. I

felt that I was doomed to give a lesson to earth's tyrants, to raise a
prostrate people to their rights. I have stumbled in my path, but
never fallen ; for the heart of man is but clay, and cannot always
endure the spirit's glorious presence. I have doubted and trusted
to human policy only to be deceived. From this hour forth my
course is marked. No weakness — no treaty with passion now.
Henceforth my soul is iron ; to Heaven I leave the rest.

Wilton knew too well the mind he had to deal with to doubt
that he would keep his word, and he returned to his home with a
sad yet joyful heart, for its wounds were soothed by the balm his
generous spirit brought.

In the full assurance that her father's life was free from danger,
Mary consented, on Herbert's account, to start for Oxford, expecting
Sir Malcolm to join her there. Armed with a safe-conduct which
her adopted brother had procured from Essex, she started with her
husband and Wilton for her escort. The latter was to accompany
them only till they had passed the lines of the Parliamentarian
army. Thanks to his precaution and guardian care, she arrived
safely within the walls of the University.

A few days afterwards she had the happiness of once more
embracing her father and the faithful Martin, whom the Gate
House Prison had quite cured of the last vestige of Puritanism,
and who was now as confirmed a Royalist as his old master
himself.

Weeks passed away in fruitless negotiations on either side,
during which the little Court assembled round the monarch, whose
sceptre was sliding from his grasp, indulged in every species of
gaiety consistent with that rigid propriety of morals which Charles
exacted from all who approached his person. Whatever his faults,
and they were many as a king, his morals were unimpeachable.
Mary, from her gentle nature, and the melancholy tone which
recent suffering had given to her character, soon became a favourite
with him, and he frequently sought in her gentle conversation a
momentary f forgets fulness of the trials and dangers which threatened
him.

The negotiations between him and the Parliament having failed,
probably from want of sincerity on each side, both parties prepared
once more to take the field. Gladly would Herbert have retired
from the unnatural strife and devoted himself to happiness and his
bride ; but a sense of honour and devotion to the Royal cause
restrained him. The moment of danger was not one in which he
could desert it.

Mary was dissolved in tears ; for the intelligence of the coming
conflict had already reached her when her father entered her apartment
in Christ College, which had been turned into a lodging for
the commanders of the Royal army and the noblemen immediately
attached to the Court. The determined resistance which the king

had displayed to the abolition of the bishoprics and the sweeping
reforms which Parliament demanded in the Church, had raised the
gratitude of the University to the highest pitch ; and they adhered
with a devotion to his cause which neither ill-fortune nor persecution
could afterwards shake.

What, Mary ! " exclaimed the old knight ; " a soldier's girl,
and weeping at the first rattle of the drum ! Dry those tears, or
they will send Herbert to the field a coward ! "

Should he not return ? " sighed the anxious wife.

Pooh ! from how many fields have not I returned ! and, egad,
I think if I were only stronger in the sword-arm that I might
stand a bout with the enemy yet — at least I shall have occasion to
try its mettle on our journey."

Journey ! " repeated Mary.

"Ay, to Exeter — there to attend upon our gracious queen.
Charles thinks your presence, Mary, will console her. Heaven
knows, poor lady, that she hath need of consolation ! "

This was the first intimation given to his daughter of a separation
which to her foreboding heart she feared was to be final. In this,
however, she was deceived : whatever the trials Heaven had still
in store for her, the loss of her husband was not yet numbered
amongst them.

As soon as the note of preparation indicated that hostilities were
near, Mary and her father, attended by Martin and a faithful body
of picked men, set forth to cross the country into Devonshire. Ina
private interview with Charles, the monarch had intrusted her
with letters of the utmost importance for his wife, begging her, if
she should see the least risk of being taken, to destroy them, as
their falling into the hands of his enemies would materially affect
his present position and future plans.

It is a terrible thing for young hearts to separate, even when no
thought of danger, no fear of the future, adds to the parting pang.
But the bridegroom summoned to the field, the bride torn from
her husband's lingering arms, feel that collapsing of the heart, that
utter loneliness which leaves a desert where it found a garden. A
hundred and a hundred times did the young husband imprint a
kiss upon the pale cheek of his wife, and whisper that sad w r ord —
farewell. At each fresh tear the parting hour was delayed, till he
had insensibly accompanied them beyond sight of the lofty spires
of Oxford. Nor was it till he perceived an officer of the enemy,
at the angle of a wood, riding hastily towards the little party, that,
placing the reins of Mary's steed in her father's hand, he imprinted
the last kiss upon her lips, and rode forward to meet the rider.

Defend yourself, sir officer ! " he exclaimed, as soon as he
approached within hearing, for he was determined to prevent the
possibility of the fugitives being tracked, which he feared might
be the case should the officer return to relate what he had seen.

To his surprise, however, the party thus challenged neither drew
his sword nor slackened his rein, but continued to ride as fearlessly
as before towards him.

Are you mad, or desperate," continued Herbert, " that you rush
thus headlong to destruction ? "

Neither," replied the stranger, laughing ; " I am only T tired of
the company I have been lately keeping. Sacre Dieu ! I have
had more psalm-singing," he added, "in three months in England
than my uncle, the Prior of Bethany, ever listened to in his whole
existence, and he lived to see the patriarchal age of ninety-four."

The speaker was a young, handsome man, whose Norman accent
betrayed that he was a foreigner, and the purport of his speech
implied that he was a deserter from the enemy. Still Herbert kept
a watchful eye upon him, not to be thrown off his guard by
appearances.

Your purpose, then, is to join the king ? " he observed.

If a poor gentleman may hope to be received"' replied the
soldier ; " I am sick of conventicles, and fighting with men who
celebrate their victories with fasts and prayer-meetings."

And your name ? "

Currie, late a colonel in the service of the Parliament."
You are a deserter, then ? "

The stranger clapped his hand to his sword, and his handsome
countenance flushed with wounded pride.

Deserter ! " he repeated ; " the phrase is scant courteous ; but
so like you English, who judge the shades of character in preference
to the lights. No, sir," he added, proudly ; " I may resign a command,
in case my heart no longer approves, without meriting, I
trust, the brand of a deserter. Three hours since I placed in the
hands of the general of the Parliament my commission as colonel
in their service ; and am free to offer my sword, like the cadets of
my country, to whom and where I list — always excepting the
natural allegiance which I owe to France."

Herbert offered the young man his hand, and courteously craved
forgiveness of his error. The pledge was accepted, and peace
restored between them. Side by side they crossed over the
Magdalen Bridge, and entered Oxford.

An hour after. Prince Rupert having heard that two Parliament
regiments lay open to assault at Combe, resolved upon a night
a back : and at the head of his cavalry pushed on rapidly into what
was called the Parliament country. Swiftly they continued their
journey over the Chigwell, and through the woods of Sokenchurch,
till they reached the peaceful hamlet of P^otscombe, at about three
in the morning. There, to their disappointment, they found a
troop of horse, who mounted and retreated in good order, after a
Blight skirmish, beating up the people, and giving the alarm to the
other pickets and outposts ; upon which Rupert, with his usual

inconsistency, altered his plan, and turned aside with his whole
force towards Thinner, where he surprised and slaughtered many
Parliamentarians, and took about sixty prisoners.

The sun now rose, and discovered a party of horse, led by the
patriot Hampden, who had slept that night at Walling ord, and who
had vainly urged Essex the day before to strengthen his line by
calling in his outposts.

A sharp encounter presently took place on Chalgrove Field
amongst the standing corn. The Parliamentarians were checked
and thrown into confusion, and Major Gunter slain. Hampden, who
expected every moment to see the head of Essex's column, galloped
up to rally and support the disordered horse of Gunter, and charged
Rupert's right. As he was cheering on his gallant regiment, the
Green Coats, he was struck in the shoulder by two carbine balls,
which broke the bone and entered his body ; the reins fell from
his disabled arm, and with his head bent over his horse's neck, he
turned away in agony from that fatal charge. His followers,
disheartened at the sight, began to retreat, leaving many of their
officers dead upon the field. The Royalists retired with their
prisoners and booty to Oxford.

At first the wounded patriot, supported by that courage which
sustains the patriot's cause, moved in the direction of his father-in-law
Simeon's house, where in his youth he had married the first
wife of his love at Pyrton ; but the enemy's cavalry covered the
plain in that direction, so he turned his horse's head and rode
towards Thane.

It was a glorious sight to see the dying Hampden mastering by
mental courage the body's agony, and, erect in the integrity of his
heart, directing his jaded steed from the plain slippery with blood.
No friend was near him, no kindred voice to breathe one word of
pity or consolation. God knew the fortitude of the nature He had
gifted, and accepted the last homage of its efforts. Finding that
his sight waxed dim and his head swam lightly, Hampden, at the
corner of the wood which skirted the plain, reined in his horse,
and with great difficulty alighted from his gore-stained saddle.
Fastening the bridle to a tree, he sank upon the bank, and prepared
himself by prayer for his final struggle with the King of Terrors.
The bolt had for him no sting ; the armour of integrity was on
him. Gradually he closed his eyes, as he believed, iii death, and
the calm sleep of forgetfulness stole over him. When he awoke
he found himself upon a bed, in a respectable-looking house, and
Mary, Sir Malcolm Keinton, and Martin bending over him.

vol. in. n 2

CHAPTER VII.

Senseless from exhaustion, the great and good soldier of the
people — the only - man, perhaps, in that time of civil broil, whose
heart heat purely and disinterestedly for his country's welfare,
unsullied by a thought or wish of personal aggrandisement —
Hampden had been found by Sir Malcolm Keinton and the
faithful huntsman Martin. At first they thought that the gallant
spirit had fled its tenement for ever. A faint sigh, as they raised
him from the bank where he had fallen, undeceived them ; and,
despite their own danger, they conveyed him to the nearest
habitation, the house of one Ezekiel Browne. It was night
when they arrived, and the hospitable Puritan prevailed on them
to accept of shelter till the morning.

You have, indeed, been messengers of woe," he observed ;
'• but, natheless, you are welcome to my humble roof."

You know him, then ? " observed the knight.

He was the friend of my youth, the companion of my manhood,"
replied their host. " It will be an honour to have inscribed
upon my tomb, ' Here lies the friend of Hampden.' "

With these words he quitted the apartment, for he saw the
surgeon, whom one of his household had been hastily despatched
on horseback to summon, in the act of alighting at his door.

"Hampden ! " repeated Sir Malcolm ; " have we, then, succoured
that malignant enemy of our Royal master ? Had I known it, he
might have lain and rotted where he fell. I have scant mercy for
the Roundheads."

This was uttered with a spirit foreign to the old man's generous
nature ; but at that moment his thoughts were of his ruined home,
and his heart was heavy at seeing his dearly-cherished child a
wayworn fugitive.

Mary heard the observation with regret. To her gentle heart,
all who suffered had a claim to sympathy. Rising from the rude
seat where she had been placed, she laid her hand upon her father's
arm, and gently whispered in his ear the name of the young Master
of Wilton. The old man understood the rebuke, and felt it.

God forgive me ! " he exclaimed, " my ungenerous words, and
impute their sin to the times on which we have fallen. It is the
curse of civil war," he added, " to break the bonds of nature, harden
the heart, and breathe Cain's fratricidal spirit on us. Poor gentleman
! — what right had I to reproach him ? "

His daughter kissed his cheek. The act was like an absolving
angel's ministry. He felt that he was forgiven.

On the first examination of his wounds the surgeon gave hopes
of life ; but the patriot felt himself that they were mortal. Their
pain was excruciating, yet he almost immediately occupied himself

in writing letters to the Parliament concerning public affairs, which
seemed desperate in his eyes, unless the irresolute and lazy spirit
which had directed the army should give place to more manly
resolution and active operation. He again sent to head-quarters to
recommend the correction of those military errors to which he had
fallen a sacrifice, to implore Essex to concentrate his army so as to
cover London, and set at defiance the flying incursions of Rupert's
horse. These duties once performed, his next request was to see
those whose humanity had saved him from dying like a wounded
stag, in solitude, without one kind voice to bid God speed him on
his way — one kindly tear to soothe the pangs of dissolution.

A woman ! " he exclaimed, as the party entered the apartment,
where, pale and exhausted from loss of blood, he lay stretched
upon his couch of suffering. " But I might have guessed it.
Beauty and charity were ever friends. Forgive this churlish
weakness," he added, with a faint smile, " which prevents my
rising' to receive you, and accept the poor expression of a soldier's
thanks."

Shame not our slight service by offering them," replied Mary,
gracefully, " for a simple duty of humanity. Are you much
hurt ? "

To death," answered the patriot, calmly. " My fight on earth
is ended, save that last one which all who partake of Adam's
weakness pay as the penalty of Adam's sin. How went the
battle ? "

As usual," sighed Sir Malcolm. " Childless mothers left on
either side, and widowed women to mark the day with tears, but
no advantage gained. The rebels — the forces of the Parliament,"
he added, correcting himself, unwilling to offer a discourtesy to a
man he had served, by an ungracious expression, " have retired in
good order. Neither are masters of the field." '

"Thank Heaven ! Then the errors of this day may be retrieved.
From your speech, sir, I judge you to be a Royalist."

Mary checked the reply upon her father's lips by simply
answering for him that they were Christians. The speaker understood
the feeling which prompted her words, and repaid her for
them by a smile.

You are journeying towards London," he observed.

Rather from it."

Hampden pressed no farther. The times were such that prudence
commanded those who travelled to conceal their track ; for private
malice frequently borrowed the mask of public duty to gratify its
hate."

Your honour's horse," said old Martin, " is safe in Master
Browne's stable ; — a well-trained beast, sir ; we foufld him close
beside you ; indeed, it was his neighing at our approach which first
drew my master and young lady to the spot. Poor brute, one

would have thought it endowed with human reason, and calling
for assistance, it seemed so toyed when we rode up."

Poor Dapple ! He has been my companion in many a painter
through the green lanes and woods of Hampden ; has borne me.
through many a ha*:d-fought field. I shall never mount him more.
Keep him for my sake, lady ; he is no less gentle than fleet. A
child may guide him. I should regret to think he would fall into
the hands of a harsh master."

The surgeon, who saw that conversation was exhausting the
little that remained of strength in the frame of the dying man,
insisted on his visitors retiring from the chamber, promising that
they should be admitted in the morning to bid him farewell again,
should his state admit it.

Hampden silently raised the hand of Mary to his lips, and she
bent over his couch to bid him farewell for the night. His gentle
spirit was soothed by the holiness of a commiserating woman's
presence.

The house of Ezekiel Browne Alas situated at the extremity of a
wood, about the distance of a bow-shot from the high road, and
was surrounded on one side by a moat ; for it had formerly been a
residence of some note in the county, but having suffered from
decay, it had long been abandoned by the descendants of the family
who built it, and converted into a substantial farmhouse, still
retaining, however, something of its original mansion-like appearance.
Their hospitable host had ordered supper to be prepared ina
long wainscoted room, which ran parallel with the wood. The
windows were guarded by thick oaken shutters, which protected
the lower story from any sudden attack, as it would have required
more than common violence to force them.

The silence of the night was broken only by the loud patter of
the rain, which fell heavily, driven by the wind against the casement.
As it burst in gusts round the gable ends of the old house,
Sir Malcolm rejoiced, as he watched, with the anxiety of parental
love, the pale, harassed features of his child, that her delicate frame
was sheltered from the pitiless storm ; and although the humble
roof which covered them was a poor exchange for the stately halls
of Keinton, he gazed upon them complacently, and forgot that their
master was a Roundhead ; he even mastered his prejudice so far as
to listen patiently, if not devoutly, to the long grace which Master
Browne, according to household custom, pronounced before commencing
the evening meal.

It will prove a rough ride tomorrow, my poor girl," sighed the
old man, listening to the tempest ; " bad roads, wind and rain, are
ill suited to a frame like thine."

Let the maiden tarry here," replied their host ; " if she fears
danger, the obscurity of the roof will prove a protection, and Judith
will willingly give up her chamber for a second night."

"Gladly, father," said his daughter, a pretty, demure-looking
girl, whose rosy cheek and merry eye belied the stiff sober gown
and linen wimple in which she was disguised, rather than arrayed.

Not for me, father. I am country bred, and fear a hard ride
less than many a silken courtier. I would a hundred times rather
brave thee tempest than sit here hour after hour watching the
changeless sky, and counting each pulsation pf my heart as it
beats with the terror of anticipated evil."

"It will not need, lady," observed the huntsman ; " the day will
prove a fine one, or never trust old Martin's judgment more. The
wind shifts too much for the rain to last after the moon has risen ;
besides which, it falls unevenly."

"Ay," said the master of the* house, " like the impetuous bursts
of human passion when sorrow shakes it, before reason has tempered
the measure of its griefs."

His daughter's rosy cheek blanched at the remark ; for, from the
look of the speaker, it was evidently directed towards her, although
uttered in a general sense.

Hush ! " exclaimed Martin, starting from his seat at the lower
end of the table ; " I hear the tread of men."

There was a breathless pause ; the half-raised glass remained
suspended between the table and his lips in the old knight's hand ;
two lai-ge hounds which, half-asleep, had been stretched before the
red embers on the hearth, suddenly pricked up their ears, and one
of them uttered a low, inarticulate growl.

I hear nothing," said Sir Malcolm, finishing his glass, and at
the same time reaching his rapier, which on taking his seat at the
table he had disembarrassed himself of.

Nor I," added the master of the house ; " besides which, the
doors have long been fast."

But I hear them," exclaimed Mary, whose sense of hearing
terror had quickened ; " their tread is stealthy as the tread of men
intent on crime. God," added the poor girl, " for what are we
reserved?"

A low creaking noise attracted the attention of the whole party,
and caused them to direct their glance to one of the shutters. The
large iron bolt which fastened it was distinctly seen to move slowly
round ; it was clear that someone on the outside was trying it. At
the same moment both the dogs broke into a furious bark. Seeing
they were discovered, the assailants, whoever they might be, deemed
it no longer necessary to attempt a surprise, but moved round to
the front of the house. The regular fall of the feet announced
that they were military, and numerous.

Royalists ! " exclaimed Ezekiel Browne, with a stern glance at
his child, who quailed before him.

Parliamentarians, on my life," interrupted Sir Malcolm, who
judged from their silence the party to which they belonged.

Such were the steps of those who burnt and sacked my house at
Keinton."

A loud crash, occasioned by the firing of a petard, caused the
females to scream and the men to start from their seats. Mary
had scarcely time to throw herself before her father to restrain him,
when Bars ord, at the head of a party of fanatics, burst into the room ;
her heart sickened at the sight, for her worst terror was realised.
This time old Martin was restrained by no scruple of conscience,
but would willingly have shot him like a polecat, or any other
beast of prey, had not the person of their host been interposed
between him and his aim.

What seek ye," demanded Ezekiel Browne, " that you burst
into my house as into a den of thieves ? "

"The persons of two traitors to the people's cause — the old
malignant Sir Malcolm Keinton and his daughter."

They are my guests."

They are my prisoners," interrupted the ruffian, with a look of
ferocious joy. " I told you, lady," he added, " that my debt was
not yet paid. None ever yet escaped who wronged me."

The speaker advanced to clasp her, when a side door, which
opened at the bottom of the staircase, slowly opened, and the dying
Hampden, grasping his broken weapon, passed between him and
his victim.

The agony occasioned by the effort caused the perspiration to
fall in large clammy drops from his pale brow, beneath which his
dark eyes Hashed with the energy and wrath of a protecting spirit.

What means this violence ? " he demanded. " Why do I find
midnight robbers disguised in the garb of soldiers of the people ? "

Many of the party drew back ashamed, for they recognised the
noble sufferer — knew well his patriotism, courage, and devotion to
the welfare of his country. But others, who were more under the
influence of Barford, still seemed inclined to press forward and
execute his orders.

They are traitors to the people — in whose name I arrest them."

Without warrant ? "

When danger threatens the State, true patriots stand not upon
form."

Patriots ! " repeated the wounded man, in a tone of withering
scorn ; " ay, such patriots as disgrace the cause they mar instead of
serve — kennel-bred patriots, whom plunder incites to battle and
cruelty to blood ; whose weathercock support gold could buy and
sell like a thing of vilest merchandise — patriots who draw the
sword at passion's impulse without reflection, and sheathe it
without honour."

Here," said Sir Malcolm, " is the safe-conduct we received
when we quitted London from the general of the Parliament,
Read it, noble sir ; it bears the signature of Essex."

Hampden took the paper and vainly endeavoured to decipher it ;
a mist clouded his sight, and with difficulty he kept himself from
fainting.

"A safe-conduct," replied Barforcl, with a triumphant smile, "as
far as Oxford, but not to Exeter, to carry letters from Charles Stuart
to the wanton whom he calls his queen."

Is this so ? " demanded the patriot of the trembling girl he had
protected.

Even at that bitter moment she scorned to deceive the noble
being who questioned her, to pollute her soul by falsehood. Overwhelmed
by anguish at the prospect of again becoming Barford's
prisoner, she sank upon her knees, and clasping the cold, white
hand of the speaker, implored him to protect her.

Save me ! " she sobbed, " for the honour of the mother on whose
chaste bosom you have lain ! — by the memory of the wife whose
love was sunlight to your eyes ! That thing, whom I loathe, yet
fear, hath vowed the ruin of my happiness. Save me from him ! "
she added, pointing to her enemy ; " mercy will bless the deed,
and Heaven reward it with its smile."

Moved by her terror, her youth, and innocence, and the warm
tears which fell upon his clammy hand, Hampden gently raised
her, and directed the fugitives to retreat, by the door through
which he had entered, to his chamber, weakly deeming that the
couch stained with his noble blood would prove a shrine from
which even her enemies would hesitate to drag her. In his own
god-like nature he but half-judged the villainy of man.

What," exclaimed the old knight, " and leave you here to
contend with these ruffians ? Never ! "

For your child's sake," urged the patriot, in a fainting tone.

Heaven, what cowards our affections make us ! "

All this passed in so low a voice that Barford failed to catch its
purport. Judith, who was a quick-witted girl, caught the half-fainting
Mary by the arm, and led, or rather dragged, her to the
staircase ; Sir Malcolm and Martin, who were well armed, followed.
No sooner had they passed than Hampden closed the door, and
placing his back against it, to support himself, gazed with stern
defiance upon the astonished Puritans.

You pass not," he exclaimed, as their unworthy leader advanced,
but over my body."

Be it so," replied the villain, resolutely, for his passions were
excited to the highest pitch hearing the fugitives barricading the
door above. " Though I trample thy soul out, they shall not
escape me ! "

Not one of his followers — and they were the very refuse of the
Roundhead camp — ventured to lay a hand upon the wounded man.
Their leader was compelled to do his sacrilegious work alone.
Springing with a tiger-like bound upon the gallant Hampden, he

avoided the feeble blow aimed at him, and swinging him round,
cast him fainting and helpless on the stone floor of the apartment.
The sufferer's wounds broke out afresh, and his blood stained the
spot where he fell.

Where is now thy boast ? " scoffingly demanded Barford,
where thy trust ?" The distant sound of a bugle echoed through
the pause of the storm, as if to reply to him.

In Heaven and that cause which nerves the good man's arm,"
replied the patriot, raising himself upon his elbow, for he had
recognised each note of the well-known signal. " They come —
my faithful Green-coats — men of high impulse and true hearts —
men who are knit to me in honour's sacred ties — men whom God
pronounces worthy of the name as He weighs them in the balance
of His hand."

The ruffian trembled, for the " Green-coats " was the name by
which the regiment Hampden had armed, raised, and equipped at
his own expense was known. They loved and revered him like a
father, and he relied on them as his children. Several of Bars ord's
men rushed from the apartment to ascertain if the dying chief
was right, and others to escape the consequence of their leader's
brutality.

The tread of the horses now became distinct. One of the Roundheads
returned and told Barford that the words of the man whom
he had outraged were too true — they were indeed the " Green-coats."


I knew it. They come ; my children come — my protectors —
my avengers ! "

The midnight assailants rushed to the door in the vain hope of
escaping, but it was too late. Ezekiel Browne, who had encountered
them at the end of the wood, whither he had gone in the hope of
summoning assistance, had informed them of the danger of their
commander, and they permitted not a man to leave the house.
They were disarmed and bound in a few minutes ; sentries were
placed round the mansion by those who conducted them, and strict
orders given that none should pass from it without a written order,
signed either by Cromwell or Milton, who accompanied them.
The illustrious poet raised his dying friend, and supported him
upon his breast. It was a glorious sight — the martyr of liberty
expiring in the arms of genius. The stern soldiers gathered
mournfully round.

"Thou art dying, Hampden," said Milton, his rich voice
trembling with emotion, " in the prime of manhood and of usefulness,
thy glorious task but half-accomplished."

Heaven," said his friend, " will achieve the rest. Perchance
'tis wisest, best ; success might have taught my heart ambition,
sullied its high thoughts by pride or passion : the soul is oft
corrupted by the clay which shrines it."

Cromwell, who had been questioning the prisoners, and learnt
all that passed, turned abruptly to the speaker, and fixing his glance
upon him with a singular expression, as if his words had awakened
an echo in his own conscious heart, exclaimed:

Pray for those who are left. John ; pray for the weak spirits
struggling with the flesh, that they turn not their glory to a shame,
but pursue the end fearless and undefiled."

The deathless poet — who has left his name a household word
amongst us, whose glorious song, breathing the holiness of thought,
is heard in lands where civilisation smiles in its cradle or slumbers
near its tomb — sank upon his knees beside his friend, and uttered
forth a prayer which hallowed the sacrifice it mourned, free from
the weakness of humanity, from the weak heart's repining. It
rendered thanks for a life of usefulness and a death of honour, and
offered both in humble confidence to the mercy of the Judge of
all men.

The sweet calm of resignation fell on those who heard him; his
deep, rich voice sank like the balm of time upon the grief of all ;
even Cromwell's iron nature was melted at the sound of it.

I cannot give thee tears, John," he exclaimed, when the aspirations
of the poet were at an end — silence, like a cloud, had fallen
over all — " but I can avenge thee. Draw forth a file of men."

The Green-coats guessed his purpose, and shouldering their arms,
formed their ranks with alacrity.

Barford also guessed it, and trembled ; for the cruel and
treacherous are generally cowards.

Lead forth your prisoners," continued the speaker, in a harsh
voice, "and in five minutes let me hear the signal that justice is
accomplished."

Mercy ! " exclaimed several of the men ; " we but obeyed our
orders."

"Justice ! " sternly repeated their judge ; " the measure of your
crimes is full."

Hampden, who had heard the order, opened his half-closed eyes,
and motioned to stay the execution. So much was he beloved, so
perfect was the discipline in which he had trained his men, that
they paused by habit, and waited reverentially for his commands.

"Not for me," he murmured; "not for me. Let not the blood,
even of the guilty, be shed to avenge my injury. Promise me
this," he added, " that I may rest in peace."

Milton smiled — the noble nature of his dying friend had not
belied his judgment.

I promise thee," said Cromwell; "thy last requests are sacred."

Release them, then."

The men waited for no second command — the wish of their leader
was law to them.

The future Protector approached the trembling Barford, released

from death by the mercy of the man he had so brutally assailed ;
and, fixing upon him a glance which long haunted him, bade him
depart.

Go," he exclaimed, " with the reproach of all good men ; and
repent, if Heaven hath given thee grace for penitence. Cross not
my path again ; for if I catch thee tripping but a hair's breadth, as
the Lord liveth, by thy deeds Til judge thee."

With a look of mingled disappointment and rage, the cowardly
wretch quitted the house. The men shrank from him as from a
loathsome thing, fearing lest he should contaminate them by his
touch as he passed by them. Nothing less sacred than the wishes
of their leader could have saved his worthless life from being
sacrificed to their resentment. He wandered forth with a curse
like the brand of Cain upon his brow. The hand which had struck
the wounded Hampden could never again draw the sword in the
cause for which he died.

And now, fellow-soldier in life's battle, a word. Those whom
I would have protected from the fury of that bad man are Royalists."

Royalists ! " repeated Cromwell, with an air of surprise.

On their way to join the queen at Exeter."

The brow of the listener became more and more clouded.

They succoured me when they found me bleeding and senseless
on the field, nor asked the cause I fell for. There is a poor girl,
and a grey-haired man, her father ; give them safe-conduct,
Cromwell, and respect it," he added, " for my sake."

They may be prisoners of importance ; urge it not ; I dare not
tamper with my duty."

"must do it, then," replied the patriot, " I and Milton. I will
sign it with my blood. Few who respect the name of Englishmen
will violate it," he added, with a look of honest pride. " Cromwell,
thou art not master yet! "

The words seemed to be a reply to the whisperings of the iron
soldier's secret conscience : he feared the searching eye of the
dying patriot. Hastily tearing a leaf from his tablets, he wrote the
required protection, and, placing it in his hand, stalked gloomily
from the apartment.

Day was beginning to dawn as he left the house. Hurrying past
the outposts, he plunged into the wood. He was in one of those
humours in which the eye of man was hateful to him ; the very
rustling of the trees annoyed him ; he would, if possible, have fled,
from the echo of his own tread, for a gloomy spirit was upon
him.

I am not master yet," he repeated ; " shall I be master ? and,
if so, at what price, or to what end ? I have wrestled with temptation,
and it will not leave me. Vainly would I persuade myself
that England's good alone directs my energies ; but truth, stern
truth, shows me the darkened shadow of my soul — the slime of the

serpent — which hath dimmed its brightness. Alack ! how weak is
nature confronted with occasion ! "

The man, in whose composition so many opposing elements were
blended, sank upon his knees, in the wild, enthusiastic spirit of his
sect, to call upon the Lord. Fearful was the struggle which his
prayer evinced as he unmasked his heart — laid bare the secret
recesses where melancholy thoughts and foul desires, instinct with
latent life, lay hidden, waiting but a breath to call them into active
being — monsters destroying the happiness and purity of the home
in which they are engendered.

"Why should this good man's death rejoice me ? " he exclaimed ;
why should I regard it as a thorn from my path ; a crowning and
a favour, instead of a lesson and a sorrow ! Strengthen my spirit
to a better judgment, cleanse my soul of its corruptions ! I am asa
reed bowed by passion, unless Thou sustained me ! Uphold me
for thine honour ! Save me from myself."

For nearly an hour the great leader of the Independents continued
in the same impassioned strain till his eloquence was
exhausted, or his soul had found the consolation he required.
Believing as he did in the direct interposition of the Deity in
influencing human events, he considered the consoling influence
which prayer invariably gives to all who employ it fervently as an
answer to his supplications. The kneeling man was startled by a
footstep stealthily making its way through the underwood. He
rose hastily, for he hated that curious eyes should pry into his
weaknesses, or idle tongues babble of the outpourings of his
spirit. Barford, his tempter, again stood beside him.

Still here ! " exclaimed Cromwell, with a frown.

Ay," replied the Puritan, " I follow thy shadow because I know
the greatness of the soul which casts it upon the earth — know that
even now thou hast regretted the weakness of a moment. It is
not yet too late."

Too late for what ? "

To arrest the messenger of Charles Stuart to his queen, perchance
to obtain a key to his machinations against the welfare of
his people and the liberties of England — his secret treaty for the
aid of France."

At this moment Sir Malcolm Keinton, his daughter, and Martin
his young mistress mounted on the steed, poor Hampden's dying
gift — passed at the end of the avenue, escorted by a dozen of the
Green-coats, who, at their commander's request, had undertaken to
protect them beyond the chance of interruption on their way. The
evil spirit wrestled strongly in Cromwell's heart, but the memory
of his pledge to the dying patriot restrained him, and he turned
his eyes away.

The hour escapes thee," whispered Barford ; " anon, and the
occasion may not be recalled. Speak but the word, and "

No," sternly replied the weak but great leader of the Puritans,
my word is given."

Give me authority to do it, then."

That were to break, with a coward's courage, the spirit of my
promise. Begone, and leave me."

"Wilt pardon me the attempt," demanded the villain, " if, in
the people's cause, I make it ? "

Success," said Cromwell, and the perspiration started from his
flushed brow as he spoke, " is seldom unforgiven. I neither threat
nor promise thee ; there are occasions when men decide for themselves,
and their decision is their strength."

Barford required no more ; he understood sufficiently the secret
wishes of the speaker, and, turning silently away, he called around
him a group of men, who, through the underwood, had been
watching his interview with him whom they all feared. Mounting
his horse, he placed himself at their head, and followed with his
party in the track of the fugitives.

That fellow is a true bloodhound," muttered Cromwell, who
was once more alone ; " he hath its patience and ferocious instincts.
Human respects are as dust weighed in the balance of his passions.
Pity hath no voice to move his purpose. Will he succeed ? will he
attempt it ? " he added, musingly. " Well, well, the event is in the
womb of time ; impatience will not accelerate its birth. In the
great work to which I am called, I have no right to reject the
instrument, however vile, which the Lord hath fashioned to my
hand ; the venomous adder and the bloated toad have each a purpose
in the scale of being, and this vile thing of earth is not without
his uses."

The speaker dismissed the subject from his thoughts, and, with
a calm air, directed his heavy step towards the house of Ezekiel
Browne. The morning, as the old huntsman had predicted, proved
a fine one. The breeze, like a child tired of its passionate sobbing,
had sunk to a calm, broken only by faint sighs and whisperings,
as it played through the leaves of the forest. As he approached
the house, Milton met him at the door. Cromwell saw, by the
manly sorrow on his cheek, that all was over — that a great spirit
was at rest.

In compliance with the last request of Hampden, it was decided
that his body should be removed for interment to the village
church which bore his name, that his ashes might repose by the
side of those whom in life he loved with the devotion of a faithful
nature. His gallant regiment claimed and obtained the dangerous
honour of escorting it. We say dangerous, for the flying cavalry
of Rupert were scouring the country in all directions, spreading
terror and desolation wherever they passed. Slowly, and with
arms reversed, they, a troop of stern, determined men, led the way.
As they advanced, the gallant men of Buckinghamshire rose in all

directions to protect the hallowed dust from outrage, and soon
presented so formidable an array that the daring courage of the
Royalists was cooled. They felt a natural disinclination to attack
a body marching under the banner of death ; its holiness awed
them, and although flying parties hung upon their rear, no decided
attempts were made to impede their progress.

As the simple cortege passed along the green lanes and through
the villages, crowds of sturdy yeomen and well-armed peasants
joined it, testifying by their deep but silent sorrow their sense of
the loss their country had sustained.

On the day which preceded the interment it was rumoured that
Rupert intended to attack them, and it was resolved that the ceremony
should take place at midnight.

It was an affecting sight : the old village church, dimly lit by
a few straggling torches, held by determined hands around the
gaping vault, which yawned to receive its noble guest. No
escutcheoned banner waved heavily in the night wind ; no herald,
gorgeously arrayed in his tabard, pronounced the earthly honours
of the deceased ; they were recorded on a monument more durable
than marble — the heart of his country and the gratitude of posterity.
Hampden's death had given to the world a pledge of the sacredness
of the people's cause ; for who could doubt its justice when he died
for it ?

The coffin was placed in the centre of the aisle, adorned
by the broken sword of the deceased. Its pall was the colours of
his favourite regiment. Dr. Giles, an eminent Protestant divine,
stood arrayed in full canonicals at the head ; Milton, Pym, and
Cromwell at its feet. Seldom have the dead been more honoured.
Pickets of the Green-coats were stationed at various distances
round the church to keep off all intruders. The silence of the
scene, whose only pomp was its simplicity, was broken but by the
deep voice of the clergyman as he read the thrilling service of the
dead, or the half-suppressed grief of the mourners, who grieved as
men not without hope.

The service ended, and the ponderous stones rolled over the
sepulchre, the hardy soldiers broke into a hymn, whose enthusiasm
had more of triumph than of sorrow. They felt that they had done
their duty to their beloved commander, and slowly retired from
the spot with stronger faith in the cause for which he fell, with
deeper courage and more stern resolves.

The tramp of the retreating horses, and the sound of their riders'
voices, became fainter and fainter as they receded from the church.
The torches were gradually extinguished as the grey eye of morning
opened in sadness on them.

Cromwell and Milton were left alone in the sacred pile praying
by the dead. More than an hour elapsed before the silence which
reigned was broken by either of them. The soldier was about to

depart, when the poet, hastily waking from his meditation, laid
his hand upon his steel-clad shoulder and restrained him.

Oliver, I would speak with thee as with a brother."

Speak," was the calm reply.

Hath it not often seemed to thee that there are moments in
which the soul throws off the trammels of the flesh, and sees, with
a vision purified from earthly weakness — moments in which time
unlocks the portals of the future, to strengthen and forewarn us ? "

It hath."

E'en such have now passed over me ; my thoughts wandered
from the dead unto the living. He who should have led the
mighty movement of a regenerated people, rising in the strength
of their just rights, hath been called away — thou only canst replace
him."

I ? " repeated the rough soldier, with a look of half-feigned or
real surprise.

Thou," continued the poet ; " and oh, replace him worthily !
Let not ambition render thy rich inheritance a curse. Pursue the
path he hath marked out for thee with the same singleness and
faith he would have trod it ; inscribe thy name upon the pedestal
of England's liberties achieved ; be true to thy high destinies ;
cast back temptations in the tempter's teeth, for they will assail
thee, and see, beyond the greatness of an hour, the glory of
succeeding ages — a pearl richer than any crown thy sword can
win, or weakness offer thee."

Cromwell started. The speaker's words seemed to reply to the
wild dreams which haunted him. It was the searching-knife
applied to an inward ulcer, whose existence he deemed a secret to
all but himself.

This is indeed a dream too wild," he muttered, " for a poet's
ravings — a crown ! to a simple undistinguished soldier ! "

Such things have happened, and may again. Promise me, then,
that if the hour should come thou wilt reject the glittering bait."

Thy request is folly ; but I promise thee ; here, by the ashes
of our mutual friend."

Enough," said Milton ; " let not my words sink unremembered
in thy heart ; the time will come when I shall remind thee of
them. Active duties call thee now ; thy bleeding country shows
her gaping wounds — thy task must be to bind them. To horse !
follow thy destinies. Thine is the task of Joshua — mine, like the
priest of old, to watch and pray."

The speakers exchanged a fervent pressure of the hand, and ina
few moments the hoofs of the war-steed which Cromwell rode
were heard rattling down the path which led from the quiet church.
The poet resumed his place by the grave of the dead, and once
more sank in meditation.

Faithful to the promise given by them to their dying leader, the

VOL. III.

party of Green-coats who conducted Sir Malcolm Keinton and his
daughter on their way did not leave them till they had seen them
beyond the scene of civil war. The moment they considered all
chance of their encountering danger past, they took a brief farewell;
firmly, but courteously, refusing to accept the heavy purse which
the old knight, in his gratitude, would have forced on their
acceptance.

We give our service," said their leader ; " you are not rich
enough, with all your wealth, to purchase or reward it : wrong notour
affection for the dead."

Mary, with a woman's tact, perceived that the men were wounded
by the inconsiderate offer, and thanked them with sweet words and
grateful remembrances to be borne to her preserver ; and the brave
soldiers were more touched and gratified by them than the largess
which her father proffered. Several of them kissed her hand,
others the steed, their leader's gift to the fair fugitive, the possession
of which seemed to give her a right to their lives and services.

The parting was over, and the party silently pursuing their way
across the country, when the young Puritan who had conducted
the escort, as if struck by a sudden recollection, halted his men
and galloped after them. Mary heard the footfall of his steed, and
drew rein to enable him to come up with them.

Lady," he said, " pardon the boldness which detains thee, but
I would ask a parting gift."

Sir Malcolm smiled ; he thought the Roundhead had repented
of his refusal of his gold.

Accept this," said the fair girl, drawing a rich bracelet from
her arm.

Not gold or gems, but one thou wilt scarcely miss," said the
youth, with a sad smile, " although, to me, it will be a precious
relic — a thing to be treasured by my children's children, should
Heaven honour me by permitting me to become a father."

Drawing his sword, he sundered from the mane of the noble
animal on which she rode a lock of its long grey hair. Mary comprehended
at once the feeling which prompted his request, and
even Sir Malcolm blushed at his ungenerous suspicion. The relic
was stained with the noble Hampden's blood. Placing it reverentially
in his bosom, he bowed gravely, and both parties pursued
their separate way.

vol. in. i 2

CHAPTER VIII.

AFTER a weary journey across the country, during which, from
the disturbed state of the times, they were compelled to avoid the
large towns and military stations which broke their route, Sir
Malcolm Keinton, his child, and Martin reached in safety the loyal
town of Exeter, where Henrietta, the queen of Charles I., and her
wandering Court had for a time found safety and rest. The
travellers were severely questioned at the gates by the officer on
guard. The sight of a packet which Mary produced proved a better
passport than even the old knight's name, although his loyalty and
suffering in the Royal cause by this time were extensively known,
especially his having been condemned to death for his supposed
participation in the plot of the poet Waller.

You show scant courtesy, methinks, to an old soldier and loyal
gentleman by these cross-questions. Fear you, brave sir, a worn-out
man and girl should surprise the garrison, and yield the city
to the Roundheads ? A pedlar with his wallet had not been worse
received."

The times are dangerous, noble sir," replied the officer ; " and,
in a war like this, as much mischief is accomplished by intrigue as
by the sword. Pardon the churlishness which prudence, and no
natural lack of courtesy, constrained. The papers of which you
are the bearer are warranty for all. One of my men will conduct
you to the hostel. 'Tis but a bow-shot from the bishop's palace,
where her majesty resides."

Calling to one of his subalterns, a youth of eighteen, whose boyish
features were half-lost beneath the heavy morion which overshadowed
them, he bade him accompany the travellers to the house
of mine host of the Crown, and recommend them to his best care
and usage.

Raising his plumed helmet as he gave the order, he bowed
respectfully to the Lady of Cranfield, and the party turned their
jaded steeds down the narrow street facing the west gate of Exeter.

How name you your captain ? " demanded the old knight of
his conductor ; " he hath a soldier's air, with something of a
lawyer's spirit. Egad ! I have not been so cross-questioned since
I mounted harness. Time hath been I should have braved him to
the buzzard."

It is the Captain Jerningham," replied the youth, not altogether
pleased at the freedom of the observation on his commander, and
which the presence of the lady alone prevented his resenting.

"Humph ! " said Sir Malcolm — ''a Papist."

Our forefathers called us Catholics," answered the boy, who,
like his captain, was of the same persecuted faith.

The reproof was so gentle, so courteous in its tone and spirit,
that the knight felt angry with himself for having vented his spleen

in giving utterance to the obnoxious word, and bit his lip in silence.
Although a devoted Royalist, he was equally attached to the Church
of England, and was one of those of the king's party dissatisfied
with the proclamation by which Charles permitted the Catholic
gentry and Commons of England to take up arms in his defence.

There is nothing like the presence of a lovely, kind-hearted
woman to allay the rising storm of human passion ; her spirit
sweeps like a gentle calm over the waters of strife, and lulls its
waves to rest. Mary was pleased with the young man's forbearance,
and, knowing the hasty temper of her father, which age had
rendered incapable of bearing contradiction, hastened to interpose
her mediating voice.

My father has suffered much, sir officer ; he has seen his home
destroyed, been dragged to a prison, escaped almost by miracle
from death. Believe me, he intended no discourtesy."

I do believe it," replied the boy, fixing his handsome blue eye
upon her, and blushing with pleasure at the tone of kindness in
which she addressed him ; " the father of so fair a lady cannot bea
churl."

By this time they had reached the hostel, where, with some
difficulty, owing to the crowded state of the city, Mary was accommodated
with a chamber facing the long narrow garden which ran
down to the city walls. As for the knight and Martin, they were
compelled to put up with the general room which was open to all
travellers, and beds were made up for them in a small ante-room
which led to the apartment of their charge ; an arrangement which
at least possessed one advantage — it enabled them to watch over
her safety. The fatigue she had undergone since her flight from
Oxford, as well as the wearying agitation both of heart and mind,
had so exhausted her strength, that the old huntsman was obliged
to lift her from her saddle, and, assisted by their conductor, bear
her between them to her couch, where the landlord's buxom
daughter, who thought more of the dashing partisans of the Royal
cause than of the cause itself, for she was continually raving about
plumes and love-locks, undertook to attend her. Her father and
his faithful servitor descended to the general room below. As the
officer was about to take his leave, his duty being accomplished,
the knight laid his hand upon his shoulder.

Come," he exclaimed, " a cup of mine host's best to drown all
unkindness. Tush ! never bear malice for an old man's words.
Ten to one but I have broken a lance with thy grandfather; therefore
it is but natural I. should run a tilt with thee."

To have refused would have been churlish, the invitation was
so frankly given. The wine was ordered ; and Martin, despite
Sir Malcolm's request that he would retire and procure himself
refreshment, insisted upon placing himself behind hi master's
chair, according to the fashion of the time.

It is but a poor exchange for the attendance of Keinton," he
observed ; " and since I am the only follower left, I must makeup,
as well as I can, for the absence of the rest."

Filling a pair of long-stemmed glasses from the heavy leathern
jack containing the generous wine, he handed them first to his
master and then to his guest.

I pledge you, young sir," said the old Royalist. " May I,
without discourtesy, inquire by what name ? "

Henry Vavassour," replied the youth, modestly, at the same
time draining his glass to the inquirer's health.

What ! a son of Richard Vavassour, who commanded in the
Low Countries ? No — impossible ! He was a man when I was
but a boy."

His grandson, sir."

I told you I had broken a lance with your grandfather; as brave
a knight as e'er bore honour on his pennon. We served together
at Ypres. Once I was beaten from the walls, and cast, like a dead
dog, into the moat, and must have sunk there, smothered with
blood and stagnant water, had not the sturdy soldier dragged me
from the dying and the slain. I have never forgotten the deed ;
the memory of it is as fresh as if it occurred but yesterday, while
things of yesterday pass unremembered. I am happy to grasp his
grandson by the hand, and meet him battling in the right good
cause too. But where else," he added, " should a Vavassour be
found ? "

The young man felt pleased and proud at the honourable commendation
of his grandsire, whom he just remembered as a repaired,
aged man, full of kind sympathies and gentle words, such
as would fix their memory on the heart of youth — treasures and
lessons for after-life to ponder on.

At a table opposite to where the speakers were sitting were three
or four officers of the Royal army, who were displaying much
loyalty in their cups, slaying their enemies freely with their
tongues, and boasting what they would do, should opportunity call
on them. Sir Malcolm frequently paused in his conversation to
listen to their vapourings. They were mere braggart-mongers,
fellows whose courage was of the wine, whose loyalty no deeper
than the lip. In his campaigning he had met with hundreds such,
and knew how to appreciate them. One of them, a tall, ferocious-looking
fellow, was arrayed in a suit of yellow safety, with mule
passementerie ; about the breast he was trussed
like a capon, and his faded ribbons and tags tied in as many points
as there was room on his slashed doublet and wide breeches to
bear. Long, rakish love-locks hung on either side of his cheek.
His moustache and peaked beard, coquettishly trimmed, were
extended, doubtless to give a gallant, devil-may-care expression to
his harsh features, which were marked by a mingled feeling of

cunning and ferocity. A rapier, of unusual length, depended from
a broad embroidered shoulder-belt, which partially concealed the
faded tail of his dilapidated doublet. A large beaver, with a
drooping orange-coloured feather, set jauntily upon his head,
completed his costume.

I tell you," he exclaimed to his admiring companions, who
evidently looked up to him as an oracle, "that had the king
employed men of experience — soldiers who have seen service — in
the conduct of this war, it had been long since ended. I for one
would ask no better sport than to drive these Puritanical, canting
rascals like a herd of swine before me. I have done bolder things
in New Spain and in the Low Countries ; but true bravery and
simple honesty seldom find favour at Court."

"And yet you are well received by her majesty," observed one
of his party.

Ay, women — women — that is a different thing," continued the
speaker, with an air of conceited satisfaction ; "they know how to
judge of a man's real merits. There is no jealousy to mar a pretty
fellow's fortune there. Did it depend upon the queen, I know
who would have a voice in the affair."

How name you this whisper — this braggart — in mere words ? "
demanded Sir Malcolm.

Captain Briancourt," was the reply.

The name is a good one."

True," said the youth, smiling ; " but no one knows how he
came by it. Perhaps, like his doublet and hose, it has served
half-a-dozen possessors. Such men take names and drop them as
fair dames do their masks when they have served the occasion."

Old Martin, who overheard the last observation, smiled significantly.
He had been eying the party opposite for some time, and
seemed not a little amused by his braggart vapourings.

The king," continued the fellow, " will ruin his cause by
trusting Papists and foreigners. Is there not enough true English
blood to right the tottering throne without such help ? What
cause did a Papist ever join but to betray ? "

That is false ! " exclaimed Henry Vavassour, starting indignantly
from his seat. " Our religion is to our God, our loyalty to
our sovereign. Both are equally beyond suspicion or reproach,"

Captain Briancourt eyed the speaker with an air of amused
surprise. His youth and stripling-like appearance promised no
very dangerous foe ; and as it was beginning to be necessary for
him to do something to prove beyond mere words that the high
character he had given himself for courage was not all a boast, he
resolved to fasten a quarrel on him.

False ? " he exclaimed. "By the beard of St. Ago — as they say
in Spain — but you shall eat your words, or I'll spit you like a Dutch
herring ! "

The only reply of Henry Vavassour was to draw his sword, and
call upon the speaker to do the same. When the bully saw the
firm attitude and determined courage of his boyish assailant, his
courage began to cool; and although he rose from his seat and laid
his hand upon his rapier, he was a long time in bringing it forth
from its sheath.

Does it stick, Peter ? " exclaimed Martin, with a broad grin
upon his countenance.

The fellow seemed thunderstruck; but feeling the necessity of
doing something to maintain his reputation, he desperately drew
his weapon and stoodoipon his guard. It was evident to all that
his hand shook.

"Show him your back, Peter," continued Martin, in the same
mocking tone ; " this noble gentleman will hardly stain his sword
by striking that."

Just as the combatants were about to exchange the first pass, Sir
Malcolm Keinton rose from his seat and thrust himself between
them, to the surprise of Henry Vavassour, and the no small satisfaction
of the brave Captain Briancourt.

Hold ! " cried the knight. " Young gentleman, I request you
to sheathe your sword, or wait at least till you know against whom
you draw it. Martin," he added, " do you know this man ? "

As well as your honour does," said the huntsman.

"I? Why I never saw him before in all my life. I have no
recollection of him."

But he has of you — haven't you, Peter ? "

Explain," impatiently continued his master.

What ! has your honour forgotten Peter Hurl, whom you
sentenced to be flogged for deer-stealing thirteen years since ? I'd
swear to the hangdog's look amongst a thousand."

The admirers of the blustering captain were taken aback by this
firm declaration of the old huntsman, which the confusion and
rage of the fellow tended to confirm. The more he blustered and
swore, the less they appeared to believe him.

Peter Hurl ! " exclaimed the still doubtful knight ; " and this
is no error, Martin ? "

None, Sir Malcolm ; why he is as well known in every gaol in
Warwickshire as your worship is in Keinton; he hath been whipped
from pillar to post, his ears once slit for perjury ; there is not a
greater thief unchanged ; and as for poaching, your honour's deer
have often been acquainted with his cross-bow."

Liar again," roared the fellow ; " this is a subterfuge to deprive
a gallant gentleman of his revenge."

Show thy back, Peter : an it be not scarred by Hugh Tinkler
the hangman's whip, I will be content that this goodly company
shall lash mine with their sword-belts. Strip, man, and clear
thyself."

"Ay," repeated several of the soldiers and citizens who had
gathered round from, the other tables, "the old man speaks
advisedly ; strip, such marks are easily recognised."

Half-mad with rage and mortification, the infuriated ruffian
made a thrust with his rapier at the man who had exposed him.
Fortunately, Martin was as active as he was faithful. Nimbly
slipping on one side, he received the weapon between his arm and
his side, the edge slightly grazing the latter. Grappling with his
assailant, he cast him on the ground, amid the cheers of the
bystanders, who were disgusted with the attempt upon the life of
an unarmed man.

To the proof — the proof — strip him ! " cried several.

In a second a dozen hands were laid upon the prostrate wretch,
and his doublet, torn into a hundred shreds, soon exposed his
lacerated and naked back. The scars were as regularly marked as
if a painter had designed them, and the red and white seams rose
and fell alternately, bearing witness to the hangman's skill in his
disgusting work.

There they are," observed Martin, triumphantly ; " anyone
who knows the man may swear to Hugh Tinkler's handiwork.
Faith, he hath scarred thee rarely."

Amid the hooting of the guests, the discovered felon slowly
rose, and, drawing his faded cloak about him to hide his shame,
fixed a glance so full of deadly hate and malice uporf the undaunted
huntsman that many shuddered, and marked him in their own
minds as a doomed man. The object of his vindictive passion only
smiled.

There is many an old score between us, Martin," he exclaimed,
in a deep, hoarse voice ; " but this is the sum of all. Hide where
thou wilt, I'll ferret thee like a bloodhound ! I'll drain thy heart,
but I will have vengeance ! Heaven shall not bar me from it, or
hell appal me in the seeking it ! I'll move all earth to gain it !
Look to thyself when we meet again ! "

Amid the silence of the crowd, the exposed bully slowly stalked
away.

I trust to God and a clear conscience," said Martin, cheerfully ;
I, too, know a trick or two : an he catch me tripping, let him
make the most on't."

This shall be seen to," added the indignant knight ; " I will
wait upon the governor in the morning and have the rascal laid
by the heels again ; such gallows-birds but badly serve the cause
which enlists them in its service."

An aged citizen, of a sedate appearance, who had been a quiet
spectator of the scene, pulled the old knight by the sleeve, and
whispered in his ear :

Better let him alone, Sir Malcolm ; he has friends too powerful
to be braved with impunity."

What friends ? What meanest thou ? "

That this cut-throat, this bully, is in the confidence of our
gracious queen," added the speaker, in the same undertone.

I'll expose him, then," replied the enraged Sir Malcolm ;
'sdeath, I have spoken often to her father with a soldier's frankness
; if she be worthy of the blood of the great Henri she will
listen, queen as she is, to an old man's honesty."

The friendly citizen shook his head doubtingly, and soon after
quitted the hostel.

Egad," said the knight, after his young friend had bidden him
adieu, " but quarrels and adventures spring up like mushrooms.
I shall have Jack Tapster spitting next upon my beard, or a tailor
sending me a cartel. Peter Hurl — a thing born on my own lands,
a ruffian whom I could have hanged years since, and would have
done it but for the foolish idea that hanging is not the best use to
put a man to — to brave me. Mad world ! mad world ! An it
continue," he muttered to himself, " I shall turn driveller like the
rest."

The following morning Sir Malcolm Keinton received her
majesty's commands to wait upon her at the palace, where the
bishop offered a hospitality which, however generous, was but a
poor exchange for the splendour of the Court of England.
Henrietta Maria, although she had long been a wife and mother,
still retained a considerable portion of that feminine beauty which
from the very first enslaved the affections of her husband, and
made him but too often the pliant instrument of her passions and
prejudices when he should have been the king. Impetuous, like
most Frenchwomen, and nurtured in the adulation of Courts, she
was a true Bourbon — fond of power, easily excited, and not naturally
cruel, but capable of being made so by the least opposition to her
will.

Her majesty was impatiently pacing the floor of a small chamber
which served her as a cabinet, attended only by her chamberlain,
Lord Neville, and two or three old courtiers, when the knight was
announced. Her features were flushed with anger, for she had
just received a deputation of the clergy, headed by the prelate,
whose guest she was, petitioning her to dismiss her Popish chaplain,
whose presence was a scandal to the strictly Protestant citizens of
Exeter. A request at such a moment was almost tantamount to a
command. She felt it as a woman, and resented it as a queen.

Be it so ! " she exclaimed. " Inform the governor that with
tomorrow's sun I shall depart. Why not this day ? Yes, I will
not sleep another night in their inhospitable walls. What ! deny
a daughter of France and a crowned queen the privilege to worship
God as her forefathers worshipped ? "

It was with the utmost difficulty that she suffered herself to be
persuaded by her counsellors to revoke her decision; but no inducement

could lead her to consent to the departure of her confessor
even for an hour ; although the reverend courtier, with more
wisdom than his royal mistress, himself proposed it. Perhaps he
longed once more to revisit the sunny shores of France, or, with
true priestly instinct, foresaw the waning fortunes of his royal
penitent, and deemed it prudent to retire in time.

This decision of your majesty is deeply to be regretted; it will
affect the loyalty of the citizens."

Let it; we have men enough to keep the walls without them.
Rather would I abandon crown and throne, quit England for ever,
and seek a generous hospitality in France, than submit to such
humiliation. Speak of it no more."

Little did Henrietta deem what the generous hospitality of
France would prove when she thus boastingly alluded to it.
Perhaps when, in after years, she was compelled to keep her bed
in the palace of the Louvre, for lack of means to purchase wood to
warm her scantily furnished chamber, the widowed, crowmless
queen reflected on her inconsiderate words.

Your majesty," began the chamberlain, whose long service had
conferred almost the privilege of remonstrating, " let me entreat
you to consider "

I have considered," interrupted Henrietta, haughtily, " and
will not be dictated to by subjects. Think you," she added, " I
will yield to the demands of these greasy burghers wdiat I have
refused to my husband's entreaties — the demands of the Parliament
? We can dispense with the service of all those whom
prudence may afford a pretext to show their lack of loyalty."

Madam," replied the aged peer, deeply moved by her unjust
suspicion, " were you — as I trust you soon will be again — firmly
seated on the throne, I might take the intimation, and resign my
office. As it is, death alone can divorce me from it ; perchance I
will not tarry long."

Neville," exclaimed the queen, aroused by the old man's reply
to a sense of her injustice, "forgive me. Misfortune must have
changed me sadly ere I could have been forgetful of faith and
loyalty like thine. It was not always thus," she added ; " I once
was generous — trusting — once believed that words conveyed men's
thoughts. Alas ! I have long since found that they conceal them."

At this moment the page in waiting announced the arrival of Sir
Malcolm Keinton.

"Admit him," said her majesty, instantly assuming her usual
self-possession : " doubtless he brings me tidings of my husband."

The fair speaker scarcely gave the gallant old Royalist time to
kneel and kiss her hand before she hastily demanded his letters.
The knight understood her natural impatience, and drew a packet
from his doublet. He would, according to the usual etiquette,
have presented it upon his knee, but she hastily snatched it from

his hand, and eagerly broke the seal. It was merely an affectionate
letter, cautiously worded, that should it fall into the hands of the
enemy it might convey no proof detrimental to the writer's
interest. The same packet also inclosed a copy of the treaty
proposed by Essex, Fairfax, and the more moderate portion of the
Parliamentarians. In it they proposed that Charles should
disband his army, the Commons undertaking to do the same ;
that the bishops should be abolished, the ritual of the Church of
England undergo a yet further reformation, and that the king
should renounce for ever for himself and heirs the long-disputed
right of levying taxes under the title of ship-money, royal bounties,
&c, without the consent of Parliament.

The rough draft of these humiliating propositions was inclosed
for the queen's opinion and advice.

What," she exclaimed, as soon as she had perused the paper,
does Charles send such propositions to his queen ? The blood of
Lorraine hath indeed become tempered in his veins ; your
Northern skies have chilled it. Rather would I at once resign the
crown than live to wear it a dishonoured thing whom men have
spared from pity. This is my answer," she added, tearing up the
document, and trampling it beneath her feet; " as I tread on it, so
would I trample on the traitors' necks. Oh ! but for strength to
wield my father's sword ! I'd crush the hornets in their nest of
treason."

There was a respectful silence in the apartment, for the queen's
storm of passion terminated, as is usual with persons of a nervous,
excitable temperament, in a flood of tears.

Have you no other letters ? " she at last demanded.

None, madam," replied Sir Malcolm, who gazed with interest
on the beautiful, unhappy being before him.

'Tis well ; we will thank our husband for his confidence,"
resumed Henrietta, who was deeply mortified at the want of
that quality in Charles's letter, so different from his usual uxorious
ones. " There is little now at the Court of your queen," she added,
to attract the gay or grave ; it is the shadow of a pageant, a regal
robe turned to a funeral pall. We cannot promise Sir Malcolm
Keinton the reception we should wish to give his well-known
loyalty and valour, but will do our best to teach him how to forget
his sufferings in the Royal cause."

The knight bowed, and intimated that, as soon as his daughter,
whom fatigue had compelled to keep her chamber, should be
sufficiently recovered, they would have the honour of offering
their homage to her majesty.

Daughter," repeated Henrietta, quickly, as if catching at some
sudden idea ; "was the lady at Oxford with thee ? "

The knight respectfully intimated that she was.

And saw the king frequently ? "

Frequently," replied Sir Malcolm, not altogether pleased with
the style of questioning.

I see, I see," she exclaimed ; " Charles has been so often
betrayed by men, that this time he has trusted to a woman's
fidelity and wit. My life upon it, good Sir Malcolm Keinton, but
your daughter is the bearer of the letters which contain the real
sentiments of Charles."

A sudden light broke in upon the old man. The supposition of
the queen explained the desire Mary had expressed to accompany
him, despite her illness from exhaustion, and her refusal during
their journey even to partially undress, lest she should be separated
for an instant from her precious charge.

I believe you are right, madam," replied the old man, bowing.
The supposition explains my daughter's watchfulness and terror
of falling into the hands of the enemy, although we had a safeguard
from the leaders."

Where is the lady ? "

"At the hostel of the Crown, under the guard of a faithful
servitor — all that remains of the household state of Keinton."

I must see her," murmured the queen. " This fever of
impatience drinks my blood, and with it all life's energies. Sir
Malcolm Keinton, have you confidence in the faith of your
attendant ? Is he a man to trust, or a mere hireling, who sells his
master and service to the first bidder for his honesty ? "

He was bred upon my lands at Keinton ; I would answer for
him with my life."

Be with him, then, an hour before midnight at the old gate in
the palace garden wall. Neville will point it out to you. I will
visit your sick child."

Madam ! "

I know what you would say ; a daughter of France, a queen
of England in a common hostel ; but times have changed, sir
knight, and we have changed with them. Our resolution is taken ;
we will be there."

Could the fair speaker have seen the page whose ear, during her
interview with the knight, was glued to the keyhole of the door of
the cabinet, she might have changed her resolution.

An hour after, the boy was closeted with Barford, who, with the
true perseverance of the bloodhound, had followed his prey from
Oxford to Exeter. His plan was at once taken, and as he had gold
to buy men's consciences with, he soon found instruments to
execute them.

Punctual to the appointed hour, Sir Malcolm Keinton and old
Martin set forth on their expedition to escort the queen to the
hostel. The night was a fine one ; scarcely a cloud obscured the
heavens ; the breeze was crisp and fresh, but not sufficiently so to
chill the blood seasoned by health and exercise.

Mary was alone in her chamber. Despite her illness, she had
risen, and donned her most suitable attire to receive her august
visitor. Her next act was to remove the important papers with
which she had been intrusted from the lining of her kirtle, and
place them in a small cabinet which stood in a recess at the upper
end of the room. Turning the key in the drawer for greater
security, she resumed her seat by the window.

Sadness fell upon her soul. The spirit of the past flitted over
her, and the shadow of his wing left broken memories, regrets, and
sighs. Her childhood, passed like a wild, happy bird, in the dear
woods of Keinton, with Wilton by her side — her companion, friend,
and guide— the willing slave and obedient minister to every
childish whim or mad frolic of his capricious charge, whom, even
as a boy, he loved with a sentiment he was too young to understand,
and such as brothers never feel. Thoughts of her girlhood
woman's May, which,if it leave no freshness in the heart, the time
which succeeds is winter — next came over her. Then poor Wilton's
struggles with his hopeless passion, his sighs, his tears, his generous
rivalry with Herbert — never disparaging him by word or look ;
his sorrow at her loss, and more than brother's love. Last the
fear of her husband's safety haunted her ; daily, nay almost hourly,
she saw him wounded, bleeding, dying ; his last word her name —
his last breath exhaling in an attempt to bless it.

Why," she murmured, " at such a moment, do thoughts like
these fall on me ? When I have most need of energy, I find myself
the weakest. Heart, heart, thou art a sad mystery ; and mine hath
been so tried, its chords relax at last, and, like the strained strings
of a lute, are sadly out of tune."

Her reveries were broken by a murmur, which sounded like
voices whispering under her chamber window. At first she
fancied she was deceived ; listened, and became convinced again.
The chamber in which she lodged was at the end of a long corridor,
lined with large cabinets containing the household gear of the host
of the Crown, and its bay window looked into the long, narrow
garden, which extended to the city walls. Mary suddenly
remembered that she was so far from the general room, where the
guests were carousing, that even if she screamed for help there
was but a faint chance of being overheard ; and, in the terrors
which assailed her, regretted that old Martin had not remained to
protect her. She had great confidence, since the defence of Keinton,
in the huntsman's presence of mind and courage.

I grow weak and childish in my fear," she said, half-aloud.
Here, in the well-guarded city of Exeter, in a public hostel, filled
with guests, what have I to dread ? "

Here she broke into the snatch of an old song, endeavouring to
cheat herself into a courage she was far, very far, from feeling.
At first her voice sounded firm and clear, as the note of the skylark

when it throws the dew from its strong wing, and soars
towards heaven to hymn its matin song ; but after a few bars they
became fainter and fainter. As the last word died away, the handle
of the door of her chamber was slowly but distinctly seen to turn;
someone was trying it.

She had plainly heard during her song the cautious tread of
someone in the corridor. The flooring of the old house had got
so disjointed by time that the planks groaned 'neath the heavy
stealthy step, or gave a sharp sound like the cry of a cricket at a
light one. Her ear might have been deceived, but her eye could
not ; she had seen the handle of the door move, and she absolutely
gasped with terror.

She was not doomed to remain long in suspense. The door
opened, and a tall, ferocious-looking ruffian entered the room,
carefully closing it after him. He was attired in the remains of a
yellow doublet and hose, and wore the formidable long rapier
described in the commencement of the chapter. We need not say
that it was the convicted felon Captain Briancourt, alias Peter
Hurl. Barford had found him a ready-made villain to his hands,
boiling for revenge. He had lately been so unsuccessful himself
that he determined this time to employ another. The voices
which Mary had heard beneath her window had been theirs. The
page had betrayed the secret of the queen's intended visit. They
knew that the Lady of Cranfield would be left alone.

Thank Heaven, it is not Barford," was her first thought, as she
gazed on the strongly marked features of the intruder, who advanced
towards the chair on which she was sitting.

What would you ? " she demanded, with more firmness than
she gave herself courage for ; " murder ? "

Not unless it's necessary," replied the bully. " I have never
cut a throat yet when I could decently avoid it. Where are the
papers Charles Stuart intrusted you with for the queen ? "

"Where should they be if not in the hands of her majesty ?"

The fellow shook his head ; he understood the equivoque of her
reply ; besides, his employer was too well informed.

They will be," he said, " if I am fool enough to wait for her
arrival. The old knight and Martin will soon be back. Now hear
me, lady : I have no positive desire to harm you ; but I must have
those papers. I give you three minutes to consider, at the end of
which time I'll cut your throat first and rifle your body afterwards.
I know they are concealed upon your person."

No — on my soul."

Not so loud, lady," said Peter, at the same time drawing a long
Spanish knife from his belt, and drawing it like a butcher across
his finger to ascertain the edge. " I am too old a bird to be trapped
by words ; many a wretch on the Spanish Main who pleaded
poverty with oaths and tears have I found quilted with doubloons

when I came to rip up his rags. I have committed perjury too
often myself ever to trust the words of another."

Wretch ! "

All the worse to deal with. Wretches generally stick to their
promise when 'tis for evil. Two minutes are already gone."

Oh, mercy ! mercy ! " said the wretched girl, sinking on her
knees. " Listen to me : I have gold and jewels, of value greater
perchance than the vile bribe for which you have undertaken this
most cruel task. They shall be yours — freely, honestly yours ;
but, as you are a man, do not harm me. I have an aged father."

I know it," replied the villain, gnashing his teeth with rage.
He has left his memory on my scarred back."

Peter Hurl ! " shrieked Mary ; " then I have little hope."

The papers," he added, with a ferocious whisper.

Never ! Butcher, do thine office— I will not betray either my
promise to God or my loyalty to my king ! "

Without uttering a word, the ruffian twined his left hand in her
long tresses, which floated over her shoulders, and threw her head
back to make surer of his blow. She was on her knees — from
which, indeed, she had never risen since the moment of her
supplication. In the position in which he held her, her fair,
innocent bosom became exposed to his licentious gaze, and an idea
more terrible than death instantly struck him ; an idea which
promised a deep revenge for the mortification he had that day
received, as well as the gratification of a brutal passion.

I have still time," he muttered, raising her like a child in his
arms, and bearing her towards the couch.

Kill me ! " shrieked the girl, who at once perceived his infamous
design ; " kill me ! and God forgive thee for the deed."

That may follow afterwards."

Desperate was the struggle which ensued between insulted virtue
and excited passion. Mary was nearly exhausted with her frantic
efforts. The villain smiled hideously as he perceived her strength
was failing her.

Human courage could hold out no longer.

Forbear," she sobbed, " and the papers are yours."

Where are they ? "

In that cabinet. Take them."

While you escape by the door ? Not so green. Do you take
them from the drawer and give them to me."

The fellow's doubt was a natural one ; for the cabinet was at one
end of the room and the entrance at another.

A sudden gleam of hope flashed on the mind of Mary at the
proposition. She remembered that her father had placed his pistols
in one of the drawers on his. arrival at the hostel, and she had not
seen him take them again on his departure. With the speed of a
fawn she rushed to the cabinet, and tore open the drawer.

Now, where are they ? "

Here, villain ! " exclaimed the girl, turning suddenly round
and levelling a pistol at his head. " One step — lessen the distance
but a hair's breadth between us, and the bullet whistles through
your brain. I am alone — maddened by terror, frantic with desperation.
I would not have your blood upon my soul ; but if you
advance, you die."

You dare not."

Trust not to that," she continued ; " I have a hand as firm as
thine hath been for evil. Traitor, I defy thee. Help ! murder !
treason ! " she shrieked, at the very stretch of her voice ; for, withall
her boasting, she was loth to shed his blood.

Peter Hurl was a coward, and cruel men generally are. As he
upon the excited, beautiful being before him, he read an
expression in her flashing eye which awed him. Brave death he
dared not ; but, cur-like, was about to fly like a tiger baffled in its
spring, when the door was burst open, and Henry Vavassour and
a party of Royalists entered the room. Several of them were
soldiers of the queen's guard. Mary no sooner beheld him than
she dropped the weapon, and sank fainting in his arms ; the rest
quickly secured the intended murderer.

The blood rushed to the heart of the youth as he felt that
graceful head reclining on his shoulder, her heart beating wildly
against his. Unconscious of the intoxicating poison, he drained
the delicious chalice of the Circe — hope. Alas ! he little knew the
gall which rested at the bottom. His ardent imagination had been
struck, at the first moment he beheld her, by her beauty ; and the
rich music of her voice, as she atoned for her father's first want
of courtesy, had awakened an echo in his heart sadly heard in after-years.


Just as Mary was recovering, her father, Martin, and a lady,
whose features were masked, entered the apartment. As soon asher
tears and sobs would permit her, the rescued girl explained
the attempt to obtain the papers, and the double outrage from
which she had escaped.

Brave girl ! " exclaimed her father ; " and the pistol, after all,
was not charged."

Peter Hurl ground his teeth with impotent rage when he heard
him.

The alarm had been conveyed into the street, and Captain
Jerningham, who had been making his usual rounds, attended by
a picket, now made his appearance.

Captain Jerningham, you see yon ruffian ? " exclaimed the
masked lady.

I do."

Lead him forth, and let a halter from the nearest tree pay the
villain for this night's work. Take him from my sight."

VOL. III. K 2

I dare not, madam. I have no power to pronounce or execute
so just a sentence. His fate must be referred to the queen."

"The queen hath spoken it," said the lady, unmasking, and
discovering her features. "We will answer for our judgment to
God and to our husband."

All present bent the knee, except the military, who presented
arms ; for the speaker was Henrietta Maria, queen of England.

CHAPTER IX.

No sooner did the blustering bully behold the countenance of
Henrietta Maria, and heard her fearful order, than his wine-pot
courage left him, and he became as abject in his terror as he had
previously been brutal and daring in the outrage he had offered to
helpless innocence. Falling on his knees, he clung despairingly
to the long, dark mantle which enveloped the person of the queen,
and piteously implored for life — urging his loyalty, services, and
what he was ready to undertake in support of the Royal cause.
Women invariably despise cowardice in man. There is something
in it repellent to their nature, and the haughty Frenchwoman
listened to his prayers with cold disdain. Probably she had not
much faith in the promise of a man whose resolution was in his
tongue, and whose heart was weaker than a girl's.

Spare me," he cried ; " I am not fit to die. I must — I will
have time to repent, to plead to God for mercy. My sins would
damn a legion. Plunge me in prison ; make me the companion
of the foul toad and newt ; let my dungeon be dark as my own
thoughts ; — I ask but life — a week, a day ! "

Not an hour. What ! in the very precincts of our Court, an
attempt upon the honour of a noble lady ! — to seize, like a felon
traitor, the letters of our husband ! Away with him ! "

Mercy ! mercy ! "

Justice, justice," replied the queen.

Two of the halberdiers, on a sign from Captain Jerningham,
advanced, and laid their iron grasp upon his shoulder. He shivered
at their touch as at the grasp of that grim skeleton whose blow is
death. Turning towards Mary, who was still leaning, pale and
half-fainting, on the shoulder of Henry Vavassour, he besought her
to intercede for him, swearing by every saint in heaven that he
never meant to harm her — that he was mad drunk — called Heaven
to witness his loyalty at the very moment he had betrayed it.
Terrified as the poor girl had been, she could not listen unmoved
to his frantic prayer. His agony appalled her ; and although she
turned from him with heart-loathing and disgust, it was to bend
the knee, and solicit that his life might at least be spared. A gleam

of hope flashed from his bloodshot eye as Peter Hurl listened to
her generous pleading. He turned imploringly from her to
Henrietta to watch her countenance. His heart turned cold as he
marked its firm and unrelenting expression.

Not even to your prayer, deeply as we are indebted to your
service, will we loose this bloodhound on our track. Why are we
not obeyed ? "

Remove him," exclaimed Jerningham, whose indignation, since
he had heard his crime, almost equalled her majesty's.

The soldiers now seized him by the arms, and forcibly raised
him from his knees. Despite his desperate struggles, they bound
his arms with cords. No sooner did the wretch feel that he was
pinioned, than hope forsook him, and he became as fearful in his
curses as he had previously been contemptible in his supplications.
His eyes rolled wildly as he tried to fix them on the queen.

You shall answer for my soul to God ! " he shrieked. " My
blood fall on you ; the blood of the lost — the damned ! I curse
you in your children. May your days be lonely and cheered —
crownless ! "

Then, as a gleam of hope came over him, he again wept, and
passionately pleaded for life.

Henrietta's last reply was a silent waving of the hand as she
turned away.

Peter was now near the door, held, or rather dragged there, by
the united efforts of half-a-dozen men. Suddenly breaking from
them, he rushed towards the queen, and had not his arms been
confined, doubtless would have raised his hands against her.
Grinding his teeth with rage at his impotence for further evil, he
cried aloud: "Murderess!" and absolutely spat upon her robe.

Not the sword, young man," said Henrietta, calmly, as Henry
Yavassour, in his horror at the outrage, was rushing upon him.
The cord, the cord ; he is too ignoble for a soldier's death."

Listen," cried Peter, hoarsely. " That she-wolf would have
bribed me to murder. Blood is on her soul, if not her hands ; the
blood of Cromwell — a thousand pounds — knife ! "

Here his words were broken by the knuckles of the soldiers,
who held him by the throat as they forced him from the apartment.
His shrieks, as they dragged him through the passage, long echoed
in the ears of those who heard him. Martin, determined to see the
last of his old enemy, slipped out behind the guard which remained,
and followed them.

This is no scene, poor girl, for you," sighed the queen ;
although the hospitality is poor we have to offer, you shall not
refuse it. Sir Malcolm Keinton," she added, turning to the knight,
you and your daughter must accompany us to the palace. We
attach her to our service and our person."

A command so expressly given could only be replied to by a

grateful acquiescence ; and Mary, although she disapproved of the
speaker's hasty judgment, rejoiced in the offer ; it was a pledge,
at least, of protection.

Replacing her mask, and leaning on the arm of Lord Neville,
who, with several officers of her household, had arrived, her
majesty descended the narrow staircase of the hostel, to the
astonishment of the crowd of guests in the room beneath. There
was a respectful silence as she passed, the soldiers forming a line
on either side to protect her passage. Mary and her father
followed.

Led by the yells of the ci-devant captain, the old huntsman
followed the party who were leading him to execution. The spot
chosen was the open space before the market cross, the whipping-post
at the south side of which was to serve as a gibbet. The
prisoner lay like a log of wood upon the ground, moaning piteously.
Several of the soldiers had lit torches, and their red glare cast an
unnatural light upon the scene. Crowds of citizens, attracted by
the different rumours of an attempt upon the life of the queen,
worn some asserted to be murdered, others only wounded, were
pressing eagerly behind the circle which the military formed.
Martin being recognised, was admitted within its precincts.

Poor devil ! it will soon be over," said the jolly host of the
Crown to his buxom daughter, who, in the kindliness of her
nature, was sobbing on his arm ; here comes the finisher of the
law. When Jack feels a man's pulse it is all over with him; his
touch is worse than a physician's."

The executioner, who resided in the gaol, having been suddenly
sent for, arrived with unaltered hose and bare-headed. Those
who had been sent to summon him had given him scant time for
preparation. Although accustomed to his dreadful office, there
was something in the idea of an execution by torchlight which
shook even his iron nerves, and he trembled as he approached the
place of execution. As soon as the crowd beheld him, they made
way for him with that superstitious terror and disgust which the
lower classes feel in England for the executioner. They would
have scoffed had they been told that, in some countries, his office
was considered noble.

Which is the man ? " he demanded of the officer who commanded
the party.

The captain pointed at the prisoner with his sword. No sooner

did the hangman behold the features of the criminal, than the

'■ calm expression of his countenance changed to one of ferocious

\ joy. A low chuckle broke, like a serpent's hiss, through his grisly

| beard, and his nerves instantly became like his heart — of iron.

"This gallant! ho! ho! ho! the popinjay who spurned me
three days since in the public street, because, in passing him, my
cloak - --red against his doublet! Ha! ha! ha! It was, it

seems, the more honest garment of the two ! I told him then it
was bad quarrelling with the executioner. Did I not ? " he added,
touching him contemptuously with his foot, for, like most of his
fearful trade, he had a profound contempt for those who died
under their hands like curs.

Thy duty, man," said Jerningham, sternly ; " it is no part of
thine office to torture him."

The ruffian glared ferociously upon the speaker, and cursed him
in his heart. Prudence prevented his tongue from hazarding a
reply. Hastily mounting a ladder, which one of the soldiers had
procured from the neighbouring church, he ascended with alacrity
to the post, on the summit of which there was an iron ring, and
grinned with suppressed delight as he fixed the cord, straightening
it after he had made the noose to see that it was right; he then
threw himself off the ladder, and slid to the ground by it.

Ay, ay, it's strong enough," observed one of the citizens; " Jack
knows his business."

At any rate," replied another, " those he works for never complain
of his lack of skill ; and that is more than can be said of all
trades, neighbour."

The executioner now approached his victim, whom two soldiers
were holding up between them, for the wretch had fainted. "With
the professional coolness of some surgeon about to perform an
operation, he turned down his doublet, and with an infernal gusto
felt his throat, as if to ascertain the exact spot where the knot
should be tied. The spectators shuddered. Giving the men a
signal to bear the prostrate wretch after him, he advanced to the
ladder, and began slowly to ascend the steps, the soldiers following.

There goes a fatted calf to the shambles ! " cried a butcher,
who was gazing with eager eyes upon the scene, and almost fancied
he should like to be the executioner of the law's stern sentence;
for he, too, had frequently been insulted on the city causeway by
the pinioned bully, who had long been the terror of the quiet
citizens of Exeter.

Just as they began to ascend the ladder with him, Peter Hurl
recovered his consciousness ; life returned at the very instant he
was about to lose it in so fearful a manner. With a loud yell he
sprang from the arms of the soldiers, and began to ran round the
circle at the foot of the gibbet, like some baited beast seeking an
opening to escape from his tormentors. Everywhere the rank was
perfect — not a gap for terror to escape through. Shrieking frantically
for mercy, he was chased round and round the ring by the
hangman and the guard till they once more held him in their iron
grasp.

Despatch him ! " exclaimed Jerningham, disgusted with the
scene.

It's murder ! " shrieked Peter; "I have not been tried ! Mercy !"

The executioner quickly made fast one end of a cord to the rope
which bound the prisoner's arms, and he was once more forced
towards the fatal spot. The hangman ascended first, dragging his
victim up the ladder after him. The cries of the wretched man
became terrific, and many, overcome by horror of the scene, fled
the spot. As soon as he reached a convenient distance, he applied
the fatal noose to the prisoner's neck, and hastily descended the
steps, first loosening the cord by which he had drawn him up. He
and Peter Hurl stood on the same staith; for a moment they
glanced horribly into each others' faces — madness was in the
countenance of one, hate and scornful triumph gleamed in the
features of the other.

Now, then, for our ride, bully captain," whispered the minister
of the law in his ear, as he took the pinioned ruffian in his arms,
and wound his legs round his. " Satan gives the signal — hell
laughs at the race. Now, then — once, twice, and away."

A moment — a prayer — a "

At the word " away," the men below removed the ladder, and
hangman and victim were left swinging in the air. The former no
sooner felt the shock of the fall than he glided down the heaving
body, and, like a snake, dropped upon the ground. All turned
with horror from his glance; there seemed pollution in his touch
pestilence in his breath. With a triumphant grin he threw
himself upon the steps of the market cross, and remained watching
the body.

Bad as old Martin knew Peter Hurl to have been, and indignant
as he felt at the outrage attempted upon the honour of his young
mistress, he could not contemplate the villain's death unmoved.
The summary justice of the queen displeased his English notions
of propriety, and he hated the sight of an execution. Not that the
huntsman doubted the utility of hanging — he was not advanced in
his philosophy far enough for that. Hanging he held to be a part
either of the Constitution or Gospel — he was not quite certain which ;
but he had an Englishman's love of fair-play, and considered that
even Peter ought to have had a trial. As he turned the angle of a
street which led to the rampart, a dark shadow flitted in the grey
moonlight before him. Martin started ; he felt assured that it was
Barford.

That devil here," he muttered to himself. " He, then, has been
at the bottom of the plot. Let him look out this time. I am on
the scent. Had he as many lives as a polecat, I should be too
much for him at last."

Barford, unconscious that he was watched, glided along till he
reached the rampart, which he began to ascend rapidly. He was
pale as death. A cold perspiration stood upon his brow, and his
limbs shook under him as he moved along. He had just witnessed
the execution of the instrument of his crime, and trembled to

think how he might have implicated him in his confession. To
remain in Exeter under such circumstances was to court certain
death. With his usual foresight, he had at an early hour in the
evening fixed a coiled rope to one of the jutting stones which
formed the battlement. He knew that, in the event of a discovery,
it might serve him as a last resource ; and the event justified his
forethought.

Crime is generally timid. The echo of his own tread startled
him. He took each buttress as he stalked along for a soldier upon
duty ; nor drew breath till he reached the spot where the means
of escape were concealed. With nervous anxiety he sought them
in the long grass, nor drew his breath freely till he found them.

"Again I have escaped," he murmured, as he threw the coil over
the wall. " There is a spell in hatred ; it keeps action and energy
together. I cannot die and leave the debt unpaid."

Can't you ? " thought Martin to himself, as he drew a sharp
knife from his pocket ; " we shall see."

The huntsman had followed him — dogged him at every turn;
now falling flat upon the ground, now crouching, like a hare in his
form, to escape observation. Crawling upon his hands and knees
like a dog, he had contrived to ensconce himself behind a heavy
gun-carriage, which the soldiers had overturned upon the ramparts
the previous day.

It will hold," said Barford, pulling the cord to try its
strength.

Will it ? " whispered Martin, grasping his knife.

Shaking his fist, with a glance of disappointed hate towards the
city, the unhappy man, whose evil passions were his bane, let
himself over the battlement, and began carefully to let himself
down. The height of the wall was about seventy feet, and its base
was washed by a broad, stagnant moat, half-filled up with rushes,
reeds, and rank vegetation.

Barford had descended about ten feet from the summit of the
wall, when the cord began to vibrate fearfully ; he looked up, and
saw his old antagonist in the act of cutting it. For a moment
his senses swam, and his strength became paralysed. He gasped
to catch his breath.

I told you," said the huntsman, " we should meet again.
Remember Keinton."

The cord broke, and splash — a heavy fall into the moat. Martin
shuddered; it was the first time that in cold blood he had, as he
believed, ever taken life, and the deed appalled him.

God forgive me," sighed the old man, "if I have done wrong;
but he was the bitter enemy of those who are dearest to me — the
persecutor of my young lady — the false witness against her father,
whose bread I ate these forty years. No," he added, after a
moment's pause, " I have not done wrong ; he was a villain who

deserved death even more than Peter Hurl. His crime was
necessity, perhaps; Barford's, choice."

Casting a second glance over the parapet to see if he could
distinguish anything of the body, but without success, the speaker
turned upon his way. His heart would not have been so well at
ease had he seen Bars ord, a few minutes after, crawl like a wounded
reptile from out the moat. His limbs were fearfully bruised from
the fall, and one arm broken; but still he lived, to work more evil
to those whom Martin would have died to serve.

Five days after the skirmish at Chalgrove, Sir Herbert of Stan-field
was summoned to the tent of Prince Rupert. On his arrival
he found his serene highness seated at a table, amusing himself by
sketching the plan of a battle.

"Welcome," said the gallant commander of the Cavaliers;
doubtless, Sir Herbert, you are surprised at our summons ; it is to
confide an important trust in your hands. No thanks," he added;
could we bestow it better, we should do so."

The young soldier only bowed to the compliment, and waited to
receive his orders.

You are acquainted, I believe, with the country between here
and London ? "

Well, your highness."

And know, on the heath below Henley, a spot called the Maid's
Oak ? "

Where tradition says a promise made is sure to be avenged if
broken; and hence the superstitious peasantry and youthful lovers
seek the spot to make their bargains or plight their mutual faith."

A singular tradition," observed Rupert, smiling, " and the place
oddly chosen. No matter, it is too late to alter it now. Pshaw !
I am growing full of fancies as a dreaming girl. I marked your
skill the other day with the cross-bow; you must take yours with
you."

Cross-bow ! " exclaimed the young man, colouring; " I trust
your highness does not intend to employ me in any unsightly
service ? "

The duty would have been mine, young man, had circumstances
permitted it; as it is, I am to remain a prisoner."

A prisoner ? "

At least till you return. Take your horse, mount, and ride to
the tree; at the latest be there an hour before sunset; hide in the
thick clustering branches; stir not a bough, but let your heart be
firm and your hand sure."

And what am I to do there ? " demanded the astonished
Cavalier.

Wait the arrival of two horsemen, who will approach at the
same moment. One will wear a white pluma ; take no heed of
him; but with your bow cover the person of the other; if he offers

treachery, if you see but a doubtful movement of his hand,
lire."

It is a strange duty your highness has charged me with; but I
accept it ; for in saying that, had circumstances permitted it, it
would have been yours, you assure me it is a post of honour."

One that your ancestors would have been proud of," said the
prince, rising, and laying his hand familiarly upon his shoulder,
since it is to watch over the safety of your king."

The king ! " repeated Herbert, with surprise.

Is to meet Cromwell," whispered Rupert, " in that lonely spot.
Much as I hate the Roundhead, I do not think he would tempt
Heaven by sacrilegious violence upon an anointed head. Still
precaution will not be thrown away. I am to remain as hostage
for his safe return. You see," he added, with a bitter smile, " the
churl values himself already highly, when a king's son must bethe
pledge of the rebel's safety."

From these words Herbert judged that an interview had been
arranged between Charles and the great leader of the Independents,
and that the precaution taken by Rupert of placing someone on
whom he could rely in the tree was merely meant to secure the
personal safety of the king should Cromwell be tempted to offer
treachery — an act which, with all his violence and ambition, he was
incapable of. The life of the Royal Stuart was sacred in his eyes,
unless he could take it legally.

I understand your highness," said the young man, " and will
to the life defend my master's person. When must I set
forth ? "

Within an hour. The interview takes place at sunset. Before
the appointed time you must be there. I need not add, this is a
confidence to be received with a discretion equal to the importance
of the interests it affects."

With this understanding the speakers parted; the prince to yield
himself up to the party of Ironsides appointed to guard him by
Cromwell, as a hostage during his absence, and Herbert to his tent
to prepare for his solitary post.

Hastily donning his simple hunting suit of dark-green, and
retaining only his sword and cross-bow, our hero started forth on
foot to the appointed place of rendezvous.

As he paced his lonely way, sweet fancies and sad thoughts came
over him; his heart turned to the recollection of his young bride,
so newly-wedded, and so cruelly parted from him by the stern
necessity of war. A thousand times had he prayed that the
unnatural strife might cease, and now there seemed a hope that
his wishes would be realised. Everything depended on the
approaching interview. Could Charles persuade, bribe, or dazzle
the iron-minded man he was about to meet, England would sheathe
the sword, hearths yet desolated by the brand of civil war might

be spared, and he might enjoy with his Mary that delicious repose
of love his soul so thirsted for.

The place of rendezvous was a half-inclosed heath, in the centre
of which stood an aged oak, whose giant arms, clad in umbrageous
beauty, cast a broad shadow on the earth. Tradition assigned to
this patriarch of the forest an antiquity mounting to the time of
the Druids. It had been named the Maiden's Oak, from a tale still
cherished by the rustics, that a noble Saxon girl had listened under
its shelter to the vows of one of the Norman conquerors of her
country, and, like many others, been abandoned and betrayed.
Heartbroken she visited the spot so fatal to her happiness. This
time she came to die, and prayed, in the bitterness of her last hour,
that Heaven would, in pity for her sufferings and shame, visit with
its vengeance the violation of an oath made under the tree which
had been the witness of her false lover's perjuries and her shame.
Her request had received a curious fulfilment ; for the Norman
knight, while hunting, had been overtaken by a storm, and was
struck dead by lightning while under the very tree, whither he
had ridden for shelter. Tradition, more constant than her lover,
has handed the legend down to our days.

This must be the spot," said Herbert, as he arrived beneath the
oak; "and, by my knighthood, a better could not have been chosen
for the purpose. There's not a bush within gun-shot would yield
a hiding-place even for a sparrow — nothing but the high dank grass
and a distant clump of rushes rising from the banks of a stagnant
pool."

Casting an experienced eye around to make himself perfectly
acquainted with the locality, he slung his bow behind him, and
hastily mounted the gnarled trunk, and ensconced himself comfortably
in the middle of the branches. The spot he had chosen
was most convenient, since one withered branch which curled
downwards afforded him an excellent resting-place for his weapon,
which he could turn in any direction ; whilst the rest so screened
him that it was all but impossible he should be seen.

Just as the sun was setting in that gold and purple glory which,
like the robe of empire, veils his couch, Herbert perceived a solitary
horseman directing his way towards his hiding-place. The rays
of the parting luminary falling behind him cast a long shadow,
which preceded him and gave an unearthly, phantom-like appearance
to his massive outline. It was Cromwell. The young knight
gazed on him as he directed its heavy Flemish charger towards the
Maiden's Oak with a feeling of mingled awe and dislike. To him
he appeared a man who had been destined by fate to perform some
great but not beneficent action. There was solitude in his path,
for his orbit contained none like him; indeed, it is remarkable that
Providence, when, for its special purpose, it stamps its divinity upon
a genius, or its wrath upon a tyrant, creates for them a course in

which, they move unapproachable and alone ; they have few sympathies
but with their destiny, and pursue their career impelled by
a force which is not theirs, but lent them for some end — that once
performed, the fire becomes extinct, and nought remains of the
volcano but its ashes.

The moment he arrived beneath the tree he dismounted from
his steed, removed the bit from its mouth, and left the animal to
nibble the luxuriant grass at its pleasure. The sagacious creature
was so well trained that its master knew it would not wander far
from his side, or that with a signal he could recall it. He next
looked seemingly up into the tree. The watcher felt his heartfelt,
but he resolutely held his breath, fearing lest it should betray him.
Satisfied apparently with the scrutiny, Cromwell turned aside, and
after pacing to and fro for a few moments, fell upon his knees to
pray.

It was a fearful thing to listen to the outpourings of that heart
which, from childhood, had brooded over dreams which fate sometimes
makes realities. In his agony, his doubt of himself, he called
upon the Lord with the passionate but familiar expressions of his
sect to strengthen him: — to pluck the lust of power promis breast;
to blind him to the glare of ambition, and continue him in the
path He had marked out. "I am but a potsherd in Thy hand;
burn me not in Thy wrath. I am but a rush before Thy breath;
let it bend, not break me. Satan is busy with my carnal nature;
let not the enemy prevail."

So intent had Cromwell been in his prayer, and Herbert in
watching him, that they perceived not the approach of a second
horseman till the tramp of his steed's hoofs startled them both.
In an instant the Puritan started from his supplicating posture, and
was again the soldier and the statesman. The young knight
remembered his duty, and with his cross-bow covered the person
of the stern-Republican.

No sooner had Charles dismounted than he approached the tree
where Cromwell was waiting him. For a few moments they gazed
in silence on each other. Their glance expressed that quiet fascination
with which men look on destiny. The king was the first to
speak :

Thy name is Cromwell ? "

The Puritan bowed his head in the affirmative.

Thy bearing argues but little for our meeting," continued the
speaker, hurt, perhaps, that the calm soldier of the people should
presume to stand uncovered in his presence. " It is not thus that
kings and subjects meet."

Here is neither king nor subject," replied the man of destiny,
but two human creatures met to discuss the interests of a nation
whose welfare depends upon their action. Be indeed a king,
govern thy people in charity and justice, and such homage as one

being without sin may render to another, Cromwell will pay to
thee."

"What hast thou to complain of ? " demanded Charles.

More than the meanest of thy subjects, nothing ; but with them,
everything. Where are the ancient liberties of England ? — crushed
beneath a sceptre whose rule has been of iron; where the wealth
with which God blessed the land ? — fretted away in useless wars in
idle pageants, whose end is vanity ; where the pure Church, which
sprang from Rome's corruptions like an innocent babe from a
polluted mother ? — thou hast decked it with the garment of
episcopal corruption, rendering its leprosy more hideous by its
harshness ; thou hast wrung from labour its hard earnings at thy
caprice. Men will no longer bear these things ; humanity, like a
strong child, has outgrown its swathing clothes, and must walk.
It depends but on thee whether its steps should be in advance or
backwards."

"The rights I hold," replied the king, "I inherited with my
sceptre."

Cromwell paused and eyed him for a moment with the same
sarcastic expression which all had marked upon his countenance
the day Charles entered the House to arrest the refractory members.

It trembles loosely in your hand since you violated the
sanctuary of England's laws and set royal prerogative above a
nation's rights. I knoAv the lust of empire ; it is luring to the
sight, but bitter to the taste."

"Thou hast felt it, Cromwell," observed the king, bitterly.

I have felt it, and conquered it. Now listen to the terms which
may again seat thee, not on a pageant throne, but on one reared in
the hearts of thy people. Confirm their just, inalienable rights;
reform the Church ; correct the luxurious habits of thy Court ; and
though the scars thy acts have left may never be effaced, the pain
they caused may be forgiven."

During this extraordinary interview, the speakers had continued
to pace up and down beneath the tree where the sentinel sat
watching them. Gradually they moved out of hearing. Herbert,
to judge from their animated gestures, imagined that words raged
high. It was a contest between fancied right and real strength.
Gradually they cooled down, and seemed to come to a better
understanding.

"Keep thy pledge," he heard the king observe, as they again
approached within hearing, "and it shall meet with its reward.
What our Royal favour can do for thee, it shall."

The worm cannot be raised beyond its nature unless the Creator
wills it," replied the Puritan, with a proud humility; " more than
the eagle thou canst not elevate me."

To a place in the councils of thy sovereign, and a memory in
the hearts of thy country."

Herbert failed to catch what followed ; and for nearly half-an-hour
their words fell upon his strained ear like distant murmuring
broken by the night breeze. The compact, whatever its nature,
was apparently accepted. He thought he heard words which
sounded like an earldom and the garter — perchance his ear
deceived him — or that he caught but the echo of a vainly proffered
bribe. Just as the speakers were about to mount their horses to
separate, the young man observed a curious, undulating movement
in the grass, like that occasioned by a serpent as it winds its uncoiled
length along when pursuing its prey. He was startled, and kept
his eye upon it, and his hand upon his cross-bow. Suddenly a
man, who had been creeping towards the place of rendezvous, rose
from the ground, and with a long knife in his hand, rushed towards
Cromwell, as he was bowing his head in token of adieu. The neck,
just where the back-piece of the armour joins the helmet, was
exposed. Another instant, and how different a page might have
been written in the book of England's history ! One pressure
from the forefinger of Herbert's hand, and the bolt parted; the iron
shaft struck the assassin directly in the forehead, and he fell, his
guilty purpose unaccomplished, just as his hand was raised to
strike.

Charles was the most surprised; he was as ignorant as his companion
of the presence of a concealed witness of their conversation,
or the approach of the intended assassin. The precaution had been
entirely his nephew's — the attempted crime the deed of Henrietta,
to whom he had confided the secret of his intrigue with the leader
of the forces of the Parliament.

Is this thy faith, king ? " demanded Cromwell, scornfully,
pointing at the same time to the writhing body of the ruffian.
"Fare thee well; I have had enough of kingly promises and kingly
faith."

Stay," exclaimed Charles, proudly — " we part not thus. Look
on me. Are these the features of an assassin ? Lay thy finger on
my pulse — see if it beats not calmly as thine own. I would not
for the brightest jewel in my crown this thing had happened."

After gazing on the speaker for a few seconds, his companion
merely bowed his head in token that he believed him, and immediately
advanced towards the oak from whence alone the shot could
have proceeded.

Descend," he exclaimed. " Whoever you are, I, at least, owe
thee thanks."

Herbert remained silent.

Pause not," continued the speaker. " One blast upon my bugle,
and you are surrounded."

Descend," said the king. " Be you Royalist or rebel, I will not
leave the spot till this seeming treachery is explained. It concerns
my honour and good faith."

The concealed knight no longer hesitated, but at once descended
from the tree. Cromwell saw, despite the simplicity of his dress,
at a single glance, that he was no common person.

Thy name ? " he demanded.

I will answer for him," replied Charles. " A knight attached
to our service — Herbert of Cranfield. How came you," he added,
sternly, " thus concealed, a spy upon your king ? "

I had orders," replied the young man, " to place myself there."

From whom ? "

Your majesty's nephew, Prince Rupert."

And with what intent ? " inquired Cromwell.

To watch over the safety of his majesty, should violence have
been offered. I felt it to be equally my duty to defend your life;
and when I saw yon carrion hand raised, like a felon's, against it,
I fired".

Humph ! " muttered Cromwell ; " perchance thou hast but
played the honest fool, and marred thy fortune. Farewell," he
added, turning to his majesty. "Whatever the intentions of thy
nephew in this matter, I acquit thee."

Holds our compact good ? "

It does," replied the Puritan, after a pause. " Keep but thy
faith, I will not fail in mine."

With these words the speaker mounted his horse and rode off.

This is most unfortunate," observed the king, who felt humbled
that anyone should have witnessed what he considered as a degradation
— his interview with his rebellious subject ; " poor Rupert
meant it for the best, but he has strangely embarrassed me. You
heard our conversation ? "

I did — in part."

And what guarantee have I for your caution ? "

"A life devoted to your service," said the young man, proudly;
if that is not sufficient, I have no other, sire, to offer."

It is sufficient," replied the unhappy monarch, kindly; " come,
let us hasten towards the camp ; my absence has been, ere this,
remarked. God send my nephew safely back ! Strange times," he
added, " when the king of merry England is compelled to wander
like some knight-errant in quest of such adventures. But first
rifle the doublet of yon miscreant, whose crime has cast a doubt
upon a prince's loyalty, and might have stained his honour to the
world, for who henceforth would have trusted to his faith ? "

All," exclaimed Herbert, " who know his princely nature, or
have read his loyal heart ; even yon Puritan, cold and suspicious
as he is, did not dare to doubt it."

Perhaps," said the prince; "time will show."

The young man proceeded to obey the speaker's command. Ina
small pocket in the inner lining of the ruffian's doublet he found
a paper. As he drew it forth he saw in one corner of it the name



of Henrietta; he neither wished nor sought to read its contents.
With averted eyes he handed it to the king, who, after glancing at
the writing, rode moodily towards the camp, in an opposite direction
to that which the leader of the forces of the Parliament had
taken.

When Cromwell arrived at the spot where he had left Prince
Rupert a hostage for his safe return, he found the young man
chatting gaily with his officers, most of whom had witnessed his
brilliant courage in the field, and eagerly embraced the opportunity
of becoming acquainted with so gallant an adversary.

You are returned," he said, starting from his seat as the Puritan
approached.

The man he addressed eyed him fixedly; but there was a frank,
manly bearing in his countenance which convinced even his
suspicious nature that he had no participation in the attempt which
had just been made. At one moment he suspected Fairfax, who
had never forgiven the being superseded by him in his command
of the army. Both suspicions were equally unjust.

Such," he thought, as he motioned to the Royal hostage to
follow him, " are not the men who descend to murder."

For more than a quarter of an hour they paced silently side by
side till they had passed the last sentinel of the army of the people.
Not till then did the prince's companion break silence.

"You are now," he said, "beyond our lines."

Happy to hear it, Master Cromwell ; for, to deal frankly with
you, your camp is not the place I breathe most freely in. 'Sdeath,
that a courageous fellow like you should waste your life and
energies with such a crew of mummers. Pretty officers who say
grace before they venture to crack a bottle of wine, who stomach
treason better than a jest, give texts for passwords, and march to
psalm-tunes."

Blaspheme not," replied his companion; " men fight none the
worse for fearing the Lord."

Your Ironsides to wit."

Cromwell smiled; he felt proud of the praise of his favourite
regiment from so gallant an enemy as Prince Rupert. Suddenly
turning round, he fixed his grey eye upon him, and said :

My life has been attempted."

By one of your own preaching curs, then. Dearest thou suspect
me ? Nay, man, speak the word boldly; I hate those who hide
their thoughts as misers do their treasure. Like gold, they tarnish
when concealed."

I accuse no one."

"Accuse whom thou wilt," continued Rupert, passionately, "so

thou exonerate me. Cromwell," he added, " we are alone, equally

armed, man to man, with God to judge between us. Prince though

I am, thou art sufficient gentleman to measure swords with me.

vol in. L 2

If in thy mind a doubt or thought lurk unworthy of my honour'
draw, and let Heaven decide between us."

The Puritan felt strongly tempted, but he restrained himself.
In the heat of battle he would have sought the occasion gladly; butin
cold blood, Snd convinced of the speaker's innocence, a sense of
justice restrained him.

"That I answer not thy foolish challenge be the proof," he
replied, "that I acquit thee in this matter. Had a doubt but
lurked, despite thy royal lineage, I would have shot thee as an
example to all traitors. And now farewell ! Yonder stands thy
horse. The pass-word, shouldst thou meet any of our men, is
'Zion' ; — in an hour," he added, "it will be changed. Time will
decide whether for the future we meet as friends or enemies."

Cur ! " muttered the Cavalier to himself, as he rode off ; " had
he but one drop of the blood he boasts of in his plebeian veins, he
had answered to my challenge. I hate your mathematicians who
fight only on calculation."

Cromwell hastened back to his own men. On arriving at his
tent four of his most favoured officers were summoned to attend
him, and an hour afterwards they left the camp, closely disguised
and well armed, in different directions. "What their purpose was,
time perchance may tell.

Chapter X.

It is not to be supposed that in a civil war like that which
desolated England many errors and treacheries were not committed
on either side. Independent of the affair of Chalgrove, the
Parliament experienced other and more fatal reverses.

About the middle of the day following Charles's interview with
the leader of the forces of the Parliament, Cromwell was pacing
the green sward before his tent in an abstracted mood. His
faithful Ironsides, who knew his humour, had received strict
orders to keep off all intruders, and suffer no one to approach the
spot except the officers whom he had despatched the previous night
upon a secret expedition, the purpose of which was known only
to himself. The sentinel had been instructed to admit them at
any hour.

Will they succeed ? " he murmured. " I would read the
Stuart's heart. The secret of his faith concerns his destiny and
mine. I am weary of this strife — this battling of the spirit — this
striving with the flesh. The mind, worn in the struggle, sighs fora
pillow to repose upon. "Charles proffers England's liberties
achieved, the Church of Christ freed from its bondage, and for my
services an earldom and the garter. .tis not the prize," he added,

which flitted before me in my dreams ; but that was stained with
blood. Keep me from blood. Tempt me not, Lord, to my
undoing ! "

During his meditation the perspiration fell in heavy drops from
his forehead, and his giant frame trembled with the violence of its
struggle. Like most great men, he was conscious of the weak side
of his character; and the contest between ambition and duty had
been a severe one.

"Here comes Ireton," he exclaimed, as a horseman appeared upon
the gentle rise of the hill, spurring his foaming steed towards the
camp. "He hath succeeded. I knew he would, for there is the
cross of the true bloodhound in him. It is his nature to hunt his
prey to death. How cruelly he spurs the noble horse! I read
success in his impatience. God ! how fierce a thing wiseman when,
armed with passion, he goeth to destroy ! "

Although the time was brief before Ireton reached the tent, the
speaker testified his impatience by a tremulous motion of the lip,
which invariably quivered when he had any important point to
debate within himself, or was kept upon the tenter-hooks of
expectation. On came the messenger, swifter than the lazy wind,
which he outstripped in his passage, and in a few moments stood
beside his leader.

Give me the letters," said Cromwell, extending his hand to
receive them.

How dost thou know I have obtained them ? " demanded
Ireton.

Pshaw ! thickest thou I am a dullard not to read it in thine
eye — thy gesture ? Failure comes not back with fiery impatience
to him who sent him. Thy very air, thy blood-dyed gear, thy
panting steed — all speak the certainty of thy success."

Thou art a curious observer," replied the Puritan, with a grim
smile; "greatness wonderfully sharpens the perception. Since
thou hast been lieutenant-general of the Parliament, thy wit hath
kept pace with thy preferment. Dost think a higher step would
have the same effect on me ? "

These words were spoken as he alighted from his horse, and
threw the reins to one of the soldiers who was loitering near the
tent. The man took the jaded animal, and patting its panting
sides, led it off towards the rider's quarters, which were at a
distant station in the camp.

Trifler," exclaimed Cromwell, impatiently " give me the
letters."

Without another word Ireton thrust his hand into his bosom,
and drew from it a small packet, tied with a silk braid, and sealed
at the ends with the Royal arms. It was stained with blood. A
chill fell upon his leader's heart as he received it ; for, with all his
ambition and desire to distinguish himself, he was superstitious.

Perhaps he had imbibed it in his youth in the dark woods of
Hinchinbrook, where his moody spirit loved, even when a boy, to
ponder upon that misty future which veils our destiny, or muse
over the spectre-like visions of the past. Both speculations leave
their impressions through after-life.

Leave," he said, as he directed his steps towards his tent.

Will you not break the seal ? "

Presently."

May I not know the contents of this dearly-won letter ? "
demanded the messenger.

A stern " No ! " was the only rejoinder ; and his leader, whose
communing was generally but with his own heart, turned upon his
heel and left him.

Scant thanks," he muttered, looking after him, " for risking
life and limb to pleasure him. Oliver is one of those who move in
darkness, fearful lest their shadow should grow hand-and-glove
with their counsel, and so betray it. He hath the ambition to
wish greatness, yet shrinks at the road which leads to it. No
matter," he added ; " those who pin their fortunes on his sleeve
seldom find their hopes a dream. There are specks upon the sun,
and weakness even in the iron nature of Cromwell."

With these words he left the ground, and hastened to his quarters
to remove the stains of travel and of crime.

Blood ! " said the man of destiny, as he paced the narrow
limits of his tent, his eye fixed upon the packet which he desired
yet feared to read ; " some heart, perchance full of aspiring hopes
and headlong courage, hath drained its life-current in defending it.
For Charles or me 'tis a fearful omen — time conceals in its dark
womb for which."

With a resolute hand he broke the seal, and tore open the
envelope ; its contents were a letter to Henrietta from Charles,
and one to the governor of Exeter. Like a child toying with his
own impatience, he read the letter to the governor first. It merely
contained military instructions for the defence of the place.

I could have anticipated these," he exclaimed, throwing the
paper contemptuously from him. " Poor king, whose generalship
consists in the tyro's tactics and the prestige of a name. The
world is awakened from its sleep, and will no longer be governed
by right divine and its tinsel pageants. Now then," he added,
for his real self, his thoughts, his soul's communing. There is
some use, at least, in love, if men knew how to use it wisely. It
gives Wisdom the key to Folly's heart."

With these words the speaker unfolded the letter to the queen.
His brow contracted, and scorn lit his deep-set eye as he perused
the fatal lines. They ran thus :

My Dearest Wife, — I and the traitor Cromwell have met at
last. I knew the value of the service I bade for, and was no niggard

of my promises. Can I but lull the Parliament into security touching
our intentions till the secret treaty is signed with France, I may
throw off the mask ; but our Royal brother, or rather his minister
(Richelieu) is tardy. Like the mercenaries who fight within our
ranks, he waits to see which party bids the highest. I shall,
however, entrap the red-capped charlatan at last. The price which
bought the foul-mouthed rebel was an earldom, and the garter
promised. His coronet he shall receive from the hangman's
hands, and the garter be placed around his neck. Use all your
influence in France to expedite matters. Impress upon the mind
of Louis that the blow aimed is not at Charles alone, but at European
monarchy. The rebels in his city of Rochelle, and the traitors who
have driven us from our ancient capital, are of the same viper's,
nest. Let us set our heels upon their necks and crush them both.
I send this by a sure hand. Keep its counsels to thy heart ; for it
is of importance to the future that our good faith should not be
suspected in this matter. Newcastle is about to advance on Hull.
The Hothams are ours."

What followed was the mere outpouring of a weak but affectionate
heart, filled with regrets at the pains of absence from the being it
loved and trusted. It was signed, " Thy loving husband, Charles."

Cromwell's chest heaved like a man who gradually feels himself
relieved of a gnawing pain. In the promise he had made the king
of using his influence to promote a reconciliation, he had been
influenced solely by the desire of securing peace to his unhappy
country. The cry of her sufferings had weighed against the voice
of his ambition — the struggle had been a severe one, but principle
and reason had triumphed. "When he found how completely the
writer would have deceived him, the bitter scorn with which he
treated him, his stern nature rejoiced ; he felt that he was free,
free to realise the dream ambition painted him, free to grasp at
power, urge on the events of time, and write his name on that
imperishable page which will only fade when earth, like a burning
garment, shall shrivel up, consumed on the altar of eternity.

This," he exclaimed, "is the faith of the descendant of a long
line of kings. Hath the unction which anointed him but reached
his brow, and poured no drop of grace within his heart ? The fool
hath spoken his own most righteous doom. The execution ! A
Royal head may bow beneath its stroke before the iron neck of
Cromwell. Like a child, I would have struggled with the destiny
the Lord hath marked. His mercy hath reproved me. As for this
woman, I'll drive the harlot from the land. I'll make the very
name of kings a mockery to men ; show them the rags of which
their idols were made. Let me not fall into the boaster's pit," he
added, with a grim smile. " My strength is in His hands whose
wisdom made alike the emmet and the lion."

For some time the speaker continued his hurried walk, occasionally

bursting into a fearful laugh when he reflected on the
folly of the king, and then frowning in ominous hate when he
remembered the bitter scorn with which he had been treated ; for,
like most sullen men, he was relentless where he felt he had been
injured.

The fool ! " he muttered. " The crowned puppet sports with
Death, and hopes to vanquish him. Does he think the brittle
metal of his sceptre harder than steel, or that every heart bears the
base courtier's stamp — take men for boys, that he can hoodwink
them ? "

Suddenly he remembered the words in the letter : "Newcastle
advances upon Hull ; the Hothams are ours " ; and the danger to
the cause immediately struck him. Charles once master of the
North of England, Parliament would become discouraged, treat
with the king almost on any terms, and his aspiring hopes, as well
as the cause for which he laboured, crushed.

Fool ! " he exclaimed, " to stand dreaming here when danger
calls for energy and action ! Newcastle in Hull ! — that danger
must be prevented, though a battle should be fought, and the
greedy earth drink the best blood in our army. Blood ! " he
repeated, mournfully. " Alas ! for the perversity of the times, that
man cannot take one step in the onward path of liberty but blood
must mark it."

In an instant Cromwell was a changed man, — from the sullen,
moody dreamer, he became the active soldier, fit to wrestle with
difficulty wherever it opposed him. His courage was like tempered
steel : it only showed its qualities when tried. He was one of the
very few who never boasted their achievements. A council was
hastily summoned, and their leader laid before the officers who
composed it, not the letter to the queen — he was far too politic for
that — but a simple statement of the intended treachery of the
governor of the threatened town. As his word was known to be
truth, none either ventured to inquire from whence he had received
his strange intelligence or question its fidelity.

How to throw succour into the beleaguered place]? " demanded
one.

The fleet is off the Essex coast," observed another.

In fact, consternation prevailed; all could point out the difficulties
of relieving the town, but not one suggest a remedy. When the
confusion had somewhat ceased, all eyes were turned to the general
to listen to his words. They felt that the means of safety must
come from him. With the conscious pride of genius, when it
resolves bold things, he replied to their looks rather than to their
words.

But one course remains. . The Hothams are traitors to the cause
of the people ; arrest them."

Arrest them ! " repeated Ireton, with a sneer ; " and who is to

undertake the part of Archibald Bell-thereat ? Not I, for one, unless
at the head of an army."

The rest of the officers looked of the same opinion, but were
silent. Cromwell eyed them with a glance of cold disdain. It
was one of those occasions on which resolution and genius might
dare everything and succeed, while timidity and mediocrity were
sure to fail.

I never yet proposed to any man," he said, " the risk I dared
not undertake myself. Action with me has ever followed counsel.
I'll arrest them."

You ! " they exclaimed with astonishment ; " you — the
lieutenant-general of the Parliament ! "

And judge and execute them before the very gates of Hull, if
I find them faithless."

You mean to give the Royal army battle, then ? "

Not till my return."

This was uttered with that cold precision which indicates a mind
maturely resolved upon its purpose.

The speaker was one of those whose counsels and decisions were
secrets to all but his own heart till the moment of action had
arrived; and then, like most energetic spirits, to will was to perform.
Extreme daring will generally be found the primal element of
success.

You will require assistance," observed Ireton.

I have found it."

Your plan must be well considered."

It is considered ; and now, gentlemen, farewell. In the
morning I will leave my instructions. Ten days must elapse
before the truce expires. Let no consideration induce you to risk
an engagement ere it expires. For that period," he added, with a
grim smile, " I can trust even the Stuart's faith. Ireton, summon
the gentlemen whose names are written on this paper to attend
me. In an hour they will find me in my tent. Till we meet again,
let your hearts be the only neighbours to your purpose. Farewell."

Without waiting to see the effect his words had produced upon
the assembly, Cromwell walked quietly from the scene of deliberation
towards his quarters. Although the task he had undertaken
was one of considerable danger as well as difficulty, he seemed in
unusual spirits. Perhaps the excitement of the risk was pleasing
to his saturnine nature and sent the blood more freely through his
sluggish veins. That same night the greater number or his favourite
regiment, the Ironsides, headed by officers in whom he could confide,
left the camp in small parties variously disguised. In the troop
which the general marched with, the Master of Wilton was the
commander. Since the loss of Mary he had become more and
more devoted to the cause and faith in which he had been educated.
His patriotism was of that pure devotion to principle which hallows

the altar on which it is offered. His zeal and unambitious bearing
had long procured him the approval of the man whose genius, with
intuitive perception, read and weighed the characters of all who
came in contact with it.

Eight days after the departure of the adventurous party, Cromwell,
with two or three attendants, presented himself before the gates of
Hull, which still held out ostensibly for the Parliament, although
the garrison had been tampered with, and the fidelity of many of
the officers, as well as the governor, been shaken. From the
slenderness of his escort, no suspicion was entertained, and he was
instantly admitted to the presence of the elder Gotham, who
received him with that over-acted ease and cordiality which mark
a mind conscious of deceit.

The first day was spent in reviewing the troops, inspecting the
fortifications, and laying down plans of defence, which one of the
party, at least, was doomed never to see realised. Had the governor
been possessed of even common observation, he would have
shuddered at the portentous frown which darkened the brow of
his visitor as he marked that the cannon had been removed from
the northern gate, and the post intrusted to the guard of a newly-raised
regiment of adventurers — men who were the very cutpurses
of the time — deserters, gaol-sweepings, and broken-down half-gentry
; fellows who had so repeatedly sold both faith and honour,
that the wonder was they should still find bidders in the market
to cheapen them.

This post is but badly supplied with artillery," observed the,
general, willing to hear what reason the governor could offer for so
culpable a negligence ; for even the pieces which remained were
badly mounted on broken carriages and rusty axles. " Should
Newcastle suddenly arrive, he would make light work of such
defences as these."

The governor glanced at his son, who attended them, and a deep
blush mantled the cheeks of both. The younger, whose treachery
was as much influenced by love for the daughter of a Royalist as
his father's by a more base and mercenary motive, first found
courage to reply.

Slight fear of that," he exclaimed, with a forced laugh ; " the
earl is still at Newark."

When heard you that ? " demanded Cromwell, fixing his eye
upon him.

But yesterday. I reconnoitred his outposts myself."

Good ! " said the Puritan, with a smile, as if in approval of his
zeal in the good cause ; " but you must not be too venturesome.
Hull cannot afford to lose one of its defenders."

This was uttered in so gracious a tone that both the governor and
his son were deceived. The latter internally chuckled to think
how completely he had hoodwinked the general by his apparent

enthusiasm in the cause he had betrayed. In order to put the
officers of the disorderly regiment on their guard, he and his son
took occasion, while Cromwell was carefully scanning the distant
ground, to step into the old tower, which served as quarters for the
guard, and whisper a word or two. A sedate, grey-haired old man,
who had been following the party along the battlements, seized the
moment to step up to the stern Puritan and whisper in his ear :

You are betrayed."

Speak on," said the general, without turning his head. " By
whom ? "

Gotham and his son ; they have sold Hull to the enemy ;
Newcastle will be here tomorrow."

How learnt you this ? "

A trooper, who was in the escort of the young man, confessed
it to my daughter, in the hope of prevailing on her to quit the gates
and take refuge in the citadel. He is her lover."

His name ? "

Dick of the Belt ; he is on guard behind the bastion yonder."

And who are you ? " demanded Cromwell, in the same unmoved
tone, without once removing his gaze from the ground he was
mentally surveying, lest any one should suspect that they were
conversing.

The keeper of the gates. The keys, by the governor's orders,
have been taken from me. If you value your life, if you value
the safeguard of the town, be on your guard."

The speaker bowed, and pursued his walk, just as the Hothams
left the tower, accompanied by the treacherous officers, whom they
had hurriedly put upon their guard, urging them to show something
like subordination and discipline when before the lieutenant-general
of the Parliament.

This caged tiger," observed one, " will be as welcome as a prize
to Newcastle as the town itself."

Is he to be thrown into the bargain ? " demanded another.
Double the price ! "

Hush ! " whispered the younger Gotham ; " he is here — salute."

As the iron soldier reached the front of the tower which served
as guard-house, his eye passed rapidly over the dissipated, rakish
set of officers drawn up to receive him. Had no other evidence
been wanting, the very act of entrusting the northern gate — the
most important post in the town — to such men, whilst he had a
body of the best soldiers of the people under his orders, would
have convinced Cromwell of Gotham's guilt He marked the
saucy, leering expression of some of the traitors as they eyed their
fancied dupe. His smiles were in his sleeve ; and then it was
that Oliver's smile was the most dangerous.

Come, gentlemen, " he exclaimed, " as Newcastle is at Newark,
we have time to survey the ground before the gates. Will you,

captain, take the elevation of the hill which rises at the corner of
the wood."

The party bowed to conceal his ignorance. Had the general
addressed him in the language of Memphis or Babylon, he could
not have been more puzzled.

Ha ! — a soldier-like fellow," observed Cromwell, as he passed
the bastion where Dick of the Belt was about being relieved of
his guard. " Thy name ? "

Dick of the Belt," replied the man.

A profane name, since it speaks of carnal qualities. I dare
warrant me thou won it, now, at wrestling."

The fellow smiled. He was, in truth, known in the West Riding
of Yorkshire as the best wrestler, leaper, and player of loggat ; he was
called Dick of the Belt from the number of years he had retained
it against all competitors.

Mount, and follow," added the general, " if thou art not too
tired of thy guard."

Tired, general ! " exclaimed the fellow, gratified by the notice
of a man of whom he had heard so much — a man whose name was
in the mouth of every soldier ; " it must have been a hard day's
march that would make me feel tired if you condescended to
require my services."

Cromwell smiled ; there was a tone of sincerity in the speaker's
manner which convinced him he was honest. The poor fellow,
who blushed at his boldness in so freely addressing his superior,
little imagined that the enthusiasm of those few words had saved
his life.

Call out the officers," said Cromwell, addressing the governor.

For what purpose ? " respectfully demanded the functionary.

To have them for our reconnoitre," said the Puritan.

Had you not, general, better first return to the Government
House — there to arrange the party ? " demanded the governor.

No."

Shall I draft a party from this post ? "

No ; the officers will be sufficient."

By which gate shall we make our sortie ? " demanded the
younger Gotham.

The north. Mount."

This was settled so laconically, but at the same time with such
an apparent absence of all suspicion, that both father and son were
equally deceived. 'Tis true his presence in the town was a cause
of embarrassment to them, for they knew the influence which his
name possessed amongst the soldiers as well as citizens. Had they
not feared a tumult, they in all probability would have arrested
him ; it was determined, however, otherwise — to disembarrass
themselves of him.

Cromwell rode swiftly over the ground which intervened between

the gates and the wood, in whose outskirts the troops which accompanied
him were concealed. "With rapidity, although he had never
viewed the country before — at least, not in a military point — he
marked its capabilities and defects, and pointed them out to
Gotham with the earnestness of a man whose trust in his faith
was unbroken ; the motley group of officers which followed in
their wake winking and pulling faces behind his back.

An hour's sharp riding brought them into a recess of the wood,
which at that period extended more than two-thirds the distance
between Hull and York. Cromwell galloped, closely attended by
the two traitors. As he approached the spot where Nature seemed
to have spread her enamelled carpet, as if to invite her children to
a banquet, he gradually quickened his pace, so that he arrived
with his victims in the centre of the open space alone. Not a
creature was visible ; the only evidence of the handicraft of man
were two tall posts which had been lately planted in the ground.
The elder Gotham eyed them inquisitively.

Some merry-making going on ! " he exclaimed.

"Ay," replied his stern conductor; "such merriment as goodmen
feel when Heaven puts forth its arm to strike the wicked and
confound their treason ! Such merriment as when the sword of
Justice smites the culprit ! Such merriment as when Death apes
the jester and mocks at human cunning ! "

What mean you ? " demanded both the Hothams, their conscience
suddenly alarmed at the portentous words which fell, cold
as the sound of an iron bell, or like the reply of some oracle of old,
from the stern lips of the speaker.

Thank Heaven," thought the younger to himself, as he heard
the trampling of a body of men ; " here come our companions."

He felt that there was danger in the man — that every moment
of his life was like tempting fate — and he determined to get rid of
him. Suddenly drawing his sword, he rushed upon Cromwell
with the intention of cutting him down, uttering a loud cry of
God save King Charles ! " Had the future Protector been unprepared,
the attempt must have been successful ; but his quick glance
caught the action, and, with an alacrity which few, who had never
seen him in battle, would have judged him capable of, his hand
was upon his weapon.

The sword of the Lord of Hosts ! " he exclaimed, enthusiastically.
" In the name of the Commons of England, I arrest you
both as traitors to the people."

The Hothams were petrified at the daring of that solitary man,
who, alone and unsupported, as they imagined, ventured to
pronounce the word "arrest" in their presence. The sound of
the horsemen was now heard at the very angle of the road.

Such an order," said the governor, " is more easily given than
obeyed. You are not now general at the head of your Ironsides."

Not yet," said Cromwell, calmly.

Nor e'er shall be again. "What ho ! " shouted the son. " Betrayed
! Gotham to the rescue ! God save the king ! "

At this instant a body of three hundred men burst in various
directions from the different pathways and underwood around
them — cold, determined-looking fellows, whose countenances bore
the trace of that serious, deep, conviction which strong religious
impression seldom fails to give. To the astonished traitors it
seemed as if the earth, sown by the dragon's teeth, teemed with
avengers, and the man whom they had so lately threatened
the Cadmus who had sown them. The shouts which they
heard at a distance, together with the firing, told them their escort,
their last hope, had been surprised and cut off. They were so,
almost to a man.

Lost ! " muttered the governor to himself. " The game in my
hand, too ! "

Lost," repeated the son, "just as love promised to crown my
years of hope."

The Puritans gradually narrowed the circle they had formed
round them, leaving the culprits alone within its centre. Not a
word was spoken, but every eye was fixed with loathing on their
treachery. They read their condemnation in each countenance,
for they were stern and calm as the sacrificing priests of old who
ages before had offered on Woden's altar, probably on that very
spot, the libation of human blood.

The leader of the Ironsides was the first to speak.

Not for your attempt upon the life of the general of the
Parliament — for that I scorn and pardon — but for your perjury to
the people, your intended betrayal of the town intrusted to the
keeping of your honour, to Newcastle and the king, do I pronounce
your doom."

Doom ! " repeated the elder ; " and who gave thee the right to
judge or sentence ? Hypocrite ! in arms in the cause of liberty
injustice, at the very moment thou tramples them under foot ! "

Disarm them," replied the general, sternly ; " and break the
swords they have dishonoured."

Despite their desperate resistance, the order was instantly
complied with. There was something terrible in the perfect
silence in which the command was obeyed ; those who executed it
seemed more like machines than men, moving at the will of human
intelligence.

Bind them."

In an instant they were pinioned.

Now, then, your office, knaves," added Cromwell, turning to
half-a-dozen stout, hardened men who were standing without the
line formed by the soldiers. Do it briefly. Man has the right to
judge, but none to torture."

When the traitors perceived that their doom was to be the cord,
and not, as they anticipated, a soldier's death, rage and shame
mastered even fear ; despair took possession of their souls ; in the
agony and struggle of that fearful moment they reproached and
reviled each other.

Such," thought their judge, " is the fellowship of treason."

Then followed one of those painful scenes which sometimes
occur when crime and' justice settle their final account on earth,
when the inexorable creditor arms itself with human strength to
exact the penalty long due by brute force. The victims were
dragged to the fatal tree, and the degrading cords affixed round
their necks. Then followed a despairing yell — then a convulsive
heaving of two human frames — a few drops of blood oozed from
the nostrils and pale lips — a low gurgling noise was distinctly
heard amid the silence of the spectators — a last struggle, and all
was over.

Cromwell, who had regarded the scene with the air of a man
who was gathering courage for one horror by forcing himself to
witness another, exclaimed, in a loud, deep tone :

Thus perish all traitors to the people."

The prompt and stern " Amen " which burst from the lips of the
Ironsides convinced him that they at least would be ready to
uphold the decision of the Parliament should it exact a yet more
costly sacrifice to the offended majesty of England's liberties and
rights. A grim smile passed over his hard features ; it was the
pledge of the fulfilment of that dream whose awful phantasma
haunted his nightly couch ; and, during the excitement of the
eventful day on which the execution had taken place, conscience
frequently whispered to him that his zeal had not been all disinterested
— that the gold of his patriotism was not without the
alloy of ambition — that interest had ascended the judgment-seat,
where passionless reason alone should find a place. The awful
words, "Judge not, that ye be not judged," more than once presented
themselves to his memory.

Leave yon carrion," he said to the executioners, " as a warning
to all traitors, and a memorial of a people's justice. To horse ! "

The men fell in at the word of command with silent alacrity.

Where to ? " demanded the Master of Wilton, who had been a
pained spectator of the scene.

To Hull," replied the general ; " our task, as yet, is but half-accomplished."


Confident in the success of the arrangement he had made with
the treacherous governor of Hull, whose jealousy of the younger
Fairfax, and mercenary character, had been the cause of his fall,
Newcastle had that very day despatched Sir Herbert of Cranfield,
who had joined him at York, under orders from the king to conduct
his regiment towards the threatened town, so as to form an sidvanse

post for the Royal army, which was the very next day to follow.
Apprehending no surprise, the Royalists marched gaily in, forming
an irregular but numerous body of men, whose courage was greater
than their discipline. Serving as simple volunteers in the ranks
were many young men of excellent family, who from a chivalrous
feeling had left their ancient homes, looked in the quiet wood or
by the sleepy lake, in search of excitement and adventure. They
felt that they were the descendants of the same bold brood which,
on the fields of Cressy and Poictiers, had rendered the Saxon name
immortal. Many still guarded in their ancestral halls the trophies
of those days of fame, and panted to add fresh ones to the list.

From the direction in which the rival parties were advancing, it
was impossible that they should not meet. Death, that day, like a
half-gorged vulture, was impatient for more victims. The blood
he had tasted had maddened his appetite, not satisfied it. Ere
nightfall he had revelled to repletion. ■

Merrily and musically rang the shouts of the Royalists as they
perceived the Ironsides advancing from the wood. Like revellers
who had stumbled on an unexpected banquet, surprise gave them
appetite for the occasion. Their line was formed with a rapidity
which surprised even themselves, and before the Puritans could
follow their example a dashing charge was made which laid many
a grim disciple of Calvin low.

Cromwell, who was riding behind in moody meditation, followed
by the Master of Wilton and his principal officers, started in his
saddle at the sound. Like a watch-dog wakened from a dream by
some intruder's step, or an Indian when he falls on the trail of an
enemy, his eyes dilated with surprise. He was pining for excitement
— something to break the sombre chain, the leaden spell
which enthralled him, and, like a slow five*, consumed the lighter
particles of blood. Clapping spurs to his horse, he dashed over the
uneven ground, broke through underwood, cleared with a desperate
energy every impediment, and rode up to his regiment at the very
moment it was yielding to the impetuosity of the Royalists' charge.

A low murmur of content broke from the wavering Ironsides as
they saw their leader amongst them.

Steady ! Close your ranks ! Burton's troop, wheel round to
the hill and take them in the flank. Remember," he added,
with increased energy, " Chalgrove and Hampden ! Steel to the
throat ! Charge ! "

The charge which followed was executed with such impetuosity
that both lines were broken, yet neither gave way. These were
divided into separate groups of combatants, where every man
fought as if the honour of the day depended on his sword — the
Puritans with that silent determination which distinguished all
their actions, the Royalists with the lively energy of men in whom
the impulse and pleasure of life were strong. Here might be seen

,M

some gallant boy, expiring in a pool of his own blood, pressing to
his lips the gore-dyed scarf, a mother's or a sister's gift, perhaps
the token of some dearer lore,, or with a last cry for his king upon
his tongue. Next, a grey-headed soldier of the people breathing
his last prayer on the battle-field, calmly recommending his soul
to God, or breathing a last wish for his country's freedom, the
holiest prayer which liberty's martyr can breathe to that Being
who, when He created man, pronounced him free, gifted him with
intelligence to understand the boon, and courage to maintain it.

During the encounter Herbert and Wilton had twice met, and,
as if by a mutual impulse, turned aside. The life of each was
sacred in the eyes of the other. Not even patriotism could break
the bond of friendship, or the memory of those early days of
boyish confidence, ere a cloud had passed between them to shade
the sunshine of their lives.

The contest in that part of the field where Wilton was engaged
had ceased. Casting his glance around, he saw his friend gallantly
defending himself against the desperate attack of three or four
Puritans, who had singled him out for his determined courage as
an enemy worthy of their swords. Cromwell, too, was calmly
looking on, for the Royalists were by this time everywhere defeated,
the greater number slain, the rest flying in all directions. A fierce,
a savage joy took possession of the young Republican's heart as he
felt that in a few moments the bar between him and Mary would
be removed ; that she would be free — free to love again — free towed
another. His heart beat wildly at the thought, and in the
despair of his soul he gazed with eager eyes upon the combat.
Twice did the eye of Herbert meet his, as if in mute appeal. He
either felt it not or resisted it. Some demon had suggested the
ungenerous thought, and the nobler impulse of his nature slept.
His friend was wounded, almost beaten from his horse, when the
recollection of Mary, like some guardian angel, flashed upon his
mind. Her agony, despair, and desolation, her soft eyes drowned
in tears, or reproachfully turned towards him, seemed to haunt
him in the air. The spell was broken ; with a cry such as an
unchained spirit gives when released from bondage, he dashed
madly to the rescue, and caught the descending blow aimed at
Herbert's unarmed head upon his sword, and the next instant was
fighting desperately on his side.

Fly ! " he exclaimed, as the astonishment of the assailants at
the unexpected attack caused them to drop their swords. "A
moment, and it will be too late."

Never ! " said Herbert.

For Mary's sake, away ! "

That word again caused the natural love of life to beat strongly.
It was love, home, happiness, heaven, which called upon him to
sacrifice the natural impulse of his heart. Scarcely knowing what
VOL. ill. M 2

he did, he put spurs to his jaded steed, turned his head from the
battle-scene, and left the field.

No sooner did Wilton perceive that he was safe than he dropped
kis sword, and stood unarmed before his enraged assailants.

Harm him not," said Cromwell, in a hoarse voice, as he rode
to the spot ; " the traitor merits not a soldier's death. Secure him."

A party of Ironsides, who now rode up, assisted the rest to
secure him.

What means this treachery ? " demanded their general.

He was my friend," calmly answered Wilton, " childhood's
companion, and youth's confidant. He is the husband of one whose
image is graved so deeply here, that not e'en your bullets can efface
it. But why," he added, " why speak of feelings like these to one
whose heart God hath made like steel, that no soft touch of human
love may make an impression on it ? "

A rival too ! " exclaimed Cromwell, whom some recollection
seemed to move.

I saw not that. I only saw my friend."

Release him," said the general to the soldiers. " Master of
Wilton, resume your command."

The men hesitated, as if they did not rightly comprehend the
unexpected order.

Must I speak twice ? " demanded their leaders haughtily.
Retire to your ranks."

Their hands fell from the person of Wilton, and they retreated
like chidden children. So complete was the speaker's power over
their enthusiastic natures, that they obeyed him with the blind
confidence as well as the love of infants.

The late captive would have expressed his gratitude as he rode
from the field, accompanied by the general ; but Cromwell, who
read and perfectly understood him, checked him.

No words, Wilton," he calmly said. " Truth needs nor pardon
nor excuse. I have but acted justly. We are all subject to the laws
of our organisation. One metal bends more easily than another.
Gold is more ductile than iron. But remember this," he added,
whatever his enemies may think, Cromwell's nature is not all
of clay."

CHAPTER XI.

IMMEDIATELY after the skirmish, in which the Royalists were
defeated, Cromwell sent for Dick of the Belt, whose blunt alacrity,
when he commanded him to attend him, had pleased him. The
soldier saw at once that the intended treachery of the governor and
his son had been revealed to Cromwell, and he naturally suspected
that the old warder, whose pretty daughter he had intrusted with
the secret, had told it to her father, and her father to the general

of the Parliament. We have seen that he was not far wrong in his
suspicion.

Thou hast seen," said the leader of the Ironsides, " how I treat
those who trifle with honour as a toy, and sell their faith for the
vile dross which slayer more surely than the sword. Answer
me ; but remember, I question not twice with those who once
deceive me."

I am no liar, general, though it should send me to the gibbet."

Thou knowest the treason of Sir John Hothani and his son ? "

I did," said the fellow, boldly.

Since when ? "

Since yesterday, when I rode in the escort with the young
man, and witnessed his interview with the Earl of Newcastle halfway
between here and York."

Why not reveal it ? "

To whom ? — the officers of my regiment, who were every one
in the plot, or to the timid citizens, men who value their gear far
more than honour, and who would not strike a blow to save either
the king or Parliament ? Besides, the conduct of the governor
had displeased them ; he has squeezed their money-bags — given
short promises for long credit. They were more likely to welcome
any change which released them from him than to oppose it."

The brow of the questioner brightened ; there was honesty as
well as simplicity in the straightforward answers of the young
man, which pleased him ; for, like most great minds, he was a strict
lover of truth.

Where is Green's regiment ? " he demanded.

Removed to the lower ward to be out of the way. It was since
their change that the guns were dismounted on the walls. They
are true men, and would have opposed it."

Their post, then, is the southern gate ? "

Just so, general."

"Wilt thou bear a letter faithfully from me to their commander
? " said Cromwell, fixing his searching eye upon his
countenance, as if to read his very thought. " Thy risk shall bring
preferment to thee ; whilst treachery, on the contrary, will send
thee to the gibbet ; for I am one of those who forget not my debts
to friends or enemies."

Try me," exclaimed the young man, elated with the conti denes-reposed
in him. " I may lose my life in defending it ; in which
case you must take the will for the deed, and acquit me of my
promise ; but till I have lost it, neither force nor fraud shall win
it from me."

The Puritan, who was a judge of character, was satisfied. He
made no further threat or promise ; but hastily tearing a leaf from
the field-book which an orderly officer presented him, he traced a
laconic note to the commander of the only regiment in the town on

which he knew he could rely, and gave it, without sealing it, into
the hands of Dick of the Belt.

Speed thee on thy way. If thou succeeded in thy mission, the
gates will he open at our approach ; if not, we must force them as
we may. Once in the town, ask any boon in my power to bestow,
and it is thine."

May I touch your hand to that, general ? " demanded the young
man, his countenance beaming with hopeful satisfaction, for the
promise suggested the realisation of the long-cherished wish of his
heart.

The word of Cromwell requires no pledge to hallow it or oath
to bind it. It is sacred," said the general. " Natheless, if it please
thee to touch my hand, it is extended to thee."

Dick of the Belt seized the hand presented to him and pressed it
to his lips with more devotion than he had done a king's. It was
a nobler hand, the hand of genius — one which had grasped the
sword to put down tyranny — to raise a suffering people up to
liberty — to urge humanity in its onward course, and break the iron
yoke which checked its progress. Few who have grasped a sceptre
could boast the same.

Heedless as the soldier of his country was of flattery, even his
morbid nature was gratified at the deep devotion of the rough,
uncultivated soldier. He was pleased at his empire over his mind.
It was a foretaste of that royalty of soul which God, for an especial
purpose, had gifted him with. Happy had it been for Cromwell
had he never aspired to a more earthly rule.

He is honest," muttered the general to himself, as the messenger
dashed off, mounted on one of the fallen Royalists' steeds, towards
the town — for his own had been slain in the conflict. " I'll stake
my life upon his faith ; and yet," he added, " he has been reared
in adversity's stern school, known no gentle nurture or bookman's
lore ; to him the historian's page hath presented no bright example,
the poet's verse no spirit-stirring strain. While England has sons
like thee, tyranny may strive in vain. Her sceptre will break
against such hearts. Their nerves are iron. I'll trust the ploughshare
against gold — its glitter will not blind them."

By this time several of the foraging parties had returned to the
ground laden with provisions, and the men spread their rude
repast upon the earth, yet red with the stains of victory. The
horses were picketed beside them. Ere they commenced their
repast, a prayer was offered up of thanksgiving for the battle won,
and gratitude to Him whose hand they believed had thus far
successfully conducted them.

Their leader stood aloof, a calm but not uninterested spectator
of the scene. He felt proud of the daring act he had achieved.
By it he had rescued Hull from the danger which threatened it
defeated the treachery of the Hothams and the hopes of the king'

towards whom, since the discovery of his letter to Henrietta Maria,
he entertained a feeling of hostility mixed with scorn. Accustomed
even as he was to fields of carnage, a sadness clouded his heart
when his eyes glanced upon the bodies of the slain. Many of his
faithful Ironsides had fallen — most of them were from his loved
neighbourhood ; some had been his companions in childhood, in
those happy careless hours when the heart, like virgin tablets,
is open to any inscription. Tis strange how soon joy and sorrow
scribble it o'er, till not one spot is left free from the stylus' trace,
and that not all the tears of after-life can blot or wash out the
writing.

"And what is life ? " he thought. " Earth is instinct with it ;
the very waters teem with it ; the very air serves but to give it
breath ; and yet, trace it through its thousand channels, in all its
forms and shades, we find it dust at last. Ask History for those
the student worships, and the stern monitor presents a handful of
ashes. Ask Time to show their labours, and it points to ruins.
But not so with mind," he added, his deep-set eye suddenly
kindling with enthusiasm ; " its labours, like itself, are immortal.
The man who clothes a soil creates a country ; but he who frees it
immortalises it — his works live in the liberties he has sustained,
the rights he has won — he and his deeds are one."

The rude bivouac was ended, and the trumpet, calling to horse,
startled the dreamer from his reverie. In his usual stern, brief
tone, he gave directions to the men to remount, rode through the
ranks, smiling on the wounded, and silently remarking the number
of the dead — not a difficult task for their leader, who knew every
man in his regiment by name, and loved them as brothers who
have shared the dangers of the battle-field alone can love.

Many have fallen," whispered one of the officers as he passed.

Cromwell turned and eyed the speaker. It was the Master of
Wilton.

True," said Cromwell, raising his beaver ; " they have paid
their debt to God and to their country — their task is done : ours
is to labour in the cause for which they fell, and justify their
memory by success. Happy shall we be if our end prove like
theirs."

A low murmur of approbation broke from the men on hearing
the words of their leader ; it was not often that he gave vent to his
feelings, and the impression was the more profound.

Fall in ! " he exclaimed, resuming his usual brief, soldier-like
manner. " Forwards ! "

In what direction ? " demanded the senior captain of the
Ironsides.

To Hull," was the laconic reply ; and in an instant the still,
statue-like mass was set in motion. So noiseless was their march
that they seemed like a band of shadows passing over the field.

Not a sound was heard except the fall of the horses' hoofs upon
the deeply indented sward. The moment the Ironsides approached
within sight of Hull their leader saw that Dick of the Belt had
faithfully performed his mission ; for the gates were standing
wide to receive them, and the flag which Cromwell had directed
the commander of the trustworthy regiment to display floated on
the watch-tower. The absence of Sir John Gotham and his son,
who were the life of the conspiracy, so disheartened the traitors,
that but little resistance was made ; many of the parties most
implicated fled to Newcastle for protection, for they trembled at
braving the inflexible justice of a man whose firm hand had seized
and executed the governor within a short distance of his own
gates.

Cromwell was perfectly satisfied with the example he had made ;
he had no natural, or rather unnatural, taste for blood ; with him
the taking of human life was never done except as a necessity ; he
would have stepped aside to avoid treading on a worm, yet he
lived to place his foot upon the neck of a king, because it was a
stepping-stone to the greatness which destiny, he believed, had
called him to — and let us add, because it advanced the cause from
which the liberties and rights of the nation were inseparable.

Well ? " he demanded, as Dick of the Belt presented himself
before him, as soon as the general had regulated the new government
of the town, passed the garrison in review, and addressed the
citizens and magistrates, whom the presence of the terrible Ironsides
and the rumoured fall of Sir John Gotham had made
wonderfully patriotic ; " thy request ? "

That I may marry the daughter of the warder of the northern
gate."

Humph ! What saith the maiden ? "

She will not refuse her consent," replied the young man,
blushing deeply.

And her father ? "

I am poor — and old men-ove gold."

I cannot force the father to consent to thy marriage with his
child ; but I can remove one barrier at least between thee and thy
hopes. Wilt be a sergeant in my regiment of Ironsides, or have a
commission in the town guard of Hull ? "

The poor fellow hesitated. Pride, honour, the thirst of distinction,
all prompted him to accept the first ; while love, with its gentle
whisperings, was urging him to choose the latter.

The town guard," said the old warder in his ear, "an' thou
hopes to call Rebecca wife. I have often said I should like to
give her to the officer of the burgher guard."

Rebecca was standing near ; she could only look upon her lover
and smile ; her smile was more eloquent than her father's words
few could have resisted it.

I have made my choice, general," he exclaimed : " the post in
the town guard."

A slight shade of dissatisfaction passed over the features of
Cromwell. He had been pleased with the speaker, and wished to
attach him to his service ; he was now daily advancing towards
the position which he had so long struggled for, a crisis was at
hand, and he wished to strengthen himself by faithful hearts and
firm hands around him.

Perhaps thou hast chosen wisely for thy happiness," he sighed,
; but not for thy future fortune."

The commission was made out, and Dick of the Belt on the
following morning wedded to the object of his affections, with the
consent of the old warder, and a dowry from the general.

The news of the execution of the Hothams was a sad surprise to
Charles, and a blow to the Royal cause. It is not in these chronicles
our intention to write a history of the civil wars, but merely select
such pictures as may illustrate the spirit of the times. Immediately
after the return of the lieutenant-general of the Parliament,
hostilities were resumed with fluctuating success. Sometimes
victory, with a courtier's smile, seemed to salute the Royal banner,
then frowned upon it, coquetting with the people. Things continued
in this state till the eventful battle of Naseby.

On Saturday, the 11th of June, Fairfax and Cromwell put themselves
in march from Willing to Naseby, intending to bring the
Royalists to a decisive battle, and to prevent, if possible, their
retreat upon Leicester, in the event of their refusing the combat.
At five o'clock the generals halted close to Naseby, and shortly
after several bodies of the king's horse showed themselves on the
top of the hill in battle array. Presently columns of infantry
marched into position, and Fairfax, being convinced that the
Royalists meant to bide the brunt, drew up and faced them on the
brow of a gentle slope, placing a forlorn hope of about three
hundred carbineers within a bow-shot lower down. The right
wing, consisting of six regiments of horse, was commanded by
Cromwell ; the left wing, composed of five regiments of horse, was
at Cromwell's suggestion committed to the gallant Ireton, who was
for that purpose made commissary-general of horse. Fairfax and
Sheppon commanded the main body. In the king's army, Prince
Rupert, with his brother Prince Maurice, led the right wing, and
Sir Armature Language the left. Charles in person directed the
centre. The respective armies were pretty equal in numbers, there
not being a difference of five hundred men between them. The
field-word of the Royalists was "God and Queen Mary"; that of
the Parliamentarians, " God and our strength." As in the preceding
battles, fortune seemed at first to favour Charles, the left wing of
the enemy being shattered by the furious onslaught of Prince
Rupert. Ireton was wounded in the face with a halberd, in the

thigh with a pike ; taken prisoner, and kept by the Royalists during
the greater part of the battle.

Rupert, however, with his usual rashness, spurred on too far.
The scattered foot rallied in his rear round their guns, and the
broken horse of the left wing closed and rode up to support the
centre and the right, so that when the prince returned from the
outskirts of the town of Naseby, and summoned the train of
artillery, offering them quarter, they refused, and kept him at bay,
till he perceived that the success of the rest of the king's army was
not equal to his. He then flew to succour his friends, but help
came too late. Cromwell's charge, though gallantly met by Sir
Armature Language, was brilliant and decisive. After firing a
close charge, and standing-to at the sword's point, the left wing of
the Royalists in turn was broken and driven from the field. While
this was going on, there was a very fierce encounter between the
main body of both armies. With the exception of Fairfax's
regiment of foot, nearly all the division gave way, and went off in
disorder, falling behind the reserves. But their officers called
them ; and, ashamed of their defeat and cowardice, they charged
their enemy with such fury that Charles's foot were in turn driven
back, and at last put into a disorderly retreat. In this stern conflict
the popular, unflinching Sheppon was dangerously wounded by a
shot in the side. Fairfax considerately requested him to quit the
field ; but the old soldier replied that he would not stir so long as a
man would stand, and remained till the battle was ended. Cromwell,
now returning victorious, kept the king's horse in check, and
prevented their coming to the rescue of the foot in the centre.
Fairfax, leading up the masses of his infantry, pressed the whole
of Charles's main body, and put them all into disorder except one
tertian, which stood like a rock, though twice desperately charged,
and refused to move an inch.

The king had now nothing left in the field entire except some
regiments of horse; these had gradually increased, and Charles
himself put them in good order. Rupert, too, returning from his
fatal success, now joined them ; but their spirit was gone. They
stood amid their enemies hopeless and inactive, till Cromwell, at
the head of his gallant Ironsides, charged them.

One charge more, gentlemen," exclaimed Charles, " and we
recover the day."

No enthusiastic cheer replied to the voice of the despairing
monarch. He could not prevail over them to stand the shock of
horse, foot, and artillery, all of which were brought against them,
but broke and gave way. Charles left behind him on the field five
thousand prisoners, besides an immense number of officers, and
many of his household servants. There were also taken twelve
brass pieces of ordnance, eight thousand stand of arms, and all the
rich booty which the Royalists had plundered at Leicester.

What do ye here ? " exclaimed Cromwell, in a harsh tone, to a
party of his own men who were pillaging one of the king's baggage-waggons.
" Is this a moment to think of worldly gear, when the
great cause for which we fight is yet union ? You, Master of
Wilton," he added, in a tone of mortified surprise, "descending
to such camp-followers' work ! "

It is the cabinet with the private correspondence of the king,"
replied several of the men.

Guard it as your lives," said their leader, eagerly, for he saw in
an instant the importance of the prize ; " and forgive me, Wilton,
that I judged so rashly. But I have found so much of the mere
clay in human nature that I doubted even thy spirit."

'• 'Tis ours ! " exclaimed a soldier, as he raised the sealed cabinet,
which was adorned with the Royal cipher in several places. " Now,
then, for a peep into the secrets of the State."

A dozen arms were raised to break open the receptacle of
Charles's most important secrets, when the voice of their leader
arrested them.

Touch it not, on your lives ! " he hastily exclaimed ; " but let
it be removed instantly from the field."

To the quarters of the general ? " demanded Wilton.

No, to mine. I intrust it to your care," he added. "Repay
the Ironsides ; guard it as you would your leader's life and your
own honour."

A stern assent was given, and the men, raising their burden, bore
it carefully from the field, nor relaxed their march till it was far
beyond the danger of being recaptured.

Now, then, for the chase ! " exclaimed Cromwell, giving rein
to his steed. "Death hunts to-day, and his game is a royal one.
On for the cause ! on for the half-won liberties of England !
on that your children's children may bless the field of Naseby ! "

The unhappy king fled from the field, pursued by the relentless
speaker and his dashing Ironsides. Had not the delay occasioned by
*he discovery of his cabinet taken place, he must have been captured
; as it was, they thundered in his rear till night compelled
them to draw from their pursuit, which their leader was at last
forced to assent to.

I had rather it had been upon the field," he murmured, as he
rode apart from the men ; " the sword sooner than the axe. But
man may not escape his destiny. Vainly have I struggled against
mine. Turn which way I will, a fiery hand still drives me back to
the path I would avoid. I'll strive no more. Charles and I must
each fulfil his destiny."

The battle of Naseby was attended with most important results.
The strength of the Royalists, as a party, was entirely broken,
although Charles again appeared at the head of an army, and finally
under the guarantee of Montreuil, the French ambassador, placed

himself in the hands of the Scotch, who had pledged themselves to
receive him as their sovereign, without violence to his conscience or
his honour — to protect him and his party to their uttermost ; he, in
his turn, undertaking to respect their privileges and rights.
Neither party was sincere. The Scotch wanted the king to take
the oath to the Covenant ; on which condition, probably, they
would have conducted him to Edinburgh, as he wished, and even
protected him against the designs of the English Independents,
who eagerly sought to bring him to trial and death.

The delivery of the king to his enemies was not the act of a clique,
but the deliberate resolve of a nation. On the 16th of January the
Scottish Parliament gave their full assent to the delivery of the
royal person into the hands of the commissioners appointed by
Parliament to receive him. Two hundred thousand pounds was
counted down at York to the Scottish receiver, and the unhappy
Charles delivered to the Earl of Pembroke and six commissioners
appointed by Parliament.

The betrayed prince was in his tent on the fatal day which consigned
him to his enemies, the leaders of the Scottish army had
been too deeply bribed not to join in the treachery of their Government.
Charles knew well what was going on, and, with that placid
courage which even his enemies admired, fully prepared himself
to meet it. But if betrayed by his native subjects as a nation,
there were still individuals amongst them who blushed for the
treachery of their country. At the last moment the • Earls of
Lauderdale and Traquair solicited an audience, and were received
for the last time by their monarch.

Well, my lords," said the king, " hath Iscariot received his
silver ? Has the price of blood been paid ? Have your countrymen,
forgetful of their ancient loyalty and honour, sold the blood
of their native prince to the hereditary enemies of their liberties
and race ? "

The peers were silent.

Your fathers and mine," added the speaker " shed their blood on
many a border field together, Traquair ? Does not the very crest
you bear, the gift of William the Lion, make you blush at your
vile treason to his descendants ? But I degrade myself by reproaching
men whose conscience gold can gild, and who barter honour
like a thing of vilest merchandise."

Be just, sire," exclaimed Lauderdale; " Traquair and myself have
both raised our voices in vain against an act which brings the brand
of treachery upon the honour of poor old Scotland. Still, all is not
lost. There are in the army men who revolt at the degrading compact.
One way yet remains to save you.

Name it," said the king, disdainfully.

Pledge your princely word to establish the Presbyterian Church
in England, take the Oath and Covenant, and Lauderdale and myself

undertake, despite all opposition, to convey you safe to Berwick,
from whence your Majesty can pass to Scotland, where a nation
will receive you with open arms, and rise in its ancient strength,
to defend your just rights and vindicate the honour of your
crown."

Never," said the king, bitterly. " My confidence in man is
broken. I will not for a false hope sacrifice my conscience. I
am an unworthy son of the Church of England. I have lived in its
practice and am prepared to die in its faith."
Sire ! "

The king would be alone," interrupted Charles with a dignity
rendered more imposing by misfortune. " Farewell, my lords ; we
part, but not unkindly. Whatever the treachery of your countrymen,
we acquit you. Leave me. We should pair you by detaining
you here to witness a scene which may cause you shame for the
land you have so loved."

Touched by the gentleness of his manner, and the sad yet firm
tone in which the king dismissed them, they bent the knee for the
last time, and kissed the Royal hand extended to them — then
silently left the tent.

Well has it been said of our native princes," observed Traquair,
that if they live not royally, they at least die nobly. Poor king ! "
Poor Scotland ! " interrupted his companion ; " this day's work
sets the seal upon her dishonour. It is sold to England. Too
much of the blood of our princes has been sacrificed to it already."
After the departure of his visitors, Charles remained for sometime
pacing the limited precincts of his tent. Despite his confidence
in the inviolability of the Royal dignity, he could not
conceal from himself that his position was one of extreme danger ;
still he trusted that, by a few concessions, which probably would
have been sufficient at first, he might succeed in averting the storm
from his devoted head.

Pshaw ! " he muttered, " it is but a fever which has reached its
crisis ; their madness can go no further ; I must win by policy what
I have lost by treason."

The deluded man indulged in dreams of again ascending that
throne whose footsteps were already covered by the shadow of the
giant form destined to replace him. While he was thus musing,
the corner of one of the back curtains of the tent was slowly raised,
and the spare figure of Martin, the old huntsman, intruded itself.
Who art thou ? " demanded Charles.

"A loyal subject," replied the old man, "since he has risked
life and limb to give you this."

He drew from his vest a billet in the well-known hand of the
queen. The monarch kissed it eagerly, and hastily perused its
contents. It deplored the wreck of their mutual fortunes, and
urged him to escape with her to France.

This," he observed, with a sigh, " must be my last resource :
the king who abandons his throne seldom returns to find the seat
unfilled. But Henrietta shall retire to France. My heart will
beat the lighter when I know that she is safe from insult and the
thousand wrongs which wait on fallen greatness."

With a trembling hand he traced his request — nay, made it his
positive command — not doubting, in his confident affection, but it
would be necessary to induce her to leave the kingdom. Poor
king, he had not learnt to judge even his wife !

And now, my honest fellow," he said, as he placed the letter
in his hand, " what can a king, whose sceptre has been wrenched
by traitors from his grasp, do to prove his gratitude ? "
Martin hesitated : he had a request, but feared to urge it.
Here," resumed the speaker, at the same time removing from
his hat the diamond ornament which fastened the plume ; " this
jewel is all Charles Stuart can now bestow. Guard it well ; a day
may come in which I shall redeem it."

No," said the old man ; " not for gold or jewels have I ventured
this ; they child not then repay me. Permit me," he added,
blushing at his boldness, " to kiss your royal hand ; it will be
something for my children's children to be proud of."

The boon was granted, and the huntsman raised it respectfully
to his lips.

Charles again proffered the jewel, which was once more rejected.
Martin was repaid.

If," he said, " they take your majesty to Newcastle, and the
means are found for your escape, will you consent to profit by
them ? "
I will."

And this," added Martin, " shall be the token that you may
trust the messenger — ' God and the king.' There are still," he added,
loyal hearts in England which beat indignantly at this outrage — ■
still hearts willing to shed their best blood in the defence of your
sacred life. My young master, Herbert of Cranfield, and your
Royal nephew are in Newcastle planning the way to save you."

Away ! " exclaimed the king, hastily, for he heard the clatter
of horsemen approaching the royal tent, which was deserted by
all but a few Scotch attendants, who had been placed there more
as spies upon his person than to wait upon him. " Bear our
greeting to the queen, and our thanks to the generous friends who
still watch over us."

The sounds now became more distinct ; and the huntsman,
fearful of compromising the success of those who sent him, hastily
retreated by the same way he entered, and Charles once more was
left to the solitude of his own reflections. It was not destined to
endure long. At a signal given by the Scotch commissioner, the
servitors raised the curtains, and the king beheld the army of his

faithless subjects in full retreat. Pembroke and the Commoner 8
joined with him in his office entered the tent. They found the
king seated, as calm in his demeanour as they had ever seen him
in the royal closet at St. James's, or the royal abode of Windsor.

Sire," said the earl, in a voice which trembled with emotion,
we are commissioned by your majesty's faithful Commons to
conduct your royal person, with all due reverence, to Newcastle."

We are much beholden to our faithful Commons'' 1 replied the
captive, laying an ironical stress upon the word 'faithful,' "for
their care ; — and when must we depart ? "

"As soon as the escort is formed. Be assured, sire," added the
peer, " that I accepted this sad office but in the hope of rendering
its duties less painful to your majesty."

We are beggars, my lord, even in gratitude. You must teach
us how to repay such loyalty and service, albeit we are used to
them of late."

The sigh which accompanied this speech betrayed the state of
mind of the betrayed king, and how deeply he felt his degradation.

"Your majesty," said the Scotch commissioner, approaching
him.

Back ! " said the king, haughtily. " The foe who draws his
sword openly in the field against the person of his sovereign maybe
a traitor, and he at least is a true one ; but the curs who sell, as
Judas sold his Master, the blood of their prince for gold, merit only
loathing and contempt."

Scotland, sire — "

Is dishonoured in her sons — thee fair page of her chivalry forever
blotted : henceforth her name shall become a proverb for
broken faith — her ancient loyalty a jest. When your children's
children shall speak of Bannockburn, posterity shall scoff and echo
Charles ! ' Go," he added, " I scorn too much to curse ye ! "

The vindictive Presbyterian would have made an angry reply to
the proud scorn with which the king overwhelmed him, but Charles
impatiently turned towards the English commissioners.

My lords," he said, " I am still your king ; insult not the fallen
majesty of England by confronting it with such a presence."

Pembroke was a soldier and a gentleman ; as such he could well
appreciate the feelings of the speaker. Without permitting the
Scotchman to reply, he hurried him from the tent, and immediately
returned to him who was now his prisoner.

When must we depart ? " demanded Charles, who had resumed
his usual calmness.

"Whenever it pleases your majesty; the horse are ready : we
wait but your orders to depart."

The king smiled bitterly at the courtesy under which his arrest
was veiled, even while he felt grateful for it. Still wearing his
sword — for no one ventured to demand that he should surrender

that — he mounted on horseback, the earl and the rest of the commissioners
standing uncovered till he departed.

On his way to Newcastle, Charles was met by the principal
nobility and gentry of the towns through which he passed. Prayers
were offered up for his safety, and he was everywhere treated with
the honours due to his rank ; the only difference was, that none of
his chaplains were permitted to attend him, and he obstinately
refused to permit those appointed by the Parliament, who were
chiefly Nonconformists, to celebrate service in his presence, or even
say grace at his table. This was not the least impolitic part of his
conduct, as these men possessed considerable influence with the
people, and that influence was everywhere exerted to excite their
evil passions against the royal captive.

The second night of his residence in Newcastle, his majesty,
after amusing himself at bowls, retired to rest at an early hour.
The room was one of those panelled ones which are still to be seen
in old-fashioned houses of the Elizabethan, and even later periods.
Two stern Republicans were placed as sentinels at his door, with
strict injunctions not to permit even the Gentlemen of the Chamber
to enter after they had once performed their services and retired
for the night ; a sentinel, for further precaution, was placed under
each of his windows.

The unfortunate captive was pacing, in solitary desolation, his
prison-chamber, when his attention was attracted by a deep-drawn
sigh. He started. At first he deemed his ear had deceived him,
or that it was but the echo of his own sad breathing. Looking
round the apartment, his eye suddenly rested on the portrait of a
knight in armour, the eyes of which he fancied were fixed with a
melancholy expression upon himself. It was by his favourite
painter Vandyke, whose pencil has rendered the features of the
royal martyr so familiar to the world in the glorious labours of his
genius. . v .' •

How matchless' exclaimed the king, " is the painter's art !
Immortality starts from the easel, and Death is robbed of half his
triumph. By Heaven ! I could almost think the eyelids moved ! "

The sigh was repeated ; and a low, musical voice exclaimed :

Sire ! sire ! "

Who speaks ? " demanded Charles.

'Tis I — the unhappy Rupert — compelled to move, like a vile
ruffian, in darkness and in secrecy, when I would brave all for the
rescue of my king. Can we speak freely ? "

Charles approached the door with the intention of drawing the
bolt, but found it had been removed. To prevent surprise, he
silently drew a heavy chair against it.

Speak ! " he whispered.

Have you a knife ? "

I have. 'Tis here upon the table."



Eip open the mattress of the bed. You will find concealed in
it the uniform of one of Cromwell's Ironsides. To-morrow night,
as soon as you hear the sentinel beneath your window change —
array yourself in it, and at the third tap upon the casement open
it boldly, and step forth ; there will be none but friends to meet

you."

Friends ! " repeated the king, mournfully ; " alas ! I have long
ceased to count upon them. They are like shadows — seen but in
sunshine."

Despair not, sir," continued his nephew. " A bark is ready —
all is prepared. In two days you shall reach the hospitable shores
of France. Say that you accept the offer."

I do," said the king, in a firm tone ; for late events had convinced
him that the Independents aimed at nothing less than his
life. " Hush ! silence ! I hear a hand upon the door ! "

The king threw himself into an easy-chair. The next moment
the door of the chamber was pushed open, and Cromwell and
Ireton entered. The captive's heart sank as he beheld them.

CHAPTER XII.

Charles received his visitors with that cold pride which, with
him, was more characteristic of anger than the ebullition of passion.
Invective he never descended to, and reproaches but seldom. The
peculiar school of politics in which he had been trained by the
royal pedant his father, who thought that kingcraft consisted in
deceit, at least possessed one advantage : it left him in the most
trying circumstances master of himself. For a few moments the
men whose destinies brought them thus in juxtaposition eyed
each other in silence. The king was the first to speak.

It is not thus," he exclaimed, " after our interview by the
Maiden's Oak, that I expected we should meet. Is this the faith
of the soldier's plighted word ? — this the service which was to have
healed the bleeding wounds of a distracted country and given a
nation peace ? "

Ireton opened his eyes in mute astonishment. Till the present
moment he never dreamt that Charles and his general had met.
Cromwell cared little for the opinion he might form : he knew that
he was bound to his fortunes by stronger ties than love — interest
and ambition. His success was the ladder by which alone the
rough soldier could hope to mount to greatness. Still he did not
wish that his companion should be present at the interview.
Suddenly changing, therefore, his intention, he motioned him
from the room with a wave of his hand, which was silently obeyed.
The future Protector already aped his coming royalty. Charles
smiled sarcastically as Ireton departed.

VOL. III. N 2

You wish no witness of our interview," he said ; " conscience
will whisper why."

I will tell you why," replied the iron soldier : " I would that
others should not witness the degradation of a man who has swayed
the sceptre of a mighty people — of one who has been king."

Has been king ! " repeated the captive, a slight flush suffusing
his pale cheek ; " who is ! "

Well," resumed his visitor with a cold smile., " who is — at least
for a little longer."

Traitor ! "

Thou shalt thyself decide between us which is the traitor — the
man who in simple confidence asked nothing for himself, but all
for his country ; or the prince who, with the promise fresh upon
his lips, could write this letter, in which the hangman was to be
made the instrument of his word."

As he spoke he threw upon the table the fatal letter written by
the king the very evening after their interview, and which our
readers may remember Ireton had obtained at the price of the life
of the unlucky messenger. Charles took up the paper, and read it
without change of countenance.

Thou art silent, prince," said Cromwell.

"And is this," said the monarch, after a pause, "the justification
of thy treachery ? — a letter written to calm the pride of a passionate
woman, who felt her husband's humiliation, and, in the royalty of
her nature, resented it — this to break a compact between men who
were pledged to work out the salvation of their country ? Ask
thy heart," he added, "whether it sought not the excuse more
eagerly than the fulfilment of thy pledge. Ambition is ingenious
in its justification."

More so than tyranny ? " demanded the Puritan, sarcastically.

Traitor ! " exclaimed Charles, stung from his usual self-possession.
" Thickest thou thy feigned humility and moderation
have deceived me ? I read thy purpose as plainly as if thy tongue
had uttered it — the secret aspirations of thy heart — thy dreams of
rule and sovereignty."

Sovereignty ! " repeated Cromwell, starting ; for the accusation
was unexpected, and conscience whispered it was true.

Ay, sovereignty ! " repeated the king, bitterly ; " a pageant
sceptre and a tottering throne. What can ambition offer thee but
the mockery of royalty ? The crown would scar thy brow, the
mighty shades of England's hundred kings scoff at thy mimic
State. Born a subject, thou canst have no subjects. The meanest
artisan would feel himself thy equal, the noble thy superior. Care
would haunt thy pillow, despair and terror corrode thy heart.
Remember his fate who laid an unsanctified hand upon the altar ! "

Misfortune hath distraught thy judgment, prince," replied the
soldier. " I have not fought against tyranny to become myself a

tyrant. The designs you impute to me exist but in that suspicion
of the integrity of others which through life has been your bane.
It is the curse of kings," he added, " never to know their friends,
and to misjudge their enemies."

Thou dearest avow that thou art mine ? "

My actions, sir, proclaim me what I am. "We are both the
creatures of destiny, which, struggle as we may, we cannot overrule,
but docile-like must follow. It may lead you once more to a crown
to that power which is so dear to every kingly heart — me to a
scaffold, exile, or a prison, but never to dishonour ; that is the only
point at which man may bid defiance to Fate, whose iron hand may
crush, but, without his own consent, never degrade him."

It may lead thee to power also," said Charles, significantly.

And if it does," replied Cromwell, proudly, " I'll wield it as I
won it — in battling for my country's rights. I will do more for
England then her hundred kings. Her laws shall be respected ;
her flag float in queen-like pride over every sea ; her name the
watchword and beacon of the world in its dark night of slavery.
Farewell, king ! I came to justify my broken pledge. I have done
so," he added, pointing to the letter which Charles still retained in
his hand, "not to mock thy fallen greatness, or insult a captive.
Parliament once more perchance will treat with thee. Take the
advice of him thou deepest thy foe. Act for once with sincerity ;
'tis the last chance for thee and thy doomed race."

The speaker, without waiting a reply, slightly raised his hat (for
he had been covered during the interview), and inclining as if born
equal, stalked out of the room. The rattling of his heavy sword
and spurs fell heavily on the ears of the captive monarch as Cromwell
descended the stairs.

Oh ! but for one of the occasions I have thrown aside, as
children do an ill-used toy ! but for one hour of my former power,
to make the plebeian feel how fearful is the wrath of kings, how
terrible their judgment ! Poor Henrietta," he added, gazing on
the letter, "little dost thou deem how fatal thy influence and
prejudice have been to thy unhappy husband's fortune ! I must
yield all things now. It is no longer a crown, but the game of life
I am to play for, with fearful adversaries, who hold the balance in
their hands. Would I were in France ! " he added ; " there I might
urge a league of kings — for 'tis not the life of Charles alone is
threatened, but the monarchy of Europe in his person. Life ! "
he repeated ; " no ! no ! I alarm myself without a cause, and
start at shadows. Fallen as England is from its ancient loyalty,
many a bloody battle must be fought ere these traitors would be
permitted to lay a sacrilegious hand upon a head which God hath
anointed to rule over them. I wrong the chivalry of England."

The deluded monarch little thought that in a few short months
the nobility and gentry of the kingdom he had so long ruled over

would see him led like a criminal the scaffold, without one
appeal to arms to save him, or tattle only voice raised against
the judgment would be a woman's.

The next day Sir Nicholas Moore, Colonel Bowden, and three
members of the Commons, waited upon the captive prince with
overtures of treaty from the Parliament ; the Presbyterian party in
the House still wishing to make conditions with him. They were
favourably received ; Charles promised to name commissioners to
confer with them in the course of three days.

Notwithstanding the authority with which they were invested,
they were coldly received by the victorious army, which was
officered chiefly by Independents, men whose fanaticism was a
fearful engine in the hands of their general, whose master-mind
knew how to turn it to his purpose.

And now, sire, that the preliminaries for a happy arrangement
are adjusted, the Parliament have two requests to make."

But two ? " replied the king, smiling bitterly, for he felt that
in his position their requests were tantamount to a command ;
they are too moderate ; pray name them."

"The first," said Sir Nicholas, ' ; is, that your majesty would
graciously be pleased to advance nearer to London, in order to
facilitate the happy consummation which the Commons are
anxious to bring about."

"Accorded cheerfully. I cannot be too near such faithful
subjects," replied Charles.

The next," resumed the commissioner, " is that you pledge
your royal word not to change your residence without giving
notice three days beforehand to the House."

This last article, which it was perfectly in the power of those
who asked it to enforce, was a bitter humiliation to the haughty
spirit of the king, who felt himself, however, compelled to grant it
also, for he w T as virtually a captive in their hands.

"The request is a strange one," he observed, " from a people to
their king."

The times and circumstances are equally strange, sire, replied
Colonel Bowden, who secretly inclined to the Independents. " The
royal faith has been so frequently violated by those who have
pledged it in your name, that the Commons feel justified in the
demand of a promise from your own lips."

I am to remain a prisoner, then ? "

A king can never be a prisoner, sire, surrounded by his
subjects."

Say rather his masters ! " exclaimed the king, impatiently —
for he felt the chain — " since they impose conditions. But be it
as you will. Had I a gallant army at my back — nay, but one troop
of horse — I would as soon pledge my word to the resignation of my
crown or the condemnation of my soul ; but in the hope that Parliament

will see in this unusual condescension to their wishes a sincere
desire to terminate the differences which distract both crown and
people, I do what no English monarch before me ever did — I pledge
my royal word and faith not to change my residence without giving
three days' notice of my intention."

"Keep them, king," whispered Sir Nicholas, as he bowed
profoundly before the captive, "and all may yet be well ; but your
enemies are powerful in high places ; they taunt your friends in
the Commons with broken faith and treaty — say no reliance can
be placed upon a pledge so often violated."

The traitors ! " murmured the king.

Forget not," added the commissioner, as he withdrew, " that
they are triumphant ones. Farewell."

Making each a low obeisance, the rest of the party quitted the
chamber where Charles had given them audience, and descended
to the saloon below, in which Cromwell, Ireton, and the principal
officers of the army were waiting to receive them.

So," said Ireton, " the babblers at Westminster have decided
on treating once more with this king, whose perjuries are as
numerous as the hairs in his beard. Will they never learn wisdom
from the past ? But the lessons of experience are thrown away on
some spirits, which seem born only to be deceived."

What Parliament in its wisdom hath decided," said Sir Nicholas,
firmly, " it is not for its servants to gainsay. I have yet to learn
by what authority those who are in arms under its commission
question its decisions. Does Colonel Ireton make this observation
in his own name, or is he the organ of the disaffection of those
around him ? "

Several of the officers were about to speak. From their stern
visages and flashing eyes, their leader guessed that the reply would
be nothing less than an open defiance both to the commissioners
and those who sent them, and cause a breach anything but favourable
to his purpose ; for the authority of Parliament was still
paramount, not only in London, but with the army of Fairfax,
whose wavering character and jealousy he feared.

Ireton ! " he exclaimed, " what means this unseemly questioning
of the will of the faithful Commons of England ? Have not we
drawn the sword to maintain their just authority ? and shall we
permit one who holds their commission to dispute it ? Retire to
your quarters, colonel, under arrest for four-and-twenty hours."

"Arrest!" repeated the astonished man; "why you yourself
just now said that "

"Your sword," said Cromwell, sternly advancing towards him,
and fixing his eyes with an expression so fierce upon him that
Ireton started. " Fool ! " he added, in an undertone, " would you
brave the lion before the snare is spread ? Have sense and prudence
quite deserted that dogged head of thine ? "

Ireton in an instant comprehended the imprudence of which he
feat been guilty, and resigned his sword with the air of a chidden
bully, so much did he stand in awe of his leader.

I meant no wrong, general, to the Parliament. I have fought
in its quarrel, bled in it, and, if necessary, am prepared to die in
its service. Mine is a soldier's tongue, and not a statesman's. It
makes me mad to see the good cause betrayed by a blind confidence
rim. the faith of a prince who never yet kept word with friend or
enemy ; by turns he hath betrayed them both."

The commissioners, satisfied with the reproof and the general's
zeal in maintaining the respect due to them as the commissioners
of the Commons, earnestly besought him to look over the offence,
as they did .

It may not be," replied Cromwell, with an affectation of
modesty which his officers saw through ; " I am the servant of the
Parliament, the creature of its breath in trust for it. Woe to me
if I do the work appointed negligently ! woe to me if I suffer its
will to be disputed by those who bear arms by its authority. The
unjust servant is a greater abomination in the sight of the Lord
than the unwise master. Therefore for three days the arrest
continues; and if I punish not his foolishness further, it is at your
intercession, who represent those whom I am most bound in all
things to obey."

There was a profound hypocrisy, mingled with prudence, in this
affectation of humility ; for the speaker well knew that if he had
ordered his soldiers to tie the commissioners neck and heels and
cast them into the Tyne, not a single voice would dispute his
command, or an arm be raised against it ; but his policy, in pursuit
of greatness, was like that of Fabius, to be won by delay. On the
battle plain he had all the quick perception, decision, and fiery
instinct of the soldier who had risen from comparative obscurity
to command. In the first he followed the cold calculations of
reason, in the latter the impulse of his genius. It was the same
spirit of caution which induced him, in after life, to reject the
crown he had dreamt of and longed for— to turn from the path
which he had washed with blood, yet feared to tread.

No sooner were the commissioners started for York, than the
general sought the quarters of Ireton, where he was still under
arrest. He had employment for him, and well knew that his bull-headed,
dogged nature would stick at no deed to advance either
his interest or hate."

Friends ! " muttered the prisoner, " friends ! I wonder what
use the word has, unless in the vocabulary of fools. A man may
risk life and limb to pleasure them, shed his blood as freely as the
juice of the grape, win reward, honour, gold, thanks, or empty
praise, but never find a friend."

What now ? " said Cromwell, smiling, for he knew the humour

of the speaker ; " hast no more patience than a moping girl pining
her lover's absence ? In the game of life men only should take an
active part."

I am tired of the part I have taken, since it has led to this
disgrace."

There has been no disgrace at all. Tut, man ! there is not a
dullard on the earth but feels that Ireton, in his blunt soldier
honesty, spoke the sense of all."

"Why was I punished, then ? "

Thought and speech are distinct," replied the general. " The
first hurts not, while, like a sword, it rests in the scabbard of
silence ; uttered, it is the weapon drawn. Wouldst have had me
send these buzzards back to Westminster to tell the Parliament
how dutifully its orders are scanned and obeyed by Cromwell and
his officers ? "

"No."

Or with an open defiance of its authority ? "

That were worse, since Fairfax and his army lie between us
and the capital, and the Presbyterians muster strong in the high
place. I see my folly, and that you have acted wisely. How long
must this arrest continue ? "

It is ended. This is not the time, when the good cause hath
need of every arm, to keep one of its champions idle. Pick out a
dozen of the men on whom you can best rely, and follow these
commissioners to York."

What to do ? Cut their throats ? " demanded Ireton.

Heaven forbid ! at least without necessity — such as the salvation
of the cause or the right of self-defence ; in which case, act as thine
instinct, tempered by prudence, prompts."

Ireton nodded, and buckled the heavy sabre, which was lying
upon the table, on his thigh. His instructions were like a roving
commission — they authorised everything — and he knew how to
use it ; still he could not understand for what particular purpose
he was to take this journey to York, and waited for further orders.

Watch the house," said Cromwell, " where these buzzards roost ;
surround it by night and day ; spare not for gold — I will provide
thee ; it is one of the many keys of the , human heart : try it upon
their servants. Watch if Fairfax has a meeting with them."

Fairfax ! " repeated the soldier ; "can you suspect ? "

Everything," resumed the general. " Parliament is resolved,
if possible, to take Charles out of the hands of his captors. Like
the Israelites of old, when rescued from Egyptian bondage, it sighs
after the flesh-pots, and seeks it once more to set its idol in its
place that it may worship it. This the Presbyterians, from jealousy
of the Independents, weakly lean to. If Fairfax and the commissioners
meet, we have nothing left but to sell our lands, and
start to seek a new home in the New World."

"Not yet," said Ireton, touching his sword significantly.
Charles, at least, is in our hands."

"And were he dead," demanded his companion, coldly, " would
it better our position ? Has he not a son ? Men are mortal, but
principles never die. It would rather change our situation for the
worse : for with the father's life would perish the memory of the
father's crimes, all parties would rally round his son, and monarchy
once more rear its head. No, Ireton," he added, calmly ; " the head
of Charles Stuart must be sacred, unless it falls by a sentence of
the people. Now, then, away ! " he added, fearing he had spoken
too much ; for he was not a man who frequently suffered his secret
purpose to peep through his words. " Watch the house as a jealous
lover would watch his mistress's bower, or a miser the casket which
contains the hoarded treasure of his life. If Fairfax and the commissioners
meet, the cause for which we strive is lost."

They shall not meet, if human courage can prevent it," replied
Ireton. " I may not have a head to deal with them, but I've an
arm which fears nor man nor devil. I am to use any means ? " he
added, at the same time fixing his eyes with a peculiar expression
upon Cromwell.

"Any means" repeated his leader, firmly.

Enough, general ; we understand each other."

Perfectly. Adieu ! "

The speakers separated : the master-mind to mingle with his
officers and temper their spirits by contact with his own ; Ireton
to select his men and start upon his errand.

Scarcely had the bugle sounded to horse in Ireton's regiment,
and the men drawn up upon the ground fronting the castle-yard,
than their colonel appeared, and was received with a hearty cheer
by his men, to whom his blunt manner and soldier-like bearing
had endeared him, as well as the indulgence he invariably showed
to their habits of plunder and other petty delinquencies ; indeed,
it was a saying in the army that any of his men might do as they
liked, provided they fought like devils and never missed drill,
where their commander was a martinet.

Something in the wind," observed an old sergeant, as Ireton
galloped down the line.

It is a prayer meeting, then," whispered another.

Where is Styleman ? " demanded the colonel.

Here."

A thin, Puritanical-looking fellow stepped from the ranks and
saluted.

Pick out three of the best shots in the regiment — fellows who
could strike a stag in the eye at full speed, nor ever miss their
mark."

The selection was soon made, and nine men, who were equally
noted either for strength, courage, or devotion, added to their

number. After seeing that their arms were in order, Ireton
ordered them to mount, and, placing himself at their head, galloped
down the High Street of Newcastle, leaving the command of his
regiment to one of his officers, who understood both his humour,
discipline, and tactics.

Immediately after the interview with the commissioners, Charles
retired to his chamber to reflect on his position and the promise
he had given, which, despite the danger that surrounded him, he
determined to keep ; for he began to feel men's confidence in his
faith was shaken, and that his name was become a by-word with
his enemies. Sad thoughts of the future, and vain regrets for the
past, were mingled in his reveries. During her stay at Exeter his
unhappy queen had given birth to a daughter, whom his heart
yearned to bless, his eyes longed to see, but in vain ; the happiness
within the reach of the poorest peasant was denied to him.

"Why was I born a king ? " he murmured — " born to inherit the
sleepless cares, pains, and deep-rooted thorns which gall the wearer
of a crown ? I am heart-sick. Hope, the wretch's last consolation,
flies from me. I am as a man who has lived in a world of shadows.
Nothing is real but bitterness and mockery, treachery and disappointment."


That same evening, just as the unhappy speaker was about to
retire to rest, a slight tapping at the wainscot attracted his attention.
Turning his eyes to the portrait, he saw that his nephew Rupert
was at his hiding-place.

Hist ! hist ! sire — are you alone ? " demanded the faithful
cavalier.

Alone with solitude and misery," answered the captive,
mournfully.

Now, then, is the moment. Rip open the mattress of the bed,
and you will find the disguise within. A faithful friend is on
guard beneath your window ; horses are ready on the other side of
the Tyne, and tried hearts waiting with impatience to receive you.
Once free, and you are again a king."

Impossible," said Charles. " 1 have received a message from
the Parliament, whose commissioners this very morning left me.
I have pledged my royal word not to change my residence without
giving three days' notice of my intention. This time, at whatever
peril, my faith must be kept."

"Faith !" repeated the prince, scornfully ; "with whom ? Perjured
traitors — subjects who have broken their allegiance, and
taken up arms against your sacred person — perjured knaves, who
seek to lull you to your ruin. Listen to the advice of your true
friends — of those who love you — who would die for you. In an
hour the guard will be changed, and this occasion — bought with
such cost, and yet greater peril — past, never to return. Think,
sire, — liberty and your wife and children wait you."

"You mistake, Rupert. Henrietta has by this returned to
France."

I tell you, sire, she is still in England. Think you a devoted
love like hers could seek ignoble safety whilst danger threatened
your royal life ? "

Life ! " repeated the king, with an involuntary start ; " no,
Rupert ; these rebels may uncrown me — place my son upon my
outraged throne — but never lay a hand upon the life which God
hath anointed by His ministers. Whate'er the dangers which
threaten, I have no fear for the safety of my person. Hypocrites
as they are, they would pause at such a sacrilege."

To make the blow more sure, I tell you, uncle, father, friend,
that you are betrayed by the too-great confidence of your own
generous nature. Remember your royal grandmother, and be
warned ! She too trusted her life to England's hospitality and
honour. Fotheringhay and the headsman's ruffian strength best
answer how that trust was kept. The English are loyal only while
they feel the collar on their necks, and the chain which binds them
held by a firm hand. Once loosen it, and they run riot in the
madness of their fury and thirst for blood. It is their nature to
be cruel."

Charles, though deeply moved by the allusion to the fate of his
unhappy grandmother, the beautiful but unfortunate Mary Stuart,
remained firm in his resolution. He remembered what the sacrifice
of his word had already caused him — the death of his friend
Strafford, whom he had weakly sacrificed, the loyalty of his native
subjects, the Scotch, whom he had deceived. It had also twice
caused to be broken off negotiations with the Parliament, which
promised much better conditions than he could now hope to
obtain.

It is useless, Rupert," he said with a sigh, " to urge me further.
Whate'er the hazard, I am determined to abide by the word I have
given — the faith I have pledged."

At this moment a slight noise, like the pecking of a bird against
the casement, drew him to the window. It was the disguised
sentinel beneath, whose impatience at the delay amounted to agony,
not from apprehension of any personal danger, but anxiety lest the
precious moments should escape before the safety of the monarch,
for whom he risked so much, had been assured.

Lose not a moment, sire," he whispered imploringly ; " in
another half-hour the guard will be changed, and the occasion lost;
the patrol have just gone their last round."

Who art thou ? " demanded the king kindly ; for the night was
so dark he could not see the speaker's features, which the heavy
broad-brimmed hat aided to obscure.

"Your majesty's unworthy servant, Herbert of Cranfield," was
the reply.

Had I but an army composed of such devoted hearts," said the
monarch, " I would rule England as my ancestors have ruled it.
But that hope is past ; we must temporise now ; — I cannot fly."

A prisoner ! "

Doubly so ; bound by honour and good faith. If the Parliament
is sincere in its offers, I may yet reward thee ; if not, take this poor
token of thy sovereign's gratitude. Alas ! it is not with so poor
• a bauble I would have repaid thy loyalty and service."

The speaker drew from his finger a ring containing his portrait
cut on a balls ruby, and set with brilliant ; the token was
enamelled in the gold work, and bore his cipher on the back.
The ancient family of the Pulleys of Suffolk, who inherited it
from their ancestor, still retain the gem, which they prize, as a
relic of the unhappy donor, a thousand times beyond its value,
which, independent of its historical associations, is considerable.
The writer of these chronicles has many times worn it on his
hand.

Let me entreat you, sire," exclaimed the young man, after
kissing the hand extended to him, " to let no vain scruple prevent
your present safety. The moment is most favourable ; once lost,
fortune may not present it to your choice again."

"No."

For the sake of her you love — the child whose innocent cries
seem to demand a father's blessing ! " urged Rupert, who, from
his position, could both see and hear what passed ; " delay not
another minute ; with my sword I will justify your breach of
faith with these worthless traitors."

No," replied Charles, with yet firmer resolution than before ;
I thank you for your loyalty and love, but my resolution is
unalterable : whatever be the result, I shall abide by the faith I
have given."

With these words he closed the window, and to prevent further
importunity from the young knight, let fall the heavy drapery,
which effectually prevented all further attempts on his part, either
to attract his attention or speak with him. Still Herbert did not
abandon the post of danger he had chosen till the last moment.
It was not till he heard the tread of the patrol upon the terrace
that he threw down his musket and fled. Perhaps the love of
life was warm at his young heart when he remembered that there
still existed in the world for him a being whose existence was so
closely knit with his that the same blow which severed the thread
of his existence ended hers.

Rupert," said the king, approaching the portrait, " can you not

descend ? Our conversation may be overheard by the knaves in the

ante-chamber, who are little better than gaolers and spies on their

unhappy prince."

Impossible, sire," replied the young man ; " the aperture is only

large enough to admit my head. Have you never heard the mystery
of this house ? "

Never."

There is a fearful legend connected with it. Its former owner
contrived this recess, which is cut in the stonework of the wall,
in order to watch his innocent and beautiful wife, of whom he was
furiously jealous. His suspicions and cruelty had driven from
her kindred, parents-and friends. It was in the time of the civil
wars between the rival roses of York and Lancaster. Unhappily,
the family had taken different sides ; and a young brother, pressed
by his enemies, fled to his sister's arms for safety. The poor boy
found a grave."

A grave ! "

Her husband, from his place of concealment, witnessed their
interview. It was at the twilight hour, and took place in this very
chamber. Maddened by the very sight of their embraces, he
fired ; and the brother died in his guiltless sister's arms. What
followed was never distinctly known ; but for many years there
was a maniac woman and a joyless man. Could these walls speak,
there is not a stone but hath a tale of misery. The steward of the
mansion, a thing of dross and earth who would sell his soul for
gain, bribed by my gold, hath imparted the secret to me. I thought
to use it for your service ; but this unhappy resolution "

Must not be tampered with," interrupted his uncle, firmly.
Now, then, listen to my last commands."

Your last commands, sire ! "

The deep sigh which followed proved, with all his errors, how
deeply the gallant soldier's heart was touched. Born a prince,
reared in the camp, a witness from infancy of the misfortunes of
his own parents, he felt deeply the sorrows of the prince who had
been all but a parent to him.

Seek the queen ; bear my last blessing to her and my children
; assure her of my undying love and constancy ; tell her her
name will be the last my lips will bless — her image fade but
with life from my worn heart. And charge her," he added, "as
she values her children's safety and her own honour, instantly to
depart for France ; there she may rest till happier times recall her
to a throne."

"And what," said the prince, "would be the throne of the
universe without you ? "

Perchance we both may share it. I have strong hopes in
the sincerity of the Parliament."

"And I none. Oh, yet reflect."

My resolution's taken — farewell ! Hark ! " added the king,
as the tramp of heavy feet was heard upon the stairs, " they
come — away ! Let me not add thy death to the list of my misfortunes."



With a groan of agony which echoed through the chamber,
Rupert tore himself away. His forebodings were bur too true — he
and his royal uncle never met again.

Charles had scarcely time to resume his seat, and occupy himself
with a book, when the door of the chamber was rudely opened, and
Hamilton, with a party of officers, entered the chamber. They
started at the sight of the king, whom it was evident they had
not expected to find.

What means this intrusion ? " demanded his majesty, calmly.

Humph ! " said Hamilton, suspiciously, " the sentinel beneath
your window has disappeared. I thought "

"That the king had broken his word," added the captive.
Know him better."

It would not have been the first time."

Insolent ! "

The rude Republican was about to make an angry reply, when
his companions, several of whom were touched by the calm majesty
of the captive, drew him from the chamber ; a fresh guard was set,
and the already dethroned monarch left t<3 his own thoughts and
solitude again.

A week afterwards a small bark was lying at anchor off the roads
at Falmouth ; it bore French colours, and seemed to belong to the
numerous fishing or smuggling vessels at that period so numerous
on the coast. Five persons were standing on the beach, close to
which a boat, filled with men well armed, was rocking on the crisp
billows breaking on the shore.

'Tis past the hour," observed a lady, who was enveloped in a
dark mantle, which could not entirely conceal the majesty of her
person. " God ! this suspense is fearful. Should Rupert fail, or
Charles weakly hesitate, my last hope will be broken."

The speaker was no other than the unhappy queen, who had
delayed her flight to the last moment, in the vain hope that her
husband would be induced to share it. Mary, who had been,
during her confinement in Exeter, her nurse and unwearied
attendant, held the royal infant closely nestled at her breast, in
order to protect it from the night winds, which chilled its delicate
frame, and caused it to utter from time to time a feeble moan.
Deeply as she felt her own sorrows — for she knew the peril of the
undertaking in which Herbert was engaged — she had still in the
energy and hopefulness of her nature sufficient courage to sustain
the sinking spirits of her unhappy mistress. The rest of the party
were Lord Neville, Sir Malcolm Keinton, and young Vavasor.

Hark ! " exclaimed Mary, her heart beating with hope and
terror ; " I hear the tramp of horses. They have succeeded !
Courage, royal mistress, courage ! A few hours, and you tread
once more the sunny soil of France, free, with the husband of your
heart and his devoted friends."

Henrietta, scarcely able to speak, from the intense agony of her
emotion, held her hand upon her breast, as if to still the violent
throbbing of her heart. Her features were convulsed with
expectation.

I see them. Now they are upon the brow of yonder hill.
Three horsemen — only three. The first is Rupert ; I know his
gallant steed — it was my gift ; the second — no, no ; he bears too
slight a form ; and the third — God ! " she added, " all is past — it is
not my husband ! Lost ! lost ! My last hope gone ! "

The speaker, exhausted with her feelings, sank fainting in the
arms of her weeping attendants. When consciousness once more
returned, her nephew was at her feet, bathing her hands with tears.

Charles ! Charles ! " she sobbed.

Is in treaty with the Parliament. He has given his word not
to quit his present abode in Newcastle without informing them.
Prayers, remonstrances — all have been tried in vain. For once he
was immovable."

They will murder him ! " frantically shrieked the queen.

I am the bearer of his last commands. He entreats your
majesty will no longer delay to seek an asylum with your brother
in France."

I will not go ! " said Henrietta, firmly. " I shared his throne ;
if it must be, I will partake his prison. Procure me horses — instantly,
aye, instantly ; " she added, " we start this instant."

Where to ? " respectfully demanded Lord Neville.

To Newcastle — London — to my husband ; my place is by his
side."

Your place," whispered Mary, placing the infant to her lips,
is with your children, royal lady. Be firm. England will never
permit violence to the monarch it has sworn to honour. Its faith — "

Curse its faith ! — it is hollow as the hopes with which it
welcomed me — false as the treachery which broke them. Oh !
could I breathe a malediction on its sons, like a flame of fire it should
consume them. Husband — crown — are lost ; my heart is broken."

"Queen," said Rupert, hoping by that word to recall her to
herself.

Ay, queen of a broken sceptre and an outraged throne. Let
them take all. I scorn them — their homage and lip loyalty. My
son may yet avenge me. Horses, horses ! I command — implore
you," sheathed, sobbing like a child, for her strength was gone.
My husband ! Charles ! Charles ! "

Once more the speaker fainted, and in this state was borne to the
little boat, which quickly rowed towards the ship. As soon as it
had received its precious burden, the vessel opened its white sails,
and directed its course to France.

When next Henrietta set foot upon the soil of England, she was
both the widow and mother of a king.

CHAPTER XIII.

On the 23rd of July the final propositions of Parliament were
presented to the king at Newcastle by the Earl of Pembroke, the
Earl of Denbigh, and Lord Montague, on the part of the Peers, and
by six members of the House of Commons — the commissioners of
the Scottish Parliament, who were present, consenting to them.
These nobles and gentlemen, who sincerely desired peace, humbly
entreated Charles to consent to them ; but he, emboldened by the
division which was daily taking place between the Presbyterians
and Independents, daily took exceptions to some particulars,
whereby the affairs of the kingdom were retarded.: It is supposed
he was induced to act thus by the secret representations of Lord
Digby, who flattered him with hopes that the former party, alarmed
at the increasing preponderance of their rivals, would declare for
him. Perhaps the most destructive act of their policy was the
indiscreet zeal with which they hastened the departure of the Scottish
army from the kingdom, it being of the same religious views as
themselves.

Many men who did not love the king personally, but who loved
monarchy, implored him to accept the propositions as the only
means of saving the throne ; others used prayers, mingled with
threats. The Earls of Argyll and Lauder besought him on their
knees, but all in vain. The latter, who was Chancellor of Scotland,
told him plainly that his assent was necessary to the preservation
of his crown and kingdom, and that the danger of his refusal would
be without remedy. " The Parliament," he urged, " are in
possession of your navy and army, and all the towns, castles,
and forts in England." Still Charles refused to sign ; a veil of
mental darkness seemed to have obscured his understanding.

In the course of the debates in the House a Presbyterian member
exclaimed :

What will become of us now the king has refused to accept the
terms proposed ? "

What would have become of us," demanded one of the Independents,
" if he had accepted them ? "

The last act of blind confidence in his resources and prospects
set the seal upon his doom. Henceforth he walked beneath the
shadow of the headsman's axe. The enemies of the monarchy
triumphed. The royal captive was soon afterwards removed from
Newcastle to Hollinby House — a stately old mansion in a pleasant
country, at no great distance from the fatal field of Naseby — where
he passed his time in reading, chess, playing at bowls, and
walking.

At this time, triumphing in their success, the Presbyterian party
had proclaimed the establishment of their own form of worship,
to the exclusion of every other, and laboured hard to arrest the
VOL. III. o 2

many sects comprised under the general term of Independents*
They had even determined to disband the victorious army and
create a new one devoted to their party. But here they reckoned
without sense or prudence ; for, secretly as the resolution was taken,
it got wind. Ireton was one of the first who heard of it. The
occasion was a good one for the furtherance of his long-cherished
scheme of allying himself to the man whom he looked upon as
the rising favourite of Fortune. Events soon afterwards proved
that the rough soldier had made a shrewd calculation.

Cromwell was seated in his study reflecting on the various phases
of his varied existence — his early struggles, dreams of ambition,
hopes which promised so near a realisation — when a knock at the
secret door startled him from his reverie. Opening the concealed
door with the air of a man who welcomed the arrival of a long-expected
visitor, a slight frown passed over his countenance,
expressive of impatience, when he saw that it was Ireton.

You seem more surprised than pleased to see me," exclaimed
the rough soldier, as he carelessly threw his hat and sword upon
the table and took a chair opposite his host; "natheless, it is
friendship brings me here to-night."

An almost imperceptible smile curled the lips of Cromwell at
the word " friendship." He had mingled so much in the world,
and possessed the intuitive faculty of reading character to so
remarkable a degree, that a miser professing charity, or a
drunkard's praise of sobriety, would not have astonished him
more than the speaker's profession of friendship. It is strange
how the study of humanity debases it in our judgment. We find
the trail of the serpent over every flower of earth — they bloom not
as in Eden.

Humph ! you smile ! "

Ay ! " said the master of the mansion, " as a man smiles when
he sees spread before him the net which caught him when a child.
Friendship ! " he repeated grimly ; " take the ware to some other
mart. I have cheapened the commodity too often not to know its
selling price."

I have a secret which concerns the safety of the cause in which
are both ei

Name it."

Ireton hesitated ; he scarcely knew how to broach the affair
nearest his heart — to ask the hand of the eldest daughter of his
host, the gentle Bridget, as the price of his service. Not that he
loved the maiden; cruel, ambitious, or revengeful men may
experience the passion, but never the sentiment of love — that is a
blessing God seems to have denied to mere earthly natures as
incompatible with its divine essence. His host perceived his
embarrassment and inquired the cause.

Come, man," he said, " we understand each other, and will not

chaffer, like two hucksters, about the price. Thy secret ! If it
prove worth the telling, the service shall be paid."

It concerns the very existence of the Independents as a party,
and the triumph of our faith, since it touches the life of some who
now hold their heads in the blind confidence of security."

The reward will be the greater," was the cold reply.

Hear me, then," said Ireton, lowering his voice to a whisper ;
"the Presbyterians and blind Royalists are leagued together to
restore the king. As a first step, tomorrow it will be proposed in
the Commons to disband the army — to raise a new one, to be
officered solely by men devoted to their interests ; and orders are
already signed for the arrest of several of the true friends of the
people — yourself amongst the number — and your committal to the
Tower."

Cromwell started from his chair with the air of a lion who, while
sleeping, has been wounded by the hunter's arrow. The intelligence
was of a nature to rouse all his savage energy, for he well
knew that the disbanding of the army was a step which, once
achieved, would lead not only to the overthrow of the dreams of
greatness in which he had been indulging, but the total defeat of
the principles for which he had successfully fought and bled.

The Tower ! " he repeated. " Fools ! before tomorrow's noon
they will require an army to consign me there. Is the arm that
struck at Naseby paralysed ? Am I grown old or feeble from
defeat ? Who is the leader of this devilish plot, which stifles the
people in their sworn defenders, and England's liberties through
her patriots' lives ? "

Fairfax."

The smooth-faced traitor ! Who next ? " demanded Cromwell.

Stapleton, Hollies, and a dozen others. Now," added the
informant, " have I not served the cause ? "

"Yes ; and though I cannot read thy heart to sift its motives,
the service shall not go unrewarded. What isn't thou meekest ? —
gold ? I should have thought thee rich enough already."

No," replied the soldier, affecting a contempt which he was
far from feeling ; " it is not with the dross of earth, but with its
fairest flower, my devotion to the cause must be repaid. I love
thy daughter, the good, the gentle Bridget. Grant me her hand,
and it shall be a solemn compact 'twixt us. I will prove as the
shadow of thy sword in action, the reflex of thy mind in council,
the minister of thy will in all things. Remember that my name,
e'en now, stands with the army and the cause but second to your
own."

The future Protector was startled at the request. Although to
all outward appearance so cold, he was an affectionate father ■ the
peculiar tenets of the sect to which he was devoted suppressed all
outward show of affection as a weakness unworthy of the men who

were chosen for the great work by the Lord. This unnatural
restraint frequently served but to increase the force of feeling.
As the stream too long dammed up at last flows over, so did the
affections of the stern Independent's heart break through the
artificial barriers which sometimes proved too weak to restrain them.

What ! " he exclaimed, " barter my child — coin my own blood
make of her innocence and young affection a thing of merchandise
? for that is merchandise which may be bought for
interest as well as gold. No, Ireton ; I prize thee as a soldier in
the field ; thy sword hath done good office, for thou art not of those
who are negligent when the good work is to be done ; but I cannot
force my child to be thy wife."

Force ! " replied his visitor ; " small force were necessary,
general. All do not think me the bull-headed soldier merely.
Not to disguise a truth thou soon must learn, I have found favour
in thy daughter's sight, and it is with her permission that I ask her
hand."

Cromwell was thunderstruck. He had a high sense of parental
authority, and the obedience which a parent had a right to exact
from a child. Although no tyrant in his family, he expected to
be consulted by them in all things ; and that his eldest daughter
should have given a word of promise or encouragement without
his permission, vexed and hurt him sorely ; but he felt that the
present moment was the time for action, not words ; and he was
one of those whose energies never failed them at a crisis : danger
seemed to arm his tongue with eloquence, and his heart with
courage.

We will speak of this anon. No more words," he added, as he
saw that Ireton was about to urge his suit. " I have promised that
we will speak of it, and that is much already. We must ride tonight.
There is safety in darkness. We have a long journey
before us. This is no time for wooing."

A journey ! " said the astonished Ireton. "Where to ? "

"In forty hours I expect to check my rein upon the banks of
Trent."

To the army ! the army ! I see, I see ! " exclaimed his visitor,
struck with admiration at the promptitude of the decision by which
the danger had been met. " There you will be in safety."

More," said his leader, " their master ; or if not that, in a
position to treat as power with power. Fools ! do they think the
cobweb nets of their weak policy can bend the iron energies of
men who have tried their strength on many a hard-fought field ?
The soldier's voice hath too long been mute in the councils of the
nation. Is he less a citizen than the prating lawyer or the purse-proud
trader ? But these are mere words, and the time calls for
action. Follow me," he added, " and as we ride press not thy suit
again. Enough that I have listened to it without reproof."

Ireton knew the speaker's disposition so well that he felt convinced
to urge him further at that moment would be to receive a
refusal, which would at once destroy his hopes ; for Cromwell was
a man who seldom returned upon his resolutions after he had
announced them. His weaknesses of purpose, the irresolution
which at times assailed him, were confined to his breast. To the
world they were, at least for the present, a secret. Bowing his
head in token of acquiescence, he followed his host in silence
through the secret door into a small courtyard at the back of the
house, from whence they passed into the stables, where two
powerful horses stood ready saddled in their stalls.

Mount," was the laconic order of their owner.

"Will you not first inform your family of your departure ? "
demanded Ireton, who hoped to obtain a sight of the fair Bridget,
to inform her that he had spoken with her father. " Your absence
may cause an unnecessary alarm."

They are not so trained. They know," replied Cromwell,
that my life is in His hands, without whose permission not even
a sparrow falls. Natheless," he added, resuming his soldier-like
habit and tone, " we are not warranted in trifling with the means
of safety. Look to your pistols, draw your sword-belt as you would
buckle the resolution to you ; no more words ; on in silence."

On a motion of the speaker's hand the grey-headed old servitor
opened the gate at the back of the stables, which was just large
enough to admit the egress of a man on horseback, and carefully
closed and barred it after them. As they passed Westminster Hall
the House had just broken up, and they saw the members hurrying,
some towards Charing Cross, others taking to their barges for the
City. It was evident that something of unusual interest had
occurred to agitate men's minds. They were in motion like a hive
of bees which had been disturbed — restless, impatient, and passionate.
Disputes rang upon the causeways, and the contention of the House
was continued even in the streets.

Following the v example of his leader, Ireton pulled his heavy
beaver over his brow, and drew his weather-beaten cloak so as to
disguise his person. Fortunately, the night was a dark one, and
they passed through Charing and the City unperceived. The next
day, when those who were intrusted with the order to arrest the
great leader of the Independents made their appearance at his
house, they found, to their chagrin, that the object of their pursuit
had fled. Disguising the real object of their visit under a clumsy
profession of courtesy, they retired to consult on some fresh scheme,
doomed to be defeated like the first.

A few days afterwards it was resolved by Parliament to dismiss
nearly the whole of the remaining army, to retain Sir Thomas
Fairfax as commander-in-chief, to allow no other officer to retain
a higher rank than that of colonel, and to exact from all of them

an oath to the Covenant and the Presbyterian Church by law
established. Some of these votes were aimed at Oliver Cromwell;
but they also excluded Ludlow, Ireton, Skippon, Blake, Algerian
Sidney, and others. It was ordered that a large portion of the
army should also be shipped for Ireland ; and this they did without
paying, or even talking of paying, any portion of the heavy arrears
due to the soldiers. The men vowed that they would not go
without their old officers — that they w T ould not be put under new
and untried ones — that they would not go to be destroyed, far from
their homes, by famine and disease ; and forthwith they broke up
their cantonments round Nottingham, and marched towards London.

Then it was that the Presbyterians, in a panic, voted an assessment
for paying the troops, but it was too late ; Cromwell had been
amongst them, and his fiery eloquence had so wrought upon their
religious enthusiasm, that they refused. His words had fallen like
a flame from a prophet's lips amongst them. On the intelligence
of their march reaching the City, a petition was set on foot, and
presented to the Commons, praying that the army might be
removed further from London. It complained, also, bitterly of a
counter-petition, set on foot by the Independents, and demanded
the punishment of the authors of it.

The petition of the Independents was in all respects a remarkable
document — the first and loudest call that had yet been made upon
Republican principles. The majority of the House, recovering
from their terror, voted that the petition should be condemned,
and that the army should not approach within twenty-five miles
of London. A deputation of members was sent down to Saffron-walden
to treat with Fairfax and the officers.

On the day after their arrival, Fairfax summoned a convention
of officers, who plainly told the commissioners of the Parliament
that they had been ill-used, and would not submit to it ; that they
must have payment of the arrears already due, and some indemnity
for their past sacrifices and services. In reporting their doings, or
their non-doings, to the Commons, the commissioners mentioned a
petition in progress in the army. In these stormy times late debates
had become common. This night the House sat very late, and,
being grown thin with long sitting," the Presbyterians voted the
petition of the army, which they had not seen, to be an improper
petition ; and further, that those of the army who continued in
their distempered condition, and went on in advancing and promoting
the petition, should be proceeded against as enemies to the
State and disturbers of the public peace. On the morrow the Lords
voted their adherence to the resolution. Fairfax remonstrated ina
mild manner; but the army complained of the injustice of not
being allowed to petition while the petitions against them were
not suppressed, and the cavalry talked of drawing to a rendezvous to
compose something for their vindication. On the 15th of April a

deputation from the two Houses again conferred with the army at
Saffron Walden. Colonel Lambert, in the name of the rest, desired
to know what satisfaction the Parliament had given to the queries
they had put at their last meeting with the deputation. Sir John
Allworthy assured Lambert that in Ireland they should all be
under the command of the popular Major-general Skippon ; but
then he added the unpopular name of the Presbyterian Massey.
Colonel Hammond declared, that if they had good assurance that
Skippon would go, he doubted not but a great part of the army
would engage. To this the officers cried out, " All, all ! " but
others shouted still louder, "Fairfax and Cromwell — give us
Fairfax and Cromwell, and we all go." After a vain attempt to
gain over volunteers, the deputation returned in dismay to London.
The question was adjourned from the 23rd to the 27th of April.
On that day Hollies urged on his party to vote that the whole army,
horse and foot, should be disbanded with all convenient speed, and
six weeks' pay given upon their disbanding, and that four of the
officers should be summoned by the Sergeant-at-Arma to attend at
the bar of the House.

On this very day some of the officers of that army presented an
energetic petition to the Commons. This paper, which was a
vindication of their conduct, rather than a petition, was signed by
Thomas Hammond, Lieutenant-general of the Ordnance, fourteen
colonels and lieutenant-colonels, six majors, and one hundred and
thirty captains, lieutenants, and other commissioned officers. " The
misrepresentation of us and our harmless intentions to this honourable
House," said these citizen-soldiers, " occasioning hard thoughts
and expressions of your displeasure against us, we cannot but look
upon as an act of most sad importance." After insisting on their
right of petitioning, they said, " We hope, by being soldiers, we
have not lost the capacity of subjects, nor divested ourselves
thereby of our interests in the commonwealth ; that in purchasing
the freedom of our brethren we have not lost our own." They
energetically justified their demands for money. " For the desire
of our arrears," said they, " necessity, especially of our soldiers,
enforced us thereunto. That we have not been mercenary, or
proposed gain as our end. the speedy ending of a languishing war
will testify for us, whereby the people are much eased of their
taxes and daily disbursements, and decayed trade restored to a full
and flourishing condition in all quarters." But before this time
an entire disaffection to the Presbyterian majority had declared
itself among the common soldiers ; and, irritated by the late disbanding
vote, and by the House not taking this petition of the
officers into immediate consideration, rank and file, troopers,
dragoons, and infantry, drew closer their recently-formed compact,
and prepared a document of their own for the perusal of the
House. They here described "a model of a military common

council, who should assemble two commissioned officers and two
private soldiers out of every regiment, to consult for the good of
the army." From this arrangement the superior officers stood
aloof ; and one, Captain Berry, a bosom friend and old companion
of Cromwell's, placed himself at their head, as was generally
supposed, by his direction. In fact, there is little doubt but he
was the master mind which governed and directed all things.
He now began to show himself as a statesman equal to the soldier.

The crisis was now hurried on. The Lords voted that the king
should be brought from Hollinby to Oakland, and a fresh treaty
opened with him. The army and the Independents, who were
almost one, resolved, if possible, to forestall the Presbyterians and
the peers in their design.

To London ! " exclaimed Cromwell, as soon as he heard the
news. "No, never shall the perjured Stuart enter the ancient
capital of England but as a prisoner — a criminal brought to answer
for his treasons to the people. Woe to us if we do the woi'k of the
Lord negligently. The Hand which hath sustained shall fall from
us, and our names become a reproach to future ages. If, on the
contrary, we persevere — fight the good fight — our name shall be
great amongst men, and our monuments erected in the hearts of
their children. It must be prevented."

But how ? " demanded Ireton, who was present at the council
of officers.

A smile passed over the lips of his future father-in-law, $s he
laconically answered :

"Arrest him."

At first there was a pause. It was one of those bold strokes of
policy which energetic minds alone are capable either of conceiving
or executing. The possession of the person of the captive
king would at once make the army not only master of his fate, but
deprive the Parliament of the only support which could uphold
them in their struggle with the military rulers of the clay, into
whose hands the power of the kingdom had already passed. Still
one difficulty presented itself. Like most men trained to arms,
they had an almost superstitious reverence for law, its windings
and imposing forms. The question was, what power, except the
Parliament, could grant a warrant for such an act ?

Warrant ! " repeated the master-mind which ruled them.
When the pure faith and your future liberties are in jeopardy,
is it a time to prate of warrants ? What is a warrant but a piece
of sheepskin, scribbled over by the penman's craft, to convey the
expression of insulted justice's will — a summons to answer for
crime — the appeal of the injured to those immutable laws which
require no linguist to explain, or judge to execute ? Our rights
and our good swords are our warrant."

A murmur of approbation rose from the daring, resolute men to

whom these observations were addressed. Bold themselves, they
delighted in courage in others ; and the positive triumph which
the act would give them over the vacillating Fairfax, whom they
held in suspicion, and the Parliament, who had so ungratefully
treated them, were powerful inducements. It was unanimously
agreed to.

You will defend the act ? " quietly demanded Cromwell.

With our lives — our blood," was the reply.

I, then, will see it done. I make no compact with you ; for,
with such men, oaths and vain bonds are less binding than true
words. In three days Charles Stuart shall be the prisoner of the
army — not the Parliament."

The short council soon afterwards broke up ; but, brief as it was,
it decided the fate of the monarchy for years in England.

Shall I undertake this task ? " demanded Ireton, who had
followed his intended father-in-law from the meeting ; " thou
knowest my fidelity is inseparably attached to thee."

"Say rather thy interest," replied Oliver ; "thou knowest I hate
the phraseology which schoolmen have invented to disguise their
thoughts, freshly christening things and passions. I would have
words like mirrors — made to reflect the heart, not veil it."

His companion smiled, for he could not but remember that, of
the noted personages of the time, the speaker was the most
remarkable for that peculiar phraseology which left the hearer in
doubt of his intentions, and, like a double-edged sword, cut both
ways — that his words were generally a mask used to conceal his
real motives without directly denying them — and that, although a
lover of truth, he frequently equivocated with it.

Cromwell observed the smile, and, for an instant, his quick sense
of the ridiculous overcame his usual habit of self-command. Ireton's
thoughts had been as plainly revealed to him as though he had
spoken them, and he, for once, frankly replied to them :

I combat the world with its own weapons, boy. It were the
fool's wisdom to encounter cunning with simplicity, falsehood
with truth, or treachery with loyalty, with men whose every word
is weighed. There must be a guard upon the lips where great
achievements are at stake. The best intentions must sometimes
wear a mask. "When all are armed, it were a folly to mingle with
mankind unless armed too."

Hast been reading Ignatius Loyola lately ? " demanded
Ireton, with a laugh.

"He was no fool, Papist though he was. One of his lessons I
remember at this moment."

And what was that ? "

Always to exact implicit obedience and respect from all who
ranked beneath him."

Ireton was silent ; he saw that the moment for familiarity was

past, and he wisely forbore to renew it; it was like playing with a
lion — the paw might be as soft as velvet to the touch, but it
reminded you every instant that the animal had claws.

I am not to be intrusted with this expedition, then ? " he
said, with a manner which denoted more dissatisfaction than
remonstrance .

It is beneath thee. Hast never seen the gallant stag chased in
the forest ? "

Often."

The chiefs enjoy the sport ; but when run down, the menial
performs the last office. Charles is at bay : another must wind the
mort. That is always best done which is done quietly. Wert thou
seen in this it would attract too much attention to the act, and draw
men's gaze upon me. I am content to move the puppets which
play my game, and not let the world see me pull the strings. It
is known thou art about to become my son-in-law, since Bridget's
maiden fancy has been smitten with that bear's face of thine. For
the future," he added, " ask me no more reasons for my conduct —
it is not often that I am disposed to give them."

That same evening the speaker sent for one Joyce, a cornet in
Halley's regiment. Cromwell had often noticed him for his
reckless courage, extreme daring, and the implicit obedience to the
orders of his superior officers. The fellow was not without ambition,
but formed of the metal which tyrants work their way with — an
instrument fitted for good or evil things, according to the hand
which used him. His instructions were to proceed to Hollinby
and arrest the king, whom he was to convey first to the mansion
of the Cromwell family at Hinchinbrook. A troop of horse was to
accompany him.

Thou wilt not flinch in this ? " demanded the general,

From the fire of the enemy as soon," replied the young man,
who felt elated at the confidence reposed in him. " Death nay
arrest my progress, but shall not frighten me back. I am of no
cur's breed, general, and will not belie my race."

Be prudent as thou art faithful in this thing, and thou shalt not
go unrewarded. Eyes are upon thee which watch and weigh men's
actions with no ungrateful spirit. Mount and away ! "

Saluting his superior, Joyce left the tent, and in less than an
hour started at the head of his party to Hollinby, where the unsuspecting
king was wasting in idle negotiation and delay the moments
which, employed in action, might still have saved, if not his crown
and throne, at least his life. But none are so blind as those whom
God hath doomed.

Hollinby House was a fine old baronial building of the Elizabethan
character ; in fact, the virgin queen had more than once
visited it in the progresses which she delighted to make, as much
to gratify her own inordinate vanity, by the adulation she received,

as to afford pleasure to her royal subjects. It was surrounded by
a large chase or park, well wooded, and stocked with deer ; the
ground round the house being laid out in quaint old flower gardens,
where the earth was raised in terraces, and adorned with balustrades
and statues. At the back was a fine old bowling alley, shaded by
a double row of chestnut-trees, between which the well-trimmed
sward was spread like a verdant carpet. This was the captive
monarch's usual place of resort during the morning, where he
either amused himself at bowls, or gave audience to such visitors
as were permitted to approach him ; for, although treated with
every outward mark of respect, he was strictly watched. It was
here he was indulged in the puerile vanity of exercising the
supposed hereditary gift of his race in touching for the evil.
Crowds of persons affected with the fatal leprosy attended daily at
first, but gradually diminished when they found the bounty of a
silver crown usually given to the patients was discontinued. It
is strange how soon the spirit of incredulity spread after the
alteration.

"Will your majesty condescend to play ? " demanded one of the
gentlemen of his suit, respectfully addressing Charles as he walked
in gloomy meditation under the trees, which cast a gloom almost
as lowering as his fortunes.

An impatient wave of the hand was the sole response

Perhaps the captive's thoughts and feelings were removed to a
far different scene — to France, his wife, and children ; or, in the
bitterness of regret, he compared his present state with the brilliancy
of his youth and the bright promise of his earlier manhood. His
attendants saw that he was moved, and kept at a respectful distance ;
even those who were set by the Presbyterians to watch his person
followed their example ; for he was affable under misfortune, and
never showed more real dignity of character than when he had lost
all external characteristics of the high rank he so long had occupied
in the world.

A young girl, dressed in the costume of a farmer's daughter, who
had been standing near the edge leaning on the arm of an aged
peasant, made her way through one of the gaps which the country
people had made, timidly approached the person of the king, and
knelt before him, modestly removing her kerchief, as was the
custom with those who came to be touched for the disease. She
awaited the usual ceremony. As no chaplain of the Episcopal
Church was by — and Charles acknowledged no other — he began
pronouncing the usual prayer himself.

Look at the superstitious wench ! " exclaimed Colonel Hereby,
one of the Presbyterian officers set over the king. " She seems to
believe in the mummery. Much yet has to be done before superstition
and priestcraft are rooted out of England."

Say rather kingcraft," observed his companion.

Although displeased at the ceremony, neither of the speakers felt
disposed to interfere, to prevent, or to approach to witness it ; but
moodily continued their walk.

Charles, during the prayer, had closed his eyes, for he was
devoutly impressed with a belief in the efficacy of the supposed
miraculous gift of his race. As he approached to place his unloved
hand upon her neck, he observed that the scars were merely painted,
and the apparent sores caused by artificial means. In the corner
of the girl's bodice was a letter.

From the queen, sire," whispered the girl.
Charles, recovering from his surprise, eagerly took the letter, and
concealed it in his sleeve ; as he did so, their eyes met, and, despite
disguise, he recognised the Lady of Cranfield, who had accompanied
her husband from France to accomplish her dangerous errand.
The old man upon whose arm she had been leaning was no other
than the faithful Martin.

No sooner was her purpose achieved, than she rose from her
knees, first replacing the kerchief, and walked back to her companion
without one word — without even pressing to her lips the
royal hand which loyalty and affection to her mistress prompted
her to kiss. This was perhaps the severest trial during the whole
adventure.

The king soon afterwards retired to his room to peruse the letter
he had so unexpectedly obtained. It urged him by every tie which
conjugal love could dictate to escape, and informed him of a plot
then in agitation to provide him with the means. The time was
to be that very night. During the rest of the day it was observed
that the captive was unusually melancholy and filent,

Cleverly as the lady thought she had executed her purpose, an
observance was upon her, the eye of her most relentless enemy,
who had only relaxed his pursuit on her escape from England with
the unfortunate Henrietta Maria. He had long since recovered
from the wounds he received on the night of his fall from the
walls of Exeter, and, like a restless spirit of evil, was watching the
hour and the occasion to complete the ruin he so long had planned.
The first impulse of his malignant heart was to cause her to be
instantly arrested, but prudence restrained him. The letter was
already "in the possession of the king, and he well knew that the
Presbyterians, who were so anxious to treat with him, would never
so far outrage the royal dignity as to cause his person to be searched,
and without the proof he would be powerless.

No," he muttered, ' k it was not merely to deliver a letter that
she left the sunny shores of France ; her husband, too, must be
near her. Their object, doubtless, is to rescue Charles. They will
linger round the net, and I shall catch them all in the same

springe

With these words he called for his horse, and rode to a

village a few miles distant, where Cromwell had secretly arrived

to watch the execution of the orders he had given to Joyce, and, if
necessary, either from weakness on his part or resistance from the
Presbyterians, to execute them himself. Their interview was brief,
but satisfactory to both.

That very evening, while Charles slept, the letter, which he had
not had the precaution to destroy, was cleverly abstracted from his
person : its contents not only revealed the plot, but the intended
manner of its execution. A smile lit the features of the leader of
the Independents as he read it, and he determined by one bold blow
to end the dispute between the Parliament, Charles, and the people.

Calling to him Dick of the Belt, whom gratitude had made the
most faithful of his followers, he determined to put his fidelity and
obedience to the test.

I have a duty for thee," he said, gloomily, as soon as the soldier
stood before him ; " perform it faithfully, and thou shalt return to
thy fair bride and office in Hull, before the war is ended, enriched
with worldly gifts and the consciousness of having served thy
country."

Name it, general," replied the young man, proudly ; " I hope
there is danger in it, that I may prove my gratitude and fidelity to
the cause and you."

Hast ever shot a fellow-creature ? — taken the life of a being
formed in the same scale of creation as thyself ? — arrested the heart
in its quick beatings by the cold blow of death ? "

Never — at least, not in cold blood. In battle I have done my
duty like another."

Mount and follow me. I will place thee opposite a window "
and here the speaker looked a second time at the letter — " of
Hollinby House. Thou wilt see a false sentinel betray his watch.
Stir not. Thou wilt see traitors plotting a greater traitor's escape
from justice. Draw not thy breath too loud, lest it should scare
them from their purpose. But when the window opens, and a
man appears ready to descend — then "

What then ? " demanded Dick, astonished at the agitation of
the speaker, which was visible in his trembling speech and the
heavy drops of perspiration which stood upon his forehead.

Level thy Weapon. Let thine eye be true and thy heart strong.
Strike him dead."

Dick hesitated ; the manner of Cromwell, more than the deed,
alarmed him.

Dost hesitate ? "

No, general ; but I would, if it pleasure thee, learn what crime
he has committed, and who is the man whose life must pay the
forfeit bj- my hands."

"A traitor to his country and its liberties — a perjured traitor —
England's enemy and mine."

Enough," said the soldier with a sigh, " I'll do it."

That same night three persons stood upon the little sward of grass
at the back of Hollinby House — Rupert, Herbert, and Martin.
They little thought that the life of every one of them was at the
mercy of a concealed sentinel, whose piece alternately covered
them. All three were restless and excited ; the* had no assurance
that Charles would consent to the entreaties of his queen, and
escape from the hands of his enemies ; still they were faithful to
the hope which brought them there.

Thank Heaven," whispered Rupert, " the sentinel beneath the
terrace is changed at last. Our friend is at his post."

No sooner had the relief passed on its way than the disguised
Royalist who had been placed on duty made signals with his arms
to invite them to approach ; which they carefully did.

•' Have you heard anything ? " demanded the impatient prince.

'• His majesty consents," said the gentleman, who, to serve his
king, had changed his name and rank to enlist in one of the
Presbyterian regiments. " He twice raised his hat at supper."

This was the signal agreed upon in the letter.

Presently the window was cautiously opened, and the monarch,
who had contrived to leave his chamber, appeared in the dress of
a simple officer. But he was still wavering and irresolute.

'Tis he ! " whispered a stern voice to Dick. " Now is the time."

For Heaven's sake lose not a moment, sir ! " exclaimed Rupert.
Descend at once."

Fire ! " hoarsely exclaimed Cromwell.

The hand of Dick was on the matchlock, when a female, who
had been silently watching the whole proceedings from an adjoining
copse, rushed forward and dashed aside his arm. The piece went
off, but the aim was hurtless.

Traitor ! " she shrieked, " would you slay your king ? "

The king ! " repeated the bewildered soldier. " I knew not
that — I knew not that ! "

He turned to reproach his general with the attempt to turn him
into an assassin, to cover his name with infamy. But it was too
late — Cromwell had disappeared.

The alarm created by the explosion caused the guard to return.
Charles retired, dispirited and hopeless, to his chamber. His
friends were surrounded and disarmed.

Hold ! " said a superior officer, a well-known confidant of
Cromwell's, who appeared upon the spot ; "harm not your prisoners.
To London with them ! Here is the warrant for their committal
to the Gate House."

"And the woman ? " added the subaltern, pointing to Mary.

She is my prize," said Barford, who suddenly approached.
Here is an order for her delivery to my care."

The Lady of Cranfield fainted, and was borne from the place in
the arms of her triumphant enemy.

CHAPTER XIV.

ORDERS were given for the removal of all the prisoners, with the
exception of Mary, to the prison of the Gate House in London.
The officer who commanded the party was a stern Independent,
devoted to the interests of Cromwell, whom he looked upon a? a
second Joshua sent to relieve a suffering and oppressed people.
Most of the leaders of his sect, the more worldly motive of whose
fidelity to his behests was ambition, entertained the same opinion.
They already saw in him the man destined to wield the sovereignty
of England, and elevate her place amongst nations.

The agony of Herbert when he beheld his wife in the arms of
his rival and her deadly enemy was fearful. His heart collapsed
with its agony, which was too deep for words. Tears would have
been a relief, but they were denied him.

There was another prisoner," said the officer, looking around ;
has he escaped ? "

The men searched everywhere, but no one was to be seen.

A thin, wiry old man," added their commander. " See that he
escapes not."

A second examination of the wood and shrubbery near was made,
but without success. The party for whom they searched was no
other than our old acquaintance, Martin, who, with an agility far
beyond his years, at the very moment of the surprise had drawn
himself by an overhanging branch into a tree, from which position
he could both see and hear all that passed. Although his situation
was a painful one, he maintained it firmly, despite the cramp in
his limbs, occasioned by his being wedged between the fork of the
tree. He feared even to breathe, much more to stir, lest the
rustling of a leaf should have betrayed him.

Watch over her, angels ! " groaned Herbert, as he was torn
away by the soldiers, his eyes to the last fixed upon the inanimate
form of his young wife, who still reclined in the arms of Barford ;
protect or take her ! "

Despite his frantic struggles, he was dragged away. Many a
time in after-life was the agony of that bitter hour remembered.

Mine, mine at last ! " exclaimed Barford, swaying with an
inflamed countenance the form of his victim. " My long years of
burning agony are repaid at this hour of triumph ! The fire
within my heart will soon be quenched ! Oh, what joy it will be
to see her tears and listen to her prayers — watch the deep blushes
of her shame as I enfold her in my eager arms ! "

Laying the still prostrate burden upon a bank, he sought for
water by the neighbouring brook, which ran through the chase,
and returned to sprinkle it over her pale face and neck. Martin
took the opportunity of his absence to glide softly from his position
in the tree to the ground, and crept upon his hands and knees to a
VOL. III. p 2

clump of shrubs which were growing near. No sooner had he
ensconced himself than the ruffian returned.

She revives ! " he said ; " the light of life visits once more her
eyes ! In a few minutes she will be mine ! "

Will she ? " thought Martin to himself, as he drew a long deer-knife
from his girdle. " Not if I can prevent it."

No sooner had the consciousness of her misery and the presence
of her enemy returned, than Mary threw herself at his feet, and
besought him, by the agony of her heart, the memory of his
mother, and the fear of Heaven, to spare her weakness and respect
her honour.

Pity," she added, " pity ! "

"Ay," replied the ruffian, " such pity as you had on me when I
knelt, like a crushed worm, .at your proud feet, and you refused
me — such pity as the hungry vulture feels when the bird within
its grasp turns its eye in agony and terror. No, Mary ; this hour —
nay, this minute — ends the impatient longing of my heart. Thou
art mine ! Earth could not bribe me to forego the joy, or Heaven
deprive me of it ! "

In an instant his arms were wound round her shrinking form,
and, despite her shrieks and loathing, his lips pressed to hers.
Suddenly he felt a sharp, exquisite pain between his shoulders ;
his grasp unloosened ; and he fell with a groan upon the sward.
The knife of old Martin was sticking through his shoulder-blade.

Saved ! saved ! " cried Mary, falling on her knees in thankfulness.
" Heaven has not forsaken me ! "

True, lady," said old Martin, raising her ; " but we must not
desert ourselves. The villain's horse is standing hard by — a
powerful roan. We must put space between us and our enemies.
Every minute is an age when safety depends upon speed and
promptitude. Have you courage to mount and ride behind me ? "

Courage ! " repeated Mary, clinging to his arm ; " ay, to the
death, to escape from worse than death. Mount, old fidelity, and
away at once."

Without a word, Martin released the steed, and placed his rescued
mistress before him.

As they rode the whole of the night, sparing neither the beast
nor themselves, by daybreak they reached an inn, in a retired
situation by the roadside, and at Martin's persuasion Mary consented
to descend to partake of some refreshment. Indeed, repose
was not more necessary for her than the horse, who had gallantly
borne them at full speed from the danger of pursuit. His strength
was all but exhausted, and an hour's rest was absolutely necessary
before he could proceed with his double burden.

And whither do you propose to direct our way ? " demanded
the still agitated lady.

To Loud<*h, if you approve."

Ay, to London, to share my husband's prison — if necessary, his
scaffold ; for I know the cruel men into whose hands he has fallen
thirst for his blood. They preach mercy and justice, but they rest
upon their lips only ; they have no place in their hearts."

Have you no friends," said the faithful servitor, " where you
could find concealment for a few days till this storm blows over ? "
for he had no great desire to see his beloved charge an inmate,
although a voluntary one, of the Gate House.

Friends ! Alas ! the wretched have no friends ! Like summer
flies, they exist but when the sky is fair and prosperity smiles onus.
Let the storm come, and they disappear. Stay, stay ! " she
added, suddenly recollecting herself ; " yes, I have a friend — one
whom I have never seen, but who truly loves my husband ; he is
powerful, too, with these bad men."

How do you name him ? " asked Martin, doubtingly.

Milton, the poet — the man whose soul breathes all that is noble
in humanity or beautiful in nature. Herbert and he were friends
at college^wandered together over sunny France and classic Italy.
He has a heart pure as his fame — noble as his muse. I'll seek
him ; he will not refuse me aid in my despair. Perhaps he may
procure my husband's liberty."

I know nothing of him, lady," said the huntsman. " Poets are
not much in my way, seeing I never read any book but the Psalter
and the ' Mysteries of Venery ' in my life. Therefore I cannot
advise you. But if you think it better to remain concealed in this
quiet hostel, fortunately, we are not without the means. My
doublet is quilted with broad pieces ; and, fortunately, your dress
is not likely to excite suspicion. Alas the day ! that I should live
to see my master's daughter in a linsey gown and camlet hood,
when silks and velvets are scarcely good enough for her dainty
form."

Mary smiled at the old man's allusion to her dress. She still
retained the disguise she had worn when she contrived to deliver
the letter of Henrietta to her captive husband.

After a repose of three hours, the steed was sufficiently rested to
proceed. Paying their host, who eyed them suspiciously, Martin
particularly, they inquired the nearest road to a neighbouring town,
and, as long as the fellow stood watching them, or could perceive
them from the windows of his House, steadily pursued it ; but no
sooner had they turned the angle of the wood than Martin struck
off in an opposite direction, taking by-paths and shaded lanes,
which he well knew would conduct them in a zig-zag direction to
the point he wished to steer for.

This is not the road the host pointed out," observed Mary.

Thank Heaven it is not," replied the old man. " I have followed
the hounds too often, and am too keen a woodsman, to leave scent
or trail behind me. Our host hath a villainous face— a hang-dog

look. A discerning judge would hang him on it — a jury refuse to
take even the life of a dog upon his oath. I never meet such faces
but I mistrust them."

Ride on," sighed Mary. " Our fate is in the hands of Heaven ;
it hath been too bountiful to me to mistrust its protection longer.
My worst fear is past."

It ought to be, if six inches of my good deer-knife through his
shoulder-blade can quiet it. I never struck with more hearty goodwill
since I have been a man. "Would it had been his heart ! that
would have made all sure. As it is, he may recover."

Recover ! " repeated his listener, her pale cheek becoming yet
paler at the thought.

Ay, lady ; he hath as many lives as a cat. The tumble I gave
him from the walls of Exeter would have broken an honest
man's neck ; but he will meet with the rogue's fortune at last — the
gallows — or I am much mistaken ; a discerning eye may read it in
his face."

As the hours passed on, the fears of the fugitives gradually
diminished, and they passed the night with some degree of confidence
at a house kept by a lone widow on the outskirts of the
town through which they were compelled to pass.

The fourth day brought them safely to London, where concealment
may be easily obtained by those who have money in their
purses to pay for it.

The name of Milton was too well known, from his poetical fame
and connection with the great political leaders of the day, for our
travellers to have much difficulty in finding out his residence.
Almost the first person whom they inquired of in Charing-cross
directed them, and they made their way to a narrow street at the
back of the Abbey, in which the author of " Paradise Lost "
tenanted a suite of rooms, in order to be near the Parliament, by
whom he was employed as correspondent long before his appointment
to the post of Latin secretary. It was a quaint old house,
situated in an angle of the street — just such a spot as Contemplation
would have chosen to pore over the traditions of the past, or muse
upon the future. The apartment into which they were shown,
although plainly furnished, bore many indications of its master's
literary tastes and pursuits. Several busts in terra cotta, and
pictures, reminiscences of his visit to Italy, were upon the walls,
and books and costly manuscripts piled on the table, where mathematical
instruments, a violin, manuscript music, and a vase of
flowers were placed in artist-like confusion. A painter would have
felt a pleasure in sketching that table. The domestic — a quiet,
Puritanical-looking woman, whose unsullied wimple and linen
cuffs might have graced a Flemish picture — civilly requested them
to be seated while she informed her master of their arrival.

He must have a kind heart," said Mary, looking round the table,

"for he is fond of flowers. Where Nature's simplest tastes are
given her purer feelings accompany the gift. See," she added,
music too ! I feel that I can trust him."

Although Martin did not exactly comprehend her mode of
reasoning, and had a profound mistrust of everyone who bore the
name of Puritan, he acquiesced in her opinion. He had not the
courage to say one word which could crush the last hope to which
her heart still clung.

In a few moments the poet entered the apartment.

Milton at this period was in the prime of manhood, and possessed
that remarkable grace of person which is independent of form or
feature, but derives its source from the harmony of the mind. His
chestnut hair, parted over his lofty forehead, fell in silky waving
curls over his shoulder, and contrasted finely with his well-formed
throat, which the open Vandyke he wore displayed. He was attired ina
loose gown of mulberry-coloured camlet, through the open slashes
of which the long Holland linen sleeves, edged with point lace,
were seen. Bowing with well-bred ease — for he had mixed with
princes and the master spirits of the earth, not as an equal, but an
idol — he demanded the cause of their visit.

Hope ! " said Mary, clasping her hands, and fixing her eyes
imploringly upon him.

Hope ! " repeated the poet.

The hope that I should find thee the generous being his lips I
love have named thee ; the hope that God hath given thee a heart
to feel the misery of others — to use thy influence with cruel men
to save thy friend from death, his wife from madness. My husband
save him ! " she added, sinking on her knees, and clinging to him,
and my lips shall bless thee, my boy be taught to lisp thy name in
his first prayer. Nay, I will promise thee a greater recompense —
thine own pure heart shall bless thee! "

"Rise, madam," said the poet, struck by her manner and the
passionate energy of her language, by which he saw at once that
her peasant costume was only assumed as a disguise ; " tell me the
name of the husband whose danger thus alarms your woman's
heart, and whose fate for your sake interests mine."

Herbert, the companion of your youth — Herbert, who loves
you with a brother's love."

Herbert ! " repeated Milton, " a prisoner ! where ? "

In the Gate House."

And his crime ? "

An attempt to rescue the king. He is a Royalist, and you,"
she added, " lend the influence of your powerful genius — the
weight of your name — to aid the people's cause ; but that should
not divide your hearts, since both act but as duty prompts.
Herbert would" not abandon you "

Nor I abandon Herbert," interrupted the poet. " Lady, you

little know my heart if you deem that time can cool its friendship
or blunt its boyhood's feelings. If my influence is small with,
those who now rule England, blame not that ; you shall not
reproach my zeal. You, too, are a fugitive ? "

"Ay, from worse than death — from the bitter enemy who has
passed between me and the sunshine of my days — from Barford."
Barford ! " repeated Milton, in surprise.

Ay ; you know him not. Men think him honest, for he speaks
them fair, even while scheming to outwit them. He hath the
kindest words upon his lip even when plotting misery and shame.
His passions are the fiend's — destructive as the volcano's burning
stream ; nay, more," she continued, with a blush, " for that destroys
but life — his aims are at honour."

A flush passed over the pale brow of the listener as Mary thus
conveyed to him the nature of the danger from which she fled.
His pure and manly heart felt for her wrongs and misery, for he
loved her husband, and he mentally resolved to try all means to
procure his liberation ; nor was he altogether hopeless of success,
since, independent of his personal influence with the leaders of the
triumphant party, Cromwell he knew would hesitate to break with
him, as he feared the eloquence both of his tongue and pen.
Summoning the same domestic who had received the travellers on
their arrival, he informed her that the lady and her attendant
would be his guests for some few days, and bade her prepare
chambers for their reception.

Nay," he said, smiling at the thanks with which Mary would
have overwhelmed him, " where should you rest but with Herbert's
friends ? Besides," he added, " though my lodging is a poor one,
it is safer, lady, than many a stately pile — the poor respect it, and
e'en the powerful would pause before they offered outrage to its
inmates."

True," said Mary, gratefully, " for it is guarded by Genius and
Fame."

Without replying to her compliment but by a quiet smile,
Milton requested her to relate to him all the particulars of the
attempted escape of Charles ; how it was defeated, and the means
of her own escape. The story was soon told, all but the name of
Herbert's fellow-prisoner— even to the generous man beside her
she would not betray that the nephew of the king, the gallant
Rupert, had been the companion of his unfortunate attempt.

The point which most attracted the curiosity of her host was the
incident of the sentinel and the stern man, shrouded in a cloak,
who commanded him to fire.

"You have, indeed, been sadly tried for one so young and
gently nurtured," he observed, as she finished her nai-ration ; " but
tell me, what kind of man was he who gave directions to fire on
the unhappy king ? "

A heavy, burly person, whose slouched beaver so hid hia brow
I could not scan his features ; but his voice, I well remember that
it came from his clenched teeth like a serpent's hiss or restless
spirit's whisper. To my astonishment, the instant the alarm was
given he fled."

'Twas he ! " muttered Milton, with an expression of countenance
which denoted that he had received a painful impression. " As I
feared ! as I feared ! Ambition hath crept into his heart — the
temple is defiled — the cherubim hath fled ! "

You know him, then ? " observed Mary.

Well ; he is a man of good and evil nature, one who seeks the
right path, but crosses sloughs and unclean ways to reach it. I
must see this man ; your husband's fate depends on him. I need
not name him to you."

Let me go with you," she replied. " If he hath a heart my
misery may touch it. Friendship's voice I know is fervent ; but,
oh ! it hath not the eloquence of a wife's despair."

It would be useless," said Milton, with an accent of pity ;
with me alone he may speak freely, not before another. But tell
me, how came your project to rescue the king betrayed ? "

I have something here," said old Martin, " that may throw a
light upon that part of our unlucky work. I took it from Bars ord's
bosom after I had struck him down."

He handed a letter, spotted in several places with blood, to the
master of the house, who, after perusing it attentively, placed it in
the pocket of his doublet.

Thou hast done well, old fidelity. This letter may render good
aid to thy master's cause. Lady, deem not that I am churlish in
not doing the honours of the poor repast my house can offer ; but
if I leave you it is to serve you in the way dearest to your heart —
in working to procure the freedom of my friend."

Bless you, generous man ! " said Mary, kissing his hand ;
Heaven bless you ! "

Bowing gravely, he raised in his turn the hand of his guest to
his lips, and left the room. In the description which the Lady of
Cranfield had given of the stranger who had sought to take the life
of Charles, Milton recognised the person of Cromwell, and it confirmed
the suspicion he had long entertained that ambition was
obtaining the mastery of his better nature. The discourse which
had passed between them on the night of Hampden's funeral
returned with painful freshness to his memory. He determined
to seek him at the hour when he knew he would have left the
House, where the Independent party, since the capture of the king
out of the hands of the Presbyterians by Joyce, and the advance
of the army, which was entirely under the influence of Cromwell,
to London, assumed an arrogant position. Their leader was all-powerful
with the Parliament.

A few minutes after the above interview Milton left his quiet
home, and directed his steps towards the residence of Cromwell.
As he was one of the few who were deep in his political counsels,
and consequently intrusted with the mystery of the secret door,
he knew at all times how to obtain admission, but had to repeat
the signal twice before he could obtain access, and when admitted
failed not to observe the surprise which his visit at such an hour
occasioned.

Why, poet-dreamer," half-playfully and half-inquiringly,
exclaimed the master of the mansion, " what brings thee here ?
Has the muse been coy to thy wooing, or does aught threaten the
good cause ? "

The worst that can befall it."

How so ? " demanded Cromwell.

"Crime hath tainted it — ambition spread its hideous leprosy
round the heart of him who should direct the movement of a
people rising in their strength, and not pervert it to his evil
passions. The sword of Justice becomes an assassin's knife when
guided by private hatred or interested hands."

What meanest thou ? "

Thy attempt to slay the king ! "

Cromwell started from his chair, his dark-grey eyes flashing
beneath their bushy penthouse-lids. He felt both shame and fear
at the accusation — shame that it should have reached the ears of a
man so honoured as the poet, and fear lest it should become known;
for such an act would give the Royalist party, who were now joined
with the Presbyterians, a fearful lever to move public opinion
against him. In his heart bitterly did he curse the impatience
which had goaded him on to an attempt unworthy of his fame,
and contrary to the dictates of his judgment.

Who will believe this ? " he demanded after a pause, during
which these remarkable men surveyed each other like two gladiators
about to encounter in the arena.

If I assert it," replied the poet, with a flush of honest pride,
all men — even thy flatterers, although they veil their thoughts
and give the lie to their convictions to pleasure thee. Posterity
will believe it, for the words of truthful men can never die. Like
truth itself, they are immortal. Bury a truth beneath the sea —
pile mountains on it — the weight of waters shall not keep it down,
the mountains' pressure not impede its rising to the light of
Heaven."

The leader of the Independents remained silent.

Was it worthy of thee?" continued the speaker. "Charles,
struck by any but the hand of Justice, becomes a martyr, not a
sacrifice. The deed would corrupt our cause so fearfully that men
could not perceive the germ of truth the hideous deed concealed."

Enough, enough ! " said Cromwell. " I do repent me of the

thought. I have wrestled with it in spirit, but the man of flesh
prevailed. There are hours, John, when I grow weary of the
struggle, and think the Lord hath abandoned me — when I doubt
Him and all things."

Such is the fate of most men. Were there no struggle, where
would be the triumph ? Faith and doubt are the enemies contending
in thee. Trust to Him who hath led thee thus far ; he
will accomplish the work in His own time. Man cannot hasten
or retard His will one hour."

I do repent."

To repent is not enough. Thou must atone."

How ? " demanded Cromwell, in surprise ; " how atone ? "

By an act of mercy. Thy prisoners — the two men who planned
and all but succeeded in effecting the escape of Charles Stuart —
release them ; their crime was less than thine, since they erred, if
they erred at all, on the side of humanity."

Release them ! — impossible ! " said his hearer, doggedly. " This
very night the' affair will be brought before Parliament. I have
given notice of my intention to speak touching the perjured
monarch's breach of faith, to show what fools the commissioners
have been to trust him. How, then, can I release them ? I have
a duty to my country to perform ; I will not shrink from it."

I have a duty to Heaven, Oliver, which is still more sacred.
Here is a letter, written in thy hand, in which, as a price of his
treasons, thou gives a noble lady to the power of her enemy — a
brutal ravisher — a villain whose name would taint the holiest
cause. Shame on thy manhood and thy nature ! Born of woman,
wouldst thou dishonour her ? Man, whom God hath blessed with
children, did not the recollection of thine own fair daughter plead ?
What cause would be worth so vile a price ? "

My country's."

Say rather thy ambition's. Heaven asks no sacrifice of virtue
or of principle as a means of right. Its altar would reject it."

Thou art a stern censor."

Because I am a true one. Be just to thine own nature and thy
future fame. This thirst for the blood of Charles savours more of
the butcher than of the pontifex — of the ambitious leader than the
patriot. If he hath sinned against the people, let the people judge
him. History would then applaud the blow ; for justice would
direct it, and the outraged majesty of humanity, whose rights he
hath trampled on, be satisfied."

The man whose life thou askest is a Royalist."

But no traitor," observed Milton. " He hath done his duty as
conscience whispered him."

And his companion ? "

I know not him. But Herbert is the friend of my youth ; I
know his nature, and admire it for its truthfulness and honour.

His wife, whom thou wouldst have consigned to shame — to misery
so dark and hopeless that even the mercy of Heaven could have
left her no consolation but the grave — it was her arm which saved
thee from a crime."

Her husband, then, shall live," said Cromwell ; " be it the
proof of my repentance that I spared him. But the villain Barford
told me she was his mistress."

He lied. Mistress ! " repeated the poet ; " the wife of thy
bosom is not more pure. She is the daughter of the stout knight
of Keinton. Although I never saw her face but once, I could
swear her heart is noble ; for she hath eyes from whence her spirit
looks upon the world and scorns its sordidness."

And the interview took place this day ? "

Milton was silent.

At thy own house ? " continued the speaker ; " nay, I doubt
not but she still remains an inmate with thee. Well, I seek not to
pry into thy secret ; nor do I love thee less that thou hast rebuked
me — shown me my heart as in a mirror, where I have read my
black defect."

Taking up a blank sheet of paper, he wrote an order to the officer
commanding the party of soldiers at the Gate House for the liberation
of the Lord of Cranfield and the gentleman imprisoned with
him, whom he either did not or affected not to know. Added toit
was a safe-conduct for five days, to enable them to leave the
kingdom.

Art thou satisfied ? " he demanded, as he handed the paper to
his visitor.

And that letter ? "

In an instant it was consumed in the flame of the lamp burning
on the table.

Fare thee well ! " said Milton ; " thou hast half-redeemed thy
error."

Fast as the darkness of the night permitted, the poet made his
way to the Gate House prison, where Herbert and Prince Rupert
were confined. The latter, although recognised by many Cavaliers
who were prisoners like himself, had not been betrayed. Not one,
to save himself, had whispered his name.

On the officer presenting them to Milton, despite his disguise, he
knew the illustrious captive at a glance, for he had met him frequently
on the Continent as well as in England.

'Tis strange," said the officer, eying the signature to the order
of release, which, had it been presented by a person less known
than the bearer of it, he would at once have suspected to have been
forged ; " the general's commands were most strict touching these
prisoners, and now comes a release."

"More," said Milton showing the second paper, "a safe-conduct
for five days to quit the realm. Are you satisfied ? "

Why, yes ; but had anyone but yourself been the bearer of it,
Master Milton, I almost think I should have questioned it, although
the signature is certainly the general's. I could swear to the ' ; '
the ' Cr ' looks suspicious."

You dispute it, then ? "

I dispute nothing. Write me a receipt that you delivered the
order to me, and received these men. If there be anything wrong
in the affair, you and the general must settle it."

Milton wrote the required receipt, and after embracing Herbert,
led him and his companion from the prison. No sooner had they
passed the guards than his friend grasped his hand; a question he
feared to ask was on his tongue, but despair and emotion held it
back. At last he faltered the name of Mary.

Is safe quite safe, beneath my roof."

"Thank Heaven!" exclaimed Herbert clasping his hands in
passionate gratitude ; " true-hearted friend, whom the world's
dissensions cannot turn from pity and misfortune ! Under your
roof — the shade of genius and virtue ! Then she is safe, safe as in
God's own temple What villainy would dare assail her there ?
But tell me," he added " how did she escape the ruffian who — my
heart sickens as I name him."

By the aid of an old servitor — Martin, I think she named him."

God bless him for that act ; faithful, good old man ! "

It was only by the quiet deference with which Milton treated
his companion that he gave the slightest indication of knowing
how illustrious was the guest he was about to entertain.

As they reached the door of his humble abode the poet paused.

Joy hath its pains, Herbert," he said " as well as grief. Your
sudden, unexpected presence may disturb the reason of your wife.
I must prepare her."

She is ill then," said her husband, his former fears returning ;
perhaps dying ! Oh ! let me know the truth ! "

111, certainly ; but, believe me, I saw no symptoms of death.
Fatigue both of body and spirit she hath endured ; but, trust me,
Herbert, no other wrong. Her defender's arm was to swift,
and the blow too surely struck, to permit the villain to complete his
purpose."

The quiet pressure of the hand indicated how heavy a weight
the speaker's words removed from the anxious husband's heart.

Mary and Martin were seated in the room where the poet left
them when Milton returned. The repast was untouched before
her — her heart was too full to eat — a little wine alone had passed
her lips, and her eyes were dimmed with tears. They suddenly
brightened, however, as she gazed upon the handsome countenance
of her kind host. Despite his wish to appear calm, there was a
cheerful expression, a sweet content in his placid features, such as
the consciousness of a good act cannot fail to give.

; Speak ! " she exclaimed. " One word — is there hope ? "

"There is."

Oh ! thank Heaven ! my child — my boy will not be left without
a father! my heart will not be condemned to loneliness worse than
the grave ! Have you seen Herbert ? "

I have seen him."

Is he ill — wounded — despairing ? Does he know that I am safe
under your generous care ? "

He does ; and I did think that could you bear the interview,
you in a few days, perhaps hours, might see him too."

Fear not," said the excited Mary. " I will be firm, quite firm.
His prison will have no terror for me. You cannot tell how strong
my heart is. It may break with grief, but not with joy. Let me
see him to-night, to know that he lives — to feel that he lives ! Oh,
take me to him ! "

Herbert, who was standing at the door with the prince, heard
her voice, and unable longer to control his emotion, and the
impatient yearning of his heart, rushed along the passage towards
the apartment.

It is his step," she cried, as soon as she heard it. " My heart
hath listened to its echo too often to be deceived. Herbert —
husband ! "

The next moment saw them folded in each other's arms. Martin
wept for joy, and inwardly acknowledged that even a Puritan might
be worthy of respect. Milton looked on and smiled ; his heart
experienced that blissful sensation which the consciousness of a
good action imparts. Happy were the hours of the remaining
portion of the night. The next day Herbert and his wife departed
for France. It was a point on which Rupert was peremptory.
"While a hope remained of saving his royal uncle, nothing, he
declared, should induce him to quit England ; but he nobly refused
to involve his companion any further in the risk of his adventures.

The removal of Charles to Carisbrook Castle, and his being
brought to London previous to his trial, are events too well known
to need recording here. The party of the Independents triumphed
in the Parliament, and preparations were made in Westminster
Hall for the judging of the king. When men heard the news, they
doubted the evidence of their ears — the boldness of the step
appalled them. Many said that they would never dare to proceed
to extremities with their monarch. They little knew the resolution
of those who were now the masters of his destiny.

The space before Westminster Hall on the first morning of the
trial was crowded with citizens — men with pale faces and anxious
eyes — waiting the royal captive's sad approach, as of a victim led
to sacrifice.

The procession at last appeared. Charles walked in the midst
of his guards with an air as cold and stately as in the days of his

power, when the multitude ran cheering before him. Now how
changed ! A group of infuriated soldiers and sullen fanatics
accompanied the guard, calling for vengeance and imprecating
curses on his uncrowned head. Close to the mob four or five
gentlemen might be seen, whose looks of indignation spoke their
sympathy.

Heaven, what a scene is this ! " observed one, who seemed to be
their leader.

Traitors ! " muttered another between his teeth, as the crowd
pressed near him.

As the fallen monarch passed he caught their eye, and recognised
in the first speaker his gallant nephew, Rupert. Under pretence
of wiping his beard, he gently inclined his head.

At this moment a low ruffian, more daring than the others, raised
a handful of mud and cast it in the captive's face. A loud hiss
burst from the crowd ; even the Puritans were indignant. The
fellow, who had expected applause for his brutality, slunk away.
The king calmly wiped his face with his kerchief, and passed on.

Follow the villain," whispered Rupert to his companion. " If
I die for it that outrage shall not pass unavenged ! "

The man had not withdrawn far from the crowd before he was
seized by two of the Cavaliers, and dragged under the archway of
a mansion near, the gates of which were instantly closed. As the
eyes of the mob were all directed towards the king, the action
passed unperceived, and his cries were unheard.

Dog ! " said Rupert, " what hast thou done ? "

Mercy ! " sighed the fellow.

Thou hast raised thy hand against the anointed one of God
outraged thy monarch in his misfortune ! Hadst thou as many
lives as crimes, for this thou shalt die ! "

Mercy ! " again exclaimed the man.

My only regret is," added the prince, " that noble gentlemen
must stain their swords ; thou art fit only for the hangman's hands ;
but since it must be, I will set the example : so perish all who
outrage misfortune ! "

With these words the speaker plunged his weapon into the heart
of the callous ruffian ; the rest of the Cavaliers, following his
example, drew their swords, and his body was quickly pierced
with wounds. Writhing like a bruised reptile, the wretch yelled
forth his soul in one deep cry of agony and despair. The body
was buried in the courtyard where it fell.

Come, gentlemen," said the prince, sheathing his weapon, " let
us on to see the issue of this tragedy. If we cannot save, we may,
perchance, avenge our monarch."

The gates of the mansion were once more opened, and the party
directed their steps towards Westminster Hall.

CHAPTER XV.

THE place appointed for the trial of King Charles was the site of
the old courts of Chancery, at the upper end of "Westminster Hall,
which was divided by strong barriers placed across it. The Gothic
portals, soon after the arrival of the prisoner, were opened to the
people, who assembled in immense crowds to witness the unusual
proceeding. Everywhere, within the hall and without, were
soldiers under arms — every avenue was guarded by the stern
Independents, who thirsted for his blood as the seal of their
triumph. The king was brought in a sedan chair to the bar, where
a chair, covered with velvet, was placed for him. He looked sternly
upon the court and the people in the galleries on each side of him,
and sat down without moving his hat. His judges returned his
severe glances, and also remained covered. Upon calling over
their names, sixty of the commissioners answered. Bradshaw, as
president of the court, informed the prisoner why he was brought
before them :

For war made on the people, to deprive them of those liberties
which are their just inheritance ; for having levied taxes upon their
goods without the consent of Parliament, the only lawful authority
through which the nation can be taxed ; for bloodshed, and treason
to the people."

Treason ! " repeated Charles, with a contemptuous smile, which
Bradshaw paid no attention to, except by ordering Coke, the
solicitor of the Commonwealth, to read the accusation at full.

The lawyer rose, and was about to speak, when Charles held up
his cane, and touched him two or three times with it on the
shoulder. In doing so, the gold head dropped off, and rolled to
the feet of Cromwell. All present regarded it as an omen of ill-fortune
to the king, and a presage of future greatness to the daring
man whose hand was already on the sceptre. Even Charles was
struck by the incident, and instead of the speech which he had
intended to deliver, he merely? exclaimed :

Hold ! hold ! "

Go on," said Bradshaw, in a deep, stern voice. " We sit herein
the majesty of Justice, and no voice must be heard save hers.
The hour for the defence has not yet arrived."

No, nor the execution," whispered Ireton in the ear of his
father-in-law. "Although, to judge from the president's manner,
they are not far distant."

He is a man who tampers not with his convictions," replied
Oliver.

No, nor his conscience, for fear of disturbing it," muttered
Ireton to himself, for he was too politic to breathe such a thought
aloud.

He bears it bravely," said Cromwell, fixing his eyes upon the
captive monarch, who returned his glance with one so frozen, so
cold, yet full of dignity, that the rough soldier was awed and
moved by it.

Will he bear it as well upon the scaffold ? " demanded one of
his colleagues, who overheard the observation.

That we shall see. His death, if I read mankind aright, will
redeem his life — errors, broken faith, and perjuries. But hush !
Coke is about to speak."

My lord," began the solicitor of the Commonwealth, addressing
himself to Bradshaw, " I am come to charge Charles Stuart, king
of England, with high treason and misdemeanour, and I desire
that the charge may be read."

Coke then delivered the charge to the clerk, who began to read
it, when the king again cried out, " Hold ! hold ! " — but, by order
of the stern president, the clerk went on, and the prisoner resumed
his seat, looking sometimes on the court, sometimes on the galleries,
which were filled with ladies, casting his eyes round with a countenance
not at all moved, till the words " that the said Charles
Stuart be adjudged to be a tyrant and a traitor" were read, at
which he laughed scornfully, as he sat, in the face of the court.

When the long charge was finished, taxing the king with the
whole of Che civil war, with the death of thousands of the free
people of the nation, with divisions within the land, and invasion
from foreign parts, waste of the public treasury, spoliation and
desolation of the country, the lord president told the prisoner that
the court expected his answer.

Charles replied, with great dignity and clearness :

By what authority am I brought here ? and on what pretence ?
Not long since I was at the Isle of Wight, in treaty with both
Houses of Parliament for an honourable peace, which I entered
into with as much good faith as any person in the world, when I
was dragged away. Remember that I am your lawful king,
anointed by God, through His minister, to reign and govern you.
Show me," he added, " by what lawful authority I am seated here,
and you shall hear more of me."

By the authority of th people of England," coarsely answered
Bradshaw, " whose elected king you were."

Elected ! " repeated Charles ; " England has been an hereditary
kingdom for a thousand years. I stand on this more for the liberty
of my people than any of my pretended judges."

How you have managed your trust, sire, is well known. As for
our authority to judge you, we are satisfied with it : we derive it
from God and the people ; to them alone we are answerable. The
court expects you to answer ; its purpose is to adjourn to Monday
next, when it will listen to your defence."

"Defence ! " repeated Charles, with a smile; "you should not
VOL. III. Q 2

mock, sir, while you murder ; the butcher should do his office
seriously."

Remove your prisoner ! " shouted Bradshaw to the guard, for
the words of the captive had stung him, and he changed colour.

Well, sir," said the king, pointing to the sword of Justice which
was placed upon the table before the president, " I neither fear
that nor you ; both are mockeries, which time will judge."

The monarch was removed from the hall to the house of Sir
Robert Cotton, and from thence, when the crowd had dispersed,
back to St. James's Palace. The High Court adjourned and kept
a fast at Whitehall, where they had much praying and preaching.

On Monday, the 22nd of January, in the afternoon, Charles was
led back to Westminster Hall. As soon as he Alas at the bar, Coke
rose and said :

I did at the last court exhibit a charge of high treason and other
crimes against the prisoner in the name of the people of England.
Instead of answering, he did dispute the authority of this High
Court. I m<*rve, on behalf of the kingdom of England, that the
prisoner may be directed to make a positive answer by way of
confession or negation ; and that if he refuse so to do, the charge
be taken pro confesso, and the court proceed to justice."

Then Bradshaw told the prisoner that the court was fully satisfied
with its own authority, and did not expect that he should plead
guilty or not guilty. Charles repeated that he still questioned the
legality of this court; that a king could not be tried by any jurisdiction
upon earth ; but that it was not for himself alone that he
resisted, but for the liberty of the people of England, which was
dearer to him than to his judges. He was going on in this strain,
talking of the lives, liberties, and estates of his people, when
Bradshaw interrupted him by telling him that he, as a prisoner,
and charged as a high delinquent, could not be suffered any longer
to enter into argument and dispute concerning that court's authority.
Charles replied that, though he knew not the forms of law, he
knew law and reason : that he knew as much law as any gentleman
in England, and was therefore pleading for the liberties of the
people more than his judges were doing. He again went on to
deny the legality of the court, and Bradshaw again interrupted
him ; and this was repeated many times. At last the president
ordered the Sergeant-at-Arms to remove the prisoner from the
bar.

Well, sir," exclaimed Charles, " remember that the king is not
suffered to give in his reasons for the liberty and freedom of all
his subjects."

Sir," replied Bradshaw, " how great a friend you have been
to the laws and liberties of the people, let all England and the
world judge."

Charles, exclaiming " Well, sir," was guarded forth to Sir Robert

Cotton's house. The court then adjourned to the Painted Chamber,
on Tuesday, at twelve o'clock.

At the appointed time sixty-three commissioners met in close
conference in the Painted Chamber, and there resolved that Bradshaw
should acquaint the king that if he continued contumacious
he should have no further time. This done, the court once more
adjourned to Westminster Hall, and the king was brought in with
his accustomed guard. No sooner was Charles seated, than Coke
again craved judgment, censuring the prisoner for disputing the
authority of the court, and the supreme jurisdiction of the House
of Commons.

Sir," said Bradshaw, " you are to give your positive and final
answer whether you are guilty or not of these treasons."

"When I was here yesterday, I did desire to speak for the
liberties of the people ; I now desire to know whether I am permitted
to speak freely or not."

When you have pleaded."

Pleaded ! " replied Charles ; " to whom am I to plead ? I am
your king — bound to uphold justice, to uphold the laws. Therefore,
until I know that all these proceedings are not against the
fundamental laws of the kingdom, I can put in no particular
answer ; and, if you will give me time, I will show the reasons
why I cannot do it."

Clerk, do your duty," said the president.

The officer once more read the accusation, and called upon the
king to reply to it by pleading guilty or not guilty to the
charge.

I neither can nor will acknowledge the authority of the present
court."

Is that your answer ? "

I have no other."

Then, sire," said Bradshaw, " I must tell you that you have
insulted the court — put an affront on it. How far you have preserved
the liberties of the people, about which you prate so much,
your actions have shown ; for you have written them in bloody
characters throughout the kingdom. But, sire, you know the
pleasure of the court. Clerk, draw the default ; and, gentlemen,
remove the prisoner."

As early as the 17th of January the Rump had been informed
by letters from Scotland that the Parliament of that country,
nemine contradicente, did dissent from the proceedings of the
Parliament of England, both in the trial of the king and the change
in the form of government ; but they did not expect any active
opposition on the part of the Scotch commissioners to their proceedings.
In this, however, they were disappointed ; and at the
adjournment of the pretended High Court of Justice, the Earl of
Lothian and Sir John Merely, who were in London for the purpose

of treating with Charles, demanded an audience. Bradshaw received
them in the presence of his brother judges.

The Scotch commissioners bowed gravely.

Your pleasure, my good lords ? " demanded Bradshaw.

The earl drew from his pocket a paper, sealed with the broad
seal of Scotland, and began reading. It was the solemn protests
of the nation and both Houses of Parliament against the late change
in the Government, and the bringing of the king to trial.

We protest against it," continued the reader, " in the name of
the people of Scotland, who have not been consulted in this matter,
in the name of the country whose natural king he is, and in the
name even of the people of England."

"They," interrupted Bradshaw, "have spoken through their
representatives."

But Scotland has not spoken."

"She has been paid through her representatives. When the
Scottish nation gave up Charles to the English army for a sum of
money, they lost all moral right to interfere further in his fate."

Dare you maintain this ? " demanded Lothian, blushing deeply;
for he felt the reproach upon the honour of his country.

With my sword," said the speaker, who was no other than
Cromwell. " Not in a sinful contest with man to man, but on the
red plains where liberty is lost and won, where a people rise in
their strength or truckle in their baseness. I repeat, Scotland has
had her price. Iscariot should be mute."

A low murmur of approval broke from the commissioners of
England at this spirited reply. It was not often that Cromwell
spoke ; but when he did, his words made an impression, for they
were struck from him by deep thoughts or passion. The mortified
Scots withdrew. On the 24th and 25th of January, the fourth and
fifth days of the trial, the court sat in the Painted Chamber hearing
witnesses, having determined that, although the king refused to
plead, they would proceed to the examination of witnesses, ex
abundance, or in other words, only for the satisfaction of themselves.


On the sixth day the commissioners were engaged in preparing
the sentence, it having been determined that the king's condemnation
should extend even to death. A question was agitated as to
his deposition and deprivation, previously to execution, but it was
postponed ; and the sentence, with a blank for the manner of the
death, was drawn up by Ireton, Harrison, Harry Martin, Saye,
Lisle, and Love, and ordered to be engrossed.

On the *27th, the last day of the unl a awful Kfr wfe memorable trial,
the High Court of Justice sat, for the last time, in Westminster
Hall, which was crowded by the citizens, whose anxious countenances
showed how deeply they felt the position in which their
monarch was placed. But all expression of feeling, unless by look,

was checked by the ferocious soldiery, who, on each appearance
of the captive, roared out, " Justice ! Execution ! Justice !"

The lord president of the court, who had hitherto worn plain
black, was robed in scarlet, and most of the commissioners were
in their best habit." After the calling of the court the king came
in, as was his wont, with his hat on ; and as he passed up the hall
a loud cry was heard of "Justice! justice! Execution! execution
! " " This," says Whitelock, " was made by some soldiers,
and others of the rabble."

One of the soldiers upon guard, moved by a better feeling, said,
God bless you, sire ! "

Charles thanked him ; but an officer struck the poor man with
his cane.

Methinks," said Charles, " the punishment exceeds the offence."

Bradshaw's scarlet robe, and the solemn aspect of the whole
court, convinced the king that this would be his last appearance on
that stage. The natural love of life seems to have shaken his
firmness and constancy, and as soon as he was at the bar he
earnestly desired to be heard. Bradshaw told him that he should
be heard in his turn, but that he must hear the court first. Charles
returned still more eagerly to his prayer for a first hearing, urging
repeatedly that hasty judgment was not so soon recalled. Bradshaw
repeated that he should be heard before judgment was given, and
then remarked how he had refused to make answer to the charge
brought against him in the name of the people of England. Here
a female voice cried aloud, " No, not half the people." The voice
was supposed to proceed from Lady Fairfax, the Presbyterian wife
of the lord-general, who still kept aloof, doing nothing; but it was
soon silenced, and the president continued his speech, which ended
in assuring the king that, if he had anything to say in defence of
himself concerning the matter charged, the court would hear him.

Charles then said : " I must tell you that this many a day all
things have been taken away from me, but that I call more dear
to me than my life, which is my conscience and honour ; and if I
had a respect to my life more than to the peace of the kingdom
and the liberty of the subject, certainly I should have made a
particular defence ; for by that, at leastwise, I might have delayed
an ugly sentence, which I perceive will pass upon me. I conceive
that a hasty sentence once passed may sooner be repented of than
recalled; and truly the desire I have for the peace of the kingdom
and the liberty of the subject, more than my own particular ends,
makes me now at least desire, before sentence be given, that I maybe
heard in the Painted Chamber before the Lords and Commons.
I am sure what I have to say is well worth the hearing."

Bradshaw told him that all this was but a further declining of
the jurisdiction of the court, and sternly refused his prayer for a
hearing in the Painted Chamber, which is generally, though

perhaps very incorrectly, supposed to have related to a proposal
for abdicating in favour of his eldest son. But one of the commissioners
on the bench, John Downes, a citizen of London, after
saying repeatedly to those who sat near him, " Have we hearts of
stone ? Are we men ? " rose and said in a trembling voice, " My
lord, I am not satisfied to give my consent to this sentence. I
have reasons to offer against it. I desire the court may adjourn
to hear me." And the court adjourned in some disorder.

After half an hour's absence they all returned to their places,
and that, too, with a unanimous resolution to send the king to
the block. Bradshaw cried out, " Sergeant-at-Arms, send for your
prisoner"; and Charles, who had passed the time in solemn conference
with Bishop Juxon, returned to his seat at the bar.

Sire," said Bradshaw, addressing him, " you were pleased to
make a motion for the propounding of somewhat to the Lords and
Commons for the peace of this kingdom. Sire, you did in effect
receive an answer before the court adjourned. Sire, the return I
have to you from the court is this : — that they have been too much
delayed by you already."

After some more discourse to the same effect, Bradshaw was
silent ; and then the king, saying that he did not deny the power
they had, that he knew they had quite power enough, again
implored to be heard by the Lords and Commons in the Painted
Chamber. Bradshaw again refused in the name of the whole
court, and proceeded to deliver a long and bitter speech in justification
of their sentence. He told the fallen king that the law was
his superior, and that he ought to have ruled according to the law ;
that as the law was diis superior, so there was something that was
superior to the law, and that was the people of England, the parent
and author of the law. It was in their name the court was about
to sentence him as a tyrant, traitor, and murderer.

Charles started from his chair, and hurriedly exclaimed:

I desire one word — only one word — before you give sentence."

The president hesitated for a moment, and a moment only. His
eye had encountered the glance of Cromwell, and he knew his task.

Your time is past. You have disowned the jurisdiction of the
court, and the court now refuses to hear you" ; then raising his
voice, he added, " what sentence the law affirms to a tyrant, a
murderer, and a traitor, that sentence you are now to bear."

But I must speak ! "

Not before sentence," said Ireton.

Charles Stuart, for treason to the people, oppression, and
murder, the sentence of this court is, that your head be struck from
your body, a warning to all future tyrants."

Now may I speak ? " demanded the king, in a state of great
excitement.

Not after sentence," replied Bradshaw, with a cold smile.

By your favour "

Remove the prisoner."

The sentence I " stammered Charles, his fortitude for an
instant giving way ; " I demand to be heard."

On a sign from the president, several of the guard laid their
hands upon the person of the captive to remove him from his
chair. Charles, whose sense of personal dignity revolted more at
the idea of outrage than death, instantly gave up the attempt of
addressing the court, merely observing that if he, the king, was
denied a hearing, what justice could the people expect ?

Lead on, gentlemen," he added, turning to the officers who
commanded the guard ; " I am ready."

As he passed through the hall to the chair in which he was to be
conveyed to St. James's, the soldiers set up a cry of " Justice !
execution ! "

The Presbyterian party, although stunned by the news of the
king's condemnation, were not entirely crushed. Their great error
had been in hastening out of the kingdom their Scotch allies, who,
knit with them in bond of faith, and entertaining the same moderate
views, might have proved powerful allies in the event of a demonstration
to save the unhappy Charles. The leader of the English
Presbyterians, Fairfax, was a man of upright intentions, but
vacillating. He seldom did a great act — still more rarely committed
a foolish one. The leading characteristic of his mind was
caution ; he longed to temporise to the last. This weakness of the
heart, when promptitude and decision were most necessary, caused
the final destruction of his party at a later period. Of a far
different temperament was his wife, a type of the high-spirited
English dame, whose heart was open as her hand ; her tongue,
when indignation prompted, still more open than either. Bitterly
did she regret her husband's weakness ; although no fanatic herself,
she respected his religious scruples ; but his indecision and want
of character, if they had not weakened her love, mortified and
humbled her.

Lady Fairfax was pacing the floor of her cabinet, pondering on
the event of the day and secretly chafing at the supineness and
inactivity of her husband, whose vacillation was a source of bitter
regret to her. Although, like her lord, a Presbyterian, she was no
fanatic ; the instinct of her sex, that exquisite perception of the
good and beautiful which God has given them to guide them
through the perilous mazes of passion and sensibility, revolted at
the foafikfiry of trial she had witnessed, and jUu intuition about to
be perpetrated in the name of Justice.

He shall not die," she exclaimed, " if woman's wit or woman's
courage can save him ! The tyranny of a sect, England has yet to
learn, is more terrible than the despotism of a crown. How many
weeping mothers have lived to curse the hour when England's

sons first drew the sword in this unnatural strife ! If all my
influence with Fairfax is not lost — if I have still a hold upon his
heart — I'll rouse him from this dream of his — break the fetters
which enthral his nature. He must awake — he must arouse," she
added, " or from henceforth our hearts and minds are twain."

The few natural tears which had fallen during this reverie were
hastily dashed aside when she heard a gentle knock at the door of
the apartment.

Come in ! " she exclaimed, catching up a book, and seating
herself upon a pile of cushions, that whoever it were might think
she had been reading ; for she was of a proud nature, and hated
that even those nearest her heart should ever discover its weakness :
and yet such weakness honoured her.

Martha, an orphan child of her deceased chaplain, who attended
Lady Fairfax more from love than duty — and yet she owed her
both — entered, with a timid step, into the cabinet ; for it was an
understood thing that, when her mistress had once retired thither,
she was not to be intruded on.

Is it you, Martha ? " exclaimed the lady, in a tone of voice
slightly marked by surprise.

Pray forgive me, madam, but I could not resist."

I am not angry," said her mistress, gravely, yet kindly ; " for I
am sure the reason will justify the breach of my orders. Tell me,
what is it ? "

There is a gentleman at the gate — I know not who he is, but I
am sure, though meanly clad, that he is noble — who demands to
speak with you. I repeated your orders ; he replied, you would bethe
first to thank me — nay, that you would regret, as long as you
lived, the occasion lost, if I refused to bring his message to you.
He added, lady — and his deep, rich voice trembled as he spoke —
that the life of more than one depended on his seeing you."

You have done rightly, Martha, very rightly ; I will see this
stranger ; the times we live in justify our departing from the usual
habits of our station. Is he young ? "

In the full prime of manhood ; to judge him from his bearing,
he has been a soldier."

You then shall attend me. Is he in the hall ? "

No, madam, I directed him to the garden-front, as less likely

to be observed there ; for I suspect " The speaker hesitated,

cast down her eyes, and was silent.

What is it you suspect ? " demanded Lady Fairfax.

I would not wrong a human being," said the girl, modestly ;
but I cannot help the suspicion that your servants, lady, are spies
upon you."

I have known that for some time, my good girl. Of all who
have eaten my bread, there is not one, yourself excepted, but
watches every word and action in the hope of betraying me. The

Independents frighten themselves with shadows — they fear my
influent e with my husband. Heaven pardon me, Martha, but I
have been so beset that at times I have suspected even you."

Not me, not me ! " exclaimed the maiden ; " the world has not
been so treacherous as to teach your good and generous heart that
lesson ? "What must you not have suffered before you could have
deemed the orphan of your bounty capable of treachery to her only
friend and benefactress ! "

It has been treacherous, but it has not made me unjust ;
treacherous in the hopes it has broken — the promises it once held
out. But enough of this," added the lady firmly ; " give me my
veil, and take one for thyself, for thou must accompany me."

Gratified by the unusual confidence, the motive for which, in
the innocence of her heart, she did not understand, Martha, with
pleased alacrity, obeyed her mistress's orders, and in a few minutes
preceded her down the staircase, which led from her own apartment
without passing through the hall where the household were assembled
for family prayer. No sooner did they reach the garden than a man
in a slouched hat and cloak advanced to meet them. The lady of
the mansion recognised him despite his disguise.

Prince Rupert," she whispered.

That unhappy man, whom ill-fortune seems to pursue — deprived
of that throne to which my birth entitled me. My evil genius
follows all I love — all who have befriended me. My royal uncle
dies because he loved and trusted the unhappy Rupert ! "

He shall not die," said her ladyship, resolutely.

Bless you, oh, bless you for that word ! It seems as if an angel
spoke it. I saw you at the trial, heard your indignant remonstrance
at their mockery. I read in the glance of your proud eye, and in
your lofty brow, that your soul was noble, and I determined to
seek you, to ask for safety."

Safety ! " repeated Lady Fairfax, with an air of astonishment
which she could not conceal. " Prince Rupert, three days before
these monsters drag his royal uncle to the scaffold, comes to a
woman and prates of safety ! Safety," she added, sternly, " lies inaction."


Spare your reproach, madam," said the Cavalier, proudly. " The
shelter I demand is not for myself. I should indeed have merited
reproach could I, at such a moment, have wasted a thought upon
my own worthless life. The boon I craved was for another, whose
life is of a hundred times more value than mine, and whose perils,
I regret to say, are greater."

"Is it a woman?" demanded her ladyship, with an uncertain
air ; for, like most of the Presbyterian ladies of the time, she had
certain vague ideas that the Royalists, men and women, were not
so correct as they might be in their code of morals, however pure

their loyalty.

No, lady," whispered Rupert ; " it is the son of one condemned
to die, upon whose head the towtar s who now govern England have
put a price might tempt avarice to damn itself to gain, but not
honour to tarnish its purity and lustre. The Prince of Wales seeks
shelter from the wife of his father's enemy and his."

And he shall have it," said the high-minded woman. " And
trust me, prince, treachery shall reach my heart ere it approach his.
Where is the prince ? "

Rupert gave a low whistle, and Prince Charles, whose presence
in London was more than half-suspected by the Puritans, crept
from the shrubbery. The better to conceal his person, he wore the
livery of the Earl of Denbigh. His long locks had been cut off,
and it was with difficulty that Lady Fairfax, who had frequently
discoursed with him, recognised in the uncouth figure before her
the gay and gallant Charles.

This is a sad change, prince," she whispered, when she did so.

Think not of me," sobbed the young man. " My father ! my
poor father ! "

All is not lost. There is hope," replied the lady.

Hope ! "

The Scottish Parliament have protested."

Pshaw ! " said the prince. ; ' They did it to save appearances ;
they always try to save appearances, more especially when it costs
them nothing. They pretended to arm when the head of my royal
grandmother, the unhappy Mary, was laid upon the block. It was
done to save appearances. They stipulated for the security of our
royal father's person when they sold him to his murderers — still
for the same cause. And when the sacrifice is consummated, when
monarchy is outraged in his person, they will protest again. I know
their mercenary nature ; your Scotchman always saves appearances
— he would not like to confess himself a villain, even to
himself."

"You wrong them," said Lady Fairfax, who defended them more
as Presbyterians than Scots ; " but sorrow is seldom just."

I know them," interrupted the prince bitterly " and experience
is seldom unjust."

Fortunately, the household are engaged in prayer, and your
arrival is, I trust, unsuspected. Martha," added her mistress,
turning round to her attendant, " prepare my husband's chamber —
no one will presume to enter there, it lies through mine."

It was a bold step, considering that the speaker was still a young
and beautiful woman, and her husband known for the jealous eye
with which he looked upon every compliment or attention paid
her.

The maiden was surprised, but did not presume to speak.

And now prince," resumed the lady of the mansion, " follow
that young person. I need not remind you that you are under the

roof of an honourable man, and that she is dear to me as my own
child."

Charles's reply was to kiss her hand. Martha, blushing, she knew
not why, silently returned to the house, followed by the supposed
valet of Lord Denbigh. Lady Fairfax and Rupert were left alone.

"All I could ask or expect from your nobleness is granted," said
the latter. " Madam, farewell ! Whether I live or die, it will be as
your grateful debtor ; for my charge, I am sure, is safe with you ;
they will never suspect that the prince is concealed in the house
of one of the generals of the Parliament. The world thinks he is
in France."

The speaker raised her hand to his lips, and would have saluted
it, but she interrupted him.

I return not to the house, prince."

Not ! "' repeated Rupert. " Where, then ?"

To the camp, to my husband. Although but a poor scholar, I
have not forgotten Caesar's words, that his wife must be unsuspected
— so must be the wife of Fairfax."

Suspected ? Who could doubt such purity ?"

The world, which delights in sullying, with its bare suspicions,
the best and purest. Are you too fatigued to accompany me ? "

"A soldier is never fatigued."

And are yo^i groom enough, prince, to saddle your own steed ? "

Try me."

The high-minded woman led the way to the stables, and pointing
out a strong horse which her husband sometimes rode, and a palfrey
for herself, Rupert began hastily to saddle them. The only
additional precaution he took was to envelop both his companion
and himself in two livery cloaks, which fortunately were hanging
in the offices.

"Now then, away," said Lady Fairfax as soon as they were
mounted ; " spare neither whip nor spur, nor think of me. I can
endure fatigue in such a cause. On the success of this night's work
depends the life of Charles ! "

In Heaven's name," exclaimed the enthusiastic Rupert, giving
spur to his horse, " let us away ! "

An hour after they were dashing along the open road, far from
the noise and bustle of London.

CHAPTER XVI.

In an apartment of Lockwood Hall, the Beat of Sir William
Cavendish, but now the head-quarters of Sir Thomas Fairfax, the
general and his officers were seated in council. The news of the
condemnation of the king, and the high tone assumed by their
inveterate enemies — the Independents — who now governed the
Parliament, had fallen like a thunderbolt upon them. Bitterly
did they regret their own short-sightedness in permitting the
Scotch army to withdraw from the kingdom. Allied to their
party by the ties of a common faith and political interests, united
they would have been able to march upon London, and dictate
their own terms to the Independents ; separated, the success of
such a scheme was more than doubtful.

It was some moments after he had taken the head of the council-table
before Fairfax could call up sufficient nerve to speak. He
was like a man oppressed by a hideous nightmare. His faculties
were enchained ; and he knew that they were so. Energy, hope,
and confidence in his powers were all but gone.

Gentlemen," he at last faltered, " this is a sore position in which
we are placed, between our duty to our country and the preservation
of the king. That Charles has erred and been made the tool
of a relative faction, no one who has followed the events of the
last fifteen years can deny ; but that he merits death, or that his
subjects have the right to inflict it, is a proposition so monstrous
that I feel inclined to dispute it to the death with any man. One
position we must take ; either to acquiesce in the decision of the
self-constituted judges of the king, and so become accomplices ina
judicial murder, or openly oppose it. It is for your wisdom to
enlighten me and to decide."

Not for the fate of Charles," said Colonel Pike, a staunch
Presbyterian, " but for the holy Covenant and the pure faith of
Christ, which the Independents would oppress, do I propose that
we march upon London. His death will be the signal for our
defeat — for the establishing a tyranny more despotic even than his
the tyranny of conscience."

A groan of acquiescence from the preachers who were present,
they having been invited by Fairfax to give their sentiments upon
the occasion, followed the observation of the speaker.

We are blind creatures," exclaimed Newlight, one of the most
influential of them, " willing to work out the will of the Lord, if
He would only deign to unfold it. Let us seek it then, brethren,
in prayer. To those who seek Him in the spirit He will not veil
His face ; to those who worthily implore His counsel He will not
turn a deaf ear."

With a sanctimonious gravity, which would have been ludicrous

but for the deep sincerity of the principal actors in the scene, the
rough soldiers cast themselves upon their knees, while the speaker,
in those whining accents which modern Methodism has since
rendered so familiar to us, poured out a tissue of supplications
that their ways might be directed by the finger of the Lord, their
hearts filled with His counsel, and their steps guided by His light.
At least an hour had elapsed before the preacher's want of breath
enabled the consultation to proceed.

One thing at least is certain," said Fairfax, as soon as he had
resumed his seat, " that if we advance on London the Royalists
will join us."

Amalekite ! " groaned a preacher.

Worshippers of prelacy, and the remnant of the Pope's abominations
! " added another.

But they fight well," observed a young officer who was not
quite so fanatic as the rest, " for all that ; and I question if the
Covenant has worse enemies than the Independents. The Crown,
if saved by our endeavours, must continue to rely upon them for
its chief support. For my part, I would sooner put my head under
a mitre than an Independent's sleeve."

The boldness of the observation caused a silence. There was so
much truth in it that no one ventured to reproach the speaker for
his advice. Even the preachers found their hatred so equally
balanced between prelacy and their rival sect, that it was hard to
say which they hated most. Perhaps, as the latter preponderated,
and the former was now a broken party, the Independents were
slightly the more obnoxious of the two.

Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings cometh wisdom at
last," exclaimed Newlight, whose spirit had been considerably
embittered by the rough handling which a rival preacher of the
opposite sect had lately given to one of his pamphlets in a sermon
preached before the Parliament at Westminster. " I do bethink
me of a parable."

Let us hear it, brother," said the young soldier who had been
designated as a babe and suckling, although his pointed beard and
bushy brows proved that he no longer required a wet nurse.

A pilgrim of the Lord once encountered in the desert a wounded
lion and a serpent battling with each other. The slimy snake had
coiled its long folds round the king of brutes, and was about to
crush him in its embrace, when he arrived upon the spot. It was
in his power to give the victory to either one or the other of the
combatants ; but this reflection struck him : u If I slay the serpent
I relieve the lion, which is my natural enemy ; if I destroy the
lion I expose myself to the fangs of the serpent So he prayed
and watched."

I understand thee," said Fairfax ; " Charles is the lion, our
natural enemy ? "

True," observed Sir John Moreton ; " but the lion is wounded,
while the serpent — which I take to mean the Independents —
retains its full vigour. Let us crush the serpent's head ; we can
then, if necessary, turn upon the royal brute, and chain him ere he
recovers his former strength."

My parable is understood," said Newlight ; " the Lord hath
enlightened me, and I have spoken."

The further proceedings of the council were interrupted by a
noise in the ante-chamber, occasioned by the soldier who was on
duty refusing someone permission to pass.

Who dares attempt to break our orders ? " demanded Fairfax
in an angry tone, and walking towards the door of the apartment.
The frown upon his brow changed to a look of pleasure and surprise
as he heard the voice of his wife in reply to the sentinel, urging
that she would take his breach of discipline upon herself, and
insisted upon being admitted.

Let her pass ! " he exclaimed in a loud tone ; " the wife is ever
welcome to the presence of her husband."

The next moment Lady Fairfax was in the chamber of
council.

Newlight turned aside with a loud groan, not to see the chaste
kiss which the general imprinted upon the cheek of his blushing
dame. To his narrow heart all which savoured of earthly love was
sinful. He would have reproved the mother for caressing her
sleeping babe, the child for the holy kiss with which it expresses
its love to the author of its being. It is but just to add that this
pious horror was by no means shared by the younger officers
present, most of whom envied their general the love of the
beautiful, high-spirited creature who thus suddenly had obtruded
herself before them.

And what," said Sir Thomas, who knew that some extraordinary
motive alone would have induced his wife to take so decided a step,
brings thee from the quietude of home to the bustle and tumult
of a camp ? "

Thine honour," replied the lady, meeting his gaze with a look
so full of confidence and affection, that her husband felt the tears
starting into his eyes as he encountered it.

My honour ! " he repeated ; " who dares assail it ? "

Men," she replied, " who would use thee as their tool, lead thee
blindfold to the precipice, and then scorn and deseH thee afterwards.
Charles Stuart is condemned ! "

Lady, we have heard as much," said Newlight.

Say not that you have heard it, husband ! " exclaimed the lady;
say it not, for your honour ! The king condemned, and you idle
here ! What is the Stuart's fault compared to the Independents'
treachery ? — and who gave them the right to judge him ? Know
you not that the commissioners of the Scottish Parliament have

protested against the whole proceedings, and that their protest has
been received with scorn and contumely ? "

I have heard as much."

That the king was brutally denied a hearing ? " she added.

He refused to acknowledge the jurisdiction of the court."

Do you. acknowledge it ? " she demanded ; " a court from which
every Royalist and Presbyterian was carefully excluded ; a court
whose power, if once acknowledged equal to judge a king, will
make short work with the holy Covenant, and all who have shed
their blood to support it : — a court," she added, " which commanded
its ruffian satellites to fire upon the wife of their general, because
she expressed her abhorrence of their thirst for blood and abuse of
the people's name."

The change which took place in the countenance of Fairfax on
hearing the danger which had threatened the person of his wife
was terrific. Its sleepy indifference vanished in a moment, and it
assumed an almost savage energy as he folded her passionately to
his heart.

What ! " he exclaimed, " thy life ! Would they threaten thee ?
Thank Heaven, the hour of action has not passed. Singleton," he
added, turning to the adjutant-general, "give orders to break up
the cantonments. At five in the morning we march to London."

To London ! " faltered Newlight, whose pride was hurt at the
general's peremptory manner ; " we have not yet sufficiently
debated — consulted the Lord "

The council is at an end, gentlemen," said Fairfax, whose
resolution was sustained by the spirit of his wife, and indignation
at the danger to which she had been exposed ; for, as we before
stated, he loved her passionately. " You have now only orders to
receive, not advice to give. We have been fooled, gentlemen, too
long. It is time the voice of the Presbyterians of England and
Scotland were heard in the council of the nation. Farewell. We
march at daybreak."

Yet let us consider, gentlemen," said the dissatisfied Newlight,
the step we are "

Silence ! " exclaimed the general, sternly; "no voice must now
be heard but mine. It is thine," he added, " to pray for the battle,
father ; mine to direct it. Our weapons are different ; let them not
cross each other. The Word would fall harmless against steel."

It hath crushed the proud and strong ere now," said the
preacher, bitterly, as he strode from the apartment, " and may
again."

So well was Fairfax beloved by his officers, that not a second
remonstrance was offered ; indeed, the majority of them, galled by
the high tone which the Independents had lately assumed, would
have preferred the restoration of the king, almost without conditions,
to the triumph of the obnoxious party. The orders of the
VOL. ill. R 2

general were obeyed, therefore, with alacrity. In a few minutes
the chamber of council was deserted, and the leader of the Presbyterians
left alone with his noble, high-minded wife.

Scarcely had they gone, than the soldier who had disputed her
entrance cautiously deposited his musket against the panel of the
door, and applied his ear to the keyhole to listen to their conversation.
From the excitement of their meeting, and the scene which
had just passed, they spoke in so loud a tone that he overheard
every word.

So ! " he muttered, " good ! good ! I have learnt enough to
make my peace with Cromwell, perhaps to incline him to my
vengeance. The Presbyterians march on London in order to save
the king. If I can reach it before them, they may find their
progress stayed."

You will return with me," he overheard Fairfax say to his
wife ; " I cannot bear you from my presence after what has passed."

Impossible," said the lady ; " I return to-night."

But why ? "

I have a duty to perform, and you know I never compromise
with principles."

What is it ? " demanded the husband.

You shall know that hereafter. Trust me, it were better kept
from thy knowledge now."

Another mystery," thought the soldier, as his ears greedily
sought the conversation ; " but if human cunning can ferret it out,
I will."

Yielding to the earnest entreaties of his wife, the general
reluctantly permitted her to depart ; but insisted upon sending an
escort part of the way, in order to insure her safety from the
numerous predatory bands of broken Royalists which infested the
country. The soldier who had overheard their projects was, in fact,
no other than Barford, who, on recovering from the wound which
Martin inflicted on him in defence of his yoitng mistress, had
engaged as a simple volunteer, in order to conceal himself from the
pursuit of the exasperated Royalists, the escape of the king having
been prevented entirely through his means. As he was one of the
escort' appointed to accompany Lady Fairfax and her companion on
their return to London, he resolved to seize the opportunity of
making his peace, if possible, with Cromwell, by informing him
of the determination of the Presbyterian leader and army to oppose
the execution of Charles.

Have you succeeded, lady ? " demanded the disguised Rupert,
as they once more galloped along the dark and dreary road on their
return.

I have," said his companion. " With daybreak the army
advances towards London."

Then all may vet be well."

Be cautious," observed Lady Fairfax. " See how yon trooper
rides in advance of his fellows — it may be zeal, or treacherous
design to overhear our conversation. Where great interests are at
stake, great prudence must be used."

Barford, seeing by the motion of Rupert's head that he had
turned to observe him, fell back into the ranks with his companions,
and resolved not to risk a discovery by a similar act of imprudence
during the rest of the journey.

Immediately after the sentence had been pronounced by Bradshaw
upon the unfortunate Charles, Cromwell left the Hall, and
hastened to his own private residence in Westminster. His usual
quiet manner was changed for one of feverish, nervous excitement.
The visionary sceptre which had so long eluded his grasp now
seemed within his reach, and he trembled with eagerness as he
prepared to seize it. He had not been many minutes in his study
before his son-in-law, Ireton, presented himself.

I would be alone," said Cromwell.

You will be better with society," roughly answered the soldier,
even though it be but mine. This is not a moment for the mind
to sit brooding upon morbid thoughts, hatching vipers to sting you;
but for action. The people are in a state of great excitement at the
condemnation of the king."

Let them be so.' Do they speak openly ? "

"And threateningly," added Ireton.

The less the danger," observed the shrewd leader of mankind.
The resolution that will keep is silent ; weakness alone expends
itself in empty rage. The mob will storm, and prate, and threaten,
but strike not a blow to save him. The Stuart's doom is fixed."

He bore himself nobly to the last."

Proudly, and therefore would I that he should be treated with
every indulgence due to his misfortune, every respect due to his
former state. The necessity which exacts the sacrifice does not
prevent all pity for the victim."

"Great effort will be made to save him," observed Ireton.
There is a rumour of a rising in the City."

Pshaw ! it is not from that quarter danger threatens. The lazy
citizens may prate, but they love their money-bags too well, and
their dear safety, to risk either in defence of Charles. It is not
them I fear."

Who, then ? "

The gloomy, discontented Fairfax — the man who coquets with
power as if he loved it not, e'en when he sighs to clasp it. His
wife, who rules him as such minds are ruled — through his weakness
— is at heart a Royalist."

She must be watched," said Ireton.

She is hatched" replied Cromwell. " Dost think me such a
dullard as to leave the faith of mine enemies to chance ? No ; I

have a means to read the hearts alike of friends or foes. There is
not one about whose person I have not set sure guard."

I care not," said the soldier, bluntly, " what guard you set on
me. At the worst, I may blunder, but I have nothing to conceal.
Only, father-in-law of mine, let your spies take heed ; for if I
catch one of the eavesdropping crew near me, I'll send him back
to his employer minus both tongue and ears."

Pshaw ! It is not such as thee that I suspect."

"Now, then, to business. When the signing of the death-warrant
? "

To-morrow."

And when the execution ? "

Three days afterwards."

Should the tyrant resist ? " observed Ireton.

I have bethought me, too, of that," said Cromwell, and his
countenance turned suddenly pale as he spoke. " All shall be
prepared. Get me two iron rings fixed in the planking of the
scaffold, nearest the block, and order fitting tackle. Should he
refuse to bow his haughty head to the people's justice, it shall be
dragged down like a steer's at the shambles."

His son-in-law gazed upon the speaker for a few moments in
mute surprise ; there was something so terrible in the cold precision
and horrible calculation of the arrangement, that even his
coarse nature was startled.

"By my soul, father-in-law, I believe that if the executioner-were
missing, you would find nerve enough to strike the blovv T
yourself."

Was it imputed to Judith as a crime, that to deliver Israel she
struck off the head of the tyrant Holofernes ? " demanded Cromwell,
in a gloomy tone ; for the possibility of not finding an executioner
had frequently struck him.

Not that I am aware of ; but there is this difference in the case,
Judith struck not the blow to take his vacant place."

Thinks thou," said the Puritan, who at times descended to
play the hypocrite even with himself, " that any unworthy motive
hath influenced my heart in this ? "

Tush ! tush ! " interrupted Ireton ; " we at least ought to understand
each other, for our interests are one. Without being as quick-sighted
as a hawk, I cam read as I run. Charles once dead, you
take his vacant place."

I ! " repeated Cromwell, with an imperceptible smile.

Who else ? The seat must be filled. As for this Republic,
Commonwealth, or what else the dreamers choose to term it, none
but fools believe in it. Society is shaken to its foundation — it
will require an iron hand to steady it. Like shipwrecked mariners
at sea when the gallant ship hath struck, all men's eyes are fixed
upon the only point of land in view. You are that point."

I am," said his father-in-law, " what Heaven and accident have
made me."

Their further conversation was interrupted by the arrival of the
celebrated Independent preacher, Hugh Peters, who had been
appointed by Parliament to attend the king. Although a staunch
Republican, the mild deportment of the royal captive had so Avon
upon him, that he not only forgave him his refusal to listen to his
ministry, but even promised to use his influence to allow him to
be attended by Bishop Juxon, and receive from his hands the last
consolations of religion.

As Peters not only possessed great energy of character, but vast
influence with the Independents, both Cromwell and Ireton
received him with great respect.

How fares the doomed one ? " demanded the former. " Hath
he availed himself of the grace of thy ministry to reconcile his
soul with God ? Doth he feel the weight of his past transgressions
? "

Charles Stuart will die," said the preacher, " as he hath lived —
firm in the errors of prelacy, faithful to the persecuting Church,
drunk with the blood of saints."

The fool ! " said Ireton.

At least he is sincere," replied the preacher. " He declined my
ministry, but without insult or reproach. As for his conscience, it
is either seared or peaceful. I cannot make him out, much less
presume to judge him."

Why, father," said Cromwell, eying the speaker, " the king,
it seems, hath half-converted thee. To some minds there is a spell
in royalty ; it blinds all who approach within its rays."

"The royalty I bow to, at least, is not of earth," replied Hugh.
But enough of this. I am the bearer of a captive's prayer. May
I speak ? "

Speak on."

Charles Stuart demands the consolation of his Church in his
last moments. He requires that Bishop Juxon should be permitted
to attend him."

And dost thou sanction this yearning after prelacy ? " demanded
Cromwell, eying the speaker curiously, as though he would read
his very thoughts.

The best of us are weak and erring. Search thine own heart,"
said Peters, " and there perchance thou wilt find a reply. Have
thine own purposes been ever pure and immutable ? Hast thou
never, in the dark moments of thy soul, doubted of thyself ? "

Both Cromwell and Ireton were astonished at the change which
had come over the stern spirit of Hugh Peters, who, from a violent
fanatic, animated with an intolerant persecuting spirit, had suddenly
become indulgent to the creed he hated. The approach of death
had invested Charles with a majesty more sacred in his eyes than

the royalty of birth, and he felt that it was not for clay to judge
the salvation of its fellow dust.

And dost thou demand this thing ? " said Cromwell.

Yea, pray for it," replied Peters, " as I would pray for one of
my own faith were I at my hour of trespass. Man of the sword,"
he added, "there are moments when the veils fall from the eye of
earth, and the soul, freed from its encumbrance, sees through the
eye of reason. God will not judge of creeds from their abuse, but
from the acts of those who have professed them."

Thou wilt turn prelatic soon," exclaimed Ireton, with a sneer.

Sooner than thou wilt merciful, man of blood," added the
preacher. " Is mercy, then, so strange to thee, that its words
should frighten thee, e'en from the lips of the minister of God ? "

Your demand must be addressed to the judges, or the Parliament,"
observed Oliver. " Singly I can do nothing. I have but
one voice in the decision."

But that," urged Hugh, " is powerful. But it is the affectation
of power sometimes to assume humility. Be generous to a fallen
man ; grant his request."

Be it so," said Cromwell, signing a paper. " Seek out the
prelate Juxon, since such is thy good pleasure, and let him do his
ministry. If the concession trouble the tender conscience of the
brethren, thy request touching this matter must be my justification."


So I stand justified before God," replied Hugh, taking up the
paper, " I care not for men's opinions. And now," he added, " I
have another matter touching the prisoner."

No more requests," exclaimed both Cromwell and Ireton.

It shall be a demand, then," said the preacher, firmly.

A demand ! "

Charles, as a monarch, has trampled upon the people's rights ;
as a man broken his faith ; as king and man you have the right to
punish him — but he is a father."

Well ? "

"Well ! " repeated the minister ; " know you not how sacred are
the ties — how holy the claim that name implies ? Man has no
right to break suchjiinks asunder ; he must see his children ere he
dies."

Impossible ! " said Cromwell.

He must," repeated Hugh, " or before the Parliament and the
army will I denounce the tyranny of those who punish the parent
in the man ; who, masking ambition 'neath religion, violate the
laws of nature and of God. All hearts are not like thine — of iron."

A hasty consultation followed between the two men of battle,
both of whom feared the fiery eloquence of the preacher more than
the swords of the Royalists ; for his influence amongst the soldiers
was unbounded, and, once offended, they knew that, like most

enthusiasts, he was capable of going any length to achieve his
purpose.

"We have considered this," said the future Protector, after a
pause, " and find that thou hast reason in this matter. I am a
parent myself, and feel how sacred are the ties of nature. The
children shall be sent to Zion House to take their last leave of
their unhappy father. And now," he added, " let us not part in
anger ; let there be no bitterness between us. Men who are
intrusted with worldly interests must often walk in worldly ways.
Were the hearts of mankind pure and clear of offence and treachery,
like thine, the task would be the easier."

Such ways," observed the preacher coldly, as he left the apartment,
" are not the ways of God. I will pray for thee, Oliver, for
thou hast need of support — pray that in battling with thy passions
the enemy of thy soul prevail not. Thou hast a high career
before thee ; oh, let it not be sullied at its close."

With these warning words the preacher departed. He was one
of those men who sometimes see clearly, despite themselves ; and
he had long suspected that disinterested patriotism was not the
only motive of Cromwell's actions ; and he resolved to watch him
closely.

He must be looked to," observed Ireton.

Needless," said his father-in-law. " Peters hath a heart too
pure for treachery — too simple a mind for treason to plot in.
Charles's firmness and resignation have struck him. He hath a
tender conscience, and we'll not risk refusing him the ministry he
asks. As for his request touching the children, he but forestalled
my purpose ; I had resolved on granting the parting interview
he asked."

And yet you hesitated ? "

Why, yes," continued Oliver. " Peters, like all good men, has
his weak points. His spiritual pride was flattered in my yielding
to his threat of appealing to Parliament and the army. He is one
of those who would sooner rule men's minds than persons. There
are in this dreaming world hundreds such."

That same night a private meeting was held at the speaker's
house, between the leaders of the army and the judges of the king,
to make final arrangements touching the execution.

There were at this time in London many concealed Royalists,
braving imprisonment and death, in order, if possible, to rescue
the king from his impending fate, the news of which excited in
the breasts of all but his bitter enemies, the Independents, sentiments
of disgust and terror. Few believed that Parliament would
venture to such an extremity ; but indulged in the vain hope that
at the last some arrangement would be entered into which would
save at once the nation from a crime and the life of the misguided
victim. It was not in the houses of the nobility, or the haunts of

courtiers, that the still trusting Royalists were to be found. Experience
had taught them caution, and their places of rendezvous
were generally small hostels, far from the busy haunts of trade,
kept by men devoted to the king, often of a birth which belied
their seeming calling.

In a lone house, situated in the open fields between Westminster
and Chelsea, about a dozen men were assembled drinking, to a
casual observer. They would have been taken for travellers and
mechanics, met to refresh themselves after the fatigues and journey
of the day. The awkward manner in which the host served his
guests showed that he had not long pursued his calling. A deep
gloom was upon his countenance, and, indeed, seemed to have
shadowed the features of all who were seated at the table.

They will never dare proceed to execution," observed a grey-headed
old man, whose seeming calling was that of a pedlar, for a
small pack of hardware was lying on the floor beside him. "All
England would rise against such an atrocity, and Europe would
rise against it."

All England is muzzled," replied a waggoner, in a bitter tone.
After suppressing the upper house, the traitors are prepared for
any extremity, and Europe will treat with the murderers. France
is governed by a priestly spirit ; its king lost to the cry of honour
and of chivalry. Spain is powerless. And what other Power
would dare to interfere ? "

There was a silence, for all knew that the speaker was in a position
to judge better than any of them of the politics of the courts
he named.

We must trust to ourselves, or nothing "

At this moment the door opened ; and a stranger clad in the
gabardine of a Jew, broken apparently with age, entered the
apartment. In an instant the conversation changed to topics of
trade and the state of the roads. Many impatient glances were cast
from time to time at the intruder, who sat quietly sipping his ale
at a short distance from the rest.

A thousand times in their hearts did the disguised Royalists curse
the chance which conducted him to the spot.

Come," said the host, his patience worn out at last, " it is time
to close the house. I like not late hours ; all who do not sleep here
had better settle their scores and depart."

No one stirred. The speaker thought that the Jew would have
taken the hint, but he retained his seat with the rest.

Did you hear me, friend ? " said the innkeeper.

Yes, yes," replied the intruder, in a foreign accent ; " but I
intend to sleep here too. I have made much miles, and am tired."
All my beds are full ; there is another hostel three miles
further."

Another flagon of ale, then."

I serve no more to-night."
Oh, yes you will, Sir John."

No sooner had the speaker pronounced the title of the host, who
was no other than Sir John Barlow, a devoted adherent of the king,
than half a dozen swords were drawn, and pointed at his heart.
In an instant the long beard and white hair of the pretended
Israelite dropped, and discovered the pale, handsome countenance
of Prince Rupert. He was recognised in an instant by the
guests.

Welcome, your highness!" said the waggoner, grasping him
cordially by the hand ; " this is indeed an unexpected meeting !
We thought you safe in France ! "

Not while a hope remains, my lord, of saving my royal uncle."
Pardon me," said the disguised peer ; " but here I am Peter
Rush, the waggoner."

And I," said the prince, " Moses Falk, the polish Jew."
I should rather have thought a Bohemian one," observed
the host, with a bow such as few country innkeepers are accustomed
to make."

Our readers will of course recollect that Prince Rupert was
the son of the unfortunate King of Bohemia, by the daughter
of James I.

"Gentlemen, are we all faithful to King Charles who are
assembled here ? "

All ! all ! " was the general reply.

"Then I will explain the purport of my visit," continued the
speaker. " I came to seek loyal and brave hearts, and have found
them here. Our monarch, though condemned, has still one chance
for safety. Fairfax and the Presbyterians are on their march to
London. Scotland, repenting her late treachery, are rising in arms
to rescue him. If we can but delay the fatal day, we may baffle
the traitors yet."

How delay it ? " demanded Sir John Barlow.
By an act of resolution," continued the prince. " The executioner
of London, struck with horror at the sacrilegious thought of
performing his accursed office on an anointed head, has fled from
the metropolis. A substitute has, however, been found in the
functionary of York, who is expected to arrive to-night."

He shall never reach London living," observed the waggoner.

Death to the villain ! " was the general cry of the disguised

Royalists. Rupert heard them with pleasure, and resumed his plans.

My intention is not to take the wretch's life, for his blood

would disgrace the swords of loyal gentlemen ; but to secure his

person and detain him prisoner till the fatal day is past."

But where can we detain him ? " demanded several.

Never trouble your heads where," said the host ; " only bring

him here, and I'll promise to dispose of him. Do you think an

old soldier like myself so little skilled in war as not to have
secured a retreat in case of danger ? Bring the ruffian here, and I
will answer for his safe keeping with more than my life — my
honour."

The project was discussed, and instantly agreed to. Half a dozen
of the youngest and most active of the Cavaliers agreed, at break
of day, to meet the prince, well armed, at the commencement of
the great north road, differently disguised.

Come, gentlemen," exclaimed the prince, when everything was
arranged, " one cup to the success of our enterprise before we part ! "
The glasses on the table were filled to the brim.
Here is the deliverance of King Charles ! "
Scarcely had the toast been drained before a loud knocking at
the outside door, accompanied by a volley of musketry through the
windows, announced, not only that the house was surrounded, but
the character of those assembled there was well known.

Let us not die like dogs," said Rupert, " but strike one last blow
for vengeance and King Charles ! "

The excited Royalists drew their swords, and were about to
unbar the door and rush out, when Sir John Barlow prevented
them.

There is safety," he whispered, " safety for all. Follow me."
The old soldier had long prepared himself for an emergency like
the present. The heavy rafters of the cottage were laden with
bundles of hay and straw, soaked in turpentine, pitch, and other
combustible matters reaching to the roof. Taking a brand from
the fire, he applied it, and in an instant the room was filled with
flame and smoke. " Now then, follow me," he cried.

Opening the door leading to the cellar, he rapidly descended,
followed by his guests, just as a second volley of musketry
announced that the assailants were getting impatient for their
prey.

"They fire steadily," observed the prince ; "these are Cromwell's
Ironsides."

We shall baffle them, your highness, were they twenty times
more numerous."

Yes," added the earl, " to be smothered like rats in the cellar
by the fire above."

Patience, my lord, be patient ! "

Raising a heavy stone, which apparently served as a covering to
a well, Sir John pointed out to his companions certain notches in
the shaft, by means of which they might descend, and set them
the example by proceeding first. About half-way down they came
to an iron door, which, by touching a spring, opened internally and
disclosed a passage, something like the shaft of a mine, running ina
parallel direction with the pavement above them. The lamp
which their conductor carried gave them light sufficient to pursue

%e track, which they did till they found themselves assembled ina
square vault rudely arched over with brick and stone.

At least," said the prince, " we are safe here."

From all but starvation," observed the earl. " Old soldier," he
added, " you have, I confess, constructed your fortress with marvellous
skill, but you have forgotten one most important point."

And what is that ? "

To provision it," added his friend.

"We shall not require it," said the old man, with a confident
smile. " We are nearer our deliverance than you imagine, for there
is "

A loud explosion, which shook the massive vault to its foundation,
and threw several of the fugitives upon the ground, cut short
the observation of Sir John, whose horror-stricken companions
distinctly heard the crumbling of the shaft by which they had
descended, and the falling in of the passage.

Lost ! lost ! " they exclaimed.

Nay," said their conductor, " say saved ! saved ! "

CHAPTER XVII.

The old knight who, to serve the cause of his royal master, had
so long descended to play the humble host, as soon as the shock
was over, conducted his companions to the extreme end of the
vault, where a second passage continued its sinuous windings
through the bowels of the earth, an 1 terminated under a lime-kiln
at the distance of about a quarter of a mile from the scene of the
late explosion, the effect of which, although it had considerably
shaken the damp, crumbling walls, had not caused them to fall in,
except in the first one, which conducted to the well ; had it, their
fate would have been even more dreadful than their enemies
anticipated, who returned to their master with the conviction that
the Royalists had perished in the ruins of the humble lonely
hostel.

By my faith," exclaimed the earl, " but this nest of thine has
as many windings as a warren. For what kind of vermin was this
labyrinth made, and how came you acquainted with it ? "

I discovered it by mere accident some years since. The cottage
stood upon the site of the Cistercian abbey founded by Henry Viand
demolished by his pious namesake. As for the labyrinth, as
you are pleased to term it, it was doubtless fashioned by the monks
of old."

I thought," observed one of the party, " that it was some
Papistical contrivance."

Come," whispered Rupert, with a smile, " let us not abuse

them. Whatever their motive, it has, in the hour of danger,
answered our purpose. We owe our lives to the architect, so we
will e'en speak well of him, were he Satan himself, who perhaps,
after all," he added, with a smile, " had more to do with it than
the harmless monks."

Satan ! " repeated their guide, with a look of incredulity.
Even he," resumed the prince. " In the castle of Heidelberg,
where, before my unhappy father's accession to the crown of
Bohemia, I resided, there are a hundred such — some winding
through columns, others concealed in the solid masonry ; and nota
peasant in the broad lands of the palatinate but is ready to swear
that the subterranean outlets, nay, castle and all, with the exception
of the Ritter-seal, which was erected in honour of my mother, are
the works of the prince of darkness, who is supposed to take a
peculiar interest in all that concerns our house."

I have heard my father speak of the place you name. He was
present when your royal mother entered it first a bride."

"And lived to be driven from it a fugitive," added Rupert,
dashing away a tear. " I can remember it as it were but yesterday.
The noble river — my own glorious Rhine — was red with the names
reflected from the peasant's hut and many a knightly hold. The
whole palatinate was in a blaze — enemies surrounded us on every
side. I was but a child at the time, yet the horrors of that night
live in my memory still."

By the time the subterranean travellers emerged from their
dreary road, which terminated in the deserted lime-kiln, it was
night — winter's night, with its gloom and desolation ; the wind
blew keenly and shrieked as it dashed through the trees, whose
leafless branches opposed but a feeble barrier to its passage. The
sudden change, from the close warm passage they had traversed to
the bleak night air, chilled their blood, and caused the little party
to draw their cloaks closely round them as they prepared to
brave it.

What are we to do for horses ? " whispered one. " The Ironsides
have doubtless taken ours."

Even the knight, their host, so fertile in expedients, was puzzled.
The embarrassment was a serious one, for without horses it was
impossible to carry out their enterprise of arresting the executioner
on his way to London, and so delay the fate of the unhappy Charles.

For four horses," exclaimed Rupert, with a look of desperation,
I would give at this moment ten years of my life ! "

And no very extravagant proffer either," observed the earl,
considering that without them we have none of us the chance of
living ten days. The Puritanical rascals will make short work of
us if once we fall into their hands. No hound has so keen a scent
for blood as your true fanatic."

"Whose house is that?" suddenly demanded Rupert, pointing

to a building, half-manor, half-farm, which stood upon the skirt of
the open ground, about half a mile from where they stood.

That,' 1 said the knight, " is the residence of Lilly, the astrologer;
as rank a malignant as Fairfax or Cromwell himself. Since the
Parliament sent him to Oxford and Colchester to assure the army
of the Roundheads' success, he hath done nothing but predict
disasters to the Royal cause, and, unfortunately, his predictions
have been almost invariably fulfilled. 1 '

I wonder," said the earl, " if the fellow has predicted that his
stables will be broken into and his horses carried off to-night ? "

A general laugh announced that the proposition so indirectly
made was understood, and after a few moments' brief consultation
it was decided that the party should at once proceed to the house,
and obtain what they required by peaceful means, if possible ; but
at all events to obtain them, for they felt that their own lives, as
well as the hope of saving the king's, depended upon their success.

The Royalists, separating, made their way in different directions
towards the mansion of the astrologer, which was situated on the
brow of a gently rising hill, flanked by a dark wood of mingled
pine and beech. There was something lonely and desolate in the
appearance of the house ; nothing around denoted that it was
inhabited ; all was still and silent ; the only thing which indicated
an occupant was a light which shed a sickly glare through the
large bay window of the room over the Gothic porch.

It does not seem that we shall find horses here," whispered the
earl, as soon as the party were assembled under the walnut-tree
which grew in front of the porch, and whose towering branches
rose to the height of the roof of the mansion.

Don't decide so hastily," replied the knight. " Master Lilly
is better provided than you imagine. Fame speaks of chambers
in that old house hung with tapestry from the looms of Flanders,
and pictures from the pencil of Vandyke. We all know," he added,
"the state in which he went to Colchester, when sent by the
Parliament to encourage Fairfax."

True," said Rupert, " and the luxurious charlatan is not the
man to leave London for this secluded spot on foot, or to remain
here without attendance as well as the means of returning. Search
the offices, gentlemen ; I will remain to keep watch ; but let no
attack be made till we have first compared our observations."

Drawing his cloak yet more tightly around him to protect himself
from the bitter night-wind, which kept continually moaning and
sighing like an unquiet spirit among the branches of the walnut-tree,
and shrieking like a living thing amongst the gables and
quaint old chimneys of the house, whose angular buttresses
presented a stronger resistance, the speaker remained with his eyes
fixed upon the light streaming through the window of the porch,
while his companions began to search the offices and out-houses,

which stood at a short distance from the main building. Although
a soldier and a man of the world, trained in camps, and tempered
in the hard school of adversity, the prince was not exempt from
the superstition and credulous belief of the time. Despite his
judgment and philosophy, the wild tales of his infancy and the
legends of the watch-fire and battle-field had made an impression
on his mind, and his weakness believed where his reason rejected
and denied.

Pshaw ! " he exclaimed, standing with his eyes still fixed upon
the window, " misfortune and solitude have made me superstitious.
I know the fellow is an impostor — that at the very moment he
pretends to read into futurity for others, he is ignorant of the
danger which awaits himself. And yet," he added, " I would risk
something to see at this moment how he is occupied."

The words had no sooner passed his lips than the light within
the chamber suddenly changed from the pale sickly yellow glare
to a deep red, tinged here and there with a violet hue. It fell
upon the leafless tree, so powerful were its rays, and rendered
every branch, like the limbs of a skeleton, distinctly visible. The
heart of the prince beat wildly, yet his resolution was unchanged,
and his courage strong as ever.

At any risk," he murmured, " I will see what passes in that
unholy chamber. If the ministers of hell are really at work, I do
not fear them ; God and my good conscience will protect me. If
they are merely mortal agents, I am not without friends to protector
if I fall, avenge me."

With these words the speaker slowly approached the house, and
began climbing the open stonework of the porch, which was so cut
in devices and quaint ornaments that it afforded secure footing fora
man of his light figure and active habits. By slow degrees — for
he was obliged to proceed cautiously, as one false step might have
alarmed the inmates — he contrived to reach the balcony which
surrounded the window, and hung on by the ledge ; a position
which enabled him not only to see all that passed in the interior,
but, when the inmates spoke loudly, to overhear their conversation.
In the interior of the apartment were two persons, one dressed
in a plain black velvet gown, girdled round the waist by a silver
chain, on which were enamelled the twelve signs of the Zodiac.
His features were more marked by shrewdness than intellect, and
there was an expression about the mouth which indicated the
strength of the animal passions . He was seated in a chair, listening
to his companion, a thick-set, burly-looking man, plainly dressed,
who was impatiently pacing up and down the floor of the apartment.
Upon a table covered with books, parchments, and strange-looking
instruments and chemical apparatus, were a lamp and silver chafing-dish,
the hot embers in which showed that it had been lately used.
The first of the parties we have endeavoured to describe was Lilly,

voi. m

the almanac-maker and astrologer, who was consulted both by the
Parliament and individuals, with a faith which in the present age
would seem ridiculous. The second person was Cromwell.

And you have read this truly ? " said the leader of the
Independents.

As truly," replied the astrologer, " as the stars can speak, or
human wisdom interpret them. The crown will never descend
upon the living brow of thee or any of thy race."

The traitor ! " muttered Rupert ; " the crown ! "

Cromwell paced the floor for some time in silence, then suddenly
pausing opposite the chair of the astrologer, he fixed his dark, keen,
grey eyes upon him. Lilly, however, met his gaze unmoved. He
was too well paid, and had been too well tutored in his task by the
Parliament, to shrink from carrying out the imposture. The leaders
of the Independents desired two things — the death of Charles, and
the government of the country by a species of council or consistory,
of which they should be the heads. To this latter arrangement
they well knew that the ambition of Cromwell would oppose a
barrier, and they feared his influence both with the army and the
people.

Trifle not with me," said the soldier, sternly. " Words to me
are but empty air, unless I can grasp and analyse the minds of
those who utter them. This is an essence too subtile to be held,
Give me, therefore, proof of what you have avouched ? "

Dearest thou encounter it ? " said Lilly.

Did not Saul brave the witch of Ensor to speak with the spirit
of Samuel ? Have I less courage or desire to know my fate ? "

Thou shalt see it visibly before thee ; but as those on whom
thy destiny will depend are in the flesh, they will appear as
unsubstantial visions."

Be it so," said Cromwell ; "but no juggling."

Judge for thyself," replied the astrologer. " Draw yonder
curtain."

The concealed Royalist saw, to his astonishment, as soon as the
Republican had drawn aside a heavy velvet drapery which covered
the entire end of the room, an enormous mirror, of polished steel,
extending from the floor to the ceiling.

Strike it with the pommel of your sword," said Lilly, " and
assure yourself that it is real."

Cromwell did as he was directed, and the metal returned a sharp,
clear sound ; still, as if to satisfy himself further, he turned the
huge mirror upon the hinges on which it hung, and discovered the
solid wall of stone behind. From the arrangement all confederacy
appeared impossible.

Proceed," he said, sternly.

The astrologer cast upon the burning embers in the silver
chafing-dish a handful of perfumes mixed with drugs, which cast
vol. ill. s 2

forth the same red and violet-coloured flames which first attracted
Rupert's attention. The apartment gradually became filled with a
dense smoke, which gradually dispersed, and disclosed, to the
astonishment of both the Republican and the concealed Royalist,
a scaffold hung with black — Charles, with his pale face and clear
bright eye, kneeling at the block ; Juxon and the masked executioner
were standing by. So vivid was the scene that the prince
could scarcely restrain an involuntary cry.

I see him," said Cromwell, with a shudder ; " the Stuart, with
his cold, proud eye and calm disdain ; the prelate Juxon is standing
near ; I can almost catch the whispered word of consolation, the
parting blessing. Is there no other way to assure the liberties of
England ? Must this thing be ? "

There is one alternative," replied the astrologer.

Name it."

Thou must see it," continued Lilly, at the same time casting
fresh perfumes on the chafing-dish ; " thou art one of those who
trust more to the evidence of the fallible senses than the voice of
reason or revelation. To thee the language of the stars is mute,
though science sees it plainly written, that if Charles Stuart sees
the termination of the present month, thy fate is sealed, and his
paling fortunes rise once more in the ascendant."

Tell," said Cromwell, regarding the mirror, which still remained
obscured by the dense vapour from the drugs upon the chafing-dish,
what I am about to behold."

That," said Lilly, " is beyond my skill to tell. To please thee,
to show thee thy destiny, give thee thy choice of action, I have
employed almost forbidden means. Be silent," he added ; " there
are those near us who love not the incredulity of the seeker ;
myriads of invisible eyes are gazing on us — called to the haunts
of earth by my deep spell."

Cromwell, who was naturally superstitious, remained silent, and
stood with his hand upon the pommel of his sword, watching the
mirror at the end of the room. As the mist dispersed, he saw, to
his terror and astonishment, the place of execution at Tyburn ;
crowds of exulting Royalists were standing round ; their eager eyes
fixed upon a man who, with the halter round his neck, stood ready
for execution. In the victim he recognised himself ; there was no
possible mistake as to his identity, every line of his hard features,
every hair was as faithfully portrayed as the image which the
glass renders back to him who gazes on it. The iron nerve of the
soldier was shaken.

Juggler ! " he exclaimed, " must this thing be ? I am trifled
with, played with ! Be it the work of Heaven or hell," he added,
I'll ascertain the means by which 'tis wrought."

With these words the speaker drew his sword, and rushed in a
state of fearful excitement towards the mirror. Rupert, whose

astonishment and indignation at the scene could scarcely be
repressed, saw that the instant the weapon came in contact with
the mirror it melted in the hands of the Puritan as though struck
by lightning. Cromwell staggered, and sank into the chair in
which Lilly had been previously seated.

Vain man," said the astrologer, " those thou wouldst assail are
in their very essence removed from the possibility of mortal injury.
Go wound the air, or chain the fretful sea. Thou canst as easily
accomplish these things as injure those who serve me."

Devices of Satan — snares of the evil one," said the soldier
faintly. " Like Saul, I tempted, and have fallen. What meant the
dreadful vision ? "

It means," said the charlatan, " that if Ckai'les Stuart passes the
last day of January in life, his star once more rises in the ascendant,
and thine sets for ever."

"And with it the liberties of England," exclaimed Cromwell,
recovering something like his former energy of manner ; " the
rights for which I have struggled, fought, and bled, the achieving
of which will crown my name with honour when all besides is
ashes t Thou hast shown me well. My heart is once more still —
my nerves are iron. The tyrant dies, though Fairfax battled in the
streets of London, and the false Scots had passed the Trent to save
him ! "

Wilt thou not see ? "

No," said the Puritan, interrupting the astrologer ; " I have
seen enough to test thy skill. Forewarned, forearmed ; and perhaps
the Lord will, in consideration of my weakness, forgive this
tampering with unholy things by his harassed servant. I must to
horse, and reach London ere daybreak. I offer thee not gold for
thy services," he continued, addressing Lilly ; " the Parliament
hath already been mindful of thy services. Perchance we may
meet again."

Will you not, ere you quit my poor mansion, partake of some
refreshment ?" demanded Lilly, without betraying the least disappointment
at not receiving a gift from his visitor ; " the night is
keen, and a glass of burnt wine will keep the raw air from your
lungs."

Cromwell, who felt really faint from the strong odour of the
perfumes — which possessed the property of half-stupefying those
who, without due precaution, inhaled them—accepted the proffered
hospitality, observing, as he did so, that his escort would soon
become impatient at his absence.

Lilly struck a small gong suspended by a chain over the table ;
and a servant appeared, bearing a flask and two silver goblets, which
his master took from him and placed before his guest.

Rupert, who had been a witness of the whole proceeding, was
embarrassed what to think. Possessed of an active, inquiring

mind, he was aware that science could do much towards producing,
without supernatural means, the visions he had seen. It was the
melting of Cromwell's sword which staggered him ; that he could
not comprehend. The more he reflected, the more he became
convinced that the scene he had beheld was one of those revelations
in which the laws of nature are suspended, when Heaven, for some
especial purpose, permits them to be made to man.
" Forewarned, forearmed ! " he muttered, repeating the words of
Cromwell, as he once more stood beneath the walnut-tree, awaiting
the return of his companions. " I, too, am forewarned ; and if
human courage and perseverance can baffle the regicides, I will doit
yet. Cromwell," he added, " thy star looks dim. Let me but
succeed in postponing the execution for three days more, and the
vision of Tyburn may become a reality."

At this moment his companions, who had been beating round the
out-houses and grounds, returned.

What success ? " demanded the prince. " Have you discovered
any horses ? "

Six," replied the earl!

Good ! "

And as many," added the young man, " of Cromwell's Ironsides,
ready to mount them. The leader, it seems, is somewhere
in the neighbourhood, and they are waiting to escort him back."

There," said Rupert, pointing to the house, " treason and sorcery
have held counsel together. I have both seen and heard him."

Let us fire the house," whispered the old knight.

Or wait," said the earl " till he sallies forth, and then attack
him sword in hand."

Not so," interrupted the prince. " Remember, gentlemen, we
have a duty still more pressing now in hand. Our first care must
be to procure horses. Where are those you named ? "

Picketed under a tree, close to a kind of lodge, where the
soldiers are praying and singing psalms ; for they like not the
neighbourhood of Lilly's mansion, and blame their general for
tempting Heaven by visiting him. I heard one of the canting
rogues," continued the speaker, "say something about a witch at
Ensor and one Saul, but did not comprehend him, at which the
rest of the Roundheads shook their heads and groaned."

A smile passed over the pale features of Rupert as he caught the
eye of the earl. There was nothing uncommon in the ignorance
of the young man, who was a gentleman of good family in Dorset-shire.
On hawking he was an excellent authority; but of divinity
he knew as little as of the occult sciences. Puritanism, unfortunately,
had brought religion into disrepute amongst the younger
Royalists, who frequently affected an ignorance and disdain of such
matters, to show their contempt for their enemies.

How many horses did you say there were ?" demanded Rupert.

Six, your highness."

Let six of ns, then, make the attempt, the rest return to the
lime-kiln, and three remain concealed till the search is past, then
make their way to London."

But how are we to decide," demanded the knight, " who are to
go, and who remain ? "

Easily," said the prince. " As the undertaking the arrest, and
concealment of the executioner, is the more dangerous expedition of
the two, let the youngest six of us attempt it ; the rest, without the
least danger, can lie hid till the soldiers have departed."

This arrangement was finally agreed upon, and the Royalists
embraced and separated with the sad feelings of men who parted,
probably, in this world never to meet again.

The lodge in which the Ironsides were seated, waiting the
arrival of their leader, was a low, half-ruined building, situated in
the centre of a cluster of trees, which screened it on every side.
The horses were picketed on a green sward directly facing the
half-open door. The Puritans were seated at a rough oaken table,
on which were several bright pewter flagons of ale and other
creature comforts.

Josiah Hakabut, a steady Independent imbued with the fanatical
doctrine of his sect, was holding forth to his companions on the
sinfulness of tempting Providence by their leader's visiting a manlike
Lilly, whose practices and supposed supernatural knowledge
were held in the utmost abhorrence by the sectarians of the time,
as something forbidden alike by the laws of God and of man.

"There is a backsliding in Israel ! " he exclaimed. " A captain
hath fallen off, and the Lord hath set His face against him. He
will fall like a withered leaf — be broken like a cracked potsherd ! "

'Tis well Cromwell does not hear him," whispered one of the
men, " or there would be something more than a cracked potsherd
in the case."

Hakabut heard him, and continued his denunciation with yet
greater vehemence.

The Lord," he added, " will chastise him for this thing, and
withdraw the light of His countenance from him. The hand
which hath sustained him shall turn against him ; his wisdom be
turned into foolishness ; and his sin be set as a mark against him.
For is it not written — ' The witch and the sorcerer shall be rooted
from the land; yea, with fire shall it be purged from them ? ' — and
yet, in defiance of the command, the chosen one is consorting with
them."

His further speech was cut short by the low neighing of one of
the horses.

Look to the steeds," said one of the soldiers.

Pshaw ! they are only impatient," observed another.

Impatient ! " exclaimed the preacher, advancing to the door.

Lo, my words are accomplished ; the goodly steeds have broken-rein,
and we are less. in the land of enchantments to find our way
without them. The judgment of Heaven already is upon us ! "

The party all rushed to the door, and saw, to their astonishment,
that the six horses had by some apparently unaccountable means
broken from their fastenings, and were drawing off in a line
towards the open part of the country. In the obscurity of the
night they could not perceive that by the side of each horse walked
a Cavalier, stooping his head to the saddle to avoid being seen by
the Ironsides.

Judgment or not," said a young corporal, who was not quite so
convinced of the interference of the Lord in the matter as Hakabut,
let us recover the horses, lest our enemies laugh in our beards,
and we find we have been imposed upon by our own suggestions."
No sooner did Rupert and his companions perceive that they
were discovered than they vaulted at once into the empty saddles,
and giving the spur to the horses they had at so great a risk
obtained, started off in a body towards the main road.

"Delusion of Satan!" groaned Hakabut, "the evil one hath
prevailed."

Hell ! " said the corporal, " the Royalists have carried off our
horses ! "

Who will answer for this to the general ? " demanded a third.
It was in vain that they rushed into the lodge to search for firearms
; their pistols were in the holsters of their saddles. They
were unarmed except with their swords, and their enemy already
out of reach. At this moment of confusion Cromwell entered the
lodge.

To horse ! " he exclaimed, in his usual stern, brief manner.
The horses have been carried off, general."
Their leader cast an impatient glance, and could distinguish, by
the faint light which began to skirt the horizon, the little party
galloping towards London. In his wrath he let fall curses which
were anything but Scriptural in their expression. The pious
Hakabut groaned in spirit.

He hath been tempted by the evil one," he sighed ; " let us
pray for him."

A blow which might have felled an ox, from the mailed hand
of his leader, stretched the speaker upon the floor of the lodge ;
for Cromwell was a man who, in the moment of danger or the
excitement of battle, forgot the fanatic in the soldier.

Dogs ! " he exclaimed, " is it thus ye keep watch when the
enemy are prowling round ? Prayer is well with earthly enemies,
but it does not exclude prudence and courage. Corporal, run down
to the house to Master Lilly, tell our mishap, and ask of him to
send us such horses as he may have at his disposal. Tell him they
are for the use of the Commonwealth, and that I will replace them."

The example he had made produced its effect, and the subaltern,
whose superstitious terrors were not so great as the rest, was off to
obey his command as soon as it was uttered.

He goeth to the den of perdition," muttered Hakabut, slowly
rising, " and will be devoured. The arm of the evil one is strong ;
the Lord hath abandoned us ; it will prevail against us."

Peace ! " said Cromwell, sternly, for his blood was chafed, and
he felt as much provoked at the folly of the men as at their imprudence
; " thou knowest I smite not twice and the offender
speak again. Look to your arms ; see that they are charged."

A silence followed the orders of their leader. The countenances
of the men betrayed shame and confusion for the loss of their arms.

What means this ? " demanded the speaker.

"Our pistols were left in the holsters of our saddles," said one ;
"we have been beguiled."

By your own ignorance and folly," added Cromwell. " You
have your swords : if attacked, use them like men anxious to
redeem their error. The steel must then decide."

Drawing from his side a long, straight rapier which Lilly had
given him to replace the one which had been so strangely melted
in his grasp, the speaker placed himself at the door of the lodge to
watch the approach of the enemy, who, he doubted not, would
speedily make their appearance, and remained with his keen, grey
eye fixed on the avenue by which they must advance. In about
half an hour the corporal returned, leading by the rein a powerful
black steed, which Master Lilly had sent to the general, the only
saddle-horse in his stable. It was a beast of uncommon thew and
strength of limb. Hakabut groaned as he beheld it, for he firmly
believed it to be the gift of Satan.

I bring, general, the only horse Master Lilly has in his stables.
He bade me say a conqueror might bestride it were he going forth
to do battle for the empire of the world ; and, sooth to say, it is a
steed of rare quality and beauty."

Delusion ! " muttered the fanatical soldier ; " it is an imp of
darkness in the likeness of a goodly steed. At the first running
stream it will change into a winged dragon, and leave its rider to
perish."

Cromwell eyed the gift like a man who well knew the qualities
of the thing he examined, then vaulted into the saddle with an
air of determination which marked a fixed resolution.

General," exclaimed the men, who were devotedly attached to
him, " remain with us."

Make the best of your way to London," said their leader, coldly.
If I am exposed to danger, it is you who are the cause ; if I fall,
avenge me ; but, above all, remember the cause for which so much
blood has been shed. Be truer to it than you have been to me."

Without waiting for a reply, he clapped spurs to his gallant

steed, and followed the path pursued by the Royalists — a step
which, after all, was not so pregnant with danger as it at first
seemed. Parties of the Parliamentary troops he well knew were
scouring the country in all directions. He would most likely fail
in with some of these ; at the worst, the high-mettled steed on
which he rode would enable him in an open country to defy
pursuit.

"The proud man goeth forth to destruction," said Hakabut.
"The hand of the Lord is against him. He that smith the
servant shall feel the rod of the master."

The shame occasioned by their late misadventure rendered the
men disinclined to listen to his predictions; besides, the dawning
day had revived their courage, and they set out upon their march,
much with the air of men who had been baffled at the game in
which they deemed themselves most expert. The corporal secretly
enjoyed the confusion of Hakabut, whose gift at preaching gave
him an influence among the soldiers galling to his authority and
pride.

No sooner had the Royalists reached the brow of the hill than
they held a hasty consultation as to the best mode of proceeding.
To attempt to pass through London in a body upon the horses of
the troopers they well knew to be madness, and they resolved, not
only to separate, but to make a detour round the metropolis, and
meet by mid-clay at the Crown and Bible, the first post-house upon
the northern road.

"Adieu, gentlemen," said Rupert, waving his hand as soon as
the decision was come to. " Fortunately we are all well armed ;
the Roundheads' pistols may chance to do good service. Be
prudent of your lives — the king's depends upon them. Let our
word of conduct be prudence and success."

God and King Charles ! " repeated the Cavaliers, waving their
hands, and starting off in various directions, leaving Prince Rupert
upon the brow of the hill alone. The position of the royal Cavalier
was perhaps the most dangerous, for although his person was as
well disguised as any of them, he was less acquainted with the
country. Under such circumstances ordinary men would have
kept together, in the hope of deriving personal safety from
numbers ; but the experienced soldier knew that number is not
always strength.

Willing to spare his steed, upon whose strength his life might
perchance depend, the solitary horseman rode slowly along for a
considerable time, taking the by-lanes and skirting the woods,
wherever they presented themselves, and casting occasionally
quick, restless glances on either side to see if he were followed.
Images of the past, mingled with hopes for the future, crowded
upon his brain as he pursued his lonely way, till day at last began
to break. As the rays of the sun pierced through the mists of

night, the hoar frost sparkled on the leafless trees and bushes, and
he was briskly pursuing his route, when the tramp of a horse upon
the crisp snow caused him to look round. The morning was not
sufficiently clear for him to distinguish the features of the rides
he saw that the steed was a powerful black one, and that he
who best-ode it came with no friendly intentions, for the gave
was already in his hand.

Rupert was not the man to fly from a single enemy — scarcely
from a dozen. He felt that a skirmish would warm his half-f rosen
blood, and wheeling his horse round with a sudden movement, he
rushed to the encounter as eagerly as the bridegroom rushes to
meet the bride.

For God and the king ! " he cried, as soon as he recognised the
hard features of Cromwell.

God and the people ! " said the Puritan, in a loud, stern voice ;
man of blood, the Lord hath given thee to my hands."

Their long rapiers met, and in such rapid succession were the
blows exchanged, that it would have baffled the eye of the spectator
of their encounter, had there been any, to have followed them.
The Royalist wheeled round the person of his less agile adversary
with the rapidity of a falcon doubling on its prey. Then it was
that the steed of Lilly stood Cromwell in good steed ; the well-trained
animal turned with instinctive quickness, enabling the
rider at every point to confront his assailant. The Royalist felt
that while the horse remained untired he would never be able to
reach his enemy. The contest had continued in this uncertain
manner for about twenty minutes, when both drew rein, and stood
glaring at each other with looks expressive of that hatred which
blood alone can satisfy, and the struggle was suspended as if by
mutual consent.

Traitor and regicide ! " said Rupert, who was the first to draw
his breath, " at last we meet alone — arm to arm, and man to man ! "

I ask no better. My faith is in the sword of the Lord," replied
the Puritan.

Hypocrite ! " exclaimed the prince, scornfully. " The sword
thou speaks of hath already been melted in thy grasp ; and the
doom the wizard showed thee in the glass will yet be thine.
Tyburn will have its due — England preserve her king."

Cromwell turned deadly pale at the words, which reminded him
of the extraordinary scene between him and Lilly. His rage and
surprise, however, lasted but for an instant ; he sprang upon his
horse, became in his turn the assailant, and pressed his adversary
so closely that it required all his skill and coolness not to succumb
beneath the attack. The combat thus renewed raged with unabated
fury on either side. Blood flowed from several flesh wounds given
and received. The Cavalier fought with the desperation of a man
on whose success not only his own life, but the success of the cause

to which that life had been devoted, depended, and Cromwell with
the stern determination of one who had never flinched from his
purpose.

Determined, if possible, to end the struggle — for he felt that he
was becoming faint from loss of blood — Rupert wheeled his horse
suddenly round, and raising himself in his stirrups, aimed so severe
a blow at the head of his opponent that his steel-lined beaver was
half-cut through, his sword broken, and he reeled in his saddle.
A second blow was aimed, but ere it could descend Cromwell had
released himself from his horse and sprung upon the rising bank.

Traitor ! " shouted the prince, springing after him, " thou art
mine ! "

Not yet," replied the Puritan, coolly.

Twice did the Royalist urge his steed to mount the bank, but in
vain ; the animal, though unwounded, could not be brought to
scramble up the steep sides, which, slippery and hardened with
the frost, afforded no hold ; indeed, it was wonderful how a man,
heavy and armed, like Cromwell, had achieved it.

Try again," said Oliver, scornfully.

Maddened by the taunt, Rupert vaulted upon the saddle of his
horse and sprang from it upon the bank, sword in hand. To all
appearance his enemy was at his mercy, for his sword was broken
to the hilt ; but at the very moment he advanced to complete his
triumph Cromwell gave a peculiar whistle, and the steed which the
prince had ridden ran to the spot directly opposite where he was
standing. With one bound the Puritan sprang from the bank
where he was standing into the empty saddle, and galloped off.

This is sorcery," exclaimed the baffled Royalist ; " fiends are
conspired to aid him."

The only sorcery employed on the occasion was the signal which
he had trained the horse to answer to ; for the steed Rupert had
chosen — unfortunately, as it turned out — was Cromwell's own.

CHAPTER XVIII.

ABOUT twelve miles from London, on the great northern road,
stood a hostel, known in the days of the Monarchy by the sign
of the Crown and Sceptre, but changed since the success of the
armies of the Parliament to that of the Bible and Sword ; it was
frequented chiefly by carriers and small traders travelling with
their merchandise to and from the metropolis. One chamber,
more daintily furnished than the rest, was reserved for such
chance travellers of superior quality as accident sometimes brought
to the lonely spot — we say lonely, for the low, thatched house was

isolated from human habitations, the nearest neighbour being at
least two miles and a half distant.

On the evening of the day after the encounter between Cromwell
and Prince Rupert, the long kitchen was filled by a party of
travellers, apparently of different grades and professions ; about a
dozen of these were seated at the table nearest the fire, which burnt
cheerily in the huge stone chimney ; the rest of the inmates were
placed at separate tables, as caprice or fancy dictated. The wife
of the host, a jolly, buxom dame, was busily occupied in preparing
supper, the savoury steam of which filled the low-roofed apartment,
whose rafters were heavily laden with hams, sides of bacon, ropes
of onions, and dried herbs. The larger party kept together, conversing
in low whispers, which suddenly dropped when any
traveller who was not known to them drew his stool near them,
but was resumed again the moment he shifted his quarters, which
the intruder seldom failed to do as soon as he discovered by their
silence that his presence was an intrusion. The landlord, whose
jolly face but ill-accorded with his Puritanical garments and
whining tone when speaking, was moving about with sundry
pewter flagons, supplying his numerous guests.

Friend host," demanded a young carter, who was seated at the
head of the long table, " hast thou no better drink than this in the
house ? Methinks thy tap is none of the freshest."

It is as fresh as the fashion of thy speech, friend," replied the
landlord, in a low tone, but without in the least seeming angry ;
perhaps it were as well not to call too much attention to either."

"What mean you ? " demanded the young man, flushed to the
temples.

Nothing ; at least," said the man, " nothing to offend you. If
the liquor displeases you, I have other at your service, provided
you do not object to the price."

Bring it, friend," quietly observed an old pedlar who was of
the party ; " we are not in the habit of disputing the reckoning,
provided we are well served."

I believe you," muttered the host of the Bible and Sword ashe
dived into his cellar, from whence he presently returned with
a flagon holding about three quarts, which he placed, with a
knowing smile, before the young man who had first found fault
with his beer.

There, Mr. Flitch," he jocularly observed, " taste that, and tell
me if it is to your palate. Had you not been an old acquaintance I
would not have broached a fresh tap before the last was out to
please you. Is it the right sort ? Will it do ? " he added, as the
carter, after taking a hearty draught, handed it to his companion,
who stared as the perfume of ; the contents struck ho olfactory
nerves, and winked knowingly.

I would not desire better. And the price ? "

Oh, we can settle that in the morning, when you clear your
score. Should you require any more of the same barrel, be sure
to call me, for I keep the spigot of that tap myself. You understand
? "

A look of mutual intelligence passed between them, and the
speaker once more resumed his occupation of pouring out beer,
and gossiping with his other guests.

As each of the travellers passed the flagon to his lips, he found,
to his astonishment, that it was filled with excellent Bordeaux, a
wine much more common in England in the reign of Charles I.
than at present ; but then the art of taxation was in its infancy —
it has since been perfected, till it has become a science. But there
is nothing like our modern improvements ! "

Bordeaux, by Bacchus ! " said the carter to the old pedlar next
to him.

We are discovered, then."

"Perhaps not. The fellow's caution, if we wanted another
flagon, to apply only to him, was at least a friendly one. Yet I
wish I knew on what ground we stood with him. He may be a
Roundhead cur, after all, willing to detain us here till assistance
arrives."

Traitors," replied the earl — for the speakers were no other than
Rupert and a nobleman who had been one of the party at the
destruction of the house in Chelsea — " seldom keep such wine."

As my imprudence," said the prince, " has caused the danger,
it is but just, the consequence should fall on me alone. I'll sound
the fellow."

Be careful. Remember how much depends upon the life of
your highness."

Less than you suppose. There are many gallant gentlemen in
England ready, I doubt not, to prove their loyalty to their king,
and serve him more happily than I have done, though never more
willingly. So the cause succeeds, no matter for the defenders."

With these words the speaker rose from his seat, first cautioning
his companions, by a look, to take no notice of his proceedings, and
walking to his host, r asked him to show the way to the stables.

Stables ! " said the landlady, who overheard the request.
Marry, what next ? Supper will be ready in a few minutes ;
and who, I should like to know, is to serve it ? "

I shall be back in a moment, Maud," interrupted her husband,
mildly. " Mr. Flitch wishes to consult me respecting his mare,
Which has sprained her left shoulder. I saw the marks of the
accident as she trotted into the yard."

Rupert coloured; The "marks " he alluded to was the brand
peculiar to the horses of Cromwell's Ironsides. Of course he took
no notice before the guests in the kitchen, but silently followed
his host to the stables.

Now, sir, you would speak with me ? "

I would. You know me ? "

It would be affectation to deny it. I recognised your highness
the moment you entered the yard. The caution I gave you may
prove the recognition was made in no unfriendly spirit."

What am I to understand ? " demanded the prince.

That I am a Royalist,"

And this habit ? " continued the interrogator, pointing to the
Puritanical cut doublet of the landlord.

Is not more strange than yours. My father for many years was
the confidential servant of the Duke of Buckingham. Loyalty is
my inheritance. When a boy I have often received a kind word
and a broad piece from Prince Charles. The broad pieces have
been spent, but the memory of the smiles remains. I'd die to
serve him."

And how may I assure myself of this ? "

« Easily."

Explain," said the prince, impatiently ; " I hate riddles, man."

The hand beneath your carter's frock, if I mistake not, grasps
a pistol. The report will not be heard in the house. I am
unarmed, and shall offer no resistance."

Pshaw ! " exclaimed Rupert, hastily withdrawing his hand,
almost ashamed of his design, for he began to believe the fellow's
loyalty ; " that were no proof."

I can give you no other, then."

I require no other. Give me your hand. Nay, never hesitate,
man. Flitch the carter may shake hands with his honest host. I
am convinced of thy fidelity."

And I will be faithful," said the man, as he grasped the hand
of his sovereign's nephew, " more faithful perchance than those
who make louder professions of their faith ; but true loyalty lies
not on the lip, but in the heart. Tell me, your highness," he
added, " how I can serve you. If your object is to reach the
northern counties, I know every by-road in the country. I am
glad you have spoken freely to me. I do not think it safe that you
should pass the night under my roof."

Why ? "

I'll tell you. I have received orders to prepare the rooms above
for a person who must be of some importance, since he travels with
an escort of Cromwell's Ironsides. The horses you and one or two
of your companions rode on bear the same brand. Should they
recognise them, it might puzzle you, perhaps, to explain to their
satisfaction how they came in your possession."

"And do you know who this so guarded traveller is ? " demanded
Rupert, more and more convinced of the speaker's honesty by his
frankness.

No,. your highness."

I will tell you, then," continued the prince, lowering his voice
to a whisper ; " it is the executioner whom Cromwell has sent for
from the North. The wretch who fills his hateful office in London,
overcome with the horror of the deed, has fled."

The executioner ! " repeated the astonished host ; " will they
dare "

Ambition dares everything."

"And so will loyalty," added the innkeeper ; "the wretch must
never reach London alive."

It is to prevent it we are here," observed the pretended carter ;
rather than the wretch should reach London to perform his hellish
office, we are prepared to sacrifice our lives a hundred times, were
such sacrifice possible."

And I mine," said the host. " But are you sure it is here the
party are to rest, and that the orders I have received concern him,
and no one else ? "

Certain."

Then I am thinking, your highness, that the best thing I can
do is to remove your horses from the stable to the copse at the end
of the field. The dragoons will recognise the horses of their
regiment at a glance. Inquiries will be made — your purpose
discovered and prevented."

The necessity of following the advice of the speaker was too
apparent to permit the disguised Royalist to hesitate one moment.
The horses were accordingly picketed under the shade of a clump
of trees, at a sufficient distance from the hostel to prevent suspicion;
after which the party returned to the kitchen, by which time supper
was smoking on the clean oaken tables.

True man, or knave ? " whispered the earl, as Rupert took his
seat beside him.

True as steel," I'was the reply.

Is he disposed to assist us ? "

Heart and soul."

Supper was nearly over, when the tramping of horses announced
the arrival of the long and anxiously-expected party — a tall, cada-
versus-looking man, whose hollow eyes and the hard lines traced
upon his brow announced a being set apart from the generality of
mankind by sorrow, sin, or passion. He was escorted by six
soldiers of Cromwell's famous Ironsides, commanded by an old
corporal, whose grey moustache and close-cropped hair sufficiently
marked the sect to which he belonged. Although the party had
been chosen from the most fanatical of the regiment, and all of
them looked upon Charles's death as the crowning mercy of the
Lord, it was curious to observe the looks of horror and aversion
with which they regained the minister of death, the man whose
awful privilege it is to wrest its prerogative from the hands of
Deity, by taking the life it gave. To prevent suspicion they had



been ordered to treat him with every outward demonstration o^
respect — to watch oyer his safety and prevent his evasion ; for it
was feared that, like his brother of London, he might at the last
hour, appalled by the majesty of the sacrifice, refuse to perform
his hateful function.

On entering the kitchen of the inn, the executioner looked
round him with an anxious eye, and seemed gradually reassured,
as he saw none but rustics and petty traders, many of whom stood
gaping at him, no doubt wondering who the unimportant-looking
personage could be whose safety was so cared for.

The wretched man was by bitter experience too well aware of
the detestation in which his office was held to expect that even a
common soldier would condescend to share his repast. "With a
sigh at the unnatural solitude in which he was placed, he mounted
the stairs which led to his apartment,. and ate the bread of infamy
alone.

No sooner was the supper concluded, than the guests one by one
retired to their rooms. Clean straw was spread upon the floor of
the kitchen for the escort, who slept with their arms by their side,
ready in case of surprise or accident. The clock of the distant
village had struck the hour of midnight, when the window of the
executioner's room was slowly opened, and Rupert, followed by
the earl, cautiously entered. The man of blood, whose arm was
ready to be raised against his sovereign's life, slept — not the
tranquil sleep of honest labour, but that restless sleep which brings
no rest — rather wearies the body by the suffering of the spirit.
In his dreams he saw the scaffold and the block, the illustrious
victim, and the crowd of pale observant faces, which all seemed
turned reproachfully and horror-stricken towards him. Cold drops
of perspiration bedewed his cheek, and the bed shook beneath the
agony of his fearful vision. It was almost a relief to him when he
found himself suddenly aroused from his dream by the pressure
of a heavy hand upon his shoulder. Involuntarily he would have
yelled out for assistance, but a second hand was placed upon his
mouth, and he felt the cold point of a weapon at his throat.

Silence, miscreant ! " whispered a deep, stern voice ; " the least
cry is the signal of thy death. Arise and follow us."

Whither ? " faltered the man, as soon as the removal of the
hand permitted him to speak.

Whither concerns thee not."

My life is as dear to me as another's. If I must die, I may as
well die here," replied the fellow, doggedly ; " I shall, at least, not
fall unrevenged. Give me your word for my safety, or I alarm the
house. There are those below who will not let my blood sink to
the earth without inquiring the right of those who shed it."

I pledge it," said Rupert, " provided thou art obedient, and
makes no effort to alarm those below ; but at the first sound or
VOL. ill. T 2

motion to betray us, though that moment were my last, my sword
shall pierce thy carrion body. What sum did these traitors promise
thee for the murder of the king ? "

Murder ! " repeated the man.

Echo not my words, but answer me. "What sum was promised
thee ? "

Fifty pieces of gold."

They shall be doubled to thee, Iscariot, an thovi pers priest our
bidding. Now then, descend the ladder at the window, and think
not to escape, for there are those waiting to receive thee w r ho will
think as little of thy wretched life as thou hast thought of thy
many victims."

Judging from the tone of the speaker that he was in the hands
of those who both could and would keep faith with him, whether
for good or evil, the unhappy man yielded to necessity, and silently
descended the ladder by means of which Rupert and his companion
had mounted to his chamber.

No sooner did he reach the ground than the disguised Royalists
seized him and mounted him, bound hand and foot, on a horse,
the rein of which was held by one of the party.

"Thank Heaven, gentlemen," whispered the prince, "we have
succeeded ! "

But what are we to do with our prisoner ? " demanded the old
knight.

Guard him in safety till we reach the appointed place of
rendezvous."

Should we be pursued ? " inquired another.

Fly with him to the last."

But if overtaken ? "

Let each man plunge his sword into his breast. Forward."

Fortune seemed to favour the boldness of the attempt. Had
Rupert acted, while commanding the armies of his uncle, with the
same prudence he displayed in the abduction of the executioner,
how different might have been the royal martyr's fate !

Morning had dawned, and the fugitives w T ere far beyond pursuit,
when the Ironsides discovered, to their astonishment and chagrin,
the absence of their charge.

The evening before the intended execution of the king, Cromwell
was seated in his study. Visitor after visitor had arrived and
departed by the secret entrance, and for the first time during many
hours he was left alone. His countenance was unusually pale.
The juggling mystery which Lilly had enacted before him had
produced its effect upon his spirit. He firmly believed that the
death of Charles was essential to his safety, as well as to the
realisation of his ambitious dreams, and — let us also be just — to
the assuring of the liberties of the people, who never seem to have
been forgotten by Cromwell in all his aspirations after power.

No ! " he exclaimed, " I will not suffer pity or intrigue to move
me from my purpose. Charles hath openly been judged and
righteously condemned for treason to the people. Why should I
stay the doom pronounced, and suffer myself, like the scapegoat of
the Israelites, to be made an offering for his safety ? I will not
turn from the task to which I have been so loudly called. I will
not barter the nation's liberties and my reward against the gratification
of a senseless pity. He dies, were he a hundred kings.
Kings ! " he added, disdainfully ; " Jehovah gave them first to His
people as a punishment : few have belied their origin. I must be
wary," he continued ; " I am beset with rocks and quicksands,
where a firm hand alone can guide the helm ; one false move, and
my bark is wrecked, never to float again."

For several moments he remained buried in silence ; then, as if
roused by the intensity of the thoughts, dangers, and perplexities
which crowded on him, he started from his seat, and began
nervously pacing the apartment.

By Heavens ! " he murmured, " but the sacrifice is worthy of a
nation like the English. Many have been their wrongs — august
the expiation. To-morrow's sun shall witness a deed shall make
the sceptred tyrants of the earth tremble on their thrones.
Slumbering humanity shall break its chain, and take a giant step
to the realisation of those rights which martyrs have sealed with
their blood. A voice shall be heard, doomed never to be silenced."

The usual signal was heard at the private door.

Enter," said the speaker, with an air of dissatisfaction ; for he
liked not to be disturbed in his meditations, and was already
wearied with the fatigues of the day, as well as the excitement he
had undergone. The door was opened, and Ireton entered the
apartment.

Well, son-in-law," said Cromwell, " the news. If I may take
thy countenance as an index, it bodes little good to the cause, and
less to me."

Fairfax and his army are close to London."

I know it," said Cromwell, calmly ; " but Fairfax is a dreamer,
who will never venture to oppose the judgment of the people."

The Scotch Parliament have ordered their army to cross the
Border and advance towards London. The Presbyterians have
resolved to make common cause in favour of the king. You are
like a sleeper walking on the edge of a precipice, ignorant of your
danger. One false step, and you are precipitated to the abyss
beneath your feet."

Let the traitors join," said Cromwell, proudly. " The sword
which smote their ranks has not yet rusted in its sheath. My
heart has not yet lost its energy, nor my mind its daring."

The executioner," added Ireton, " has been waylaid on his
journey, and either slain or carried off."

The last intelligence produced a greater effect upon the iron
nerves of his father-in-law than all his previous intelligence. He
knew that the sacrifice once consummated, terror and necessity-would
so bind all who had either borne arms against the king or
taken a part in the judgment, that of prudence they must act
together for their general safety ; added to which, he remembered
the reverse of the picture which Lilly had shown him in his magic
mirror, as well as the prediction that if Chaises outlived the month
he would triumph over all his enemies, and that be (Cromwell)
would meet the death he had assigned his captive king — death by
the cord, and not the axe.

Another must be found, no matter at what price," exclaimed
the regicide, his thick lips quivering with passion and excitement.
Nay, could no other arm be found," he added, " to strike for the
outraged liberties of England, my own should "

Yours ! " interrupted the astonished Ireton.

I know not what I say," replied his father-in-law. " This is
the hour for action and decision — we have no time to waste in
words. Where is Fairfax ? "

Encamped within four miles of London."

Good : order my horse and accompany me."

What to do ? "

What circumstance and the cause," replied Cromwell, " may
render necessary. I have advanced too far to retreat like a timid
girl. Could dangers appal me, long ere this I had resigned the
contest; but I am prepared to brave the shadow of the valley of
death, its terrors and its snares, conscious that'the Arm which hath
hitherto sustained me in the people's cause will not fail me at the
final hour."

Before you go," said his visitor, hesitatingly, " there is one
without would speak with you."

His name ? "

He hath offended thee twice, and fears."

His name ? " repeated Cromwell, impatiently.

Barford."

Humph ! a villain fashioned to evil — an instrument that might
be used to anything, nor feel degraded at the office. What seeks
he with me ? "

He boasts of the means to draw Fairfax from the cause of
Charles."

What else ? "

"To find, if needful, an executioner," added Ireton in a whisper.

And his price ? " demanded Cromwell ; " for such creatures
act but from interest — are bought or sold like beasts of vilest
burden."

His lips will name it."

Admit him, then, and look he trifles not. If I see falsehood

lurking on his lip, read it but in the shifting of an eye, he had
better meet a lion in the wilderness than brave my wrath. He
hath deceived me once : let him beware the second time."

Availing himself of the permission thus ungraciously accorded,
Ireton opened the private portal, and admitted the traitor Barnard,
who, since his recovery from the wound which old Martin, in
defence of the honour of his mistress, had inflicted, had been, like
an evil spirit, hovering round those he hated who yet remained in
England. Hence it was that he became acquainted with the secret
that a Cavalier was concealed in the chamber of Lady Fairfax,
although he little dreamt who that fugitive really was.

So," said Cromwell, fixing his glance upon him, " we meet
again ? "

''To do thee service," interrupted the traitor, "by detaching
Fairfax from the enemies of the people."

"And touching the executioner?" added the leader of the
Independents.

He, too," said the villain, with a glow of shame at his degradation,
" should the fatal necessity arrive, shall not be wanting."

M Enough ; we understand each other ; name thy recompense."

Swear to me that if I place a traitor within thy grasp, no
matter what his or her name and rank, or who intercedes for them,
thou wilt be deaf to the prayer of mercy — swear this, and I am the
instrument of thy will in all things."

I swear this to thee," said Cromwell, calmly ; " but see thou dono
wrong in this, for if thou dost, as the Lordliveth, the judgment
thou wouldst draw on them shall fall on thee."

Content," said Barford, with a smile of satisfaction, for he knew
the man he trusted. " Have you ordered horses ? "

I have."

To the camp of Fairfax ? "

Even there," added Cromwell, with surprise.

I will accompany thee ; and, on the way, arm thee with that
shall bind him to thy will."

A meeting had that very night been held at the tent of the leader
of the Presbyterians, which had been, attended by the Scotch commissioners
and all the superior officers, in which it was decided
that the army, at an early hour the following morning, should
enter London, and prevent, if necessary by force of arms, the
execution of the king. Large parties of citizens and Royalists
were, it was well known, prepared to join them. Fairfax, acting
lander the inspiration of his wife, to whom he was tenderly
attached, had given the final orders, and was preparing to retire
to rest, when his orderly announced that a stranger wished to
speak with him. Deeming it, perhaps, some messenger from the
City, his commander drew his sword, which he had already thrown
carelessly upon his couch, and directed that he should be admitted;

at the same time ordering, by way of precaution, that the guard
without should be kept on the alert.

In a few seconds a man, muffled in a horseman's cloak, entered
the tent and intimated by a sign that he wished to speak with
Fairfax alone. At a wave of his leader's hand the officers
-withdrew.

Now then, who art thou, and what is thy errand ? "

The cloak was cast aside, and the speaker beheld, to his astonishment,
his rival — Cromwell.

Cromwell ! " he exclaimed.

Even he — come to save thee from the snares which beset thy
path, and call thee back to duty and to honour."

Honour ! " repeated Fairfax, proudly ; " who dares impugn it ? "

"Thy conscience," said Cromwell, sternly. "Thou wouldst
employ the people's army to protect the people's enemy — reverse
the judgment God and man approve — rivet the chain on thy
unhappy country. Like Samson, thou hast yielded to a woman's
cunning, who misleads while she dishonours thee."

Liar ! " exclaimed Fairfax, grasping his sword and rushing
towards him.

Cromwell quietly threw open the horseman's cloak which still
hung upon his shoulder, and showed that he was without weapon
of any kind.

Is this thy courage ? " he demanded. " Thou seest I am
unarmed."

Slander should ever be so," replied the Presbyterian.

"Truth needs no defence," said his visitor; "she is protected in
the majesty of her own presence. Thou hast known me long and
well. Dost think, to combat friend or enemy, I would descend to
the rogue's last shift — a lie ? "

"No."

I tell thee, then, thy wife deceives thee — that at this very
moment, while, under her tuition, thou places the cat's-paw of the
people's enemy, she has a Cavalier concealed within her chamber."

Fairfax turned as pale as the sculptured statue on a tomb. Cold
as was his general nature, he was devotedly attached to his wife,
of whose beauty he was not less enamoured than jealous.

What proof have you of this ? " he faltered.

Believe not my words, but the evidence of thy senses," replied
his visitor. " Ride with me to London ; I will furnish thee with
the means to enter thy mansion unperceived. If my words prove
false, pursue thy design against the liberties of thy country, strike
like a parricide the mother whose bleeding bosom is bared before
thee ; but if sooth "

If sooth," interrupted the agitated man, " although an angel's
tongue should plead for her and the cause of her vile paramour, I
would be deaf as the adder to its solicitations. I know not what

to think. I dare not doubt thy word — will not suspect, except on
the evidence of my own senses, my wife's fidelity in this."

Dost thou accept the proof ? "

I do ; but mark me, Cromwell, if thou prove treacherous in
this, though my blood may be the sacrifice, my death will be
fearfully avenged. The Scotch are on their march."

I know it."

There are many Royalists within the City."

I could number them."

My army are within an hour's march."

Let them advance if I deceive thee. Lo, I trust myself unarmed
in thy hands — venture with thee in the mansion where, at thy
slightest word, a hundred hands would be raised against my life.
Doth this look like treachery ? "

No. Speak no more ; my brain and heart are both on fire.
Have with thee to London ! "

A few moments later, and the clatter of horses announced that
the bold project of Cromwell had succeeded. The leader of
the Presbyterians had left the camp. It was past the hour of
midnight, and Lady Fairfax was alone in her chamber. She little
dreamt that, from the oratory adjoining, her husband's eyes were
fixed upon her. The deluded dupe had solemnly promised that,
in the event of finding his companion's information true, he would
despatch a courier to his army, forbidding them to advance, and
quit the house without discovering himself to his guilty partner,
whom he would deceive to the last with false hopes of rescue for
the king.

Be firm," whispered Cromwell. " She is here."

Cold drops of perspiration poured down the pallid cheek of
Fairfax as he beheld his wife unlock the door of communication
which led to his own chamber, and a young Cavalier present
himself, to whom she-hastily communicated a few words.
Whatever they were, they seemed to import the wildest transport,
for he fell upon his knee and passionately kissed her hand.

Art thou satisfied ? " said his companion, in a low tone.

I am satisfied."

That I have spoken truth ? "

Fearfully ! " groaned Fairfax. " God ! — so fair and so
deceitful ! "

Away, then. Remember thy promise. Here thou canst not
remain, unless to witness thy dishonour. Not a word or sound
that may betray thee . To-morrow is the day of expiation — first a
nation's injuries to be avenged and next thine own. I will
give orders to surround the house. Thy victim shall not escape thee."

Nor thine," muttered the wretched husband whose heart was
torn by jealousy and doubt. "I swear it by my broken happiness —
by her perfidy and dishonour."

The two great leaders of the time quitted the mansion unperceived
together.

Charles I. was seated in his cabinet in the palace of St. James's
the last night he was destined to pass on earth. He had that very
day parted with the youthful Princess Elizabeth, and his son, whom
the Parliament had permitted to bid a last farewell to their unhappy
father. To the former he had given two diamond seals ami his
blessing. The boy, while seated on his knee, he warned against the
designs of the Puritans.

They will cut off thy father's head," he observed, fixing his
melancholy eyes upon the tearful features of the boy; "and perhaps
endeavour to make thee king, but thou must not consent to be one
while thy brother lives."

A king ! " exclaimed the child indignantly ; " they shall tear
me to pieces first."

The father clasped the spirited little fellow to his breast and
wept bitterly. He was the image of his mother, the beautiful
Henrietta.

As we said, Charles was alone in his cabinet. The antechamber
was filled with guards, and sentinels were placed under his windows.
The George, set with diamonds, hung by a blue ribbon from his
neck. Raising the jewel to his lips, he first kissed it, and then
touching a spring at the back discovered a miniature of his wife,
of the only woman whom he had ever really loved, and whose
influence over his mind had at various times produced so fatal an
effect upon his fortunes.

For the last time, Henrietta," he murmured, " let me gaze upon
thy treasured lineaments — for the last time press them to my lips !
Heaven will pardon the devotion of a husband's love, and the few
moments stolen from the preparation for eternity. God ! " he added
can this be real ? — condemned to die like a felon ! to descend into
a hideous tomb before my time ! murdered by traitors who were
sworn my subjects ! It is too horrible for reality ; they never will
dare lay hands upon the life of their anointed king ! "

For some moments he remained silent ; a painful thought, like
a vision of the past, crossed his brain ; he shuddered and trembled
violently — but it was not with fear.

"They will," he added; "there is justice in the fury — retribution
in the act which sends me to the scaffold. Strafford, mj r
friend, my guide, and counsellor, sacrificed by my weakness !
From the gory scaffold too long thy blood has called for vengeance :
it will be heard at last. These traitors, in their blind fury, are but
the instruments of an unerring Hand, which strikes through clouds,
unseen and sure. God ! there is retribution in Thy ways."

Sire," said Bishop Juxon, who had entered the cabinet unperceived,
" let me entreat your majesty to take some rest. The hour
grows late, and tomorrow you have a fatal journey before 3*011."

But a brief one, my lord," said the king, with a faint smile.
"Fear not : our courage will not desert us till its close."

But your strength may ; and men will say the king showed
fear — mistaking weakness, perchance, for cowardice. Ah, sire,
forgive my importunity ; but since this fatal sacrifice must be
accomplished, I would have you die as becomes the descendant of
a hundred kings — calm in the dignity of your integrity. Let not
the traitors have a needless triumph."

Fear not," replied Charles ; " the annals of our house show that
neither captivity nor death can break the spirit of a Stuart."

This was in allusion to his grandmother, the beautiful and
unfortunate Queen of Scots, whose conduct on the scaffold displayed
the resignation of a martyr and the courage of a heroine.
Yielding himself at last to the persuasions of the prelate, the king
partially undressed, and threw himself upon his couch, where he
slept till morning, according to the testimony of his attendants,
soundly.

Juxon remained in prayer at his bedside.

The fatal 30th of January at last dawned. At an early hour the
king awoke, and calling for the gentlemen of his chamber, dressed
himself with unusual care — putting on two shirts, lest, as he
observed, he should tremble from cold, and those upon the scaffold
should mistake the cause for fear. That done, Bishop Juxon was
once more summoned to his presence, and administered the sacrament,
which Charles partook of with devotion. The office of
religion terminated, he remained in conversation with the prelate
on the state of the kingdom, his children, and his wife, till the
fatal hour should arrive.

When I am dead," he said, " take to the queen the only token
I possess of England's royalty — the George." He touched the
ribbon of the order as he spoke. " Tell her, on the word of a
dying king — a Christian, I should have said," he added, with
humility — " that I have been to her a faithful husband — that my
last thought was of her — my last prayer to God for her happiness
and my children's."

I will not fail, sire," replied Juxon, whose agitation increased
as the fatal hour drew near. " God give her strength to bear the
trial, and support your majesty in yours ! "

Mine," replied the king, as a hesitating knock was heard at the
door, " will soon be ended. Be firm, my lord," he added, " let not
these traitors see you falter. Enter ! "

The door was respectfully opened, and Colonel Hackett, who
was appointed to conduct the king from St. James to Whitehall,
appeared upon the threshold of the cabinet, pale and trembling.

Sire," he faltered.

I am ready," said Charles, going to the .table in the centre of
the room, and taking up his hat, which was overshadowed with black

ostrich plumes ; " now then, my lord, let us not keep our eager
subjects waiting."

With these words the speaker descended the staircase with a
brisk step, and entered the great hall, preceded by Hackett and
followed by Juxon. The escort was drawn up ready to receive
him, as were also the few gentlemen of his household whom
Parliament permitted to attend their master to the last.

I thank you, gentlemen," said the king, as soon as he beheld
them, " for this last proof of your devotion and service. Thanks
are all I have now to offer : my son may one day recompense you
for your attachment to his father. Not a tear," he added, proudly,
not a show of weakness ! Charles will die as he has lived — a
king."

The mournful procession passed at a quick pace through the
crowds which thronged the park, preceded by Hackett and the
guards, then the gentlemen of the household, who all walked
bareheaded before their unhappy master. The moment they
reached Whitehall, Charles, as the scaffold was not quite ready,
entered his cabinet, and yielding to the persuasion of the bishop,
partook of some refreshment, and then engaged in prayer.

Thousands of upturned eyes were fixed upon the scaffold, and a
man in a mask who held in his hand the fatal axe. The Ironsides
were drawn up close to the railing, and the regiments on which
Cromwell could most rely flanked them, Men gazed upon the
preparation as on something unnatural and strange, and from the
delay believed that an accommodation had been entered into ; but
there stood the mysterious headsman to give the lie to their expectations
and their hopes. Prayers were openly offered up for the
deliverance of the king, without the speakers being checked by the
fanatic soldiery. All seemed as if spell-bound by the terror of the
scene. A species of fascination, like a hideous nightmare, had
fallen on the assembly, and action was denied them.

The fatal window at last opened, and Charles, attended by Juxon,
Hackett, and the officers, appeared upon the scaffold. Finding he
could not be heard by the people, he addressed himself to those
around him, vindicated his conduct, and after giving his George to
the prelate, submitted himself to the stroke.

The axe fell, and the spell which enchained the multitude was
broken. A loud shriek burst from a thousand lips — the executioner
disappeared — all was over.

A few nights afterwards a simple coffin was borne down the
stately aisles of St. George's Chapel, followed by a few attendants,
who were watched by a figure muffled in a cloak and half-concealed
behind a column.

The ashes thus privately conveyed to the grave were those of
Charles — the solitary spectator the regicide Cromwell.

CHAPTER XIX.

On the morning of the execution of the unhappy Charles, Lady
Fairfax, whose house commanded a view of Whitehall, entered
the room in which Prince Charles was concealed ; her face radiant
with smiles, reflected from the sweet consciousness of having, as
she thought, assured the safety of the unfortunate monarch.

Now, madam," eagerly demanded her guest, " what news ? If
thy features may be taken as an index, your intelligence is good."

Most favourable," replied the lady. " My husband and the
Presbyterian army have advanced to London ; the Scotch are about
to pass the Border ; and your highness's cousin, Prince Rupert,
writes me word, by a sure messenger, that he has succeeded in his
attempt of carrying off the executioner. In face of circumstances
like these, the Independents will pause ere they touch a hair of
your royal father's head."

A thousand lives should answer it ! " exclaimed the prince,
impetuously. " Traitors ! villains ! is it not enough that they have
broken the kingly sceptre, trampled on a crown, but they must
add murder and sacrilege to their dark list of crimes ? But a time
will come when I shall place my foot upon their stubborn necks
and make them feel their master."

"With such a feeling," exclaimed the high-spirited woman,
never ! The prestige of royalty, as courtiers and flatterers
worship it, is gone, vanished for ever. In its place a nobler
sovereignty may rise — one throned in the people's hearts. Believe
me, prince, unless the regal chair be built on them, its new foundations
will be proved of sand. The necks of Englishmen," she
added, proudly, " will never more support it ! "

When the reader reflects on the events which so rapidly succeeded
the Restoration he will almost deem that Lady Fairfax prophesied ;
but the Stuart — like every race upon which God has sst His doom
were never to be warned.

The prince, not wishing to reply to the lady's reproof — for such
he felt it — approached the window of the apartment, and concealing
himself behind the heavy velvet curtains, half-drawn across the
casement, watched the men who were erecting the scaffold.

Still these hideous preparations ! " he murmured.

They are nothing," said Lady Fairfax ; " believe me, they are
nothing. I have my husband's word — never yet broken to friend
or enemy — for your royal father's safety. Oh ! may he profit by the
bitter experience of the past, and rule the land in justice and in
peace ! "

At this moment the heavy tramp of cavalry was heard, and
Cromwell's Ironsides slowly marched past the house of the Presbyterian
general, and took up a position close to the scaffold. The

heart of the young prince sank at the sight of their cold, resolute
features. Not a man amongst them whose countenance was not
knit with determination. Bigotry rendered them deaf to justice a3
to mercy. They were armed to tho teeth, and considered their
blood as water when called upon to shed it for the advancement of
what they considered the cause of true religion and the liberties
of the saints on earth. The captive king many of them firmly
believed to be Antichrist, whose downfall was to be the signal for
the establishment of the promised Church of the Lord in England.
At the same moment, from the opposite side of the Park, a strong
party of Presbyterians marched up and took possession of the
avenues leading to their general's house. The prince changed
colour as he beheld the movement, and fixing his eyes upon his
hostess, reproachfully asked if father and son were both alike
betrayed.

This is some error — some fatal error. What do they here, .
when they should hem the scaffold round, and guard their king ?
I need not their protection."

Nor I," said the prince, significantly.

Prince ! " exclaimed the lady, proudly, " my husband's honouris
as untarnished as your own, and must not be suspected. If,"
she added, and her voice slightly trembled as she spoke, " you find
him false, you have one way left to punish him."

How. lady ? "

The noble-minded creature walked with a stately air towards the
chimney piece, and taking a magnificently-mounted pistol from it,
placed it in the hands of the speaker, saying :

By depriving him of one whom I believe he loves dearer than
all, save honour — who then would loathe, much as she now admires
him. If Fairfax proves a traitor to his word, level and fire."

"At a woman ? " exclaimed the young man, reproachfully. " Oh !
never, never ; and least of all against thee, more generous e'en than
fair. Forgive me! I am mad — excited — distracted with terror for
my father's safety. But whate'er befall, whether thy husband's
heart or honour fail him, mine will be just to thee."

Nothing can befall," said the lady, eagerly. " I told you of
your cousin Rupert's success. They have no executioner."

There is an executioner ! " shrieked the prince, as a man,
clothed in black, masked, and bearing, an axe upon his shoulder,
stepped from the open window upon the scaffold. " I am deceived
betrayed ! God ! is there no help — no succour ? "

Rupert's letter ! " exclaimed Lady Fairfax, hastily taking it
from her bosom. " See, that is no forgery. He would not betray me."

His cousin hastily glanced over the well-known characters, to
assure himself that they were real ; but he could not read — tears of
indignation and rage dimmed his sight. Dashing the paper to the
ground, he prepared to leave the apartment.

"Whither would you go ? " demanded his hostess.

To share my father's fate. If he has friends to strike a blow
in his defence, 'tis fit his son should head them."

Oh ! this is madness ! "

Pardon me, lady, men call it duty."

The speaker was about to leave the room, when Martha, Lady
Fairfax's favourite attendant, hastily made her appearance, and
informed the fugitive that it was impossible he could leave the
house, for every door and avenue was guarded, and sentinels placed
even beneath the windows:

"A prisoner too ! " muttered the young man bitterly. " I shall
have less distance to march to the fatal block than my poor father."

Fresh troops, belonging to the Independent party, kept continually
arriving, and drove the citizens and Cavaliers, who, in a
desperate hope of saving their king, had congregated in groups, to
a considerable distance from the scaffold, which at last was so
surrounded by them, that it would have been easy to have executed
a dozen persons before even a superior force could have reached
the spot. The hopes of the monarch's friends were changed to
despair.

Prince Charles remained, like one fascinated, at the window,
gazing on the fatal scene. Although struck with horror, he had
not the strength to withdraw his gaze. Presently Colonel Hackett
made his appearance upon the scaffold, followed by Bishop Juxon
and the king, who, of the thousands present, appeared the most
collected. Of the Stuart it has well been said, that they found
the dignity of royalty only on the scaffold or in exile. A groan of
agony broke from the bosom of the son as he gazed on his unhappy
father. Lady Fairfax, as pale as death, approached the young man,
and laying her trembling hand upon his arm, endeavoured to draw
him away.

No ! no ! " he murmured ; " if my father has not taught me how
to reign, I will at least learn from him how to die. See with what
dignity he glances on his rebellious subjects, and addresses his
parting words to those around him ! Now he removes his mantle
and prepares himself for the block. God ! " he added, " is there no
aid ? are Thy thunders still ? "

"Leave the fatal window ! " exclaimed the lady, vainly endeavouring
to draw him away.

He gives his George — the last ensign of England's royalty — to
Juxon, and now he bows his august head to the block ! "
The sight will blast you ! " almost shrieked his hostess.
One moment ! The masked wretch advances. Hold ! 'tis thy
king — my father, villain ! Treason ! sacrilege ! Not one sword
drawn to save him ! God ! the air is changed to blood ! Villains !
Treachery ! treachery ! "

A deep groan, followed by the piercing shrieks of females, which

pierced even the walls of the well-guarded mansion of Fairfax,
announced that the sacrifice was accomplished, and Charles II. fell
like one struck by lightning upon the floor. Martha and her
mistress used every effort, for a long time without success, to
restore him to life. Beset as they knew themselves to be with
spies, they dared not call for assistance. Exerting their united
strength, they bore him between them into the general's room,
and laid him, sobbing like a child, upon the couch : manhood,
courage, all had given way at the sight of his father's blood; for
Charles, at the epoch of which we write, was not the heartless being
which exile and vice afterwards rendered him.

The echo of a heavy tread was heard upon the stairs. Lady
Fairfax, not knowing what danger might threaten, but resolute, at
the hazard of her own life, to protect her guest's, left the apartment,
and placing herself before the door which led to it, awaited
with the calmness of despair the arrival, which she feared would
prove the messenger of ill. In a few moments her husband stood
before her. He, too, was pale ; the scene he had just witnessed
had cooled his jealous passion, and, despite his fancied injuries,
his eye fell beneath the glance of his beautiful, high-spirited wife.

'Tis well," she exclaimed, " that shame has not abandoned thee
as well as honour. Is this thy promise ? Fool or knave — tell me,
for the future which am I to deem thee ? "

You bear it well, madam," faltered her husband ; " but I have
not yet to learn that a woman, when she casts off virtue, generally
casts off fear."

A proverb is a poor excuse for cowardice."

Cowardice ! " repeated the Presbyterian leader. " By Heaven,
I thought to weep an angel's fall, instead of which, I meet a wanton's
shamelessness."

Wanton ! " repeated his wife, and her countenance became
suddenly flushed with indignation. " Art mad, or drunk with the
triumph of thy perjury ? Wanton ! Had an angel's tongue proclaimed
me such, my insulted virtue would have answered he lied !
Fairfax, if thou art not a thing too vile for men to name — if I am
not to mourn the extinction of my love as well as pride in thee,
explain this fearful mystery ! I cannot, dare not think thy promise
to me was but premeditated treachery — thy resolution to save the
king a snare for his destruction. Oh, what a name," she added,
bitterly, " hast thou lost ! Instead of the pacificator of thy unhappy
country, what hast thou made thyself ? It's tyrant's dupe."

But not the dupe of thy lascivious passions. When I made
that promise I little deemed my loyal, virtuous z^r/ehada paramour
concealed within her chamber— a Royalist — a creature — a silken
thing, to breathe soft words, and whisper compliments — a villain,
set on by Royalists to tamper with thy honour and with mine."
The look with which Lady Fairfax regarded her husband was

such as an angel might have given, accused of plotting with the
arch-rebel Satan. Surprise, horror, insulted virtue, and indignation
were blended in one glance. "Without uttering one word, she
was about to quit the apartment, when the general, suddenly struck
by the suspicion that he had been betrayed, or that the scene he
had witnessed was capable of an honourable explanation, detained
her.

Speak," he added. " Tell me, against the evidence of my own
eyes, that I have been deceived. I shall almost believe thee.
Swear there is not a Royalist concealed within my chamber."

Then should I perjure myself," said the lady, calmly.

And do you dare to tell me so ? "

Hast thou not dared to break thy plighted honour — to sell thy
faith like a thing of vilest price — to lie to thine own conscience ?
Where respect is withered, fear hath no existence. For three days
a Cavalier hath been the tenant of thy chamber."

Fairfax, maddened by jealous fury, drew his sword, and was
rushing towards the door, when the voice of his wife, as she threw
herself before it, arrested him.

"Strike," she exclaimed, "first through the heart whose trust
thou hast broken — whose love dishonoured ! Through that, and
that alone, shalt thou reach the person of thy king ! "

"King ! " repeated the astonished general.

How call you the son of him whom thou hast aided, even now,
to murder ? " demanded his wife. " Fool ! miserable fool ! whose
jealousy hath made thee the dupe of Cromwell! — •' Fairfax,' the
world will say, 'aided the Independents to murder Charles the
First.' It shall never add, ' his wife assisted him to betray
Charles the Second'"

And the Prince Charles is— — " Overwhelmed with confusion,
he could not finish the sentence.

In thy chamber, overcome with horror at the sacrifice he hath
witnessed, cursing in his heart the broken faith which a weak
woman, proud in her husband's honour, gave. To whom else,
thickest thou, had I resigned thy chamber, or risked, in vulgar
minds, suspicion on my fame ? "

Fairfax, fearfully distressed, let fall the weapon, and sank at the
feet of his high-spirited, noble-minded wife. He dared not meet
her gave. He was humbled, crushed, by the terrible humiliation.
He could only falter out the words, " Pardon — pardon ! "

When thou canst forgive thyself, ask mine," was the reply.

Right — right," said Fairfax. " Madness like mine is not to be
atoned. Fool ! " he added, " to doubt of Heaven while yet within
the halo of its light. Be merciful ! Say that thou latest me — it
needs but that to end my shame at once."

Hate," said the lady, "is for dee Is of bold unblushing villainy,
in which, at least, man risks his life to achieve his mad desire
vol in. u 2

But for the perjured witling who, at suspicion's slightest breath'
stabs his wife's confidence and matron honour, sells to the headsman's
stroke a nation's trust, nothing remains but bitter, cold
contempt. God ! " she added, with a sudden pang of agony, " that
I should live to tell the man to whom I gave my virgin heart and
plighted faith his deeds have made me scorn him ! "

Woman," exclaimed her husband, '* be merciful in thy resentment,
as thou art strong in innocence. Hadst thou but for one
moment felt the hideous pang of jealousy, that viper of the heart,
whose nurture is life's essence, thou wouldst compassionate my
fearful sufferings. Let not the moment which roots the monster
from my breast deprive me of all hope ! "

Hope dies with honour," replied the lady. " Henceforth our
hearts are twain. The only confidence I ever placed in human
faith is broken."

I will redeem my honour," exclaimed Fairfax.

And who will ransom mine," demanded the lady — " pledged to
a son for his dear father's safety ? Trusting the word of Fairfax's
wife, the prince remained inactive. Heavens ! " she added, " is it
not enough thou must be Cromwell's lacquey, but I must be his
tool ? Go, complete your treason. Drag forth the son as you have
dragged his father. My death, at least, shall vindicate my name.
Men shall not say that I betrayed him with thee ! "

They will not," said the prince, who had overheard the latter
part of the conversation, and read the vindication of the speaker
in her passionate reproaches. " Whate'er my fate, Charles will die
convinced of Lady Fairfax's honour — of her husband's weakness."

"Weakness, but not treachery, prince," interrupted the general,
not daring to raise his eyes to the son of his slaughtered monarch.

Thanks," said Lady Fairfax, kissing the hand of Charles ; " oh,
thanks for those kind words ! My heart will feel the lighter in its
misery. But now I was a proud, happy wife ; I almost braved
thee, prince, for thy suspicion of my husband's faith — braved thee
in presence of the axe and block, despite the evidence of eyes and
sense ! Forgive me ! oh, forgive me ! "

A loud clamouring was heard at the door of the house ; the fair
speaker started, and fixed a doubtfully inquiring eye upon her
husband.

Madam," said Charles, " farewell ! To the last I am your
grateful debtor. And, sir," he added, with a dignity of manner
which few who knew him in after-life would have given him
credit for, " lead on ! "

Lead ! " repeated Fairfax, mechanically, for the scene had
bewildered him ; " where ? "

To the block, still red with my dear father's blood ! To the
shambles of the butcher to whom you have doubtless sold me ! "

An officer of Fairfax's regiment entered the room, to inform him

that a messenger, attended by a party of the Ironsides, was below,
demanding admittance to the general, and that one of the Presbyterian
members of the House had just rode up to say that orders
had been given to surround the house, and the Independents were
marching to hem it in on everjaside.

The intelligence seemed to restore Fairfax to his wonted energy;
turning to the messenger, he gave his orders with precision and
brevity.

Let Moreton's troop advance to Charing. Keep the ground
clear till I arrive."

If we are attacked ? " demanded the officer.

Defend yourselves."

Against the Parliament ? "

Against all who attempt to oppose your progress. Tell Morton
to lead my horse to the side entrance of the house ; then hasten
back, for I must borrow yours. Away at once ; more hangs upon
despatch than life and safety — honour, sir, honour."

"What mean you?" demanded Lady Fairfax, as soon as the
officer had left the room.

To conduct the prince," said her husband, bowing respectfully,
to Dover, where he may embark at once for France. I have been
deceived, fearfully betrayed — made a wreck of, both of my trust
and honour. But the guest of the wife I wronged, the son of him
my weakness has betrayed, shall quit the land at least in safety."

Charles bowed stiffly. Dear as his personal safety was to him,
he could not bring his tongue to thank the man whose weakness
had proved so fatal to his unhappy father.

Do this," exclaimed Lady Fairfax ; " thy error will be in part
atoned."

These words seemed to give new life to the repentant husband.
Hastily removing his own military cloak, he gave it to his wife,
not daring himself to offer it. The prince allowed her to place it
upon his shoulders.

Farewell, madam ! " he exclaimed, bowing gracefully as he
kissed her hand ; " whate'er befalls, Charles will do justice to the
loyalty and faith of Lady Fairfax."

Sir Thomas dared not trust himself to speak an adieu to the
woman whom his suspicions had so cruelly wronged. With an
imploring look, which was far more eloquent than words, he left
the room, closely followed by his fancied rival. With a delicacy
which, in the agitation of the moment, was scarcely to be expected,
he led the fugitive through the Park into the Mall, in order to avoid
the sight of the scaffold, round which the people were still crowding,
many of them bribing the soldiers who guarded it to dip their
handkerchiefs in the blood of the royal victim. After a few
minutes' walk they were in the midst of the regiment which, by
Fairfax's orders, had been drawn up on the parade ground. Both

officers and men were surprised to see their general accompanied
by a stranger, who was mounted upon Sir Thomas's own charger ;
but respect kept them silent. Most of them were impatient to
learn why the execution, which they came expressly to prevent,
had been permitted to take place, jlome suspected treason, others
weakness, but none ventured to demand an explanation. As the
party advanced from the Park, Moreton's troop, which was at
Charing, received the order to march ; and the Presbyterians, at a
brisk pace, galloped down the Strand, and passed without opposition
through the City. Sir Thomas Fairfax kept his word. No
sooner were they beyond pursuit, than, giving the command of his
regiment to Moreton, he attended Charles with a sure escort as far
as Dover, where he embarked for France.

From the window of an apartment facing Whitehall, Cromwell
had witnessed the death of Charles. As soon as the preparations
were complete, and the military, upon whose fidelity he knew he
could rely, placed under the command of his son-in-law Ireton
in the position he had assigned them, the future Protector proceeded
to the chamber which looked upon the scaffold, and carefully
locked himself in, that no human eye might intrude upon
his solitary triumph. No sooner had the bolt shot into the socket,
than the moral mask which he had so long and painfully worn
fell from him, his countenance resumed its natural expression, his
deep-set eye dilated, and, as he paced with impatient heavy strides
the polished oaken floor, the beams trembled beneath his tread as
at the steps of destiny.

The day hath dawned at last," he muttered ; " the day so long
foreseen, so toiled for, and so won ! O'er all I triumph ! Rupert
Fairfax — Charles ! The Hand which hath directed me hath made
the virtues and the vices of mine enemies alike the instruments to
serve me. How few have reached a destiny like mine ! The
arbiter of kings — the man whom courtiers scorned — hath placed his
iron heel upon their master's neck. 'Tis great," he added, " noble
and sublime, to crush in a moment the tyranny of ages — avenge at
a single stroke a nation's sufferings — destroy the prestige which
enslaves the world by showing it what straws its chains are
made of."

The mild demeanour and dignity of Charles upon the scaffold
so completely changed the current of the speaker's feelings, that
more than once he was on the point of rushing from his place of
concealment and staying the execution. Perchance he would have
done so, had not the recollection of Lilly's prediction, and the fatal
scene of his own execution which the artful impostor had presented
to his view in the steel mirror, recurred to his mind and stayed him.

No weakness," he exclaimed, " no hesitation or balancing with
conscience now ! Some men who write my deeds in after years
may set me down as knave — ambitious, cruel ; but none shall paint

fool — say that, like a child, I threw away the prize of years of toil
and danger, or sacrificed my country's freedom at the shrine of
human weakness."

The speaker paused, watching intently the preparations which
were going on upon the scaffold. Little did he think that in the
opposite house of Sir Thomas Fairfax the " boy Charles," as he
contemptuously designated the Prince of Wales, was an agonised
spectator of the same fearful scene.

'Tis done," said Cromwell, as the august victim, having finished
his address to those around him, prepared for the block : " in a few
moments his spirit will stand before the judgment-seat of the Most
High. I'll meet him even there," he added, sternly, "and justify
the doom I have provoked to fall upon him. Now," continued the
extraordinary spectator of the still more extraordinary tragedy,
he lays his head upon the block ; a groan bursts from the people.
Let it ! It will not rise to Heaven against me. The Lord will
remember that the Israelites of old groaned for the flesh-pots of
Egypt."

There was a slight hesitation on the part of the executioner ; the
blood rushed to Cromwell's face, and the veins of his throat and
temples became distended with passion : in the excitement of the
moment he forgot that he was too far removed for even his voice
to be attended to.

Slave," he cried, "no hesitating now ! I would have offered a
sacrifice, and not a torture ! Strike, knave, but once, in ransom for
thy life ! So ! — the fool recovers his nerve ; it was but a moment's
weakness. It were to insult humanity to suspect him of its common
weakness. The axe is raised ! Would I could see the eye of Charles !
I catch it now ! It flashes as proudly as when seated on the throne.
Ah ! 'tis over ! How many tyrannies hath that one blow avenged ! "

Sickened at the sight of blood, for in his disposition he was by
no means naturally cruel, Cromwell slowly left the window, and
threw himself into an arm-chair, where he remained in gloomy
meditation. The wrestling of the spirit was strong within him.
The excitement which had sustained him up to a certain moment
suddenly gave way, and in its revulsion caused a despondency
which prostrated his nerve and resolution.

Lost ! " he exclaimed. " I have been tempted, and have fallen !
The hand of the Lord hath been withdrawn from me ! I have
mistaken the promptings of ambition for the inspiration of
Heaven, and am justly punished for my pride ! Why have I
fallen ? " he added. "What is it tempted mo ? "

It so happened that the crown, commonly called St. Edward's
crown, and the rest of the regalia, usually kept in Westminster
Abbey, had been removed by direction of the Parliament, to be
broken up and sold, in order to assist them with the means of
satisfying the discontented soldiery. These precious objects were

in the very room from which Cromwell had chosen to behold the
execution of their last possessor ; and as the words escaped his lips,
the imperial circlet met his gaze.

I am answered," he continued. " My sin and my temptation
are both before me. Thou cause of crimes," he added, apostrophising
the crown, " more numerous than angel pens can write, or
Mercy's tears blot out ! There is a spell within thy glittering
round to tempt men to their ruin ! "

A slight knocking was heard at the door, but the inmate of the
chamber either did not hear, or chose not to answer it.

"Tis power," he resumed, "of which thou art the hollow, fitting
emblem — power, the attribute of God, delegated to man for good,
but wrested oft for evil — power, which passion has so often made
a curse through him who wields it. In patriot hands it clothes a
land in smiles ; — so shall it do in mine ; my rule shall prove no
barren sway. I'll make my country's name respected — elevate
her in the scale of nations — render it a beacon for struggling
liberty to sail by. And my reward for this," he added, with a
sudden despondency, " perhaps will be the execration of my name,
or worse — assassination."

The noise at the door was repeated, and the voice of Ireton heard
demanding admittance. His father-in-law, rousing himself with
a sudden effort, drew aside the bolt and admitted him.

Now, what wouldst thou ? "

Has everything passed to your satisfaction ? " demanded the
intruder.

"Everything," replied Cromwell. "Was it for such an idle
question," he added, "my orders not to be intruded on were
broken ? "

No," said the speaker's son-in-law, who did not particularly
admire the tone in which his relative spoke, especially after the
service he had just rendered him ; "had I not deemed my intelligence
of importance to the Commonwealth, I had not intruded on
thee ; for, sooth to say, Father Oliver, considering the nearness of
the tie between us, there is scant confidence to match it."

Thy news, man — thy news ! " exclaimed his relative, with
feverish impatience, for he knew that Ireton was not a man easily
put on a false scent. " When the peril is past, if there be peril, or
the advantage won, we shall have time to bandy compliments."

There is a Royalist concealed in the house of General Fairfax."

I know it ; the fool hath served me a goodly turn without the
least suspecting it. I used the knowledge of his being there to
rouse the jealousy of poor Sir Thomas."

Had we had the Presbyterians as well as Royalists to contend
with, this day's work "

Had still been carried out," interrupted Cromwell, " though
Whitehall had run with blood. I had sworn to carry out the

people's sentence, and would have found the means to keep my
oath."

"And know you who he is ? " demanded Ireton.

Some silken courtier or companion of the boy Charles ; no
matter who — the trifler hath earned his freedom. Leave him to
Fairfax and his dame to settle."

It was Prince Charles himself."

Who ? "

Prince Charles."

Cromwell was thunderstruck, but did not disbelieve the intelligence,
which his knowledge of the opinions and character of Lady
Fairfax only tended to confirm. The importance of securing the
person of the prince immediately struck him, for he doubted not
but that the Scotch would proclaim him king as soon as they
heard of the death of his father — a circumstance which a week or
two later actually took place. His orders were brief and to the
occasion.

Where are the Ironsides ? "

Retired to their quarters. The only regiment upon the ground
is that of Fairfax and the guard around the scaffold."

"Send," said Cromwell, "and bring up troops. The Lord
smiles upon our work. My spirit fainted, but with a sign of grace
He hath reproved it. The boy is given into our hands, that this
distracted country may at last have peace."

Ireton, knowing that no time was to be lost, hastily left the room,
and hurrying to Whitehall, repeated his father-in-law's orders ; but
the crowds which filled the streets impeded the progress of the
messenger, as also the return of the troops, so that Sir Thomas
Fairfax and the fugitive prince had time to clear the City before
the Ironsides reached even as far as Temple Bar. Cromwell,
finding that pursuit would be useless, and, by provoking a collision
with the Presbyterians, who were enraged at the death of Charles,
risk a civil war, gave orders for their return ; he even respected the
residence and person of Lady Fairfax, whom his impetuous son-in-law
would willingly have arrested.

Pshaw ! " said Oliver, in answer to his proposition to that effect,
she shall serve as a decoy to her husband ; to injure a hair of
her head were to make the uxorious fool our enemy for ever.
Away at once."

As Cromwell predicted, the Scottish Parliament no sooner heard
of the death of their king than they proclaimed Charles II., and
sent commissioners over to France to treat with him for the
establishment of the Solemn League and Covenant, which the new
monarch was compelled to take before his subjects would consent
to receive him. The English Parliament, the very day after the
execution of the king, solemnly abolished all royalty in England,
and declared it treason to proclaim a successor to the vacant throne.

Men were thunderstruck-with the audacity as well as firmness of
the proceedings of the Independents. The division between them
and the Presbyterians became greater than ever ; and although Sir
Thomas Fairfax still retained the command of the latter, all men
saw that he had lost much of his former influence over them — a
thing easily explained by his vacillating conduct touching the execution
of the unhappy Charles.

In the evening which closed the day of expiation, as the
Independents profanely termed the day of the king's death, the
masked executioner encountered Cromwell as he was descending
the staircase which conducted from the cabinet into the banquet-hall,
now known by the name of the Royal Chapel. Soldiers, officers
and men, all drew aside as the supposed executioner passed, as from
a being in whose breath there was pollution and dishonour in the
contact. The moment he saw the future Protector approach, he
advanced to meet him.

Back ! " exclaimed Oliver, sternly, at the same time keeping
him at a distance with the point of his sword, which he carried in
his hand. " Approach no nearer to our person. The scent of blood
is on thee yet ! "

"We share it both," replied the man bitterly, for he felt the
degradation to which he had submitted ; " thine was the voice to
condemn."

But not the hand to strike," interrupted Cromwell ; " it should
have withered first. But I have scant time to parley with thee.
Thou hast performed thine office : 'tis but just thou shouldst enjoy
the price."

Remember thy oath !" said Barford, who, as our readers will
remember, had descended to the brutal office of executioner on
the express condition that if he proved an act of treason against
the man he hated, Cromwell should bind himself by oath not to
pardon.

I well remember it, and also the fellow vow made with it —
that should the accusation prove false or groundless, the fate thou
wouldst invoke upon another shall fall on thine own perjured head.
What more ? "

Conceal," said the unhappy slave of his bad passions, blushing
as he spoke beneath the sable mask which covered his features
from every human being, " the name of the executioner of Charles
the First."

"Why so ? " demanded Oliver, coldly ; "it was no part of our
compact."

The name I bear is, or was, honourable ; why brand infamy
upon the tombs of the dead as well as the brow of the living ?
Beware," he added, " how you set so fearful an example ! "

What mean you ? "

It may be avenged."

Do yon threaten ? " said Cromwell, contemptuously,

No."

"What mean you, then, by avenged ? "

Time," replied Barford, " may restore the Stuart's throne, and
view as regicides his judges. Set not the example of dishonouring
the dead."

Enough ! " exclaimed Cromwell, thoughtfully. " You have
my promise. What more hast thou to question or request ? "

Give me a token, at the sight of which — whether in the council
chamber or the battle-field — thou wilt grant me an audience within
the hour."

"It must be thy last, then," said the soldier, with disgust; "souse
it wisely."

It is sure to be the last."

Be it so," replied Oliver, tearing off the sword knot from the
hilt of his rapier, and tossing it to the disguised Puritan. " There
is my pledge, and now away. Be it in council-hall or battle-field,
at the sight of that remembered token I will do violence to my
nature, and once more see thee."

Farewell," said Barford, drawing his cloak around him as he
left the hall. "Give orders to the soldiers to protect my passage
to Whitehall stairs from the curiosity of the people and the rage
of the Royalists. Once there, I am safe."

At a sign from their leader, an officer and file of men left the
post, and forming a line on either side of the executioner, escorted
him through the crowd of curious idlers assembled between the
scaffold and the banks of the river. The instant the wretch made
his appearance a groan of execration broke from the assembled
multitude ; several stones were thrown, and two or three quiet,
determined-looking men made hastily towards a boat lying close
to the stairs, as if with the intention of putting off.

"where go you ? " demanded the officer who led the soldiers.

To "Whitefriars," replied one of the party, with a long drawling
tone. " We are of the elect who have come to glorify the Lord, in
witnessing the crowning mercy He hath vouchsafed His people."

"Possibly," said the officer; "but you must delay your
departure."

Why so, friend ? "

Such are the general's orders."

Motioning to one of the soldiers to make fast the chain of the
strangers' boat, whilst the others kept off the crowd which followed,
the officer whispered to the executioner :

Now, man of blood, is thy time ; depart in safety."

Barford leapt into his boat, and hastily struck out into the middle
of the stream ; at the time he reached it, a shot was fired from the
bank, and the solitary waterman was seen to let fall the oars and
sink to the bottom of his boat.

Huzza ! So perish the murderer of the king ! " shouted several
of the people.

But they were deceived; the assassin was unhurt, his bark
drifting with the current.

CHAPTER XX.

Immediately after the death of his uncle, Prince Rupert and
the Cavaliers who had acted with him in the affair of the executioner
at York left London, dispersing themselves in various
directions in order to avoid suspicion, and took the road to
Scotland, where the Parliament, incensed at the treatment their
commissioners had received at the hands of the Independents, had
already proclaimed Charles the Second, and were preparing, by an
army, to support his pretensions. The feelings of the Scottish
nation had been doubly excited in his favour by the death of his
father, and regret at the dishonourable part they had taken in the
transaction in selling him into the hands of his enemies ; but,
unfortunately, their assistance came too late. After several
actions, in which the Scotch were defeated, Cromwell and Ireton
embarked for Ireland, where a similar rebellion had broken out
under the command of the Lord Deputy. The horrors perpetrated
upon that unhappy country are, at this remote period, too keenly
remembered to require repetition here. Battle after battle was
fought and won by the forces of the English Parliament ; and their
general, who did not leave the country till he had crushed the
hopes of the partisans of the house of Stuart, rendered smiling
provinces waste, and confiscated vast tracts of land, which he
distributed amongst his officers and soldiery. "When all was ended,
his mission of blood fulfilled, and everything in the shape of
resistance crushed beneath his iron hand, Cromwell once more set
forth to London, where honours, such as have seldom been paid
to its sovereigns, awaited him. Nearly the entire House of
Commons, with the Speaker at its head, advanced to meet him.
A large sum was voted to him, and he shortly after took up his
residence at Hampton Court, where crowds of those whose instincts,
like those of the gnat, led them to bask in the beams of the rising
sun, daily made their appearance at his levees. Still the ambitious
dream of the man of destiny, as his flatterers affected to call him,
was but half accomplished ; much was done, but much remained
to be fulfilled ; the sceptre lay within his reach, but he wanted
someone to place it in his grasp.

The rays of the setting sun were faintly making their way
through the foliage of the noble avenue of chestnut-trees under
which Oliver was walking in contemplative mood. He was aware

that the Parliament began to mistrust him, and he hesitated to
commit himself with a body which had so lately given proof of
its power and influence over the nation by deposing a king and
bringing him to the block.

"Not yet," he murmured, "not yet; the fruit is barely ripe.
Were I to shake the tree too soon, the prize might still escape me.
Jealous eyes are upon me, and envy watches my footsteps towards
the seat of power. Precipitation might defeat the labour and
calculation of a whole life. Patience, patience."

"The hardest lesson success has yet to learn," exclaimed a deep
voice near him.

Cromwell turned to observe the speaker ; there was a frown upon
his thick overhanging brow, which boded no good to the intruder,
who was a middle-aged man, handsomely but plainly dressed, with
a small, viper-like eye, whose restless expression denoted active
cunning rather than calm reflection.

The portentous frown faded from the brow of Cromwell as soon
as he recognised the intruder, who was no other than the famous
astrologer, Master Lilly.

We had given orders," he quietly observed, " not to be intruded
upon in our walk, good friend, not expecting a visit from so noted
a gentleman as yourself."

We! " repeated the stranger, with a marked emphasis on the
word, for the royal pronoun displeased him ; " whom am I to
understand by ive, seeing that you are alone ? Certes, although
no courtier, I am too well bred to disturb a conversation by my
presence."

Cromwell bit his lip ; the irony of the speaker galled him, but
he was too prudent to notice it, for he knew the influence as well
as the activity of the man.

General," resumed the astrologer, gravely, " thou art yet too
much in the morning of thy power to despise those who both can
and will assist you. Thy sun has risen gloriously, but the horizon
may be overcast with tempests yet.

What meanest thou ? " demanded the soldier. " I am unused
to the mystic jargon of thy craft. Speak plainly, if I am to understand
thee. I am a man of but few words."

True, but each one is a volume to those who rightly read them."

For a few moments these two men, each remarkable in his way,
continued to gaze upon each other as if each would read the other's
thoughts. The soldier felt that the man of science might be useful
to him in working out his projects of aggrandisement, for he held
the threads of many a tangled intrigue; but he doubted his sincerity,
believing in his devotion to the Parliament, who had already gratified
his supposed services by large sums of money.

I do not understand thee," he said at last.

Shall I explain the difficulty ? "

Cromwell nodded assent.

"You suppose me devoted to the Parliament," continued the
astrologer, " because they have employed me in the affair of the
siege of Colchester, and others that thou hottest of."
True."

Tis true I have been, and am, their servitor. But tell me, what
doth the prudent servant in a falling house ? "

"Certes, he seeketh another service," answered the soldier, with
a faint smile.

Parliament is that falling house, and I the prudent servant.
Now dost thou understand me, Master Cromwell ? It was but
yesterday, when I spoke with Mr. Speaker on the subject of a
pension for my many labours in the cause of science and the
people, that he put me off with some stale commonplace about the
misery of the people, the necessity of retrenchment, and even
hinted at what he was pleased to term the ungodliness of my
pursuits. Success," he-added, " hath made them drunk as with
new wine ; as yet they know not its effects."

And what can I ? The ingratitude of the House may surprise
me."

No, it does not."

How so ? "

Because they are men ; and thou hast studied thy fellow-creature
too long and too closely not to know that men by their
very nature are ungrateful."

If such is thy opinion," demanded Cromwell, " why seek me ? "

Because," replied Lilly, ' ; thou hast not yet reaped all the
harvest thou hast sown ; because men, ingrate as is their nature,
are wise enough in this : they cast not aside the instrument until
the work is done. Once master, I should distrust, thee too ; for
but one clay was used at the creation of the human race."

Supposing that I have the views thou hast hinted at," observed
the Puritan — " which mark me, Master Lilly, as general of the
Parliament, I feel it my duty to deny "

Of course," interrupted Lilly.

'• I see not in what I could employ thy skill," resigned Cromwell.
There is a vast difference between reading the stars and penetrating
the designs of men."

Not so much as thou supposes. The influence of the heavenly
bodies is shown by their relative position — as Venus in the
ascendant with Mars denote love, while Mars in conjunction
with Saturn bids us prepare for war, pestilence, or famine."

I think I understand thee."

By the same rule continued, Fairfax in conjunction with the
Commons predicts thee ill ; or the expelled Presbyterians,
re-admitted to their seats, forebode thee cange ."

Cromwell started. He felt that either of the events thus

remotely hinted at would indeed be fatal to his aspiring hopes ;
nor conic he place implicit reliance upon the army, many of the
officers of which were fanatic Republicans ; still less could he
trust to the influence of the Independent preachers, who dreamt
of nothing less than governing the nation by means of a council
of elders ; in other words, establishing a pure theocracy.

And what dost thou advise ? " he demanded.

In sickness wise men consult their physician," was the guarded
answer of Lilly, who was determined not to utter more until he
knew on what footing his services were to be held and requited.

In asking thee the question," said Cromwell, " I made thee my
physician."

In that case," said the astrologer, with a smile — for he saw that
he had achieved his point — "my first step must be to obtain the
confidence of my patient."

Thou has it already."

Give me a proof that I possess it."

"Name the proof," replied the future Protector, doubtingly.

Ride with me to-night to London."

What to do ? "

Thine ears and eyes shall then inform thee both of the danger
which threatens thee, and the means by which it may be avoided.
Thou must be convinced, not only of my fidelity, but of the reality
of the service I have rendered thee, before thou canst place sufficient
reliance to render my ministry useful."

How so ? "

Because it is thy nature to be suspicious — to mistrust the
purposes of all mankind. I know not, with all my skill to read
the heart, which sentiment predominates in thee — scorn of thy
fellow creatures, or mistrust of them."

Thou art a close observer," said Cromwell drily.

Still the soldier hesitated. Much as he desired to know the
machinations of his enemies, he liked not the idea of trusting
himself in the hands of one who, till lately, had been attached to
the interest of the Parliament. It might be a snare to his
destruction.

Lilly saw what was passing in his mind, but remained silent.
He had no means of removing his suspicions.

And whither w r wouldst thou conduct me ? " demanded Oliver.

As I told thee, to London."

What to do ? "

To the house where those who are plotting thy overthrow are
to meet this very night — where, unseen, thou shalt behold them,
listen to their plans, and from their own words judge of my truthfulness."


I may be convinced of thy fidelity without that."

Impossible."

Why so ? "

Because, as I said before, it is not in thy nature. What dost
thou fear ? " demanded the astrologer ; " for thy life ? I could
take it by a hundred means — send death to thee upon the air —
hide it in thy gloves. Nay, at this moment," he added, " almost
within earshot of thy guard, send thee to thy last account, by
simply breaking this vessel at thy feet."

He drew from his vest a curiously-formed phial of twisted
Venetian glass, filled with an amber-coloured liquid, and hermetically
sealed. Courageous as Cromwell was, he receded three or
four steps, and involuntarily placed his hand upon his sword.

Pshaw ! " added the astrologer, " be not betrayed to a child's
fear ; assassins warn not those whom they intend to slay."

As he spoke he threw the vessel about thirty paces from him ;
it dashed against the trunk of one of the magnificent chestnut
trees, and was broken in the fall . Far as the speakers were from
the spot, the odour which it emitted was so strong that they were
compelled to retire to a yet greater distance.

Enough," said Cromwell, " I will trust thee."

Thou hast decided wisely."

When must we set out ? "

Time enough to reach London before midnight," replied Lilly.
And now," he added, " that I have named the service, it were
but wise to speak of the recompense."

It shall be worthy of me," replied Cromwell.

It must be worthy of me," added the astrologer.

"What must it be ? " inquired the soldier, with a half-scornful
expression. "Gold ? "

"No."

Power ? "

Neither."

Name they price ! " exclaimed Cromwell, impatiently.

Revenge ! " replied Lilly, with an expression so hideous that
even the iron nerves of the bold, ambitious man beside him were
shaken.

Revenge ! " he repeated, " revenge against whom ? "

One who is my enemy and thine. Is it a compact ? "

Be it so," said Cromwell ; " but look that thou deceive me not,
for if thou dost, as the Lord liveth, it shall be unto thee as to the
sorcerer and the witch."

It was finally arranged between those two men, each remarkable
in his way, that the soldier should accompany the charlatan at
midnight to London, and with his own ears listen to the secret
counsels of those who sought his destruction, Lilly promising to
find the means of introducing him in such a manner that his
presence should be unsuspected. With this understanding they
parted.

Cromwell, like Lilly, possessed great aptitude to read the
thoughts of others ; as the astrologer said, he was by nature
suspicious, and trusted few, and only then when circumstances
made it impossible to avoid it.

It is tempting, the star-gazer's offer," he said to himself, as he
traced his way back to the old palace of Wolsey, " and for once I
think the knave sincere," he added ; " but I will not trust him
blindly ; he may be set on by my enemies to lure me to my
destruction ; to strike, through me, at the liberties of my country.
I must preserve myself for the cause — for the people — and the end
I have struggled for."

His first words on entering the Palace of Hampton Court were to
direct the officer in attendance to go down to the guard-house and
send Dick of the Belt to him. The latter personage, ever since the
affair of the governor of Hull, had remained attached to the person
of the general, who did not respect him the less that, on the occasion
of Charles's attempted escape from the house where he
was confined by the Parliament, he had refused to be made the
blind instrument of his destruction. The poor fellow, immediately
after the death of the king, had been permitted to return to his
native town and marry the warder's daughter, who, accompanying
him to London, was received into the family of Cromwell, as an
attendant upon his daughter. While in Ireland, Dick had on
several occasions proved his devotion to his general, and twice
saved his life.

I have work for thee, Dick," said the general, as soon as he
saw the burly countenance of the soldier at the door of the apartment,
which had alternately been the cabinet of the priestly
founder of the palace, and the monarchs who had succeeded him.

I am on guard, general," was the reply.

I release thee of thy guard. Art well acquainted with the
soldiers of thy troop ? "

As well," replied the man, " as a hen with her own chickens."

Repeat me the names of six whom thou wouldst select for an
enterprise on the safe conduct of which thy life depended."

Dick of the Belt hesitated for a moment ; not but that he understood
the speaker whose round-about way of coming to the purpose
he had long been acquainted with, but that he might do justice to
the confidence thus unexpectedly reposed in him.

Will Beacon," he began.

Tush ! " said Cromwell ; " he loveth the wine-cup."

"When his work is done, general, not before ; he hath a quick
eye and a clear head — better qualities, I take it, in a soldier, than
the gift of prayer and the expounding of the Apocalypse."

Right," nodded the general, with an approving smile ; " go on."

Redburn Mat."

Humph ! well, proceed."

VOL. III. X

Mat is a roysterer, but faithful," observed Dick of the Belt ; " he
has the eye of a hawk and the keen scent of a bloodhound.
Hakabut, I know, general, gives him a bad name, because he is
not over-taken up with his preaching ; but he is true as steel. I
would trust your life in the hands of Redburn Mat."

But not your own ? " observed Oliver.

My life ! " replied the fellow ; " what were that in comparison
with yours ? "

Continue," said the general.

Goliath and Reuben Slightly."

Good men and true. Now for the sixth."

"Mark Feasted."

Mark Felstead ! " repeated Cromwell ; " this exceeds patience ;
why, there is not in my regiment a more profane swearer, or greater
wine-bibber, than Mark Felstead."

None the worse soldier."

He hath been punished twice."

It is not the hound most at fault that gets the soonest lashed.
Mark had promised not to betray his comrade, and despite your
wrath, he kept his word. Such men, general, are to be depended on."

Cromwell paused for a few seconds, as if to weigh in his own
mind the names thus called over to him. One thing at least he
was assured of — the fidelity of him who had selected them. He
also knew that he was as shrewd as he was faithful — had better
opportunities than himself for knowing the disposition and
character of the soldiers ; he determined, therefore, to leave the
selection as Dick of the Belt had made it.

"Call out the men," he said ; " those that are, like yourself, on
guard, I release them ; let them doff their uniform, and disguise
themselves as carriers and farmers."

I understand."

An hour before midnight, place them, some on Lambeth side of
v Westminster Bridge, others on the opposite side."

"The post is assigned, general," said Dick, respectfully ; "now
for the countersign."

Before the stroke of twelve thou wilt see me pass in company
with a single horseman. Without seeming to follow us, do not
lose sight of us for a single instant. If we enter a bouse, plant
yourselves so as to watch every approach to it. On the first alarm,
such as the firing of a pistol, force your way in. I shall require
your aid."

We will crack the doors like a nutshell."

Not for my worthless life," added Oliver, — " that is in the
hands of Him who hath made me His instrument, — but for the
cause of the Commonwealth and England's liberties, be firm and
resolute. I speak not of reward ; thou has already proved I am
no niggard to those who serve me faithfully as thou hast."

Speak not of reward, general. I were a dog did I require it as
an incentive to my duty."

Still it shall not be wanting. Now, then, away," added
Cromwell ; " select thy men and follow out the instructions I have
given. Dick of the Belt, I trust but few, but thou art one amongst
the few in whom I place my confidence. Farewell."

The rough soldier was more gratified by these few words from
the lips of his general than he would have been with the warmest
eulogium passed by any other man, even though it had been a
king. As he left the cabinet and marched towards the guard-house,
he walked with a firmer step ; Cromwell, the hope of his country,
had placed the safety of his life in his hands, and he felt the
importance of his trust.

That very night, long before the stroke of twelve, the solitary
passenger, hurrying to his home, might have observed at either end
of Westminster Bridge three or four fellows loitering about. To
judge from their dress they were countrymen or wharfingers ; not
the least sign about their person of arms or other weapon of defence
than the stout cudgel or quarter-staff which most of the yeomen
carried at the period of which we write. Still, despite their
pacific appearance, an observant eye might have detected that they
hal served, from their erect and open carriage.

Dick of the Belt, anxious to merit the confidence reposed in him
by one to whom he was so blindly attached, had been repeating
with nervous anxiety his instructions to his companions, fearful
lest the details of his plan had been misunderstood by any.

"Why, thou art as nervous, Dick," observed Redburn Mat, "as
if the life of the general himself depended upon our vigilance."

Or the safety of his pretty wife," added Mark Felstead.

Fear not, Dick ; we have received our orders, and it is quite
enough to know that we have received them from you to know
that they are of importance, and must be executed to the letter.
Father Noll," as the speaker, Goliath Slightly, familiarly designated
Cromwell, "does not change the guard for nothing Without
being as sharp-witted, I can see into a millstone as far as you
can'"

Hush ! " whispered Dick, " I hear the sound, of horsemen. To
your posts, and remember no one is to quit his post till I have
passed lam, when you are to follow, each keeping at about fifty
paces distance from the other."

All right," replied the men, in the same undertone.

Away, then."

As Cromwell, closely wrapped in his horseman's cloak, which
completely covered his person, passed over the bridge, attended
only by Lilly, he cast his eyes inquiringly around, and saw, to his
satisfaction, that his orders had been carefully obeyed. At the
foot of the bridge stood Dick of the Belt, talking to a comrade,
VOL i it. x 2

who, to all appearance, only stood to rest himself. A large bale of
goods, which the disguised soldiers had dragged from the neighbouring
wharf, rendered the deception complete. The third
soldier was sitting on it.

A smile passed over the features of the general as he saw that
his orders had been so well obeyed.

No sooner had he and Lilly passed the bridge, than Dick, after
shaking hands with his supposed acquaintance, in order to blind
any spies who might be on the look-out, prepared to follow him.

I see it all now," whispered the soldier. " Why did you not
tell us so at first."

Tell you what ? " said Dick.

That it was the general himself we were to look out for."

"The general ! " repeated the leader of the little party, in atone
of pretended mockery. "A likely thing, indeed ! Why, I left
him not three hours since at Hampton Court ! "

"And I tell you," said the man, " that one of the horsemen who
just passed the bridge was no other than the General of the Parliament,
Oliver Cromwell. I'd swear to his round shoulders, and the
way he sits his horse."

No matter who it is. We have our orders, and have only to
follow them."

Cromwell and his companion continued their way through the
deserted streets, till they reached a narrow lane leading to the
Almonry in Westminster, at the end of which a man was waiting.
On a sign from Lilly he approached and took their horses.

Whither go we ? " demanded Cromwell.

To the Almonry."

It hath an evil repute," observed the soldier, suspiciously.
Men who have broken all laws resort there."

Thou art still free to return," replied Lilly. " Conspiracy, like
crime, is compelled to seek safety in obscurity. Treachery plots
more securely in a cellar than a palace."

"Go on," replied Oliver, sternly. " We have not rode thus far
to return upon our steps no wiser than we came."

Still the royal ive," observed Lilly, with a sneer.

Entering the narrow lane, the speaker, closely followed by his
companion, walked rapidly on till they reached a low-built house,
with projecting windows and pointed gables, such as are still to be
found in some of the out-of-the-way nooks of London. The casements
were strongly barred with stout oaken shutters. The door
of the house was of the same material ; and Cromwell mentally
remarked, as he passed his hand rapidly along the surface both of
the windows and doors, that the studs were of iron.

Is this the house ? " he whispered.

No. But we must first enter here."

"Why?"

To prepare for our expedition. "We could not mask and
disguise ourselves at Hampton."

Without waiting for a reply, Lilly knocked in a peculiar manner
at the door, which was instantly opened by an aged man, whose
gabardine and long beard proclaimed him to be of the race of
Israel. Bowing with that humility which persecution had
rendered natural to him, he conducted his visitors to an apartment
at the end of the long passage, and placing the lamp he carried in
his hand upon the table, withdrew.

What means this mummery ? " demanded the soldier, pointing
to various costumes hanging from the walls.

It means that Isaacs," replied Lilly with a laugh, " pursues
more trades than one ; that the Cavalier who enters his house may
quit it a Roundhead, or the Roundhead a Cavalier, as we shall
presently assure ourselves."

It was not without considerable repugnance that Cromwell
submitted to the travestie which the speaker proposed. The desire
he felt to fathom the plot against him at last, however, prevailed.
They both arrayed themselves in peruke with long black curls
falling on their shoulders, after the manner of the Cavaliers, and
still ostentatiously worn by them in token of their devotion to the
Royal cause ; large slouched hats, with a drooping feather, replaced
the plain beavers ; black cloaks and masks completed their
disguises.

On striking the bell suspended over the chimney-piece the Jew
once mox-e made his appearance. Without speaking a word, he
took up the lamp, and prepared to light them from the house.

Had we not better first pay the man for his assistance in this
matter ? " demanded Cromwell.

He is already paid," replied his companion, " the hour is at
hand ; let us go forth."

Feeling beneath his cloak to assure himself that he had his
weapons safe, Oliver followed his companion from the house. No
sooner did he enter the street than he looked cautiously round for
Dick of the Belt,

The faithful fellow was standing under an archway directly
opposite to the house of the Jew.

He will never recognise me in this mummer's habit," thought
his general to himself ; " how am I to warn him ? "

He had to pass the court in their way. The astrologer walked
about twenty paces in advance. Dick, seeing two strangers, as he
imagined, approach, instinctively drew back into the shade with
his companions, scarcely venturing to draw his breath. The first
passed them without the least notice ; the second paused for an
instant.

Dick of the Belt," he whispered.

Heavens ! " the gen "

Hush ! " interrupted Cromwell ; " follow as before."

They continued their pace till they reached a house at the
extreme end of the Almonry, at which Lilly gave three knocks.
The door was opened as if by springs. Taking his companion by
the hand, he led him in darkness till they reached a small chamber,
lit by a single lamp. Carefully locking the door, he threw himself
into a chair, exclaiming :

Thank Heaven we are in safety here."

And what are we to do here ? " demanded Oliver ; " where are
the conspirators ? "

In the adjoining chamber."

How am I to assure myself of their design ? "

By the evidence of your ej*es and ears," replied Lilly ; " but
first let me extinguish the lamp."

"Do so."

As Lilly put out the light, Cromwell drew a pistol from his belt,
in order to be prepared for the worst.

Give me your hand," whispered his conductor.

No sooner did he extend it towards him than the astrologer led
him towards the wall, one of the panels of which he removed by
touching a spring. The aperture was sufficiently large to admit
the entrance of one person, who, from his position, could observe,
by peeping through the interstices of the carved oaken work of the
corresponding panel, all that passed in the adjoining room.

No sooner had Cromwell gazed upon those who were assembled
there than he pressed the hand of his conductor in token that he
was satisfied.

In the apartment, seated at a long table, were Fairfax, Sir Harry
Vane, Bradshaw (the President of the High Court of Justice which
had condemned the king), two of the Scotch Commissioners sent
to treat for peace, and several of the leading members of the party
in the House most opposed to the designs of the great leader of the
Independents.

From his place of concealment Cromwell heard the terms of the
coalition against him finally arranged ; listened to their plan of
proceeding with a cold, satirical smile ; for in his mind — fertile in
expedients — he already saw the means of defeating them.

I have seen enough," he whispered to Lilly ; " take me from
the house."

"But first my, recompense," whispered the astrologer, relighting
the lamp as soon as he had closed the panel.

"The recompense ! Ah, true ! name it."

The forfeit estate of anyone whom I may prove guilty of
treason against the Commonwealth."

It is much thou askest — a great thing ; but I will not be
niggardly with thee."

And an order to arrest and deliver into the custody of whomsoever

I think proper the person of a female accused of plotting
against the State."

Her name ? " demanded Cromwell, taking up a pen and
preparing to write.

Thou canst leave that a blank."

What ! " said the Puritan, sternly ; " have I taken up arms to
assure the liberties of England to trample them in turn beneath
my feet ? Shall I revive the Star Chamber of Charles Stuart ? It
may not be."

I tell thee she is an enemy to the Commonwealth," urged the
astrologer.

"No matter."

A plotter and a Royalist."

Still she is an Englishwoman," replied Cromwell.

A favourite with the exiled queen."

It argues not."

The soul of the conspiracy against thy life,' 1 '' added Lilly,
trusting to the instinct of self-preservation to vanquish Cromwell's
repugnance.

The safety of the Commonwealth prevails," sighed the Puritan,
signing the paper, and leaving, as Lilly directed, a blank. " But
beware how thou trifles with me, or abuses the influence which
accident has given thee to a bad end."

Carefully folding the document, the astrologer placed it in his
bosom, and conducted the disguised General of the Parliament
from the house. That night Cromwell slept in safety at Hampton
Court, and Lilly started off to visit his confederate, the unworthy
Barford.

After the defeat of Charles Ii's hopes in Scotland, the young
prince returned to Paris, where he was but coldly received by the
cardinal minister who governed, in the name of his sovereign, as
absolutely as if he had himself worn the crown of St. Louis.
Disgusted with the reception he received, Charles took leave of
his widowed mother, broke up his wandering court, and, with a
few faithful followers, retired to the States of Holland — an event
which enabled the old Knight of Keinton, his daughter, and her
husband, to return to England to look after the wreck of their
fortunes, which, thanks to the influence of Milton, the Master of
Wilton, and other friends amongst the Puritans, had been saved
from utter confiscation.

Herbert and Sir Malcolm were in London settling the terms of
the composition by which they were to be allowed to retain the
possession of their property. They had left the old knight's
daughter at the Grange, a country-house belonging to Henry
Yavassour, near Windsor. The very morning had arrived on
which the lady expected the return both of her husband and
father. With her host as a protector, she had wandered forth to

the extremity of the lawn to meet them, when a party of soldiers,
headed by Lilly, suddenly made their appearance. The young
Cavalier drew back and instinctively laid his hand upon his sword
at their approach, while his companion turned deadly pale, and felt
a sickness of the heart, as she beheld them.

Henry Vavassour," exclaimed the leader of the party, " you are
our prisoner."

Despite his resistance, he was soon overpowered and disarmed.

Oh, treat him gently," exclaimed Mary, ' k if you are men ! "

"You, Lady of Stained, must accompany him."

I ! on what pretext ? " demanded the astonished lady.

Ay, on what pretext ? " repeated a low musical voice, and a
gentleman plainly but elegantly dressed, who had been a concealed
spectator of the arrest, interposed between the astrologer and the
lady.

Though years had elapsed since she last heard it, Mary recognised
the tone of that deep voice. It was the friend of her absent
husband, the poet Milton.

The order of the General of the Parliament," replied Lilly.

Let me see it."

The blank warrant was given into his hand; he read it carefully,
and the flash of scorn lit up his noble visage.

This is informal. Here is no name."

The commission is from the General of the Parliament," said
Lilly, " in all but name a king."

And my commission," replied Milton, drawing his sword, " is
from the King of kings. It bids me shelter a defenceless woman.
Back, ruffian ! back ! Thou hast no right to harm her. Soldiers,"
he added, " this warrant, to which the signature of Cromwell is
attached, names not the party against whom it is to be employed.
Thus," he added, " I annihilate the worthless deed, and trample
upon the fragments as those who employ it would trample on the
liberties of the people. If any seek my name, that man will vouch
that he who has done this is Secretary to the Parliament."

The disappointed astrologer retired with only Vavassour as his
prisoner.

CHAPTER XXI.

LILLY, disappointed of his prey, retreated to his confederate,
Barford, who, led by the blind impulse of his jealous hate, had
purchased the assistance of the astrologer at an exorbitant price in
ready cash, and the promise of sharing with him the forfeited
estates of the old Knight of Keinton and Herbert of Cranfield,
should they be enabled by their joint endeavours to prove aught
like treason to the Commonwealth against them.

The struggle between the rival parties — thanks to the sword and
vigilance of Cromwell — had ceased. The tired country, anxious to
enjoy repose, welcomed, or rather submitted to, the Protectorship
which the fanatics of the Independent party conferred upon their
leader. They would have added a crown, and indeed addresses
were presented to him praying him to assume at once the regal
dignity, which he wisely but reluctantly declined. The Protectorship,
to reward his abnegation, was made hereditary in his family.
Then it was that the character of Cromwell shone, if not in its
purest, at least its most brilliant light. England, beneath his rule,
reached a prosperity to which it had been for the last two reigns a
perfect stranger. Its commerce was respected, its laws, except
where political causes interfered, equitably administered, its name
respected by foreign nations. Cromwell was the first to restrain
the license and privileges of the representatives of foreign powers.
The brother of the Ambassador of Portugal having stabbed a man,
sought refuge in the house of the minister. The Protector, despite
the remonstrances of the diplomatic body, Who were jealous of their
inviolability, caused him to be dragged from the protection of his
brother, tried, and executed — an example which for a long time
restrained the license of the servants and persons attached to the
representatives of foreign powers within a proper limit.

Although the estates of Sir Malcolm Keinton and Herbert of
Cranfield were sequestered, for the part they had taken in the
Royal cause, and the assistance given to Charles II. in his attempt
in Scotland, thanks to the influence of Milton, they were
not confiscated. The impoverished Royalists resided in a mansion
known as the Old Manor House, in Cambridge, awaiting patiently
until better days should dawn.

Here they were frequently* visited, not only by the illustrious
poet, but by the Master of Wilton, both of whom stood so high
in the Protector's favour that those whom they honoured with
their love were safe from open aggression.

The Independents, not content with having driven the clergy of
the Established Church from their livings into poverty and exile,
began to cast greedy eyes upon the universities, and demanded
their suppression. The alleged crime of those seats of learning
was their prelatical doctrines, and obstinate adhesion to the
Episcopal form of worship ; their real one, the wealth with which
the piety of our ancestors had endowed them. The spoil was too
rich to escape the avarice of men who regarded every means by
which they could enrich themselves as lawful. A commission
was accordingly appointed to visit the universities. Ireton,
Newlight, an Independent minister Gordon, and several of the
personal friends of Cromwell, were members of it.

There are many still living who recollect the Manor House in
Jesus-lane, with its quaint gables, Elizabethan windows, old-fashioned

sun-dial, and fountain, whose sparkling waters rose and
fell in the granite basin like things of life and joy.

It was at the close of a lovely evening in August that a family
party were gathered round that picturesque fountain, partaking of
their light repast. At the head of the table was seated Sir
Malcolm Keinton, his venerable white locks falling over his
shoulders ; his clear blue eye was bright as ever, and his countenance
still retained traces of its former manly beauty ; but its
determination, character, and expression, were gone. Time, which
had laid its iron hand gently upon his person, had not spared his
mind. At times the old man's memory wandered, and he spoke of
the martyred king as if he were still living and seated upon the
throne. Behind the knight's chair, erect as ever, stood the faithful
servitor, Martin the huntsman, who would suffer no one else to
attend upon his aged master. It was astonishing with what
patience the faithful creature endured his childish bursts of passion.
At times the knight imagined himself at Keinton, and previous to
retiring to rest would give orders for the next day's chase — orders
which Martin would receive with imperturbable gravity, demand
what horse his honour would be pleased to ride, what cover should
be drawn, and leave the poor old Royalist, like a pleased child, to
sink to sleep under the impression that he was still the master of
broad lands and a train of blue-coated servitors.

At his right hand sat the lady of Cranfield, his daughter Mary, no
longer the sylph-like girl who used to roam through the woods of
Keinton with the Master of Wilton or Herbert for a protector ; buta
graceful matron, whose still lovely person received an additional
charm from the half-sad, half-anxious expression of her countenance.
At the lower end of the table was seated a boy, about fourteen
years of age, and two beautiful girls, Rose and Ellen, the twin
daughters of Mary and Herbert.

Herbert himself was absent ; hence the shade of anxiety visible
upon the countenance of his wife.

Why loiter the varlet ? " exclaimed the knight, in a querulous
tone. " The bell hath rung from the north tower ; 'tis time that
I was served. Mary," he added, in a voice of childish affection,
thou must keep better order with the knaves when thou art
grown a woman and mistress of Keinton."

"I'll do my best, father," answered the lady, with a quiet smile.

Grandfather," whispered the boy to one of his sisters, "still
thinks himself in his old hall. It was but the other day he called
me to him, and gravely gave me a certain black horse, which I
have often heard old Martin boast of having ridden twenty years
ago."

Grandfather is very good," replied the girl ; " if his memory
wanders, his heart is still unchanged — still beats with love for us
all. But see, here comes our father."

And a stranger with him," observed the boy.

The shade of anxiety which for the last hour had clouded the
brow of the mistress of the Old Manor House gave way to a placid
smile as she saw her husband approach. He was accompanied by
a stranger, whose dress denoted that he had travelled far — it was
stained and worn in several places ; his features were strongly
marked, and, without being absolutely ugly, were anything but
pleasing, except when he smiled ; then there was an expression of
heartiness and good humour which made him look almost handsome.
The experienced eye of the Lady of Cranfield saw at once,
from the graceful bow with which he replied to her salutation, that
however homely the appearance of the stranger, whom her
husband introduced to her as Mr. James, of Kirk Moor, he had
mingled in courtly scenes, and was not to be judged by his
appearance.

The idea was still further confirmed by the profound deference
with which her husband treated him — a deference which Mr.
James, of Kirk Moor, received with the easy indifference of one
who had been all his life used to it.

If the impression occasioned by his first appearance was
unfavourable, it soon wore away before the flow of spirits and
irresistible good humour of the stranger, who talked of falconry
with the old knight, war with his grandson, and of their flowers
and birds with Rose and Ellen, who after an hour's acquaintance
wondered how they had ever been so blind as to think him plain.

It was some time before Sir Malcolm, who was a great stickler
for etiquette, yielded to the advances of his unbidden guest, but
even his reserve at last gave way ; he either forgot or forgave his
unseemly costume ; and when the old knight, leaning on the
arm of Martin, rose from table to return to the house, he gravely
bade the stranger welcome to Keinton, and invited him to spend
some days, at the same time proffering him the use of his steed
and hounds in the event of his being unprovided for sporting.

See to it, Martin," added the old man ; " let the gentleman be
well mounted."

Certainly, Sir Malcolm," replied Martin, with a face as serious
as his master's.

We must not take him by his looks," continued the old knight,
half-aside ; " he may have good blood in him, although his coat
wants grooming."

Certainly — ahem ! this way, Sir Malcolm," said the old huntsman,
endeavouring to draw the knight away, that the stranger might
not overhear his comments on his appearance.

I am almost certain I have seen that face before — I am sure
I have seen it before ; but whether at Court or Tyburn I can't
recollect. Good evening sir ! Once more welcome to our poor
manor of Keinton."

These last words were uttered as the faithful Martin gently led
his master towards the house. Herbert looked confused, and
Mary blushed deeply, for she felt convinced that the stranger must
have overheard the extraordinary comments of her father. She
was about to frame something in the shape of an apology, when
Mr. James at once set her at ease by observing, as he watched the
knight's and Martin's progress towards the house :

What a noble ruin ! The Knight of Keinton must have been a
stout man in his day ! "

'• Ay, but misfortunes, sir, have changed him. At times, as you
perceive, he still thinks himself in his ancestral halls at Keinton.
You will forgive "

Forgive ! " interrupted the stranger ; " dear lady, I have
nothing to forgive. Who can repine to find his rank misconstrued
when he sees one formed to adorn a court the inmate of this
secluded dwelling ? And to confess the truth," he added with a
smile, " your father, lady, was in the right ; I am one of those
who require grooming to set them off."

It is the king," whispered Herbert to his wife, who would
have bent the knee had not the presence of her children restrained
her. Despite her courage, she turned pale at the intelligence,
which no less surprised than terrified her, for since her husband's
absence she had heard of the arrival of the commissioners named
by Cromwell to inquire into the abuses and deal with the malignant
of the university.

'• You see, madam," said Charles, advancing towards her, " it is I
who ought to crave pardon for drawing danger to a home of so
much happiness and love."

We are familiar with it, sire, and prepared to meet it."

The pale cheek of the Lady of Cranfield belied the words which
loyalty and a high sense of the courtesy due to her unfortunate
guest compelled her to pronounce.

I shall be your guest but for a few hours, lady," added the
monarch ; "at midnight I am to meet my faithful counsellor, Lord
Wilmot, who has long been concealed in the neighbourhood."

Your majesty will at least pass the night under our humble
roof ? "

The prince bowed his thanks and acceptance of the hospitality
so generously offered. We say generously, for, by the then existing
law, it was death to any who either sheltered or assisted him ; and
Cromwell, by means of his numerous spies, had a knowledge of
what passed in the dwelling of most of the Royalists.

That very night the commissioners arrived in Cambridge.

Herbert," said the proscribed king, as his host, after lighting
him to his chamber, was about to withdraw, "are you acquainted
with an old man known in the country by the name of Mat of the
Cottage ? "

By report only, sire ; he bears an evil name. The common
people look upon him with fear and aversion ; although, I believe,
in the way of witchcraft, he does much good amongst them'"

"Whereabouts is his residence ? " demanded Charles.

In the narrow lane over the ferry bridge, on the Chesterton side
of the common. But if not too curious, may I inquire what
interest your majesty can possibly take in such a person ? "

This person, as you designate him, has a name as noble as
your own."

Indeed ! "

Of a loyalty as proved. Not to mystify thee, man, he is no
other than the devoted servant of our royal father — the Lord
Wilmot,"

Lord Wilmot ! " repeated Herbert, with astonishment ; " in
such a disguise ! Living in the heart of England with a price set
upon his head ! "

Which he has hitherto contrived, despite the tyrant's
proclamations, to keep upon his shoulders, and will, I trust, till
we can prove our gratitude by gracing it with an earl's coronet. It
is of the utmost importance that I should see him. Can you
contrive to give me egress from the house unperceived and alone ? "

Alone, sire ! " repeated his host, reproach nl\j. " No, it
never shall be said that Herbert of Cranfield so far forgot the
bounties of your royal house bestowed upon his race as to permit
his sovereign to leave the shelter of his roof unattended and
unprotected. I am ready to accompany you."

Reflect — the adventure is one of danger."

I never yet shrank from it, sire, in a just cause."

But your wife ? " urged Charles, who at this period of his life
was far from being the heartless, selfish character which he
displayed when seated on the throne.

"Knows no compromise with duty, sire. She is a soldier's
daughter and a soldier's wife."

Your children ? " added the king.

'* Must never live to blush for their father."

Be it so, then, since you insist upon it. Odds fish, man, but
thou hast a gallant heart ! Had all our soldiers felt like thee at
Worcester, the fate of the day had, perchance, been different, and
the boy Charles, as the regicide contemptuously terms me, been
seated in his father's seat."

I yet shall see you fill it, sire," observed his host. " England
will one day recover from its drunken folly, and welcome back
with joy its legitimate ruler. I have faith in the repentance of the
people, who are already tired of their new ruler's iron sway. I
will but prepare my wife for our departure, and in a few moments
return to attend your majesty."

Herbert bowed and withdrew. Charles, left to himself, paced

the floor of his chamber for some time in silence. The position in
which he had placed himself by returning unsupported to England
was a critical one. A price was set upon his head — his person was
well known to many of the Independents ; the least imprudence
on his part, or treachery in those in whom he was compelled to
confide, might open again the fatal window at Whitehall. Despite
his courage, he shuddered as he reflected upon the risk he ran, and
almost wished himself safe back with his little court at the Hague.

Pshaw ! " he exclaimed, " the very rashness of the enterprise
insures its success. The tyrant will not suspect that his outraged
king has ventured to visit his kingdom proscribed and alone. If
Wilmot's project should succeed, I shall recover my crown ; if not,
the Dutch lugger which waits me off the coast of Lynn insures me
the means of flight. I must not, however, intrust Herbert with
my plans ; his chivalrous nature would cavil at the means of
success Wilmot can sound him when I am safe on board ; should
he refuse to aid, his loyalty will at least bind him to silence."

I am ready, sire," said his host, entering the chamber, with a
couple of horsemen's cloaks upon his arm, and Avell armed.
"These will at least protect us from the inclemency of the night,
which. I regret to say, promises to be a rough one. As for other
enemies," he added, " should we encounter them, we are equally
prepared."

He pointed to the weapons, which he laid upon the table as he
spoke.

In a few minutes both the king and Herbert were armed and
enveloped in their mantles.

"Take my hand, sire," whispered the latter, after carefully
extinguishing the light, "and follow me in silence. By the
servants' hall we may gain the garden unperceived, and reach the
common."

Are all the house asleep ? "

"All but my wife, whose prayers are for your majesty's safe
return."

Stealthily as they crept along the corridor, their footsteps
awakened the attention of an old man who for some months past
had been taken to assist in the household out of charity. He was
a grey-haired, hard-featured gyp, or college servitor, whom the
Independents had thrust from his service to make room for a
creature of their own. His fate, however, met with little sympathy
but from the family at the Manor House, for during his long life
he had never been known to give to the poor, or express sympathy
with any human being ; in the town he was generally known by
the name of " Gripe the Miser." Although neither Herbert nor
Lady Mary had ever held any intercourse with Mat of the Cottage,
as Lord Wilmot was generally called, the benevolence of the latter
had induced her, on hearing that the recluse was ill, to forward to

L-

him, by means of Gripe, such assistance as her limited means
would allow ; hence the old man was perfectly acquainted with
the road to the hut and its generally dreaded inmate.

Instead of feeling grateful for the kindness with which he had
been received and sheltered, the old gyp was hourly on the alert
to detect something which might lead to his advantage — the clue
to some plot or Royalist conspiracy. So retired had been the life
hitherto led by the family at the Manor House that he had almost
given up the hope in despair, when the arrival of the stranger
excited his suspicions ; hence he alone of all the household
watched.

I hear them," muttered the old wretch, as Charles and his host
crept cautiously past the door of his chamber. " Fortune smiles
upon the old man at last. I shall have something to report to the
commissioners — something to make gold by ! — gold ! gold ! " And
he hastily donned his jerkin to follow them, still murmuring the
name of his yellow idol between his thin, parchment-like lips.

Cautiously opening the door, he crept after them, watched them
from the window at the end of the corridor till he lost sight of
them on the common, and then, hastening down the staircase, with
the keen scent of the bloodhound prepared to follow them.

The night was so dark that he was enabled to follow them closely
without being perceived ; the heavy splashing of the rain, which
fell in torrents, prevented the echo of his footsteps from being
heard.

They are going to the ferry bridge," he thought ; " and where
then ? Ah, to the cottage ! Mat ! I see it all ; I always thought
that the recluse was other than he seemed. They must have long
armis," he added, with a chuckle, " who would play at hide-and-seek
with me."

Assisted by his knowledge of the way, the old wretch contrived,
by scrambling over one or two of the ditches which intersected
the common, to pass over the bridge before them. Hastening
down the lane, he concealed himself in a coppice, which commanded
a view of the door of the hut, so that he could see all who
either entered or left it. Charles and Herbert shortly after arrived,
and halted close to the spot where the spy was concealed.

Not a step farther," whispered the king ; " I must converse
with Lord Wilmot alone."

So," said Gripe to himself, " Mat of the Cottage is no other than
Lord Wilmot ! That is worth a hundred pounds at least."

Remain here till my departure. Horses are concealed behind
the hut. Wilmot will accompany me on the road to Ely,. where I
am to meet sure friends, who will conduct me on my way to Lynn.

Should anyone approach "

I will warn your majesty by blowing thrice upon my bird-call.'



"Majesty ! " repeated the astonished listener to himself ; "twenty
thousand pounds are on his head ! God smiles on me at last ; the
old man will be rich before he dies."

Be it so," said Charles ; " in the morning Wilmot will communicate
to you our intentions. Farewell. Whatever be the
result of this night's interview — and I will not conceal from you
that my last hope depends upon it — in exile or on the throne,
Charles will be your debtor."

Farewell, sire," replied Herbert, kissing the speaker's hand ;
I will return as far as the bridge ; no one can pass either from
the town or Chesterton without crossing it. Woe be to him that
attempts it, for I am well armed, and seldom miss my mark."

With these words the speakers separated ; the king to his visit
to the hut, Herbert to keep watch at the ferry.

Could Gripe have seen his own countenance, in all probability
he would have been terrified with its expression, for he was
absolutely livid with disappointed rage and avarice. Wealth
greater than ever he had hoped for was within his reach, and yet
he dared not venture. He had seen too many instances of his
master's skill both with pistol and carbine to doubt for a moment
that lie would miss his mark. In his fury he cursed himself for
his folly in having left the house unarmed.

Had I but a knife," he muttered, " I would creep upon him
and bury it in his heart ; but I have nothing but my hands.
Trembling with age and cold, he would crush the old man in his
strength. Curse him ! curse him ! I may live to be a hundred,
and such an opportunity never be mine again ! Cromwell would
give gold — gold enough to content even me — to possess the knowledge
I have gained, and I am powerless ! Curses on my age — my
feeble limbs ! Curse them ! curse them ! "

Tears of vexation rolled down his cheeks as he heaped useless
imprecations on his own weakness. After an hour's watch the
aged spy saw Charles depart, attended by Lord Wilmot, who
mounted on horseback with him, and both took the road to Ely.

The next day Gripe was confined to his bed by a severe attack
of fever and rheumatics, which rendered it impossible to put his
design of selling the blood of those who had befriended him into
execution. The impatience occasioned by the delay increased his
sufferings, and Martin, who understood something of witchcraft,
was sent to administer a sleeping draught, which so far answered
the purpose that on the following morning the old man awoke,
feeble indeed, but free from pain and perfectly in possession of
his faculties. Had the faithful servant dreamt of the usage to
which he would put his recovered strength, he would have given
him a very different draught.

On the very morning of Gripe's recovery, Milton, Gordon,
Ireton, Newlight, and the rest of the commissioners were seated

in Henry VIII. 's drawing-room in Trinity College. On the table
round which they sat were the title-deeds of many a fair manor
belonging to the university, forcibly taken from the muniment
rooms of the different colleges. Newlight was busily occupied intaking
an inventory of the college plate.

** So, then," said Ireton, with a smile of satisfaction, " it seems,
gentlemen, that we are agreed in our report. The lands and
manors on which these worshippers of prelacy have hitherto lived
in purple idleness are to be confiscated to the profit of the State,
and the edifices disposed of as his highness the Protector and the
Council of the State shall think fit. Are all agreed ? "

No ! " said Milton, rising with a flush of indignation upon his
handsome, melancholy countenance ; " in my country's name I do
protest against the infamous spoliation. On peril of your unborn
children's curse, I warn you against the deed. Destroy not the
lever which may lift a people from ignorance to wisdom. Adjust
it — remodel it — adjust it, if you will ; but let it not be said in after
ages, when speaking of our glorious toils, that learning fell when
liberty was won."

You plead for these old rookeries," exclaimed Ireton, with a
sneer, " as for your mistress's life."

Because I love them," replied the poet, warmly ; ' ; each fretted
pinnacle is dear to me ; there is not a stone of these old walls but
seems familiar as a household thing. I have gazed enrapt upon
each sculptured tower as the last beams of the all-glorious sun
lingered in golden fondness over it. I have drunk inspiration at
their classic founts. I love them as a child should love its mother."

We are not to be moved by words like these," exclaimed New-light,
whose cupidity was excited by the inventory of the vast piles
of plate which he had taken under his special charge.

I know it," replied Milton, contemptuously, " and have
appealed."

'• Appealed ! " repeated Ireton, in an uneasy tone, for he knew
his influence with his father-in-law; "appealed to whom ? "

To Cromwell, who arrived last night."

The members of the commission were less surprised than
mortified at the intelligence ; for the character of the Protector
within the last few months had undergone a marked change.
The death of his favourite daughter, who died reproaching him
for his ambition, was a severe blow ; but the publication of the
celebrated pamphlet, "Killing no Murder," gave the finishing
stroke to his happiness. From the moment he perused it he
became restless, morose, and unhappy; saw in everyone who
approached him an assassin ; was continually changing his residence
from place to place, never suffering it to be known one day
where he intended to sleep the next. He was like a man flying
from his own shadow, but found, to his consternation, that it
VOL. III. Y

pursued him everywhere. Escorted by a party of his faithful
Ironsides, he had arrived the preceding night from Hinchinbrook,
his family seat, and taken up his residence at a farm belonging to
St. John's, about two miles from the town. In the gloomy, suspicious
state of mind under which he laboured, he had not even
intrusted his son-in-law with the secret of his arrival. Milton
was the only one to whom he had communicated it.

Gordon, a rough, brutal soldier of fortune, who had procured
himself to be joined in the commission in the hope of seeing an
estate out of the confiscation, was about to reply, when the door
of the apartment was thrown open, and an officer announced, in a
loud voice :

His Highness the Protector ! "

All present rose to receive him.

Casting a hurried glance around, to assure himself that none but
those upon whom he could rely were present, Cromwell entered
the room. His countenance was haggard ; care, more than time,
had traced deep lines on his strongly-marked features, which were
pale and sallow with the sickly hue of uneasy thoughts. Without
returning the salute of any of the commissioners, he several times
paced to and fro the apartment, muttering to himself — a sure sign
to those who knew him how fearful was the commotion which
raged within.

This is it," he murmured, " to toil for an ungrateful people ; to
break their chain ; raise them from serfs to men ! Men ! " he
added, with a gesture of contempt ; " spaniels ! Lash them, they
will crouch and fawn upon you ; raise them above the grovelling
level of their own base natures, and they turn and rend you."

Your highness," said Milton, advancing towards him, shocked
at the passion by which he was moved, " whence this mistrust of
all mankind — this doubt, too, of thyself ? — for he misdoubt himself
who hath no faith in others."

Read," replied Cromwell, turning sharply round, bit without
the least evidence of anger ; " read, and then ask me why. I have
done more for England than her hundred kings : her flag floats in
queen-like pride on every sea ; her commerce is respected ; I have
broken the people's yoke ; from the decrepit and worn-out carcase
of a feudal state have made an empire, strong and vigorous — and
my reward will be assassination ! "

Assassination ! " repeated all present, save Milton, each one
endeavouring to express more loyalty than his fellow by the
astonishment and horror painted on his face.

Read," continued the Protector, thrusting a paper into the
hand of the poet ; " read, read ! "

Milton's eye glanced over the proclamation, which was signed
Charles," and proffered knighthood and a reward of twenty
thousand pounds to whoever should do justice on the usurper, ashe

was pleased to style Cromwell, and avenge his royal father's
death.

Coward ! " exclaimed Gordon.

Wretched malignant ! " added Newlight.

Dishonoured gentleman ! " sighed Milton ; " assassination
would condemn the noblest cause."

u To every market-cross," said Cromwell, " I hear the accursed
proclamation hath been fixed. Till now I have been merciful
with the malignant; but, by my soul, I swear that from henceforth
I'll hunt them through the land. No pity, no remorse ! the cord
and axe shall be each traitor's doom. Man, child, or woman, be
they guilty, die ! "

At this moment a noise as of someone in altercation was heard
in the ante-room. The speaker started, looked suspiciously round
him, and directed the officer, who had remained since his entrance
into the apartment at the door, to ascertain the cause.

As he withdrew Milton saw, to his astonishment and dissatisfaction,
that it was no other than Herbert and Mary's old enemy —
the vindictive, disappointed Barford.

He here ! " he said, reproachfully fixing his eyes on the Protector.
" Cromwell, such should not be the associates of a name
like thine."

Where most are false I care not to pry too curiously into the
motives of one, if true ; besides, he hath the bloodhound's perseverance
and keen scent — hath already wrought one service, and
he is bound to me," added the regicide, " by a tie so strong that,
had he the will, he lacks the strength to break it."

Thou didst scorn him once," interrupted the poet.

And do so still," replied the Protector, impatiently ; " yet still
I use him. Now," he continued, turning to the door as Barford
entered, " what meant that interruption ? "

An aged man, who refuses to depart till he has audience of the
commissioners. He has a secret."

Pshaw ! "

Touching, he says, the Lord Protector's safety."

Admit him instantly," exclaimed Cromwell, " but first send
Dick of the Belt to me ; bid him bring his piece, and see it well
charged. More plots," he added, " more contrivances ! There is
some spell in royalty that men should risk their lives as things of
the lightest moment for a smile of it."

As soon as the reader's old acquaintance Dick of the Belt entered
the room, the speaker walked close up to him, and laying his hand
familiarly upon his shoulder, whispered :

Is your weapon charged ? "

It is, your highness."

And thine eye quick as thy hand once was prompt ? "

As quick as ever, your highness."

VOL. ill. Y 2

Enough ; we are about to admit a stranger to our person, a
grey-haired man, yet trust not thou to that — treason may lurk
'neath age. At the least sign or movement threatening our person,
fire."

I understand your highness."

The next moment Gripe was admitted, and related to the
astonished Cromwell that Charles Stuart had passed the night
within a few miles of his own resting-place — Charles, whom he
believed at the Hague.

May this be true ? " demanded Cromwell, looking round the
table as if to gather the opinions of those present. " S'death, this
old man trifles with us, abusing our ears with idle tales, incredulous
and vain."

"Idle tales !" repeated Gripe, not knowing he was addressing
himself to the Protector. " Your master would not treat me as a
dreamer or forger of idle tales if he knew that within an hour I
could place the Lord Wilmot in his hands."

Here Barford, who was standing behind the chair of Cromwell,
hastily wrote on a piece of paper a few hurried words, and left the
room.

Do this, and I believe all thou asserted, wild as it may seem."

It is easy to say do it," replied Gripe, " but how much am I to
have ! "

Knowing where the traitor lies concealed," observed Ireton, " it
is treason to conceal it."

"And the punishment of treason is death," added Cromwell,
sternly."

Death ! Pooh ! pooh ! You cannot frighten me."

Insolence ! this to the Protector ! " exclaimed Newlight. " Your
highness, shall I order him to prison ? "

Before Cromwell could reply the old gyp advanced to the foot of
the table, and stood with his eyes fixed upon him for several
moments in intense admiration.

"And art thou really Cromwell ?" he demanded, "he who is
rich with the spoil of kings — the heritage of princes ! How could
I honour thee ! "

Speak, old man ! " exclaimed the impatient regicide. " Thy
life hangs on thy words ! "

Gripe looked quickly up into the speaker's face before he
answered him, his deep-set grey eyes flashing anger and cunning.

You spoke of idle tales just now : I speak of idle threats. You
will not take the life of him whose word can perchance save thine,
for snares are spread to catch thee ! You dare not ! "

Name thy price, man ! — name thy price ! "

Aye, now you are reasonable," chuckled the old gyp. " I knew
we should understand each other. Make me commissioner with
these fair gentlemen for the confiscation of the college lands. I

can give information known but to few — can tell the value of each
farm and tithe."

Be it so," said Cromwell.

Thy word is sacred ? "

Not e'en my enemies have doubted it."

An hour after a party who had been sent to search the cottage
on the moor and arrest the disguised Royalist returned with the
intelligence that he had escaped, but must have been hotly pressed,
for he had left all his papers behind. One of these proved to be a
letter from Sir Herbert of Cranfield, in which he begged of Lord
Wilmot to give an inclosed letter — which was wanting — to the
king, and assure his majesty both of his own and son's devotion
to the Royal cause.

So ! " exclaimed Cromwell, as he read the fatal paper, " this is
the recompense for the indulgence, even to weakness, shown,
Milton, to thy friend ; but I have sworn the hour of mercy is forever
past. Barford, hasten to the Manor House ; I can trust thy
zeal in this ; arrest Sir Herbert and the young traitor, his son.
Thou wilt remain there," he added, in an undertone, " till I
arrive."

Mercy, your highness ! " exclaimed Milton, " mercy ! "

Barford quietly drew from his pocket the token which the
Protector had given him the night previous to Charles's execution,
and whispered in his ear :

"Justice ! justice ! "

Cromwell remembered his oath.

Is this," he asked, laying the letter before the poet, " the handwriting
of thy friend ? "

It is. Yet hear me — a last word."

Hear it from me," replied the regicide, sternly ; " he dies ! "

But his wife — his innocent, his virtuous wife — thou wilt not
dearest not," added the poet, " leave her to the mercy of that
villain ! "

The Protector advanced quietly across the chamber to where
Barford was standing, and fixing his eyes upon him with an
expression which few could bear unmoved, he said :

This traitor hath a wife ; respect her as thou wouldst the
honour of thy mother. Harassed though I am by traitors, beset
by assassins, I make no war on women."

Barford bit his lip nearly through with vexation, bowed, and
withdrew.

An hour later, and the Manor House, so long the abode of love
and happiness, was a scene of desolation. Herbert and his son,
arrested by Barford, had been conveyed to prison, and Mary,
frantic with grief at their arrest, borne by Martin to her chamber.

So," said Barford, as he paced the hall, " this for years has been
my rival's home of love. I have changed its joys to sadness. I

have lived but for revenge, and feel assured I shall achieve it.
Let Cromwell but minister to my hate in this, and the tie which
binds us is for ever broken. He is," he added, " the depository of
a secret which earth must never hear. I could not sleep within
my grave if I thought I left behind me a being who could whisper
over it, ' Here lies the executioner of Charles the First ! ' "

The ruffian's meditations were interrupted by a footstep.
Turning round, he saw, to his terror and astonishment, no less a
personage than Lord Wilmot, whom he recognised, despite the
disguise of an Independent preacher which he had assumed.

You here, my lord ?" said Barford. " I tremble at your danger !"

Faith ! " whispered the peer, " your warning came but just intime
for me to escape. Brief — I have seen his majesty, and he
consents."

The earldom ? "

Is solemnly promised in this document," continued the
Royalist, at the same time giving a parchment, " under the royal
hand and seal. The tyrant once dead "

I will send my weapon through his heart," whispered Barford,
who had long been in treaty with Charles for the assassination of
the Protector.

Here is a letter," added his lordship, " which you must lay
before the tyrant. It will prove the innocence of Herbert of
Cranfield."

'• Certainly," replied Barford, while at the same time he thought
to himself that not for his promised earldom should it meet the
sight of Cromwell.

Away ! " he whispered, as he heard the tramp of cavalry coming
up the avenue ; " it is the regicide himself ; he has the eye of a
hawk ; he must not meet you here — it were fatal to us both."

The peer took the hint and withdrew.

He comes," continued Barford to himself ; " the man for whom
I stained my honour, dipped my hand in royal blood ; who treats
me as his slave — a thing whom he has bought the right to scorn
and trample on. We shall soon be quits ; but hold," he added,
he must not see me with these papers ; his suspicions roused, he
would sacrifice me to the slightest of them."

Looking round the apartment for some spot in which to conceal
the important documents, Barford saw an old oak cabinet, in which
were preserved several relics rescued from the ruin of Keinton.
Hastily opening the door, he took from one of the shelves a
gauntlet of iron, the very one left by the wounded Puritan whom
Mary had sheltered on the day of the battle of Edge Hill. Placing
the papers within the glove, he returned it to its place, locked the
door of the cabinet, and thrust the key in his bosom just as Cromwell
entered the room.

But just in time," he murmured ; "just in time."

CHAPTER XXII.

"Are my orders obeyed ? " demanded the Protector of Barford,
as the latter bowed low to conceal the confusion which the unexpected
arrival of the man against whose life he was plotting
occasioned.

They are, your highness."

Herbert of Cranfield and his son are both prisoners ? "

Both," replied the traitor, with a flush of triumph which he
could ill conceal.

Cromwell walked towards him, and, fixing his eye with a
loathing expression upon him, demanded if he had scrupulously
observed his commands touching the Lady Mary ; for, inveterate
as he was against the husband for his supposed complicity in the
plot of Charles to assassinate him, the influence of Milton and the
Master of Wilton was still sufficient with him to induce him to
protect the wife against her remorseless enemy. Perhaps, too, he
felt a secret pleasure, even at the moment when he showed himself
the most severe, in showing that he could be just.

In every point, your highness," said Barford, pale with rage,
your orders have been obeyed : the traitors are in prison — the
Lady Mary's privacy has not been disturbed."

'Tis well. See thou molest her not. Cast but a pebble in her
path, and it Avere better thou hadst never been born. Eyes thou
canst not see watch over her."

Methinks the service I have rendered — my devotion to the
cause, deserve a different recompense," observed Barford, moodily.
Posterity will say that Cromwell cared less for his friends than
those who served against him."

Service ! " repeated the Protector, gloomily ; " ay, the butcher's
service. What tie," he added, proudly, "can there be between us,
thou thing whom I have used, have paid, and scorn ? "

My arm " exclaimed the traitor.

Performed the hangman's office," interrupted Cromwell,
calmly ; " not the patriot's. But enough of this. Were the service
upon which thou priest thyself but known, men would shrink
from thee as from a leprosy ; thy very blood would hate thee ! "

Barford drew from his bosom the sword-knot which the speaker
had given him on the occasion of the interview between them
which preceded the execution of the unfortunate Charles, and,
unmoved by the contumely which the Protector heaped upon
him — for he had recovered his self-possession — held it up to his
view.

Does your highness recognise the token ? " he demanded.

« I do."

And the oath which accompanied it — that, no matter who might

STANFIELD HALL.

intercede — how near or how dear the criminals might be, their age
or sex, thou wouldst be deaf to every plea of mercy ? "

Fear not," said Cromwell, with a bitter smile, " but I shall keep
my oath. Now, then, begone. In an hour a council of war will
assemble ; conduct your prisoners before them ; they have my
orders to show strict justice."

Barford involuntarily cast a look upon the cabinet which contained
the proofs of his guilt, and hesitated before quitting the
apartment. At the moment, he bitterly regretted that he had let
the important papers out of his possession, and he resolved to
return on the first opportunity to reclaim them.

"Not gone ! " exclaimed Oliver in surprise. " I am not accustomed,
sir, to speak my pleasure twice."

Barford bit his lip with vexation, bowed, and withdrew,
muttering, as he went, curses — not loud, but deep.

The earldom promised by Charles for the Protector's taking off
had fired his ambition ; and so deeply was he incensed at the bitter
scorn he had received, that he had even there and then attempted
his purpose, had not the conviction that in assassinating Oliver he
would save the life of Herbert restrained him.

As soon as he was gone, Cromwell threw himself into the easy-chair
usually occupied by the Knight of Keinton, and remained
for awhile buried in reflection. He had become suspicious of all ;
terror, like a cloud, encompassed him ; disappointment and bitterness
were at his heart. Many of his old companions in arms had
fallen from him ; the Presbyterians were secretly conspiring against
him : and he felt that he could only maintain his position by
unwearied energy and severity.

So," he murmured, looking round the lofty chamber in which
he sat, "another hearth made desolate. Yet why should I regret
it ? They would have ruined mine — why should I pity them ?
Fools," he added, " fools ! I would have made England the heaven
of the world — the altar of civil and religious freedom — the palladium
of humanity, had they had hearts or minds to second me.
As it is, what have I toiled for ? — an ungrateful people, who envy
me their fallen idol's seat. Alas ! they little know 'tis thorns.
In rising from their ranks I grasped a sceptre, but never found a
friend."

The speaker's meditations were interrupted by a deep-drawn
sigh, so near him that he fancied he felt the drawer's breath.
Turning in his chair, he beheld a matronly woman, whose person
still retained great traces of beauty, and an aged man with a venerable
white head and hair, kneeling at a short distance from him.
They had entered the room so silently, and he had been so absorbed
in his reverie, that he had not perceived their entrance. The
intruders were the Lady of Cranfield and the old knight her
father.

"How now ? " demanded the Protector, sternly ; " what do you
there ? Who are you ? "

A wretched woman," sobbed Mary, " who, if you incline not
your heart to mercy, must soon deplore a husband and a son"'

Ah ! the Lady of Cranfield ? "

The mourner meekly bowed her head in token that he had
rightly named her.

As for thy husband and thy son, woman," resumed Cromwell,
they shall have justice ; the tribunal before which I sent themis
composed of conscientious men who tamper not with truth ; by
their own acts will they be judged."

But circumstance," urged Mary, "may fling a shade of doubt,
upon the innocent; and then it is that Mercy wrests the sword
from yielding Justice's hand. I would pray for mercy," she
added, " but know not how to speak. Tears are my prayers ; listen
to their supplication ; send me not hence a widowed, childless
woman ! Be merciful, and every hour of my future life shall
bless thee ! "

'• Give me my grandson back," faltered Sir Malcolm ; " he is buta
child ! "

Old enough to conspire with his father, though," observed the
Protector coldly. "Justice must have its course. If innocent,
fear not their acquittal; if guilty, hope not their pardon; fori
have sworn never to show mercy more."

Unnatural oath," said Mary, shuddering, " when all have need
of it."

"Go to ! " said Cromwell, sternly ; "I am not to be schooled.
I, too, have daughters fair as thou art, who love their father — are
the light of his domestic hearth ; yet little the assassins reck of
them. They would destroy me, not in honourable fight, where
more than once I tamed their pride ; but with the dagger, poison,
or such means as cowardice and treachery give birth to. To pardon
foes taken in open fight may be imprudent, but at least 'tis noble;
but mercy to the assassin were the fool's virtue."

My husband is no assassin ! " exclaimed Mary, proudly.
Royalist, he loved and mourned his king ; as a knight he would
in open fight avenge him. But an assassin ! — oh, never ! never ! "

You speak it well," said Oliver, with a sneer, for he was
becoming impatient of the scene. " A Royalist, of course, must
be incapable of crime — a pattern of virtue. You," he added, " who
are a woman nobly born and gently nurtured, have, I doubt not,
smiled at many a patriot's dying groan."

You wrong me, your highness," replied Mary, bursting into
tears ; " indeed you wrong me ! True, I am a Royalist ; but never
have I smiled at grief or agony in any of God's creatures ; in the
hour of pain or danger all were alike to me."

All," repeated Sir Malcolm. " Why, it was but at the battle

of Edge Hill that she concealed in my house at Keinton one of the
rebel leaders"'

At Keinton ! " said Cromwell, starting from his seat and eying
the person of Mary with attention.

Hush ! father, hush ! " whispered the Lady of Cranfield, fearing
that the Protector was offended at the term "rebel leader," which
the old man so incautiously used.

And so you saved this rebel leader 's life ? " said Oliver ; " a
likely story, faith ! "

But a true one, your highness."

Know you his name ? "

"No."

Nor aught respecting him ? "

Nothing."

I know," interrupted the Knight of Keinton, who, with the
garrulous impatience of age, would d speak, " that he was a rebel,
crop-eared knave, and stole my best horse, Firefly — a traitor villain!"

It was in vain that Mary endeavoured to restrain the indignation
of the old man, whose anger at the recollection of the loss of his
horse made him forget in whose presence he gave vent to it.

Pardon him, your highness ! " she exclaimed, "he is old, and
knows not what he says. Age and misfortune have so bowed him
down, that broken memory confounds both past and present."

But this crop-eared knave," continued Cromwell, who seemed
to take a malicious pleasure in repeating the offensive words used
by her father, " have you no proof 'of the tale you have told me ? "

Except my word, none, your highness, none. Yet stay," she
added, suddenly recollecting herself, " in yonder cabinet is an iron
gauntlet, left by the fugitive in token of defiance of Prince Rupert
and the Cavaliers who followed him."

In that cabinet ? And the key ? "

I have it not ; doubtless 'tis with my husband. Oh ! be
merciful ! " she exclaimed, suddenly falling on her knees and
seizing the hand of the great regicide ; " one word will dry my
tears — one little word. Banish us to a foreign land, ne'er to see
England more ; but if you have a human heart, spare, oh ! spare
my husband and my son ! A child," she added, passionately, —
*' a noble, gentle boy — you cannot, will not, have the heart to take
his life ! "

Lady," said Oliver, " were there treason levelled at myself
alone, I might perchance forgive them: but through me they
strive to reach my country, drown its young freedom in my blood,
for a reason which thou hottest not of. I fain would bid thy son
and husband live ; but I have sworn henceforth to show no mercy.
I swore the same oath the night before Charles Stuart died My
wife and children knelt to me in vain. I dare not tempt my fate;
I will not break that oath."

If, then, the cruel men to whom thou hast consigned them
should condemn ? "

"They die," said Cromwell, slowly, 'although an angel's voice
should plead for them. Place thy hope in their innocence, for by
my soul thou hast no other."

The cold and marble-like expression of the speaker's face convinced
the suppliant that all hope of mercy, in the event of her
husband and boy's condemnation, was at an end. Laying her hand
upon her heart, as if struck by the sudden agony of the conviction,
with a deep groan she fell senseless upon the floor. Alarmed at
the sound of her fall and the cries of Sir Malcolm, who wept over
her with childish grief, both Martin and Milton, who had been
watching at the door of the apartment, entered the room. The
features of the old huntsman became nervously excited when he
saw the condition to which his beloved mistress was reduced, and
had he been armed, the result might have been dangerous to the
cause of it.

Remove her with all gentleness," said Oliver, kindly, " and
thou, John, remain with me."

Martin, assisted by Sir Malcolm, raised the still insensible Lady
of Cranfield in his arms, and bore her from the apartment, leaving
the Protector and Milton alone.

At what hour do the council meet ? " demanded the former.

"At eight, your highness."

Be thou there, John — watch the proceedings — see that thy
friends have justice at their hands, for I have sworn by the Lord
who hath raised me to be the champion of the people, that if guilty
I will show no mercy. Be dumb," he added, seeing that the poet
was about to speak ; " not even for thee, John, will I break the oath
sworn to Him who hath sustained me."

But for his wife ? "

Ask what thou wilt," continued the Protector. " Go, summon
my escort ; I will give orders that none approach the house, or dare
molest her. Royalist as she is, she hath a noble nature; and though
I have scant cause to love the worshippers of royalty, for her sake
I shall rejoice to find her son and husband guiltless. If not," he
added sternly, "they die, although her heart-strings break with
them."

Milton knew too well the determined character of the speaker
to think that even his intercession could avail after he had once
made up his mind to let justice take its iron course. His only
remaining hope, therefore, was to hasten to the scene of trial, and
endeavour, by every possible means, to defend the accused, and
see that they had fair-play.

Unfortunately, his late opposition to the scheme of spoliation
with regard to the colleges had rendered him obnoxious to those
who were named to judge Herbert and his son. Bowing, therefore,

to the Protector, he left the Manor House to execute the orders he
had received. Cromwell was about to follow, when an idea
suddenly struck him that he should like once more to see the
gauntlet which he had left upon the table in token of defiance to
Rupert. Advancing toward the cabinet, he tried the doors ; but
they were fast locked, and, as our readers most probably will
recollect, Barford had taken away the key.

Locked," muttered Oliver ; " no matter, my dagger's point is
strong."

After essaying several times, he succeeded at last in inserting the
point of his weapon into the lock and forcing back the bolt, and
the doors flew open. Cromwell returned the dagger to his belt.
Approaching nearer to the cabinet, he saw lying amidst a confusion
of odds and ends, such as hawk-belts, jesses, and relics of venery,
the well remembered gauntlet. With an air of respect, almost of
affection, he raised it from the shelf. As he did so, the papers
which the traitor Barford had concealed fell to the ground ; a
circumstance of which Cromwell at first took no notice, so absorbed
was he by recollections awakened at the sight of the iron glove.

"Welcome, old friend ! " he cried, at the same time eying the
gauntlet with an expression of affection ; " 'tis long since we have
met, and I feel pleasure at the sight of thee ; this hand since then
hath played at empire, wheeled the rough car of fate, and grasped
the sceptre of a line of kings. But am I happier ? No ; those for
whose rights and liberties I toiled misunderstand me — pine for the
flesh-pots of their ancient bondage, as Israel's race of old pined for
the fare of Egypt. What," he added, " to the soldier, patriot, or
poet, were this present life, but for the hope posterity would one
day do him justice, and unborn children reverse their fathers'
censure ? "

For some time the speaker continued his uneven walk, now
stopping before some portrait and apostrophising the senseless
canvas as 'twere a living thing. At the extreme end of the room,
under a recess of carved oak, was a picture covered with a silken
curtain. Scarcely knowing what he did, for his thoughts were
engaged on bitter fancies, he drew aside the veil and discovered
one of those magnificent portraits of King Charles which the magic
pencil of Vandyke has left to us.

In an instant the wandering eye of the Protector became riveted
to the picture ; his coarse features — coarse in their outline, not
expression — flushed ; it seemed as if accident had replied to his
hope that posterity would do justice to his character by raising up
the shade of Charles.

Why, ay," said Cromwell, forcing himself to gaze steadily upon
the portrait,. " the limner's art hath done its best ; not more faithful
were the reflection of the mirror than yon canvas. The cold, calm
eye, the lip of pride, the lofty brow and manly grace are there.

Why, I can gaze on thee ! Living I feared thee not, and dead thy
memory bears no reproach to me. Perchance," he added, " death
hath removed the veil which flattery weaves, with which cringing
courtiers, prating of right divine, blindfold their idol, and from the
world of shadows thy spirit does me justice : it must be so, for
there are no flatterers and but few courtiers there."

Soothed by the idea that Charles, freed from the errors and
prejudices of education, the doctrines of kingcraft so carefully
implanted in his bosom by his pedantic father, did justice to the
motives which had induced the arch-regicide to arm against him,
Cromwell turned calmly from the portrait, and walked towards the
door ; as he did so his eye glanced by accident upon the papers
which had fallen from the iron glove as he took it from the cabinet.

What have we here ? " he exclaimed, as he stooped to raise
them. " Ah ! I remember — they fell from the gauntlet even now;
perhaps some memorandum of the way in which 'twas left at
Keinton."

He was about to throw the papers back again into the cabinet,
when a seal, attached by purple ribbon, which had been concealed
inside the parchment, slipped through the folds, and hung dangling
in sight. Cromwell started as he beheld it, for he recognised the
arms at once.

By Heavens ! " he exclaimed, " the seal of the boy Charles ! "

Reseating himself at the table, he carefully examined the documents
thus accidentally revealed to him. The first was the
promise of an earldom and a reward of twenty thousand pounds
to Barford on condition of his assassinating Cromwell.

'• Good ! " exclaimed the Protector, with a bitter laugh — " good !
Charles ennobles his father's executioner ! Isn't enough to make
the angels weep and Satan laugh, to see how crime conducts to
crime ? Charles, whom I have beaten in the field, would assassinate
me, stab me in the dark, in the bosom of my home, the
presence of my children ; and to gratify his hate, cover himself
with eternal infamy by ennobling the executioner ! Fool, as well
as knave, coward, and villain ! The sword which struck thy pride
at Worcester may reach thee yet. Barford, too ! — the man whom I
have spared from scorn — he to seek my life ! But he shall die —
die in the flush of triumph — die with his sins repented on his
guilty soul ! Milton was right," he continued ; " an evil compact
hath an evil end."

The next paper was the letter which Lord Wilmot had given
Barford to lay before the Protector. It was Herbert's reply
addressed to the king, in answer to the proposal made to him to
assist in the assassination of Cromwell. It ran thus :

Sire, I am a soldier, but 1 am a Christian. Should fortune
smile upon your majesty's endeavours, and you again encounter
Cromwell in the field, I shall be ready as a knight and gentleman

to do my duty ; but till then his person is as sacred from any attempt
of mine as the life of your majesty itself would be. Whether justly
or unjustly condemned, I cannot be his executioner."

The letter was signed " Herbert of Cranfield," and concluded by
assuring the king of the writer and his son's devotion to his cause
and family.

So," said Cromwell, after he had perused it twice, " this is the
man whom false appearance would condemn — whom Bar ford
follows with relentless hate — whose life, unless I interpose my
hand, is as surely forfeited as he is guiltless of the crime supposed.
Tis well, 'tis well," he added. " I am glad, for the sake of England's
honour, but one wretch can be found to earn an earldom at
such a price ! An earldom ! " he repeated, scornfully ; " it shall
be conferred within the grave, then ! As for this letter, Heaven
directed me ! I yet can keep my oath, and pay the woman back
the life she gave ! "

That same evening the decision of the council of war, before
whom Herbert and his son were tried, was laid before the Protector
by his son-in-law, Ireton, who complained that the decision
of the members would have been sooner given but for the interference
of Milton, who had defended the prisoners with an
eloquence and obstinacy which, had anyone less than Cromwell
been interested in the result, must have led to an acquittal."

The verdict, man ! the verdict ! " impatiently interrupted his
father-in-law, not over-pleased at the attempt to excite his anger
against perhaps the only man whose probity he had never suspected.
What is the finding of the council ? "

"Guilty !"

And the sentence ? "

Death ! "

There was a pause ; a strange smile passed over the lips of Cromwell
as he thought on the fallibility of human judgment. Ireton
eyed him curiously ; but frequent as had been his opportunity, he
had failed to obtain the clue to the character of this extraordinary
man.

"When," he demanded, "is it your highness's pleasure the
execution should take place ? "

To-morrow morning, at six ! "

Have you any directions to give touching the manner of the
traitor's death ? "

Hamilton," replied Cromwell, sharply, as if impatient at being
questioned, " will receive my orders. To him and my faithful
Ironsides I confide the execution of the righteous doom. What
more ? " he said, seeing that his son-in-law was about to speak.

Not much, only Barford waits without."

What seeks he ? "

The fulfilment of a long-promised boon."

Fear not," said the Protector, bitterly ; " the promise shall be
kept ! "

Ireton shuddered at the peculiar expression of his father-in-law's
countenance. He had remarked it but once before — the day when
Cromwell caused him to intercept the letter which Charles had
written to his queen.

He solicits an audience."

Let him approach, then," said the Protector, "and stand thou
between him and me. I can trust to thy quick eye and ready hand
should he have evil thoughts against our person."

He ! Barford have evil thoughts against thee ! " repeated
Ireton, in astonishment. " Why I would as soon believe that I
entertained such thoughts myself. No, father-in-law, let who will
be traitors, I'd stake my life on Barford's faith."

Doubtless ! " exclaimed Cromwell, darting at him a suspicious
glance, for it had positively become a malady with him to suspect
all who approached him. " Send Hamilton and Dick of the Belt;
they see but as I see, hear with my ears. I have no doubt of them."

Nor of me, I should hope," said Ireton.

I hope so too."

"Look ye, father-in-law," exclaimed the soldier, chafed beyond
the observance of that respectful deference which he entertained
for the Protector, " I may not have the head to comprehend all
your fine strokes of policy, but I have a heart at least to feel when
it is outraged in its loyalty. If I never loved you — for you are one
of those cold, iron natures which few men love — I at least respect
you for your energy, soldier-like qualities, and courage. So speak
out. If you have any crotchet in your head against me, at least
let me hear it. There should be no doubts between us •, for if our
hearts and minds are separate, our interests are one."

True," replied the regicide ; " and that is often a stronger tie
than blood or kindred love. As thou mayest, our interests are one
i" am necessary to thee ; and therein lies my safety — I had not
thought of that. Go," he added, bitterly ; "lam satisfied thou
still art faithful."

Your highness does me wrong."

Admit this Barford to our presence," exclaimed Cromwell, in a
tone which Ireton knew, from frequent experience, admitted of no
dispute. " Go and conduct him hither : that done, leave him and
me together."

"True," muttered the speaker, as soon as his son-in-law had
withdrawn, and he was left alone ; " the bull-pated soldier spake
but truly. I am one of those whom few men love ! for few can
understand me. Those who see my ambition, see not that it went
hand in hand with my love of England's greatness. Those who
have traced the impress of my footsteps between the scaffold and
the throne mark not the foundation stones on which Liberty in

after years shall rear her radiant altar. Like some comet in the
heavens, the ignorant gaze astonished at my course ; the wise alone
speculate on the end and purpose of my strange career."

The door of the apartment opened, and Bars ord entered the room.
The few words which had fallen from Ireton had seriously alarmed
him.

He was uneasy lest the papers concealed within the gauntlet had
been discovered.

I shall soon know my fate," he thought, as he entered the
chamber in which Cromwell was sitting. " If his highness's
suspicions are excited, it will be but one step from his presence to
a prison. But I will not fall alone," he added, as he pressed the
pommel of a pistol concealed beneath his cloak ! " I am armed,
and prepared to meet the worst."

Cromwell, who was writing at a table, which he contrived to
keep between Barford and himself during their interview, at first
did not seem to notice the presence of his visitor, whom he kept
standing while he finished and sealed a letter ; when, suddenly
fixing his eyes upon him, he exclaimed :

So thou would'st speak with me ? "

I would ; and, if your highness's memory hath not failed you,
I would remind you of a service rendered, which gave to fate the
lie, and placed a sceptre in your grasp."

Go on," said Cromwell.

Of conspiracies detected by my perseverance."

Proceed."

Of long devotion to your cause and person."

True," said Cromwell, sarcastically; "we are somewhat your
debtor. Fear not but we will one day strike the balance."

To-morrow, your highness, tomorrow."

To-morrow be it then ; but how — and where ? "

By giving me the command of the party destined to execute
the traitors, Herbert of Cranfield and his son — her son," he muttered
to himself. " Do this, your highness, and every debt between us
will be cancelled."

It is a cruel wish," said Cromwell, willing to try if any spark
of humanity remained in the breast of the Puritan. "A very cruel
thing to gaze upon the dying enemy ! — mark the agony of his sigh
and thickening breath ! I, too, have hated," he added, " in my
time, but never felt pleasure in witnessing the sufferings of those
I hated."

But thou hast not been wronged like me," said Barford. " The
honey of thy life has not been turned to gall, thy cherished hope
to disappointment, thy youthful years to premature old age. All
this and more Herbert of Cranfield hath caused to me."

But his son at least is guiltless towards thee."

'Tis in his death I reach his obdurate heart. By Heavens !

not for the proudest earldom in a monarch's gift would I forego
the triumph of this hour."

Tis well," observed the Protector, signing a paper, which he
threw towards the speaker ; " take thy wish. Hamilton and the
Ironsides will keep the guard ; thou wilt command them."

"Your highness will not suffer any relenting visiting of
pity "

Interfere between my justice and its victim ? " added Cromwell,
No, By the Lord I have sworn it. I will keep my oath ; the
traitor's already doomed, and tomorrow's sun shall see his death."

Their deaths, your highness means," said Barford, " since father
and son alike are guilty."

Would st bandy words with me ? " demanded the Protector,
haughtily. " Away at once. Thou hast thy boon ; every favour
save one thou ever wilt receive at the hands of Cromwell."

And that ? " demanded Barford.

"Time will show. Thou hast rendered us a service lately,
assisted to unveil a treason to our eyes, and we are not ungrateful."

Before the traitor could reply, the speaker passed into an inner
chamber, leaving him alone. Although possessed of the authority
he wished for as a means of gratifying his hate of Herbert, Barford
felt far from satisfied. True, there was nothing in the Protector's
manner to excite his suspicion — he Alas even more condescending
than usual ; but with the consciousness of guilt the traitor felt
uneasy.

The papers were, as he believed, still in the iron gauntlet. He
had been twice to the Manor House to obtain them, but had been
denied admission. Milton, who, like a minister of consolation,
had taken up his abode there, produced an order from the Protector,
which Barford, desperate as he was, did not venture to
dispute.

No matter," he thought ; " the hate of years once satisfied, and
Herbert dead, I'll send my sword through the usurper's heart.
None 'neath my coronet will e'er suspect the masked executioner
of Charles."

That same night, Newlight, Hamilton, and several other commissioners
were busily occupied in the consultation room of
Trinity College, arranging the disposition of the college plate.
The preacher having formerly been a gyp, knew every secret
place in the establishment.

It was in vain that some of the faithful servitors had concealed
the most valuable portion, in the hope of preserving it for the
college. Piece after piece, to their astonishment, was dragged
forth. Not recognising Newlight, there was something marvellous
to their eyes in the manner in which he conducted his brother
commissioners from place to place, broke open the most secret
recesses, and secured the imprisoned treasure. The butler was in
VOL. III. z

mir ! Each one suspected his fellow, and the work of spoliation
seemed complete.

The plunderers were amicably discussing their arrangements,
when the door opened, and Gripe tottered into the room. The
fever of excitement which his nomination as commissioner had
caused — for Cromwell kept his word with the old man — had once
more stirred up the fever in his blood ; impatient avarice would
brook no delay, and ill as he was, he had left his bed the instant
he heard of the meeting. Hamilton welcomed him with a forced
grimace of politeness ; Newlight, on the contrary, with the oily
appearance of sincerity.

Take your seat, brother," he exclaimed, extending one hand to
him, while, with the other, he adroitly gathered up the papers
lying scattered on the table; "you are welcome. Alas! it is an
unthankful office you have chosen ; those who labour for the
welfare of the State are seldom considered in the distribution of
its favours."

Perhaps not," said Gripe, bluntly ; " but I intend to take care
of myself."

The commissioners exchanged looks with each other, as much
as to say, " This is an awkward customer ; we must get rid of him."

To facilitate our labours," resumed Newlight, " we have divided
the committee into sections. The first and most important devotes
itself to the inspection and management of the confiscated college
lands. Perhaps," he added, blandly, " from your experience, you
would like to take part in their goodly work ? "

Who are the commissioners ? " demanded the old man, bluntly.

His highnesses son-in-law Major-general Ireton, Gordon, Bradshaw,
and "

Enough," interrupted Gripe ; " I will not disturb their labours.
By the time such stomachs are satisfied there will be little but the
offal left. What chance should I have contending with such men ?
Go on."

Next," said Hamilton, impatiently, " there is the committee
for estimating and disposing of the college libraries and useless
edifices ; these no doubt "

Pshaw ! " said Gripe, " books ! what do I know of books, unless
it be the book of interest ? In a word, who has the management
of the sale of the college plate ? "

We," faltered the preacher, " have undertaken to "

I join your undertaking," said the old man, without giving
him time to conclude his speech ; " I shall be useful there. What's
this ? " he added, snatching a paper which Newlight held nervously
against his breast ; " ah ! good ! Inventory of the plate of Trinity
College."

That is a private paper ! " exclaimed the indignant preacher.

Gripe eyed him coolly for a second or two, and then quietly

told him that nothing could be private from the members of the
commission.

Let me see," he added, reading the list ; " ' silver fountain, presented
by Queen Elizabeth to the College on the occasion of her
visit, eight hundred ounces.' False ! by Heaven ! It weighs a
thousand ! I have cleaned it a hundred times, and can swear to
its worth "

"There may perhaps be some slight mistake," observed the
preacher, colouring to the temples, for even Hamilton was a
stranger to his brother commissioner's roguery in this.

Most likely," resumed Gripe, drily, continuing to read. " * King
Henry's gold wafer cup, forty ounces.' Forty ounces ! " he repeated,
in a tone of indignation. " Fifty-two, as I am an honest man."

It is false ! " stammered Newlight.

It is true ! " retorted the old man, striking his knuckles on the
table. " I had the care of it for more than thirty years, and have
weighed it over and over again."

At this moment Ireton entered the room, and informed Hamilton
that the Protector commanded his presence, to give directions for
the execution in the morning.

"What," said Gripe, "are they going to shoot the Knight of
Stanlield ? "

Ay, and his son."

Well, well, well," muttered the old man, " they were sure to be
betrayed at last, and I may as well profit by their death as another.
They were kind to me, very kind," he added, musingly, for something
like a pang of compunction for the traitorous part he had
acted towards them shot across his heart ; " but what could I do ?
I am old, very old, and poor. Few care nowadays for the poor."

As soon as Hamilton and Ireton left the room the preacher
declared the sitting of the committee broken up, and as the rest
were chiefly his or the absent commissioners' dependents, no
opposition was made, except by Gripe, whose anxiety to realise, ashe
expressed it, would have induced him to sit up for a month
rather than lose a chance of sharing in the plunder ; consequently,
he and Newlight in a few minutes were left alone.

Now, brother," said the latter, blandly, advancing towards him,
return me that paper."

No, no."

If there has been any error it shall be rectified."

It must be rectified. I see my presence frustrates your schemes.
The old man knows too much to be welcome ! Ah ! ah ! ah !
Eight hundred ounces ! — ah ! ah ! — a thousand, as I am a Christian

mani

"

Can you suspect," demanded the preacher, trying to assume an
air as like to injured innocence as possible, " that I would lend

myself "

vol. in. z 2

Lend thyself ! " interrupted his companion, with a chuckle ;
no, no ; I know thee too well to suppose that thou wouldst lend
thyself to anything."

I trust so."

But thou wouldst sell thyself," continued the speaker, " e'en
though the devil were the purchaser, so he but offered gold enough
not that I blame thee much for that ; it is a hard world, and the
poor meet but scant kindness in it."

"What dost thou mean ? "

That, despite thy bands and thy Geneva cloak, I know thee —
knew thee from the first."

Newlight started ; for, although he perfectly recollected the old
man, he trusted that long years of absence and change of dress had
so altered his appearance that none would recognise him. Like
Gripe, he had originally been a college gyp, and was dismissed for
peculation — like many a rogue before him.

This suspicion of one of my sacred calling — " observed Delight,


The rest of the sentence was cut short by a low, hissing chuckle
from Gripe, who, after he had fully indulged his mirth, answered,
and whispered in his ear the name of Barnes.

I do not understand thee," faltered the preacher.

Thou lies ! " replied Gripe ; " though that is nothing new — thou
didst so from a boy. Didst thou not rob thy master of his posset-cup,
and lay the blame upon thy brother — plunder the buttery for
the bed-maker's wife ; and when at last detected in thy vile
practices, wast thou not chased like a cur, and escaped the
whipping-post a second time but by flight ? Calling, quotha !
the devil called thee ; and ere thou couldst well speak, thou lisped
in answer to him. Hast thou not upon thy shoulders the mark of
the lash ? "

Well," said the fellow, doggedly, seeing that it was impossible
to withstand the proofs of his identity, " I am Barnes — but I have
repented of my evil ways, and I am now a chosen one in Israel."

Pooh ! " exclaimed the old man, with a gesture of contempt.

Let us be friends," continued the detected rogue.

I don't see how that will answer my purpose."

I'll show thee how. We can play into each other's hands.
We know the value of the prize. Let us decide it like brothers."

Ay, now thou art reasonable."

Thou shalt see the plate ; there is a goodly store not yet
included in the inventory."

Where ? " eagerly demanded Gripe.

At my lodgings on the common. To-morrow thou shalt
see it."

It must be to-night."

To-morrow, I say," repeated Newlight, feigning reluctance.

And I say to-night," reiterated, the old man, determined not to
give him an opportunity of cheating him ; " I will accompany thee.
And so," he added, " thou hast reformed ; I always thought there
was a spark of grace in thee ; but deal honourably with me or — ■ — "

Fear not," said the detected knave, " thou shalt have little
cause of complaint against me."

Playing upon the avarice of the wretched man, Newlight, as they
left the college, continued to excite him by describing the various
cups and bowls which he had abstracted, till they reached the
common, when his manner suddenly changed. There was a blow,
a struggle, and all was over.

The next morning the body of Gripe was found pierced with a
deep wound under the ribs None, of course, suspected the
preacher — his death was attributed to the vengeance of the disappointed
Royalists.

The morning dawned brightly. At the back of Jesus College,
on a waste piece of land, not far from the Old Manor House, a
party of the Ironsides were drawn up, commanded by Hamilton.
They were ranged close to a thick clump of trees. Herbert, his
son, and Milton were upon the ground ; and Barford, who had the
entire direction of the execution, stood glaring on them with all
the triumph of gratified hate.

"Farewell," said the Knight of Cranfield, grasping the poet's
hand; "what follows may wring thy heart to witness, though
mine is prepared to bear it. Protect my wife, God ! " he added,
bursting into tears ; " it is not for myself I feel, but for my boy,
my gallant boy ! His death will break his mother's heart ! "

Fear not for me," whispered the youth ; " I cannot die in a
better cause, and by my father's side."

I will not leave thee," replied Milton, " till the last. These
hands shall close thy dying eyes, these lips bear thy last blessing
to thy wife."

A loud shriek was heard, and Mary, her hair dishevelled, was
seen flying from the Manor House over the common, followed by
the faithful Martin, who fain would have saved her the agony of
witnessing the fearful scene about to be enacted. Ere he could
overtake her she was folded in her distracted husband's arms.

We will die together ! " she exclaimed. " Monsters as they
are, they dare not refuse me that ! Herbert-son — is there no aid,
no hope ? Have they human hearts ? Were they born of woman !
God ! husband and son both condemned ! both lost ! "

With hysterical sobs the frantic woman turned from her husband
to caress her boy, whom she pressed to her heart as though she
would make it a shield against the balls of the Ironsides.

The time has arrived," said Barford, with a cold smile ; " I can
no longer delay. Take your places."

Mary regarded him with a fixed look, as if endeavouring to
collect her scattered thoughts. Suddenly leaving her son, she
rushed to Barford, and falling upon her knees, shrieked :

Mercy ! mercy ! What have I done that thou shouldst change
my days to sorrow ? How have I wronged thee ? Spare them !
my husband ! child ! If thou art human, spare them ! "

Barford's reply to this was an insulting smile. Herbert advanced
hastily towards his wife, and raising her from the ground, placed
her half-fainting in the arms of Milton, saying as he did so :

Plead not to that monster — he hath neither the will nor power
to save us. Cromwell hath sworn, in the terror of his conscience,
to show no mercy. Milton, our friend, our brother, has sued to
him in vain. Send me not unmanned to my account. Retire,
Mary, with thy brother."

Stay but a moment," she faltered ; " my soul is on the wing —
wait, for I come — I come "

Exhausted by the intensity of her emotions, she sank senseless
in the poet's arms. Anxious, if possible, to spare her the pang of
witnessing their deaths, Herbert and her son imprinted a farewell
kiss upon her still quivering lips, and hastily took their place ;
Milton, at the same time, retreating with his senseless burden
towards the house.

Now then, Barford, do thy worst," said Herbert, throwing his
arms round the neck of his son, as if to sustain him to the last ;
dying, I scorn and pardon thee ; not even to avoid this bitter
hour would I consent to live a wretch like thee ! "

"Present," ferociously shouted Barford.

The Ironsides levelled their guns at the two Royalists.

Fire ! " exclaimed a stern voice from the centre of the troop,
which, previously instructed, instantly divided, and discovered
Cromwell standing in the centre of them, holding in his hand the
iron gauntlet and the proofs of Barford's treachery. The villain,
at once comprehending that he was betrayed, laid his hand upon
his sword, and rushed towards the Protector ; but the order was
obeyed, the volley resounded, and he fell dead at the feet of the
man he would have assassinated.

What have you done ? " exclaimed the astonished Herbert.

Their duty," replied Cromwell, calmly.

Milton and Mary, whom the report of the firing had suddenly
recalled to life, rushed to the scene. As soon as she saw the iron
glove in the Protector's hand, instinctively she seemed to comprehend
it all. Falling on her knees, she could only falter " My
son — my husband "

Are free."

And your oath ? " whispered Milton to the speaker.

Is kept," said Cromwell, sternly, at the same time placing his
foot upon the body of Barford ; " the traitor is at my feet."

CHAPTER XXIII.

JOY has its tears as well as smiles. Mary clasped her rescued
boy and husband to her throbbing breast ; so sudden was the
change from misery to happiness, that she could scarcely trust
herself to believe in its reality, it was so unexpected, so unlooked-for.
Milton, in the purity of his friendship, the goodness of his
heart, looked on and smiled. It was one of those scenes of bliss
which angels love to watch, and which almost reconcile them to
poor fallen humanity. Even Cromwell, cold and stern as was his
nature, suspicious and doubtful as he had become of his fellow
creatures, tasted for a few moments of that unalloyed pleasure
which power feels when exercised to raise the innocent and crush
the guilty. It was some time before either the poet or the rescued
Royalists could understand the mystery of the scene which had
just taken place.

This," said' Milton, approaching the Protector, " is the noblest
use which power can make of the tremendous engine intrusted to
its hand. Does not your highness feel at this moment a satisfaction
more sweet than any dream which ambition realised, or hope
e'er promised — the sweet sentiment of mercy ? "

Not of mercy only," replied Cromwell, " but of justice. This
wretch," he added, pointing to the body of Barford, " this thing of
clay, whose impulses were like his nature, vile, conspired against
my life, pledged himself to the boy Charles Stuart to assassinate
me, for an earldom — fit price for such a deed from such a hand !
The cause must be a bad one which can sustain itself but by such
ignoble means ! "

And my friends ? " said Milton.

"Are free," continued Oliver. "It is but justice. The debt of
gratitude still remains unpaid."

Herbert advanced towards the spot where the Protector and his
friend had stood apart, witnesses of the joy of Mary and the
reunion of three hearts which deemed themselves in this world
for ever disunited.

I cannot bend the knee to thee," he said, addressing Cromwell ;
it would be but mockery, for thou knowest that its homage is
devoted to another ; but for the sake of these dear ones," he added,
pointing to his wife and child, " I thank thee for my life preserved.
From this time forth I sheath the sword, never to draw it forth
again against thee."

A happy wife and mother's blessing ! " exclaimed Mary, at the
same time kissing the hand of Cromwell, " rest upon thee ! Thou
has changed her tears to smiles, the desolation of her heart to
sunshine ! If, in the lonely hours of thy existence — hours from
which neither power nor grandeur can exempt thee — sad memories

corrode thy heart, may thy remembrance of this one deed bring it
the balm of peace ! "

Lady," said the rough soldier of the people, " it is written,
Cast thy bread upon the waters, and after many days thou shalt
find it.' Deeds of mercy never perish — the wounded fugitive thy
pity saved, made thee a promise in the hour of triumph to
remember mercy ! As yet he hath but performed an act of simple
justice, since accident proved thy husband's conscience, in this
most treacherous scheme, to be as clear as thine and Milton's
confidence in his unblemished honour. Hast thou no boon," he
added, " to ask which England's Protector may accord to prove his
gratitude ? "

Mary looked inquiringly upon her husband, to read his
sentiment ; but Herbert was too proud to ask as a boon the
restoration of estates which he knew had been unjustly sequestered.
Seeing no sign of encouragement, she cast down her eyes and
remained silent.

"If not of England's ruler," continued Cromwell, "of the
soldier whose life thou didst preserve, e'en at a moment when
that life was priceless, for England's liberties depended on it."

Your highness," answered the lady, respectfully, but firmly,
the service which I rendered was rendered freely. I make no
traffic with humanity."

A glorious smile lit the melancholy countenance of the poet, ashe
listened to the noble sentiment ; for he was formed by nature
to appreciate all that was beautiful in art or lovely in virtue.

"Nor I with justice," added the Protector, drawing from his belt
a parchment, with the seal of the Commonwealth appended to it.
Lady," he said, " stern as the world supposes me, my nature is
weaker far than thine, since I would have paid my debt of
gratitude by barren justice. This deed removes the sequestration
both from thy husband's and thy father's lands — take it ; but, for
his life preserved, Cromwell must still remain thy debtor."

Without waiting to receive the thanks of the astonished Royalists,
the speaker took the arm of Milton and retired from the spot,
escorted by his faithful Ironsides ; whilst Herbert, with his wife
and son, returned to the old manor-house.

Nothing could equal the delight of Sir Malcolm, on hearing that
they were once more to return to the home of his fathers ; for
although the old man, in his childishness, would sometimes
imagine that he was still in his baronial halls, he felt strange and
restless, was always complaining of the changes which had taken
place, and had more than once reproached his daughter for not
having waited till he was dead before she pulled down the old
house to erect a new one ; in short, he was like a man in a dream
with respect to Keinton, conscious, at times, that it was but a
dream.

The preparations of the family were soon made ; and the
evening before Cromwell left Cambridge, the little party, escorted
by Martin and a few faithful followers, set forth by easy stages for
their future home.

It was a glorious evening, the one on which they approached the
dilapidated seat of their fathers, when the towers first burst on the
sight of Sir Malcolm. He clasped his hands and smiled. They
were like the sight of long absent friends to him. Memories of
old were awakened — thoughts of a lovely being who had called him
husband, and a laughing child who named him father, succeeded
next ; and tears of deep content trickled clown his silver beard.

Home ! " he murmured — " home ! I shall die at home at
last ! "

Don't speak of dying, Sir Malcolm ! " exclaimed his faithful
huntsman Martin, who led his palfrey by a guiding rein. "We
shall have many a glorious carouse in the old walls yet, before the
black flag waves from the keep in token of their noble master's
death."

Despite the influence of the Independent minister who had
replaced the orthodox clergyman in the village church, the major
part of the inhabitants, hearing of the return of their ancient lord
and his family, had come forth to meet them. Since the hall had
been deserted, or inhabited only by the commissioner appointed
by Parliament to manage the sequestered estate, the poor of the
surrounding neighbourhood had felt the difference. Food was no
longer distributed to the aged and infirm, work to the strong, or
medicine to the sick. The rents had been remorselessly exacted,
and many a regret was breathed in secret for the hasty-tempered
but generous old knight, and the ministering angel his daughter.

It was at the principal entrance to the domain that the crowd
first perceived the approach of the little cavalcade, and a loud
shout of hearty welcome announced that they had once more
entered on the lands of Keinton. The younger portion of the
villagers rushed forward to cheer them, and several of the old men
wept for joy at the sight of their old master. Grey heads, but
warm hearts, thronged around the steed on which he rode ; some
kissed his extended hand ; others, less fortunate, the housings of
his saddle.

The feast was spread in the great hall of Keinton, which was
fortunately situated in the part of the building least ravaged by
the conflagration and attack of the enemy. Many relics, such as
cups and pieces of plate, which had been preserved by the
affectionate devotion of the farmers and peasantry, were produced,
and the hospitable board, though shorn of its ancient splendour,
still presented a goodly array of wassail bowls, hanaper cups, wafer
stands, and black jacks, whose silver-mounted rims and hoops
bore various dates and quaint inscriptions.

Sir Malcolm, assisted by Mary, and surrounded by his grandchildren,
was conducted to his seat at the head of the table. I*
was the very oaken chair in which for centuries the lords o^
Keinton had sat. Martin took his usual place behind his master's
chair. No sooner was the old man seated, than a loud shout burst
from the tenants and villagers who were crowded round the lower
end of the hall, and the cry of " Long live Sir Malcolm ! " was
mingled with blessings on the Lady Mary and her children, and
prayers for their prosperity.

The knight, although he had been for several years, from his
great age, in a state bordering on childishness, seemed to throw off
the weight of a score years at the sound. His blue eye flashed
with its former intelligence as he gazed upon the scene. His first
glance was at his child and her offspring, his next at the old walls
hung with the portraits of his race, which had witnessed many a
stately revel. Memory returned, and tears of calm and deep
delight slowly trickled down his venerable face. Something
seemed to be playing the deuce with old Martin — his features
worked convulsively, and once or twice he wiped his eyes with the
cuff of his blue-coated livery, which he had donned in honour of
the occasion.

Fill me my father's cup," said Sir Malcolm, pointing to the
chalice-like looking vessel, probably the relic of some suppressed
monastery ; " fill it to the brim. Before the lethargy of age returns,
I would fain drain it to the health of my faithful friends and
servitors in the old hall of Keinton."

The cup was presented to him.

If I cannot thank you as I would," resumed the old man,
blame the times and not your ancient master, who returns to the
home of his fathers poor in all save honour and loving-kindness to
those who have remembered him in his absence, If I have been
a hasty, impetuous lord of Keinton, I trust I have not been an
unkind one."

No, no ! " shouted the men, many of whom were as grey-headed
as the speaker ; " Long live Sir Malcolm ! God bless our lady and
her children ! "

Perhaps," said Sir Malcolm, " this may be the last time I shall
ever address you, for I am old, very old ; but my children's
children will remain amongst you. Love them as you have loved
me — serve them as faithfully as you have served me, and may you
never know a worse master that I, with all my faults, have been.
God bless you ! thank you ! bless you ! "

The speaker drained off the cup, notwithstanding the anxious
looks of Mary, who feared that so unusual a libation, joined to the
excitement of his return, would injure her father's health, which
was feeble as the lamp of life in a new-born infant ; but, to the
surprise of all, he took his seat, and did the honours of his board

with the self-possession of former years. The tenantry and
peasants were regaled upon the lawn, and frequently the loud
echo of their mirth caused a pause in the conversation in the
baronial hall.

Martin ! " exclaimed the old knight, for the first time
perceiving that the huntsman had donned the livery of his house ;
strip off that blue-coated badge ; and never, while I live, let me
see thee in it again."

Sir Malcolm ! " exclaimed the astonished huntsman.

Strip ! strip ! I say ! " impetuously added his master, seeing
that he hesitated ; " am I not lord of Keinton — of the lands of my
forefathers — in my old seat again ? Here, while I live, my will, at
least is law. Is it not, Mary ? "

Here and everywhere to me, dear father," replied the daughter,
gazing on him with looks of pride and filial affection.

Martin saw that his master was once more in possession of all
his former faculties, and felt that a moment like the present was
not one in which his pleasure ought to be disputed ; he therefore,
without further observation, stripped off the livery which he had
donned with so much pride in honour of the day.

Here old Honesty," exclaimed the knight, pointing to a seat
beside him ; " here to-day must be thy place ; here, beside the
master — the friend," he added, " whom thou hast served with
unexampled fidelity ; here in the bosom of the family who are
united to thee in all but blood."

The colour mounted to Martin's cheeks ; he would have spoken,
but could not ; the words were choking him. Despite his modest
resistance, the children gathered round him, and gently forced him
into the seat by their grandfather's side ; a feat which they accomplished
amid the approving smiles of Mary and her husband.

Oh, they were happy that night, when after dinner the chairs
were drawn round the huge fire which burnt briskly in the hall.
The children, however, could not long remain seated, but gathered
in a knot round their grandfather's seat, and eagerly questioned
him touching the history of the steel-clad knights and stately
dames whose portraits seemed to smile complacently upon their
descendants from the wall. The youngest, a rosy little cherub two
years old, was seated on the old man's knee, her hand entwined in
his long silver beard.

Fearful of the effect which excitement might produce upon a
frame already so debilitated as her father's, Mary several times
would have persuaded him to retire to rest, but he declined. The
day before he would have obeyed her with the simplicity of a
child. Each time she urged her request, he would reply, looking
round the circle with a smile of delight :

Not yet, Mary, not yet ; " and then the children would renew
their questions and their mirth.

The night was advanced when his daughter, for the last time,
pressed her request.

Well, well," he said, " be it so. But before I go, Mary," he
added, " seat thyself, as thou wert wont to sit when a child, at
my feet, and sing me my favourite song ; it is years since I have
heard it."

Not to-night, dear father ; my heart is so full of happiness
that "

To-night," said the old man, interrupting her ; " I feel that I
shall sleep soundly if I hear it once again."

The young people joined their request to their grandfather's,
and Mary, despite her reluctance, was forced to comply, although
it was not without a tremor of indefinite apprehension that she
commenced the song.

Stay," said her father, as the first notes broke tremulously
forth ; " thy lute, thy lute."

Martin was sent to seek it. While he was gone, the cup of the
knight was filled by his grandson, and he drank to them all and
blessed them. There was something solemn in the act. Mary,
she knew not why, was affected to tears ; she exerted herself,
however, to throw off the impression, and partially succeeded.

Martin entered the hall with the instrument, and placed it in
his mistress's hands. As her fingers swept the chords, awakening
the well-remembered air, her father, with a smile like that of a
pleased child, gently closed his eyes, and let his head fall back in
the chair, as if to catch the melody he loved. The words of the
song were suited to the Scene and feelings of those who were
gathered round :

I love the vast halls where my fathers of old,
When the cup circled round, their quaint legends told ;
And with welcome's warm words, hearts as free as their door,
Had a smile for the wealthy, a tear for the poor ;
Where the banquet was graced by woman's sweet smile,
Who controlled its excess, yet adorned it the while ;
And whose eyes flash'd as bright as the glare on its walls,
As she moved through the dance in my father's old halls.

At the end of the symphony, which Mary played upon her lute
at the conclusion of the first verse, a deep sigh broke from Sir
Malcolm, and a tear was observed to steal down his withered cheek.

Father," gently whispered his child, " these feelings are too
much for you. I will finish the song another time to you."

"No, no. Go on."

Not to-night."

"Go on, Mary," said the old man, in the tone of a child disturbed
from its sleep ; " pray go on. I am happy while I hear you — quite
happy."

There was no possibility of refusing a request so urged. The

Lady of Stan field continued her strain, but this time with her eyes
anxiously fixed upon her father's countenance :

How gay were those halls when old winter had drest,
Each carved oaken beam in its holly-green vest ;
And the noble and brave, youth and beauty met there,
To welcome old winter and laugh away care.
Then soft lips were pressed, then breathed the deep vow,
And the white berries plucked from the mistletoe bough ;
Such once were the scenes in those time-honoured walls,
When old Christmas kept house in my fathers' old halls.

The last cadence died trembling away upon the lips of the singer,
for the recollection of other days came over her as she sang her
father's favourite song ; she had been no higher than his knee
when he first taught it her ; and many a mingled scene of joy and
tears had passed since then in the chequered drama of her life.

What a sweet melody," observed her eldest son ; " no wonder
grandfather is so fond of it. But see," he added, " how calmly he
sleeps."

Herbert turned his eyes towards the chair, and observed that the
head of Sir Malcolm had slightly fallen upon his breast. Still he
was far from suspecting that he more than slept.

You had better wake your father, Mary," he observed ; " the
excitement of the day has been too much for him. The hour is
getting late ; 'tis time that he retired to rest."

His wife rose from the cushion upon which she had been seated
at Sir Malcolm's feet, and, leaning over the chair, would have
awakened him with a kiss ; but the instant her lips touched his
venerable cheek, a shriek escaped her, and she sank senseless in
her astonished husband's arms. The Knight of Keinton was dead ;
the feeble breath of life had passed away while he was listening
to the song he had taught his girl in childhood, — the song which
reminded him of home and the hundred tender associations connected
with that dear word — associations which no other spot can
weaken, or time or absence destroy ; for they are amongst the first
which the heart receives and retains the longest. A week after
the return of Sir Malcolm to the halls of his fathers saw him
consigned to their tomb in the village church, where an altar tomb,
with half-effaced escutcheons, still marks the spot where rests the
stout old Royalist.

In the course of the following year it became evident to all who
had an opportunity of approaching his person, that the days of the
Protector were numbered ; his body was perishing, whilst his mind
still retained its healthful vigour on every point save one — the
dread of assassination haunted him ; he wore armour under his
clothes, feared poison in every dish, and at times looked with
suspicion even upon those whom years of fidelity and the ties of
blood entitled to his confidence. By the Act which the obsequious

Parliament had passed, his son Richard was named his successor.
At times he was doubtful even of him — the son of his blood.
Such was the fatal effect produced by the various conspiracies
against his life, acting upon a morbid imagination. Cromwell
found, at the last stage of his existence, that he had purchased
greatness at the price of happiness. His general residence was at
Hampton Court, and, upon state occasions, St. James's. His Court
was distinguished, not only for the irreproachable purity of its
morals, but for the illustrious names which graced it. Foremost
of these was Milton, his friend in youth and frequent monitor.

Pale and emaciated, Oliver was seated in his cabinet arranging
his papers, destroying some and numbering others, when a gentle
tap at the door disturbed him. It seems his highness was accustomed
to the signal, for, Avithout turning his head, he said, " Come
in ! " and Dick of the Belt, one of the few who still retained his
confidence, entered the apartment.

Well," demanded Cromwell. " what is thy report ? "

I have nothing to report, your highness," replied the honest
soldier ; " neither mutiny amongst the men nor disaffection in the
City."

ThoTi art too honest, Dick. The truthfulness of thine own
heart renders thee unsuspicious of the falsehood of others. Hast
seen no sinister glances fall at thy approach — observed no
whisperings in my household ? The very curs who fawn upon
me, and eat my daily bread, plot against my life ! I doubt them
doubt all mankind ! At times I doubt e'en thee ! "

You are wrong, then, your highness."

Perhaps", replied the sick man, musingly, " perhaps — perhaps."

"These fancies, your highness, are destroying you," said Dick,
without offering the least reply to the implied suspicions, which
he passed over, although he felt it keenly, as he would the fancy
of a sick child. " Show yourself more amongst the people."

What ! give the assassins the opportunity they seek ? "

Review your Ironsides," continued the soldier; " the sight will
warm your blood."

Never again," interrupted Cromwell ; " 'tis sluggish, cold, frozen
at the heart. The dark shadow of the tomb is on me, and I must
die ! — die with my glorious plans but half-achieved, with England's
liberties unsettled — thwarted — thwarted, where most I looked for
aid. The old, old leaven of corruption is at work amongst the
people, and Richard," he added, in a low tone, speaking rather to
himself than his hearer, "will prove unable to contend with it.
He hath a kind heart, but a weak one. Oh, but for one year of
my former energy ! — but one year — one year ! "

Trust me, your highness has many years to live ; report speaks
wonders of your new physician — the great German doctor, Martin
Shuts."

He is a stranger."

"But friend of Milton," added Dick of the Belt, who knew how
unbounded was the speaker's confidence in the integrity of the
poet. " Sergeant Hakabut was all but dead of the slow fever
which consumed him, till he followed the prescriptions of the
stranger. You should see him now, your highness ; he can bear
harness with the best man in the regiment."

Oliver remained for several minutes silent, as if meditating some
important resolution : rising from his seat, he walked at last towards
a steel casket which stood upon one of the marble consoles in the
room ; and opening it with a key which he wore suspended from
a black ribbon round his neck, he drew from it a paper, carefully
folded, and placed it in the soldier's hand.

What is this, your highness ? " demanded Dick of the Belt.

"Life or death's warrant," answered the Protector, gloomily;
a spell to thaw the frozen current of my blood or keep it ice forever.
Doff thy gear, and dress thyself like a citizen; ride to
London ; thou knowest Cheapside ? "

As well as my horse its manger."

Seek one of the foreign chemists who reside there, no matter
which — there may be safety in the very hazard ; give him this
prescription, and lose not sight of him till it is compounded.
Observe him well," he added ; " if his eye meets not thine freely,
if he hesitates, asks idle questions, or seems ill-disposed, seek out
another ; breathe to no human ear thy errand, not even to thy
wife ; repeat it not to thyself, but do it as 'twere a secret thing
'twixt Heaven and thee ; and now depart — there needs no protestations
from men approved like thee."

Dick of the Belt, after carefully concealing the prescription in
his doublet, saluted the speaker, and left the cabinet without a
word, more proud of the confidence reposed in him than if the
Protector had named him captain of the Ironsides — in his opinion
the highest dignity man could attain on earth.

Yes," said Cromwell, as soon as he was alone, " I will struggle
with the grim phantom Death. Why should I fear the contest ?
I have braved his frown in many a hard-fought field, nor felt one
throb of fear. My days as yet are far from old ; my energies
untasted. 'Tis but to will to live, and live. Charles ! " he added,
as if apostrophising some invisible being near, " the day is long,
far distant yet, ere I confront thee at the Judgment-seat ; and when
it comes I'll meet it as firmly as I e'er met thee in the battle-field.
The cause — the cause was good — in that I place my trust. God, as
posterity, will judge alike between a people's sufferings and its
tyrant's downfall."

With thee words the speaker reseated himself at the table, and
once more b :aine occupied in the arrangement of his papers.

Cheapskh-. before the Great Fire of London, which did not take

place till the reign of Charles II., was comparatively a narrow
street, with overhanging houses, whose quaintly-carved balconies
and gables denoted the domestic architecture of the Tudors; many
of the mansions were of still earlier date. Amongst the oldest of
these was a low wooden hostel, known by the name of the Pilgrim's
Rest, chief! y frequented by foreign traders and country dealers
arriving in the metropolis to supply themselves with merchandise
or barter their wares. It had also long been known to the proscribed
Royalists as a secure asylum, when circumstances rendered
their presence in London indispensable to the furtherance of the
plots which were continually carried on for the restoration of the
king, an event not more impatiently desired by Charles than by
his party, especially the clerical portion of it, whom the Independents
had driven from their livings, and persecuted with more
fanaticism than prudence ; for few men hate so deeply, or conspire
so perseveringly, as priests, no matter of what church. Fortunately,
the truths of religion cannot be affected by the sacerdotal fury of
those who abuse it.

A number of guests were taking their morning draught in the
great room of the hostel, and talking over the news of the Protector's
reported illness, when Dick of the Belt, dressed in the
habit of a plodding citizen, made his appearance amongst them.
Although his black doublet and steeple-crowned hat were of the
most pacific character, there was a certain stiffness in his carriage
and decision in his step which, to the practised eye of a military
man, indicated at once that he either was, or had been, a soldier.
His object, on entering the house, was to ascertain, if possible, the
name of the principal chemist in the street, without compromising
his errand by any direct questions. For this purpose he seated
himself near to a quiet-looking personage, whom, from his costume,
he took to be a foreign trader, and called for his morning draught.
A group at the lower end of the table were eagerly discussing the
news and the politics of the day.

I tell you," said one, whose language bespoke a condition far
above his appearance, which was that of a scrivener's clerk, " that
he cannot recover ; the only man who could have saved him — the
renowned Dr. Martin Shultz — has been dismissed ; he will trust to
no one, so great is his fear of being poisoned. Captain Seekgood
told my master as much when he came to give directions for
drawing up his marriage contract with the widow of Alderman
Stuff,"

Is the widow rich ? " demanded a rakish-looking man, whose
doublet denoted that he was in bad odour with his tailor.

Her good man left her a fortune of ten thousand pounds," was
the reply.

What ! " exclaimed the questioner, " ten thousand pounds ? — and
throws herself away upon a rascally crop-eared knave who, to my

certain knowledge, was pilloried in the late king's time, when she
might have a loyal gentleman whose name dates from the Conquest !"

Thyself, for instance," said the scrivener's clerk, with a smile.
Ah ! Master Wanton, that game is gone by ; thou art no longer
the jaunty Cavalier, whose long rapier, jingling spurs, and dashing
plume used to bring the wives and daughters of the citizens to the
windows to gaze after thee as thou kepts't to the crown of the
causeway down Cheapside. The times are changed."

True," replied the party thus addressed ; " but they will change
again ere long, or the devil will prove a lenient creditor."

A laugh from some, and a scowl from others, followed this
observation, which, however veiled, contained an allusion to the
death of the notorious Colonel Bond, on whose death the Royalists
observed, that Cromwell had already given bond to the devil for
his own appearance.

Who is this Dr. Martin Shultz," demanded Dick of the Belt of
his neighbour, " of whom the clerk spake just now ? "

I know notion," replied the man, in a strong foreign accent ;
"mine business brings me to London in two weeks ago. I know
notion but mine business."

You are a German, sir ? "

Yaw."

"And may I ask what articles you trade in ? " added Dick, who
thought he might converse more securely with a foreigner than
any of the doubtful-looking persons present.

Yes — very well. I sell many rogues from mine land to
London ; de perfume from India, and spice to confection de wine-possess
! Englishmen," he added with a laugh, " love de wine
possets."

This," thought the inquirer to himself, " must be about the
best person to inquire of ; " and he determined to cultivate his
acquaintance. As a preliminary step, he called for a jack of red
wine, and invited the stranger to partake it with him, a courtesy
which, after some hesitation, the German dealer in drugs accepted.

'Tis strange," observed the soldier, as they were sipping their
wine, " that you should be unacquainted with the name of your
distinguished countryman."

Yot countryman ? " demanded the dealer in drugs.

"Dr. Martin Shultz."

"And vot der teufel do you know of him?" exclaimed the
stranger, with an air of surprise.

You do know him, then ? "

Yaw — yes — that is I have heard of him. He saved de life of
de burgomaster of mine start, or town you call it. Very great
man — wonderful man ! "

You deal, then, I suppose," inquired Dick, " with some of the
foreign chemists in Cheapside ? "

VOL. III. A A

"Yes — all buy wit me; all buy — Herr Schwatz, Fuldbash,
Krutner — all ; I know dem all. Good-bye," he added ; " I have to
make von visit to Herr Krutner now ; dis time must not make him
to wait for me."

Where is his shop ? "

He keep no shop ; he live in house in de strasse."

In what ? "

In de street you call him. Good-bye ; it is mine time."

With these words, which Dick had some difficulty in understanding,
the German drained the last draught in the jack, and left
the room. The disguised soldier, after paying his score, hastily
followed him, determined to get the ordinance of the physician
made up by the very customer whom his late companion was about
to visit. He followed him cautiously at a distance, till he saw him
enter a house at the corner of one of the narrow lanes running
from Cheapside to Lombard-street. The trader seemed surprised
and somewhat amazed when they met at the door.

Wot ! " he exclaimed, " you seek Herr Krutner too ? "

"Yes."

Come, den, mit me. I will show you."

The speaker gave a peculiar knock, which Dick noticed ; but
thought it merely the fashion of his country, and as soon as the
door was opened, entered the long, narrow passage without fear or
misgiving. At the end was a second door, conducting to a low
room, in which were six or seven persons seated at a table. His
conductor said a few words in German, and in an instant Dick, to
his astonishment, found himself seized by two men, and several
naked swords held to his throat.

Now, rascal ! " said his late companion, speaking in excellent
English, " tell me why I have been followed, and who set you onto
dog my steps ? "

The party thus interrogated could scarcely speak for surprise.
Bitterly did he curse his imprudence when he saw the danger into
which he had fallen.

Speak ! " continued his late companion, impatiently ; " I will
not give you time to hatch a lie ! "

I have no occasion to hatch one," replied Dick, recovering from
his astonishment ; " I took you for that which you pretended to
be, a German trader ; and, having an occasion to visit a chemist,
followed, like a fool, the way you took."

And what occasion, knave ? "

Dick was silent. Not even death would have induced him to
betray the errand upon which he was sent, or the name of him who
sent him. Despite his resistance, he was searched, and the prescription
found upon him partly confirmed his statement

I see," whispered the pretended German to his companions ;
I see it all. This is really the ordinance and handwriting of

Shultz. I know it well, having held a controversy with him when
he was professor at Heidelberg. The usurper, fearful of being
poisoned, has employed this man to get it secretly made up."

What are we to do ? " demanded one of the party, who was no
other than the famous Killigrew, and the previous speaker the
expelled head of one of the colleges of Oxford. ;t To let him
escape were ruin."

Worse than a crime," added several, — ; ' a blunder — for there
are no crimes in politics."

It was finally decided that the intruder should be detained a
prisoner in the lower part of the house. Some were for despatching
him at once ; but the divine, convinced that he had not been set asa
spy upon them, interfered in his favour ; unless not to be avoided,
he objected to shedding blood. It was in vain that Dick, when
informed of their decision, entreated to be released, offering to bind
himself by every oath they could administer, never to relate a
word of his captivity, or point out to any human being their place
of meeting.

It was in vain ; most of them had too often been deceived
in their intercourse with the world to trust him. Besides,
they calculated, and not without reason, the effect which the
absence of his agent, and the loss of the prescription, would
produce upon the already shattered health of Cromwell ; so they
gagged their prisoner, and, after a desperate struggle, dragged him
to the cellar of the house, where they left him to reflect upon his
want of prudence, and curse the folly which had betrayed him into
the hands of the concealed Royalists.

Nothing co aid equal the surprise and irritation of the Protector
when he found that his agent did not return. The gnawing
impatience of his heart mounted to his brain ; his gloom and
mistrust increased to such a degree, that it became painful to
approach him. His blood, lately dull and sluggish, coursed with the
fiery rapidity of fever through his veins, and it became evident
to all that his days were numbered. The third day of Dick's
imprisonment saw Cromwell on his death-bed, his family weeping
around him, and the Independents already looking to his son
Richard for the distribution of those favours which, with all their
disinterestedness, they were not insensible to.

Leave me," he exclaimed to his son ; " I would sleep — my soul
is heavy ; but let my faithful Ironsides guard the doors ; let none
approach my chamber but sure friends. Fool," he added, bitterly,
to think that power, even when exerted for the people's good,
ever yet found friends ! "

Father ! "

Tush, boy, tush ! thou wilt live to find it true — to remember
the dying lion's words — to see those who crouch and crawl, turn
like wolves to rend thee. Hold the reins tight. Let them feel
VOL. III. A A 2

the bit and curb of iron — iron, if thou wouldst rule in peace.
Would Henry were here ! "

This was an allusion to his son Henry, then in Ireland, whose
firm character rendered hi in more fit to succeed his father than the
peaceful Richard.

Leave me," he continued, " leave me to meditate alone — alone.
God ! in the grave, I shall indeed be alone ! "

So imperative was the voice of the speaker, and so implicit the
obedience which his family, who feared as well Us loved him, was
accustomed to pay, that they retired from the chamber of the
dying man into the ante-room, where numbers of Independent
ministers were, in the peculiar language of their sect, employed in
seeking the Lord. The doors were closed, and Cromwell left
alone. Then fell upon him one of those waking dreams which so
frequently precede death, and in which the events of a life of
many years are compressed into a few moments 1 space ; — when the
varied scenes of boyhood, manhood, age, pass like a mental
panorama before the fast-failing sight. Once more he saw himself
'the solitary boy at Hinchinbrook, wandering in the woods of his
ancestral seat, meditating high thoughts and dreams, such as haunt
the patriot's youth, ere the stern realities of life wake him to
action. A student next, he paced the cloistered halls of learning
and of science. Like mists, driven by the tempest's breath,
shadowy forms seemed gathering round his couch — Hampden, of
lion courage, but of gentle heart — Hampden, the pure, the virtuous
patriot ; Pym, Bradshaw, Rupert, Bond, Fairfax, Milton — all
whom he had known, were there. Wildly he turned his head
from side to side upon his restless pillow. No sooner did he fix
them upon some well-remembered countenance, than it melted and
became confounded with the mist which veiled his dying eyes.

I live," he murmured, " but my brain must surely be
wandering. What should the dead do here ? would I could sleep —
oh ! would that I could sleep ! "

The sufferer closed his eyes, but in vain ; the vision continued
still to haunt him ; again with terrible distinctness he saw the
fatal scaffold reared against Whitehall, and the pale, proud features
of Charles, as he knelt ready to bow beneath the stroke of the
masked headsman. Cromwell trembled violently, and the cold
perspiration trickled down his massive forehead, as he pressed his
hands to his burning eye-balls to shut out the vision.

Why glare on me ? " he cried ; " I can meet thy gaze ; against
the balance of thy death I cast thy many perjuries, numerous as
the hairs of thy dishonoured head. Pale phantom, thou canst not
frighten me ! " he added ; " my heart may beat, my eyelids quiver,
and the damp dew of death start on my front, for these are human,
and the signs of human weakness ; but my soul thou canst not
appal — its judgment lies beyond thee."

Suddenly the scene seemed to change, and he was again in the
chamber of the astrologer Lilly, gazing upon the mirror in which
he had formerly seen represented the execution of the king and his
own shadow dangling on a gibbet. The latter scene, to his
imagination, was acted over again.

"Why, be it so," he cried, "the scaffold bears no dishonour — it
is the crime ; posterity will judge me. If these are thy terrors,
death, thou hast not crushed my spirit yet."

As if in answer to his apostrophe, the spirit of Hampden once
more appeared to him, and pointed to a vast stone, something like
the foundation stone of a magnificent temple, the materials for
erecting which were scattered round. In the centre of a triangle
upon it were engraved the words " Liberty, Justice, and
Equality." A crowd of crowned and mitred things in human form
were labouring to uproot it, but in vain. Then Cromwell saw that
his labours had not been in vain ; a calm, sweet sleep fell on
him ; the spirit of Hampden was beside him, and he smiled as he
slept.

CHAPTER XXIV.

"When Cromwell awoke from that profound sleep which so
frequently is the precursor of death, he found Milton kneeling by
his side absorbed in prayer. Through life there had been an
unbroken chain of confidence between these two remarkable men
both imbued with the same sentiments in religion, both devoted
to the establishment of the civil and religious liberties of England.
If in the heart of the Protector these feelings were alloyed by a
vein of personal ambition, they were redeemed by courage, genius,
aud that passionate love of country which makes man either a
martyr or a hero — which prompts to lofty deeds, and writes a
name on the imperishable rock of fame.

"Where am I ?" he exclaimed, his eye wandering round the
chamber till it rested at last on the well-known countenance of the
poet. " Ah, Milton ! still on earth, then — still left to struggle with
the terrors of overshadowing death ! "

•* Shadows which vanish to the eye of faith," observed his
friend.

True," said Cromwell, knitting his heavy brow, as if gazing on
some invisible enemy ; " death vanquishes to be himself o'ercome.
I have braved him on the field amid the battle's din— by the red
watch-fire's light stood face to face with him. Wliy should I
fear him now ? — and," he added " he comes clothed in terrors which
might appal a heart and nerves of iron. See, he bears upon his
grim and ghastly front a regal crown ; his purple robe is stained
with blood. A vaunt ! Charles, avaunt ! Avaunt ! thou shadow

of a dreamless king ; anon before the Judgment-seat I'll meet

thee ! "

"This is fancy, born of sick thoughts and fainting nature,"
observed the poet ; " why shouldst thou fear him ? "

"Why, aye, the cause I struck for was my country's freedom —
the peace and glory of our island home. His scaffold was a beacon
to make tyrants tremble. Point not, pale spectre, to thy broken
sceptre and thy blood-stained robe. Thy crimes dishonoured them
thy death atoned them. It was thy destiny. I but fulfilled the
will of Him who sent me."

"And "Who alone can judge thee," rejoined Milton.

Alas ! " said the dying man, after a pause, " as my earthly sight
grows dim, scale after scale falls from my mental sight. I see the
ulcer of my soul — the angel's sin — ambition ! "

Love of country," interrupted the poet, willing to calm the last
moments of the man who, despite his weakness, he loved with a
brother's love. " Death refines the heart — consumes the worthless
dross, and pure ore remains."

Why should he haunt me, then ? Why should the shadows of
a hundred kings stand threatening round my couch ? And she,
my child, my pale and suffering child, she whom I love with the
deep tenderness of a father's love, why should she stand beside
my couch to curse me ? Milton," he added, wildly, " I may
deceive mankind, but not myself. No human deed was ever
sanctified by blood. Who — who made me his judge ? "

The people, whom he outraged ; humanity, whose rights he
trampled on. Cromwell," added the poet, grasping his hand,
the voice which never yet deceived thee bids thee peace — bids
thee weigh the sin of thy ambition 'gainst the great work achieved ;
thy lust of empire 'gainst a crown refused."

Why, aye, I did refuse it ! I struggled bravely with the
tempter ; but I did refuse it ! "

Die, then, in peace," said Milton ; " die, and leave a name for
other ages to wonder at ! Like the mystic column placed by
Israel's God between His chosen people and their foes, thy giant
form shall stand, casting dark shadows on the past, light on the
future — a thing of awe which men shall tremble at."

'Tis past ! " said Cromwell, as his eyes flashed with unearthly
fire at the inspired words of the speaker, which fell upon his ear
like the sentence of posterity absolving the weakness of his
humanity in the grandeur of his genius and energy of his
patriotism, " As I fix my gaze, the phantoms of crowned vampires
that would fright my soul recede, fainter and fainter, at the light
of truth. I can die now," he added ; " die calmly — die like
God's soldier and the people's."

The door of the apartment was slowly opened, and a man in the
first prime of life entered timidly, as if afraid of disturbing the

last moments of the speaker, whom he resembled somewhat in
features. The likeness would have been stronger, had not the
mild expression of his countenance given him an air of timidity
and softness almost feminine, when compared with the iron face
of the Protector.

Richard Cromwell — for it was his son — approached the bed, and,
kneeling at the side, silently kissed the hand of his expiring father.

Richard ! "

Father ! " said the young man, a tear stealing down his cheek,
bless me ere you die ! "

The blessing of the Lord be on thee," said the dying man,
firmly laying his hand upon his head ; " may His spirit strengthen
thee to follow in thy father's steps, but to avoid his errors ; I leave
thee in a path beset with thorns, pitfalls, and snares. Mistrust the
tongue which praises thee ; for treason speaks with honeyed
breath. Grasp the reins firmly with a hand of iron ; and, whate'er
betide, seek England's glory, boy, beyond thine own."

Father, dear father ! " sobbed Richard, vainly endeavouring to
restrain his tears ; "think not on me, but of thyself and Heaven.
The preachers of the "Word wait in the ante-chamber to pray with
thee. The prayer of righteous men availed much. Shall I admit
them ? "

Not yet — not yet," said the dying man, passing his hand over
his clammy brow as if to collect his thoughts ; " my task is not
ended yet. Raise me, Richard ; raise me on my pillow. I would
meet death like a soldier, face to face. God ! " he added, with a
sigh, " the strong man's strength is shrivelled in thy hand ! "

Assisted by Milton, his son lifted him from the centre of the
bed, into which, during the scene we have described, he had
gradually fallen, and placed his head upon the pillow, on which
his grisly hair fell like an expiring lion's mane. Although his
features were already marked by the rigid lines of death, his eyes
still flashed with the intelligence of genius, as if the spirit lingered
in a corpse.

Imagining that the father might have some private communication
to make to his son, Milton would haVe withdrawn from the
chamber of death ; but with a glance the dying man indicated his
wish that he should remain.

Remain," he murmured ; " for thou must hear my last will. I
know thou wilt perform it."

Speak ! " said the poet.

When I am dust," he added, " and the arm which struck the
crowned despot and the boy Charles, his son, at Worcester fight
can no more protect its master, remove my body secretly to
Huntingdon, that should the Stuart ere return, his ignoble
vengeance may not profane the clay of him who was the people's
leader."

Father ! " exclaimed Richard, unable to conceal his astonishment
at what appeared to him so extraordinary a request.

Answer me not ; but promise, boy," said the Protector, sternly •
thou wouldst not have the hangman's hand touch thy father's
ashes. Bury me under the tree facing my father's grave. I
have mused there, Milton," he added, "when a boy — dreamt the
high dream which faith hath realised. 'Twas there the spirit of
the Lord tempered my soul to its stern work, and I have often
thought, amid the battle din, that I should like my resting-place to
be there."

Father ! " said the kneeling Richard, " thy wish is sacred. May
thy blessing be fulfilled as I perform my vow."

Tis well ! " said the dying man, with a smile of triumph, as if
in anticipation he had defeated the vengeance of his enemies ;
nearer, Richard, thy hand — thy hand, for my sight fails me, and
thy features seem fading from my view."

I am here, father ; here, by thy side."

Trust not to Monk," whispered the Protector, with terrible
distinctness ; " his heart is yet more hollow than his word. For
years I have watched his spirit brooding over treason — treason to
the people and their cause. Oh ! but for a month — for one
short month of life ! " he continued ; " I'd draw the serpent's
fangs ! "

He is a valiant soldier of the people," said the future Protector,
deeming that his father's senses wandered, and that his suspicions
were, unfounded.

I tell thee that he is a traitor ! " passionately interrupted
Cromwell ; " a scheming, plotting knave, who for gold or honours
would betray his country — sell her young freedom for vile price
of gold — bring back the Stuart — and undo the work which
Hampden died for."

I'll watch him, father."

As thou wouldst a serpent with head erect to sting thee at the
first movement. Place thy heel upon him — crush him, or thou art
lost, and Worcester fight won for the cause in vain."

Exhausted by the effort he had made, Cromwell sank upon his
pillow ; his ej-es suddenly lost their lustre, and became fixed. It
was evident that the last struggle was at hand. Milton rose from
his knees, and, advancing to the folding doors, threw them wide
open, that the preachers might enter and witness the end of him for
whom, for the last four-and-twenty hours, so many prayers had
been offered. Several of the officers and soldiers of the Protector's
favourite regiment, the Ironsides, entered with them, and crowded
round the bed, gazing with stern grief upon the chief who had so
often led them on to victory.

"Lord!" exclaimed the preacher, "strengthen him at this the
final hour ! "

Remember, Richard ! " murmured the dying man, " Monk —
crush — crush ! "

Let Thy might sustain him in the valley of the shadow of death,
that his spirit fail not, nor his feet fall into the snare of the enemy."

Enemy ! " exclaimed Cromwell, his ear catching the last words
of the prayer of the preacher ; " not yet crushed, not yet subdued !
My sword — advance my Ironsides — strike for the people's rights
the wing of the God of victory overshadow us ! "

He raves ! " whispered one of the ministers.

"See, see, how the liveried courtiers fly — serry your squadrons —
they come — down, thou crowned phantom, down — the sword of
Gideon — they fly, they fly — the block — the axe — ha ! the blow is
struck— the Lord is on the people's side — the victory is won — ended
my task is ended."

The death-rattle interrupted his further speech. There was a
convulsive movement of the chest — a straining of the eyeballs — a
stiffening of the limbs — and a form of clay alone lay stretched
upon the couch where late was genius, energy, and courage.

A deep groan from Richard Cromwell announced that all was
over — that he who, in his might, had shattered a throne, and from
its fragments built himself a seat yet more honoured ; had judged
a king, refused a crown, and given law to Europe, had passed to his
account.

Milton remained for some time in fervent prayer by the side of
the couch of the man whose greatness he had admired, whose weakness
mourned. Rising at last, he approached the still weeping
Richard, and whispered something in his ear.

True," said the young man ; " the task should be mine."

With a powerful effort of self-command, he approached the
corpse, and placing his hand upon the eyes, reverently closed them.
A groan burst from the preachers as they witnessed the last act of
filial duty. To them the dead man was as Joshua to Israel — the
sword and champion of their cause.

Place," said Milton, in a loud voice, " for his highness the
Protector ! "

Richard Cromwell bowed his head to conceal the tears Which
trickled down his cheek as he passed, leaning on the poet's arm,
from the chamber of death to his own apartments. The clash of
arms, as the sentinel saluted him, made him shudder, for it
reminded him that he had no longer a father.

Although the hopes of the Royalists revived on hearing of the
death of their great enemy, no outbreak or public demonstration
of their joy took place. The stern attitude of the Independents
awed them, and they rejoiced in fear and trembling. Richard
Cromwell was quietly proclaimed Lord Protector of England ; and
scarce a town or city in the kingdom but sent up an address of
congratulation on the auspicious event, in which they protested

their fidelity to his person, and offered the lives and fortunes of
the citizens in support of his government and the security of the
cause.

If-with an abnegation seldom found in men, Cromwell, whilst
living, had refused the honours of Royalty, they were lavished
upon him when dead ; his body, clothed in a purple velvet robe,
was exposed in the presence-chamber — which was hung with black,
and lit by huge wax tapers in sconces of silver — upon a bier of cloth
of gold, adorned with the escutcheons of the Commonwealth ; the
crown, sword, and sceptre were placed beside him. His faithful
Ironsides guarded the chamber, through which the citizens were
allowed to pass in mute succession ; while the most celebrated of
the Independent ministers, kneeling round the estrade, were
occupied in prayer.

It was at the close of the day which preceded the interment of
the body that Richard Cromwell was seated in what had been his
father's cabinet, absorbed in meditation. Letters from the various
commanders and leaders of the army were lying on a table
besides him — some warning him of Monk ; others endeavouring
to instil into his breast suspicions of the designs of the Parliament,
who already contemplated the recovery of that influence in the
government of affairs of which his father had so unceremoniously
deprived them,

Right, father — thou wert right ! " exclaimed Richard, with a
sigh, as his eyes glanced over the papers ; " the path thou hast left
me to pursue is indeed beset with thorns. Heavens ! " he added,
"how fierce are human passions when unrestrained by conscience
and religion ! My heart sickens at the mass of treachery and deceit
unrolled before me."

A knock at the door of the cabinet distracted his attention from
the letters which had excited his bitter apostrophe ; the sound was
a relief to him, and he bade the intruder come in.

Who art thou, and what is thy design ? " he demanded, as a
man enveloped in a mantle and slouched hat, which entirely
concealed his features, bent the knee before him.

The intruder threw aside his disguise, and disclosed the countenance
of Dick of the Belt, pale and haggard with the long confinement
he had undergone, and still more with the mental agony
he had endured. The death of the Protector, and the various
rumours of conspiracy amongst the Royalists in the City, had set
the Independents on the alert. Attention had been drawn to the
house in which the prisoner was confined ; it had been beset by
the authorities too late to arrest the plotters who had engaged it,
but time enough to release Dick from the starvation which
menaced him ; for in the hurry of their flight they had forgotten
their captive.

Traitor ! " exclaimed Richard, laying his hand upon his sword

u Your highness's father," replied Dick, " never thought me so."

Dearest thou name him ? "

"Would that he lived to do me justice ! I have been betrayed,
but never treacherous. Strike," he added, still remaining
unmoved at the sight of the weapon which the Protector had
drawn in the first movement of his indignation. " Strike ! but
hear me."

Right ! " said Richard ; " the vilest criminal has still the right
to be heard in his defence ; and he whose office it is to execute the
law is bound to respect it. Speak ! let me hear what glozing lie —
what well-planned tale thou hast to excuse thy treason to the man
who trusted thee ! "

The rough soldier, without heeding the reproach, which conscience
told him was unmerited, related, word for word, all that
had passed between himself and the speaker's father the evening
he had charged him with his fatal errand ; how, step by step, he
had been beguiled ; how the very precautions he had taken had
led to his detection and imprisonment. There is an accent in truth
which falsehood cannot imitate. His tale was so clear, and the
sufferings he had endured had left such visible traces upon his
person, that, despite his anger and prejudice, Richard was convinced
of his loyalty ; the doubt had passed away.

Rise ! " he said, extending his hand ; " 'tis sweet to find I have
an enemy the less, a friend the more. My father's faith in thee
was fixed ; and he trusted few men, for he knew mankind too
well. Rise," he added ; " I have employment for thee."

For the first time since his imprisonment a smile illumined the
haggard countenance of Dick of the Belt ; his honour was redeemed,
and he thought not of his sufferings.

Tell me," he exclaimed, " in what way I can show my fidelity
to my master's son, or prove my devotion to his glorious father's
memory. 'Tis true I am weak and broken with the want of food,
and the unwholesome air of my damp dungeon, but the desire to
prove my faith will give me strength once more."

At midnight seek me here," said Richard.

At midnight, your highness ? " »

Refresh thee well, for thou wilt have occasion for thy recovered
strength, as well as prudence. A journey is before thee ! "

A journey ? "

Aye ; and one thou wilt be proud of, for I intrust thee with a
treasure dearer than life ; a thing I would derobe from human
malice — from human outrage. Fail not the hour, if ever thou
didst love or reverence bear to him who was thy master."

At the appointed hour, when Dick entered the cabinet of the
speaker, he found Richard Cromwell, Milton, and two grey-headed
old valets of the deceased Protector conversing in low whispers atone
end of the apartment. All four were enveloped in black cloaks;

by the light of the single torch which dimly lit the room they
showed like spectres or conspirators.

Our number is complete," said Milton, as the soldier entered;
we have no time to lose."

"Are the doors of the presence-chamber made fast ? " demanded
the Protector."

They are, your highness."

And the guard placed ? "

All has been done as you commanded."

"And the body of the assassin ? "

Milton pointed to a dark, inanimate object lying on a couch in
one corner of the room, which, from the obscurity, Dick of the
Belt had not till then observed. Although naturally brave, he was
superstitious, and a thrill of terror ran through his veins as he
perceived that the inanimate mass bore the likeness of a human
form.

Raise it," said Richard Cromwell, addressing Dick, at the same
time taking the torch from the silver sconce in which it burnt,
and follow me."

Without waiting to see that his orders were obeyed, the speaker
drew aside the arras which covered the wall at the end of the
apartment, and opened a private door, which led to a staircase cut
in the walls of the palace ; Milton and the valets followed, and the
mysterious procession was closed by Dick, bearing on his shoulders
the corpse, enveloped in a mantle of purple velvet. From the sickly
odour it emitted, he judged that it had long been an inmate of the
grave ; and he secretly wondered for what unhallowed purpose its
last resting-place had been violated.

On reaching the bottom of the staircase, a door similar to the one
in the cabinet was drawn aside, and the party entered the presence
chamber, where rested the remains of the Protector. The light
fell on the jewels of the crown, the cloth of gold which covered
the bier, the sword and sceptre, placed there as in mockery of
human grandeur. The countenance of the dead man was calm
and stern, the traces of passion which had marked it living had
already receded before the majesty of death. .Upon a table at the
lower end of the room stood a coffin covered with purple velvet,
ready to receive the body. The scene altogether was so strange
that "the nerves of the assistants were shaken. For the first time
Dick observed that the robe which enveloped the corpse he bore
was exactly similar to the one worn by the late Protector.

Bending their knees before the estrade, Milton and Richard
Cromwell prayed long and fervently ; the tears of the latter coursed
down his pale cheeks as he gazed, for the last time, upon the
features of him who had been his father. Dick of the Belt would
have given the world for a human sound — something to break the
horrid stillness which oppressed him. He felt like a man suffering

under the influence of the nightmare. Repeatedly did he ask
himself what could be the meaning of the scene, and whose was
the body he had been commissioned to bear.

By Richard Cromwell's command, the soldier placed his burden
in the magnificent coffin which had been prepared to receive the
remains of the late Protector. He would have given worlds to
have seen its countenance ; but it was enveloped by the cere-cloth,
and he dared not raise it ; a nameless terror was upon him, and he
trembled like an aspen leaf.

Fear not ! " said Milton, placing his hand upon his shoulder ;
the task thou hast performed is an honest one ; recall thy courage
to aid us in the one which remains, for all is not accomplished yet."

On a sign from their master the two aged valets approached the
estrade, and, respectfully raising the body, first removed from it
the velvet robe and jewelled collar, next the surcoat of cloth of
gold, damasked with purple, leaving the corpse for sole attire the
linen mort-cloth in which it was enrolled, carefully enveloping the
body in a winding sheet of waxed linen. They last of all covered
it with a pall of black velvet — their task was ended. Raising the
remains of the late Protector upon his shoulders, Dick of the Belt
followed his companions back to the cabinet of Richard Cromwell,
by whose orders the guards usually placed round the garden side
of the palace were removed, that nothing might cause suspicion of
his intentions, or lead to inquiry in after-time, if ever the danger
which his father had foreseen should occur.

Thou knowest the road to Huntingdon ? " he demanded, as
soon as the two valets, who were not intrusted. **dth the secret, had
left the chamber.

I could find it blindfold, your highness," replied the soldier.

At the garden-gate of the palace thou wilt find a carriage. I
will accompany thee, that, should any prying eyes or officious
sentinel interrupt thy progress, my presence may answer for thee.
Place thy sacred burthen within, anal with what speed thou mayest,
make the best of thy way to Hinchinbrook. Stop at the rectory ;
the holy man who holds the living is forewarned. Thou wilt find
all things read" to receive thee."

Enough," said Dick. " I will answer with my life for the
execution of your highness's orders."

An hour afterwards, just as the morning began to dawn, a plain
carriage, without armorial bearings, started from the private gate
of the palace garden ; its conductor was Dick of the Belt, its inmate
the corpse of Oliver Cromwell.

When the presence chamber was opened by the officers of the
palace on the following morning, great was their surprise to find
that part of their office was already performed. The corpse, as
they supposed, of the Protector, was already deposited in the
magnificent coffin, and Milton and Richard Cromwell standing inclose

conversation by its side. Great as was their astonishment,
respect kept them silent. Some deemed that the filial piety of the
son had induced him to perform the last office to his father with
his own hands, unwilling that any but kindred arms should raise
the body, whose features were already veiled from view by the
mort-cloth.

Your highness's pleasure ? " demanded one of the heralds,
bending the knee. " Shall we proceed to the recognition of the
high and mighty prince our late Protector ? "

It matters not," replied the poet ; " first screw down the coffin."

The officer hesitated ; but as Richard Cromwell was present and
gave no counter-order, he was forced to obey. The lid was screwed
down, and then lifted into the outer or state coffin, which, covered
with purple velvet, stood in the ante-room ready to receive it ;
that, too, was fastened down, and the keys presented on the knee
by the herald to him who was regarded in all but name as
sovereign.

Now then, perform your office," exclaimed the Protector, with
an air of indifference ; " enough of honour has been rendered to the
dead . The living demand our care ; throw open the doors, and
admit the nobility and gentry appointed to follow our father to his
last resting-place."

The order was obeyed ; and a crowd of officers, noblemen, and
gentry, preceded by a body of the Independent preachers, entered
the apartment. The ministers and secretaries of the late Government
ranged themselves near the coffin, on which the crown and
the armour worn by the deceased at Naseby and Gloucester were
placed, in the midst of profound silence. The herald proclaimed
his style and titles ; when he had concluded, the preachers began
their prayers, in which they compared the late Protector to Gideon,
Joshua, and the mighty ones of Israel.

During the procession, many wondered at the cold distraction of
Richard Cromwell, whose demeanour was more like that of a man
engaged in a tedious ceremony than a son performing the last duty
to a parent.

Three days after the funeral, the new Protector set out for
Huntingdon, and took up his abode at Hinchinbrook ; except the
officers and escort who accompanied him, Milton was his only
companion. The night of his arrival, the body of Oliver Cromwell
was consigned to a deep grave dug under his favourite tree, facing
the entrance to the vault of his ancestors. No stone was erected
to mark the spot where repose the remains of one of the giants of
the earth, whose name is still a terror to kings, and a beacon to
suffering nations.

Months passed on without any open attempt being made to
subvert the authority of the new Protector, who succeeded as
peaceably to the authority of his father as though a sceptre bad

been transmitted to him through a long line of kings. The terror
which the name and genius of Cromwell inspired, even from the
grave, shed a prestige over his son, which the Parliament, where
the Presbyterians began once more to show themselves, was the
first to break. Step by step it proceeded to reclaim its lost
authority. The members found that the iron sceptre which had
crushed them had fallen into the hands of a child, and they became
bold accordingly. The army, too, deprived of its chief, became
bold and restless. Amongst the fifth-monarchy men the idea of
governing the kingdom by means of a council taken from the
ranks was revived. In the midst of this disunion, the most
forward of the Royalists began secretly to agitate for the return of
Charles ; while the most sedate portion of the nation turned their
eyes to Monk, whom late success had made popular with the army,
and from whom they felt the solution must arrive.

Such was the state of parties in England when Herbert of
Cranfield and his family removed from Keinton to London. The
failure of the attempts to assassinate Cromwell, and the odium
which those attempts had caused, even amongst the Royalists,
prevented any similar offers being made to get rid of his successor.
Charles, with a prudence which the influence of Clarendon most
probably caused him to exercise, seemed resolved to bide his time,
and the result proves it to have been his wisest plan ; for, tired
with the unequal strife, Richard Cromwell finally withdrew to
France ; and most parties began to turn their eyes towards the
young king, between whom and the throne there was but the
shadow of the past, and the influence and authority of Monk, to
whom the Republicans looked up with confidence and hope.

In the City the agitation was, if possible, greater than at the west
end of the town. Commerce was suspended ; the Exchange was
deserted by the merchants and citizens anxious to hear the news,
for St. Paul's Walk — there the sullen Puritan and fiery Royalist
were alike accustomed to repair, as to a neutral ground, where they
might discuss the flying rumours of the day. Herbert, anxious for
the cause to which, from boyhood, he had been devoted, usually
repaired to the old church, accompanied by his son, now fast
merging into manhood.

On one of these occasions the knight's attention was attracted by
a crowd of black-coated personages gathered round a tall, thin
fellow, whose steeple-crowned hat, Geneva bands, and cropped
hair, denoted him to be an Independent preacher. Approaching
near to ascertain the object of his discourse, he recognised with
disgust, and not without a certain misgiving, that it was the fanatic
Newlight.

Yes ! " exclaimed the preacher ; " the cub of the lion hath fled
before the ungodly ; but the Lord shall yet raise up a champion in
Israel ; the plotting of the ungodly shall be brought to naught,

and their wisdom confounded before him. Prelacy, like a rampant
harlot, begins to rear her horns ; but the husbandman shall bind
them to the yoke ; a prophet shall appear, a prophet shall
announce."

Balaam ! " interrupted a Royalist who was passing near, and
who overheard the last part of Newlight's discourse.

The Puritans turned sternly round and confronted the speaker.
Several of his party, seeing the clanger he had incurred, and
hardened by bis boldness, gathered round him to share or avert
his peril. With reluctance Herbert saw his son place himself by
their side. Much as he wished to avoid a dispute, he could do no
less than follow his example, and yet that very day he had promised
Mary, over and over again, to be cautious.

" I accept the title. Balaam be it," said Newlight, with a sarcastic
smile ; " none can dispute the propriety of the name, seeing 1 am
thus rebuked."

The laugh of the younger portion of the Royalists told the
speaker that the retort had told ; even the grave fronts of several
of the Puritans relaxed.

'Sdeath ! " said the galliard who had caused the interruption,
drawing his sword and striding up to the preacher ; " dost thou
compare me to an ass ? "

The comparison was thine own, friend, not mine ! " replied
Newlight, drily, and not in the least intimidated by the sight of
his drawn weapon, conscious that his followers would protect him;
■" if my disco-se displease thee, pass on thy way ; thou art not
bound to listen to it. The words of wisdom are but as gall and
bitterness to fools."

Thou art a knave ! " exclaimed the Royalist, passionately, " and
but that I respect the already too-long desecrated roof which shelters
thee, I'd trim thy ears as close as the barber has shaved thy poll ! "

Swords were drawn on either side, and a pretty sharp encounter
took place, during which Newlight kept shouting to his followers
to excite their courage :

The sword of the Lord and of Gideon — strike for Israel and the
holy cause ! Be firm of heart, the Lord is with thee ! "

Herbert saw his son, during the encounter, sword to sword with
a Puritan whose back was turned towards him, but whose person
something convinced him he was no stranger to ; he found to his
terror that his boy was pressed by no ordinary master of the art of
attack and defence ; and although his own adversary kept him
sufficiently occupied, he could not forbear turning from time to
time a glance to watch the progress of his son. His heart beat
wildly as he saw his foot slip in the blood which already stained
the pavement of the church, and his opponent shortened his arm
to give the final blow ; a light — a sudden inspiration broke upon
him, and, in a voice of agony, he cried out :

"Wilton, spare the son of Mary Keinton ! "

The Master of Wilton, for it was no other, dropped the point of
his weapon, as though his arm had been suddenly paralysed, and,
extending his hand towards the youth, raised him from the ground.
The young man, maddened with the disgrace of his defeat, would
have renewed the combat.

No, young man ! " said the Puritan, gloomily ; " against thy
mother's blood I may not draw the sword ; my arm would wither
at the shock, and my heart tremble when I thought that every
blow I struck might pierce the heart she loved. For thine and
thy father's sake I will strive to end this broil, which, sooth to
say, shames those who take a part in it, forgetful of the roof
'neath which they stand ! "

The exhortations of the Master of Wilton for peace, followed as
they were by the appearance of one of the magistrates and a portion
of the City guard, produced the desired effect. The Royalists,
conscious that their conduct was blameable in being the first to
disturb the preacher, quietly withdrew. Herbert and the Master
left the church, preceded by the son of the former, who could not
help secretly wondering what tie of friendship or blood could
possibly exist between his father and his late antagonist, whose
soldier-like qualities, despite his Puritanical appearance, he felt
every disposition to respect.

"And so," observed Wilton, with a sigh, "that is Mary's son ? "

Even so."

He hath a supple limb and a quick eye ; but his young arm
lacks strength. Thou shouldst not, Herbert, expose his life to
peril by engaging him in brawls like these. Think what would
have been my remorse and Mary's tears had aught happened to
her eldest born."

I would have avoided it."

I know — I know it was yon tasselled fool, burning to show his
art. I was as mad as he to draw in such a quarrel ; but my soul
is filled with bitterness at the backsliding of the Parliament, the
feebleness of the people ; and 'tis the last drop which makes the
cup run over. A few days will soon decide whether England
maintains her liberties, or returns to the curse of prelacy and
kingcraft."

What mean you ? "

Monk and his army are on the way to London. The Royalists,
I know, tempt him with promises ; but the people's cause is not
without reward for him who undertakes to fight their battle.
Should another contest arrive, thou, Herbert, will be found "

By the side of my sovereign," interrupted the Knight of Stan-field,
who thought that his companion seemed willing, if possible,
to shake his political consistency. " With plots and assassinations,
no matter how plausibly veiled beneath the cloak of justice, I will
VOL. III. B B

have naught to do ; but let the Royal banner be once more displayed
on English ground, with but eight men to guard it — I and my
son will make their number ten ! "

I know — I know," said the Master of Wilton, with a sigh ;
nothing can shake thee from thy blind idolatry of kings.
Farewell ! Should the day dawn, and prove against thee,
remember, while I live, thou hast still a friend willing to serve
thee ! "

And thou the same ! " added Herbert, pressing his hand.

I shall not need it," replied the Puritan, mournfully. " The
day which sees the Stuart triumph sees me in my grave, or an
exile from the land of my fathers for ever. Ere we separate, I
would fain grasp the son of Mary by the hand," he added, " if my
late adversary will honour me so far."

- Willingly ! " replied the young man, who had overheard the
last part of the stranger's conversation with his father-more
especially as it gives me the right to inquire the name of my
generous adversary ? "

A name thou wilt doubtless hear for the first time," replied
the Puritan ; " the Master of Wilton."

Master of Wilton!" repeated the youth; "the friend — the
brother of my dear mother's childhood ! "

Even so ! " said his late antagonist, with a smile.

Then why wrong her friendship, Master of Wilton, by a doubt
like this ? For the first time ! Why, I have heard it a hundred
and a hundred times ! I well remember, while yet a child, she
bade me pray for the generous man who had risked life and
reputation to defend her honour. Be assured that her gratitude —
her friendship "

She owes me nothing ! " interrupted the Puritan, hastily, for
he felt that his firmness was giving way ; and in the pride of his
philosophy, he felt ashamed of betraying the weakness of his heart
even to himself. " Bear to her my respectful greeting and farewell.
Farewell, Herbert," he added, addressing his ancient rival ; " the
game in which we both so long have taken part is drawing to a
close ; Heaven grant that it end for the people's good at last ! "

Pressing the two Royalists, father and son, cordially by the
hand, the speaker drew the folds of his dark, mulberry-coloured
cloak around him, and disappeared down one of the narrow lanes
leading to the water-side, leaving Herbert and his son to pursue
their way to the family mansion in the Strand — not as now, the
abode of shopkeepers and traders; but, at the time we write, of the
residence of the gentry and principal personages of the kingdom,
when duty or pleasure called them to the metropolis.

On their return home Herbert found, to his surprise and slight
displeasure, the imprudent youth, whose folly had occasioned the
late fray, quietly seated in the reception-room conversing with

his wife. Presuming that he had not presented himself without
sufficient reason, he saluted him with the ceremonious politeness
of the day ; not, however, without secretly wondering at the cause
of his visit. As soon as she saw her husband and son enter the
apartment, Mary rose, with the air of a person freed from a disagreeable
restraint, and withdrew, not without apprehension as to
the cause of the stranger's intrusion.

Whom have I the honour to address ? " said Herbert, advancing
towards his visitor.

Jack Cade," replied the young man, courteously, without
moving a muscle.

The name was a strange one, and evidently assumed for the
occasion.

And what would Jack Cade with me ? " demanded the owner
of the mansion, somewhat haughtily ; for he began to suspect that
the speaker was trifling with him.

Simply hospitality for a week or two, and as much^of his society
as circumstances permit him to spare."

The air of comic gravity with which this was uttered perplexed
Herbert and his son still more. The manner of the stranger was
perfectly well-bred, his person elegant, and his self-possession, for
one of his years, extraordinary. To be sure, when his host came
to look into his features, he found it one of those countenances
which appear much younger than they really are.

"And pray," he demanded, with difficulty restraining his
temper ; " under what title am I to grant such unusual requests'? "

Title ? Oh ! ah ! that, Cavalier, I can only explain when weare
in private."

At a sign from his father, the son left the room, muttering,
as he went, a word which sounded very like " impertinent ! " or
P u PPy ! " The stranger, however, whose ears were as quick as
his eye, did not think proper to notice the word — he only smiled.

Now, Sir Jack Cade, or whatever may be your name, your
affair with me ? I am not one much[accustomed to be trifled with;
and, to confess the truth, this conference wearies me."

Without reply, the stranger drew from his belt a sharp dagger,
and, ripping open the lining of his doublet, drew from it a small
packet, carefully sealed, and enveloped in a coverture of parchment.
As soon as he had disengaged it from its hiding-place, he
gave it to Herbert, who saw that it was sealed with the Royal seal.

On removing the outward envelope, the Knight of Cranfield
found a yet smaller packet, sealed like the first, but without
address. He was about to open it, when the voice of the stranger
arrested him.

What are you about ? Odds fish ! man, that is not for thee ! "

How know you that ? " demanded Herbert, with some surprise.

No matter," said Jack Cade, assuming his former easy tone ;
VOL. III. B B 2

enough that I do know it. There is a letter for you inside the
coverture."

On searching the parchment which had enveloped the packet,
Herbert found that the speaker was right — the letter had stuck to
the outward covering ; the heat of the messenger's body had
slightly melted the seal. Impatient to solve the mystery, he
hastily tore open the billet, and read as follows :

Sir Knight of Cranfield, — There are many near our person
who would fain persuade us that you no longer bear to our cause the
same devotion as heretofore ; how far they have succeeded in prejudicing
our mind against thee these presents will decide. We
intrust to thy loyalty to convey the inclosed packet to the general
of the Parliament, Monk — to deliver it to no hand but his with the
utmost despatch. The restoration of thy master to the throne of
his unhappy father perchance depends upon the zeal with which
Sir Herbert of Stanheld executes this mission from his friend,

"C. R."

The eye of the reader flashed proudly as he perused the proof
that, despite the slander of his enemies, and his refusal to join ina
scheme to assassinate Cromwell, the heart of his sovereign had
done him justice.

Well," said the stranger, inquiringly, " what do you propose
to do ? "

Set forth upon the instant."

I could have sworn as much," exclaimed the pretended Jack
Cade. " Odds fish ! good blood never yet belied its source. And
the hospitality I requested ? " he added.

Is granted," replied Herbert, for the first time peering into hie;
guest's countenance closely, and discovering that the long flaxen
curls of the speaker, which but ill accorded with his lustrous black
eyes, were false, and that his complexion was artificial. The idea
suddenly struck him that he had seen those features before, though,
for the instant, he was puzzled to remember where.

Fear not, man ! " said the stranger, throwing himself carelessly
into a chair ; " I will be discreet in thy absence — more so than at
the old manor-house."

These words were to the mind of Herbert like a sudden light
cast upon darkness. In an instant he remembered where and
when he had last seen the speaker ; still, as it seemed the desire of
hia guest to remain unrecognised, he forbore to name him.

A few minutes afterwards the master of the house entered the
sitting-room, where his wife and son were seated, and, to the
astonishment of the latter, informed them that his friend Master
Jack Cade would remain their guest for some time while he was
absent on an affair of importance.

And may I accompany you, father ? " demanded the young man.

That were scant courtesy to our guest, boy."

Pest take our guest ! " thought his son, still more and more
perplexed at the sudden respect which his father evinced towards
the stranger.

"You had better leave him with us, Cranfield," observed the
visitor, coolly; "he is too young to bear the fatigue of a night ride.
Leave him with me and his mother. His presence will amuse us."

Richard (for so the son of Herbert and Mary had been named,
in honour of his grandfather, the old Knight of Keinton) bit his
lips in silence. A look from his father restrained the reply upon
his lips.

"Curse the fellow!" he muttered. "I shall never be able to
keep my temper with him — some popinjay from the Court of
Charles, who thinks himself entitled, no doubt, to mock my rustic
breeding. "We shall see — we shall see ! "

Before starting upon his errand, Herbert had a long private conversation
both with his wife and the old huntsman Martin.

CHAPTER XXV.

ACCORDING to the directions he had received, it was to the North
of England that the Knight of Cranfield bent his way, expecting to
meet the general of the Parliament, George Monk, somewhere
between Newcastle and York. After four days' hard riding, he
had reached the latter city safely — no inconsiderable feat in those
days — and was preparing to continue his route, when, for the first
time, he bad reason to suspect that his steps were watched. With
his usual liberality, he placed a crown in the hands of the ostler,
as he mounted his horse in the courtyard of the inn on the fifth
morning of his journey. The fellow, it seems, although Yorkshire,
where horses were not concerned, had a conscience, and Herbert's
gift was the key to it.

"Doest thee reid to Durham ? " he demanded.

Perhaps."

Weel, if thou doest, Ban Linketer, afore Monk's bar, is a cute
farrier — that's all."

What mean you ? '*

Oh, nought, nought ! "

Here the fellow begin to whistle, and glance significantly at the
feet of Herbert's horse.

The idea that he had been followed, and that some trick had
been played with the shoes of his steed, to prevent his continuing
his journey, instantly struck him, and he was about to dismount,
to assure himself whether his suspicions were correct or not, when
the ostler laid his hand upon the rein, and, pretending all the while
^o be busy in arranging one of the buckles of the brute, whispered:

Donee be a fool, master ; doesn't'ee see, through the half-open
blind, that Black Jack be looking at'ee ? "

And who the devil is Black Jack ? "

Doesn't'ee know 'un ? "

"No."

Weel, then, he be no friend to thee. Last night, when thee
wert abed, master and he knocked I up in the stable, and demanded
to see stranger's horse."

« Well ? "

As soon as Black Jack clapped his eyes on un, he pulled out a
bit of paper, and after reading it a few times — mayhap it were hard
to spell — he whispered to master, ' it be he ! "

So," thought Herbert, " 'tis plain that I am watched ! "

What followed ? " he demanded.

Maister took a file from his pocket, and bade I file the heads of
the nails off horse's shoes. In less than five miles, I'll beat a jug
of twopenny best, he casts all four on 'em."

There is for thy honesty, friend," said the knight, placing a
gold piece in his hand ; " thou seest it is the best policy. Thanks
for thy information ; I will not fail to profit by it. The farrier's
name, I think you said, is Linketer ? "

Yes ; thee best a kind maister ; dang it if I don't tell thee
all ! "

"All !" repeated Herbert, in a tone of surprise. " What, has
more treachery been practised ? "

Curse the buckle ! " said the ostler ; " I have broken it. Can't
thee put these in a passion a bit ? "

I can try."

Donee then, and ge I a clack we whip — not a hard un ; for I
can feel that maister and Blackjack be watching us. While I sew
buckle, I can tell all about it."

At once comprehending the idea, Herbert pretended to put
himself in a violent passion, and let his riding whip fall several
times upon the shoulder of the ostler, taking care, however, not to
hurt him. The fellow, all obsequiousness, removed the bridle
from the horse's head, and, drawing a needle from the cuff of his
well-used doublet, began sewing the buckle, the Knight of Cranfield
standing by, in an attitude of seeming impatience, but in reality
listening with breathless attention to the fellow's warning.

Was tampering with my steed the extent of their treachery ? "

Ann ? " said the ostler, not comprehending him.

What followed, after filing the nails of my horse's shoes ? "

The charge of pistols was drawn out."

That is of small matter," replied the traveller. " I never travel
without ammunition. The moment I clear the walls of York I can
reload them."

«• What with ? " demanded the fellow, with a broad grin.

Herbert pointed to the power-flask which hung suspended from
his shoulder belt.

I thought thee wad never find it out. Maister be precious
'cute ! " •

What mean you ? "

k That for ten pots o' yale I'd let thee fire at me at ten paces ten
times, wi' a double charge of powder from that flask of thine.
Lord bless thee," he added, in a low tone, it be nought but
charcoal, man ! I, Maister, and Black Jack changed the contents
last night."

Impossible ? It was not out of my possession an instant."

Not while thee wast asleep ? " said the ostler, quietly. " I
tell thee," he continued, "that I took it from the chair on the left-hand
side o' the bed myself — it laid a top o' doublet. Maister
wanted to feel under the pillow for purse or packet, or smut o'
that kind, but Black Jack would not let un ; he said his orders
were to delay thee journey, but not to touch thee life."

The description of the position in which Herbert, on retiring to
rest, had placed the powder-flask and his clothes, was too exact to
permit him any longer to doubt the speaker's veracity. He felt a
strange sensation at the recollection of the danger he had run,

"And now, Maister," said the ostler sullenly, for he was not at
all pleased at his word being doubted, " the buckle is sew'd, the
caution given. Thee canst use it or not — that be no affair o'
mine."

But one more question, friend," said Herbert. " Be assured
that I am not ungrateful."

Perhaps not, maister," muttered the man, moving leisurely
towards the door of the stable.

Answer me one question ? "

It nun be a short one, then. I ha' stood too long clavering
with thee."

Who is this Black Jack ? "

The Master of Wilton's keeper."

With this last piece of information the speaker entered the
stable, and shut the door with the air of a man deeply offended.
His manner was partly affected, and part real — affected as far as he
might serve as a blind to his master and Black Jack, should they
unfortunately have been on the look-out during his interview with
Herbert ; and real towards the latter personage, whose doubt he
felt it difficult to forgive.

It bent often," he muttered, as soon as he was inclosed in his
own peculiar sanctum, " that I do tell the truth, and when I do, it
be cussed hard they won't believe ! "

Previous to leaving the ancient city of York, Herbert took care to
visit the farrier, Ben Linketer, and see his horse hesiod. While in
the smithy he took a pinch of powder from his flask, and cast it in

the fire of the furnace, in order to convince himself whether or
not the ostler had spoken truth. Neither blaze nor explosion
followed. The fellow had not deceived him — the powder-horn
contained nothing but charcoal.

Forewarned, forearmed," he muttered. " Wilton, in his
fanaticism and devotion, as he terms it, to the cause, is capable of
everything but dishonour. Tis clear my path will be beset, and,
these precautions have been taken to render my resistance useless.
They would intercept my message to the general. We shall see,"
he added, " we shall see ! "

On the night of the sixth day Herbert was within a few miles of
Durham ; although the hour was late he still urged on his jaded
steed, for he felt that he should be more securely lodged within
the walls of the city than in some lonely hostel by the road-side,
where a deed of bloodshed might be accomplished without hope
of assistance or fear of detection. The night was a rough and
stormy one, the wind whistled shrilly through the leafless branches
of the trees, and the cold arrowy sleet beat in the traveller's face.
Quitting the open land on which he had hitherto been riding, the
messenger entered a narrow lane, whose high shelving banks
afforded something like protection against the inclemency of the
night.

Herbert had pursued his present path for about three miles,
when the sound of a horseman, dashing down the road, fell faintly
upon his ear. As the distance between them was considerable,
the echo was at first too indistinct to enable him to decide whether
his imagination had deceived him or not. Drawing his steed
into a hollow in the way-side, he listened attentively, and, in the
pauses between the howling of the blast, distinctly heard the footfall
of a horse as it trampled along the path he had taken.

Good ! " said the traveller. " I am pursued ! "

Flight in the position in which he was placed was impossible.
His steed was too tired, too broken with the harassing journey it
had taken ; and concealment was equally out of the question.
Herbert therefore determined to defend his charge and his life as
dearly as possible. Finding that he had still some minutes before
him ere his pursuer, if such it should prove to be, could possibly
arrive, he dismounted from his jaded horse, and pouring the
contents of a flask of wine down the throat of the almost exhausted
animal, tighter, id his saddle-girths, looked to his arms, and prepared
for the approaching contest. He had not long to wait. Scarcely
was he in his saddle, before his pursuer, who was mounted upon a
powerful steed, drew rein beside him.

Thank Heaven," thought the Royalist, drawing his sword ;
there is but one ! "

Who goes there ? " demanded the stranger.

Herbert felt his heart fail him, for he recognised in the speaker

the friend of his youth, the protector of his wife — the Master of
Wilton.

"Who goes there ? " repeated the horseman.

A traveller," replied Herbert, disguising his voice.

Whither bound ? "

"To Durham. M

"Aye," said Wilton, bitterly, "to traffic with the liberties of
England — to barter them like things of vilest price with the
recreant Monk. In the name of the Commons of England I arrest
you ! "

You must prove your authority first," said the messenger,
putting spurs to his horse, which, refreshed by the wine which his
rider had compelled him to swallow, launched out into a sudden
gallop, which, however, he was too much exhausted long to keep up.

In a few minutes the Master of Wilton was once more by
Herbert's side.

Yield ! " exclaimed the former.

"Never ! "

At this moment they reached the open ground at the end of the
lane. The wind, which had risen till it almost blew a hurricane,
had dispersed the sombre black clouds, and enabled the moon to
peep forth. By her pale light the Puritan recognised his friend.

Herbert ! " he groaned.

"Even he," said the Royalist, kindly. " Come, Wilton, let us
pursue our ways in peace ; thou knowest well that there cannot be
strife betwixt us. My arm is chained by gratitude ; thine by the
impulses of thy generous heart ! "

Herbert ! " exclaimed the Master of Wilton, after one of those
violent internal struggles which resemble the secret efforts of the
volcano ; " my life has been one continued sacrifice to love and
friendship ; at their voice I resigned happiness, domestic bliss — all
that give life its charm — all, save honour and fidelity to a suffering
nation's cause ; and that the friend of Hampden and Milton never
can betray ! "

To suppose thee capable were to doubt of truth itself."

I am set on to intercept thy journey," continued the Puritan.

I guess as much." answered the Knight of Cranfield, spurring
on his jaded steed ; for he was anxious to avoid a rencontre with
the man to whom he was under such heavy obligations.

By men to whom my word and faith have been hitherto as
things beyond suspicion. When I undertook this fatal duty I
thought not, dreamt not, thou wouldst prove the messenger.
Herbert," he added, " I have sworn by the expiring liberties of our
poor country, to prevent thy reaching Monk, to tempt his wavering
loyalty to the great cause by the insidious offers of the king. That
oath I cannot, will not break. It must be kept, if needs be, with
our lives."

"Impossible!" exclaimed Herbert ; "thou knowest my arm is
bound by gratitude's strong chain. I cannot fight with thee — my
heart would sink lest every blow I struck should wound a brother's
breast ; and thine, Wilton," he added, " would not be strengthened
bv the thought thy triumph would rob thee of a friend, and widow
Mary.' '

Had the light been strong enough, Herbert would have seen the
lip of the Master of Wilton quiver and his cheek grow pale at the
mention of the name of Mary. For some time he continued to
ride by the side of the Royalist in silence. He was too well
mounted to fear that the knight could escape him — the worn out,
jaded steed of the latter was no match for the powerful fresh horse
upon which the Puritan was mounted.

Herbert ! " he exclaimed, after a pause, " there is one way by
which we may both be saved, and this unnatural contest avoided."

"Name it," cried his companion joyfully. "I need not say let
it be compatible with honour, when it is the Master of Wilton who
proposes it."

Thou art the bearer of a packet to the general of the Parliament,
George Monk ? "

Supposing this be so ? "

It is," continued Wilton, " from the boy, Charles Stuart, whom
the infatuated people would, in their blindness, place in his
father's seat, and sacrifice their liberties in incense to their idol.
Is it not so ? "

Herbert was silent ; he could not deny that the packet, of which
he was the bearer, was from the young king : but he was too prudent
to be led into an avowal which might compromise the success of
his errand.

I will be franker with thee," said the Puritan, " than thou hast
been with me ! " for he felt hurt at the silence of his friend. " I,
too, am the bearer of a packet to the general like thine, containing
offers to the man who holds within his hands the destinies of
England. I know his character — have studied him as men study
those whose actions influence events yet in the womb of time. He
is ambitious, yet a lover of his ease ; would fain be great, yet cares
not to be greatly so ; while undecided, pliant as the clay beneath
the sculptor's hand ; decided, adamant — no prayers can touch or
interest move ! "

Thou faintest him with rare skill ! " observed the Royalist ;
I am curious to see the man who sat for such a portrait ! "

Thou shalt see him ! " continued Wilton ; " but in two
days "

To-morrow, if I live so long ! "

I tell thee, no ! " exclaimed the Puritan, doggedly.

And I tell thee, yes ! " repeated Herbert, who saw that hi g
companion was trying to work himself up to take some desperate e

resolution. " I understand thee, "Wilton ! " he continued ; " thou
wouldst propose a compromise between my duty and our friendship
; but it may not be. If thy good steed enable thee to reach
the general first, I may not complain ; but come what will, fast as
my wearied beast may carry me, I follow in thy wake ! "

"Then," said the republican, drawing his sword, " the carnal
weapon must decide. I can sacrifice love to friendship — the
dear-est hope of my existence to insure the happiness of those I
love — but not betray my country, or with parricidal hands murder
it liberties. Strike, Herbert," he added, " at the heart of him who
was — who is still thy friend Strike as thou wouldst at thy deadliest
foeman's life ! but oh, guard well thine own ! "

Scarcely had these words escaped the speaker's lips than, wheeling
his horse suddenly round, he drew his sword, and prepared to
charge the Royalist, who was not slow in following his example.
From the condition of his steed, Herbert could only remain on the
defensive. He placed himself judiciously, therefore, on the
summit of a rising piece of ground, which he calculated would
wind the horse of his assailant when brought repeatedly to the
attack. But Wilton saw his design, and at the third charge, giving
his gallant animal full rein, dashed towards his antagonist ; the
shock was terrific — Herbert and the worn-out steed rolled over andover
upon the plain, while the Puritan was borne at least two
hundred yards from the spot, before he could check the career of
his infuriated steed. Short as was the delay, it enabled the Royalist
to release himself from the fallen horse and regain his sword, which
the force of the fall had jerked out of his hand. Although terribly
bruised, he felt that he had still strength sufficient to continue the
combat.

Not vanquished yet ! " he cried, waving his weapon in defiance
over his brow ; "for God and the king ! "

God and the people ! " solemnly answered the Puritan, at the
same time dismounting from his charger, for even with a stranger
he was too generous a foe to pursue a combat upon unequal terms,
much less against a friend.

There was something almost unearthly in the sight of these
furious combatants, who, seen at a distance through the grey mists
of the morning, seemed more like gigantic shadows than beings of
earthly mould. The grass was already trampled in the form of a
circle by their heavy footsteps, and round it they fought and
fought till the track was marked by the stains of blood which
oozed from the many wounds given and received on either side.
Warmed with the excitement of battle, the antagonists forgot that
they were friends. Mercy and the ties of youth were alike forgotten,
and they fought with the desperate energy of men who
felt that they were struggling for their lives. The clash of their
weapons was the only sound which broke the stillness of the

morning, for the storm had lulled into a calm, and nature, like a
tired child, seemed to sleep upon the bosom of her mother earth.
Not a withered leaf rustled on the air, which was too damp and
heavy to stir even a slender blade of grass which braved the
inclemency of the season by peeping above ground.

Herbert and Wilton were equally matched ; the former, perhaps,
was the most brilliant swordsman of the two ; but the Puritan
possessed not only great personal strength, which enabled him to
tire out his opponent, but a quick eye and steady hand. It is
impossible to say how the contest might have terminated, but for
the bruises which the Royalist had received in his fall, and which
now began to be exceedingly painful. Wilton watched his fading
check and slackened guard. Several times he might have terminated
the struggle by the death of Herbert, but such was not his
purpose — as his success became certain, friendship and the recollection
of Mary revived — his aim was to wound the messenger of the
young king, so as to render him incapable of proceeding, but, at
the same time, to spare the life of his friend.

Yield, Herbert ! " he exclaimed. " The contest is against thee."

Never ! " sighed the exhausted Royalist.

4i Think of Mary ! "continued the Puritan.

She would hate a coward or a traitor ! No, Wilton," added the
worn-out combatant, " whate'er the result of this unhappy contest,
we must neither of us live to despise the other ! "

Collecting his remaining energies for a last effort, the speaker
rushed upon his antagonist. So well aimed was the blow he
struck, that he inflicted a deep wound upon the left arm of
Wilton, whose sword at the same moment entered the side of
the Royalist, who fell bathed in his blood ; in an instant the
Puritan was on his knee beside him, searching for the packet of
which he was the bearer.

Although wounded and unable to rise, Herbert still retained his
senses. The confidence which his exiled prince had reposed in
him he resolved to merit to the last. Placing his right hand upon
his heart to guard the precious trust, with his left he drew a pistol
from his breast, and levelled it at the victor.

Back, Wilton," he exclaimed, " if you value life ! "

Fire ! " said the Puritan ; " the charge is worthless."

Trust not to that. I discovered the treachery of which I was
the victim at York. My pistols are recharged. You know, you
feel I would not willingly take your life, though mine is fast
ebbing at your hands. For the last time," he added, faintly, " I
warn you ! "

As the Master of Wilton still struggled to obtain the packet, and
the wounded Royalist felt that his strength was all but gone, he
fired. The ball passed through the fleshy part of the neck of the
Puritan, who fell heavily by the side of his friend.

In this state the two bodies were picked up an hour afterwards
by a worthy farmer, who was driving his waggon, laden with hay,
to the ancient city of Durham, where Monk and his army had
arrived the preceding evening — a circumstance of which the
Puritan was well aware, but unsuspected by Herbert.

The dead horse, the swords, and trampled state of the ground,
explained to the rustic what had taken place. Although the times
were dangerous, he could not find it in his heart to leave them
there to perish. Stanching their wounds as well as he was able, he
placed them both carefully in the waggon, and continued his way
to Durham. On reaching the city gates, he explained to the guard
what had happened, and at the same time inquired what he was todo
with the wounded men.

Take them to some hostel," replied the officer who commanded
the post.

But dio," replied the honest fellow, " will take charge of these
two heavy purses filled with gold jacobites ? I know the conscience
of the hosts of Durham too well," he added, " to intrust
them with them. They would run dry faster than their barrels
did when the Royalists entered the city."

Persons of consequence ! " thought the officer. " I must report
this to the general." He then added aloud : " Were these all you
discovered on their persons ? "

No," replied the farmer. " There be two long scraps of parchment,
wi' seals at the end of 'em, which I opened, thinking to find
somewhat to stanch their wounds with — I threw them somewhere
'mongst the hay."

Several of the soldiers, at a sign from their superior, mounted
into the waggon, and, after some search, succeeded in finding the
two letters ; one, as our readers already are aware of, from Charles
to the general ; the other was from the leaders of the Independents
and fifth-monarchy men, offering to Monk the Protectorate, as the
only means of preventing the restoration of the exiled king.

Heaven ! " exclaimed the officer, turning pale, as his eye glanced
over them ; " have you read these ? "

Noa, noa," said the farmer. " I had something else to do than
to waste my time in learning to make out such crooked things as
these."

Arrest that man ! " said the officer, but half-convinced that the
farmer spoke the truth.

"What ! arrest I !" exclaimed the astonished rustic. "Well, if
that bent a nice way o' thanking a man for doing his duty to his
fellow-christians. I only wish I may find thee in the same pickle,
that be all ! Arrest I ! Who," he added, in a solemn tone, as if
convinced that the officer must yield to the importance of the
consideration — "who is to look after horses ? "

They shall be seen to," said the commander of the post, with

a smile. " Take the waggon and the two wounded gentlemen," he
continued to the soldiers, "to the quarters of the general, and bring
the driver along with you. As you value your lives, let him not
exchange a word with any human being. You know me — I
never threaten or promise, but I perform ! "

Conscious that his orders would be obeyed to the very letter, the
speaker galloped off to the quarters of his superior, leaving the
men to follow with the astonished farmer and the senseless
messengers.

George Monk, on whom the hopes of both parties, Royalists as
well as Republicans, were placed, was at this period in the very
prime of life and vigour. Circumstances at an early age had
caused him to take service in the army of the Parliament under
Fairfax ; but with a prudence which those who could not read his
character found it difficult to account for, he carefully abstained
from taking part in any but the military events of his time. As a
politician he was untried ; the Royalists regarded him as a mere
soldier, and the Independents, who looked upon him much in
the same light, trusted to use him as a tool to establish their
tottering authority, prevent the restoration of the king, and, consequently,
what they feared still more than the restoration, the
introduction of prelacy and the Established Church within the
kingdom. Neither parties knew the man with whom they had to
treat ; he was one of those men who are their own counsellors, and
whose determinations are never suspected till the acts which result
from them are accomplished.

The general was seated at a table in his tent, perusing, with
certain signs of impatience, a packet of letters which had just
arrived. Some he merely glanced at and threw on one side, others
were carefully perused from beginning to end, and placed in a
black letter-case beside him.

Still not the ones I expected ! " he muttered, with an air of
impatience ; " the fools will play with me too long ! I am in the
position of a man cast on some desert shore, who has found a
treasure with which he knows not what to do. How now ? " he
added, in an angry tone, as the heavy scarlet drapery of the tent
was raised, and an officer, with an air of great embarrassment,
presented himself ; " were not my orders strict not to be
disturbed ? "

They were, general."

Why am I not obeyed then ? Go, sir, and learn that a soldier's
first duty is obedience ! "

The chidden subaltern was about to withdraw, when the curtain
of the tent was once more drawn aside, and the commander of the
guard at the city gate presented himself. This time the general
was really angry, for he was, above all things, a disciplinarian in

the camp.

"You, too, Cunningham?" he exclaimed; "this is past
hearing ! "

The new-comer signed to the first officer to leave the tent, who,
desiring nothing better than to escape the presence of the infuriated
general, obeyed.

General ! " said the officer, firmly, " there are circumstances
which render it necessary to break even your consign, and such a
one has but now occurred."

Indeed ! " said Monk, somewhat ironically, for he suspected
the worthy subaltern had found a mare's nest ; " pray proceed."

The man related the arrival of the farmer with the wounded
strangers at the city gates, and the discovery of the two letters,
which, at the end of his narration, he placed in the hands of the
general, who rapidly glanced over the contents.

The seals have been broken ! " he exclaimed, sternly.

But not by me, general."

"Who then ?"

The farmer who found them on the persons of the wounded
messengers."

"Arrest that man ! " continued Monk ; " it is of importance that
his person be secured."

I judged as much," replied the officer, " and have brought him
prisoner with me."

Right, very right ! " exclaimed his superior with a smile of
approbation ; " you were right when you said that there were circumstances
which render it necessary to break even my consign ! "

The speaker, as if an idea had suddenly struck him, approached
the officer, and, fixing his eyes upon him, sternly demanded if he
had read the letters.

I have, general," was the calm and quick reply.

And what security have I for your fidelity ? "

The subaltern quietly pointed to the letters.

Monk understood him — understood by that simple action that
nothing would have been easier than for him to have forwarded
the letter of the king to the Parliament or to the leaders of the
Independents, who would have paid largely for the treachery.

True ! " exclaimed the general ; " thou hast acted loyally in
this, and I will not wrong thee by a doubt ; thy frankness hath
atoned for thy indiscretion. Hadst thou but hesitated an instant
in thy answer — had I read in thine eye or quivering lip the intention
to deceive me — I had sent thee where treason is impotent ; as
it is, I trust thee. Remember," he added, " that I trust but few —
that watchful eyes are upon thee, and hands ready to execute my
will surround thee. Breathe the secret but to tin-self, and better
thou hadst never been born than answer to my wrath. Where is
the farmer ? "

I brought him a close prisoner with me."

'Tis well ; draw out a file of men."
General ! " said the astonished officer.

And in ten minutes let the roll of their muskets announce that
the secret he has imprudently possessed himself of is buried with
him. Where a kingdom's safety is at stake, I dare not hesitate ! "
General ! " exclaimed the honest fellow, shocked at the cool
barbarity of the order ; " trust me the precaution is a vain one —
the rustic cannot read."

Must I speak twice ? " haughtily demanded Monk.
The officer advanced slowly to the entrance of the tent, loth to
execute the command he had received. Suddenly turning round,
he approached his commander, and, falling on his knees, entreated
him to recall an order Which he knew to be useless as cruel, offering
to guarantee with his life the truth of his statement, that the farmer
could not read. Monk listened to him suspiciously, hesitated an
instant, and then bade him rise.

"We shall see," he exclaimed, unwilling, perhaps, uselessly to
shed the blood of his prisoner ; " call in the officer who waits
without ; but as thou values thy life, quit not my presence, even
for a moment."

The soldier, whose heart was not quite hardened by his fearful
trade, marched to the opening of the tent, which he held open and
called to the officer on guard, who instantly made his appearance,
and, after saluting the general, quietly awaited his orders.

You have three prisoners without ? " said Monk.

The officer replied in the affirmative.

"The two wounded gentlemen conduct to the tent of my
physician ; let their hurts be tended, and every care taken of
them. Place a guard of my own regiment near them, and let
none, without an order signed by my hand, approach. See," he
added, " that you keep the present consign better than the last."

Fear not, general," replied the captain, colouring at the reproof;
"it is not twice in the same day that the officers you have trained
neglect their duty."

'Tis well ! " said the commander, with a slight smile ; for he
was proud of the high state of discipline and devotion of his army.
The first fault, perhaps, was not without excuse ; bring hither the
farmer."

In five minutes the rustic, whose humanity ran the risk of being
so ill rewarded, stood within the tent, guarded by a file of men.
The poor fellow, perfectly unconscious of the danger of his position,
thought only of his horses, and the annoyance of being detained
from the sale of his hay.

Thy name ? " demanded Monk, eying him with an air which
boded him little good.

Stephen Harper," replied the rustic ; " but what best thee
going to do wi' my name ? "

Thou shalt see," said the general, taking up a pen, and hastily-writing
on a blank sheet of paper the following order to the
provost-marshal of the army : —

Within ten minutes after the receipt of this present order, let
the prisoner, Stephen Harper, be led to the outskirts of the camp,
and shot. Signed, " GEORGE Monk."

What be this ? " said the farmer, turning it over in his hands
without attempting to read it, with a bewildered look ; " and what
am I to do wr it ? "

Look at it, and you will see."

The farmer did look at it, but his countenance never changed,
nor did the slightest movement of the lip or eye indicate that he
understood the fearful import of the paper in his hand.

Have I looked at it long enough ? " he demanded.

If thou hast read it."

If I look at it till I read," said the poor fellow, " my eyes will
grow dim, and yours tired of watching me. I can plough, reap,
tend sheep, and, maybe, am no bad judge of cattle ; but I canna
read."

Monk took the paper from the speaker's hand, and as he did so,
contrived to place his fingers on his pulse — it beat calmly as a
child's. The suspicions of the general were dissipated — he at once
tore up the order.

He cannot read," he muttered to himself, " and the sacrifice
would be useless " ; then, turning to the officer, he said aloud,
•' Release that man, and see him safely through the camp. Let him
be rewarded," he added, "for his humanity to the wounded
messengers."

The worthy subaltern, whose courageous remonstrance had saved
the life of the farmer, hastily led him from the tent, where he had
run so great a risk without suspecting even that he was in danger,
and, by Monk's order, counted ten pieces of gold to him.

What be this for ? "

"For thy loss of time," said the officer, "and humanity to the
wounded strangers."

Egad ! " said the rustic, " but the general nun be rich to fling
good about in that fashion ; not that I want it for giving a poor
devil a cast in the waggon ! General had better be honest before
he is generous, and pay I for the corn and hay his soldiers have
taken from the farm the last three days. They would ha' fetched
a round sum in Durham market. See what they left I for corn and
hay instead of the brass ! "

Fear not," said the officer, with a smile, as he took the forage
tickets in his hand ; " you shall be paid."

Shall I, though ? Well that's what soldier said ! "

Follow me," said the officer, leading the way to the com-vol.
ITT. C C

emissary's tent, who, on their arrival, discharged the demands of
the honest rustic, whose astonishment on receiving the value of his
corn and hay was great as his content. He was not long in
conveying the money into his huge pocket.

"Dang it! " he exclaimed, "after all, there be some use in learning
to read ; perhaps the general would have been better pleased
wi' I."

I think not ! " said the officer, drily.

Well, pleased or not, thou best an honest fellow, and if
ever thee comest sideways, come and see I. There be good ale in
the barrel, and a hearty welcome. I would stay longer, and have
a crack with ye, but I " he added, suddenly recollecting himself.
" Lord save us ! who is to look after the horses ! "

Three days afterwards the army of Monk advanced towards
London ; during its progress the general was continually receiving
messengers. They arrived at ail hours of the night, and were
instantly admitted to his presence. Within two days' march of
the metropolis, to the astonishment of his officers, he commanded
his forces to encamp, and the same night, after giving strict
injunctions that every messenger who arrived should be detained a
prisoner till his return, left the camp alone.

Richard, the young heir of Cranfield, resembled in his disposition
the impetuous, generous Knight of Keinton, his maternal
grandfather, after whom he had been named ; like him, he was
devotedly Royalist. Heedless of consequences where his opinions
and affections were concerned, his love for his mother amounted
almost to idolatry. In the height of his passions, a single look
from her would calm him. With a woman's tact and mother's
fondness, she had studied at an early age the character of her
eldest born, and ruled him through his affection — the only mode
of government a parent should employ. Want of respect to her
was in his eyes the deepest crime of which any human being could
be capable.

It was not without considerable pain, therefore, that he witnessed
the, to him, extraordinary and offensive conduct of the guest who
had been so unexpectedly obtruded on them. The Lady of
Cranfield might enter the saloon a dozen times during the day
without his once rising from his seat ; indeed he had once or
twice carried his rusticity so far as to point to a chair on her
entrance into the apartment, and bid her be seated.

Decidedly," he muttered to himself, " his name must really be
Jack Cade ; no one with a cognomen less brutal could be wanting
in deference to a lady, and that lady the hostess in whose mansion
he found shelter ! "

The stranger, who, with all his apparent rusticity, was a shrewd
observer of the world, was not long in perceiving the unfavourable
impression he had made on the mind of the young man ; but,

instead of changing his conduct, he seemed to take a pleasure instill
further increasing the brusquely of his manners ; not less to
the annoyance of the lady herself than her son. The former
trembled every moment at the knit brow and quivering lip of her
gallant boy, fearful lest an explosion should take place, which
must inevitably lead to the explanation she wished to avoid ; not
that she really felt Imrt at the stranger's manners, which, considering
their respective positions, were courteous enough, however
strange they Slight appear in the eyes of Richard.

Remember," she would say to him, " that he is your father's
guest, and that in his absence you are bound to show him not only
hospitality, but all the forbearance in your power."

My patience," answered the young man, "is almost at an end.
Would to Heaven my father would return • Heaven forgive me the
inhospitable thought, but at times I feel really tempted to turn
him from the house ! "

Now Heaven forbid ! " exclaimed Mary.

M Mother," exclaimed the young man, fixing his eyes upon her,
tell me who is this stranger, whose presence evidently awes
you ? Perhaps some disguised noble from the Court of our poor
monarch."

His mother remained silent.

If even so," continued her son, " neither his rank nor the mission
he is intrusted with by Charles can justify his rudeness to you.
By the crest of my race," he added, "were he a king he could
scarcely show more royal fashions ! The blood of Cranfield and
Keinton, methinks, merits more consideration ! "

At this moment the conversation was interrupted by the entrance
of Jack Cade into the apartment. Without a word he walked to a
chair, quietly seated himself, and, turning graciously to his hostess,
requested her to follow his example. There was a mocking smile
upon his lips as he observed the heightened colour of her son.
Mary's look seemed to implore his forbearance, as she hurriedly
took the chair to which he pointed.

Fear not ! " whispered the stranger ; " I but enrage my falcon
to mark its fiery eye and ruffled plumage. I love the bird too well
to wrong it."

I have a question, sir, to put to you ! " exclaimed Richard,
unable longer to restrain himself.

And I an order to give to you ! "

An order ? " repeated the young man with astonishment.

Remember ! " continued Jack Cade, " the commands of your
father — you are to obey me in everything ! "

True ! " cried the young man, stamping with impotent passion
on the floor ; " till his return : when, if he does not demand account
of your strange proceedings here, I shall ! "

I shall prefer rendering an account of my conduct to yon ! "
VOL. III. c c 2

continued his tormentor, bowing with mock gravity, which caused
poor Richard to bite his lips in order to repress his passion.

I accept your promise ! " he exclaimed, pale with rage, at the
same time touching the hilt of his rapier.

In ten daj's ! " said Jack Cade.

In ten days ? "

Till then," continued the stranger, "let there be peace between
us. To-night, exactly at the eleventh hour, an old beggar man
will implore charity at the door of the mansion ; under pretence
of affording him relief you will admit him to the house, and
conduct him to my chamber."

I will not fail you, sir," replied the young man, petulantly.

Not as you value your father's honour or your mother's love,"
exclaimed the Lady of Cranfield, rising. " I can trust," she said,
to my boy's honour — that I know to be unshakeable ; although,"
she added, with a faint smile, " his temper may be somewhat too
easily moved."

That very night the interview between Jack Cade and the
beggar took place ; it lasted till daybreak ; and on the following
morning Monk, in his place in Parliament, announced that a
messenger was without with letters from the king. He was
admitted by acclamation, the terms of accommodation proposed by
Charles agreed to, and the assembly separated, with loud cries of
God save King Charles ! "

The next day, without bidding adieu to anyone, Jack Cade left
the house of the Knight of Cranfield. The eagerness with which
both the Parliament and the people received the Restoration,
proves how heartily they were tired of civil war. Charles, who
was supposed all the while to be at the Hague, exactly ten days
after his being proclaimed in London made his public entrance into
the metropolis. The streets were thronged with the spectators.
Here and there might be seen a group of Independents, gazing
on the gorgeous pageant with disdainful eye and knitted brow,
but the majority of the populace hailed with delight the descendant
of their ancient kings. The Lady of Cranfield and her son,
abandoning for a moment the sick chamber of the wounded
knight, whom Monk had caused to be conveyed, as soon as he was
in a fit state to be moved, to his own house, were in the balcony.
Tears of gladness and of triumph w T ere in the eyes of each, as the
procession moved in stately pomp along the Strand.

What grace, what dignity ! " exclaimed the enthusiastic
Richard, as Charles, doffing his plumed hat, bowed right and
left to the people.

See you nothing of the rustic in his manner ? " demanded his
mother, with a smile .

"Rustic? Why he is nobleness itself ! See !" he added, as his
majesty arrived opposite the balcony, " the king recognises you !

By Heavens he dismounts ! It is to us, mother ! " he added, with
a shout of triumph ; " that the first visit of our restored monarch is
paid !"

Haste and receive him ! " said the lady, with a flush of noble
pride ; " I am not deceived in him ! Charles has his father's
generous heart, if not his judgment ! "

At the entrance of the mansion, which the astonished servitors
had opened wide, the Lady of Cranfield and her son received their
Royal visitor. The Duke of York, Clarendon, Wilmot, Earl of
Rochester, and the ambassadors from the Hague, were with him.

Rise, madam ! " said Charles, graciously extending his hand ;
and please you to conduct me to my noble friend, the Knight of
Cranfield ! "

The heart of Richard trembled at the sound of the voice. 'Tie
true the long flaxen locks which had disguised him were wanting,
but he recognised the laughing eye and mocking lip of his father's
late guest, Jack Cade. He was about to retire when the ki ng, perceiving
him, in a loud voice called him by name.

There is a cartel between us — the blood of Stuart and of Stan-field
must not belie their source ! "

The monarch drew his sword as he spoke.

Sire ! " said the young man, bending the knee ; " my folly —
blindness "

Odds fish, man, speak of it no more ! But for thy humour we
should have passed a dull time in this old mansion, despite the
hospitality," he added, bowing graciously, "of our kind hostess.
We are thy debtor, and in token of our love and thanks, arise Sir
Richard Cranfield. Now, then, madam, our quarrel ended, conduct
us to our noble host."

CHAPTER XXVI.

A FAINT blush of pride and pleasure suffused the pale cheek of
Herbert of Cranfield, when he saw his restored sovereign enter the
chamber where he was slowly recovering from his wounds ; the
trials, dangers, and privations he had endured in the Royal cause
were forgotten in the gratitude of the moment, for the visit of
Charles, paid thus publicly at the very moment of his triumphant
entry into the capital of his dominions, proved that he had a heart.
Pity that his after-reign should prove how much more difficult it
is for poor humanity to endure prosperity than adversity. A smile
was upon the lips of Mary, while the tear glistened in her eye ;
the feelings which filled her breast were like an April shower —
rain and sunshine, joy and sorrow, mingled ; she could not help
reflecting how her poor devoted old father, the stalwart Knight of

Keinton, would have rejoiced, had his life been spared to witness 8
the triumph of that hour.

Sire," exclaimed Herbert, endeavouring to raise himself from
his couch, " this unexpected honour "

Tush, man, tush ! " interrupted Charles, gracefully advancing
to the side of the bed and cordially taking him by the hand ; " weare
too much your debtor to stand on ceremony with so dear a
friend ; the only regret which clouds the present hour is that the
gallant Earl of Cranfield is not riding by our side on the day which
witnesses our entrance into London."

Earl of Cranfield ! " repeated both Herbert and Mary, with
surprise.

Certainly," said the king ; " I could not grace with an inferior
title the man who has so often risked his life in the defence of our
royal father and our throne, and who henceforth must assist us in
the task of governing our people wisely. The time will seem
long," he added, " till we see him and his charming countess at
St. James's."

The emotion of Herbert for some moments was too great to
permit him to reply. If Charles II. did — and no one acquainted
with the life of that versatile monarch will dispute it — many
foolish things, it is equally certain that no prince ever said more
graceful ones.

"Sire," at last murmured the new-made earl, successfully
mastering his emotion : " if I do not bend the knee to thank your
majesty for this unexpected honour, which is doubly precious
from the hour and manner in which it is conferred, it is that "

"You have already rendered us a homage more acceptable.
Next to Heaven, it is to you, my lord, we owe our throne. Had
the offer of accommodation from Lambert and the Independents
reached Monk before our royal missive, Charles might still have
been residing at the Hague, the unwelcome guest of his good
friend the Stadtholder. Farewell ; for your sovereign's sake, let
him see you as soon as possible at St. James's. I must tear myself
away," he added, with a satirical smile, as the shouts of the
enthusiastic multitude penetrated even to the sick lord's chamber ;
our faithful subjects are impatient at our delay. Was it our
fault, my lord, their loyalty was not gratified before ? "

There was a bitterness in the tone of the speaker in pronouncing
the last words, which showed how deeply the humiliations he had
endured during his long years of exile rankled in his heart.
Raising his plumed hat, he gallantly kissed the hand of the
countess as he raised her from her knee, or rather prevented her
from bending it before him.

It is I, madam, that am your debtor. I am not to learn how
nearly my visit to the old Manor House compromised the lives of
those dearest to you. No further," he continued ; " my lord cannot

spare his nurse and best physician from his side. My young
friend here will conduct me to my horse ! "

As the king descended the great staircase of the stately mansion,
leaning on the shoulder of Sir Richard Cranfield, he quietly
whispered in his ear :

"Well, sir knight, has Charles the Second atoned for the rudeness
of Jack Cade ? "

A few moments afterwards, and the gorgeous cavalcade moved
on amid the enthusiastic cheers of the crowd of citizens. The
balconies of the mansions which lined the Strand were thronged
with lovely faces. Jewels which had long been hid in the secret
recesses of the stately old Halls of England, blazed once more
upon the neck of beauty, but were eclipsed by the humid lustre of
their wearers' eyes, as Charles, f ollowedby the elite of his nobility,
slowly moved on, bowing to the fair dames right and left. Smiles
and flowers were rained on him, followed by glances which might
have warmed the frozen blood of age, and lit love's torch at its
expiring shrine.

Jacques," whispered the king, turning to his brother the
Duke of York, who rode on his right hand ; " after the amphibious
beauties of the Hague, is it not refreshing to gaze upon genuine
flesh and blood — warm, palpitating, young and generous ? Till
this hour I never felt but half the treason of the Roundheads ! "

"True, sire!" said the Duke of Buckingham, who was near
enough to overhear the remark. " France and Holland by turns
consoled you ! "

This was in allusion to two of Charles's acknowledged mistresses
the notorious Countess of Castlemaine, who followed him to
England, and Madame Van Speck, the buxom wife of the
burgomaster of the Hague.

Know you not, Villiers," added Rochester in one of those
whispers which are intended to be overheard, " that his most
gracious majesty intends to reform ? "

When ?" demanded the duke, in a tone of affected surprise.

As soon as my Lord of Clarendon shall think fit ! " replied the
earl. " The modern Cato is to be the censor of the new Court.
Morality is now the mode ; gallantry has grown discreet, and even
Royalty bends to the fashion ! "

This last remark of the libertine speaker was levelled at the
Chancellor Clarendon, a man of incorruptible integrity, but
highly distasteful to the gay, dissipated courtiers of the newly-restored
monarch, who looked upon England as a sort of Eden,
from whose pleasures they had been too long exiled, and were
determined to make up for the privations of the past by indulging
in every sensual pleasure for the future. He knew Charles's
weakness — the dread of ridicule ; it was by attacking that they
hoped to deprive him of his minister. Fortunately, the moment

they had chosen was not the one in which they were likely to
succeed.

You press too near his majesty," said the Duke of York, who
had overheard the conversation, and who, turning suddenly round,
confronted the two noblemen with an angry look. Their attempt
touched him nearly ; for his royal highness was secretly married
to the Chancellor's daughter Anne, and he felt an injury levelled
at her father as an insult to himself.

Our duty, your highness," exclaimed the duke, haughtily, his
handsome countenance flushed with rage at the reproof, " is ? "

"To respect the brother of the king as the king himself,"
interrupted Charles, turning towards them. "Let not the first
day of my reign be marked by discord between those who were
my friends in poverty and exile. It will come soon enough," he
added, with a foreboding sigh ; " soon enough ! "

Without proffering a word, both Buckingham and Rochester
drew back. It was one of the very few days in his life on which
the speaker acted and felt as a king. With all his weakness, his
courtiers knew that Charles could be master when he would, and
that at such moments it was even dangerous to thwart him. They
put up, therefore, with the humiliation, and bit their lips in silence.

The Jesuit," said Buckingham, as soon as they had withdrawn
to a convenient distance, " sides with the minister."

By the term "Jesuit " the speaker designated the Duke of York,
who was frequently called so by the Court, on account of his being
a Catholic.

See you anything wonderful in that ? " demanded the earl,
considering the tie which exists between them ? "

What tie ? " exclaimed the duke.

A mysterious smile curled the lips of Rochester, but he remained
silent.

If you mean Jacques's passion," continued the speaker, " for
the Puritanical fright Clarendon calls his daughter, it has long been
the jest of all the Court. Rowley (a nickname for the king) and I
have laughed at it a hundred times."

And what, your grace," whispered the earl, " does love generally
end in ? "

Zounds ! " said the duke ; " in an intrigue, of course."

Aye," continued the prince of libertines ; " but not where the
maid has a lynx-eyed father to plot, and watch, and instruct his
child in every turn and weakness ; or where the lover labours
under the antiquated prejudice that there is such a thing as
morality in the world. In such cases a passion sometimes ends
in "

In what ? " demanded his grace, impatiently, seeing that his
companion hesitated, either from fear, or on purpose to tantalise
him.

".!):;

*f In marriage," whispered Rochester.

Marriage ? "

« Hush ! "

Mean you that ? "

Speak lower," said the earl. " I mean that the Duke of York
has for some time been secretly married to Anne Hyde, the
daughter of our enemy the Chancellor, and that the proofs are in
my possession."

Rowley will be furious," observed the duke.

Perhaps ! "

Are you aware that her mother was ? "

Pshaw ! Charles respects chastity so little in his own person,
that in conscience he cannot find fault with the want of it in others.
Besides, after having solicited the hand of the niece of that Italian
mountebank, Mazarin, for himself, I don't see how he can decently
find fault with his brother for marrying the daughter of his Chancellor.
Blood for blood, the English wench is the better born
of the two."

And you say the Cardinal refused ? "

With contempt," continued Rochester. " Charles's fortunes at
the time were at the lowest ebb since the death of the Protector
Cromwell, whose blunder, between ourselves, in refusing the
crown, was greater than his crime — for the English love the name
of king. The wily statesman sought to renew the negotiation. It
was then Charles's turn to refuse."

The secret," said Buckingham, after a few minutes' reflection,
"arms us at least against our enemy."

If used discreetly," observed the earl.

Leave that to me," continued his grace. " Clarendon's daughter,
Duchess of York ! Never," he added, biting his lip with passion;
never shall my enemy have that triumph over me ! Place but
your foot to mine, my lord, and the means by which this subtle
statesman hopes to rise shall work his disgrace and downfall."

I am with your grace," said the earl. " But pray be cautious !
Charles, like his unhappy father, has moments of heart and
generosity, in which his feelings outweigh every other consideration.
The king respects his minister, and loves his brother."

Pshaw ! " replied the duke, with an accent of contempt, as if
astonished that a man of Rochester's perception could believe, even
for a moment, that their royal master ever loved anyone or anything
save himself.

By this time the procession reached Charing Cross, where the
pedestal which had formerly sustained the fine equestrian statue
of Charles I. still remained, although dismantled of its burden,
and the inscription effaced. It had been sold, by order of the
Parliament, to a cutler, who, instead of melting it down, as he had
agreed to do, buried it secretly in his garden, speculating on the

probability of a restoration ; it was soon afterwards restored to its
former position, where it still remains to ornament the metropolis,
and accuse the vandalism of the Roundheads, who, whatever their
ideas of liberty, were sad patrons of the arts.

At this point of the route the crowd of citizens was most compact.
So dense was the multitude, that it was impossible to pass
down Parliament-street. The king was consequently spared the
pain of passing by Whitehall, where his father bad laid his head
upon the block, but proceeded by the Mall to the palace of St.
James's, accompanied by the members of both Houses, the Lord
Mayor of London, and a train of nobility and courtiers, who vied
with each other in expressions of loyalty and triumph at his 
restoration. As Charles alighted at the gate of the
palace of his fathers, he cast a last look upon the sea of human
beings which thronged the street, and the glorious array of beauty
which thronged the balconies of the stately mansions bordering
the Mall.

These people, Jacques," he whispered to his brother, " seem so
glad to see us, that decidedly it must have been our own fault we
have so long been absent ! "

The Duke of York was silent. The name of Cromwell was on
his lips, but he was unwilling to cloud the triumph of the hour by
pronouncing it ; and yet with all his foresight, events afterwards
proved that he was less politic than his brother.

If Charles II. was received with enthusiasm by the nation, he
was welcomed with delirium by the Parliament, which it was the
first care of the restored monarch to assemble. Acts of attainder
were passed against the judges of the late king ; the Church was
restored, as it existed previous to the Revolution ; prerogative upon
prerogative was heaped upon the king, whom both Houses seemed
to look upon as an idol, in whose honour they were but too happy
to offer the sacrifice of their liberties ; the Independent preachers
were driven from the churches with as little ceremony as they had
used in taking possession of them, the Universities purged of
their intruders, and affairs re-established as far as possible upon
the ancient footing. The general wish seemed to be, if possible,
to efface the memory of the Revolution. As yet it was, with all
its errors and ambitions, a glorious one, for its objects were the
progress and emancipation of England from the tradition and cold
tyranny of ages. It boasted of Hampden, Milton, Cromwell, Pym,
Vane, and a host of names which, with inferior brilliancy, circle
like satellites round the planets of the intellectual world. The
Legislature at last became alarmed at their own work, and regarded
with suspicion the idol it had reared.

As soon as the Earl of Cranfield was sufficiently recovered from
his wounds, he took the oaths and his seat in the new Parliament
which Charles had summoned ; was sworn in of the Privy Council,

and loaded with honours by his grateful sovereign, who had previously
created Monk Duke of Albemarle, Knight of the Garter,
and appointed him his lieutenant both in Scotland and Ireland.
In the midst of these honours, the fallen party of the Independents
were persecuted with the utmost rigour. Strict orders
were given to arrest the regicides still remaining in England ; even
the Master of Wilton, although he had refused to sit as one of
Charles's judges, was included in the proscription. Milton alone
escaped — the majesty of his genius protected him ; besides, he had
never taken an active part in the Revolution, though he had
defended both it and the late king's death with the eloquence of
his pen.

Mary observed, during the day which followed the council in
which these orders had been debated, the trouble and sorrow
which weighed down the spirits of her husband. A hundred
times he was tempted to unfold to her the danger in which the
companion of her childhood was placed ; but his oath as a Privy
Councillor prevented him. Bitterly did he curse the honour
which made him a party to the arrest and condemnation of one of
the best of men. That unhappy day was followed by a ball at
Court, at which Mary, for the first time, appeared in all the
splendour of her newly-acquired rank.

Countess ! " said Charles, as he led her to a seat, after the
graceful old-fashioned dance of the Paton, " our Coxirt this night
is doubly graced by your presence and your husband's. Think
not," he added, " the infamous attempt upon his life shall pass
unpunished."

Sire, danger in the service of your Royal house is the appanage
of our family."

'* Loyalty in its sons and beauty in its daughters have long been
its characteristics ! " gallantly replied the king ; " but the punishment
ends not in the defeat of the attempt — this very day orders
in council were issued for the arrest of the Roundhead Master of

Wilton, and soon the scaffold But what is the matter, lady ? "

added Charles, seeing the colour fade from the cheek of the
countess, and that she was scarcely able to stand ; " I thought you
had too firm a heart to shrink at the contemplation of a necessary
act of justice ?"

Trials, many trials have shaken it ! " faltered the countess,
struggling to recover her composure ; " my husband, I am certain,
feels no resentment against the unhappy cause of your displeasure."

Not he ! " replied the monarch, laughing ; " nay, he even
pleaded for him in the council ! "

"I am sure he would!" thought Mary; then added aloud,
since my husband then forgives him, sire ? "

But we do not ! " resumed the king, sternly ; "he is one of
the most determined of our enemies ; the more to be feared,

perhaps, because less debased by crime and evil passions than
others. I cannot contend against cool-headed, plotting fanatics,
who follow their purpose with the dangerous instinct of the bloodhound
and the serpent's cunning. To the dearest friend I had on
earth I would refuse the life of that dangerous man ! "

At this moment the eyes of Mary and her husband, who was
sufficiently near to overhear the conversation between Charles and
his wife, met. In an instant she understood the cause of the gloom
which during the day had clouded him, and read in his eloquent
glance the approval of the design she formed. Oh, how wearisome
and long did that stately pageant seem ! the lights to her eyes burnt
dim, and the music breathed but discord. She loathed the brilliant
trappings of her rank, which for the first time she wore, and longed
impatiently for the moment when she could cast them off and fly
upon her errand of friendship and mercy.

Seizing the first occasion to quit the room after the Queen
Dowager had retired, the generous-hearted woman left the palace
and made the best of her way across the Park to the modest house
in Westminster, the residence of the poet Milton, where she had
heard the Master of Wilton had found refuge. On her way she
encountered her son, whose astonishment at meeting his mother
at such an hour, unattended, may more easily be imagined than
described. A large cloak partially hid her brilliant attire, but as
the night wind, in the hurry of her march, blew back its heavy
folds, the blaze of jewels and cloth of gold flashed occasionally,
like the glitter of stars peeping through the dark veil of night.

Heavens ! " exclaimed the young man, " and at such an hour ! "

All hours are alike, Richard," replied the countess, " when
duty calls us. For years I have had a debt of gratitude and
friendship to discharge ; the moment has arrived — the creditor is
waiting ! "

"And who," demanded the knight, "is this mysterious
creditor ? "

The Master of Wilton ! "

The Master of Wilton ? " repeated Richard, with astonishment;
the man whose sword nearly deprived me of a father — you of a
husband ! It cannot be ! Say that my ears deceive me ; it is not
for a traitor like to Wilton that the Countess of Cranfield, forgetful
of her rank and name, quits the palace of her sovereign in darkness
and in secrecy to save a man ! "

"Who twice preserved the life and honour of thy mother,"
interrupted the countess ; " whose sword, ungenerous boy, spared
thee at the mention of that mother's name ! "

True," said the youth ; " I at least have no right to blame thy
purpose. Let me go with thee ? "

Not so, my son."

Why ? " demanded Richard.

Thou art the soldier of the king, and a soldier's honour should
be like his sword — without a stain. Think'st thou that had not
thy father been bound by his oath as a Privy Councillor not to
reveal what passes at the Board, he had left to rne the task of
paying our mutual debt ? "

How learnt you, then, the Master of Wilton's danger ? "

From the king himself."

Mother," said the young man, " I cannot, will not, leave you
in a spot like this at such an hour, alone and unprotected ; my first
duty is, after God, to you ; my second, to the king. Let what will
befall the enterprise, thy son will share it. I must accompany
you ! "

At a distance, then ! "

Be it so."

The house to which I go lies near the Almonry ; the last and
only time I ever crossed its threshold I was a fugitive, proscribed
and tracked by one who was a fearful enemy ! "

By Barford ? "

Even he," replied the countess, with a shudder.

I have heard the villain's name, and remember well his merited
reward at Cromwell's hands. Come, then," continued the young
man, drawing his sword, " fear not, mother, for, as thou mayest, thy
errand is of mercy ; Heaven and thy son are watching over
thee ! "

A few minutes later, and Mary found herself once more in the
modest mansion of the poet. Nothing in the arrangement of the
apartment showed the downfall of the master. There were the
same manuscripts, instruments of music, and books, scattered over
the table. The only perceptible addition was a writing-desk, on
which lay a thick volume of writing-paper ; the first leaf alone was
written on. Impelled by an involuntary feeling of curiosity, the
countess glanced her eye over the page — it bore the glorious title
of " Paradise Lost." She had scarcely read the immortal words,
when the door opened, and Milton stood before her.

Though years had elapsed since their last interview, his person
was unchanged. There was the same exquisite simplicity and
propriety of dress, the same cold, calm beauty of countenance,
which reflected, as from a mirror, the purity of the poet's mind.
His eyes alone were feeble. Disgusted with the vice and weakness
of the world, the earthly sight of Milton had grown dim in
proportion as his mental light had strengthened. The brilliant
appearance of the countess in her jewels and robe of state neither
surprised nor awed him. He had too long been acquainted with
her generous nature to suppose, even for an instant, that the love
of vain display had brought her to his humble mansion — his heart
divined her purpose. He felt that her errand was of friendship
and of mercy. The smile with which he welcomed her was the

reflection of the pleasure he felt in finding that, in woman's heartsome
trace of forfeit Eden lingered still.

"Welcome," he cried, "dear lady ! Welcome as when, in the
hour of adversity, you first sought these doors ; not, if I rightly
guess, that your visit is to me?"

To one," said Mary, " whom we both love as a friend ; for better
than most we know his heart, his many virtues, and unblemished
life. Danger threatens that valued friend ? unjust and cruel men
seek his life. But this very hour, in the midst of the gay and
brilliant throng which crowd the palace of St. James's, I learnt
his danger. The days of the Master of Wilton are threatened."

I know it, lady," said the poet, calmly. " He is prepared to
meet it. He hath not lived so long in this frail world without
acquiring the bitter knowledge that all are mortal. Death is
humanity's last debt. The just man fears not to discharge it."

But not upon the scaffold," interrupted Mary, " surrounded by
the yelling crowd and mocking faces ; no kind hand to close the
fading eye — no loved voice to whisper consolation ; it is not thus
the friend of my childhood, the preserver of my life, and life's
richest gem, my honour, should bid the world farewell ! "

The scaffold ? " exclaimed Milton, in astonishment. " They
will not dare ! "

What will not cruelty and power dare ? "

On what pretext ? "

He was of those who fought against the Royal cause — the friend
of Hampden, Cromwell, Pym, and those stern men who sealed
their triumph in the blood of Charles. Doubt not the truth of
the sad tidings ; not an hour since I had it from the lips of the
king himself. There is no hope of mercy," she added ; 4k his heart
is iron. This very day the arrest of Wilton and his friends was
decided in the council."

And thy husband, lady ? " said the poet, fixing on her an
inquiring glance, which seemed to demand if he had no debt of
gratitude to discharge towards the threatened man as well as herself.

Pleaded in vain," hastily replied Mary. " Think not his heartless
true than mine ! "

Perhaps ! "

Oh, do not misjudge him ! " she added. " Remember, he is of
the council, bound by oath to secrecy, and doubly bound by
honour. Hadst thou, like me, throughout the live-long day,
marked the silent agony of his soul — the struggle between friendship
and stern duty ; hadst thou but witnessed the glorious smile
of triumph which lit his eye when the lips of Charles himself
informed me of the Master of Wilton's danger — the smile which
expressed, in its mute eloquence, the conviction that the debt of
loyalty and friendship would both be paid — thou wouldst not
doubt him ! "

He were indeed but poorly read in human worth who doubted
thee ! " said Milton, raising her hand with veneration and pressing
it to his lips ; for to a mind so exquisitely organised as his, there
was no higher pleasure than to render homage to virtue, especially
in its loveliest form — the devotion of a generous woman's heart.

And when," he demanded, " will the arrest take place ? "

To-morrow," replied the countess.

Know they where he is ? "

Doubt not that the bloodhounds, who live by tracking out the
victims of offended power, have long ere this been on his track.
With the first dawn of day," she added, " they will be here."

Let them come ! " said the poet, with a melancholy smile ; " he
will be prepared to meet them ! "

What mean you ? " demanded Mary, in a voice of agony, not
unmingled with surprise. " Meet them ? " she added, repeating
his words ; " know you what follows ? Prison — the mockery of
trial — the yelling of the furious mob — the shame, the horror of
the scaffold — death ! "

Lady ! " exclaimed Milton, and his fading eyes flashed with a
brilliancy which proved how deeply the sentiment he was about
to utter was engraved upon his soul ; " it is the crime, and not the
scaffold, which brands the victim's name ! Wilton upon a gibbet
would show more noble than his judge upon a throne ! There are
names," he added, " which tyranny cannot dishonour — virtues,
which crushed, yield, like the bruised flower, a sweeter odour."

Alas, for mercy ! "

Hear me ! " interrupted her host ; " deem me not insensible to
the safety of our mutual friend. If I appear indifferent to the
danger, it is that he is already summoned to appear before a
tribunal more terrible than Charles's — a tribunal before which
kings are as worms, and crowns as worthless things — the Judgment-seat
of God ! "

Dead ? " exclaimed Mary, half-sinking to the earth at the
intelligence.

Not yet," said Milton ; " but the last struggle is at hand. The
Master of Wilton hath not an hour to live ! "

Oh, lead me to him ! " she exclaimed ; " the companion of my
childhood — my girlhood's friend — protector — must not die alone,
without one kind voice to bid God speed him on his way ! "

True friends are with him ! " gravely observed the poet.

Granted ! " said Mary ; " but not a friend like me ! He loved
me, Milton ! I was his boyhood's dream — his manhood's hope !
yet he resigned me — nobly resigned me, for Herbert's happiness
and mine ! Think you," she added, with the instinctive perception
of a woman's heart, " that at such an hour he would not
sooner hear my voice than theirs, yield his last sigh upon a sister's
breast, than on the pillow smoothed by friendship's hand ? "

And thy husband, lady ? "

I should blush to call him such, did he feel otherwise than
I do ! "

Oh, woman, woman ! " exclaimed the Puritan, " were the stars
veiled, creation silent, and tradition dumb, man would have still
a proof: of Heaven in thee! Come," he added, "and with an
angel's presence cheer the last pangs of weak expiring nature !
Come, with thy woman's heart and sister's love, and bid thy
dying brother 'part in peace ! Come, with the halo of thy virtues
round thee, and pay thy debt to friendship and to truth ! "

With these words the speaker took the countess by the hand,
and led her to a chamber in a distant part of the mansion, in which
the Master of Wilton, surrounded by his friends, lay expecting his
last hour. The hand of death already was upon him ; he had
ceased to pray, for he was not one of those who leave the task of
reconciling themselves to Heaven to the final moment. Like a
soldier who had fought the good fight, he lay stretched upon his
couch, calmly awaiting the judgment and the reward.

Those who were gathered round were the sternest of the leaders
of the Independents, men who had scorned to fly and leave their
brother in the faith in danger ; each one, with his sword and Bible
on his knees, was seated near the bed, ready alike to pray or die,
as the cause to which they were devoted might require. There
was a slight movement of surprise when Milton entered the room,
leading in his hand the glittering apparition of the countess, whose
jewelled robes contrasted strangely with the sombre costume of
the Puritans and the ghastly appearance of the chamber of death.
Still such was the respect in which their host was held, that not
one ventured to require an explanation of so extraordinary an
intrusion ; but, on a sign from Milton, one by one slowly left the
apartment. As soon as they were alone, her conductor led Mary
to the bedside of the dying man, whose eyes were already closed.

Wilton — friend," whispered the poet.

Still in this world of pain, of strife, and sacrifice ? " murmured
Wilton ; " I thought the struggle past, and all was peace ! "

Brother — friend ! " sobbed Mary.

At the sound of her voice, the dying Puritan bounded from his
pillow as though an electric shock had struck him. His eyes
opened, and violent agitation shook his frame, so near to death ;
the magic of the voice which he had heard so often and loved in
childhood could alone recall him from the world of shadows, on
whose limits his soul still lingered.

Mary ! " he exclaimed, "am I awake, or do I dream ? Often
on the battle-field, by the. watch-fire's lurid light, have I hoped
thy voice would lead me past in peace, or be the first to welcome
me in the world to come ! What brings thee here ? " he added,
wildly ; " danger ! there must be danger ! and I, like a wounded

hounds incapable to aid thee ! Stay ! — I have some strength left I
my sword — my sword ! — I, at least, can die defending her ! ,T

Where ? " said the countess, touched by his devotion, and
bursting into tears — " where should the sister be but by her dying
brother's side ? Calm thee, Wilton, there is no danger threatens
me ; would thy day were safe as mine ! "

"What! " he exclaimed, gazing on her with an expression of
affection which for a moment chased the traces of approaching
death ; " and hast thou left the brilliant sphere of which thou art
the gem, to visit the dying Wilton in his loneliness ? Thanks, oh,
thanks ! This act repays me for many a bitter hour of suffering
past ; it proves the sacrifice I made of my young heart has not
been all in vain— that Herbert has not all thy love ; but that thy
childhood's friend, thy early worshipper "

Has," interrupted Mary, " ever held his place within my heart;
and ever must while gratitude and memory remain. My heart,"
she added, gravely, "has room alike for love and friendship ! "

Friendship ! " murmured the dying man, his exultation
gradually yielding to the sober words which reminded him that
the object of his passion was another's. " True — friendship is all
thy heart retains for Wilton ! "

And love ! "

Love ? "

As sisters love ! free from passion, Wilton ! free from the
earthly fire which stains poor fallen humanity — love such as
angels feel, nor blush to own ! love which will greet thee in a
world of bliss, without one thought of earth, or sad regret to mar
its brightness ! Art thou not content ? "

Content ? I am most happy ! "

The effort was too much for him — the feverish excitement was
over, and the head of the dying man fell upon the shoulder of the
countess. His hand grasped hers. There was a blush upon her
cheek as she supported the generous friend of her early years in
her arms.

Had her husband at that moment entered the chamber, she
would not have wished him absent — the purity of her soul
supported her.

"Art thou happy, Wilton ? " she demanded.

Happy ? " he repeated ; " bliss — bliss ! I hear thy voice again
yield my last sigh in thy arms ! See once more the groves of
Keinton, in which we wandered in childhood's happy hours, ere
a shade had passed between our hearts ! Listen to the murmuring
of the stream by which we both have sat — the rustling of the
leaves ! Kiss me," he added, " Mary, when I am dead — Avhen I
am dead ! and be that kiss the recompense of a life of sacrifice —
the earnest of my future bliss ! "

Mary leant forward, and was about to imprint her lips upon

VOL. III. D D

brow of the expiring man. Although at the last gasp, he gently
turned aside, and whispered :

Not now, Mary wait till I am dead — wait till — I — I — "

The next moment the kiss was given, and Mary sank as senseless
into the arms of Milton as the unconscious clay which received it.

A few hours later, when the officers of Charles arrived to arrest
the Master of Wilton, they found only his corpse, and the immortal
poet praying by its side.

It was long before a smile again visited the cheek of Mary. She
mourned the dead with a sister's grief, mingled with a yet more
tender sentiment ; for with a heart like hers it was impossible not
to appreciate the devotion of a heart so manly and so generous as
Wilton's. Far from feeling offended at her sorrow, Herbert shared
it, proving by his grief that he was not unworthy of the choice of
a woman like the heiress of Keinton, and the friendship of a manlike
the noble but unhappy Master of Wilton.

About a fortnight after the event we have attempted to describe,
an order was moved in council for the exhumation of the bodies
of Cromwell, Bradshaw, and others of the regicides, that they
should be dragged on hurdles to Tyburn, there hanged upon the
gibbet for the space of an hour, their bodies afterwards to be burnt
to ashes, and those ashes scattered to the winds of heaven. To
this useless vengeance, more degrading to those who inflicted than
to the senseless remains which were submitted to the outrage, the
Earl of Clarendon and Herbert were the only members opposed.

Despite the eloquence with which their objections were urged,
the revengeful spirit of the king and his brother James, neither
of whom had learnt in adversity that necessary lesson of princes,
to forgive, prevailed. The order was issued, and on the following
morning the august temple of the dead violated ! Pygmies who,
while he lived, had crouched before the very name of Cromwell,
hesitated not to profane, as they supposed, his corpse when dead !
to flatter a prince, whom they secretly despised, by outraging the
giant whom they no longer feared, but the majesty of whose
name, had they possessed one sentiment worthy of humanity,
should have protected his ashes from insult.

Herbert was on his road to St. James's to make a last effort, for
the disgusting procession was already about to start. In his way
he encountered crowds of Independents,who passed him, with visage
high, and with a mocking air which he was puzzled to understand,
but which seemed to say : " Your paltry vengeance will be
defeated ! " In the Park the crowd was less numerous, but more
boisterous. A party of soldiers were dragging a white-haired man
towards Rosamond's pond, evidently with the intention of
drowning him, while the mob looked on and yelled with savage
delight.

"What means this outrage ? " exclaimed the earl, drawing his
sword, and making his way between the soldiers and the water ;
what would ye do ? "

It is one of Cromwell's valets ! " cried a voice in the mob.

And is that a reason you should murder him ? " demanded
Herbert.

He is a traitor ! "

Down with the regicide ! "

At the command of the earl, whose person w T as well known, the
soldiers released their victim, and directed their weapons towards
the mob, who, impatient at being disappointed of their prey, would
have laid hands upon the aged valet, who was already half-dead
with terror, and completed the work of cruelty.

Let them kill me ! " muttered the old man. " I am faithful ;
they shall not wring the secret from me. I can die, but not betray
my master ! "

What does he say ? " demanded Herbert.

The old fool boasted," replied the corporal who commanded
the party, " that, despite the edict of the king, the bones of the
arch-traitor Cromwell should rest in peace ; nay, had the infamy
to add, that the remains of the martyred king were more likely to
be exposed upon the gibbet than the Protector's ! "

A sudden light broke upon Herbert — the triumphant air of the
Independents was explained ; without being assured of the truth,
he already divined it.

Follow me to the palace ! " he exclaimed, " and bring your
prisoner with you."

"They may rack me — tear me piecemeal ! " murmured the old
man ; " but they shall hear nothing — nothing ! "

Charles, his brother James, Clarendon, Buckingham, and most of
the members of the Privy Council, were already assembled, when
Herbert entered the royal closet.

Now, my lord ! " demanded the king coldly, for the earl's
opposition to the exhumation of the bones of the regicides had
offended him ; " you seem flushed ! "

"Sire, let me entreat you to suspend, if not alter, your
determination of yesterday ! "

What ? " said the king, flushed with anger ; " again these
solicitations, after our positive command ? My lord, you presume
too far upon your services and our favour ! "

Perhaps," said the Duke of York, "his lordship's sympathies
are too deeply wounded by the justice of your Majesty to permit
him to hold his peace ? "

Not my sympathies, your highness, but my duty ? "

Duty ? " repeated the king, haughtily.

Sire, I must speak, even at the hazard of losing your Royal
favour ! This outrage on the dead — this mockery of an execution
VOL. III. D D 2

this insult to the memory of a man who, with all his crimes
and evil passions, was for years the representative of England's
greatness ! "

Well ! "

Are yon sure that it will fall where it was designed ? What
if, foreseeing the littleness of his foes, the friends of the late
Protector should have substituted for the corpse of Cromwell that
of ? "

Whom ? " demanded Charles, pale with apprehension.

Sir, I fear to name ! "

Cranfield ! " exclaimed the monarch, agitated with a nameless
terror : for even to himself he dared not picture what he feared.
"There is a fearful import in your words, for you are not of those
who breathe them lightly, and I am but a fool when I listen to my
own passions ! On your allegiance, speak ! and, though your
words pierce my soul, cover my front with shame and ashes, speak
freely ! "

In a few words Herbert related the scene he had witnessed in
the Park, the triumphant air of the Independents he had
encountered in his way, and the words which the old valet of
Cromwell had let fall. During the relation, the countenances both
of Charles and James became deadly pale.

Fly ! " exclaimed the latter, drawing from his finger the royal
signet, and placing it in the hands of Herbert : " fly ! and with
the speed of loyalty and devotion, stop the horrid outrage — the
sacrilege I fear to name ! "

Five" minutes afterwards, and the Earl of Cranfield was on horseback,
dashing like a madman along the streets, to stop the
execution.

Meanwhile the aged valet was brought in a prisoner before
the council, where, despite his resolution, the torture soon wrung
from him the confession, that the body of the late Protector
had been secretly removed from the coffin, and that of the late king
substituted in its place.

A deep groan from the members of the council followed the
confession.

And who," demanded Charles, " presided at the sacrilege ? "

^ Richard his son."

"' He is beyond my reach. Who else ? '•' .

Milton, the Latin secretary of the Parliament ! "

Orders were instantly issued for the apprehension of the poet,
who, in less than an hour, stood a prisoner before the Privy
Council.

All present were struck with the calm dignity of Milton, who
stood in the presence of the king and his judges without being
in the least dismayed. The king himself was the first to question
him.

"You were with the late usurper the night he died ?"

I was with his highness the late Protector," replied Milton,
firmly.

What were the directions you received ? "

Foreseeing the outrage which an ignoble vengeance, in the
event of a restoration, might offer to his remains, he commanded
that the body of the late king should be disinterred from its tomb
at Windsor, and deposited in the place of his.''*

Monster ! " cried James, pale with rage ; " and you ? "

Performed alike my duty to the living and the dead."

Before the council could come to a decision, Herbert, who had
hastened, as Ave have already seen, with the speed of desperation
to Tyburn, entered the council chamber ; every eye was fixed
upon him.

Speak ! " exclaimed Charles, " and ease my soul at once —
suspense is worse than certainty ! Must I for the future bear
the brand of sacrilege on my dishonoured brow ? Have I
indeed, in mv insane vengeance, profaned the ashes of mv unhappy
father ? "

Sire," said Herbert, calmly, "at your command I mounted my
steed and made my way through the thronging multitude to
Tyburn — a living sea, with waves of human passion ; defiance
flashed from the eyes of the fierce Independents as I passed —
curiosity from the countless mob ! "

Well ? "

"I reached the place of execution — the bodies of Bradshaw and
several of the judges were already suspended to the infamous
gibbet. As I broke through the circle of soldiery, the hangman's
hands elevated a corpse swathed in robes of purple
velvet."

Charles and his brother James bowed their heads in shame.

I was horror-stricken — my tongue clave to the roof of my
mouth. Ere I could speak the mort-cloth fell from the visage of
the corpse, and, to mv astonishment, I recognised the features
of "

"Whom ?" groaned the king.

Barford — the enemy of me and mine ! "

"And who was this Barford ? " demanded the Earl of Clarendon,
addressing himself to Milton.

"A wretch who, for a villain's triumph, performed an ignoble
office," replied the poet. " I told you that I had performed my
duty alike to the living and the dead. Barford was the enemy of
those I loved; more — he was the masked executioner of Charles
the First ! "

"And the body of the Protector ? " demanded James.

"Let it rest in peace!" interrupted the king; "the lesson I
have received teaches me that human justice should not 1)"

pursued beyond the grave. Man." he added, "turning to Milton*
whom I admire, but cannot love — keep thy fatal secret — honour
forbids that I should force it from thee. Live, and while Charles
the Second reigns, live in safety and in peace ! "

Happy would it have been for his subjects if this fit of pious
horror had lasted. Happier still for many a victim of the secret
Star Chamber, an institution the brutal, heartless tyranny of
which could be equalled only by the Council of Ten in Venice,
the Holy Inquisition in Spain, or the lettre-de-cachet system of
the Grand Monarque, whom our unscrupulous Charles II. rivalled,
and that successfully, in the most gross licentiousness — the
Merry Monarch " making merry at the expense of the liberties
and pockets of the English people.

To the student of history who believes that the work of those
who have endeavoured to trace " God in history " has not been in
vain, the series of events culminating in the abdication of James II.
must seem specially Providential, in that this circumstance
enabled the nation, on the accession of the Stadtholder, William of
Holland, to partially recover some of its lost liberties, and in
some degree to neutralise the evils wrought in this country by the
Stuart dynasty, beginning with James I., carried on by Charles I.
and Charles II., and only partially got rid of with the disappearance
of James II. from our national life.

THE END.
