'■%

-^< XJ,

Ju^^

7' ^-ir ^

-^^ ^t^

5■>^^4•-:

m

*Wir^":;y^^;■ •sc;:-^^^;\?■

^i;i.:^;^;■

m.

m

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/ladystellaherlov01soll

KELLY AND CO., GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, W.C.

AND MIDDLE MILL, KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.

AND HER LOVER.

HENRY SOLLY,

AUTHOR OF "CHARLES Darrell,'

*' ,. Ah, for some retreat
Deep in yonder shining Orient, where my life began to beat.

Or to burst all links of habit — there to wander far away,
On from island unto island, at the gateways of the day.
Larger constellations burning, mellow moons, and happy skies.
Breadths of tropic shade and palms in cluster, knots of Paradise.
Never comes the trader, never floats a European flag,
Slides the bird o'er lustrous woodland, swings the trailer from the crag :
Droops the heavy-blossomed bower, hangs the heavy-fruited tree —
Summer isles of Eden lying in dark-purple spheres of sea."

TENNYSON. Locksley Hall.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

WARD & DOWNEY,
12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN

1888.
[All Rights Reserved

CHARLES Darrell ; or, the Worship of Joy.

Crown 8vo. Price 3s.

The state of Oriel at the time, the influences which siuTOunded alike
the undergraduates and the Fellows, the new leaven working in the old
forms, the aspirations for freedom, purity, true beauty, and self-sacrifice
for the sake of others, the high ideal of a manly, noble life . . . are
exceedingly truthfully and vigorously portrayed." — The Guardian.

'• Oxford life set before us in a very lifelike way. . The scene
of this representation — 'The Bacchanals' — is described with much
graphic force." — Spectator.

"This volume, though in the form of a fiction, embodies a vast deal of
experience and thought." — British Quarterly Review.

"This, to us, deeply interesting and suggestive volume Its

teachings are pure and beautiful." — Christian World.

"This is a good story . . full of thought and experience.
Mr. Solly skilfully keeps up the interest. . Its lofty aim is never
forgotten." — Nonconformist.

"An eloquent exposition of what the author conceives to be the true
spirit of Bacchus. . . . As a picture, too. of Oxford life some sixty
years ago, it is well worth reading." — Pall Mall Gazette.

The conception is good. . . . The ideas of unbounded energy and
spontaneous joy in living." — Oxford Magazine.

In many respects Mr. Solly's hero is a fine character, quite uneducated,
but he sometimes does strange ihingii.'^ —Cambridge Review.

'• The novelty and boldness of his main idea in this remarkable tale
cannot fail to command attention." — Illustrated London News.

For his spirit of generous sympathy with all forms of faith which regard
active benevolence as a cardinal virtue, no encomium could be too
large.' — The Graphic.

THE SHEPHERD'S DREAM. Price Ss.

The poetical spirit and dramatic vigour of the Rev. Henry Solly's
Gonzaga,' published some time since, are more than equalled in his new
dramatic romance, to which he has given the title of ' The Shepherd's
Dream.' The scene of the play is laid in Suffolk and in London, in the
reigns of Edward YI. and Queen Mary, and the tender, fanciful love-story
which furnishes the element of romantic interest is skilfully interwoven
with tokens of the spirit of those troublous times. . . . The
character of the heroine. Lady Adela, whose natural playfulness of disposition
is allied with a strong will and deep earnestness, only requiring
meet occasion for their exercise, is sketched with remarkable subtlety in
Mr. Solly's beautiful semi-pastoral drama." — Daily News.

JAMES WOODFORD : CARPENTER & CHARTIST.

Two vols. Demy 8vo. Price os.

"This work is calculated to have a vast influence for good among
working men." — Illustrated Carpenter and Builder.

Y.I

LADY STELLA AND HER LOVER.



>^ CHAPTER I.

Yes — it was a brilliant ball which was given that

^ warm night in June, 187 — . At least everybody

k* said so. How could it be otherwise ? A Fancy-dress

S ball at the Countess of Glenalvon's in the height

^^ of the season ! — This revival of a somewhat ancient

but most charming festival was certainly a bright

idea.

<^ There were many guests present, thronging the

•I spacious rooms in varied and splendid costumes ;

J innumerable coloured lamps, Chinese lanterns, and

i brilliant sun-lights ; beautiful flowers and flowering

^^ shrubs in profusion, capital music, graceful dancing

with old-fashioned minuets and "Sir Roger de

^ Coverley " at intervals ; rivers of champagne and " all

^ the delicacies of the season." Charming little alcoves

> and conservatories naturally predestined for subdued

conversation and more or less serious flirtations ;

"^^ above all, lovely women and agreeable men. What

t;^ more could be desired by mortal man ?

There was one young mortal man among the
V^ VOL. I. 1

guests, however, in a Spenserian dress — which by-the-bye
was generally supposed to indicate Hamlet
as the wearer — who when he was young, as he
pensively remarked to an intimate friend, had
immensely enjoyed all aesthetic delights of a refined
description, but on this occasion was wandering
restlessly about, like one distraught. The said
friend, an old Oxford chum, encountering him with
mild surprise and pleasure, chaffed him on too
closely resembling the Prince of Denmark, for
"man delights you not, nor evidently, women
either, nor this brave overhanging firmament, fretted
with golden and Chinese fire. Yet, my dear fellow,"
continued his friend, " here is a fine opportunity
for indulging in that ' Worship of Joy ' — pardon, I
forgot your father was lately murdered by a usurping
King of Denmark. Well, well —

Life's a jest, and all things show it —
Most of all to a sucking poet,
You thought so once, and now you know it

And constancy lives in realms above,
And life is thorny and youth is vain.'

Farewell. You taught me apt quotations and
must take the consequences."

Sad to say the melancholy poet or prince refused
to be comforted, and responded not to his
friend's chaff, save by a compassionate glance. He
was ambitious, dreamy, highly-gifted, self-centred
(not self-indulgent), foolishly romantic, just twenty-four,
and passionately in love. There were probably

ninety and nine young men that night, extremely
like him, in Oxford, Cambridge, London, Boston,
U.S., and Berlin. But he was none the less to be
pitied for that reason — thought his friend (who
figured as one of Charles I.'s cavaliers) — and who,
though cynical, had much regard for poor Hamlet
in spite of himself. He was about to make one
more attempt to cheer him up before parting by
another appropriate, though not exactly novel,
quotation, when the prince or embryo poet whispered
suddenly :

I say, Ellerslie, who's that infernal fool aping
Francis I. standing up to waltz with — "

Don't know. Never had much acquaintance
with fools — except one — sotto voce). Tm*n your-thoughts
away, my friend. Listen to a writer who,.
certainly, was no fool:

The lamps shone o'er fair women and brave men,
A thousand hearts beat happily, . . .'

Then why not thine, poetic friend ? " — Xo answers

so he continued :

. . . . And when

Music arose with its voluptuous swell,

Soft eyes looked love to eyes that spake again,
And all went merry as a marriage-bell.'

"Depend upon it your marriage-bell will ring
some day, old fellow, and if you haven't picked a
quarrel with me by that time, I'll dance at your
wedding."

"I rather doubt it," replied the Melancholy One.
Thank you, however, all the same — for nothing.

1—2

Eyes soft or hard don't now-a-days look love to
any other eyes, as far as my experience goes."

"Your vision is slightly limited. There is more
than one pair of eyes here to-night, if I'm not
much mistaken, that would speak again if the
author of a certain new poem spake to them in
love fashion. But talking of hard and soft," added
the Oxford friend, seeing the poet look a little impatient,
" have you heard the last new riddle ? No ?
Well then, what is the difference between hard
water and soft ? My laundress in Lincoln's Inn
told me this morning in confidence, that she heard
her little boy say to his father last night — ^ Daddy,
I hear mother talk about hard and soft water;
what is hard water ? ' ' Xow don't you think, sir,'
she added, * he must be rather a clever child ? ' * But
what did your husband answer ? ' I inquired ; * Oh,
he said, " Ice, my boy." ' Then what is soft water ? '
said the child ; * Why, woman's tears,' says I — ' to be
sure.' *Ah, IVIrs. Privet,' I replied, * with such a
mother, your son ought to become a great man.' "

Oh, come ! " exclaimed Hamlet, with recovered
animation, " that's too good to be true ! But thanks
for inventing it. I am better already. Nevertheless,
the worship of Joy is not for this ' suh-luna-tic
spare, as I believe your laundress would call it. And
you awaken painful thoughts. Tears ! I have rarely
beheld woman's tears — hope I never shall again.
They do weep, I believe, however — but only when
men are unkind."

Oh yes ; I've been told they do occasionally when
they cannot get a new bonnet, or their own way, or
when deluded men don't propose."

Ah ! that betrays the weakness of their sex ; but
all the suppositions imply male cruelty."

"Not much of that weakness, I suspect," replied
Ellerslie, " in a certain lady of your and my
acquaintance. I see she's here to-night. Great
power of resistance in her, eh ? Sturdy and self-willed,
though elegant."

Don't be profane."

Forgive me ; I am only compassionate, and grieve
to see so good a fellow "

But the mournful poet moved disdainfully away.

Two stalwart young fellows, in " Hotspur " and
Prince Hal " attire, one of them with a well-bronzed
face and military bearing, the other with a very
mediaeval eye-glass in his eye, next sauntered by.

"So this is a Fancy ball. Only fancy," remarked
the military individual, in the fashionable flippant
style. " But, I say, Lynnecourt, who is that handsome
girl in a Hungarian costume, with a diamond
star on her forehead ? I'm new just now to England,
you know, but I met her the other night in a crowd
at the French ambassador's, and, by Jove, I found
she haunted me."

Oh ! that's Lady Stella Faulconhurst, but tonight
known only as the Princess Silver Star — Transylvanian
fairy princess, I suppose. Handsome — yes,
I believe you, and fine figure. Good-looking fellow

waltzing with her. They call him Francis I., whoever
that may be. Young Lord Edendale, in the
Foreign Office, you know. Queer fish ! Did you
hear of his doings at the * Devonshire ' the night
before last ? Magnificent dress ! But you seem
absorbed ! "

I am, in wondering now who that wiry, sallow-faced
young fellow, dark hair, can be — got up as
Hamlet, isn't he ? Look, he's watching that couple
waltzing, like an Italian innamorato or the bravo
he's just hired. Eyes like a cat-o'-mountain's."

Oh, yes ! That's young Dayrell, late of Oriel —
grandson of old Charlie Dayrell. Did you ever hear
of that eccentric genius ? "

I should think so. Had him pointed out to me
when I was in Some five years ago. He was quite the
old man then, but a fine, plucky old dog. They say
he rode to hounds till he was nearly eighty."

That's the man. Your Italian bravo has a deuce
of a lot of the warm Dayrell blood in him, but none
of their sunny sparkle. I never can make him out,
and don't want to. Mother was younger daughter

of the Duke of ; dropped the courtesy title when

she married because her husband hadn't got one."

What bosh I "

*her son inherits eccentricity from all sides. He
was desperately unsociable at Oxford, except with a
very small clique. Never touches a card, I believe.
Smiles sarcastic ' if you talk of women or suggest
a lark."

"Ah, I can believe it. He looks a deal too good
for my taste. Sulky and misanthrope, eh ? Hasn't
got the Dayrell physique either."

No ; but he's a regular devil at polo and in the
pink. But here comes the Star-Princess and her
enamoured swain."

The speakers formed a part of the crowd of young
men who sauntered and buzzed about in the gilded
*' salons " of the West End that season. They were
"eldest sons," one of a celebrated sporting baronet,
the other of an eminent Conservative peer, but were
not otherwise particularly distinguished. They had
been at Eton together, and a similarity of tastes made
them associates in amusements, folly and mischief —
not friends. The heir to the country baronet was in
the Guards, had been in some African campaign,
came home invalided, and since then had been on
the Continent, rehabilitating. He had lately returned
to London in time for the usual round of " society "
doings in May and June.

When the dancers had passed, and the young officer
had given a long lingering gaze at the Princess's
retreating form, he softly ejaculated :

'' I say, that girl's one to give a fellow the heartache.
Whose daughter is she ? " and he began
moving away to the refreshment quarter.

The late Earl of Cheveron had the honour of
being her sire. But he departed this life years ago,
and her mother afterwards married Sir Michael
Godhead, M.F.H., of Hurstleigh Manor, when this

damsel was a mere chit. Her mother died before the
girl was out of the nursery, and as she has neither
brother or sister, she'll inherit both properties."

Cricket ! what a catch ! "

"So-so. They are both heavily encumbered. I've
inquired, and don't believe she'll have a clear six or
seven thousand a year."

The young men by this time had gained the supper-room,
and saw the lady and her partner engaged in
lively conversation by the side-board. A bright young
maiden, "Queen Mab," just then came up with her
partner to Lady Stella.

"Who is that pretty girl?" asked the officer.

That's a cousin, I believe, of Lady Stella, who
lives chiefly at Hurstleigh Manor. Eather captivating,
eh ? But, I say, don't stare at * that bright
particular diamond star ' quite so hard, or her lover
will, &c."

Not much return in store for him," replied the
officer, "judging by the keen, pitiless look in the
lady's great eyes. Cold, cold as Artemis — and as
cruel."

Cruel, if you like ; but cold, no. If you had

heard her singing the other night at Lady B 's,

you'd have said there was fire enough in her to thaw
the Caucasus, or a dozen London dandies."

The Lady Stella, arm-in-arm with her partner,
now passed on, her shapely head, covered with its
auburn locks, a little thrown back, the star fixed
above her broad white forehead flashing hither and

thither brightly enough, yet scarcely more so than
the pair of eyes beneath, while, though the nose
from its Grecian form was unable to turn up in
scorn at all the folly of the world, the beautiful
short upper lip was equal to expressing any amount
of that sentiment, all the more so from frequent
practice. Her fortunate (or unfortunate) partner so
contemptuously alluded to by the heir to the Conservative
nobleman, was a lively and energetic
specimen of the English aristocracy. Like a few
more of his companions, he divided his time this
particular season between ardent attentions to the
young lady with whom he had just been waltzing,
discussions and speculations concerning Ascot,
or Goodwood, and the refreshment buffet at the
Criterion, the Pavilion, or at any fashionable mansion
wherein he might be " chasing the laughing
hours with flying feet." Yet in some respects he
was superior to many of his confreres. Tall and
handsome, lively yet sentimental, he wrote beautiful
verses, and even went occasionally to church —
frequently, in fact, when his mother or sisters
asked his arm to conduct them to a very fashionable
ritualistic place of worship in their neighbourhood.
Quite recently he had fallen desperately
in love with the Lady Stella Faulconhurst, who
occasionally attended there, and wooed her withall
the ardour and qua si-chivalry of his nature.
And, no doubt, there had once been the making of
a fine character in him, but neither the moral or

intellectual element appeared to have been cultivated.
He had rattled through youth at Harrow,
and early manhood at Cambridge, without learning
much at either, except to love poetry, art, and
cricket on the aesthetic and '' play-impulse " department
of his nature, and that he must take care
of " Number One " as regarded the serious side of
life. Hence, when he was attracted by the peerless
maiden with the auburn hair and pitiless eyes,
who was somewhat painfully aware that she attracted
men's admiration wherever she went, his
love was rather of the superficial and selfish order,
though he fully himself believed he was a model
of a knightly lover and something of a poet.
There was no depth, no real manliness, no true
chivalry, in either his poetry or his love. But the
Lady Stella, when a young girl making her first
appearance in society, had been fascinated by his
good looks, winning manners, and reputation as
one of the most rising young men of the day."
^Vhen he first asked her to dance, she trembled
with pleasure. His poems were laid under her
pillow, and she furtively read every notice of his
writings, or his doings, of which she could obtain
possession.

Fortunately for her, the object of her secret
admiration was altogether ignorant of it, and was
at that time himself in love with a popular
actress. So Lady Stella, having heard a little
about his views of women generally, and seen

through the superficial varnish of his character,
recovered from her delusion before he, in his
turn, awoke to the perception of her growing
beauty, and queenly intellectual graces. Thus it
fell out that when at length he sought her among
the crowd of elegant and charming girls at balls
or garden-parties, plaintively pleaded for a third or
fourth dance, whispered sweet nonsense in her ear,
and sent her brilliant or pathetic rhymes, she
described him as " whipped cream " — a sobriquet
that stuck to him for two seasons — began to despise
herself for the fleeting fancy of her girlish unsophisticated
days, and disliked him heartily for
having made such a fool of her. At first, no
doubt, she had struggled angrily and unsuccessfully
against what she regarded as a mere degrading
glamour but this season she met him with
a complacent smile (" very like that," as EUerslie
suggested, " on the face of the amiable animal
with whom a * young lady of Erga' ventured to take
a ride, returning in a sheltered compartments*)
and a triumphant consciousness of freedom in her
heart. So the young lordling found the Fancy-ball
that night unsatisfactory, felt he had better raise

" There was a young lady of Riga,
Who went for a ride on a tiger,

They came back from their ride —
The lady inside,
And a smile on the face of the tiger."

The wittiest product, as some think, of the Nineteenth century —
with apologies to Mr. Lear.

the siege for the present and renew it on a more
propitious occasion — which perhaps never came.

In the meantime Lady Stella, as her cousin
gravely remarked to herself on returning one
Sunday from church, was "as a bird escaped out
of the snare of the fowler."

Yet, when her early idol-worship was shattered
in the dust, there was nothing of a nobler cult
to take its place. She was considered by her
family and her one or two intimate friends to
be sadly devoid alike of religious feelings and
belief; and as she disliked going to church or
reading devotional books, and gave a wide berth
to all clergymen and the meetings and societies
with which they were connected, she also began
to consider herself "a hopeless infidel." With her
usual spirit of independence — not to say, defiance
she rejoiced in assuming a hostile attitude towards
what she could not heartily embrace, from
which, in fact, she often shrank with mingled fear
and aversion, lest it might enslave her soul and
bind her again in what she thought would be only
another form of the cringing human idolatry from
which she had so recently escaped.

The fact is she had been brought up since her
mother's death under the fostering care of an
exemplary high-class governess, of strictly evangelical
principles and lady-like deportment, whom,
as her pupil advanced from the nursery to the
school-room, Stella regarded with increasing disapproval.

Indeed it is to be feared that this precocious
young lady, when scarcely in her teens,
looked on the exemplary governess not only with
antipathy but even with amusement and contempt.
For unfortunately she perceived, and doubtless
(with the impertinence of ill-regulated youth) exaggerated,
the various little selfish weaknesses and
unamiable infirmities of temper which, from the
want of Christian charity and consideration for
others, to say nothing of generosity, unhappily
marked that lady's character. Hence it is not surprising
that on her sixteenth birthday Stella persuaded
her affectionate step-father to give the
stately governess her cone, and to invite his
widowed sister, Mrs. Grey, with her daughter
Frances, to come and reside a considerable part of
each year at the Manor-house.

Under this arrangement, however, it was stipulated
that the Lady Stella, (cunning little puss,)
should be absolute mistress of the household, under
her father's suzerainty, and that her aunt and
cousin were simply there as guests. Thus becoming
practically her own mistress, at too early an
age, this wild, proud, and headstrong girl had a
pernicious liberty of development which, but for
the restraint put upon it by a naturally noble and
high-minded disposition, might have had, some
would say did have, highly disastrous results.

For among her other vagaries was the style in
which she insisted on pursuing her own education.

especially in the theological line. That education
was certainly very fitful and diversified in its
character. She read a vast variety of books indiscriminately,
and voraciously studied eagerly and
successively, for a few months at a time, under
able day - governesses and tutors, mathematics,
history, astronomy, mental philosophy, even political
economy, and whatever in addition they, recommended.
But naturally, alas, she soon wearied of
them all, except history, which with poetry,
biography, and polemical theology of a destructive
character, alone seemed to retain for her any
permanent interest.

About the time now referred to, when in her
twentieth year. Lady Stella's interest was deeply
engrossed (except just during the London season)
by eager researches into all the newest revelations
of modern theological criticism. Scientific exposures
of the historical and mythical absurdities, errors,
and fallacies of the Bible, of the impossibility of
miracles, of the endless contradictions, inconsistencies,
and futilities of Christianity, demonstrations
even of the groundlessness of a belief in a
personal God, knowable at least by human intellect,
of Agnosticism, in short, in any form, were
especially sweet to her soul. She smiled contemptuously
on all the dreams and " unreal
imaginings " of the poets and seers concerning
what is called " Revealed religion " — was quite
sure she recognized in herself none of those deep

spiritual wants paraded by goody-goody folks, and
which she regarded as mere weak superstitions.
But the ancient myths and legends of India, and
especially of Grreece, she still delighted in. She
could revel in them without fear of being superstitious
; besides, they helped to show the absurdity
of the prevalent Christian myths.

What a very disagreeable sort of person I " some
excellent people will say. Nay ; not so. Stella Fault
was one of those characters who attract us, in
spite of ourselves, and as powerfully as they repel.
Hence, she kept all, who knew her intimately, in a
state of alternate delight and distress, of love and
aversion, or even indignation. Those who could appreciate
the higher elements of her character, knew that
she was full of the noblest aspirations, of generous and
unselfish impulses, capable of the most devoted self-sacrifice
and love. Wildly romantic, enthusiastic,
imaginative, the over-mastering passion of her heart
seemed to be for freedom, independence, power, withall
other conditions requisite for possessing and rejoicing
in things beautiful and true. She thirsted for
knowledge as the hunted hart for the water-brooks —
would have welcomed with delight (as she believed) all
hardships and perils, which might beset her in a daring
quest of truth and beauty ; almost any adventures, in
fact, from which most of her sex would shrink in fear.
But as for humble, humdrum goodness, piety, domestic
affection, and offices of ministering toil, what concern
had she with mouldy rubbish of this kind ? Of

social evils she was either entirely ignorant, or scarcely
recognized their existence ; for her whole temperament
and nature resolutely resisted, ignored, or trampled on
the faintest suggestions of the baseness and corruption
that were in the world. As for piety, we have seen
the subject was for her altogether out of the range of
reality. And domestic life, with its affections and
conventionalities, bonds and drudgery, was nearly as
repugnant to her " being's end and aim," as the
cage to the freed skylark, singing and soaring in
the blue depths of heaven.

Yet this scornful sceptical maiden had been known
more than once to go secretly to nurse a poor sick
woman in the village through a long weary night,
or to keep a lot of little dirty children amused for
an hour together by a poor cottage fire, that they
might not disturb some sufferer in the room above,
stifling, in her ardent desire to help, all her natural
disgust at such surroundings, and any fears or warnings
about the danger of infection. Xo doubt she
heartily despised herself for yielding to such impulses
when the excitement of native benevolence
had passed away ; yet she was just as ready to do
the same, or greater, services for any one lying
wounded by the wayside of life, on some other occasion
; though fitfully, it must be admitted, and with
caprice. But woe to the blundering booby of either sex,
particularly if it were an innocent and Pharisaic young
curate, who might, unluckily, discover the lady's weakness,
and presume to compliment her on her behaviour.

Poor child ! The mother who, in the language of
an ancient Hebrew enthusiast, might have "guided
her feet into the way of peace," was too soon taken
away. Her step-father was dotingly fond of her —
when he saw her; but his fatherly attentions were
rather intermittent, and were seldom exhibited during
six months of the year, except for half-an-hour at
breakfast and dinner, or again when she awoke him
from his evening nap to hand him a cup of tea.

During the hunting season, however, when old
enough to be lifted on to a Shetland pony, and be
led by a groom to a neighbouring "meet," Stella
came in for a considerable increase of those attentions
which appeared to wax and wane according to
her riding capacities and her interest in fox-hunting
generally. That interest, in her early years, was
prodigious ; so that, between Sir Michael and herself
(though, as she thought, he was sometimes very obstinate
and troublesome) there was a great deal of
warm regard and sympathy. The M. F. H. was
proud of his clever, distinguish daughter, who, when in
her teens, could ride nearly as straight across the
country, if she chose, as he could himself. He frequently
brought her little presents, devised amusements
for her, and let her have her own way, for
the most part in everything, which was to her
thinking, best of all. " Only now and then," as he
once expressed it confidentially to an old friend, "I
pull her up sharp on the curb, you see, just to keep
up discipline."

TOL. I. 2

Of course, when those daring researches of the
young lady into the mysterious theological speculations
just mentioned gradually became known in
the family circle, her conduct was as perplexing to
the good Sir Michael as it was alarming to her
hunt and cousin. In the eyes of these ladies it so
closely resembled the proceedings of their common
grandmother Eve, that fatal consequences of some
description must be expected to ensue. A sharp
peremptory interdict was at length obtained by Mrs.
Grey from her brother, which, however, was met
by the daughter of Eve with such unexpected resistance,
and caused such unpleasant results to both the
high contracting parties," that ere very long it
-was allowed to fall into abeyance, and the wilful
girl continued her explorations among the " 
" trees. When, in the course of the
lively discussions which took place during the first
outbreak of this civil war, Stella was confronted
with the narrative in the book of Genesis, and
solemnly warned as to the sad consequences which
had once resulted from plucking the fruit of the
tree of knowledge, it seems she replied with a hardihood
and acuteness astounding to her distressed
relatives that it is only by knowing good and evil
that we can learn to embrace the one and eschew
the other. The young lady was dancing " a sword-dance,"
and the naked blades were rather risky.

Happily her burly jovial step-father was a man of
the finer type of old English country gentlemen,

and beneath all his boisterous freedom and sporting
hilarity there was a ground-work of high principle
with a definite standard of honour and moral worth,
limited, but very genuine, and often, (though not invariably,)
found in the fox-hunting, game-preserving
squires of a past generation. Then, again, her aunt's
character, manners, and views of moral philosophy,
though like her brothers rather limited, were essentially
lady-like, motherly, gentle, and refined. Lady
Stella from infancy felt the shaping force and benefit
of influences such as these, and in addition, inherited
a sense of her high family traditions, with a profound
consciousness of the truth that noblesse oblige.

9 9

Those fortunate persons who may have attentively
perused the imperfect record given some years
ago of the pure Bacchantic life of a certain Oxford
student named Charles Dayrell, will possibly remember
that nearly at the close of that record
there is a quotation from a letter written by an
old friend of his, a Mr. Rivers, to one of his grandsons,
then at Eton. The hint contained in that letter,
explanatory of the peaceful and even cheerful submission
with which the once impetuous, daring,
worshipper of Dionysus accepted the increasing
privations of helpless age, may possibly be interesting
to aged pilgrims, but why the writer of the said
letter called the young Etonian " a fine lad," anyone
might have been puzzled to explain. The boy
was slightly built, not tall for his age, cut no
great figure in the cricket-ground, and in fact, but
for his face and head, would have been called .
Certainly he had a fine countenance
and a rather remarkable mass of brain
behind it, so that the really fine, tall lads who
carried all before them at cricket and football
were rather disgusted at finding themselves constantly
inferior to Wilfrid Dayrell in the class-room,

and there, figuratively, sitting at his feet. But
the writer of the letter above referred to had probably
noted the lad's enthusiastic love and reverence
for his grandfather, as well as his rather extraordinary
intellectual powers, and was judging him
by a higher than a muscular standard. When the
boy began to realize his inferiority in all athletic
prowess to his ancestor he was mortified just in
proportion to his admiration and love for the old
man, and for a time no intellectual triumphs seemed
any consolation. Yet there was one line in which
he could emulate him — he could ride — ride to
hounds and in steeple-chases, though long solitary
gallops over moor and mountain pleased him best.
He could ride the fastest, the fiercest, the most
vicious horses that were offered him. He refused
ever to be beaten — never rested till he had mastered
the most obstinate or dangerous brutes to be found,
whether at Eton, Oxford, or on his native countryside.
The vision of his grandfather's delight in
*' noble horsemanship " rose ever before him ; and
the thought that in this, at least, he might be
not an unworthy descendant of his great exemplar,
consoled him under many an ignominious failure in
other manly exercises.

As he grew up, however, and gained considerable
increase of bodily vigour, he went in for a few
athletic sports with resolute pluck, and specially
distinguished himself in the running and *' high
jump" competitions. But he did it all in honour

of the illustrious dead, not from love of the sports
themselves — never became popular with his companions
either at school or college, and evidently
had no desire to be so. Looking back in afterlife
on bygone years, he makes a curious confession.
In a queer kind of diary, kept under circumstances
to be hereafter explained, he says, " I believe that
in those days I was very unsociable, with savage
tendencies that often made me decidedly * nasty '
in my temper and conduct. I wonder now how I
made or kept any friends at all. Yet heaven knows
how I longed for love, not for applause, nor even
esteem, nor for the affection and regard of above
three or four of my own sex — not much even for
theirs. I liked talking and especially arguing with
them if they were clever, well-read men. But
behind all that I know there was a passionate
craving for love — woman's love. With men I often
felt cross and snappish — with women, never ; even
when they were vain and silly I was happy in
their company, felt drawn towards them whatever
their rank or want of outward attractions, unless
indeed they were unfeminine." No wonder if
women, therefore, were usually attracted to him.

' My child,' said Dr. Doddridge once to his little
daughter ; ' how is it that everybody loves you ? '

' I don't know, papa,' replied the little maid,
unless it is that I love everybody.'

*' Hard, arrogant, domineering women," he adds,
^* I hated as David hated the enemies of the Lord,

that is, with perfect hatred ; but, thank God, such
as these are rare. Yet a proud woruari, if otherwise
feminine and attractive, one regards with profound
interest, and perhaps admiration*'

One other passage from what some would calla
strange farrago of romantic enthusiasm, egotism,
and aspiration, a wild echo of his grandsire's
Dionysiac song, may perhaps be given here as throwing
a little light on the young Oxonian's subsequent
fate and fortunes. It seems to have been
written shortly after returning from his first Continental
trip.

Yes, the Worship of Joy, of wild and daring
adventure, the passionate desire to mingle and blend
with all the beauty and glory of the universe, how
it fills one's heart and brain ! And oh, how grandly
that desire is fed by wandering in the pine woods
and on the mountain tops, o'er the Brocken and the
Jungfrau, and on the shores and the waters of the
lakes of Switzerland, of Italy, by the blue waves of
Ocean in sunshine, by moonlight, and in the storm !
. . . There, indeed, one seems to mingle with
the Eternal Beauty, Grandeur, Love. . . . And
who has fed this glorious life in our souls more
powerfully, more exquisitely, than Byron in his
nobler moods ! . . . Well might my beloved
grandfather have honoured that man and his poetry,
and Grod be thanked that his devoted admiration
has kindled mine ! "

What a wondrous power Nature exerts over us
when, with her spells of enchantment, she transports
us into a realm of radiant blessedness, in
which we behold vast and misty visions of such
exceeding joy and loveliness — visions, too, in which
we seem to live a sublime, far-reaching existence,
wherein we gain all knowledge, pierce to the heart
of all mysteries, win all love and power, and walk
triumphantly through a universe of worshipping,
grateful disciples, adorers — continually drawing
nearer and nearer to the Central Source and Fountain
of all Light, and Love, and Power. . . . Then
there were seasons when I seemed to approach very
nigh, also, to gentle, loving hearts, to all who
were full of womanly grace and beauty and
tenderness. . . . But there was one, only one
living, breathing form that at length remained continuously
by my side in those sweet visions, and
she — how can I speak of that ineffable brightness,
sweetness, tender grace and love . . . ! Yet,
like the sea, so soft and smiling in the sunshine
ah, it can change to tempest and grandest storm."

The writer's emotions appear to have prevented
any further entries in his journal for many days.

Wild and intellectually lawless as were evidently
this young fellow's aims and passions, yet vice was
always associated in his mind with coarseness and
with a certain baseness of character which inspired

him only with scorn and loathing. Hence it was
resolutely, or rather, instinctively by him avoided.
Wilfrid Dayrell's romantic aspirations and lofty
dreams preserved him from the corruption of the
world around him ; but they could not protect him
from the extravagant idolatry, the exaggerated estimates
and imaginings, the feverish ambitions, and
romantic restless yearnings, which had dominated
his mind through boyhood and youth with increasing
violence to the period now described.

Young Dayrell had left his University amid an
accumulation of honours which would have turned
the head of a less cynical victor. A high place in
the schools, a double first-class in classics and
history, were not the whole of his achievements.
The Newgate prize poem was adjudged to be the
production of his brilliant fancy, though that is
not necessarily saying very much for it — and his
recitation of that poem, coupled with his other
successes, drew down shouts of applause even
from gownsmen who heartily disliked the man,
though they thus generously extolled the victor.
His family connections and social position gave
him at once, on coming to London, an entrance
into so-called " good society," and before long the
Lady Stella heard on every side the brief buzz of
popular eulogium which resounded through fashionable
gatherings wherever the young " Oxonian
triumphant " moved. The women, with the exception
of two or three acidulated dowagers, universally

pronounced him " a most interesting young
man," " bearing the stamp of genius in every
feature," and for a few months he was discussed,
invited, flattered in many quarters admission to
which was coveted in vain by, perhaps, much
worthier men. But the hero or victim of these
attentions was unconscious of the flattering opinion
they implied, altogether indifferent to them as regarded
any personal vanity or pride. He rejoiced
in them only as they brought him into delightful
relations with highly cultivated men, and with
women, the fairest of their sex among the " Upper
Ten."

After a time, however, he found it was possible
to have too much even of good things. He had
previously known comparatively little of womankind.
His mother was beloved in a way, and was
above criticism — his young sisters were beneath it ;
and he began to think that possibly "distance" had
lent enchantment to the view." So that, though
it was merely the extravagance of his worship that
was checked, yet a certain amount of disillu-
agonizing, no doubt, took place. But the aching
void in young Dayrell's heart remained unfilled,
and when he returned to the solitude of his rooms
in the Albany, from some brilliant assembly, and
sighed over the hollow mockery of happiness, ashe
began to regard it, with which the fashionable
world regaled him, he longed more ardently than
ever for those 'aisles of the Blest," which, with the

true Dayrell instinct, he felt assured were somewhere
to be found.

Was he right, then, he sometimes asked himself,
in thus sighing for happiness, right in believing in
that Worship of Joy which one whom he so deeply
honoured had held up for universal devotion, especially
for the acceptance of modern Englishmen, as no
less fitting now than for early Greeks, in the Youth
of the world ? There was a strange fierce contest in
his heart over that matter, for naturally he was always
inclined to look on the dark side of things, to
anticipate evil, and to revel in gloomy views of Providence,
mankind, and life generally. This tendency
had been fostered by desperate endeavours to write
a tragic drama of dismal purpose in his various long
vacations ; but although his sense of the constant
pressure or approach of evil filled his life with
continually recurring gloom, it did not blast it
with the worst of all agonies. Fear. He had inherited
the Dayrell high-bred courage, and cherished
it as one of his chief treasures. Whether the
cynical stoicism which took the place of that ignoble
cowardice that in some form afflicts so many
otherwise pure and noble masculine souls, as well
as women and children, sick people, and thieves
was a happier or more righteous state of mind,
might be a question that, as yet, had never
occurred to him.

Another question, however, of some little moment
to the happiness of himself and his friends, had

also not occurred to him, but nevertheless it had
to be answered.

"Don't you think, Dayrell," said his Oxford friend,
Fred Ellerslie, one day, " that you are rather an
unforgiving sort of fellow ? I should be sorry to fall
out with you if it could be conveniently avoided,
for I know you would never make it up again."

Probably not, my dear old Diogenes, for you
might be rude, and rudeness, let me tell you, is
much harder to forgive than a serious injury. But
if I didn't forgive you it would be because
I should always esteem and like you to the end of
the chapter, do what you would. If I didn't respect
or care for you I should forgive you in the course
of twenty-four hours, had you been ever so rude."

That's one of your everlasting paradoxes," replied
Ellerslie, with a slight touch of good-humoured
contempt. "But you mean well, and
knowing my own worth, I accept your complimentary
opinion of me — yet with gratitude. But
your remark is paradoxical."

Not a bit of it. Look here ! I have great
authority for it. One of the wisest of men (next,
in fact, to Solomon), Lavater, the German sage,
says ' He who forgives a trespass of sentiment
to a friend is as unworthy of friendship as that
friend himself.' "

Oh, gammon ! " exclaimed Ellerslie. " Don't
you believe it ; not for a moment."

"I do believe it, old boy, and shall to the day

of my death, and have acted upon it, and will
again, ad infinite." Perhaps he was wrong, after
all, and lived to see that even the wisest of men,
including both Solomon and Lavater, may for once
in their lives be fatally mistaken, thereby ruinously
misleading many fools.

Yet Dayrell was no fool. Sad to say, our wisdom
and our folly, our strength and weakness, our
virtues and vices, appear to spring from the
same root ; and the evil that is in us doubtless
works the greater mischief because it is often part
of the out-come of all that is best and noblest in
our characters. That was a good expression of the
shrewd Frenchman's — " les defaults de ses qualities "
('* bonnes " qualities, remember, being meant).

Dayrell had many " bonnes qualities," and certainly
great abilities, but they had their " defaults''

When Ellerslie quoted the witty Frenchman's
saying, Dayrell had capped it with a remark from
an old dramatist —

The web of our life is of a mingled yarn, good and ill together :
our virtues would be proud, if our faults whipped them not ; and our
crimes would despair if they were not cherished by our virtues. "

Splendid I " said Ellerslie. " Where did you get
it?"

From the man who knew and told us everything
concerning human character and doings — the
Swan of Avon, in ' All's well that ends well'* And
he put it in the mouth of a subordinate character —

Act.iv., Sc. 3.

a man not even named. "What boundless prodigality
! Shakespeare makes all aspiring young
Englishmen want to write dramas, and — despair of
success."

What a mercy," murmured Fred, " for us humbler
folk, that Dayrell has a few defaults to whip his
innumerable virtues ! "

^

:^

Into the sphere, under the magnetic influence, of
this strangely-gifted creature, came at length the
Lady Stella, like the rest of her "set." Into his
sphere, but not under his influence till after many
meetings. She resembled him, indeed, so much
in his cynicism and despairing views of life, in
his indifference to popular approval and applause,
that on those grounds she could not help being
attracted towards him. But she shuddered at the
thought of his poetry and romantic tendencies.
She would have despised herself had she found she,
too, was bowing in homage, with a number of silly
girls, before this ridiculous young genius, who was
probably only another rhymer like her early
idol, but in a far less pleasing guise.

Nevertheless, the tale of his intellectual triumphs
at Oxford had a strange charm, and when she
condescended on some occasion to join a little
circle of young friends who were conversing ^vith
him, she was drawn into the vortex of enjoyment
in spite of herself, and went home secretly admitting
that " this absurdly-lauded young lion-cub,
after all, was rather fascinating."

Perhaps the awful "Nemesis of Faith," in the

august, mysterious recesses of her dread abode,
knew well that both these individuals were of a
nature too noble to be satisfied with mere negations,
and that deep in their souls there might be an indestructible
passionate desire, childish or child-like,
for something they had not yet found.

The early days of their intercourse in society were
not propitious. Greatly as Dayrell could not help
sometimes being enamoured of the young lady, he
yet every now and then felt towards her that indescribable
antipathy which is so real when it occurs,
and so difficult either to account for or overcome.
Yet not so very difficult after all, to account for,
if you look for an explanation in the right place.

One evening, in a small, select, and brilliant
circle assembled at the house of a celebrated leader
of fashion, Dayrell had been speaking with a
subdued animation and earnestness that enchained
the attention of several of that lady's guests ; and
then, with a simple and sublime unconsciousness,
finished off his remarks by a striking and pathetic
quotation in illustration of his views, from one of
his own poems ! When the murmur of interest and
approval which followed had died away, Lady Stella,
who had been one of the listeners, was heard asking
her pretty cousin Frances if she was acquainted
with Winthrop M. Praed's charming poems, especially
one called " Beauty and her Visitors " —
"that is," she added, "Lady Julia (their lovely
hostess) and ourselves."

Oh, do let us hear it ! " exclaimed two or three
voices.

"I remember only what happened to one of
her visitors' answered Stella, "and I think it runs
thus :

Then Genius snatched his golden lute,

And told a tale of Love and Glory ;
The crowd around were hushed and mute

To hear so sad and sweet a story.
And Beauty marked the minstrel's cheek,
So very pale — no bust was paler—

Vowed she could listen for a week —

But really he should change his tailor.' "

Amid the hearty laughter of most of the listeners
some only smiled, and severely. Among these last
was the pretty and sentimental, yet frivolous young
cousin, to whom the quotation had been chiefly
addressed, and who took the first opportunity
of whispering to Lady Stella:

It's bad enough for a man to sniff and scoff
at sentiment and sacred things, but in a woman
it's horrid. To make mock of love, and worship,
and religion, as you do "

"Is a superfluity of naughtiness, I grant," interrupted
Stella. "Yet the object of your love and
worship, Mr. Wilfrid, the sublime and beautiful,
himself does the same."

The cousin, blushing, turned away with a pained
and scornful denial, adding angrily :

Do you not see you have forced the young
man to leave the room ? For shame ! "

VOL. I. 3

The Princess Silver-Star (as she was called since
the fancy-ball) did not, however, appear to feel any
sense of shame, but rather to enjoy her triumph.
Nevertheless, Frances noticed a few days later that
she took an early opportunity of asking Mr. Dayrell's
forgiveness in so sweet, yet comical a manner, that
it is a wonder that gentleman did not find, experimentally,
the truth of an old classic quotation
respecting the Amantiuni ice so sedulously instilled
into every Eton schoolboy (at one end or
the other), and, indeed, every student of that
immortal grammar.

But find it, he didn't ; and for a time nursed
his wrath and vexed his wounded feelings.

Nevertheless, an impressionable, imaginative young
man like our poet, who had once been desperately
in love with such a girl as Stella Faulconhurst,
could not behold her striking face and figure
whenever they met, or listen to her singing, her
conversation, her quizzing, and her wit, unmoved —
especially when he caught her speaking eyes fixed
on himself, as he answered in his curt, incisive
fashion some of the clever questions propounded by
a little circle of amused or admiring guests.

There were, indeed, many points of similarity
between the Star-princess and himself — a circumstance,
however, which it has been remarked does
not always tend to attract, though it does conduce
to swift mutual understanding. Both of them
despised the homage they called forth; still more

that craving desire for it or for any kind of popular
applause, and which they saw tormenting the lives
of the less highly-gifted beings, both men and
women around them.

The fact is, the lady was weary of the admiration
of empty-headed coxcombs, of their frivolous chatter,
their slang and smoking, their "horsey" talk and
muscular athletic prowess ; especially of their ill-concealed
and base delight in ballet-dancers and
burlesques. If there was anywhere on earth a
nobler life lived by human beings, she knew little
of it, save when she happened to read in the
newspapers of the rescue of drowning men by lifeboats
in a raging storm : and while she generally
respected the " matrons " of society, the young ladies
she regarded with kindly but ill-concealed contempt.
" Vanity of vanities ! all is vanity," washer
favourite quotation, and the only settled
article of her creed. Wilfrid Dayrell shared her
weariness and disappointment concerning all earthly
enjoyments, and to some extent in regard to all
ordinary articles of religious belief. Like her, he was
suffering from the reaction of disappointed love —
a first love. But in his case it had been the love,
not of mortal maiden, but of an ideal — the love of
Beauty, of Joy, and of Xature — and then of all
the surroundings and aims of University life,
of all that the enthusiasm and genius of his grandfather
had fostered in his young soul. And from
the glamour, the dreams, and the worship that

3—2

had thus for a time filled his whole being, he
awoke to despise and scorn — with what the
elder Dayrell would have regarded as miserable
blindness — alike himself and his idols, his worship
and his faith. When in the darkness of the night
he lifted his eyes to the silent stars, and despairingly
asked why his state was so different from
that of the noble dead — the hero of the Dionysiac
cult — an answer came. But he heard it not. The
difference between a life self-centred, and one
spent for others, was not, yet, to him quite
apparent.

Hence, both these young people were, or had recently
been, in a highly advantageous position for making
mock of faith, adoration, love. No doubt there were
lucid intervals, especially in Dayrell's case, when they
felt as strongly as ever, if not the old capacity for
adoration and faith, yet the passionate longing to feel
it. And as the young man found himself ever and
anon unexpectedly sliding deeper and deeper into
an admiration and thence into a passionate love and
worship for the gifted, star-crowned maiden, he felt
once again a capacity for true heart-worship of
something beyond, and above, mortal and earthly
charms, kindled within him. While as for the lady
herself, she was certainly beginning to see that
some, at least, of her contempt for all that she
had heard called religion and worship was generated
by the influences of the frivolous, debasing, or superstitious
world in which, when in London, she had

chiefly lived. Thence she also was beginning to
suspect that she had a dual existence, and to learn
she was a different being in the sweet rural life of
Hurstleigh Manor from that which London made
her, or " London Society " conceived her to be.

If the course of Wilfrid Dayrell's love had run a
little smoother, and had evoked a corresponding attachment
in the lady's heart, they might perhaps,
in spite of London Society, have even then discovered
their way to those " Isles of Joy " — the
new Atlantis — to that lofty realm of worship, faith,
and love, aye and at length, perhaps, to that celestial
peace, of which now, at intervals, they could
only dream.

But Dayrell's love, whether true or transient, certainly
did not run a very smooth course. And
his exclamation to himself as he returned to his
chambers after that evening party, when Lady
Stella was quoting Praed, did not look at all favourable
to such a consummation. " Unfeminine, sarcastic,
arrogant I She wants to make everybody
bow down, or give way, to her ! ' Foenuin habet in
cormc ! ' I'm a fool if in future, at all events, I
let myself be gored and tossed." Hence for a time
antipathy was in the ascendant. Stella returned it
with interest. For she could not endure what she
fancied was his assumption of superiority, nor contentedly
resign her supremacy in the social circle.
She was piqued at what she thought his studied
kindness to her claims of universal empire, showing

thereby, it may be, that he was not entirely an
object of indifference to herself. But when he was
sending up sky-rockets of brilliant epigrams, anecdote,
and philosophic aphorism in the social circle,
she could not help standing still to watch with
something like admiration, and wistful sympathy,
the sparkling coruscations of his youthful and fantastic
genius.

Moreover, since in spite of all obstacles to friendly
rapprocheTnent, there were so many subjects of common
and deep interest between them, it necessarily
happened every now and then, each heard the
other, when they met " in company," utter something
that made their heart beat quickly and their
eyes turn to each other instantaneously with swift
sympathetic and joyous glance. And all the time
they knew this sympathy was in spite of themselves,
in spite of divers firm resolutions formed in
cooler and solitary or angry hours.

One day, memorable to both, these ill-regulated
young persons met at a garden party near Richmond.
Dayrell was not yet quite sure whether he
loved or hated Lady Stella when he was on his way
thither, but he had very little doubt on the subject
when he saw his "bright particular star" shining
among a group of charming girls on the lawn, as far
above them in brilliancy as Venus among her sister
planets, and advancing one or two steps to greet
him. Then in the course of the afternoon they opposed
one another at lawn-tennis, and both being
practised and very agile players, it was impossible
to help admiring each other's remarkable skill,
especially when after several hotly-contested games,
the lady discovered that her side was defeated,
mainly through the ubiquitous prowess of this
young athlete. Then came a little music, and
Dayrell listened entranced to Lady Stella's exquisite
singing. Later on they found themselves, of course
accidentally, thrown together in a ramble through
the spacious grounds, and before they noticed that
they were alone, somehow became absorbed in an
exciting discussion concerning the old Greek games
with all the abounding life and joy that characterized

them. Thence, antipathy lost for a time in a
fathomless sea of mutual delight, they glided into
the later history of that glorious nation, and found
themselves in perfect sympathy of indignation over
the continued cruel subjugation of some of its
fairest provinces by the ruthless Turk. They joined
in fervent aspirations for its complete emancipation
and final restoration to the position it once held in
Europe, ere the ferocious hordes from Central Asia
conquered and crushed those lovely regions of
Eastern Europe.

It is the worship they gave to Beauty and
Truth," said Lady Stella, half aloud, " which has
won the admiration of the world."

*' Yes," replied her companion, turning to her
with a quick keen admiring glance. "And that is
a worship which need be neither feared nor scorned.

It cannot be claimed by Superstition "

•*Nor be defiled by Bigotry or Fear," added the
lady.

Thereupon came an interval of meditation — each
meandering along, lost in blissful reverie.

But yet," said young Dayrell at length, " I
doubt if a mere abstract cult like that would ever
have secured to Greece her wonderful fascination
over our Western hearts and minds. "What is it
that has given her Norman, Celt, and Saxon for
willing adorers during all succeeding ages ? "

Her glorious legends," answered the lady with
kindling enthusiasm. " Her fables, her poetry, all

boding forth in concrete forms her worship of the
Beautiful and Sublime."

But — pardon me — how do you reconcile — I mean
I have heard you decry, even severely denounce,
worship and worshippers with indignant scorn."

Have you ? " replied Lady Stella, but her tone
was not scornful now — rather it was softened, gentle,
as if she were a little pleased that he should have
noticed remarks of hers. " Ah, but that was when
some of those terrible saints had been talking about
what they call public worship and * divine service,'
and all the mummers and shams those posture-masters,
candle-worshippers, and orthodox milliners
take refuge in to save themselves from some imaginary
vengeful deity."

But the ancient Greeks believed in vengeful
deities" . . .

True, but they did not, at the same time, with
exquisite irony, call them, or any one of them,
their * Father in heaven.* "

"And oh, how pale and poor is the so-called worship
of these modern Christians," replied Dayrell,
"compared with that of the early Greeks."

"Aye, and how cold and lifeless," exclaimed his
companion, now thoroughly roused, " are the imaginary
objects of modern worship, and Christian
fetichism, compared with the thought in the Grecian,
still more in the Persian, mind concerning their
gods ? It may be all imagination, Mr. Dayrell,
may it not ? Both their and our gods exist only

in our own ' fond desiring souls,' as your favourite
poet hath it — but I feel I could worship Apollo
in the Sun, or Diana in that lovely moon, and
even the sacred Fire itself, with all my heart and
soul."

Or the Goddess of Wisdom in some grand Parthenon,
open to the stars."

'' Or Dionysus in the purple vintage," added the
lady, turning a momentary half-playful, half-sarcastic
glance at her companion.

"Keep to the loftier realm, Lady Stella," replied
Dayrell stoutly, " as your celestial name should teach
you." He anticipated a frown or a glance of contempt,
but was answered by a gracious smile.

Emerging from a shrubbery walk, they came upon
a far-stretching view into Richmond Park with justa
glimpse of a bit of the Surrey hills in the distance.
Involuntarily they stopped and gazed in silence.
Certainly it was a lovely scene. The Sun had lately
set, and a silvery crescent moon floated over the
place of his rest. The Evening Star in all its soft
brilliancy was shining near her Queen.

See," said Dayrell, " there is your prototype, looking
up to its beautiful Sovereign Lady in worship and
love — itself the Star of Love and Beauty, and therefore
ruling your destiny."

Ah me," replied the lady with a sigh. " Are all
men flatterers ? . . . But if it were even as you
say," she continued in soft yet slightly mock-heroic
tones, " methinks that radiant orb were far happier

than this poor child of Earth who, you say, owns its
rule. For it has a Queen to worship, worthy of its
adoration, and it hears no flattery, has no lovers, or
else like the noble Artemis, heeds them not. But
where can / find an object worthy of worship, either
among the Lights of heaven or the ignes fata of
earth — Among my own frivolous sex ? or, as you would
doubtless hint, among the coarse and selfish stuff
called Superior Man ? "

Dear Lady Disdain," said Dayrell with calm
masterfulness, " must Worship then be limited to
created forms or to the foolish children of the dust ?
. . . And may we not sometimes miss the true
worship, not because there is no fitting object of
adoration, but from our own want of power and will
to adore."

Lady Stella looked at her companion admiringly —
then, for an instant, as if she would have liked to
say, " Do not think I am going to worship you."
But her eye fell before his, and she replied, "AMio-
ever could not worship in such an hour as this, were
poor and mean indeed." As they turned away towards
the house Dayrell replied, " Yes, the old Greek
worship of the Beautiful, while Time lasts, will hold
its power over noble minds. A soul like yours. Lady
Stella, cannot rest in itself, but amidst such scenes as
those we have just been looking on, goes up to that
which is Higher than itself in measureless adoration
and love ! " He scarcely knew why, but he found
he had taken the lady's hand in the excitement of

the hour. In an instant it was withdrawn — yet not
apparently in anger or surprise, while its owner said
slowly, with suppressed enthusiasm, " Ah, I know that
ever since 1 thought at all on such subjects, I have
felt incomparably more true worship as I, and I think
you, understand the word, when listening to exquisite
music or standing by the sea-shore, in a thunderstorm,
or on a mountain top, than I ever did in
church — except when the presiding musical genii
there accidentally allowed some glorious strains from
Handel or Mozart."

Certainly, it is music like theirs that best plumes
the wings of worship," replied Dayrell, " but why, oh
why can we not have grand organ music and the
vision of a sunset sky combined ? "

Just for want of two little accessories — the Grecian
climate, and the Grrecian soul," replied the lady.

** For the climate, alas, we must live in Greece,"
said Dayrell — " and why not ? But for the Grecian
soul, may it not inspire us here and now ? " Then
he spoke about Grecian poets, and legends, Grecian
heroes and philosophers — of Plato and Pericles, of
Grecian worship and gods and goddesses, as he had
never spoken before, and as the lady had never before
heard any mortal discourse, — until, fairly carried
out of herself by his burning enthusiasm, bright
imaginings, and most musical voice, she seemed lost
in his thoughts and living only in his life. The
change from her habitual and often cynical coldness
of manner was wonderfully fascinating. If a young

enthusiast's " glacial period " is sometimes transformed
into a lava flood under such exceptional circumstances
one need not be surprised — no, nor even if the glacial
period should occasionally return.

"Arrested development," indeed, is a phenomenon,
some cynics tell us, that not unfrequently occurs even
in the most violent courtship. And although, during
Dayrell's impassioned outbursts. Lady Stella had
listened with fixed and delighted attention, yet in the
momentary pause which followed, she actually found
those provoking lines of Praed's humming in her
head —

And Beauty marked the minstrel's cheek,
* * * *

Vowed she could listen for a week,"

and only saved herself from asking her companion
if he did not think he really ought to change his
tailor, by abruptly inquiring what it was he had been
asking the Dean of Westminster in the conservatory,
in the reply to which some of her witty friends
seemed interested.

Oh, it was nothing — nothing worth repeating''
answered Dayrell.

"But if I choose to ask you," retorted the lady
loftily.

"Oh yes, of course, your wishes are law," rejoined
the gentleman. "It was only that the Dean with
his usual good sense was censuring the extreme
vagaries of some of the Eitualistic clergy, but saying
that there was much more in it than you and others

seemed to think because there was so much symbolism."


'' Oh yes, I heard all that funny stuff," interrupted
the lady impatiently. " But what passed just after
that?"

Why, a demented young cleric who unluckily
overheard him turned full upon him, with so much
impertinent acrimony, that I couldn't help diverting
the tide by asking him if he knew why the letter H
was the most absurdly superstitious letter in the
alphabet. Youthful cleric was obliged to stop and
consider, but found no answer, and looked uncomfortable.
So I modestly answered, 'Because it makes
that hallowed which otherwise is but allowed.' "

Grood," said Stella. " I wish I had seen him
extinguished."

Oh, but he wasn't extinguished," replied Dayrell.
'• The Dean and most of us left him in the conservatory,
declaiming on postures and millinery to a
few benighted women."

Ah," said Stella. " I wish I could have shown
them my marmoset monkey. He preaches in a white
surplice — beautifully, and always turns to the East
at breakfast. But turning to something even more
interesting, did you hear what that dear delightful
Mr. Dean was saying as he left the conservatory,
about the joy with which he seemed to think the
Hebrew race used to celebrate their worship ? and
then he spoke beautifully, though rather gushingly,
of the joy and comfort with which those musty old

psalms filled millions of hearts to this day. Did it
not remind you a little of what old Mr. Dayrell used
to declaim about so eloquently ? "

Aye, indeed I " answered her lover with immense
delight and animation.

"But what did you think of it all?" pursued
the lady with something between a sigh and a
sneer.

"It made me think' answered the guileless devotee,
of all the intense happiness with which I have
wandered among the glorious fables of Greece, and
lived over again the sunny life of early Greeks and
realized their faith and worship and joy. Oh, I
can't tell you, Lady Stella," he continued with a
deprecating smile, " how completely I have had
faith, with them, in ^'aiad and Nymph, in Dryad
and Faun — how very real have been to me the
haunted glens of Mount Ida, where OEnone gazed
and watched by her sleeping lover, or the flowery
plain of Orthomenos where the sweet playful nymphs
nursed and tended the infant Dionysus. . . ''

Real ! '' she murmured musingly. " Yes, what
else is real ? Would that we had lived when Endymion
slept by moonlight on Patmos — "

Rather, let us once again bring down gods and
goddesses to earth I " ejaculated Dap-ell. " One of
their kindred, at least, is already here to welcome
them."

Her answer was only a reproachful smile. But
presently she said :

"I think old Mr. Dayrell was very fond of these
exquisite Greek myths and legends — "

As all noble souls," answered the young man
impulsively, " must be who desire to unfold and
perfect their nature in the higher forms which history
and imagination, alike, show are attainable.
I tell you, fair lady, smile sceptically as you may,
that the legend of those 'Isles of Joy,' far, far away
in the east or west, where, too, is found the
fountain of perpetual youth, have in them a kernel
of immortal truth. Oh, believe me, it was not a
false, deceiving dream. . . ."

'' I did not know I smiled," said the lady, '' or
if I did," she added softly, " it was not in scorn,
but I think in gladness. Perhaps my evil nature
for the time was conquered." And the young dreamer
went on encouraged :

"May there not be life, Lady Stella, which is
perpetual youth ? Are we not as much meant for
it as the unfledged skylark for the blue sky ? "

Meant for it ? " said the lady in a melancholy
tone.

"Tending towards it, then, fitted, destined — anything
you please to call it ! Only let us believe in
it as the goal to which we have to strive. Should
we not, can we not, do much even now to reach
it ? to live again in that glorious, blessed springtime
? "

Gro on," murmured Lady Stella, " I like to hear
you talk all this imaginative nonsense. It does

me good." Then turning to him Tvith that superb
grace and winning sweetness which were among her
chief characteristics, she added with a charming but
hypocritical deference, " Have you never gazed with
Gray, since you left Eton, on those ' distant spires
and antique towers,' and whispered to the fair
scenes of your youth,

I feel the gales that from ye blows

A momentary bliss bestow,
As, waving fresh their gladsome "wing,

My weary soul they seem to soothe

And redolent of joy and youth
To breathe a second spring ? ' "

Aye," responded Dayrell eagerly, " If I could a
momentary bliss on you bestow — "

Wave, wave then fresh, thy gladsome wing,

So redolent of youth, —

continued Lady Stella —

Wave it again, yet once again,
Over my weary soul."

"WTio could look on that queenly face now changed
from its usual hard satirical appearance, to a soft,
indeed, almost tender and playful expression, and not
feel swept away into at least a momentary transport
of admiration and love ? Certainly not young Dayrell.

But just as he thought the supreme moment of
life and love was come, and he was on the point
of seizing her hand, not this time to let it be
withdrawn, the lady, provokingly, stepped quickly
forward; yet, when a little ahead of him, and well
out of danger, she looked back with a saucy smile,
VOL. I. 4

saying, " You don't seem to be waving a very gladsome
wing just now. If you can't think of anything
original, such as a poet ought at once to
improvise in reply to my quotation, under such circumstances
do as I did, and quotes

I will," exclaimed Dayrell, impetuously, though
with effort. " But if I quote from "Wordsworth's
glorious ode, remember," he added, " it is not with a
controversial view. I don't say for a moment — don't
in the remotest way even hint — whatever I may believe
— that there is the slightest chance of what I
know too well you don't believe in — a life beyond the
grave. All I ask you to hope for is what poets,
prophets, philosophic seers, have beheld in glorious
vision — a World of Beauty and Harmony, a Life of
Love and Joy realized on this earth. And just
because you cannot share in Wordsworth's hope of
immortality, let us all the more believe that we,
and all true believers, may renew our ' golden
prime ' and bring back the ' Juvenis mundi,' the
glorious youth of our race even here and now in
this grand world. For

' . . . . in a season of fairweather

Though inland far vre be,
Our souls have sight of that immortal sea

Which brought us hither —
Can in a moment travel thither,

And see the children sport upon the shore,'
And with them sport and bathe

In that bright sea of Beauty, Love, eternal Youth."

Stella shook her head, but took up the strain,
softly singing :

Oh, joy that in thine embers,
The ashes of thy youth,
Is something that doth live —
That Dayrell yet remembers
What was so fugitive — "

But which," responded Dayrell,

'' We yet shall cause again to live
Till it shall be * the fountain light of all our day.'

It seems to me as if the gods had given us
once in the evolution of ages a vision of man's
true ideal life, of perfect humanity and gladness —
of exultant, joyous, "musical existence, in those
Grecian * children' of our race, in that Hellenic
land of loveliness, in those dreams of theirs, of
beauty and freedom, of love and joy, wherein we
see them * sport upon the shore,' that mankind
might have at least one pure well from which to
refresh their weary souls, and one ideal to which
they should evermore aspire. See that glorious
sunset sky, opening out into far-off realms of
heavenly joy and beauty. Does it not seem

' As if to grace the gorgeous West,
The Spirit of departing Light — '

had given us a momentary glimpse into the
brighter world ' beyond the sea,' where those * Isles
of Joy,' are indeed awaiting all beautiful and heroic
souls, and of which we have so many exquisite
visions given us now, to reveal to us our true and
gladsome destiny. Ah, Lady Stella, may we not
hope and strive to reach it ! The ghost of Hamlet's
father appeared to his unhappy son to goad him

'{mmm m ^^'

to revenge a foul unnatural wrong. The spirit of
my honoured grandsire rises before me ever and
anon, not only in 'pale glimpses of the moon butin
glorious sunny dawn — as he was once on earth,
is now perhaps for ever — full of buoyant youthful
gladness, calling me to herald and proclaim the
kingdom, and the holy loving worship of divine
eternal Joy. . . . There ! " added the speaker, as he
faced his amused and, in site of her amusement,
sympathizing listener — for he dreaded lest she should
think him too much in earnest. "Beat that, Lady
Stella, if you can. But," he continued, gradually
sinking his voice into a low, deep, pleading whisper,
but oh, believe in it all, and believe just a little,
in me. Will you not ? "

"It is infinitely refreshing," replied the lady
slowly, " to know that any one with brains still
believes in the worship of Joy, and to hear him
speak of it as you do. . . . But . . . sometimes
I think — nay very often —-^^^^^^ ^^y 
of the Dionysiac cult — (that's you.
Sir Wilfrid) — that there is no longer any joy left
in this English world, or in this mortal life, to be
worshipped at all. The world is growing senile ; it
seems to me, men find their chief delight in betting
and gambling, in speculation and smoking, or intrigue.
They understand nothing of real ' Play,' but
make a business and exhausting toil of nearly all
amusements, and recruit their jaded spirits with burlesques
and ballet-dancing, lulling themselves with

tobacco, or exciting themselves with, drink. The
worship of Joy ! nay, preach it not to me. Ah, Mr.

Dayrell, how indescribably sad and dreary is all "

The fair speaker paused, then gazing for an instant
on her lover with an expression that made his
heart beat high with hope, she exclaimed. " Xot Joy,
not Peace, but — Intellect — Yes, I can worship that ! "

There was profound stillness in the air — soft
ensuing silence, broken only now and then by the
last notes of a song-bird, or the distant lowing of
one or two home-sick kine.

It cannot be denied that at this moment there
was grave reason to apprehend that Lady Stella
Faulconhurst and Wilfrid Dayrell were very near
each other in heart and soul, nearer than they had
ever been before. For both of them — as it would
seem to the cynical world — were in reality alike
injudiciously enthusiastic and dangerously romantic.
But imaginative natures are given to romance, while
romantic enthusiasm is not necessarily combined
with a capacity for deep unselfish love ; such natures
moreover are liable to sharp reaction and sudden
depression, as well as to an oppressive egotism.
* * •

It was growing dusk, dark in fact under the trees,
but they had unknowingly come very near the
house, where on the lawn the rest of the guests
were assembling preparatory to taking their departure,
sipping claret-cup and negus. Sounds of
music issued from the open windows of the drawing

room, and they stood a few moments silent, hidden
by flowering shrubs. A rich contralto voice was
heard singing that exquisite little Spanish song,
Juanita." The effect was magical, but not exactly
the same on both the deluded young persons who were
listening concealed. Dayrell was entranced with
delight ; not so the lady. He turned towards her
with impassioned gesture, just as she caught sight
of her aunt and cousin evidently in search of them,
and heard them mention her name to a young
couple on the lawn. The latter looked in the
direction where she and her lover were standing.
The dreadful thought occurred, Had they not caught
sight of her already, accompanied by Dayrell; or
if she waited another moment might they not
witness something even more ridiculous ? Clearly
she was placed in an absurd and equivocal position,
even if only by returning so late with the young
gentleman from their ramble. Hence, as the last
sweet notes of the song died away, she suddenly
withdrew her hand from his arm, turned haughtily
from him, and exclaiming with infinite contempt,
Sentimental nonsense I " abruptly left her companion,
and advanced alone towards the party on
the lawn. Dayrell felt much as if a jealous rival
had stabbed him under the regulation rib, and recovered
consciousness only to hear Lady Stella
remarking, with perfect sang-froid and with the old
cynical smile, to one of the ladies whom she met :
How much more sensible and agreeable to be out

here in the garden than in those hot stuffy rooms.
But one may have too much of a good thing."
Then putting herself under her aunt's wing, she
remained immersed in general society, until her
carriage was announced, and with chaperon and
cousin she was borne swiftly home. But she had
heard her lover, when she broke away from him,
smite his hands together with a fierce imprecation
on things in general, and most of all on woman
in particular, and her sleep that night was restless —
disturbed by evil dreams. She had not intended to
be the cause of quite such a fierce volcanic explosion,
and rather shrank from the consequences.

So they twain seemed hopelessly rent asunder by
a few hasty words, and thenceforth went groping
along their separate ways, in more or less bitterness
of soul, often in darkness that might be felt —
plunged back again, they knew not clearly how
or why, into dreary depths of mocking doubt, with
their gods vanished from the heavens like falling stars.

And though it was impossible that either of them
could be altogether ignorant of what each was
suffering, or mistake the significance of that icy
coldness and forced indifference with which they
met in society, or heard of each other's doings, no
reconciliation seemed even conceivable either to
themselves or their nearest friends.

For their hearts were swollen and turned aside,
By deep interminable pride;
This first false passion of their breast,
Rolled like a torrent o'er the rest."

And like the Venetian renegade, they met all
the pitiful pleading of their secret souls, or of
nearest friends, for some concession, some admission
of wrong committed, some riving asunder by the
Angel of Humility of the dark cloud of wrath that
overhung them with the answer, —

No — though that cloud were thunder's worst
And charged to crush them— let it burst."

All this little secret quasi-comic tragedy was merely
a piquant peirce, or at the best a poor nine-days'
wonder to such members of " Society " as were competent
to observe and discuss it. It enlivened more
than one box at the theatre, and filled up sundry
pauses in the dance for a week or two ; then some
other spectacle — tragi-comedy, operetta, ballet, scandal,
or farce — swept along and absorbed the general interest.


But it was not altogether safe (as one or two inconsiderate,
flippant young persons of the lighter
sort found to their cost) to attempt to rally either
of the two principal actors and sufferers in this special
dramatic performance on their supposed dejection.

Fred Ellerslie, indeed, though heartily regretting
that his friend " had come such a cropper," and generally
showing only respectful as well as kindly sympathy,
could not refrain one night from mentioning
to some light-minded friend in Dayrell's hearing a
curious incident which had occurred only an horn-previously.


Coming up the Blackfriars Road," said he, " this

most gloomy and detestable evening, where I had
been taking a ' constitutional,' and was studying the
fanny and flora of that terra incog., I noticed two
old beldame crooning to each other a little in front
of me. As I passed them I distinctly heard one of
them say : ' And so you see he were crossed in love —
that is, he were run over the weary day afore he were
a-going to be married.' "

A general and hearty laugh ensued, in which,
however, Dayrell didn't join. Some incredulity was
expressed as to the genuineness of the story, and
one of the listeners declared that he didn't think
Ellerslie had been witty enough to invent such a
capital joke.

Neither am I," replied Fred. " I defy any fellow
to have concocted that explanation. I assure you,
seriously, I heard those very words not two hours
ago. The old lady had evidently met with the expression
being ' crossed in love,' had probably, often
been in danger herself of being run over at crossings,
took it for granted in her beautiful innocence that
any one about to be married must be in love — muddled
all these ideas, and the tragic event, up into one
grand though hazy Turneresque conception, and contributed
her immortal saying to the wit and wisdom
of our national street folk-lore. Fortunate that I
was at hand to preserve and record it."

As Dayrell departed, he shook hands with his friend
and said privately :

I forgive you. No erring mortal could have resisted

the temptation to tell that story, and I acquit
you of malicious intent or invention. I wouldn't have
missed hearing it for something — only don't imagine I
myself am in any special danger of dying in that way."
But friends were generally discreet and considerate,
while the lovers' kind-hearted relatives on either side
were careful to avoid (or repress in their presence) all
reference to sunsets, poetry, music, and the worship
of Joy generally, as well as to Greek myths aud
legends in particular. But there was very little outside
show of dejection or disappointment anywhere.
Close observers might remark that Dayrell was more
than usually smart and snappish in his repartees, and
even in his ordinary talk ; but he wrote more brilliantly
and to the purpose in prose, and more stinging
and wittily in verse, than ever. While the Lady
Stella was wonderfully improved in her behaviour to
everybody except her quondam suitor (whom she met
disdainfully or turned from contemptuously), so that
Society pronounced her to be much more sociable
and less dangerous than formerly.

<^|c3le-^

Time, nevertheless, somehow or other, wore on —
wearily, painfully, or pleasantly. Another season came
round. Dayrell and Lady Stella in the meantime had
seen very little of each other since that exciting conversation
and its dismal ending at the Richmond
garden party. The course of their inner life, with all
its conflicting thoughts and emotions, its ridiculously
morbid regrets and bitter resentments, or remorseful,
tormenting self-reproaches, need not be further mentioned
here. For these moods of heart and mind
in glowing or gloomy youth are often as changeful
as they are tumultuous, and as passionate as painful,
useful, perhaps, to be known as warnings, but scarcely
edifying to the public. It is enough, and perhaps
more than enough, to know that in natures like those
of the two young companions in that garden walk,
there are often effects produced by such scenes which
do not pass away, but leave indelible marks of bane
or blessing. And in the hearts of both, there was not
only the changing and conflicting tide of passion, buta
deep aching sense in each (of which they were
but half conscious) that they had then made great
fools of themselves, had come very near the true
perfection of their earthly life and happiness, and

been wrenched asunder by some cruel and destroying
fate, or some shameful outbreak of temper and
pride, resentment or folly, which had left them
like a stranded vessel, still near to the broad river
of a mutual and immortal love, but on which they
could now never hope to

. . . . launch away,
And spread their white-winged sails to the light of an Eastern day."

Yet when the London season came round again
the following year, and in spite of their professed
indifference to the ordinary dissipations of the
fashionable world, the lady and her irreconcilable
lover were continually being drawn into the vortex,
each was frequently condemned to hear of some
remarkable sayings or doings attributed by admiring
or satirical followers to the other. Lady
Stella's beauty, accomplishments, and wit (all the
more enjoyed for its pungency and sarcasm), her
brilliant singing, and singularly graceful dancing
when induced to give way (which was not seldom)
to that frivolous and enchanting amusement, were
the theme of a hundred tongues, especially of her
many masculine admirers ; so that Dayrell inevitably
heard enough to keep him at chronic fever
point, in spite of all the cold water douches he employed
to extinguish the flame. While on her part,
Mr. Dayrell's verses and reputation for classic learning,
not of the prosy but the fascinating kind, his articles
in leading periodicals, his conversation on the drama
and politics of the day, above all, his enchanting

tableaux vivants, charades, and drawing-room theatricals,
were so much the lionizing rage amongst " the
upper Ten," that her pretty little frivolous cousin
actually composed a short parable for a certain Sunday
school magazine, respecting the danger in which a
lovely humming-bird was once placed of being fascinated
by the rattle of a deadly serpent, as a warning
to young girls in regard to the race of fascinating
human serpents generally.

There was, however, one great safeguard for the
lovely humming-bird against any danger of a renewal
of young Dayrell's attentions whereof she was not
aware. If the fact that she would inherit a considerable
property at her father's death, and probably receive
a large dowry should she marry in his lifetime, ever
occurred to herself, she thought of it simply as a
pleasant means of enabling the man of her choice,
whoever he might be, to enjoy many advantages
and luxuries he might not otherwise possess, as well
as give her considerable power over him. But when
first Wilfrid Dayrell realized that fact, it came on
him with a sharp pain, and seemed to make any,
even the remotest, idea of renewing his suit absolutely
impossible, supposing all other obstacles removed ;
for his father had decided not to make " an eldest
son " of him, but had rightly left his widow in possession
for her lifetime of his not very large estate,
and divided it equally among his children afterwards.
Thus, then, the lovers went stumbling, blundering
on, fancying themselves very fine, high-minded young

people, utterly unsuspicious of their blindness and
poverty, egotism and folly, and perhaps equally unconscious
of their true greatness in virtue of certain
divine relationships which the angels thought they
both possessed, but which they themselves strictly
ignored.

Under circumstances like these, however, it is not
surprising that, with Ellerslie's advice and guidance,
Dayrell began reading tremendously hard for the
bar — nor that in course of time he took it much
more easily.

The following summer it so happened that " Society "
was greatly exercised about a remarkable picture in
the Royal Academy and its author. It was evidently
executed by an amateur, sadly wanting in
technical execution and recognized conventional art,
yet so striking in its effect and so full of genius
alike in conception, composition and artistic power
that it would have had little difficulty in obtaining
admission to any Continental Gallery or
Exhibition. But a large amount of influential
pressure had to be exerted on the Royal Academicians'
Hanging Committee before official as well as
professional jealousy and disapproval were overcome.
For besides its technical defects, it was by an unknown
man who gave the name of Horace Grantley
— a man who had never studied in the Academy,
nor made friends of the Academicians. Admitted,
however, it was at last, and actually hung on the
line, for the Hanging Committee felt that it would
draw'"

The subject of the picture was a lovely sunset
sky, across whose delicate roseate flush two or
three black, jagged clouds were rising, while in the
bold darkening foreground a youth and maiden were

standing, their hands clasped, but their faces, on
which the light still shone, averted from each other,
as if in the act of parting. And on those faces
was depicted an expression of subdued anguish, especially
on that of the young man, almost terrible
to behold.

The name of the picture in the catalogue was
merely " In the gloaming," but underneath were
the explanatory lines :

"In the gloaming — broken-hearted —

How or why they scarcely knew —
Only knew, though now they parted,

Once their love was deep and true."

The provoking part of the business was that the
gifted young artist would not let himself be lionized,
accepted no invitations, resisted all attempts to
draw him from his seclusion, returned no calls. In
fact, the good lady who took in Mr. Grantley's
letters at the address given in the catalogue, said
he came there only now and then since his painting
had been finished and taken away. So no
progress could be made either by " lion-hunters,"
genuine admirers and generous artists, or patrons
of art. But the picture was sold for a considerable
sum within a fortnight of its being exhibited.

There was generally a crowd round it in the
earlier part of the day. But one evening, soon
after the opening day, when the throng of visitors
to the Exhibition had considerably lessened, a young
lady stood gazing at it long and silently. As she

turned round she encountered Wilfrid Dayrell, and
slightly started. Their eyes met, wandered to the
picture, then back again, and for an instant they
looked in each other's faces. As the lady bowed
and turned away with a rising colour, she said
softly :

I did not know you had learned to paint in oils ; "
adding, " and were not ashamed to sail under
false colours."

Ladies often change their names from mere
sentimental nonsense," replied the young man, " why
may not men do the same ? "

The Lady Stella did not look at any more pictures
in the Academy that evening, nor did she seem inclined
to visit it again for some time. Horace Grantley's
picture continued to adorn the walls of Burlington
House, and when the Academy closed he
was speedily forgotten.

But a day or two after that rencontre a rather
eminent statesman called at Sir Michael Godhead's
house in Portman Square. He had done so several
times previously, had dined there, had manifested
on such occasions something of the intellectual
grasp and that power of expression which had won
him a distinguished position in the political world.
No wonder Lady Stella listened with rapt attention
to his converse. His daughter (for he was a
widower) had also called, and had been at Lady
Stella's parties, and had tried, without any remarkable
failure or success, to make herself agreeable
VOL. I. 5

to the young heiress. The father, in fact, seemed
more successful in that line than' the daughter. He
was still in the prime of life, having married when
only twenty, and exerted with no slight skill his power
of discoursing to the young lady on all political affairs,
past, present, and future. In his company Stella's
cynicism and sarcasms alike disappeared. Her ambition
and her imagination were evidently captivated ;
and, above all, her intellect was satisfied and gratify-ed
beyond her expectations. Yet, strange to say, she
had a heart, which she always endeavoured to ignore
sometimes (perhaps often) in vain — and which was
now far from content. Memories of other conversations,
visions of a pale young face and fire-darting
eyes, momentary yet passionate desires to feel once
more " . the touch of a vanished hand,"
to hear " the sound of a voice ." that
might never reach her ears again — these had kept
that woman's heart of hers in stout rebellion against
her dominant intellect and ambition. And then
came the sight of that picture, and the lines beneath
it, and the presence of the artist, and the
sound of the musical voice that for her had long
been "still."

But the eminent statesman knew only of the
evident interest felt by the lady in his visits and
conversation — nothing of the rebellion. How should
he ? He had inherited from his excellent parents
but little of what are called the affections, and had
certainly never cultivated : what little he possessed

Hence he had called more than once in Portman
Square, had held long and interesting conversations
with the charming, witty, handsome, highly-educated,
clever daughter of his old friend, the M.F.H., and
thought himself deeply in love. At length he
sought an interview with that friend at their club,
and as a result of the interview, proceeded with
stately step and self-complacent pride to the house
in Portman Square as above mentioned. He was
only a few days too late — had a rather agitating
interview with the lady, and, to his great surprise
and disgust, found that it was undesirable he should
call on her again.

I thought you would have accepted that great
man," said Frances ; " he argued with you so beautifully."


Yes," replied Stella. " In courtship he condescended
to argue, but in wedded bliss he would
have been omniscient, and woe to the wife that
may occasionally differ from him."

The M.F.H. was much disappointed and very cross
for at least three days. But as the hunting season,
beginning with the mystery of " cub-hunting," was
now within a measurable distance of say two months,
and he was on the point of quitting " this wretched
stupid London" for his beloved country seat withall
its rural delights, he. soon recovered his temper
and good spirits. His daughter, however, remained
in semi-disgrace until she explained Tier disinclination
to being bored about matrimonial projects in

5—2

SO peremptory a manner that the old gentleman was
fain to patch up a peace at rather short notice.

The young gentleman whom it most concerned
had heard of the projected alliance between the
statesman and the heiress, from Ellerslie without
wonder, but not without serious and nearly fatal
questionings as to the soundness of Plato's reasoning
and the wisdom of following Cato's example when
in great tribulation. At length he gave up the
use of razors, locked them away with his revolver,
got on to a Derbyshire moor on the twelfth of
August, and blazed away over the farms of Ald-
clyffe Priory among the stubble, woods, and turnips
through September and October, till he could settle
himself well in the saddle behind Sir Michael's pets.

One bright December morning that season a lithe
and practised young rider cantered along to the
meet " on a gallant chestnut mare over the springy
turf with a fresh breeze in his teeth and a sense of
recovered joy long absent from his mind. Then
came the burst from cover amid universal gaiety,
and the mad rush after the full-voiced pack, and
then the wild excitement with which fence after
fence was taken, and then the determined charge at
the great ox-fence, from which many a gallant horse
and rider recoiled, but at which young Dayrell flew
with frantic gladness as he cheered his steed to fly
over it with a bound which — had the ground on the
other side been firm

On the other side of that fence, the next moment,
after a few struggles, rider and horse lay still. One
never moved again.

"This is a sad business."

What ? "

Oh, haven't you heard ? But you won't hear
now, if you care to attend only to that wretched
little monkey "

"The monkey, his tricks, his quasi-human intelligence,
his position in creation — I mean, in Evolution
— his probable close relationship to ourselves,
all afford me profound instruction and amusement.
May not the weary tedium of human existence
be relieved by monkeys ? Else why should they
exist ? "

Thoughtless girl ! You forget your theology.
Have you not just indicated the raison d'etre f Without
them, could ive have been ? But it's hardly a
time for fooling, when a bright, young, noble life, in
which we have all rejoiced, is suddenly struck down."
The speaker's voice became a little husky. " Haven't
you heard ? Young Mr. Wilfrid Dayrell, of the

Priory Ah, you are interested at last, are

you? But any misfortune to a near neighbour
ought "

Yes, yes, I know ; don't preach. What is it,
Frances ? "

Out hunting ; horse fell on him over an awkward
fence, legs crushed, face gashed — disfigured and
crippled for life. For two or three days they
feared his reason was gone — for ever."
" And he was not killed. Ah, well I So much
the worse for him."

The monkey received an extra amount of playful
attention, for a few minutes, from its young mistress,
and then with a slight well-acted yawn the lady
left the room, merely saying, '* Yes, that is indeed
a sad affair."

Ah," said her companion to herself, " I thought
so. Sad for more than one. I suppose it's true,
as mamma once said, that it takes a great deal to
kill a girl's regard for a Dayrell. Yet what is anyone's
trouble in this matter compared with that
of this poor DayreU's mother and sisters ? "
■ The speakers in that conversation were the two
cousins mentioned above, the mistress of the
monkey being also, as before mentioned, de facto
mistress of the noble mansion, in a drawing-room
of which,' looking out on a finely timbered park, the
above conversation took place.

The community of sympathy and interest which
had existed between Sir Michael and his daughter
during the hunting season while she was in her
teens, sadly diminished after that period, for if
truth must be told, she had at length, though still
extremely fond of riding, begun to regard that
national country-gentlemen's sport, fox-hunting, in

SO supremely ridiculous a light that now she never
would join the hunt. Moreover, she had angered
her father tremendously by sarcastic remarks
thereon, more than once, and the whole subject
thenceforth was tabooed. In the summer months,
however, they had a great deal of pleasant riding
together, though Frances, who was constitutionally
rather timid, did not often accompany them, for
they were given to sudden dashing escapades. That
young lady's mother, Mrs. Grrey, was just now away
in a distant county at the bedside of a suffering
married daughter.

Sir Michael came home from the fatal hunting-field
late in the afternoon, having waited at the
Priory till the provincial practitioner could give him a
report of young Dayrell's condition, and seen a
telegram dispatched to fetch an eminent surgeon
from London. Stella and her cousin thought they
had never seen him look so miserable.

In the course of a day or two, however, he
brought them word that the patient's life would
probably be spared, but that he would lose the use
of his lower limbs.

Soon after this announcement, when the young
ladies were alone in the evening. Lady Stella broke
a long musing silence by saying abruptly, "What
can we do to cheer up his poor mother and sisters ?
We must try to do something. They are such near
neighbours." Her cousin agreed, and they discussed
plans accordingly. But nothing seemed at once

feasible and convenable. The professed object, of
course, was to bring some brightness to the homes
and hearts of the ladies as they watched and
tended the pallid and dejected sufferer, who lay
all day on a luxurious sofa by the fire-side. But
that sufferer himself may, possibly, have often been
in the foreground of their thoughts.

"I have it!" at last exclaimed the heiress. "The
best way to brighten up the women, of comes, is
to cheer up the young man. Xow don't you
remember what a mad passionate sort of interest
he always seemed to take in everything relating to
his old grandfather Dayrell, and especially in his
grandsire's recollection of Greece and the War of
Independence, and Lord Byron's heroic efforts and
martyr death ? "

Certainly I do," answered her cousin with a
flushing cheek. '* And I suppose that is what has
made this young man such an enthusiastic admirer
of Byron's poetry."

Aye, that — and a good deal more," replied
Stella musingly.

But," rejoined her cousin, " what makes him
such * a fond idolater ' of the hero of that funny
patchwork memoir of the Modern Bacchanal ? I
never could feel the least enthusiasm myself for the
mad-cap votary of Dionysus."

Could you not ? — now — really ? " said Lady
Stella, looking down at her cousin with a curious
mixture of affection and contempt. " What a misfortune

for — Mr. Charles Dayrell. Well, I confess I
did. . . . But then, Frances, you are too .young
to be ' all' evil.' We are not very much alike, are we,
dear ? And yet — and yet — I love you' she added,
as she threw her arms round her cousin's .neck.

'' Well, but you darling old ogre," said Frances
as soon as she was released, " What did this young
man know of his grandfather ? Could he ever have
seen him ? "

In that ' patchwork memoir,' as you disrespectfully
call it, but which seems so only to paper-knife
reviewers and the superficial eye (for one great
thought runs through the whole, finding its expression
in varied forms), perhaps you don't remember
how, very near the end, it is said that a friend who
knew Charles Dayrell well, and wished "

Yes, yes," said Frances, " I remember."

Well," continued Stella, " that young gentleman
lying there on the sofa at Aldclyffe Priory was the
Eton lad there mentioned, doted on by his grandsire,
and giving him in return a sort of romantic
love and worship before which even Greek and
Guerre idolatry grows pale."

*' I see," meekly replied the cousin. " And I think
I have heard all about it once or twice before. But
I really don't see why we are therefore to give ourselves
up to a study of old Mr. Dayrell because he
was young Mr. Dayrell's hero, or of this profligate
Lord Byron. I don't, indeed," she repeated, " in
spite of that withering frown of yours, or even that

disdainful smile. The world in general is not
bitten now with the Byron mania — so much the
better."

Fie on thee ! " exclaimed Stella, " cold and
undiscerning sceptic I The world, the shallow
fawning literary world has been bowing down in
slavish admiration many a day, before meaner idols,
who were not worthy to dust the pedestal on which
byron stands enthroned for ever. But that's not
the question."

*' Granted, granted. Smooth your ruffled plumes,
my dear. If you only want me to see that the
best thing we can do, if the doctor approves, and
his mother rises to the hint, is to arrange for a
few conversations, readings, &c., round the patient's
sofa, I agree at once, even to the extent of criticising
and renouncing Byron and all his works — and
I promise you I'll second your benevolent schemes."
" Benevolent ! Fudge ; have you ever known me
benevolent ? "

Not violently. Eather the other thing, in general,
I confess. But then why make such a pother about
this maimed young madman and his rather prosy
relations ? "

Because at this season of the year, with Parliament
just opened and all the men gone up to town,
the country may be wholesome — but — it is distinctly
dull; while, on the other hand, the unlucky lunatic
is — a poet."

Ah, I know too well you are poetical, if not

benevolent — romantic if not amiable. You never
creep out in the dark dull November evenings to call
on some poor goody — never feel a gentle interest in
gifted young suffering poets and painters "

"Do shut up your foolish twaddle, Frances. I'll
never confide to you again if you so pervert. , . Why,
what can you be dreaming of? I tell you you are
utterly mistaken. I have not — never had— a particle
of what is called * love ' for that poor young man —
even in " — and her voice trembled slightly — " even in
his better days,' as shop-keepers phrase it. But now,
of course, you dear silly dreamer, you can hardly
suppose the tender passion is very likely to be evolved.
Can't a girl feel a genuine interest in, a real attachment
to, one of the stupid sex without being *in
love ? ' " (the last words uttered in a tone of sublimest
scorn.) " But you read trashy sensational or
sentimental novels till your thoughts run on nothing
but all that foolery. Now, are you convinced of sin —
and — squashed ? "

"I don't feel a bit like it. Pity's a-kin to love."

"Well, you pity him, my fair coz —therefore, &c.
Allons, done I Take your candle and go to bed."

The thrust, though intended for a parry, had the
desired effect. For though cousin Frances hadn't
the slightest tender feeling except pity, and perhaps
never had, for poor Wilfrid Dayrell, she was nervously
sensitive, like many other young ladies, at being
chaffed about any particular young gentleman.

The doctor, on being consulted respecting visits from

the Manor, was in favour of a little mental excitement,
" if not too long continued. It would promote
the action of the liver, and assist vitality in the lower
limbs." The patient's mother and sisters were charmed
with the idea. So meetings for reading and conversation
were arranged. The heiress of Hurstleigh
Manor and her cousin planned the programme for
each reunion, and manifested the wisdom of the
serpent beneath the silky sweetness of the dove. They
commenced with judicious selections from "Elegant
Extracts," passing over the real gems in that delightful
but rather " mixed " repertory, and administering
lengthy supplies of " superior " dulness, until the
whole party were unmistakably bored, and the doctor
declared that these afternoon seances were positively
retarding his patient's recovery. Thereupon Lady
Stella confidentially suggested that it would probably
answer better if they could get young Mr. Darrell
to talk a little himself. " Ah, my dear," replied Mrs.
Dayrell with a sigh, " that would be very well if we
only knew what he would care to talk about. But
he has lost all his old interest in every subject under
the sun."

Even in himself ? " Stella asked — but not aloud.
To his mother she blandly answered — "Yes, but
not in what once was under the sun, and lived
in its light, diffused its light — and now," she added
to herself, " lives, some people think, in far brighter
light. . . I mean," she continued aloud, " the fine old
man — the bold, plucky, gallant, handsome old gentleman,

beloved at Eton and Oxford, in Greece and Whitechapel
! Ah, Mrs. Dayrell, we never now meet with,
young men equal to the old ones, do we ? But we can,
perhaps, hear a little about this particular patriarch.
Lead your suffering son to talk of his grandfather, and
see if his eye doesn't brighten, and his health improve
in spite of his medicine."

Yes, yes, my dear," replied Mrs. Dayrell, " you
have made a valuable suggestion."

Hit the gold, my dear," added the frivolous young
cousin softly — "just like the Son of Venus."

Young Dayrell's sunken eyes did brighten considerably
at the proposal, but still more when he heard
who had made it. Yet he felt and said he didn't
think he could '* do much in the talking-line."

** Then write what you have to say and read it tous,"
responded Stella, breaking her usually cold and
slightly cynical serenity, with unwonted vivacity of
expression, and making the sufferer on his couch turn
his eyes with momentary brightness on the speaker.

Presently, raising himself on his elbow, he
broke the silence by saying, with some emotion :

"Thank you all, very much. I will write what
I remember. It won't be much — and perhaps not
interest you — but it will pass the time."

As he lay back with a half-suppressed groan,
Stella gently replied:

"Nay, it till interest us if it helps us to
understand how ]Mr. Dayrell threw off the. weary
weight of life. You see, Mr. Wilfrid," and she

bent a little towards him, *' there is much that
delights us in those memoirs of his career, but
much also we cannot quite understand. Try and
enlighten us. I, for one, cannot at all believe in
the worship of Joy."

*uxor in the worship of anything else," said
Frances in a stage-whisper.

Yes," answered Stella, also in a low tone,
^' has not the great German impostor of whom
Carlyle learnt so much wisdom, taught us to believe
in 'the Worship of Sorrow ? ' "

"My grandfather," said Dayrell, with painful
effort, '^ certainly believed that worship was taught,
as Goethe truly said, in Palestine and Gethsemane
and I know he also believed it was a needful preliminary
to the Bacchantic dance."

"Well," replied Stella, *' it may be so. At all
events, I should like to be converted, and become
able to believe in anything in which that Oriel
graduate had profound faith sixty years ago. I
fear that the world, and we who are of the world,
have need of some faith or other. But nobody
seems to have much."

Leaning back on his pillows, Wilfrid Dayrell
wrote with a telegraph, day after day ; wrote
rapidly and persistently, till his mother had to
interfere. But the doctor declared they had found
something to do his young friend an evident
amount of good. The crippled body was being
revivified, as he wrote, by the sufferer's delight

in thinking that Stella would listen to it with
some amount of interest. But his first feelings
were not at all delightful. The poor maimed
cripple had to work off a whole Mount Ossa-pelion
of morbid, self-conscious wretchedness. He
seems from that surviving MS. quoted above to
have thought he could do this best by starting a
diary, which begins, accordingly, in the following
characteristic fashion : —

Journal by a « Spoiled Child,' and a Ruined
Spendthrift."

Well, I am writing as she bade me — but not
for her or any one else to see. I remember she
said, among other strange things, she wanted —
they wanted — to understand how my grandfather
learnt to throw off all this weary, weary weight
of life and ill that presses on us all so heavily.
But I can't help them. . . . She referred to
the letter written to ^'Dayrell's eldest grandson,
a remarkably fine Eton lad," &c. Ha, ha! There
are the words. Head them, oh, ye owls! till you,
like me, are sick of the sight. Was I a fine lad
then ? How the grinning fiends, who dog and
torture us, must enjoy that notion now! Perhaps
I had some " go " in me then ; and, like my
grandsire, could now and then show a few of
them the way on the river, or when the merry
curs were giving tongue with a breast-high scent;
and in later days I believe I rowed stroke in my

college boat, and was near pulling in the
University eight, and have ridden a dozen steeplechases,
and danced through the night, and been
in — love — ha, ha ! And now here I lie, maimed
for all my days. . . . Ah, my God, help me !
if there be a Grod. . . . Too late, too late.
. . There may be a Grod for others — not forme.
. . . Why is all this miserable farce, this
wretched, tantalizing pretence kept up any longer,
by which we are first induced to believe in a
loving Grod, and then in a cruel demon — giving
with one hand and filching or rending away with
the other? . . .

There was once a man named Charles Dayrell,,
who rode and ran, leaped, laughed, dined, fought,,
and danced, worshipped and rejoiced in worship,
loved and wooed, and was beloved again, for fifty
or sixty years in this glorious world — as he called
it — and his grandson longed, and craved, and'
strove to go and do likewise. And that lively
youth now lies at the gate of the temple '* called
Beautiful," crippled for life, and never a Peter
or John able or willing to take him by the
hand and say, " Else up and walk."

*****

The " Modern Bacchanal " (as the friend who
wrote Mr. Dayrell's memoirs somewhat indiscreetly,
though most appropriately, called him in his title-page)
thought he understood the character and
career of that marvellous Spanish knight, monk,

VOL. I. 6

and organizer, Ignatius Loyola, by sympathy — by
reflecting on what he himself might have become
had he been struck down like the Founder of the
Jesuits in early manhood. Aye, he might have
been as great a Christian organizer as Loyola, had
he, too, been crippled in his twenties ; would
have been in that case, I think. But Loyola
lived in the Ages of Faith, and my grandsire
breathed the air of the Revival of Belief, and was
filled full with what is called the " Christian life."
But the world in which I, too, once lived,
dreamed, worshipped, is now, for me, shattered
for ever, and with it has vanished every shred
of faith, hope, love. What now to me are the
glorious Grrecian myths, their gods and worship ?
Hunting, rowing, dancing, society in manifold
forms, chances of a political career — all gone ;
chance, even, of literary and poetic achievement,
for with the outward life has gone the inward
inspiration — even if I drag on existence — and with
them whatever little chance there was of one
day winning her love — gone, gone, utterly gone —
and for ever ! A score of manly young jackanapes
stay ! No fool, coxcomb, profligate, will have
any chance there — but — hut there are men worthy
even of her, who will woo her, and one of them
not in vain, while I lie here, till I'm carried out
in a box I

'* And the merry sound of her marriage bell
Will serve for the crippled dreamer s funeral knell.

. . I rather wonder now I let them keep me
alive to write this. Well, they say there's no fool
like an old one. If so, it is only because folly is so
natural to youth that nothing is then thought of it
else I think I should never have let the surgeon's
knife alone that night till it had gone across my
wind-pipe as well as into my bones. . . . How
remarkably consistent all this rhodomontade is with
the character and spirit of him whom I have had
for an example, as an infinite privilege — whom I have
loved, honoured, since I could first toddle — and with
a deeper reverence and affection than I care to prate
about now. . . . Yet — yet — Merciful Heaven ! he
was never struck down in mid career, in the midst
of health and strength and rejoicing life and power.
. . Is that true ? Not suddenly struck down,
I grant — but what was that letter written to me, at
Eton, to explain ? Something I could not understand
then — nor, it seems, now. He was not pulled
up at the age of five-and-twenty nor at sixty-four.
He was going the pace long after three-score years.
But a little later on, what then ? Yes, he lived to
see one activity after another taken from him — growing
weaker and weaker, till he sat like a helpless
log in his arm-chair — lived to feel all his sense of
enjoyment deadened, and at length destroyed — to
find all whom he loved most dearly leaving him
alone — those of his own generation all gone before
to the Dark Land . . . and this went on for four
or five years. Was not that, then, a harder trial

Q—2

than mine ? Heaven knows — not I. But I do know
he was cheerful, kindly, patient, sweet-tempered to
the last. . . . Why ? She has asked me " why ? "
and I am writing about myself instead of him.

February 27th. — She asked me to-day how I goton
with my " Recollections," and when I said that
egotism was painfully predominant and " blotted out
like a thick cloud " thoughts concerning one far
worthier to be written about than myself, she assured
me earnestly, may I not say tenderly? that my life
was so interwoven, she thought, with his, that I
must not shrink from speaking of myself. Kind
Angels ! I'll take her at her word. But it is hard,
bitter hard to be pitied . . . when I — wanted —
to be loved, . . . AVell, well, to be weak is
miserable ! We have it on the authority of an archfiend,
according to his biographer. Oh, ye gods and
fiends ! we know it in the bitterness of our own
souls without your telling. Weakness ! growing
weakness — feeling one power after another going from
you — feeling yourself more and more defenceless
against visible and invisible evils — against all the ills
around and within you — more helplessly dependent
on others — boring them at every turn till they must
long to see you under the sod, and you know yourself
to be despised as well as hated ! This is what
an old man has to face — the possibility, probability,
daily, hourly danger, of this, if not its actual reality.
. . . And I, at twenty-five, have to face it
n-ow ! . . .

But he my hero, was weak and not miserable —
not harassed by fears, nor tortured by the dislike,
hatred, or contempt of those around him. Coldhearted,
honoured, peaceful to the last — Charles
Dayrell — tell me how this was ! You loved me well,
I know, in your life-time, and would have done anything,
then, to make me a happier and better fellow.
I know, well, too, you would come back to me from
the ' echo-less shore,' if they would let you, to show
me now the way to strength and peace. But — too
late — too late. Oh why, if I must be crushed into
this helpless mass of clay, why was it not while you
were still living to teach me how to bear it ? or
why have I lived to face this lot alone ?

Let me look again at his friend's letter to me.
That friend knew him altogether — and he says —

Men's motives no doubt are usually mixed — and their moods change
with the changing tides. And large natures often overflow. Eut in
strong natures you will always find some predominating idea and desire,
good or evil. When your grandfather was young, he craved
passionately to get — when a little older to give — all of freedom, beauty,
and joy that could be gained or given. Grasping, eager, loving, filled
with marvellous life and energy, he then seemed to know neither rest
nor peace. But now that he is old and infirm, he rests calmly, lovingly
in Him who is "the Fountain alike of Energy and Peace." When
your faculties of body and mind, now so full of life, decay, may you,
like him, enter into your Rest'*

A friendly wish — and charmingly fulfilled. '' Faculties
of body and mind " have decayed — and pretty quickly
too. What has become of that " Eest " he wishes I
may enter into ? Ah, but then / have not lived a
useful and noble life of ceaseless toil for the welfare

•' Charles Dayrell, a Modem Bacchanal," p. 457.

of others, like the old hero of Oriel and the back
slums. / have done nothing to earn that Eest.
Herein lies the leaden weight of this curse of pain,
weakness, and decay that has fallen on me.

But I think there's something more said about
his rest and serenity in that memoir. Let me
look at it again. The writer declares that though
Charles Dayrell in his old age, "regarded himself
as utterly useless in the world, and had a hard
fight sometimes to avoid repining at his forced
inaction," his friends truthfully affirmed " that he
made their lives all the better and happier for
continuing to abide among them." Some of those
friends who had known him in the full rush of
his youth and manhood, could not comprehend his
quietness " and peace now. Those who knew that
strength " may be " made perfect in weakness,"
understood the matter ; and whether they did or
not, it is certain, I know, that he was peaceful,
cheerful, a blessing to all around him. And, look
here, they don't say this was because he had lived
a useful life. I know he himself never felt he had
been of much use in the world. It seemed to
him, I always thought, as if his plans and labours,
after all, had been little better than a series of
failures. True, he had worked very hard at everything
he took in hand. But so have I; both at
school and college, and since ; and though the time
was short it was all I had to work in. There must
have been some other and deeper cause, and I

suppose the words I have quoted point to the
quarter whence he gained his strength and peace.
But I never could enter much into his feelings
on what is called religion. He didn't talk to me
often on the matter. He always dreaded the
most distant approach to cant or priggishness, and
I think he saw I was not altogether in sympathy
with him about religious subjects. He knew my
father and mother had drifted a long way from his
own religious faith ; so he scarcely ever opened out
to me in that line. Perhaps it's a pity he didn't
maybe he's sorry now he didn't say more about
his own views. . . . But then he knew they had
read much more of so-called " Rationalistic "
theology, both German and English, than of orthodox
views, and agreed with it, too, a great deal
more than with the conclusions to which he himself
had been brought. Hence, I am sure he
thought it would be wrong to influence me, and
was afraid of interfering with their influence, rightly,
no doubt, while I was a mere boy; yet he might
have spoken to me more than he did when I had
gro^vn up and had gone to college. But I didn't
give him much chance. And now — and now — /
am sorry too. ." Strength made perfect in weakness
" — a wonderful, very wonderful saying ! I
ought to become uncommonly strong at that rate,
for heaven knows I am weak enough — and oh,
very, very weary ! Day after day, week after week,
lying here — helpless, foolish. And he, under the

same privations, rested calmly, lovingly in Him
who is the Fountain at once of Energy and
Peace"*

Yes, to him, possibly — but to me the fountain of
weakness, misery, restlessness, despair . . . He had
done his work, and might rest contented. But I
had not even begun mine, when I was struck into
this frightful grey - beard dotage ! How can I
rest " in the author of it ?

Is it then, chiefly because I shall be unable todo
a stroke or two of good work in the world, that
I am now whining and groaning over my mishap ?
Or, is it not rather because I shall never enjoy the
world and its thousand pleasures ? What if I amfh
miserable because there is no happiness left for me
on earth. . . . ?

Hark to Carlyle—" Foolish Soul. . Art thou
then nothing other than a Vulture, seeking after
somewhat to eat ; and shrieking dolefully because
carrion enough is not given thee? Close thy Byron ;
open thy Goethe.^^

Pooh, pooh, thou Nineteenth century prophet.
Thou didst not half understand thy Byron, and I
don't quite believe in thy Goethe. Thou mayest truly,
*' there is in men a Higher than Love of Happiness "
but falsely that " Man can do without Happiness,"
whatever he may find instead. That other hero-prophet,
he of " the golden prime," and he also, " the
modern Bacchanal" of a later day who worshipped
Cunning. " Essay on Fenelon."'

that Joy bringing Son of Semele, are we to desecrate
and fling down that altar and renounce for ever the
worship of Gladness ? " Because thou art virtuous,
&c., &c. ? " Yet I remember once when that
disciple of Dionysus was looking back on his past
life — (how it all comes back on me !) — we were
standing together on the Malvern Hills, to the top
of which he had come up in a pony-chaise, looking
over to the far west where the sun had set in soft
serene beauty — as I xDnce saw it in Richmond Park
I remember how sadly he said half to himself,
Aye, I loved the world well — too well." — " Is that.
Sir," said I presently, but in a low voice, for I
feared a little asking him — "what is meant by
being worldly-minded ? " He didn't answer at first,
and then he said with a great sigh, "Yes — because
1 didn't love with my whole heart Him who made
the world and all its beauty and joys, all that made
me rejoice in them and should have made me rejoice
in Him. All other worship would have been right if
only that worship had been first and deepest." I
remember I became so much interested in what he
said then and afterwards, that after each conversation
I wrote down all I could recollect ; and I see
that I next asked him how he knew that he
deserved such heavy condemnation. He answered
with a kind of pensive dreamy smile, still looking to
the sunset, " Because the first thing I thought of
in the morning, always, was what enjoyment I
should get that day. . It was very long before

my early or later thoughts were how I could best
serve or please God. . . . And let me tell you, my
boy," he continued, putting his hand kindly on my
head, " one's first thoughts on waking and rising area
mighty good test of your habitual character and
tendencies. For then, you see, your will has scarcely
come into play, and you are more under the influence
of habit. . So look well to your waking
morning thoughts, my lad. . . . My habit of mind,
I have seen clearly enough, was then not to think
of God, or to find any happiness in Him. I revered
Him, tried to obey Him — but my happiness, the
great desires of my life — ah, they were far away.
. . Yet sometimes I saw all this and knew it was
wrong. And that was one reason, my lad, why I
longed so deeply to see God under brighter, more
beautiful and tender aspects than the usual
theology supplies. For I know I did sometimes
want, very greatly, to love Him better, and (as
the old Book says, you know), ' to have Him in
all my thoughts.' . . . Yet I didn't do it . .
until, until I was laid aside. . . ." And then he
drew a heavy sigh. Did he not judge himself too
hardly? . . .

March 1st. — Oh, how those words come back to me
now as clearly as if I heard them yesterday ! . . .
Just so it has been with me. Is that, then, why I
am lying here, helpless, miserable? Would God,
then, have me come to Him now, in my youth instead
of letting me neglect Him till I'm old ?

One day after that last conversation, I remember
sitting in his study and asking him if it was nota
trying time when he began to realize his growing
weakness, and to know he was getting less and
less able to work and enjoy life and go about ashe
used to do.

Trying I Yes. At first I resented that increasing
weakness as a cruel wrong. I remember once
explaining in a way that I believe surprised as well
as distressed a dear friend beside me (for you see,
Wilfrid, I had played the hypocrite well, and pretended
to be so peaceful and resigned) — *What a
life this is I Eating, drinking, sleeping — nothing
else — Shame on it I ' Then my friend said, ' Nay,
you still enjoy reading and being read to.' I can't
tell you, my lad, how ashamed I felt of myself
when I thought all this over in the silent night-watches.
For then I saw how wonderfully and
beautifully Grod was arranging my life, and I
seemed to hear Him saying to me, 'It is in this
state of bodily helplessness. My child, that your
soul's life is being best developed.' Then I saw
that I was being brought far nearer to Grod in that
state than I ever was or could be when in the full
flow of mere physical life and mental energy."

'' Is it not. Sir," said I, " something the same at
the end of life, then, as at the beginning ? We
don't think a baby is wasting time or living a
useless life when only eating, drinking and sleeping,
because it is preparing by those means for a

far nobler life. I'm sure you are preparing now
for a glorious existence. . . ." My grandfather
turned to me with one of those looks I can never
forget, saying, " Eight, dear boy, right. . . Ah,
Wilfrid, don't forget all this when your turn comes.
Watch against that terrible temptation to rebel
against God's will and ways. For it often is a
desperate temptation ! But there's no peace, no
love, no rightness of any kind till we've conquered
it." And I'm very thankful now, more than
I can just say, that I once asked him how it was
to be conquered. For he answered, " Only by continued
and persevering prayer for Grod's holy spirit,
followed up by strenuous, determined efforts of will . .
only by absolute unreserved self-surrender to God,
perfect acquiescence in His appointments, such as
the old Puritans in virtue of their Calvinistic training
manifested." " But," I asked, " how can one
learn to do this and gain strength and ivill to doit
? " I cannot describe the pathetic solemnity with
which he answered, "In the Easter moonlit night,
in the Garden of Gethsemane, and by his help who
conquered then ! "

Not that day but soon after, when he was out ina
wheel-chair, I ventured to refer again to what he
had said about living such a useless life — merely eating,
drinking, sleeping, and, I added, " You hardly
realize, I think, how much you are doing for all
who love you merely by living and receiving their
love. Think, dear Sir, what a gap you would

leave in our lives if we could no longer come and
wish you good morning, and say ' How d'ye do,
Grandpa ? ' or read to you, or help you to do anything
you want. Is it not being very useful when
you make us all love you as we do, and make us
happy merely to see you?"

'dear lad," he answered, "it's fine to hear you
chatter in that way — and I hope it's all true — for
it makes living more endurable — and happy."

I thought as he seemed inclined to converse, I
would take the opportunity (for I always thought
each time I talked with him might be the last) of
bringing up again that point of surrendering our
wills to the will of God ; and with, I fear, something
of a boy's petulance and perversity, hinted that
there seemed to be something unmanly and mean
in such unqualified sacrifice of one's own will to the
will of another, however great and good He might be.
*' There are three motives," he answered, " which may
rightly impel us to do so, without loss of manliness.
First, when we submit to force onajeure because
there is no reasonable chance of effectual resistance,
and when to attempt it would only involve others
as well as ourselves in ruin. To submit to an unrighteous
power, which it is not our duty to obey,
and which exercises rule over us for its own selfish
ends and to our harm, is not manly, is base when
we may, can, and should resist I " And I saw the
old man's eyes gleam and flash, as, I imagine,
memories of Greek, Italian, Hungarian patriots.

crowded on his mind. But as he did not at first
continue, I said under my breath, *' And the
other two motives ? " Then he continued slowly
and with gravity, " The second is when we
yield our wills to a wiser, better, nobler will than
our own because we feel or know it to be so. We
may do this merely because we think it will be best
for our own interests, Wilfrid, or because we know
it to be our duty. But the highest, noblest motive
is that without which the act of self-surrender, of
yielding up our will to another being is not perfect,
not wholly blessed — I mean the impulse of Love."

"But even that motive," I ventured to say,
*' would not be complete, would it ? unless we
yielded because we felt it a duty as well as because
we loved Him to whom we yielded ? "

Right, my lad, right again I " he answered with
more than usual earnestness. " Love needs the conscience
to make it perfect. Who taught you
that ? "

You, Sir," I replied, as he again patted my head
affectionately. " You praise me for hitting with a
shaft feathered from your own wing."

Then I won't praise you," he answered gently,
as he leant back in his wheel-chair, looked at me
for a moment with those wonderful big eyes of his,
then closed them and added, " I won't praise you,
Dey boy — only love you."

How was it — oh heavens !— how did it come
about that with such a teacher I couldn't learn the

lessons which would have saved me from despair —

from madness in the hour of wreck and ruin ?
* * *

One other scene I find described in those notes.

I couldn't get this idea of '• Worldliness," as
something vile and bad, into its right place. I
had seen my father and mother smile at the clergyman
for condemning it. Yet I knew my grandfather
denounced it. So I said to him one day
when I was asking about his youth, " But, Sir,
surely you were not wrong to love and enjoy the
world so intensely as you did. You were, must
have been, wholly right in that." It was sometime
before he answered. I had sent the old man's
memory wandering over the scenes of his sunny
youth. At first I thought he was dozing, but I soon
perceived he was more vividly awake than usual.

*' Aye, aye I " he exclaimed at last with a deep
sigh — more of thankfulness, I think, than sorrow.
'* Yes, by Bacchus and Artemis and all the gods
of the early Dawn I The world was meant to beloved
and rejoiced in, and honoured, and in the antique
sense, worshipped ! — in youth — in the 'Juvenis
Mundi,' and in the youth of every human
being, and of all creatures on the earth . . .
But are we to be always children ? That old Greek
view of life and Xature — oh, how beautiful I Lovely
as the grace of dancing youth and maiden — as the
Auroral dawn of a summer's holiday — as the gambols
and gaiety, as the ^ Play-impulse,' of every

innocent happy young creature on God's earth. But
not — meant — to last. Beautiful, and transitory."

Then he took up a volume of the Contemporary
Review and presently continued :

A splendid critic, writing here on ' Goethe,' and in
reference to the charge often brought against him of
being simply a ' Great Heathen,' says, * He provoked
[that charge] and almost claimed it in his sketch of
Winckelmann, where after enthusiastic praise of the
ancients, and of Winckelmann as an interpreter of
the ancient world, he inserted a chapter entitled,
Heidni?'ches,' which begins thus : * This picture of
the antique spirit, absorbed in this world and its
good things, leads us directly to the reflexion that
such excellences are compatible only with a heathenish
way of thinking.' . . . Ah, we are all of us
little heathens when young, and not about to die.
But, my boy, what say you ? Would you be a
heathen and a child all your life ! Do you wish you
had never got beyond a go-cart and a rattle ? Pooh !
When Goethe felt like that — sage, philosopher, poet,
sweet singer and many-sided mighty mind, as he
was — he saw but half of man's nature, powers,
destiny. Stunted, crippled soul was his, in this
world, after all. He knows more now. We grow
aged, feeble, crippled, in the body, that we may
lind our soul's life and strength, our joy and peace
in God, in the things that are unseen, and —
eternal — in the religion of the Cross, which means
the fulness of Love, * the fulness of God.' And

those words come back to me now, and find me —
what ? A stunted soul, in a crippled body."

Soon after my grandfather had said those last
words in a very quiet way, he suddenly exclaimed
with more energy than I thought possible, " But
after all, let us not forget that we know and
understand a great deal more about the Eternal,
and come much closer to Him by self-sacrifice and
faithful effort to please, and serve, and love Him,
than by any amount of mere emotional transport
or aesthetic enjoyment of the Beautiful and Sublime,
even though we closely identify all that beauty and
glory with Grod. Nevertheless, I am sure that
emotional rapture is infinitely good and blessed.
Of both I would say, * This should ye do, and not
leave the other undone.' But I have left so much
undone."

Then I thought I would tell him he had a right
to remember how constantly he had been always
trying to make others happier than their poor lot
seemed to permit — genuine, philanthropic work it
seemed to me.

True," he answered, as I thought somewhat
reluctantly, "I did think a great deal how I could
help others, as well as myself, to enjoy existence.
. . But I fear enjoyment was the grand thing
in my estimation "

"And freedom," I added.

Yes ; freedom, as the necessary condition of
enjoyment, and the enjoyment was all to be of a
VOL. I. 7

pure and noble character," he continued. " But
still it was a worship of Joy, perhaps an idolatrous
worship. And yet I know that I always wanted to
make it lead up to, unfold, cherish a deeper and
mightier love of God than the religious world
generally seems to possess. . . . But, with regard
to what you call my philanthropic work, we needn't
say much about that. It was all done on the lines
that most pleased myself. Still," murmured the old
man half to himself, as if fatigued with talking,
still it was a right and good thing — I know it
as well now on the edge of the grave as at bonny
eighteen — to try and help folks, especially poor
hard-working folks, to enjoy life, and so to believe
in the love of God and the kingdom of His dear
Son."

I asked him on one other occasion, whether when
his great and terrible trouble came upon him, and
his wife was taken from him, he felt that his faith
and trust were strong enough for the strain.

No," he answered, " not at first. I felt swept
away from all anchorage, could not realize God's
love at all, nor get reconciled to Him and His
chastening. . . . Ah, those were dark days, but
He brought me out of them. Though I turned
against Him, he bore with it all, and brought me
back to Himself lovingly, gently— so that after a
little while I bent my will to His — wholly. . .
It was during this struggle I first fully understood
that wonderful passage in Francis Newman's book.

The Soul' — a book which you ought to read, my
boy, some day — in which he says that for true and
perfect piety, * the soul must become a woman.'
It was only when the thought came
sweeping through me, one most miserable night,
that I ought to yield and did yield myself wholly
up to God and His loving righteous will, in
adoring love and trust, not in my own strength,
but yet, long intervals, as our Lord Jesus Christ
did in Gethsemane, that I gained the peace which
nothing afterwards could take away." He spoke
with some solemnity, and I didn't like to add
another word ; but the next day, referring to that
quotation from Francis Newman, I said, "Yet you
have often told me. Sir, there is a lot of spiritual
fighting to be done, and that needs the masculine
element ? " " Yes ; indeed," he answered, " plenty
of that, with the devil and all his imps of mischief
and sin hammering away at us. Aye, aye,
you must conquer your peace on many a battlefield.
But I was speaking — Newman was writing —
only of the soul's relation to God — not the devil.
Never forget, my lad, that perfection is gained
only by the union of both the masculine and
feminine elements of character." So I pondered
those things in my heart.

Well, these and other conversations I had with
my grandfather occasionally, were an unspeakable
privilege. But I feel now they brought with them
a terrible curse. For how have I benefited by

7—2

them ! Privileges bring proportionate duties and
responsibilities. And well and faithfully, forsooth,
have I not availed myself of mine ! " As with a
sword in my bones, my enemies " — say, rather, my
friends — "reproach me." . I hear only the
echo of a desolate cry, " Where is thy God ? thy
Deliverer ? "

I wrote, and copied out, all the foregoing from
time to time, in a few intervals of freedom from
pain ; and when I had finished I marvelled greatly
I had undertaken to furnish any recollections of
the talk of a man so infinitely above me. But as
I told my little circle of hearers, before I read
what I had written, those " Recollections " of his
life and religious theories published some time
back — called "Charles Dayrell : A modern Bacchanal,
or the Worship of Joy " — were written, no doubt
with excellent intentions and a competent knowledge,
but, perhaps, not always with a sufficient
apprehension or lucid explanation of my grandfather's
theory and aim of existence. Hence, they
have not been understood as they would be by those
who conversed with him in his latter days. For
the world goes now at a killing pace, and doesn't
stop to guess riddles, or interpret parables. But
the clergyman, Mr. Rivers, from whose letter tome
I quoted above, told me a good deal more of
his friend, which I noted down at once. He also
gave me sundry ]MSS., so that I fancy I am
better read in the subject than I often was m

the papers set us in the Oxford " Schools." I
specially noted the following remarks by the good
parson, who, by-the-bye, wanted me, when I
took my degree, to become a parson myself. I
thought at the time I wasn't quite such an old
woman, yet, as to entertain that idea. But these
matters look rather differently to me now. It
might be, I don't know, but it might be for me,
now, a beautiful and blessed life, if only I ever
became worthy and fit for it in body and soul.
But I have no strength in the one, and little
faith in the other. The work itself is very noble
and many of the workers. This very man was
worthy of being Mr. DayrelFs friend, for he was
a thoroughly hearty muscular old Christian, had
pulled well in his college " eight," and shone
in his " eleven," was utterly free from humbug,
or cant, *' starch," or " bounce," and has gone in
all his life for manly sports, as well as earnest
praying and preaching. Wei], this man, I say,
shortly before his death, answered a question of
mine one day, thus :

*rit always seemed to me that the main thought
of the so-called ' Modern Bacchanal,' your grandfather,
which indeed possessed him with magnificent
and over-mastering power — impelling him to
spend his life in giving it utterance by every act
and word in his power — was this : He well knew
to how large an extent all Joy, even satisfaction,
with one's own condition, tends in our days of

strength and health to lead us away from God
to make us, in fact, feel independent of Him.
Yet he also believed that there was no permanent
satisfaction and joy apart from God, that we are
made for infinite and eternal life in Him, for a
divine life of Love and Joy in Him, and with
Him, and that we find, therefore, only bitterness
and death, ' a great and terrible wilderness, fiery
serpents, and scorpions, and drought,' in our wild
passionate strivings after pleasure and freedom.
Nevertheless, he felt sure that God gave mankind
such abundant joy in the Youth of the World,
and evermore still showers it down upon us in
happy personal childhood, in order to lead us to
long for it, to aspire towards it, as one great end
of our existence. How then are we to

' . . . . . . impart

The purity of heaven to earthly joys,
Expel the venom and not blunt the dart — '

how make it safe to enjoy, how make that enjoyment
minister to our upward progress, and nourish our
higher life instead of cherishing selfishness, sensuality,
and living without God in the world ? "

Now, I don't mean I understood all this when the
clergyman said it, nor when I first began to try and
work out more fully my grandfather's creed ; but
on looking back I can see that these and other
thoughts which were gradually '' borne in " upon
me, trace the lines in which, though not with
much success, I tried to live and work. But for

years after I had left Eton, I did not, could not,
look at the matter in what is called a religious light
or, rather, I suppose, in what is really the Christian
light. It may, must laye been a religious light, I
think.' For if the cactus of the early Greeks and
Persians, Hindoo, and other heathen folk, especially
of the poets and dreamers in every age and clime, was
religious, if as Mr. Dayrell so strenuously maintained,
the whole inner life of his modern hero, Lord Byron,
was intensely religious, if Professor Seeley's deeply
interesting book on **' Natural Religion " is right and
true, then no doubt my mind and heart, nearly my
whole inner and outer being, were filled with what he
called and what I know was, religious life. But
Christian I — no. I haven't come to that yet, by a
long shot — perhaps never shall. Hence it will not
seem strange that with my ardent longing to do some-justice
to my grandfather's theory and aim of life, and
with all my own unceasing speculations concerning
a life of pure and perfect gladness, freedom, love, there-constantly
mingled the thoughts and aspirations, the
poetry and passion, the raptures, the errors, the misery
and remorse, of that great poet just named, towards
whose wonderful soul the " Modem Bacchanal *' felt
drawn with such irresistible power. True, Charles
Dayrell merely shared the common madness of his
day. Since then there laye, indeed, been regularly
recurring periods of indifference and dislike, indignation,
or hatred, towards Lord Byron. Witness
Carlyle's sneers and the virulent attacks on him of

recent rival and jealous poets, who not only were
unworthy to loose his shoe-strings, but who often
had not the excuse for their censures which writers
of high moral purity and piety undoubtedly sometimes
had. "Action and reaction," we were told
at school, " are equal and contrary ; " and the enthusiastic
admiration of one generation is the natural
precursor of the indifference or antagonism of the next.

But returning to my " muttons," which I can often
neither lead nor drive, when I had got as far as this
in my journal, I told my kind little circle one sunny
afternoon, I had done as they bade me, giving a
side glance at the Lady Stella, who returned my look
with a pretty little saucy toss of her head and, I
thought, with a pleasant smile.

That's very good of you, so far, Mr. Dayrell,"
she said, " but now are you going to burn your
journal?"

Probably you will wish to do so, if I begin reading
any of it aloud."

My bashful humility was voted a weak pretence,
and it was clear they meant to run the risk. So I
read portions of it, here and there, skipping most
of my melancholy — mad — ruminations, but giving all
I had written about my grandfather. When I had
finished, there was a deep silence — like that which the
poets say may be felt. I know I felt it, for the
evening shades had gathered round us, and I thought
perhaps they were all asleep, or I might have bored
them to death ; and I wished for a moment I had

never written or read a line of the wretched rubbish
then in my hands. Presently I heard a long-drawn
breath — not a snore, but a deep sigh from one of
the party, and my mother and sisters whispered
thanks ; and then the voice that used to be to me
the sweetest on earth, yet which had often jarred on
me so painfully, just murmured, "Thank you very
much. It is very interesting ; " and the voice was soft
and gentle, and it added, " Mr. Dayrell's reading is like
music, is it not ? " So I was satisfied for the nonce.
My sleep was very sweet to me that night.

,>^-PMmjM-^

■ii^

The next day, which was a Saturday, the home
party all declared I hadn't looked so bright and
well since my accident, and that it was quite
clear I must go on writing — and reading what I
wrote. I was about to reply when the door
opened and that jolly young duffer, Fred
Ellerslie, was announced. He had come to stay
till Monday. I was not the only one of the
party delighted to see him. He was one of the
best and most sensible of all my old college
cronies, and the first to come down to the Priory
after my accident to inquire and sympathize. His
decidedly cynical turn of mind and manner concealed
a lot of kind generous feeling, and there
was something in his cool, self-contained pleasantry
and quiet, genial, though rather shallow philosophy,
that gave the combined impression of sunshine and
a bracing sea-breeze. So he was always welcome,
though he could not often spare time to come.
After a while, I began to think he specially enjoyed
talking to one of my sisters, and didn't
wonder if her eyes brightened when he came. The
mere sight of him did one good.

Of course he joined politely in the demand my

mother and sisters were making on me to read
some more of my Journal. I affirmed that I had
nothing more worth reading, when the door again
opened, and Lady Stella with her cousin were
ushered in. When they understood the question
discussed, they both declared that they had quite
made up their minds that I must now give them
some insight into Mr. Dayrell's vehement admiration
for Lord Byron, and show them how they
were to reconcile all that they knew of the one,
with his admiration and worship of the other.

Do you then really care," I said, *' to know anything
more about Byron ? 1 thought nobody knew
or honoured him now."

Then I for one am nobody," replied Stella. " I
admire him more than I can tell you, and I want
to hear all you can tell me, or at least read to us
all, on that subject. Especially I should like to
hear that lecture (if it won't bore Mrs. Dayrell),
which I think you said you had found among your
papers. I mean the one he gave at Oriel."

Yes, I have it. I believe it was taken possession
of by that same friend of my grandfather's who
wrote me the letter I read you, Mr. Rivers. I
know he was present and heard it delivered. At
all events he gave it to me shortly before he
died."

Please read it to us." Once again the momentary
earnestness, almost eagerness, with which Stella
asked this, was such a contrast to her usual nonchalance

that it went to my heart, and almost took
away my breath. But I was in a weak, foolish
state, then at all events, if not all my life. And if
nobody else in the whole world had cared about
Byron what would it matter ? But her interest in
him and his poetry made me sure that some others
would feel as she did. And certainly it did me a
power of good, reading to her ; for she sat listening
so absorbed that her work was dropped after a time,
and it struck me that she shaded her face that we
might not see how much she was interested. Before
beginning to read, I explained that the writer
described the whole scene, and Mr. Dayrell's performance
of his task that evening at Oriel, now
nearly seventy years ago, just as he witnessed it. He
said that St. Austell had kindly consented to take
the chair, and that Arnold and Milman were both
present. He also mentioned that my grandfather
had written out his lecture, but gave it extempore
from a few notes or lyiemoriter, and that the MS.
which had come into Mr. Rivers' hands was what I
was about to read, with that gentleman's own
descriptions. I added that it seemed to me
eloquent ; but if the ladies thought its style bombastic,
they must remember it was delivered by an
enthusiastic young undergraduate to men chiefly
as youthful as himself, and that the enthusiasm of
youth was sometimes nearer the truth than the
chilling criticisms of age.

I am not hitting at you, mother," I added, " for

you are youthful and blooming as ever, while the
rest of the party are decidedly juvenile."

Lady Stella looked as if she knew of whose criticisms
I was most in awe. Then when the tea-table
was cleared, I fired away.

The Clergyman's Account of His Friend and
Fellow Student's, Charles Dayrell's, Lecture
ON Byron at Oriel in 1818.

Much less of course was then known about the
personal history of the noble poet than is the case
now ; and I remember that my friend Charlie had
to begin by telling his audience a little concerning
Byron's fortunes and early career. He described
some of his early school experiences, just glanced
at his mothers temperament and character, at the
difficulties attendant on the want of an adequate
income to support the dignity of his title, his first
attempt at versification, his treatment by the press,
especially by the Edinburgh Review. Then the
lecturer glanced at Byron's first Continental travels,
and particularly dwelt on his visit to Grreece, his
ardent sympathy with the oppressed inhabitants of
that glorious land, and with the victims of oppression,
not only in far-off climes, but with his ^vi'etched
and unromantic countrymen at home, especially the
Nottingham Frame-breakers. He adverted to Byron's
speech in the House of Lords on the 27th February,
1812, on behalf of those unfortunate and deluded
men, read a few extracts from it, and showed what

a genuine spirit of human brotherhood glowed in
his heart and shone forth in every part of that
eloquent composition. Then he dwelt on the poet's
singularly quick and ready sympathies, with " all
sorts and conditions of men," on his warm and
generous affections, on the strength and ardour of
his youthful friendships ; on the readiness with
which he yielded to the high and pure influence of
such men as Mr. Beecher, who had rebuked him for
the rather licentious tone of one or two of the
poems in the first collection he prepared for the
press. "I can imagine," said the young *advocates
diabolic,' as doubtless some considered the speaker,
no greater proof of Lord Byron's recoil at that early
age, from all that his conscience, when roused, told
him was degrading, than the fact that in one of
the most exciting moments of his early life, when
just on the eve of sending forth to the world his
first poetic venture, he actually destroyed the whole
impression, rather than that the objectionable poem
should go forth to the world.

But," he continued, " I know from many sources
of information that the evil in Lord Byron's character
and life which we must all deeply deplore, and which
we have no choice but unsparingly to denounce, is
not the vice of a degraded sensualist, of a man who
willingly gives himself to what is evil, but of one
who is continually aspiring to a nobler and purer life.
of one who, owing to the misfortune of his early
training, to the absence of high moral and religious

influences among those around him ; and, above all,
in consequence of the extraordinary force of his own
splendid, nay, awful endowments, is at intervals
suffering degradation and defeat instead of realizing
his nobler dreams. I venture to say all this because
I think that a just appreciation of Lord Byron's
character is essential for a profitable consideration of
Lord Byron's poetry — essential certainly to that estimation
of both which I presume to bring before
you in following up the speculations and fancies to
which many of you gave so kind an encouragement
last year. (Applause.) This man seems to me to
supply us with what we need for the completion of
those investigations into the Dionysiac cult, chiefly
and abundantly by what in him and his works we
have so reverently to admire — partially by what we
have so sternly and sorrowfully to condemn. If it
is well for us to proclaim a new and wider view of
the meaning of religion and worship, of the worship
of Xature, and of the Author of Xature — a truer and
more adequate view of the glorious Gospel of the
living Christ — it is not only well, but imperatively
required of us that we should understand what we
can from this great Apostle of Freedom, of the worship
of Beauty, of Xature, and of Love."

I could see that some of Dayrell's audience, during
these latter sentences, watched the chairman's face
with curiosity, and others with anxiety. St. Austell
himself, however, betrayed little of the uneasiness
which probably he felt, as he began to doubt whether

he had done quite right in taking the chair. Nevertheless,
he had great faith in Dayrell, and felt that,
if necessary, he could protest at the close of the
lecture against any heresies, moral or theological,
too flagrant to pass unnoticed. It was some satisfaction
that such eminent clerical gownsmen as Mr.
Milman and Mr. Thomas Arnold were sitting beside
him, and were almost equally compromised with
himself. But those gentlemen's countenances showed
signs so far of only unqualified satisfaction and deep
interest in all the young orator's remarks.

The speaker himself, unconscious of the perturbation
he was causing in some of his hearers, and wholly
lost in his subject, growing more earnest and impassioned
as he proceeded, continued thus :

It seems to me that Lord Byron's poetry, his
whole life and soul, are inspired with an intense
and passionate desire for three of the greatest blessings
revealed to man by the Infinite Father, viz.,
Freedom, Beauty, Love, and less ardently (unconsciously
as it were, and too often with a cry of despairing
pain) for that Joy which comes from admiring, worshipping,
possessing what is grand and glorious, beautiful,
ennobling, loving, and lovely. The poet's moral
and spiritual life seems, in its essence, to be a fiery
ceaseless aspiration after these blessings ; and I believe
he has been sent among us that we also may be
helped to aspire towards them, each of us according
to our capacity. See, first, how this passion for
Freedom glows in him, and is kindled by him in us

through page after page of some of the finest passages
of modern poetry. ^ I am not now venturing to express
either approval or censure of the particular forms in
which he manifests his desire to pass beyond the daily
round of ordinary life, to range with unfettered power
over lake and mountain, through distant lands and

*' ' O'er the glad waters of the dark Blue sea,

Our thoughts as boundless and our souls as free,' — •

or the loftier ardour he manifests, to rise above the
bounds of human existence — his longing to soar into
higher and vaster realms of being.

It would occupy far too much of your time if I
were to quote passages from his writings in illustration
of the thoughts now thrown out for your
consideration ; but if they are not familiar to any
of those present they will find it an interesting
study to search for them in his works. I have
already reminded you of his generous sympathy
with the enslaved and the oppressed, how earnestly
he showed that his desire for Freedom was not for
himself alone."

[Here I remember interrupting myself by saying :
"As a striking confirmation of what my grandfather
there urges, let me quote the following fine
passage from the recent admirable sketch of Byron
in the last edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica
by Professor Minto, of Aberdeen, I am told. He
has been speaking of Byron's sympathies with the
oppressed in all ages, and then adds that his
ardent battle-cry for freedom in the first and
VOL. I. 8

second cantos of Ghilcle Harold rang through this
country like a clarion peal. And in a luxurious
selfish age, when it was becoming the fashion to
sneer at all generous struggles for liberty, to cringe
and truckle to insolent oppression and aristocratic
tyranny in high places, Byron strode forth on the
side of the oppressed, and has become the greatest
preacher of Liberty and Brotherhood which this
age has produced.' Then resuming the reading, I
continued :]

Who does not remember Byron's eloquent
tribute to the heroism of the Spanish peasants,
and especially of their women in the 
struggle of that heroic people against the
Corsican despot ? And who can doubt that those
immortal strains of mingled grief, indignation, and
stirring martial appeal to the enslaved descendants
of Themistocles, Miltiades, Leonidas, to those who
inherit the language, the literature, the name and
fame of Homer and Plato, of Sophocles, aeschylus,
Euripides, Pericles, will at last rouse them also to a
final and victorious struggle with their cruel
licentious tyrants ? (applause). Yes, a time will
come when the oppressed of every nation will recognize
what they owe to this great poet, and the
meaning of his life and writings will one day be
understood.

' Yet, Freedom, yet — thy banner torn, though flying,
Streams like the thunder-storm against the wind.
Thy irumpet-Toice though broken now and dying,
The loudest yet the tempest leaves hebind. "

(Here the applause broke out again, and the
chairman, interposing, suggested that as the address
was rather a ** Concha ad ceram " than to a large
popular audience, it might be better to reserve the
applause, which he was sure would be well deserved,
till Mr. Dayrell had concluded his remarks,
whereupon the speaker continued :)

*' Selfish worldlings, mocking at all enthusiasm,
and pointing to errors and inconsistencies in
Byron's character and life, which we so deeply
lament, may claim him for one of their own base
crew; but, after all, the critic is right who has
exclaimed that 'in Byron the pulse of heroism beats
beneath the garb of the cynic' For though the
eagle may have once and again stooped to the
dunghill, and in moments of degradation have
seemed to scoff at the sun, it is an eagle still, and
will soar aloft again, above all baseness and evil, upto
his native skies. But indeed this passionate
thirst for Freedom may be seen in Byron's poetry
wherever he feels inspired by the divine aflQatus of
the Goddess, the Spirit of Nature whom he worships
so enthusiastically and loves so devotedly. It is
when he gives himself with entire self-abandonment
to the beautiful and sublime influences of Nature
that Ure also feel carried out of ourselves by his
aspirations, and long to range far, far beyond the
limits of our own poor mortal state. I think it
is in these desires and impulses that we find an
explanation of what is otherwise so mysterious in

8—2

this devoted lover of Freedom — I mean his sympathy
with, qualified admiration for, the greatest tyrant
of the present, almost of any age — Napoleon
Buonaparte. Doubtless at one time Lord Byron
looked on him as so many others once did, as the
apostle of Liberty, the champion of oppressed
nationalities — all the more because of the tyrannical
and priest-ridden character of the governments with
whom he warred. But when that illusion was
cruelly dispelled, there still remained the spectacle
of a gigantic intellect and almost superhuman will,
rising above all obstacles and opposition, transcending
the ordinary limits of earthly life and
power, which struck so responsive a chord in
Byron's soul, and blinded him at times to the baseness
of the despot, while it thrilled him with
admiration for the greatness of the conqueror.

Looking then to what Byron has done in the cause
of Freedom in such an age as this — lying as it does
at the feet of Carlton House and Beau Brummell,
forging degrading fetters for our social life, with the
power of Castlereagh and Sidmouth still paramount
for our political thraldom " (of course some marks of
painful dissent challenged these sentiments ; but
Arnold and others uttered subdued approval) "shall
we not honour and thank this man as long as any of
us retain the virtues of freemen, and cannot crouch
with satisfaction in the fetters of slaves ? What ! are
we always to be in bondage either to the hard outward
yoke of human oppressors, or to the miserable

delusions and hollow forms of a corrupt social state ?
And if we free ourselves from these bonds must we
still be in slavery to the senses, to the forms and
fetters of Time and Matter ? If the young eaglet
be imprisoned in its shell, do not its folded wings
at least predict and proclaim its future freedom ?
And shall we have these glorious aspirations folded
up within our souls, and not know of a surety that
it is intended they should one day be gratified? I
know that in the earliest stages of all Progress and
Civilization there must be restraint and coercion —
that there can be no true freedom without Order and
Law. But when the due sacrifice of a portion of our
liberties has been made to secure true and increasing
freedom, when society and individuals have been
bound down by rigid artificial fetters, and women
especially have been tamed and cramped into models
of servile propriety, is it not well if some wild god
of Freedom and Joy should come bounding over the
mountains ? — that emancipated multitudes should rise
at his call and shout ' Evoe, Evoe ! All hail, Dithyrambus
I ' Yes, it is good for mankind when the day
of emancipation breaks and a reaction against our
thraldom dawns — when it becomes both needful and
wise to give fall swing to our enthusiasm, free play
to our impulses and aspirations for a boundless liberty,
and an unfettered flight.

Some and her subject-world once reposed in peace
beneath the beneficent sway of the Antoninus and
Trajan — in majestic tranquillity, in degrading corruption,

bereft of freedom, filled to the brim with Order,
Law, Security, Profligacy and — Peace. Then creeping
slowly, nearer and nearer, came the free children
of German forest and Scythian plain — came first to
be conquered and enslaved — ' butchered to make a
Roman holiday' — and then to hurl themselves with
irresistible fury and accumulating strength on Woman
civilization and world-wide putrefaction, an incarnate
Nemesis, a myriad-handed avenging deity — purging
the Eoman world by fire and blood, until they restored
to European life the vital forces of individual, social,
and political freedom, by kindling a new spirit of
enterprise, purity, manliness and truth. The deluge
of Barbarism was the infusion of these elements into
European civilization, of revolt against all hackneyed
formalism and lying slaveries — the restoration of the
force and play of unrestrained individual will and
energy to a system which, but for that restoration,
must have miserably perished of its own rottenness
and bonds. And looking to what the condition of
social and political life in England has been during
the last half century — the degraded and effete condition
to which a sensual and sycophantic civilization
has reduced it, and which in a neighbouring country
was so recently and terribly purged by social volcanic
fires — I can conceive of few higher titles to our fervent
gratitude than the service which Lord Byron
has rendered us by his immortal poems.

Turning to the second characteristic of his poetry,
I would ask you to observe his impassioned love for

the Beautiful in every shape and form (especially in
the scenery of Nature) wherewith the Eternal Father
has enriched the Universe. On this point I need
say but little ; for to pretend to prove that Byron
loves and worships Beauty would be like attempting
to demonstrate that in Alpine heights and valleys
dwells all that is most beautiful and sublime in
Natural Scenery. The grandeur and loveliness of
Nature speaks for itself, and to argue that Byron has
rendered an immeasurable service to his fellow-creatures
by helping them to behold and worship
Beauty in all its varied aspects, would be like proving
by syllogism that Handel's Messiah is magnificent
music. But on the third characteristic to which I
referred, it seems more needful to say a word or two.
I mean the wonderful craving for Love, the yet more
wonderful capacity for loving, which Byron's life and
character manifest. It is not needful, in this case,
either, to cite passages or proofs to show the existence
of either of those qualities in the great poet, anymore
than to prove that he fosters our perceptions
of beauty. Neither is it necessary to discuss the
extent to which his youthful environment, his extraordinary
imagination and temperament, undefended
by high religious principle, may have hurried him
into momentary excesses, grossly exaggerated by cruel
Humour, yet at the best as unworthy of him as they
have been lamented by him. I am not here to impeach
or to defend him — nor to describe the burning
shame and sorrow with which one is compelled to

believe even partially in the failings of such a man.
But it is because I do believe in my heart that Byron
has a glorious work to do for the world in preaching
not only the gospel of Freedom and of Beauty, but
also of Love, that I would ask you to remark two or
three points of vital importance in this matter. If
he where the mere dissolute profligate which some
would have us believe, he certainly could preach no
true gospel to any human being on so awful and
glorious a subject. Therefore I would ask you first
to note his romantic and ardent love for his young
Scotch nurse, Mary Duff, in his ninth year (scarcely
as old as Dante when he first fell in love with
Beatrice), and then for his cousin, Miss Parker,
when not yet in his teens. Then I would remind
you of the depth, fervour, and constancy of his
school-friendships, those pure and ardent attachments
which in the very extravagance of their ardour indicate
more surely even than his later attachments for persons
of the opposite sex, the real craving and capacity
for love in his essential nature. I know something,
I may be permitted to say, respecting Byron's friendship
for Lord Clare, and of what he felt when they
parted as boys and met as men. But, passing over
those 'young dreams,' let me ask you to reflect on
his passion for Miss Chatsworth. No youth, I believe,
loves a girl older than himself, and especially one
who looks on him as a mere boy, except with a very
pure and beautiful love. Byron's romantic attachment
to that lady, and the terrible blight which her

refusal has cast over his life, are to my mind convincing
evidence of the innate purity of his craving
and capacity for love. But indeed all that I have
ever heard on this subject (and I think I know nearly
as much as may or ought to be known about it by
the ordinary public) proves that he has never really
sought or delighted in coarse or licentious ways.
That he may have been — was — thrown, flung as it
were, momentarily into vice under the fearful reaction
of suffering from that disappointment, I have admitted
but I must solemnly affirm that everything tends
to show, in his relations to the other sex, that he has
always yearned for a permanent attachment, a true
deep love, not the mere gratification of a sensualist's
desires.

"After his disappointment, and the reactionary
excesses which may have followed it, it is manifest
to those who have known him and his history that,
though seeking woman's love in a relation which
neither morality nor religion can sanction, it was
a love deep and pure, constant and tender,
which held him in its bonds. If you doubt, read
his poem to the memory of ' Thyrza,' and never
doubt again. But does not the same truth shine
forth clear to the seeing eye and understanding
heart from the descriptions of love which abound
in his poems, and which are so constantly presented
that they must indubitably flow from the
very depths of his nature ? Is it not sufficient
to refer to the description of Conrad's love for

Medora . . . ' tried in temptation, strengthened
by distress, Unmoved by absence, firm in every
clime ' . of Zuleika and her lover, of Haled
and Lara, Sardanapalus and Pyrrha ? Or turn to
the loves even of Manfred and of Cain, but especially
of Torquil and Nenha ? Where will you find
stronger evidence of the existence of the capacity
and craving for pure and faithful love than in these
delineations? Look, for instance, at that stern denunciation
of unhallowed passion in the second canto
of ' Childee Harold,' stanza 35 ; and then at that
wonderful description of pure and faithful love in his
poem of * The Island,' canto IL, 16, which begins thus:

'And let not this seem strange ; the devotee
Lives not in earth, Lut in his extasy.
Around him days and worlds are heedless driven,
His soul is gone before his dust to heaven.
Is Love less potent ? No — his path is trod,
Alike uplifted gloriously to God. . . . '

Mark how in that ideal conception pure and
absorbing love, even in the humblest hearts, is
linked on the one hand with worship, aspiration,
and union with Grod ; on the other, with self-forget
fulness, self-abnegation. In the same strain
are the lines :

' Yes, love indeed is light from Heaven ;

A spark of that immortal fire
By angels shared, by Allah given.

To lift from earth our low desire.
Devotion wafts the mind above,
But Heaven itself descends in love;
A feeling from the Godhead caught

To wean from self each sordid thought ;
A ray of Him who formed the whole ;
A glory circling round the soul I '

True to thoughts like these, how pure and
beautiful is the love of Torquil and * the young
savage ' of the South Sea Islands, for it is their
whole existence. The poet knew too well that
mere animal passion would soon pall. Hence that
he should have described such love as that
between Torquil and his young bride to be so
all-satisfying, is proof abundant that he knew how
beautiful and blessed it is. (Jf course we can hardly
imagine their love sufficing for happiness, with so
little variety and outward interest in it. But that
the poet could imagine and describe it as sufficient
shows, what so much beside in his character
and writings declares, viz., the pure, unselfish,
spiritual love which he is capable of feeling, and
continually does feel, with extraordinary intensity.

Mind, I do not say it is love in its highest
character ; thank Grod, there is a region above
even that we have been contemplating, and to
which we are invited to soar — namely, the realm
where that love reigns supreme which illuminated
the Cross of Calvary. But this last is not within
my province to speak of now. And I say boldly,
that of simply human love — pure, constant, ardent,
deep — Byron is an apostle, a teacher, of the
highest and noblest description."

(St. Austell here was visibly discomposed, and

Milman looked perplexed. Arnold drew a long
breath, but turned again to the speaker with renewed
interest. Charlie pushed on with unabated
ardour :)

Remember, I am not defending all Baton's
conduct, nor all the forms in which he has madly
sought the realization of his dreams. But let me
point you to such passages as that beginning
Clarens, sweet Clarens,' in the third canto of

Childee Harold ' (99th stanza) ; to the stanzas descriptive
of Egeria in the fourth canto ; and perhaps
not least of all, in addition to those previously
mentioned, to the descriptions of the love of
Marino Falter and Angelina in the * Doge of
Venice.' Do you think a reckless, ingrained libertine
could have written that singularly pure and
noble tragedy ? Never I . . . Its author had a
right to ask the goddess of 'Egeria's fountain'
when, in some of the most beautiful verses of

Childee Harold,' he is speaking of love's immortal
transports — that crucial question,

"' Could thine art
Make them indeed immortal, ami impart
The purity of heaven to earthly joys ? '

This, this — the purity of heaven bestowed on
earthly love — is what that great poet has sighed
for with all the infinite longing of a soul created
in the Divine image, to share in Divine love.
Do not mistake me. I am not for a moment
pretending that his actual life has not sometimes

fallen far below his ideal. Whose does
not ? That man's, only, who has no loftier aspiration
than that which the poor and base realities
of his own life, and that of his companions, can
supply. Is it not given us to see that the abounding
love Lord Byron manifests for Nature in all
her varied forms, that longing to blend his being
with hers in reverent yet ardent devotion, springs
from the same deep source as that craving for
human love which flashed out so strikingly in
those youthful attachments to which I have alluded,
and which has burned so brightly or so luridly in
his maturer years ? I maintain that this longing
for love, this capacity for giving it, this desire
for union, harmony, blended life, this admiration
for the Beautiful and Sublime, are all essentially
religious ; and however mournfully at times perverted
or defiled by human weakness and sin,
are, in their inmost nature, heavenly and divine.

"In a letter written by a man, who is believed
by those who know him to be one of the deepest
thinkers and truest poets of the age, I mean
Samuel Taylor Coleridge, which I was privileged
to see the other day, he says ; . . * there is a
religion in all deep love His words confirm so
strikingly what I have been trying to express,
though referring primarily to a mother's love, that
I venture to hope you also will admit their truth,
and allow that there is religion in Byron's deep
love for Nature — aye, and in all deep love of human

beings for one another, even when defiled by some
base alloy.

But has Byron's worship of Nature and Beauty,
of Freedom and Love, brought him Joy ? Has he
attained to any state or condition in any department
of human life, whether spiritual or material,
religious or secular, in which we can wisely desire
to dwell with him, or yet a state to strive after
in our humbler measure ? 1 fear the answer, if
given by himself or by those who love and honour
him, would be made, not with exultant songs of
praise and gladness, but rather with a sigh of
disappointment, if not with a groan of despair.
If it were given ! ' did I say ? Alas, it is given
in almost every page of his poetry. It would be
given in yet sadder tones, I fear, if it were wrung
from the deeper secrets of his heart.

And if the High-priest of this faith (ought I not
to say, as some would urge, the Arch-magician) of this
most fascinating, but most delusive worship of Love,
Beauty, Joy, Lord Byron, has succeeded so ill, himself,
in attaining to Joy and Peace, how has it fared with
his unhappy followers ? There can be no disputing the
vast extent of Byron's influence on Society. That
fourteen thousand copies of ' Lara ' were sold in about
six weeks, is simply one outward proof of the unseen
all-pervading power with which his words and thoughts
have laid their grass upon men's imaginations and
hearts. But what have they done for the happiness of
men ? Byron can awaken a desire for all he himself

SO passionately desires — but can he gratify it ? He
can make youthful hearts beat high with yearnings for
the life of the gods —can he transport a single human
soul to the Halls of the Immortals? Is it well to
describe Lake Leman or the Jungfrau, ' Clarens, sweet
Clarens,' or those ' Isles of Grreece,'

Where burning Sappho loved and sung,'

or the charms of Zuleika, or ' Life on the Ocean
Wave ' in such exquisite colours that his own words,
so sad and beautiful, describing what he felt in
regard to love, can best describe what his despairing
votaries feel in reference to all that Beauty, Freedom,
Love, and Joy for which he bids them crave :

* Oh, Love ! no habitant of earth thou art —

An unseen seraph, we believe in thee, —
A faith whose martyrs are the broken heart.

But never yet hath seen, nor e'er shall see
The naked eye, thy foi*m, as it should be.

The mind hath made thee, as it peopled heaven,
Even with its own desiring phantasy ;

And to a thought such shape and image given,
As haunts the unquenched soul — parched wearied— wrung—

[and riven.'

Yes, this Arch-magician, (or Black-Artist ?), can
transport our souls upwards to celestial visions,
waft us soaring through the blue depths of
heaven, and then — not in the malevolence of
mockery, but in the impotence of his own enchantments
— dashes us down again to the hard
cold rocks of common-place, dull and often dreary
existence. The fate to which he consigns his
victims, is his own. He has found neither Freedom

nor Peace, for himself, I fear — no, nor any real
and true satisfaction for those high desires. How then
can he confer such infinite blessings on others ? But
the curse of disappointed hopes, of morbid repining,
of restless dissatisfaction, and discontent, that unhappily
he can and does impart to thousands — well, if
he does not always draw them into those unclean
abysses of sensualism, or gambling recklessness, which
so often yawn for souls like his, and for the victims of
his fearful and most * uncanny ' spells. But if these
be the melancholy results of aspiring beyond the
limits of our confined and material existence, is it well
to teach us to aspire ? Were it not a fitter, perhaps a
nobler task to show us how to accommodate ourselves
to our own humble and limited lot — to make us
content with such modicum of freedom, beauty, love,
as we can obtain amid our daily routine of duty and of
drudgery ? Yes ! if you ask whether you and I and
an innumerable multitude should preach to ourselves
that doctrine of resignation. Xo ! a thousand times
no, if you desire that the one man out of a million
million, the one glorious soul Grod has sent into the
world once in the ages to preach his gospel to the
dumb, toiling, suffering sons of men should be asked
to hold his peace. I tell you there are ten thousand
preachers and teachers striving to fill our hearts with
the gospel of resignation, with a deadening sense of
the duty of accommodating ourselves to a dreary lot,
of never ranging beyond the boundaries of common
life and hackneyed routine, for one that dares try

to lift US up to higher and happier realms of
being.

"What the civilized world now wants, it seems tome,
is a prophet who can train, impel men to aspire.
That world is suffering from hopelessness, depression,
and fear — from a dull, aching void — a sense of disappointed
cravings for a good which it believes itself
created to obtain, but which it has not yet found —
a joyless, unloving weariness of life, and all the pain
as well as evil which grow from this state of bondage.
It is the result, I imagine, partly of that grand old
Puritan and Calvinistic faith which once bore noblest
fruits, but has left us now only apples of the Dead
Sea filled with venom and bitterness ; partly also
of the perennial curse of selfish indulgence, envy,
apathy, and base animal greed ; and, above all, it is
a consequence of our having lost those great stirring
sources of enterprise and self-denying action supplied
by chivalry, by the Crusades, by the discovery of
boundless realms beyond the seas, by patriotic wars
of self-defence, wars of religion, and even of aggression,
which, however full of evil in many aspects,
yet undoubtedly did marvellously help to keep men's
minds free from dreamy, morbid repining, sentimentality,
and effeminate self-indulgence.

You complain of the morbid repining and gloomy
misanthropy of so much of Lord Byron's writing,
and ask if these are satisfactory results of his
cultus ' and his creed. I answer unhesitatingly,
Yes ! If a man with Byron's genius, lofty aspires
I. 9

tions, and deep affections, could have lived the life
he has, and yet have been satisfied, I should indeed
despair of our race. His diseased melancholy, his
frequent complaints and disgust at life, are the true
answer to those who hold our nature in contempt,
and who denounce the folly of believing we were
created for a divine existence. Show me a man of
exalted genius, of noble, pure, unselfish life, filled
with a Christ-like piety, faith, and love — if he is
overwhelmed with morbid misery of the Byronic
type I shall abandon my faith in the glorious destiny
awaiting us. — Not till then.

It is because men are created and destined for
perfection that they never can be satisfied with a
stunted life ; and the more nearly they reach the
goal, like Byron, on some lines of advance, if they
are not possessed with a profound religious faith and
high moral principle, the farther they are almost
certain, like him, to fall away from it on others.
What in such a case can be expected but the melancholy
and repining which are found so abundantly
in his writings, and which testify as powerfully (if
I may use a trite but noble illustration) to the
existence of a hidden glory, one day to be revealed,
as the dark cloud with the silver edge witnesses
to the moon-lit radiance behind and beyond its
gloom ?

Therefore, again I say, let us all be up and
doing that we may sternly and successfully combat
both the false religion and the yet more deadly evil

that flows from it, of degrading selfishness, frivolity,
and vice.

If there be one day at the present day more
urgent than another surely it is to break away from
these cruel bonds that are stifling all the higher
life of our souls, quenching even the light of religion
in our temples and our hearts, drawing us down to
the dens of ' the Epicurean sty.' And shall we
reject, silence, crucify the preacher who, whether he
knows it or not, whether he be overshadowed by
darkness or rejoicing in light, whether he lives
worthily or unworthily of his high calling, is, I
devoutly believe, sent of God to help deliver us
from this galling bondage ? Divine inspiration communicated
through human messengers must always
suffer in transmission. Do not expect of Byron
what no prophet ever yet possessed. But be sure
that it is just by this profound and passionate
sympathy, this yearning which Byron awakens in
us for wild and joyous freedom, for the beauty and
grandeur of the universe, for devoted constant love,
for intense and rapturous joy, that he vindicates
our claim to these divine possessions as the destined
inheritance intended for man throughout the ages.
Silence him, and turn away in scorn or hatred if
our existence closes at the grave — if only a mockery
of hope, an accursed mirage is offered to our parched
lips, or if the highest ideal we can reach is just todo
our duty and our drudgery day by day, suffer
and smile, toil, laugh, and weep till Death comes

9—2

and ends for ever the dreary farce. Silence him not,
nor the voice in your own hearts which answers to
his, if you have a grain of faith in God, in immortality,
in heaven ! Byron is the prophet of Immortal
Life. Immortality and Eternity are needful
to explain him and his message to man, and to
explain our vehement response to his glowing words.
Oh, my brothers, I think men do not
know," exclaimed the speaker, with a passionate pathos
in his voice, " they do not know what a prophet has
been sent among them in this man ! — sent to deliver
them from the slavery of their social and political,
literary and artistic life, as the French Revolution,
however disfigured and defiled at last by terror and
crime, came to burst the cruel fetters of millions of
bondsmen." (Uneasy movements again, but steadfast
attention.) " Let me pray you not to allow my imperfect
advocacy to prejudice this great man's claims
in your eyes, but to see for yourselves that he has
.been endowed with those glorious gifts not merely
for his own poor enjoyment, or for yours, but that
he may lift men out of the crushing bondage in
which modern civilization, and alas ! too often,
modern religion, holds them. He comes to bid us
claim our portion in the mountain and the storm,
in the ocean and the stars, in the glory of Grod's
Universe, in the love of Grod which pervades and
sustains it — to make us feel that we may, and
must aspire to chant * ^'V opog ! dg 6poQ ! Evoe, Evoe ! '
evermore.

"But, gentlemen, I beg you earnestly to note that
Byron is not merely the prophet of Immortality,
the preacher of upward aspirations out of darkness
towards the light. He is also and pre-eminently,
the preacher of a gospel of Heaven. His visions
of beauty and love, of freedom and of joy are
surely sent among us to help men to realize heaven
amid all the sorrows and sins of earth — to remind
them of what they are created to enjoy, and are
capable of enjoying.

Is it not true," exclaimed Dayrell, vehemently,
that we are * saved by Hope ? ' But oh, what a
thin poor vision, what a miserable shadowy dream,
is the thought of heaven for the vast majority even
of professing Christians ! while as for the rest of
society, they have no hope. Oh, the misery of
letting our religion and our life be wrenched apart
of having earth and heaven separated by a black
gulf of fear and care and grinding toil, of base
frivolity, or religious gloom ! Why was Earth made
so beautiful, and earthly life so rich in possibilities,
in capacities for the purest enjoyments ? Not alone
I think not chiefly — for earthly happiness, but
yet more that we might guess in some faint
measure what ' eye hath not seen nor ear heard,'
but ' what Grod has prepared for those who love
Him.' Unhappily, that which God created around
and within us to teach us what our life in Him is
meant to be, priests and worldlings alike, — yes,
and even the holiest of God's saints — have too

often denounced, scorned and trampled under foot.
I know these saints and apostles were right to do so
while the world was largely in the clutches of the
flesh and the devil — while earthly joy and beauty
were so fearfully tainted by selfishness, sensuality
and greed. But whenever and so far as Christian
holiness and self-sacrifice have purified the world
and made the human soul fit for heavenly joy and
freedom, ought not the revelations of a gifted
genius like this great poet to be welcomed with
deepest gratitude as a God-given means of helping
the world to be saved by Hope, of making a future
life, and Heaven, glorious realities ? And note this
also, that although, as some of our finest University
preachers have taught us " (here Dayrell turned
and bowed to the chairman and those beside him),
'* excessive devotedness to Art and Music and to all
the enjoyments of the senses, does, no doubt, tend
with fatal force to increase sensuality and slavery
to the things that are seen and perishing, yet that
a reasonable well-balanced pure delight in Nature
and Art, in the Beautiful in any form, marvellously
helps to lift the soul alike above the degrading
temptations, the changes and chances, the fears
and sorrows of the world, and so tends ' to deliver
it from the bondage of corruption into the glorious
liberty of the children of God.' . . . And then
again, if men had but more peace, hope, joy in
their own hearts, if they understood by experience
more of what our esteemed chairman was expounding

so powerfully, only last Sunday, in St.
Peters, viz., the apostle's prayer that *' the God
of Hope might fill us with all joy and peace in
believing ' — oh, how much less of wars and quarrelling,
of evil gossip and slander, of ill-temper,
irritability and revenge there would be in the
community — how much less intemperance and vice,
of craving for the fleeting comfort and destructive
peace gained from pernicious stimulants and narcotics
I For is it not true that when people have
real peace and joy in their hearts they will not
envy and lust and crave for what they have not, or
ought not to have ? Half men's vices spring from
their dullness, their' miseries, and their fears. We
need the gospel of Byronic aspiration and Bacchantic
joy — but born and reared under Christian skies — to
counterbalance that unwholesome suffering and unnecessary
gloom which is born of ignorance and
cherished in sin.

*'I have spoken, gentlemen, of Byron as a gi-eat
heaven-sent preacher of the worship of Hope
and Joy, an apostle of the grand truths needed,
(beyond much that the world now honours and
values.) to accomplish the great revival of Religion
without which I do not believe religion will retain
its hold upon the civilized nations. But to give
us hopes of what some future apostle of this faith
may be and do, think what a mighty power for
good Lord Byron would have been had he only been
blessed with such a mother as England may yet see

for such a son, combining all that mother's fervour
and depth of feeling, imagination and passion, with
lofty Christian principles, and a holy spirit of Christian
as-well as of mere instinctive love. Under the
early training of a simple devout and affectionate
nature free from all cant and superstition, Byron
might by this time have become the greatest
religious preacher — perhaps Reformer — England has
ever seen. And in that case what would be the
nature of his preaching ? and of his reforms ? Ask
the Universe whose beauty and glory Byron worships
and with which he craves to blend his life —
ask the Spirit of Universal Love which has filled,
transfigured and glorified its tempted, sinning,
suffering child !

Yet here, perhaps, you will quote to me his own
words :

' But quiet to quick bosoms is a hell,'

and you will urge that such a fiery nature as his, withall
its marvellous endowments, never could be tamed
to that quiet, useful harness, without which no true
preacher or reformer could possibly serve his Lord
effectually, faithfully. ' Is it so, then ? ' we sadly ask.
Cannot the Lord be well and truly served by a human
being just because He has showered down upon him
such a glorious wealth of faculties and powers ? At
first it seems too true. And yet if only this * passion
for high adventure,' ' which can tire of nought but
rest,' could only find its true sphere of energy — find
its life and joy in leading men up to a worship higher

even than that of Nature or of Man — the worship
of a Grod of Love and Holiness, who has created Nature
and Man — in making them more like their God,
happy and holy instead of miserable and unclean —
helping them to find their glory and their joy in
bringing the influences of music, poetry, and the
drama, of sweet, refining and manly recreation, of
innocent happiness and mirth, of beautiful scenery,
into the lives of their less fortunate brethren — oh,
what a mighty power for good might not such a man
as our ideal Byron become ! And, therefore, what a
vast and soul-satisfying sphere of existence he would
find such a life to be ! There are no limits to beset
to the influence he might exert by leading the
way in disinterested effort to lift folks up to the
realms of light and gladness of which he himself is
by birth a citizen. Imagine him setting himself to
induce high-born and gifted men and women to comedown
from their Olympic heights to give concerts
and poetic readings, dramatic performances for the
edification of grimy toilers in factories and workshops,
to costermongers and roughs, to hard-worked washerwomen
and pallid seamstresses, perhaps singing to
them in the streets and then speaking to them
worthily of Love, Divine and Human, of Duty, and
of Joy — of Heaven above and heaven on earth — of the
gods of Grreece and the God of Jesus ! Who could
speak on such topics like Lord Byron, if only he were
the Byron of the Future, filled with the Spirit of
Christ ? And who could speak with greater power

to persuade men and women of every rank, thus to
live for others' joy and truest welfare, than he who
had just been ministering to their joy ? Never doubt
but that when men of the highest genius are also
men of the highest type of unselfish love and devoted
piety, they will also be the greatest preachers, reformers,
apostles of Christ. For that was a true
prophecy, ' And I, if I be lifted up from the earth,
will draw all men unto me '* — a prophecy which shall
yet be fulfilled.

I know, sir, too well," said Dayrell, in conclusion,
as he turned to the chairman, "that I have done
the task to which you and other friends so kindly
invited me in a very lame and inadequate fashion. I
thank you all sincerely for so patiently listening to
my rambling remarks. But I do hope I have not
entirely failed to show the relation in which I conceive
that Byron's life and poetry stand, on the one
hand to ' the classic dreams of Greece ' and all its
beautiful legends ; on the other, to that great revival
of Religion in the future, that practical application of
Christianity to the wants and woes of Humanity on
earth, which I trust this nineteenth century is yet
to witness. In strains as musical as melancholy,
the great German poet, Schiller, has sung his
requiem over those wonderful antique * Gods of
Greece,' and you will perhaps let me, in conclusion,
quote a few stanzas from that threnody in a fine translation

given me by a poetic friend.* Schiller has been
describing in exquisitely melodious and picturesque
verse what those beautiful and awful, those lovely or
heroic beings were to the ancient Greek, what the
rites and ceremonies with which they honoured
them ; and among the rest he sings of him, the
hero of the Dionysiac myth, of whom last year
we thought and spoke, in obedience to the magic
spells of the great Athenian poet, in his immortal
Bacchanals.'

'All your fanes proud palaces resembled,

Honoured were ye in the hero-game,
When the Isthmian festive crowds assembled.

And the chariot thundering onward came.
Yours the curious, mazy, soul-felt dancing

Round the altar decked with offerings rare.
From yoxir brows the crown of victory glancing —

Chaplets on your perfumed hair.

* Eves of the joyous Thyrsus-swinger,

And the harnessed panther's splendid wain,
Heralded the mighty Pleasure-finger,

Faun and Satyr gambolling in his train ;
Frenzied Meads round him leaping, soaring,

In their dances praise his generous wine ;
And the bruwn-cheeked god to all is pouring

Goblets of the drink divine.
******

' Lovely world, where art thou ? Where thy glory ?

Where the fresh bloom of thy youthful prime ?
Only in the Fable-land the story

Can we find of that once happy time.
All thy fields lie desolate and lonely.

Trace of Godhead I no longer view,
Of that life-warm form the shadows only : —

Not the world which once I knew.'

The late Samuel Robinson, esq., of Wilmslow.

"And then follows his mournful appeal to that
mysterious entity of which I have had to say so
much to-night, of whom Lord Byron has been so
ardent and devout an adorer, even as Wordsworth
and Shelley, and many another poet, in their
several spheres of genius — I mean Nature — call her
what you will but essentially, eternally divine.
Time permits me to quote only a few dissevered
lines :

* A.11 unconsciously' her gifts bestowing
By her own grand features unimprest,
*****

Gravitation's slavish law obeying,

Godless Nature creeps her round.
*****

Back to their own homes the gods have speeded,

Useless in a world to' manhood grown.
*****

Yes, have speeded home ! a world forsaking

Of its fairest, noblest charms bereft !
*****

From Time's all-destroying deluge flying,
On the heights of Pindar now they stay ;

And what, aye in song, shall bloom undying.
Must to actual sense decay.' "

Then my friend concluded thus :

But in sad truth is it so, then ? Is it only in
some beautiful legends, noble tragedy, or lovely
song of ancient Greece and modem poetry that all
the poetry and beauty of those dreams * shall bloom
undying ' ? No ! If Byron, and men with souls akin
to his, if gifted women, and ardent lovers of their
race, will but have faith in 'love Divine,' if they
will but believe that the Gospel of the Cross is also

the Gospel of the Resurrection, that they who bear
that Cross are destined to wear the Crown of Beauty
and of Heavenly Life both here and hereafter — only
believe that dying to Self means rising to Freedom
and Love, to Beauty and eternal Joy, that heaven
is meant for this world as well as for that which is
to come — there are those now rejoicing in their
buoyant youth who may live even on this earth
to behold in their tranquil age, at least the dawn
of a brighter and more glorious day. And if
Homer, Hesiod, Euripides, all who in former or
later days have sung of the beautiful legends and
gods of ancient Greece, if this noble German singer
and our English Byron could look down on earth a
hundred years hence, and behold the true prophet-poet
of the future, drawing millions of earnest
happy souls into a heaven on earth, through loving
loyalty to the Lord of the Christian Church and
of the heathen world, might they not take up
Schiller's words in his address to those ' Gods of
Greece,' and adapt them thus to a happier strain ?

' O'er the beauteous-n-orld when ye presided,
And in Pleasure's gently leading Land,
Happier generations yet ye guided,
Lovely Beings of the Fable-land !
Once again, your joyous worship cherished,
Beams in brightness on this fairer day —
Eor your glorious visions have not perished —
See they rise again in bright array !
Venus Amathusia I ' "

The young enthusiast resumed his seat amid a
burst of vehement applause, which was renewed

when Mr. ]Milman moved, and Mr. Arnold seconded,
in terms of glowing commendation, a vote of
thanks to their "young Oriel brother," and expressed
their ardent hope that he might live to
promote, and rejoice in beholding, some portion
at least of those blissful changes realized, whereof
he had so eloquently discoursed. Charlie modestly
and gratefully acknowledged the compliment, and
thus that brief happy interlude passed away.

Whether Charles Dayrell at this period of his
life, as in regard to his other hero, Dionysus, and
the Bacchanalian worship, over-estimated the real
goodness and innate purity of Byron's character
and influence is not a matter that can be determined
here or anywhere, perhaps, on earth. If
my friend ever thought in after life he had done
so, he certainly never wavered in his conviction
that all he had now said of Byron's poetry was
true, eternally true, and that it was the great
Krrjua tg at'i ' for every genuine human soul.

When I had finished reading the good clergyman's
MS., which took longer than I expected, the silence
was presently broken by my mother and sisters saying,
" Thank you " in a very decisive sort of way, as
if they meant it ; and I remember one of my sisters,
Ellen, adding, " My grandfather himself must have
had much of the genuine poet in him." Then
Stella remarked in those low rich tones which
always carried in them deep feeling or cutting sarcasm
:

"Thank you very much, Mr. Wilfrid . . . .
Nothing like such eloquence has been heard, I
imagine, since the days of Demosthenes. I'm beside
myself with admit " She stopped suddenly j

as she looked at me, and heard some inarticulate
cry. Then she rose, came to my couch and whispered,
" Pray forgive me. Make allowance for
original sin." And then came that enchanting smile
which always made me thankful that she had
angered me. Presently she said aloud, " Sad, is it
not and wonderful to think how that cruel hypocritical
world in which for a short time poor Byron
lived, turned on him like Actaeon's hounds on their
master, to rend and tear him — and do, to this
day!"

But," said my mother, " he must have given
them only too much reason, or at least an opening,
for their attacks."

Know you not, dear mother," I answered, " that
what the grandest of Greek poets, Pindar, denounced
as the basest passion of the human heart, <pQovoQ,
envy of superior greatness, is also one of the most
prevalent ? Yet it is, alas, too true that Byron's
own errors and sins gave his detractors the opening
of which you speak ; which is equally true of all
mortals, I suppose."

'^ Well, don't sigh over it, dear, so wearily.
Byron has long been beyond their reach," said my
mother.

Yes, thank Heaven," I answered, " and his

glorious poetry survives both their malice and the
paltry venomous attacks upon him of the present
day. But oh, how he writhed under them while he
lived ! It was not, could not be, in the nature of
that great poet-soul to be otherwise than bitterly
wounded by such treatment from the world whose
love, admiration, and sympathy he so ardently desired.
But can we doubt that a day will come when
his lofty prophecy will be fulfilled — though perhaps
not until that far-off time when he will have learnt
alike to renounce and despise that personal egotism
which those youthful days almost inevitably mingled
with his nobler sentiments ? "

'' Which prophecy ? " asked one of my sisters.
Then I read from the Fourth Canto of " Childee
Harold," the 132nd and following stanzas, beginning
with that magnificent invocation to "Nemesis."

Fred Ellerslie had been a very attentive listener,
but had said little or nothing after the reading
was over, explaining that his emotions were too
deep to permit of their being clothed in the language
of ordinary mortals. When we were alone,
however, he expressed with unwonted fervour his
satisfaction on the whole with the view of Byron's
character and work taken by the lecturer.

"Nevertheless," he continued (there was always a
nevertheless ' or a ' but ' sure to follow any of Fred's
encomiums), " that brilliant and novel metaphor in
your great ancestor's protection about the cloud and
its silver lining, allow me to say, with profound

deference, was a glaring mistake. It is not the
cloud but the light on its edges which bears witness
to the radiance behind."

Oh, glorious Criticism ! be thou my god," I exclaimed.
If fas est et ah hoste, how much more
is it good ah amico, doceri. Yet even amicus, when
posing as critic, should avoid blundering, himself.
How could you discern the cloud on the face of the
sky at all, I should like to know — how could you
perceive the fauns and stains on Byron's character,
his morbid Melancholy and darker sins — were it not
for the radiant glory of the moon and of his soul
which reveals both the cloud on the one and the
stains on the other — that light which, shining on
the edges of the cloud, tells what the brightness,
will be when the cloud has passed away ? Had
Byron been a Hottentot instead of a splendid English
poet, who would have known or noticed the
dark clouds on his character and life ? There !'
Throw up the sponge, eh ? "

By no means. Yet you give food for reflexion,
which is salutary, if not pleasant. But seriously,
Dayrell, had the modern Bacchanal read ' Don Juan '
when he delivered that flaming eulogium on
Byron ? "

No. How could he ? The first and second
cantos, though written, I believe, at Venice in 1818,
were not published till July, 1819, and the remainder
several years later."

'* I'm relieved and — gratified," replied Ellerslie. " I
VOL. I. 10

fancy a man like Charles Dayrell would have sung
in a different key, had he then come fresh from
a perusal of the luscious descriptions with which,
in some parts, that immortal and beastly production
is adorned."

"Your epithet is strong— some would say too
strong. But I am rather of your opinion, Fred,"
I replied. " And it staggers one faith, sometimes,
in Byron's better nature to remember what he
would and did write and — do."

I don't think it need," replied Ellerslie, " though
I'm no means such an enthusiastic Byron-worshipper
as you and your progenitor. For looking back to
school-days, I remember how loose the whole tone
of the fellows in our house was, and how I used to
say (and if I had been a poet, should then have
written), things the bare recollection of which disgusts
me immensely now. Even so with the two
or three men who were my particular chums at
Eton. Yet they are manly and gentlemanly enough
fellows now. So much depends — in those early
days, and I suppose at any time till one's character
is formed — on the tone of the society one lives in.
Is even Shakspeare entirely free from the impure
influences of his day ? Byron tried hard to live in
clean and pure companionship for a time, but subsequently
to Thyrza's death, followed after a time
by the unfortunate termination of his marriage
speculation, he flung himself recklessly into vicious
and disgraceful courses — greatly helped on his way

by the bitter slanderous attacks that assailed him
from all quarters."

Eight you are," said I.

"And he was still half a child," added Ellerslie,
when he wrote Don Juan — aye and even to the
end of his days. But what about Thyrza ? "

*' Oh, haven't you read that article in the last
edition of the Encydopceclia Britannica on Byron ?
No ? Well, you should as soon as may be. I quoted
from it, you remember, when I was reading this
lecture. It seems to me first-rate. The writer doesn't
ignore Byron's frailties and sins, but takes by far
the truest and most judicial view of his real character
and life, that, in my opinion, has yet been given to
the world. That life of him in the series of ' Men
of Letters ' is neither fair nor appreciative, and can't
be compared with Professor Minto's in my humble
opinion. Moore's view is fairly discriminating and
impartial, but it was written by an intimate friend,
and too near Byron's time to be altogether reliable.
Well, what the Professor says about Thyrza is in
connection with his belief in the innate essential
goodness and purity of Byron's nature and character.
Here's another extract I wrote out from it, with
which I thought I would not trouble the ladies.
extract from Byron'' Encydopceclia Britannica,
ix. Eel. :

"* Unfortunately for him [Byron] such impetuous
and passionate affections as his could rarely find
the response for which he craved. In those few

10—2

cases where devotion was repaid by devotion, the
warmth of his gratitude was unbounded. He loaded
poor Thyrza's memory with caresses, careless of what
the world might say, remembering only that the
poor girl clung to him with unselfish love ; and he
returned his sister's tender regard with an ardour
and constancy that showed how highly he prized
and how eagerly he reciprocated sincere affection.
. . Nothing ever racked him with deeper anguish
than the death of her whom he mourned under the
name of Thyrza. To know the bitterness of the
struggle with this sorrow we have only to look at
what he wrote on the day when the news reached
him (Oct. 11, 1811). Some of his wildest and most
misanthropical verses as well as some of his sweetest
and saddest belong to that saddest of dates in his
calendar. . . . mr. John Morley,' the Professor
goes on to say, * . . remarks upon the respect
which Byron with all his raillery of the married
state in modern Society, still shows for the domestic
idea. It is against the artificial union, the mariage
de convenance, that Byron's raillery was directed . .
In spite of debauchery, he was always pining for
some constant love, and cursing the fate which had
denied it to him. . . This purer sentiment was
always enshrined in his heart of hearts, from his
boyhood to the end of his days. . . Thyrza, who
appears to have accompanied him in some of his
wanderings in male attire, would really seem to have
been his grand passion. Her " dear sacred name " his

haDclj he says years after, would have trembled to
write. . . .' Later on, ' . . We find him in
his Journal, with her in his memory writing with
contempt of the amours of some of his acquaintance,
and scoffing at the idea of their applying the name
of love to favours which could be purchased with
money. . . He has recorded the fact that when
he drew the portrait of Zuleika his whole soul was
full of her (Thyrza's) memory . . . She is the
more than friend ' commemorated at the close of
the second canto of Childee Harold, and she is the
original of Medora [and Haled] as well as the
^ presiding genius ' of the whole series of Eastern
tales . . .'"

I'm heartily grateful to you, Dayrell," said Fred,
*' for letting me hear all that. I go with it, every word*'

And' now I think of it," I rejoined, " there's a
letter from my grandfather to Mr. • Rivers, written
after reading Don Juan, and in response to a manly
sort of appeal the clergyman had made to his college
friend, two or three months after the appearance
of the first and second cantos. It wasn't the
kind of thing to bring before the ladies, for, thank
goodness, I don't suppose they know much about
the poem except from some beautiful extracts in
Howard's * Beauties of Byron.' But you are welcome
to see it — in fact I wish not only every
admirer and every detractor but every reader of
byron's Don Juan could see and ponder over it. Le
void, :

So Ellerslie read the following :

Letter from Charles Dayrell to Mr. Rivers.

. . . Do not suppose for one moment that I
would ignore, or even extenuate, the vileness of those
detestable portions of Don Juan which I imagine
have done more than almost anything else to brand
Lord Byron's character with shame. It would be
difficult to find words in which to describe alike the
grief and disgust with which one regards many portions
of that production. All I ask is that in denouncing
what in it is vile, we should never forget how
much still remains that is so sweet and beautiful and
pure as to be akin to heaven. He is, perchance,
' A fallen angel, but an angel still '

and hence it seems to me this poem strangely
confirms all for which I contended, or pleaded, in that
Oriel fling. . . . The simple truth is that we find in it
only too evident proof of the terrible ordeal through
which Lord Byron has, of late years, been passing — of
the effect produced on him by early vicious training,
by the strength of his own passions, by his unhappy
marriage, and last, not least, by the cruelly unjust
treatment he has received at the hands of many
of his fellow-countrymen. This treatment, combined
with the deadly leprosy of satiety creeping
over him in the reaction from excess, and the
disgust he feels with himself and the world, has
thrown him into the slough of cynicism and prurient
bravado ; while the innate nobleness of his

heart and soul, ever and anon, break forth in the
midst of that pollution and assert his higher nature.
It is the old story — ' Corruption optime persia est.' "

In another letter, written evidently in answer to
a reply from Mr. Elvers, Charles Dayrell remarks
I admit all you urge, but because Byron wrote
passages in his poems as inexcusable as they are
dangerous and degrading, are we, therefore, to be
blind to the exquisite beauty, the profound piety, the
tender loving spirit, and passion, of much that we meet
with in that poem besides ? . . . When, oh when shall
we understand that the best of all human attainments,
character, work, are but a mingled web of many
diverse colours — and that we must be thankful for all
that is good and beautiful therein without expecting
freedom from evil and error, even in the most saintly
or most gifted I " The Oriel advocates diabolic then,
growing more impassioned, continues thus — " What !
shall we denounce Byron and his glorious Muse,
because he shared ' The Fatal Dowry ' of Humanity
and sometimes ministered in the service of the devil
instead of God ? Nay, let us rather praise and rejoice
in the good, resist and denounce the evil — and in the
strength of a higher life than our own, in the might of
a purity and a piety given from above, honour all in
Byron and his works which comes from the God-like
that was in him, while we refuse to be defiled or
alienated by that in him and his writings which is
earthly, sensual, devilish ' — emanating from his lower
nature and evil cii-substances ? Poets and authors,

like murderers and ministers of religion, after all, are
but imperfect mortals. Do you expect any of the
greatest saints and heroes of humanity, any of the
most exquisite composers, painters, heroines, goddesses
in woman's form, to be without a flaw ? Well does a
wise G german say to us ' Take from Luther his roughness
and fiery courage ; from Calvin his hectic obstinacy
; from Erasmus his timid prudence ; hypocrisy
[no, that's a mistake] and fanaticism from Cromwell ;
from Henry IV. his sanguine character; mysticism
from Fenelon ; ' . . (and so on) ' deduct this oppressive
exuberance from each ; rectify them according
to your own taste — what will be the result ? Your
own correct, pretty, flat, useful — for me, to be sure,
quite convenient vulgarity. . . Learn to know this
exuberance, this leaven of each great character. . .
that where d, e, f, is there must be a, b, c : He alone
has knowledge of man, who knows the ferment that
raises each character, and makes it that which it shall
be, and something more or less than it should be '
(Lavater's Aphorisms, translated by Fuseli, p. 179-81);
Aye, what right, dear Mr. Elvers, have we — full as
we ourselves are of imperfections, to expect faultless
perfection in others — especially in such a temperament
as Byron's ? Only a child, a fool, or a madman
should be surprised at meeting ugliness, discord, and
sin, side by side with beauty, harmony, purity, love, inhuman
character and human life. . . On the other
hand, I know too well we cannot help being shocked
(and ought to be) each time that the deformity of

a half-developed, undisciplined, ill-taught, yet glorious
creature is revealed to us in all its repulsive contrasts.
Shocked we must be, for is not this the greatest
and saddest contrast on earth ? If we did not protest
against it, denounce and abjure the vileness, we should
ourselves be false to our better nature, traitors to
our purest aspirations, and on the high road to coalescing
with that deformity. For the hackneyed verse is
everlastingly true —

' Vice is a monster of such frightful mien
As, to be hated, needs be only seen ;
But, seen too oft, we grow familiar with her face —
"We first endure, then pity, then embrace 1 '

But in the midst of judgment, still let us remember
mercy, or at least let us not forget Justice, and
abstain from expecting freedom from frailty in one
whom divines would truly, I suppose, call an unregenerate
child of the dust. No, nor in an angel
of light if he had been nurtured, like Proserpine,
amid the fairest flowers of earth, and then
been dragged for half his days down to the
infernal regions. Tell me^is it not true that in
proportion as we can hold fast our own kinship with
Grod, we shall be able to honour and love, rejoice
in and profit by all that is divine in Byron and his
immortal poetry, without being in danger of yielding
our hearts to that glamour of Satan by which at times
Byron is debased and enslaved. .

Let me quote these lines from ' Don Juan ' as the
key to the origin of most that is evil in that marvellous
production.

'* ' And if I laugh at any mortal thing

'Tis that I may not weep ; and if I weep,
'Tis that onr nature cannot always bring

Itself to apathy ; for we must steep
Our hearts first in the depths of Lethe's spring
Ere what we least wish to behold will sleep :
Thetis baptized her mortal son in Styx
A mortal mother would on Lethe fix.

Bon JaoLn, Canto IV. Jf.

So much for my counter-blast to your earnest and

powerful impeachment. But thank you for it heartily

all the same, and believe me, dear Rivers, ever your

old friend,

Charles Dayrell."

The next day Ellerslie having accompanied my
mother and sisters to church, quietly remarked, on his
return, that he had seen the Lady Stella and Miss
Frances Grey there also.

Was there anything very wonderful in that ? " I
asked.

"By no means," replied the gentleman — "only in
the associations which curiously enough her expressive
countenance conjured up in my truant fancy when,
reprehensibly, I glanced at it during the service."

"Explain, Sir Oracle," I rejoined, and as he assured
us he could do so only by a quotation, I insisted on its
production, which, when produced, proved to be the
following from Byron's " Giaour " : —

His floating robe around him folding,

Slow sweeps he thro' the columned aisle,
"With dread beheld, with gloom beholding
The rites that sanctify the pile.

* * *

See by the half-illumined "wall,
His hood fly back, his dark hair fall,
That pale bi-o^v Wildly wreathing round,
As if the Gorgon there had bound
The sables of the serpent braid
That o'er her fearful forehead strayed.
* •«• *

Lo I — mark ye as the harmony
Peals louder praises to the sky
That livid cheek, that stony air
Of mixed defiance and despair."

(Here Fred, with subdued but mischievous mirth
twinkling in his eye, glanced up at me and
paused, evidently half afraid to go further. But
as I made no sign, he continued :)

Saint Francis !

(That's not Miss Grey)

Saint Francis 1 Keep him from the shrine !

Else may we dread the wrath divine,

Made manifest by awful sign.

If ever evil angel bore

The form of mortal, such he wore.

By all my hope of sins forgiven.

Such looks are not of earth, nor heaven."

"And that," said my mother, rather riial-d-
propos, when Ellerslie paused, " you consider a
description of Lady Stella at chi-ch ? "

Oh, dear, no," replied Fred, looking as innocent
as a cherub. "I can't think what put the lines
into my head."

"Well spouted," I remarked, to relieve the tension
of the situation. But I felt so mad with my
dear friend that I could have ' brayed him in a

mortar,' all the more because he raised a spectre
that had once and again haunted me. I used not
to mind it, but since my accident, and. while recalling
my grandfather's notions about religion, I
had grown sensitive on the subject. Nevertheless,
as he looked at me apologetically, I repressed my
sentiments ; and, though I felt savage then, I
knew when he was leaving us next day for
Oxford, unscathed and serene, I could have given
one of my favourite setters — or sisters, if only I
could have had him always within call, as in the
old Oriel days.

When our little circle next assembled. Lady
Stella began playing softly on the piano, as it
were to herself; but presently she turned round
on her music stool, and said, " I do feel so
grateful for all Mr. Dayrell says in that lecture
respecting Byron's innate goodness of heart. I'm
sure the Oxford Bacchant, and those he cites as
witnesses, were right in that. But in regard to
his and Byron's religiousness, is it not strange —
passing strange that — . . ." She paused, and
my heart was in my mouth again. I guessed
what might be coming. I had felt all along
there might, probably would be, strong dissatisfaction,
or, at least, dissent on those points,
mingled with their pleasure, perhaps among all
•my auditors, though scarcely a word had been
spoken. But presently Stella went on : " Taken
only in a poetical light, as Schiller meant it in

that noble ode, wliicli, in the last verse, Mr. Dayrell
adapted so skilfully, the worship of the gods is
beautiful. We 'must look up to, revere, worship
something. You have given me intense delight
by that lecture on Byron, Mr. Dayrell. Thank
you, very much " (pause). " But, taken seriously,
these fancies about a God or gods — " Then
again she paused, and continued in a hard tone,
as if bracing herself up under strong emotion to
say what she thought might be a hateful thing.
** . . . Is it not — are not these so-called religious
speculations, after all, a mere delusion ? "
Then seeing me turn, and I suppose glare at
her, for I was in a terribly excitable state, she
added, rather sadly, " I don't mean that your
grandfather was mistaken about Byron.
But, might not, perhaps, both Byron and he be
under a slight delusion as to religious matters ?
May it not all be a melancholy mistake, a beautiful,
sorrowful, self-deception to imagine that we
could know and worship such a Being as Mr.
Charles Dayrell spoke of, believed in, and adored ?
Do you know, dear Mrs. Dayrell," she continued,
*^ it always seemed strange to me how so thoroughly
manly a man as your admirable father-in-law,
could concern himself so much with imaginary
realities — vain and shadowy as those about which
the so-called religion of this day troubles itself.
Beside the stern sad realities of daily life they
do seem such poor trifles that it's almost wicked

to give them such a deal of attention. What can
we possibly know about them ? Surely in the
things we can see, and hear, and touch, in this
actual world in which we live, there is, or ought
to be, enough to occupy all our thoughts and
interest ? What have we to do with ' things unseen,'
especially with some imaginary future world?"

What ! " I exclaimed. " Does it seem to you
strange that because Charles Dayrell was so true a
man he should have been profoundly religious ?
I rather think there have been a good many
brave and manly men in this world distinguished
for piety and faith. What do you say to the
Pilgrim Fathers, to Cromwell and his Ironsides,
to Columbus, and Martin Luther, to John Howard,
and the Smithfield martyrs ? "

Yes, yes ; but they were all immersed in their
horrid delusions about Satan and Hell, and eternal
torments, and, as regarded religion, thought chiefly
about saving their souls." (Here an emphatic " No ! "
was heard from the sofa.) "But your grandfather was
a thoroughly healthy-minded mein, one who believed
in this world and its glorious possibilities, and strove
to realize them. He was not blind to the hell hereupon
earth, nor content to postpone heaven to a
visionary future. And, therefore, I say, it seems tome
passing strange he should have had his mind so
much occupied for seventy years with dreams."

Ah," observed Mrs. Dayrell, " every active-minded
man must have some hobby as a relief to

more serious pursuits ; and mythology or religion
was Mr. Charles Dayrell's. But he did also concern
himself, as you said, very greatly with the things of
this life, and with the poor wretches who live
without joy in the world."

Yes, yes ; indeed," replied Lady Stella. " In all
that work he played, indeed, a noble part. It is
the bondage, the delusions under which so good a
man seemed to live, that I venture very humbly to
deplore."

"But," I replied, repressing strong and very
painful feelings, roused perhaps, more by my partisanship
with the writer of the lecture, than by
the then depth of my otsti religious convictions,
but my Lady Stella, have you not yourself told
me both formerly and now, how you have delighted
in the glorious faith and worship of those early
Greeks ? Have you not said it was a great want
of the soul to have something to look up to, to
adore ? "

Yes, because with the Greeks it was practically
the worship of Xature, of the Beautiful, the Awful,
and Sublime, all personified by the imagination in
concrete and exquisite forms. Besides whatever
they may have done, we can believe in the reality
of such beings as much or as little as we like, and
no harm comes from the muchness or the littleness.
But it is not so with your theology. ' He that
believeth not shall be damned,' a fate which they
also incur, we are told, who partake of the Lord's

Supper without due worthiness — the unbelieving are
tied, hand and foot, poor things, along with the
abominable and murderers, and all are cast into the
lake of fire and brimstone together."

I think it has been shown," said Dayrell, '' that
there ought to be a different interpretation put on
those passages from what you suppose. But leaving
that, I have heard it asked, and it may be well to
consider, whence you can get any sufficient sanctions
for morality and virtue if you bid men
abandon their belief in God. What is the meaning
of that word which some of the best men that ever
lived call the noblest and most awful ever uttered
—Duty. What is it ? "

Oh, ' a stream of tendency in the human soul
making for righteousness' — an innate apprehension
of things concerning right and wrong. But nevertheless,
do not for a moment suppose that I can
believe, with certain philosophers, it is merely the
result of fortuitous molecular action, or of experience,
or calculations of self-interest. That is a
vile notion."

"But then, whence and why this stream of
tendency — this innate apprehension ? "

"I know not — none can know. . Do not look
shocked. Remember, dear friend, I was brought up
in the strictest sect of Low Churches, in the
Evangelical faith, pure and undefiled, nurtured on the
39 Articles, the ' Anxious Inquirer,' the Shorter
Catechism, and the Athanasian Creed— Ugh ! " and

the fair speaker shuddered, then rapidly continued —
And as for Christian worship, Mr. Dayrell, why, most
of the church-goers of my acquaintance, seem tome
to be inspired, in their devotions, considerably
more by fear of an avenging deity or a craving for
his favour and rewards hereafter — {' other-worldliness '
as somebody well calls it) — than either by love or
adoration. Ah, you think me very naughty, I
know, but I fear if the truth were told it would be
seen that half of you don't even believe, fear.,
desire, or worship anything at all while you and
the priest are gabbling over your prayers." — (The
Dayrell ladies winced a little and smiled faintly at
these amiable remarks, but didn't protest ; so the
lady went on.) — "Now my Christian friends, pray
forgive me, as your creed bids you — but it is a comfort
for once and away to speak the truth. And
at all events, I must say, and you won't so much
mind my saying, that of real worship such as Byron
felt on the Alps by moonlight, or on the lake of
Geneva, and as he makes me feel when I read
much of his poetry, or such adoration as I have,
and perhaps we all have, felt when listening to
some grand strains of music — of that real worship
most of your church-goers do not seem to have a
notion."

Oh, oh ! " from two or three of the listeners.

Well, not when they are at church at all events,
and doing what they call saying their prayers.
Now you know it's true, dear Mrs. Dayrell ; and yet
VOL. L 11

they vaunt their religion as if it were the only true
worship and devotion under the sun ! There ! Now
may I go further, while I'm about it ? "

*' Yes," replied Mrs. Dayrell, with an air of resignation.
" Better ' cleanse your bosom of all this
perilous stuff,' once for all."

Well, then," resumed Stella, " I must confess
that the God of the Hebrews, ah and even the
Christians' God no less, are hateful to me ! * Glad
tidings of great joy,' indeed ! a gospel of gladness
! What ! — Why apart from all the other sad
and miserable doctrines of that so-called evangelical
faith, how can it be ' good news ' for man that such a
standard of perfection is offered to us as your gospel
contains, and that we have to reach it or ' depart
into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his
angels,' where *the worm diet not, and the fire is
not quenched.' . It is of course very true that
it would be well for us if we could all be generous,
virtuous and noble, and very sad that we are so
base and selfish and vile — but tell me, before you
scold me for my heresies, who made us what weare
? It is not my will, it is not the will of nine-tenths
of the wretches who live in daily defiance
of the ten or two commandments, to live as we do.
It is not preaching we want. What is the use of
setting before us a great example or a perfect rule
of life ? We cannot follow the one or obey the
other. Then these good people, like Mr. Dayrell
(senior), talk of walking with God, as if it were not

only a duty but a great privilege and comfort.
Yet that always surprises me, for they generally
speak of God as if He were constantly ' spying out '
their ' ways,' watching to see if they do anything
contrary to His commands, and ready to rush down
on them with all sorts of heavy penalties, physical
and moral, when in their ignorance or frailty they
transgress."

My sisters by this time, had considerately found
some excuse for taking Miss Grey to the other end
of the drawing-room, to look at some rare engravings,
I think, which Ellerslie had brought down and
left behind him " for the ladies." My mother was
evidently thinking she had better stop the discussion,
when Stella, who was working extraordinarily
hard at a bit of embroidery, without raising her
head went on in her excitement :

How any sane person can find comfort in

humble companionship with such a being Oh, yes,

I know, my dear madam, what religious people
would say, but look at their most cherished theological
tenet — the doctrine of Atonement. Is not
that, even on their own showing, simply a heathen
device for protecting us from the wrath of an
avenging god, and satisfying his justice, by an act
of frightful injustice ? It may be all true — I can't
say. Pagan sinners, all the world over, have had
profound faith in it. It may be true. There are
many terrible mysteries in the world. But don't
ask me to love this fearful god of yours, or wonder

11—2

if I'm surprised that a man like your ancestor, Mr.
Wilfrid, could find strength or peace in * walking '
with Him."

I had never heard Lady Stella speak out so
plainly before. All she had said in former days on
these subjects was nothing compared to this dynamite
business. I used to think she said such things
rather as a flighty bravado, than as the result of
serious conviction. But there was no mistaking her
meaning now. After a few minutes I just said
pretty calmly:

"I rather think the revered ancestor in question
had a very different notion of the nature and
character of God from what you have imbibed.
Lady Stella. To him God was always the kind and
loving Friend, the tender compassionate Father, as
far as I understood him. According to his view —
I don't give it as mine, I have none to give — I
should say Christ lived and died not to protect us
from this Father but to draw us to Him — that this
was the very purpose for which God sent him iiito
the world." But it was no use. I didn't feel up to
saying much more. My mother, by way of a
diversion, asked my sisters to give us a little music,
and rose to ring the bell for candles. I lay quiet,
thinking hard, and didn't hear a note of the
music.

I knew that both Lady Stella and my mother
and sisters held what would be called somewhat
extreme views on all these subjects, but her

vehement protest at this time half-thinned me. It
was the more startling, because I felt how much
truth there was in what she urged, and 1 could not
answer her. Yet I was sure there was another side
to the argument, and that a half truth is often a greatlie.
I threw myself back on the one whole truth I
thought I had fully grasped, and making a last
attempt, said presently, with pretended composure :

"I cannot follow you now in all you urge. Lady
Stella, but let me rest on one declaration you made
that we must look up to, worship something. Yet
a thing is below a person. How can we look upto,
adore it, without infinite degradation? You
acknowledge — a mind like yours cannot ignore — the
need of worship. Must there not then be, a Persona
Being, infinitely above ourselves, worthy of our
adoration — somewhere in the Universe ? "

"Mr. Dayrell, I would think life itself not too
great a sacrifice to gain an absolute certainty, a
knowledge of such a Being."

She said this with more earnestness, almost
solemnity, than I had ever known her manifest.
Presently she continued in a lighter tone :

'•' I feel the force of what you say about persons
and things. When I was a child I could, and did,
love intensely, a wooden darling of a doll — couldn't
either love or worship it now. Couldn't even love
my pet here, could I ? " she said, caressing Jack,
whom she had brought, she said, to amuse me, "if
he were not a real person, far above an inanimate

thing f But I admit, oh, Jackoo, thou art as yet
hardly enough superior to myself to be worshipped."

Was it not one of the darkest curses of slavery,"
I observed, stifling a little jealousy of Jackoo, " that
it degraded man to the condition of a thing — a
chattel ? "

"But," rejoined Stella, "what, after all, is the
difference ? What is a person ? "

"What you feel and know yourself to be. Lady
Stella — a being possessed of Self-consciousness, Reason,
Memory, Will. In seeking God, in loving Him,
we believe that he is like ourselves, or rather that
in these respects we are like Him — made in His
image. You love that singularly-favoured being on
your knee more than the wooden doll just so far
as you have emerged from the rudimentary condition
of childhood and savage life, and in proportion ashe
resembles you (save the mark !) mentally and
morally more than your doll did. But a higher
development of your nature might lead to your
loving Man, and a higher still to loving God."

"Ah, my dear preceptor," replied the lady, "if
you only would and could effect that development I

should almost worship " " you," she was going to

say, but paused ; then added, " Oh, that it were possible
! But unfortunately I have read ' Mills' Logic,'
and 'Bain's Philosophy,' Herbert Spencer, Tyndall,
Huxley and Manse, and I kiioiv that it is impossible
we should have that knowledge this side
the grave, whatever may be revealed on the other.

I do not, no, not for a moment, deny there may be
such a Being. But I cannot, none can, know Him
even if there be one. Therefore I cannot believe
in, cannot worship Him. I will, I do, indeed I do,
worship Something of ineffable Beauty and Grandeur.
I do look up to — I know not what. Beyond this
I cannot go. Pray, do not urge me "

She paused abruptly and covered her face with
her hands. Her cousin, to whom what she had
heard of this conversation seemed to be not a little
painful, now came forward saying that their carriage
had come, and so ended our discussion. We all
took leave of one another almost in silence. Xot
too soon, for I was in a tempest — and a temper.

I dreamed that nio^ht I was wandering in a charming
wood, carpeted with flowers, alone with Stella,
our hearts full of love and gladness, when suddenly
a black sullen pool of water, and then a dark yawning
gulf opened between us, and we were parted in
anguish. I woke and believed my dream was true.
Bat, thank God, it hadn't come to anything like
that yet. The agitation of the previous evening
passed away with the morning cheerfulness, and
when we all met next time, Stella, by her gentle,
sympathetic manner, seemed so desirous of effacing
any painful impression on my mind that I was profoundly
grateful to her for having troubled it a night
or two before. She brought her work near my
couch, and seemed bent on arranging both my
thoughts and my pillows more com fort a]:>ly. While

doing SO she just whispered, " Will you forgive me ? "
adding, with a pretty, playful smile, " And convert
me." Then, still in a low tone, " Indeed, I have
been thinking much of what you said about a Person
being higher than a thing, and that worship of aught
that is lower, meaner than ourselves is degrading.
Thank you, Mr. Dayrell, for that argument, at all
events."

I suppose I looked very happy as she said this
and she went on, a bright up-looking expression on
her face :

There's a passage of wonderful truth and depth,
from the believing point of view, in one of the
books in your Bible which has often haunted me,
But without faith it is impossible to please God.
Poor he that cometh to God must believe that He is,
and that He is the Rewarder of them that diligently
seek Him.' No doubt, no doubt. The very
b isis of all religion is an assured belief, I admit —
first, in the existence of a Personal God, and then
in His caring for us — for each of us individually, that
is. But it is just that faith which I haven't got —
never shall get. I cannot believe in what is so
utterly beyond my reach," and the old dreary look
which had more than once pained me came over
her. "But," she whispered, "don't let us quarrel
about it. I must love and worship. Help me."

I answered by pressing her hand, which she did
not immediately withdraw, and for the moment I
UD dutifully wished my mother and sisters were abiding

in the City of Palms on the banks of the Jordan.
Then we had a reading aloud from the newspaper,
a little chit-chat and general literary talk till it was
time to part.

The following evening, however, those excellent
ladies did go — not to Jericho, but to a dinner party
about three or four miles away, which would have
answered my desires quite as well only that they
were able to return so much sooner than they could
have done from the Promised Land. It was the first
evening, I believe, my mother and sisters had
been out together since my accident ; but Lady
Stella and her cousin had promised to come in and
keep me company.

*****

The next two or three pages of Wilfrid Dayrell's
journal are so blurred, blotted, and interlined that
much was nearly, and some quite, illegible. What
appears to have taken place, when thrown into the
due narrative, picturesque form, was this.

After tea, the three young folks were conversing
about London gaieties, and Dayrell had been speaking
with considerable vivacity, for him, of the charms
of London concerts, and especially of the opera, when
anything thoroughly good appeared in that line.

Are you really fond, then, of good music ? "
asked Stella.

*' Am I ? " replied the sufferer, turning on his
couch. " Eat her. I have loved it more intensely
than any other created thing I know of — that is to

say, the music I love at all, if that's what you call
good music. But for a long time," he added in a
lowered voice, "I couldn't bear any music."

"Shall I play or sing to you a little now? But
I don't know that you will care for my music, I
have scarcely practised at all for an age."

'' I have never heard any singing or playing," he
answered, " which I liked so well. But I haven't
dared to ask you."

She sat down to the piano and played first a piece
from a Sonata of Beethoven's, for which he thanked
her and said he liked it, but he was evidently not
enthusiastic. Then she played an old and beautiful
air with variations, called " Huntsman, rest," which
she declared ought to suit his condition exactly, and
then wandered off into those exquisite variations by
Thalers on " Home, sweet Home," and the wounded
huntsman la" entranced in ecstasy. When Lady
Stella had finished he could scarcely speak his thanks ;
but as she came back to her little work-table by his
couch she saw how much he was affected as he put
out his wasted hand in token of his thanks. After
a few moments he said softly :

*' I was thinking while you were playing that
there would be a home for some of us, some day,
out among yonder stars, and how pleasant it would
be there to rest from all this weary pain, and perhaps
begin a new and brighter life — very sweet and
blessed if only the beloved ones of earth were with
me there." But though the words seemed to be

looking forward in hope, the tone in which they
were uttered was so sad and weary that they went
to his listener's heart with an aching pain. He had
not let go her hand, and now he felt a hot tear
dropping on it.

*****

Lady Stella soon rose and went to the piano
again, saying :

We mustn't let you be excited, or we shall get
into disgrace when your mother returns. I learnt
a little song some time since which I thought might
one day please you, for it seems to refer to a touching
episode in your grandfathers memoirs, which I
have read more than once and again, when his soul
wandered upwards among those far-off stars, of which
you spoke just now."

Then she began singing —

Can I forget that night in June,
Upon the Danube river "

mien she had concluded, she said apologetically :
'' It's dreadfully sentimental, I know, but "

But very, very sweet," murmured the young
man, and then added, " You don't mind a little sentiment,
then?"

Not if it pleases you or sends you to sleep,"
replied the lady, with that fascinating smile free
from all cynicism, seldom seen on her face, but, once
seen, never forgotten. As she resumed her seat,
she bent again towards him, saying :

I am so glad I can give you a little enjoyment.

May I come and play or sing to you sometimes,
now I know what kind of music you like.
But not if my poor trumpeting makes you sad."

If it does, believe me, dear Lady Stella, it also
makes me glad. And the sadness is good for my
complaint," he added, as a wan smile stole over
his face. But she knew that he meant in someway
it was good for his spiritual life, and she
shrank from approaching that region of his thought,
for it bordered on all the religious emotions and
speculations in which she could not share —
from which she felt — how painfully? — repelled.

When his mother came home that night, and
went up on tip-toe to see if her son was sleeping
quietly, she found his pulse so high and his cheeks
so flushed, that she said his amateur nurses had
managed very badly, and mentally vowed they
should not be allowed to wait on him by themselves
again.

During the interchange of views between Lady
Stella and young Dayrell above recorded, it was
plain that though cousin Frances kindly and discreetly
tried to efface herself, she was in a great
fidget, and this probably had a sobering effect on
the other two romantic young people. Hence
Dayrell found that banishment of his own relatives
was not sufficient for his satisfaction, and
included Stella's cousin also in his prayer referring
to the East.

Miss Grey did indeed depart, as soon as their

carriage was announced ; but unfortunately Lady
Stella had to go with her, leaving the descendant
of the Oriel Bacchanal in a very melancholy and
depressed condition, both of mind and body, quite
unworthy of his ancestry. Hence '* illa lachrymal "
when Mrs. Dayrell returned.

For the remainder of this narrative, where it has not
been supplied from Wilfrid Dayrell's journal, Lady
Stella's diary and memory are chiefly responsible.

It appears then that Miss Frances did not un-burthen
her mind that night, and her cousin was
silent as the grave. But the next morning she
spoke out — beginning :

Stella ! "

The young lady addressed was in a reverie, her
thoughts were not at Hurstleigh Manor at all, but
by the couch of a crippled invalid, a few miles
further off.

Stella ! will you attend ? I have something
important to remark."

Say on, ingenuous child," replied her cousin,
bringing back her thoughts, but evidently listening
with languid interest.

I think, Stella, you are much to blame "

Not possible," replied the accused carelessly.

In flirting with that poor young man in the
unblushing manner you have lately done."

I think I have heard that remark from you
before," replied the criminal, still with indifference,
not to say contempt.

And will again," said Frances, warming to her
work, " and a good deal worse, if you don't mend
your ways."

*' What a fearful fate awaits me," murmured
Stella.

And if that has no effect," continued Frances,
I shall send for my mother and go back to my
kith and kin, leaving you alone to all your wickedness
and subsequent remorse. I won't stay hereto
witness and condone, or sanction, your cruel
behaviour."

*' Ah ; now you do frighten me a little bit. Don't
go, or it will be so dull and lonely that I shall
certainly marry the first fool that makes me an
offer. Even now you see the country is so dull
that I am obliged to relieve its tedium by a little
harmless ' affaire de coeur which, of course, the
other party knows is merely a bit of fun — ' pour
passer le temps I ' "

Fie on you, Stella ! You knoiu he thinks more
of it than that — he may be a hopeless nincompoop
and crippled for life, perhaps doomed to an early
death, and marriage, of course, can never be for
him. But you are tearing out his heart, and
digging for him an early grave. . . ."

Stella did not immediately reply, but looked out
of the window, then answered with a well-concealed
effort.

*' Dear me ; why only the other day you described
me as a victim — a lovely humming bird, was it

not ? fascinated by a deadly but beautiful rattlesnake.
Well, the young gentleman does rattle on,
I allow, and fast enough to give sufficient warning."

"Let me give you warning, dear foolish, headstrong
yet beloved wretch ! " exclaimed Frances.
And if nothing else will have any effect, what do
you think your father will have to say in this
matter ? Ask yourself seriously what Sir Michael
would think about it if he knew all that is going
on between you two Bedlamite."

For a moment Stella changed colour, and did
look very serious indeed. Recovering herself
quickly, she replied, coldly at first :

*' Much-esteemed cousin, wisest of thy sex, I

came of age just a year ago, and your threats

' . . . . pass by me like the idle-n-ind,
"Which I regard not.'

Possibly you have also heard that quotation before."
Then suddenly changing her tone she exclaimed :
"but, my dear little coz, I'll make believe,
very much indeed, that all you say is Bible-truth,
which, after all, is not going very
far, and I'll be as discreet as — Juliet's nurse ;
which is saying a good deal, and ought to content
you. But, oh ! you know I do love intellect, and
he is so clever even in his present dilapidated
condition ! " She kissed her cousin demonstratively,
and walked into the garden — thoughtfully, perhaps
penitently — saying to herself, " But he hasn't quite
won his spurs yet in intellectual fields. That little

volume of poems, nevertheless, was fall of
beauty and power. And then — that picture,
In the gloaming ! ' . . . And oh ! how profoundly
interesting all he has been saying and
reading about his grandfather, and all that the
old man said when he was a young man about that
glorious poet, Byron ! of whom I wish I knew a
little more. Would I had been born in the
days of chivalry ! in the ages of faith, or in the
Renaissance ; for poets and philosophers, as well
as preux chevaliers, swarmed as abundantly
then as frogs in the time of Pharaoh, and wooed
and worshipped loyally the weaker sex. . . .
Height ! Life now is either frivolous or sad."

But whatever blame might attach to the lady,
surely it was in no spirit of chivalry that young
Dayrell was now allowing himself to cherish his
ardent passion. Had he not once felt that the
mere fact of her being an heiress was a huge
obstacle in the way of his suit, even when he was
full of health and buoyant life? How could he
now reconcile with any standard of Duty or Chivalry,
or with anything but the merest selfishness, his
behaviour in trying to interest this bewitching
girl in his thoughts, in himself? He never tried to
reconcile it. He knew their mutual friendship was
doing him a world of good. The fact may have been,
also, that he had been rendered utterly reckless by
the blow that had fallen on him, and when people
become reckless they necessarily also become selfish.

So as he gained freedom from bodily suffering, he
surrendered himself, unthinking of results, uncaring
for consequences, to the only alleviation of his often
very grievous pain of heart and mind, yielded to his
intense desire so long and ardently cherished for
Stella's love and sympathy, and silenced all stings
of conscience or remorse.

vol . I. 12

But that peerless maiden did not go to play or
sing to Wilfrid Dayrell, either the next day or the day
after ; and when they were all once again assembled
at his mother's her manner was stately and reserved.
He felt the chill that had unmistakably come over
the ladies from Hurstleigh. His mother had been
reading aloud bits from the newspaper, and looking
up, remarked :

How wonderfully cold it is for April, considering,
too, that the wind is west."

Yes," replied one of her daughters, " but you
see that is accounted for now. Great icebergs
reported in the Atlantic, you read a minute
ago."

"I was sure there was something of that sort,"
said Dayrell, looking grimly towards Lady Stella,
and then (drawing himself proudly into his shell)
added " Yet the west wind ought always to be genial
and refreshing — would be, I suppose, but for the
icebergs."

The lady could not quite conceal a faint blush
under Dayrell's scrutinizing gaze ; and to turn the
current, said in a sprightly tone :

Have you nothing more to read to us, Mr.

Dayrell, about your ancestors researches concerning
that tumultuous Titan — Carlyle's bete noire — the
English Lord ' ? '*

Yes, I have found the account of Mr. Dayrell's
visit to him at Ravenna."

"Oh, I am glad," exclaimed Stella. "Of all
things I wanted to hear what you could tell us
about that visit. Does he write it himself?"

Xo. It is in the handwriting of the same Oxford
friend, Mr. Eivers, who wrote out that lecture
on Byron, and to whom, I suppose, Mr. Dayrell at
some time or other told the recollections embodied
in the memoir. Shall I read ? "

Chorus of assent.

Here it is then."

Recollections of a journey to Ravenna in the
year 1819, preserved and transmitted by a
friend of the traveller."

After narrating his journey through Switzerland
and across the Alps, Dayrell describes his emotions
on entering Italy and realizing the passionate
dream of his boyhood and youth, while still under
the witching spell of Lord Byron's poetry and the
glamour of his character. He had to wander about
the glorious historic scenes of Italian vicissitudes
for a few weeks, until the day which the poet had
named for receiving him. But at length the time
arrived when he was to present himself at the
Byronic shrine.

12—2

So on to Eavenna now sped our hero ; seldom a
day passing without coming on scenes made memorable
by their past history or enchanting by their
present beauty, and where, had he not been possessed
by one overpowering desire, he would have gladly
lingered for days or weeks. Whenever he could
get decent riding horses he used them in preference
to the " carozza," but at Essen a little
village not many miles from Parma, he was delayed
a couple of days from inability to get either.
To work off his restlessness Charlie started off on
foot, as soon as he had got some refreshment at
the humble sterna, to explore the wild and
beautiful hills and woods among which it was
placed. As he roamed through a rather more rugged
and thickly wooded district than any previously
reached, and was forcing his way through some brushwood,
he suddenly found a musket-barrel at his
chest and another pointed at his head, while two
rather ferocious-looking peasants demanded in hoarse
and threatening tones what he wanted there. The
inquiry relieved him of the apprehension that he
was about to be robbed and murdered by bandits.
Fortunately he had learnt just enough Italian to
explain. The words, " Amico mio, sono Angles,"
had a magical effect, and his statement respecting
his present circumstances was received with the
greatest courtesy. More peasants, all armed, soon
came up. He was conducted to an open space
surrounded by trees and brushwood where at least

fifty picturesque fierce-looking fellows were drilling,
or reclining on the turf. Dayrell had walked
into the centre of a revolutionary band of Italian
Carbonari, and was welcomed as if he had brought
them tidings that one of their domestic or foreign
oppressors had been assassinated. The adventure
was delightful to Charlie in a high degree. He
soon made himself thoroughly at home with them,
and of course they were delighted with him, particularly
when they found he could speak their
language. He sat talking with one or more of
the leaders till dusk, and then partook of their
humble meal, while they never wearied of pouring
forth the melancholy tale of all the cruel oppression
from which they were suffering, and asking
his intercession on their behalf with his countrymen
wherever, in Italy or the Universe, they might
be found. Charlie was lavish of sympathy and had
difficulty in restraining himself from equal prodigality
of promises and cash ; for he knew how
ardently Lord Byron had interested himself in
this oppressed nation ; and even in his rapid journey
he had already seen and heard enough of the
degradation and sufferings inflicted on the Italian
people by Austrian conquerors and their own rulers,
to be filled with an ardent desire to see them
emancipated from their double yoke. But until
that evening he had heard little of the efforts
and preparations these " hereditary bondsmen " were
making, "themselves," to "strike the blow" for

their national deliverance. It was a stirring and
memorable scene for Dayrell — one of those epochs
in his life which usher a man into a wholly new
world, and perhaps, by their practical as well as
rousing character, colour his whole future life. Here
he was face to face, for the first time in his life,
with that life and death struggle between Law-and
Liberty, Freedom and Tyranny, of which in its
milder romantic and metaphorical forms he had
been engaged in, and dreaming of, all his life. He
had worshipped Freedom — passionately craved for it
in almost every available or impossible form since
he had left the cradle —longed to transgress all
bounds, and to strike off the captive's chains wherever
he beheld them. Don Quixote's experience
with the galley-slaves had indeed taught him a
lesson, which, like other lessons conveyed by that
immortal satire, struck him at first with a kind of
sharp pain. It was long indeed before he could
sally harmonize the undeniable truth of those
teachings with his own enthusiasm and romantic
dreams. But he did at last ; and was a much wiser
man in consequence of reading the history of the
Knight of La ]\Iancha and his Squire. Before
leaving his revolutionary friends Charlie had won all
their hearts; and while abstaining from any vociferous
salutation as he departed, for fear of
attracting attention, they wrung his hand, and
looked in his fiice, with an earnestness which
augured well for their conduct when the time nigh

come for proving them. He emptied his purse into
the hand of their leader " for the good of the
cause " and departed amid a shower of " Bene /
Bene J " and " Adclio, Signor J " under the escort of
two of the band ; for it was now too dark to find
his way, unaided, back to the inn.

This little rencontre subsequently turned out
greatly to his advantage for the main object he
then had in view.

Throughout a sultry day Charlie was told every
hour that over the next hill he would be able to
see the celebrated woods and towers of Eavenna.
At last he reached the spot whence they could be
really seen. As he stood for a moment gazing on
the distant scene, crowded with ancient and modern
memories, he said his heart beat so violently that
he almost gasped for breath. Pulling himself together,
he was soon rattling down an incline, threading
the fringe of the dusky pine-woods, till his driver
halted before the portico of an imposing but too
venerable edifice, once a palace, now an hotel.

Bath, dinner, toilet despatched, Charlie sought
the shrine.

'' His lordship is out riding at present, Signor. He
generally goes out in the evening. He would rather
see you later in the evening, I think, Signor. I
believe he is expecting you."

Charlie was immensely relieved by this last
sentence of his lordship's valet, and inwardly offered
thanks to Mr. Hobhouse, who, it appears, had given

him an introduction when Charlie called on him
in London.

When he again mounted the steps of the Palazzo
Gruiccioli, with a palpitating heart and full of
a nameless anxiety, he was not a little startled,
yet considerably relieved, by hearing a musical voice
exclaiming in rather a jovial tone :

Oh ho ! Here comes our young Oxford Bacchanal
! "

Then the noble poet appeared on the scene, and,
holding out his hand with a curious mixture of
frankness and shyness, gave the visitor a cordial
welcome. There was something in the whole tone
and manner of his reception which at once put
Charlie quite at his ease, and somewhat disenchanted
him, — as if a lowly worshipper at the shrine of the
Ephesian Diana had suddenly beheld the goddess
descend from her pedestal and come dancing towards
him.

Glad to see you, young gentleman. Hobhouse
told me you were coming. I'm all alone here.
Where are you staying? At the hotel! Oh, gammon
! don't stow yourself in that wretched hole.
Come up here. I'll send for your traps. I'm d — d
busy just now, and keep queer hours ; but if you'll
put up with my ways and keep me company for a
few days, it will be a real pleasure. . . ."

And so he rattled on, till Charlie began to doubt
if he were really awake, or only lost in a strange,
delightful, and curiously perplexing dream. He

soon found it was decidedly a charming reality.
The fact was that Byron had been prepared to take
to young Dayrell not only in consequence of all
that Hobhouse had communicated, and his own
natural kindness of heart, especially towards h\s
own countrymen if they were gentlemen, but also
by what Lord Clare had written to him after that
visit to Oxford, when Charlie was still " in honour
borne aloft " for his performance in " The Bacchanals."
So, after a few inquiries about his guest's experiences
of travel, the answers to which he heard without
much attention, he dashed into the subject
which was much more interesting both to himself
and to Dayrell.

Dinner was served at 8 p.m., and when the meal
was over. Lord Byron began at once on the Dionysiac
myth and the Greek drama. He seemed to
know little or nothing about the play, but the legend
had evidently once fascinated him, and he was
delighted when he found Dayrell had got both the
play and Mr. Milman's translation of the choruses in
his portmanteau. He referred more than once with
a kind of boyish delight to Charlie's endeavour to
get live snakes wherewith to adorn his girdle and
head gear, as leader of the chorus, and stigmatized
the manager and actors as " d — d fools " for objecting
to their introduction.

*' I tell you what, Coryphaeus ! / won't object
to them if you'll dress up here and recite the
Chorus.' There are lots of snakes in these woods.

and we could have a splendid turn-out. I won't
guarantee they are all harmless, but that don't
matter ! "

He kept up the conversation till long after midnight,
by which time, in spite of the extraordinary
charm of being in Lord Byron's presence, poor
Charlie, after a long day's travel, could hardly keep
his eyes open, and was compassionately dismissed
to bed.

'• Breakfast when you please," said his host. " I
don't take mine till 2 p.m."

Percy Bessie Shelley, writing to a friend after
spending some days with Byron, says : " He is
cheerful, frank and witty. His more serious conversation
is a sort of intoxication ; men are held by
it as by a spell." What, then, must it have been
to women capable of appreciating it ? But although
Charlie was not immediately admitted to that inner
sanctum, his happiness may easily be imagined.
For, as Shelley truly said, no words could describe
the charm of the poet's conversation and manners
when he was really pleased with a guest ; while anyone
who knew the profound sympathy which Dayrell
felt for all that was beautiful and best in Byron's
deeper nature, could understand what the happiness
must have been of finding himself ere long admitted
to share in the poet's inner life. It is well known
now that Byron habitually wore an outside shell of
cynicism or levity to protect the marvellously sensitive,
poetic, loving, and sentimental nature which

constituted the essence of his moral being. True,
the shell was part of himself — grew from a very
decided and powerful element in his intellectual
nature, without which he would have been a far
weaker man ; but probably nothing gave him truer
happiness than to find himself in a companionship
where he could safely come out of that shell and
give his higher instincts free play.

The combination in Dayrell of a marvellous
amount of enthusiasm for all in which Byron most
delighted, with manly simplicity and the utter
absence of anything approaching to egotism, vanity,
or cant — all which speedily became apparent to his
host — opened Byron's generous heart unreservedly.
It was the style of character in which he most
delighted ; and the first sign of his satisfaction was
his dispensing with much of that badinage and
flighty banter, in more modern days called "chaff,"
which he was accustomed to bestow on his friends.
When this change took place, Charlie saw that
his host had previously been acting a part, or say,
rather, had been concealing his real self beneath
a superficial manner. But the next sign of perfect
confidence was that he let the profound melancholy,
which formed so sad and striking a
characteristic of his inner self, have its way. He
seemed to feel instinctively that in Dayrell's hearty
manly healthfulness of spirit there was some healing
balm, however brief its influence might befor
his own sick soul. And then he also saw

that Dayrell was not a fellow familiarity with
whom would breed license ; that he was not only
a thorough gentleman, of which, indeed, his
birth and University training gave full assurance,
but that he was possessed by a spirit of profound
reverence for himself. His manner, even when
most at his ease with the noble poet, was always
respectful, and yet self-respecting ; and so far
unequivocally deferential as was consistent with
the status of a gentleman admitted to familiar
converse with one whom he knew to be his
superior in rank and years, and immeasurably
in intellect. This was a great point in his
favour. For though Byron was fairly free from
vulgar pride of birth, he was rather sensitive as
to the recognition of his rank, which was thought
more of in those times than, perhaps, in these
days ; and while delighting in perfect social freedom
with intimate friends, he shrank with
sensitive disgust from any approach to unauthorized
and intrusive familiarity.

But Charlie did not find that he could get
much talk with his host on the topics which
interested him most deeply, and of which he had
spoken so earnestly in his lecture in the Common
Room at Oriel. Of course he approached the
subject of the poet's works with great caution,
and Byron always answered any remarks or questions
he ventured to propound, with kindness, and
for a little time, perhaps, with interest. But he

soon saw that the poet was getting bored, and
that he must give it up. One evening Byron
asked him a number of questions about himself,
his parents, and home ; seemed intensely interested
in the way Charlie spoke of his mother and of
all that she had been to him ; broke off the
conversation first with a sigh that seemed as if
he were giving up the ghost, and saying, " Happy

fellow! Would to God that I " and then

finished off with an oath, as if to conceal the
feelings of which he was ashamed.

Charlie's daring experiences in an open boat
during the storm off Naples greatly interested
Lord Byron, and led him to recount some of his
own adventures in that line, all which led up to
descriptions of various feats in swimming, to
Boatswain " the Newfoundland, " Max " the retriever,
&c. But the great success in these talks
for Charlie was when he mentioned, with all his
enthusiasm for liberty, his rencontre with the Carbonari
near Kossena. Byron's face lighted up with
extraordinary animation as he asked all particulars,
and then talked for hours on the miserable condition
of Italy under her tyrants, and of the efforts
then being made, which he was strenuously aiding,
to throw off that intolerable yoke. All this drew
the two men closer together than any of their
previous intercourse, and Dayrell felt as if he had
actually made or found a friend in the higher sense
of the term, where he had expected only to behold

an Olympian deity, indifferent, careless, and have
to worship at a respectful distance.

He knew but little about, and dwelt less upon,
what lay behind and beneath that glorious demigod's
nobler nature and higher life. And Byron
had no desire to expose that side of his heart and
life whereof he was unutterably weary and ashamed.
If ever a man went down into the depths of vice,
loathing his own baseness, struggling desperately
against the overwhelming force of the fiery passions
that have too often swayed the heart of manit
was Dayrell's kindly host in the Palazzo
Guiccioli. Nothing is now plainer than that the
sins and excesses into which Byron was again and
again betrayed were not only opposed to, resisted
by, his better self with a strength of which feebler
natures can form no conception, but that his
degradation and vice were abhorrent to his very
soul.

When Charles Dayrell visited him, that intensely-ardent
craving to love and to be loved again, which,
as Dayrell urged in his lecture, was by far the strongest
element in his nature, had at last found an object
on which it could rest in happy thankfulness and
peace, a love which filled and satisfied his soul, " as
far," thought Charlie, " as any human soul can be
satisfied with only human love."

But even now the fatal poison-drop still was in his
cup. The Countess Guiccioli, then residing at a villa
belonging to her brother Count Grana (about fifteen

miles from Eavenna), so worthy, so eminently fitted
in all other respects, to be the object of all his
passionate devotion, was already married. True, that
marriage was itself a grievous sin. For she had been
taken from a convent when little noise than a child,
married to a man of sixty who appears to have been
of morose disposition, utterly unfitted to secure or
retain the affection of a young susceptible girl with
the fervent nature of a Juliet in all its beauty and
passion. True, also that if ever there was a man to
whom a woman would feel powerfully attracted it
was this same poet who craved so ardently himself
for love and who could love so ardently in return
true also that in the land where he was born
it was an age of gross licentiousness, while in the
lady's native land among the upper • classes the
marriage tie was little more than a name. Nevertheless
the mournful fact remains. And no amount
of love and honour for the poet, no amount of palliation
and excuse for his conduct can erase it from
the Recording Angel's book — unless far other tears
than the angel's can at length remove the stain.

Dayrell, long before he left England, had of comes
heard stories about the great poet which gave him
intense pain ; but he had learnt to believe less than
half what the world said in such cases, and to know
that one story is good till another is told. With the
natural instinct of a pure and self-respecting mind he
had avoided as much as possible listening to any of
this gossip, greatly disliking the whole subject, and

not considering it either his duty, or his business to
inquire into Lord Byron's private life. He had no
commission to sit in judgment on his character and
conduct, except in that general way described in his
lecture at Oriel. Hence he had never felt repelled
from his idol, as unquestionably he would have been
had he known all the facts which have since been
made fully known.

Lord Byron on the other hand soon saw that
*' young Dayrell Dithyrambus," as he called him, was
not one of those rakish young fellows whom his soul
loathed all the more because he had so often been
drawn against his will into their ways ; and hence all
the better part of his nature and character felt free to
open out genially at times towards his young countryman.
He asked him on one occasion all about his
early life, delighted in hearing about the New Forest
and the gypsies, rattled away about Sherwood Forest
and the poor Nottingham frame-breakers and Luddites,
received with pretended nonchalance but real gratification
Charlie's earnest and heartfelt thanks for the
generous efforts he had made both in Parliament and
out of it, on their behalf, brought back the conversation
to Dayrell's antecedents, and at last with a
curiously fascinating shyness and merry twinkle of his
dark eyes asked him if he had ever been in love.
The change which came over the poor youth's face and
manner told its own tale, as with an effort at composure
he answered in a low tone :

Yes— but "

I see," said his host, taking Dayrell's hand for an
instant, in a sympathetic and melancholy fashion.
*the old story. But she may yet "

No — married."

"God help you!" cried the poet, throwing away
the hand he had taken and rising from his seat.
*i'm sorry for you, Dayrell," he said, pacing the

room in agitation. " I am — by . But, Dayrell

be warned! — don't — for the love of Heaven, done
let that disappointment drive you into the hog-styes —
or into any other infernal devilries — hasty marriage
among them, the most accursed of all. You've not
yet gone to the devil, I can see that. Keep out of
his claws and some day you'll meet with the true
goddess, and then you'll love her with all your heart,
and have no damnable let or hindrance to make you
cut your throat in sheer disgust and despair. Though,
remember, if it ever comes to that, pistols are better
than steel — quicker and cleaner — and they can't sew
up the wound. . . . But how about friends — you
must have had a friend or two at Oxford you valued
—loved."

Aye, indeed," answered Dayrell thoughtfully.

Well and isn't a true friend — one whom you love
and who is worthy of it — is he not worth all the
women that ever ensnared their slaves ? "

"My friend was one of the truest, noblest, that

ever But I can't have much of his company

now. He's got better friends than myself now —
somewhere."

VOL. I. 13

Gone to glory ? "

Dayrell nodded.

Poor devil," muttered Byron. " That's the way —
Matthews and Whitfield. Sorry for you, Dayrell — I
am, by Jove."

When they next met after this conversation Byron's
manner was even kinder and franker than previously,
and he was willing to talk on the subjects wherein
Charlie was most interested, even about Childee Harold
and the Doge of Venice among the rest, though he
evidently had a dislike to dwelling on Venetian
memories. Once they got on the subject of Greece
and then Byron showed extraordinary interest in the
hapless state of that noble country and its oppressed
race. " I would give all my fortune, and my life
too, to deliver those fellows from the infernal tyranny
of the Turks. Nobody who has not travelled there
can form any conception of what a brutal degrading
oppression the Greeks have been living under for
these last four hundred years. And they are such a
noble — aye, glorious race still, in spite of those
centuries of slavery."

"Can nothing be done to help their emancipation?"
asked Dayrell.

Don't know — there might," replied Byron
musing. "But my hands are full here at present.
We must first see what can be done to help
these unhappy devils of Italians, who are suffering
almost as much. There's an address," said
he, throwing a paper on the table, " which I've

just written to the Liberal Government which
they have set up in Naples, if you like to look
at it," the style whereof may be guessed from
a letter written by Lord Byron at the same time,
in which he said, among other things, " It is
no great matter, supposing that Italy could be
liberated, who or what is sacrificed. It is a grand
object — the very poetry of politics. Only think of a
free Italy ! " When he saw the sympathy his words
excited in Dayrell, he added vehemently, "Aye, aye
my boy, a man ought to do more for society than
write verses. I mean to throw myself, heart and.
soul, into this coming insurrection ? " And he did
Whatever I can do," he wrote, " by money, means,,
or person, I will venture freely for their freedoms*"
And this, let it be remembered, was not when he-was
in the depths of wretchedness, but happier,
more at peace, probably, than he had ever been
since the death of Thyrza.

When Byron saw the enthusiastic response Charlie
made to this kind of appeal, he told him all the
plans and hopes of the conspirators, and said how
much he should like to introduce him to Count
Grana, "a true patriot," and his sister, the Countess
Guiccioli.

When his young friend was retiring for the night,
Byron said in a shy, rather dreamy, sort of way,
Of course, I've heard of your father, but — excuse
me, is that admirable mother of yours living?"

Thank God, yes."

13—2

And thank Him beyond all conceivable and
imaginable bounds that He has given you such a
mother as Hobhouse told me, and you have shown
me, yours must be."

A day later Dayrell wrote in his journal the
following passage, which, like other portions of that
diary, seems to have been addressed to the Oriel
friend he had so recently lost, Archer Hepburn :
. . But to-day I have had another conversation
with him, which I thought at first would end very
painfully, and that I should have had to clear out
from here at once. . . He had been speaking of
these unhappy Italians, and the efforts they were
making to regain their long-lost liberties, but which
he feared would be fruitless, and then he went off
into one of the saddest wails of melancholy despair
about everybody and everything, himself especially,
I ever heard from human lips. I ventured to say,
•'•' But, my dear lord, is it not an infinite privilege
both for them, and still more for you, to have
this work of emancipation on your hands? Surely
it is not our success so much as om faithfulness
that is of importance ? " He took my hand with
such a look, actually of gratitude, and so touching
I can't describe it — it almost made me tremble.
But then T felt so very thankful I had been able to
know a little more of this marvellous being — perhaps
to give him a moment's comfort in the midst
of all his half-throttling troubles and toils. . . .
Soon after, when he had gone for his usual ride

(armed with pistols and a stiletto), and I was
wandering about through the pine-woods towards
the sea, whom should I meet but our old friend,
Carl Eosenheim, who was out on his summer vacation,
and had come to Eavenna with communications
for Lord Byron from the Secret Committee at
Naples. He also wanted to get a few notes about
Byron, his doings and * beings,' for an article he
told me he was writing on ' Italy, Byron, the Carbonates'.
&c., for *The Gentleman's Magazine.' When
he found where I was staying he wanted to know a
great deal more than of course I felt at liberty to
tell him ; but he told me, also, a great deal more
than I cared to hear or believe. Yet the evidence
was only too clear as to much of what he said,
knowing what I did previously, and having read
portions of his writings, which I confess had filled
me with contempt and disgust. And, oh, my dear old
friend, how can I tell you, you who are dwelling in
realms of purity and light, where * nothing that
defile ' ever comes, how very, very sad these facts
regarding Lord Byron's past life, which are continually
coming out, and now are almost public
property, seem to your idolatrous friend ! I scarcely
know which makes one most miserable, his — but no,
I need not, must not, write of such things to you.
I may, however, tell you, and it is a great relief to
tell you (for there is no other living soul whom I
could tell) what passed afterwards. After dinner he
reverted to the subject of Italian emancipation; told

me he had joined the Carbonari, supplied them with
arms, and promised any of them, who might be
hunted down, a refuge in his house, * which,' said
he, with great animation, and with a kind of grim
combative joy I had once or twice noticed before,
** I am prepared to turn into a fortress, if need be."
Then he asked if I were ready to shoulder a musket
and pike beside the Carbonari. I said, " Only too
gladly, as far as I alone was concerned — shouldn't I
like it ! Fancy fighting for Italian freedom ! " But
I could not help adding that I feared my father
and mother would be broken-hearted if I flung away
my life out here. And then I spoke of the longing
I had to emancipate my own countrymen from
what I knew was their miserable bondage, and that,
perhaps, English peasants, shorten, or clerks, had
a prior claim on me ; nevertheless, I should feel it
an infinite privilege to fight, and even die by
his side in the cause of Italian liberty.

Then that wonderful look of melancholy affection
came again on his face as he glanced at me, only
more sweet and touching than ever. . . . Well,
after that he drew me on to speak of my notions
about Bacchanalian freedom and joy, and got immensely
interested in the choruses of * The Bacchanals,'
spoke very highly of Milman's poetic powers,
and then, all of a sudden, he burst out into a
mocking laugh, and exclaimed, " Why, Dayrell, I
was acting Dionysus and his Meads to the very
life in Venice a year ago ! Ha, ha, ha ! " Then all

that Eosenheim had been telling me, all I had heard
elsewhere, came over me like a dark thunder-cloud.
I could not speak — I could only look at him. . . .
He read my thoughts in an instant . . . turned
away for a moment, swung himself round again
and said, half fiercely, half scornfully, " Dayrell,
you're a prude." . I answered back, " May be ;
but you have been false" (he started as if a serpent
had stung him, and glared at me as if going to
strike or shoot me. I wasn't much alarmed, and
went on) — " false to yom true self —false to all you
most honour and love, when you were doing and
writing what I needn't talk about — aye, and you are
false to yourself — forgive me — when you call me a
prude for hating it. Forgive me ; I didn't mean to
say all this, but "

As I spoke, the angry scowl died away from his
forehead, and all his usual melancholy came back ashe
said : " Forgive you ! Better forgive me. But
you've had a mother worthy of your love and
honour." Then he bounced up from his seat, and
walked up and down a minute, and said half to
himself — *' Yes, yes; now I understand all those
King-arthur's notions of yours, and where you got
them. Oh, my Grod, if I could only begin life over
again I "

Then I ventured to speak up again :

Lord Byron, you've done a grand work for Englishmen
and for millions beside, teaching them"
(and here I think / flamed up a bit too) " to love

the Beautiful in Nature and Art, to long for Freedom,
to believe in Love and Joy, as no other Englishman
has ever yet done. Some of us know this now ;
more will know it by-and-bye ; none but a very
noble nature could have done what you have done.
That's why one is so very, very sorry for . . ."

*' I know, I know," he said, kindly, seeing I was
in a tempest ; " but * false ' is an ugly word."

*did you not," I asked, "once destroy the whole
edition of your first-born because the Eev. John
Beecher told you one poem in it was licentious ? "
(He nodded.) "That was nobly done."

Aye, aye," he answered. " But it's too late now
to try and destroy all my naughty poems. It never
can now be said of me that ' he has writ no line
which —

'Dying he could wish to blot'"
Ah, well," I added, " you know as well as — infinitely
better than— I do, that you have gone into
all these ."

I paused again, and he broke out :

. These infernal devilries "

Against your will," I continued ; and he exclaimed
:

" D'ye think I need to be told that ! Not I. I

hate it all as damnably as you do ! Haven't I

loathed my very self for these things, and only not

• blown out my brains because I wanted to redeem

the past after each fresh fall! Why more than

once I've cut the whole beastly pack in Venice in

the very height of their spree, and been rowed
over the lagunes till morning, and the coast was
clear! And haven't I been all my life looking
and longing for one . . . Don't believe,
never believe, Dayrell, that I don't hiov: there's
something better and higher to live for than what
the world and its fools falsely swear is all I care
about ."

And then I think tears were in his eyes.

Dear Lord Byron," I said, and I suppose my
voice was a little shaky, " no one has helped us
more, in this age, to believe in some higher and
happier — yes and purer — life than yourself."

He looked at me, gratefully, I thought, for a
moment, and said :

•• Grod grant it. . . . But how the devil, I
want to know, is a fellow to go straight in such a
d d world as this ? "

Only by higher help and guidance," and then I
■ seemed to see those fountains of the great deep
in his religious native, in which I had always believed,
broken up, and I knew I had not been mistaken
in all I had said about him at Oriel.

But how," he exclaimed, " how, are we to get
that help ? Many, many a time I've cried out into
the dark void and groped, and prayed, but no
answer came. . . . "

Is not all that you have thought and written so
splendidly, inspired by One above ? Was not that
the answer ? "

Aye ; but what's the use," he exclaimed angrily,
'' of inspiration, or even of momentary help, or any
of your other sanctified nostrums, if the Grod deserts
you the next hour and leaves you to the beasts of
prey that rend and tear you ? "

How can He continue," I answered, " to dwell
with you when you let unclean beasts and foul
spirits dwell there too ? Must not our own will
be on His side — our own resolute ban be placed on
the entrance of what is vile before we can expect
Him to continue to abide in our soul ? Would one
you love and honour with all your heart remain beneath
your roof if you ever allowed her to be confronted
there with the base and miserable wretches
who make a trade of their infamy ? "

There was a dead silence for some minutes. I
could see he was desperately agitated, and I didn't
know what the next explosion might be. But when
he spoke, it was at first in that careless, cynical
way which he often puts on, and he merely answered


'' Oh, you are rather fond of public speaking, I'm
told, and of preaching, too."

Then he presently added, in a weary, hollow tone :

*but you are right, Dayrell, deadly right, I believe.
But what next ? We can't bring back the
past."

"The Future may be yours, my lord," I answered.
"I think the true way of getting out of our devils'
torments and chains is to throw ourselves into some

noble enterprise — as you are now doing for these
hag-ridden descendants of Brutus, Cato, and a few
other grand old fellows."

Then a gleam of enthusiasm lighted up his eyes,
and as he shook hands and rose to leave, I just said
(for my heart was all on fire with love and reverence
and 2^ity strangely combined) :

I hope I haven't offended you."

Not a bit — not a bit ! " he answered, with a
sort of half gay, half dismal and affected nonchalance.
" You know, as I said before, I like something
craggy to break upon, such as the Armenian
language, or like a jolly young Puritan parson
who delights in preaching purity, poetry, and Bacchanalian
revels all over the World. Lord bless you,
my boy, don't you know I hate your soft, mealy-mouthed
Christians who've no crags and no backbone,
and can't stand up for themselves and their
convictions ! But a fellow who believes with all his
heart in to kuXov and helps me to believe in it too,
well, 1 say, G-od bless him — I'll love him and honour
him, prickles and all, though he sting like a nettle."
Then he caught my hand, wrung it desperately,
poured out a huge glass of rum and water, and
tossed it off, exclaiming : " Here's a health to the
porcupine ! Give me your bristly, thorny chaps !
Bristles for ever ! " and bolted out of the room.

The next day I was to leave. He was kindness
itself, insisted on sending me as far as Essen
on one of his own horses with a groom, who was

to find out the chief of the Carbonari there, and ashe
rode off in another direction (he was then going
to Count Gamba's villa) he called out, " Come again,
Charlie Bacchanal ! Come again." And then
reining close up to my horse, he half whispered :
"Eemember I believe all you impudently affirm
about the sweet Arcadian innocence of the early
Bacchanalian revels — at least I believe you believe
it. So don't fear to come again," and he turned
away singing or shouting, " Come again ! Come
again ! My sturdy Bacchanal ! Evoe ! Eos i
Bacchanals for ever ! Hurrah ! " I don't know
when I have felt altogether so thoroughly upset as
at that parting and at what passed the day before ;
and I got no rest or peace till I could sit down in
my room at an inn and pour it all out, dear old
friend, to you. And yet what a strange mad
world of mystery it all is. Here is Byron living
with another man's wife, who ought long ago to
have been loosed from the bonds of her unholy
marriage to that wretched old Count Gruiccioli ;
while the attachment between her and Lord Byron,
apart from their previous history, I'm certain, is as
pure, devoted and beautiful, as full of blessings to
each, as ever the love of man for woman in this
mysterious world. Oh ! my brother, help me — God
help me — to understand rightly, as He does, all
this mystery ! Only of one thing I am sure, that
there is simply an infinite world of goodness in
that great man's soul! Enough, with God's help,

to overcome and utterly consume all the baseness
that has crept into and over his life. Some day
it will be known that he is an Archangel, fallen —
and restored.

** Noble, noble, Dayrell," was all that Lady Stella
seemed competent to say when the reader had
finished. The rest of the party, with the exception
of Mrs. Dayrell, uttered some incoherent expressions
of genuine interest in the narrative. That lady was
silent, evidently from some deep emotion. Presently
Lady Stella said to her softly, " You loved
and honoured Mr. Charles Dayrell, dear madam, I
know."

The only reply the elder lady made was a
murmured " Yes."

'would that I had known him," continued
Stella. " I should have been a better creature all
my life. But that portrait in your dining-room
gives one some slight notion of what he was — must
have been."

Ah, my dear," said Mrs. Dayrell, " it is good
for a portrait, but no picture could give . .

. He was one of those men whose image, if
a young girl had once known him intimately, even
in his later life, would haunt her for years, so that
all other men would seem poor and vapid, even mean."

But I hope, dear mamma," said Ellen Dayrell,
his perfections did not make you think so of papa."

Well, not exactly," replied her mother with

a sweet but rather sad smile. " But then you see
your father was a Dayrell, and the son of my idol."

By this time spring was giving way to early
summer, and the weather had become warm enough
to allow of drives in an open carriage, which the
invalid was permitted to take, with manifest benefit
to his health. One day it was arranged that with
his mother and sisters he should go to lunch at
Hurstleigh Manor, and on looking wistfully from
the couch they had laid for him there, in the
dining-room, at the beautiful grounds outside, Stella
said to him, after luncheon :

Would you not like to take a turn in the
garden ? I have got a garden chair made on purpose
for you. It is on the terrace, and you can
be wheeled out to it at once if you like."

Her visitor was grateful and very happy. The air
was delicious. His mother had thrown over him an
extra wrap, and after he had been drawn round the
grounds, which were lovely with flowers and foliage,
picturesque velvety lawns and groups of trees, with
broad winding walks between, the party halted on
the • smooth-shaven turf. Here beneath a splendid
beech tree there was a charming view of the park,
with a sheet of water glittering in the sun, where
a couple of swans could be seen to advantage.
Old Sir Michael Ronhead had given the visitors a
hearty welcome, and accompanied them round the
grounds, leaving them in due course for his afternoon
ride and a little magisterial business.

Before long the young ladies from the Priory
wanted to take a walk through the park to a
rising ground whence a beautiful distant view of
the sea could be obtained. Miss Frances could not
do less than accompany them when she saw no
signs of her cousin intending to do the same. But
she left Mrs. Dayrell, with Stella and her monkey,
in charge of the ' huntsman,' and thus satisfied her
conscience in abandoning the said cousin to what
might otherwise have been a tete-tete.

That good lady, however, was not Stella's mother,,
and was very much the mother of Wilfrid Dayrell.
She could not help seeing the decided benefit which
on the whole her unfortunate son was deriving from
the interesting conversations he had had with the
Lady Stella, as well as from her company generally ;
and naturally desired that benefit should be enjoyed
as much as possible. Perhaps more or less unconsciously
she could not help indulging in visions
of her son's ultimate restoration to health and
strength, and of his becoming the accepted lover
of the heiress of Hurstleigh Manor.

So it happened that after a time she proved
faithless to her charge, and retired to the house
on the plea that " forty winks had become almost
second nature " to her in the afternoon, which was
quite true, and had she remained in the garden
the two young people might probably have talked
for an hour without her hearing a word.

Before she left, Stella had been quietly and

almost cautiously (for her cousin had made her a
little nervous in conversing with young Mr. Dayrell
on any topic really interesting to her) working upto
a discussion on the topic that for some weeks
past had been deeply interesting to her.

Dayrell soon gave her an opening.

What a charming little beast," said he, " that
familiar spirit of yours is."

"Yes, so playful and good-tempered. A much
better character altogether than his mistress; aren't
you, Jacky r "

When I contemplate him and his many virtues,
graces in fact, I can't wonder, Lady Stella, you have
faith in Evolution. But really I don't see how that
grand theory interferes in the slightest degree
with belief in the doctrine, as I find it in the
Scriptures, of the purely spiritual origin of the
human soul."

dear Mr. Dayrell," replied Stella with vivacity,
Is not the afternoon too lovely for discussion on
the origin of man or monkey? There is another
topic very near my heart on which in this weather
I should so like you to discourse."

Name it, name it ! *' exclaimed Dayrell ardently.

Some other time," said his companion, " I should
very like to follow up that question of ' unde derivation
? ' — is that right ? — the Origin of man. But just
now I want to study that wonderfully developed ape,
Lord Byron. Perhaps we had better not revert, at
present, to the question of religion, whether that

held by Byron, your grandfather, great-grandfather,
or any of the patriarchs. Indeed your esteemed
mother" (looking at Mrs. Dayrell) "would at once
order me away if I approached the subject. But I
do very much want to hear what you think of the
views your gallant ancestor took, in that lecture
on Byron, of the poet's character in relation to
women, and — well, to love and that sort of thing.
It is such a new idea you and Professor Minto put
before us. Is it not, Mrs. Dayrell ? And so infinitely
satisfactory to any one who, like myself,
has profoundly loved and admired much of his
poetry."

Mrs. Dayrell cordially assented, but by this time
the desire for rest had become paramount in that
good lady's breast, and shortly after she took her
departure for a season. Hereupon Lady Stella remarked,
as she adjusted the little tent-like curtains
to keep the sun from her companion's face :

Your mother is a most kind-hearted lady, Mr.
Dayrell, and those two young ladies, your sisters,
possess superhuman excellencies. Still I'm glad
they've all gone, for a while. One can't talk so
nicely — can you? — about really interesting subjects,
before critical witnesses. Now I must confess I
have been greatly exercised about an important
question which the said lecture and the lecturer's
subsequent interviews with Byron raises. I don't
mean the religious enigma. We'll leave that, if
you please, till after the Deluge ; but about his
VOL. I. 14

true character, the spirit of his life, if you don't
mind a little palaver on that point."

I am so glad," replied Dayrell, '' you like to talk
about that man's real character. My mind has long
been fermenting on the subject. And indeed it does
me a lot of good to talk with you about it. You come
like the Goddess of the silver bow, the Health-bring."


"That is worth something," replied Stella gaily,
though perhaps not much. Yet I cannot tell you
how greatly that Oriel lecture of Mr. Dayrell's helped
to clear up a difficulty that had secretly oppressed
me since I first began to read Byron's poems. But
first tell me what you have to say to those
wretched morbid repining in Byron's poetry which
excite so powerfully Carlyle's hate and contempt
all the more, I suppose, because he was so great
a sinner in that way himself," and her musical
little laugh expressed some scorn for both the
philosopher and the poet.

I think," replied Dayrell, " that they were
wrung from him not so much by self-pity, as
Carlyle says, but rather by the mourning of an
exquisitely sensitive soul over the discords of
a Universe, which seemed to him intended
only for heavenly music and love. It was the
contrast between his wonderfully strong perception
of the one and of the other which caused the
moaning of the great sea of Byron's soul — ' the
sweet bells jangled and all out of tune,' which drove

him to his sad and passionate complaints — not
mere selfish, or self-centred sorrow over his own
disappointments and woes. He suffered in sympathy
with his fellow-creatures — with a restless and suffering
Universe.

I like that view," said Lady Stella. " Decidedly. . .
But next tell me what you think about the charge
of inordinate vanity constantly brought against
him. I can't bear to think he was the slave of
that miserable weakness."

Xor I," replied Dayrell. " I read the riddle
thus. There is a vanity which is base — contemptible
the slave of which is always thinking of himself,
persuading him or herself that he or she is very
clever or charming, handsome or eloquent, &c.,
&.C. And there's something that is not seldom
supposed to be vanity, but which in reality is a
great craving for sympathy and love — wherein a
person knowing that these are gained by the
possessor of admirable and lovable qualities, or by
doing noble, useful, clever, or beautiful things, is
constantly hungering and striving to be and to do
all this. I think I see, clear as stars on a frosty
night, that Byron was filled full of that hunger,
like every beautiful loving nature, not of the poor
egotism of genuine vanity. Does that also please
you, lady fair I "

Immensely. Thank you very much."
But what was your other, larger query ? "
This — I never would believe that a man who

14—2

could write as he constantly did about Love, and
Nature, about Liberty and Tyranny, who was filled
with such profound love for the Beautiful and such
noble sympathy with the oppressed, — and above all
who could give up an enchanting life in an Italian
villa with such a companion — sinful though I
suppose their relation was — as he had at last found,
to go and die for Greek bond-slaves — that such a
one could be the heartless, sensual profligate so
many believe him to have been."

Nor I. The facts quoted and referred to in that
Oxford lecture, I think, amply prove the contrary.
Did it not remind us that Conrad's love for Medora,
so touchingly described, is full of unselfishness, and
of the tenderest deepest affection. No mere vulgar
passion — capricious, sensual, selfish. So with the
Giaour,' * Lara,' ' Selim ' (in the ' Bride of
Abydos '), ' Alp,' ' Manfred,' they are all depicted
as deeply, devotedly, and exclusively attached to
one beloved object — never swerving from their
loyalty to her in the midst of temptation, and
whatever their faults or crimes. This is not the
writing of a profligate or debauchee. How different
from some recent popular poets of the swinish
breed ! True ! in some of his writings there is a
far lower tone but only as a momentary weakness,
or as the passing victory of the devil over an essentially
glorious but human soul. Therefore you see,
dear lady Star-bright, I go with you wholly. You
are not ^ making-believe ' there. But what then ?

What is the particular knot you would untie ? "
The lady hesitated a minute — then answered :
This — that if Byron's soul had in it so much of
the divine in relation to Love — as I devoutly rejoice
to find you too believe, — why does he white
so mournfully about it — why does he so constantly
asks or compel us to ask,

' Oh, Love, what is it in this world of ours
That makes it fatal to be loved I
Oh, why with cypress boughs hast wreathed thy bowers,
And made thy best interpreter a sigh ! ' "

Ah," replied Dayrell, " if I'm to give you any
answer to this question it must be a semi-philosophical
one. It is the only one I can offer you,
and one that has given me relief from thoughts
that torture. But won't philosophy bore you?"

Stella was leaning her head on her hand, ever
and anon gazing at him furtively, while he
was speaking. Her large straw hat had fallen
by her side, and some of her dark auburn
locks were falling round her face. She raised
herself quickly and answered earnestly, " Oh no, no.
Vorwdrts I "

"My answer is not exactly mine, but that of
a much wiser and better man, whose belief it was that
Love is gradually developed from the low animal
instinct into the tender and passionate affection which
longs for companionship with the beloved one, for
interchange of thought and feeling, and signs of
love — which seeks to show kindness and bring joy

to the object of affection. But in all that there is
often lurking intense selfishness which, if unchecked,
gains terrible power, and at length destroys all
genuine love. Above and beyond that stage of development
there is a singularly noble and beautiful
growth of love which asks for no reward, and no
return — but is content and blessed with only admiring,
loving, afar off, silent and alone. This is
what Goethe quotes Spinoza as describing, when
he says, ' If I love you what is that to you ? ' and
again when he says ' He that loves God truly must
love Him without expecting any return.' Thus also
I find another wise and noble German, Lavater,
saying ' He who silent loves to be with us, he who
loves us in our silence has touched one of the keys
that ravish hearts.' Now Byron depicts all these
stages of passion and affection ; but there is one
more stage of development, higher, more beautiful,
and blessed than any of those, and to
which Mr. Dayrell referred though very briefly,
as perhaps you may remember, in that lecture — the
state in which the lover longs above all else to do
and to be, to bear and to suffer whatever will most
contribute to the welfare, the joy, the blessedness
of the beloved — rejoices to make any sacrifice, to
toil, to suffer, to die for the object of his love
whether it be man or God — whether endowed with
beauty, goodness, full of answering love, or be
repulsive, sinful, ungrateful, or degraded. In the
earlier stages I have been taught, I think, to see

that the existence and growth of love depend
chiefly on the attractiveness or loveliness of the
object, far more than on the lover's capacity for
loving. But in the higher stages it is the reverse —
and I think the answer to that mournful 'most
musical, most melancholy ' question of the great poet
which you just now quoted is, that all selfishness,
aye even the want of self-sacrifice, makes our love
fatal to the beloved one, as well as to its own existence.
And thus,

' . . . vr'ith. cypress boughs it "wreaths its bowers,'

the harbingers, the angels of Death."

"But is it not very sad that such exquisite
descriptions of Love as Byron gives, should so
often be defiled by the relation of the lovers.
"Wien I first read that scene of the meeting for
instance, of Arising and her lover, in a selection
from his writings, all heaven seemed to be opening
before one. But when I came to read the whole
poem — Faugh I "

"I understand," replied Dayrell. 'rit was the
same with myself. But Lady Stella — are we not
told by some of the noblest of our race that our
highest happiness and true perfection are reached
in loving Grod with a depth of fervour that no
words, not even Byron's, can describe ? If this be
so I don't say it is, but if it be — and if Grod
yearns for our love, and has created us that we
may thus love Him, and may attain om' supreme
blessedness in that love, and in loving and being

beloved by our fellow creatures, is it not worth
much to be made, even by Byron, to feel and know
something of what love may be? But you say
Arising and Hugo's love was sinful. The circumstances
under which they loved were. Her marriage
to Hugo's father (like the Countess Guiccioli's) was
sinful. But she was the victim of cruelty and wrong
the destined bride of Hugo, snatched from him
by his father — and hence came all the after-stain.
And' are we to reject the gold in the ore because
it is embedded in dross ? All good, in this world,
has in some way to be extracted from evil.
Think," continued Dayrell, his voice trembling a
little, '^ of the many touching and wonderful ways
in which God, if there be a God, seems to be
trying to teach us how beautiful and blessed it is
.to love, teaching us by the mother with her child,
the husband and wife, the lover and his mistress
teaching us therefore, above all, to love Him,
the Fountain and Inspirer of Love. ."

The speaker paused — perhaps it was quite time*

And the lady at first did not seem to realize
that he had come to an end, till, finding the music
of his voice had ceased, she said :

'' Do go on. I can't tell you what all this is tome.
Pray go on. But perhaps you are tired."

Oh, no," said Dayrell, " I only feared you might
be. But I have said my say."

Tell me one thing more, and then, perhaps, I
must not keep you out here longer. People say

that all Byron's heroes, at least, his earlier ones,
are so uninteresting — so one-sided, limited."

That is densely foolish talk," exclaimed Dayrell,
firing up, and inspired by his sad and lonely
musings during the last few months. "It is only
because they themselves are so limited and worldly-minded.
Byron's Corsair, Giaour, Lara, &c., all his
romantic poems set forth, in imperishable forms,
the profoundly pathetic enigma of modern life.
Do wee not, when young, find ourselves in a
wonderful Universe, which offers us every sort of
attraction and joy — with sunny Hope continually
brightening all our other happiness ? Do we not
love, admire, passionately long for, freedom and
joy, beauty, love — the 'true Bacchanalian cult?'
Then come bitter disappointments, cruel wrongs.
We believed in Eden, and found ourselves in the
Halls of Eblis. At first our hearts seem crushed.
Then our love is turned to hate — those hearts are
filled with fierce resentment, morbid repining,
selfish misery. We turn hither and thither, in
vain, like a wild beast at bay, transfixed with torturing
darts. Despair follows for a season, temptation
to suicide, moral death. Is not this the
history of those Byronic heroes ? the meaning of
all those mournful, terrible failings, as of a lost
soul ? Are they not full of deepest interest ? Was
it not well that these awful spectres should be
fairly faced and dauntlessly described ? And then,
over all this wild waste of waters, this stormy and

most desolate wreck-strewn sea, rises the vision of
unselfish love — the living for others, self-sacrifice —
bringing to us the highest joy, abiding peace,
through heavenly eternal love, within and around.
This answer to his cry of despair, Byron clearly had
not found while uttering that cry — did find it partially,
preached it grandly, by the closing scenes of his
life — and, I trust, has long since learnt it fully, if
in no other way, where one very dear to me said
it alone could be fully learnt — at the foot of the
Cross. There and there alone, he maintained, was
the mystery of Love and of the Universe solved."

While the young man was pouring out what, informer
days, Stella would have called a rhetorical
rhapsody, but which was, in reality, the out-burst
of long-pent-up thoughts and emotions, the lady,
her eyes shaded by her hand, seemed unable to
take them off his face ; and when he ceased, she
was evidently " softly, silently drifting along. Into a
Dream-land far away," perhaps into a sunny ocean
of measureless love.

It may be that the young gentleman himself,
when at length he caught her gaze, if he read her
face aright, was awaking, as he finished, to the
deepest happiness he had ever tasted, and perhaps,
also, to the most harrowing remorse.

For now that consciousness, which he had once
before experienced, was again forcing itself upon
him of the possible selfishness of his own conduct,
of the father's probable wrath if he knew what was

going on, and the terrible thought rolled in upon
him that he might have been bringing lifelong
evil on the one being whom, of all others, he
would have shielded from every harm, on whom he
would have showered the greatest blessings. Never
before had he realized so vividly the lesson which
the clergyman, who wrote out his fellow-student's
lecture on Byron, desired to impress on him
when he spoke the words to which Wilfrid Dayrell
had just been referring concerning genuine unselfish
love. May it not have been very like rank hypocrisy
to be uttering such sentiments while directly outraging
them?

But it is probably a rather common experience
that we receive some great truth into our mind;
recognize, perhaps warmly welcome, it as truth ; wish,
in a sentimental way, that we could immediately
act upon it and live accordingly; then presently
find that we are acting clean contrary to it, and
years later discover that we are only just beginning,
and in a very feeble way, to make it our natural
rule of life. Yet if the good seed had not been
sown when it was, we should not be even then
beginning, years afterwards, to see a little corn in
the ear.

But this thought in DayrelFs mind, that he
might be selfishly trying to win Lady Stella's love
to her lasting injury, was quickly chased away by
a very different one. How could he suppose for an
instant — how could he be so incredibly conceited

as to imagine that this handsome and accomplished
heiress, who could have a dozen suitors at her feet
any moment, would be seriously affected, or have
her future prospects in the least marred, by Ms
devotion to her ? Whatever might have been his
chances before his accident, of course it was
supremely absurd to imagine he was bound
now to refrain from loving her, or to conceal his
regard for her, through fear of doing her the
slightest harm. It is difficult at any time for a
modest lover,

•■ Whose heart the holy forms
Of youn imagination have kept pure,"

to believe that the girl he secretly adores can
ever care for Divin. How much more, then, when
he lies a crippled and disfigured sufferer, thrown
aside from the stirring, glorious race of life.

But even supposing his first feeling of remorse
had any justification, it was a long way off, at that
time, from being " the full corn in the ear," or of
having any power to lift him up to noble self-sacrifice,
had it been required. Hence he went
drifting on just as before, immensely happy in the
present state of his relations with his " Star-Queen,"
in seeing his power over her, and her answering
growing interest in him — very happy, and not at all
anxious as to whether he might be nearing the
*' Rapids."

There was not much time, however, then for
further reverie or reflection, for the three young

ladies returned from their ramble, and in High
spirits, Dayi'eH's sisters vowing that the group
under the tent looked " deliciously picturesque ; "
while Frances, in a sarcastic tone, caught from her
cousin, exclaimed :

Oh, most romantic I But what, may we venture
to inquire, have you been sagely discussing all
this time, ye learned Thebes ? "

Evolution," answered Stella, which was true ina
spiritual sense. Then, while caressing her
monkey : " Look at this lovely little being. May
not his great (up to the ninth power) great grandson,
if only all the intervening descendants are duly
developed, become a Sir Philip Sidney ? "

Later in the day, when the whole party were
gathered in the drawing-room, prior to the departure
of the visitors, Dayrell was looking out on the
broad park glades from the bay window, where he
had been placed at his request. The sun was
setting in regal beauty, and his happiness was at
its summit, when he saw Sir Michael go to the
piano and talk to Miss Grey and Ellen Dayrell, who
had been engaged in playing a duet, for then he
beheld Lady Stella glide gently to his side.

I have been thinking much," she said, " of
what you were so sagely propounding in the garden,
and of those striking words of Spinoza's and
Lavater's. School friendships — how curious and romantic
they are ! I think they sometimes illustrate
and confirm all you said. I remember passionately

loving one of my school-fellows in that strange
way'

And I too," replied her companion, '' more than
once. At both the schools I went to I was truly
and deeply in love with a school-mate. In each
case the object of my adoration was unaware of it —
I loved them because they were so peaceful — restful —
neither of them was distinguished for brilliant
characteristics or special attractiveness of any kind —
one of them in fact, called ' Pudding-head,' was
indubitably stupid" — and the merry laugh which
broke both from the speaker and his listener, rather
scandalized one of the young ladies talking with
the old gentleman.

Yes," continued Darrell, in a more subdued
tone, *' it is certainly a very pure and disinterested
affection in such cases. Byron's love for his schoolfellow,
Lord Clare, was just an instance of it. The
second object of my absorbing idolatry, also, knew
no more of it than the first. I was nothing more,
I believe, to either of them than any other boy.
But each morning for weeks together, when I woke
my first thought was. Here's another day in which
to see him, speak to him, perhaps play in some
game with, or be of use to, him. But certainly I
asked no return. It was happiness enough to love
him. . . ."

Stella raised her great dark eyes for an instant
to the speaker's face with an indescribable look of
sympathy and wonder, but quickly dropped them

beneath this burning gaze. Each knew in their
secret soul his words described not only what both
had felt in days long ago, but what they thought
each might be feeling now. Then Dayrell continued
rapidly —

As for my first love, I remember how astonished
he was when leaving school (we were both about
twelve) at my hurriedly thrusting into his hand a,
to me, priceless little glass dog, the only article of
vertu and value I possessed, or at least that seemed
worthy of his acceptance I And when he recovered
from his astonishment, and in return fumbled in his
pockets, drew forth an old battered silver pencil-case
and gave it me with confused emotions of
gratitude, didn't I cherish it tenderly, and kiss it
in secret during the holidays next ensuing I Did
you ever tell your love ? "

Never. Nor ' let concealment prey upon my
damask cheek I ' But what became of your attachments
? Have you been fast friends ever
since ? "

,alas, no. I have never seen either of the beloved
since they and I left school. And what
is worse I fear I never took any pains to do
so."

Oh fie I ]wien are inconstant ever. But then
Pudding-head ' could scarcely have been attractive
in himself. It must have been your extraordinarily
sentimental and romantic disposition which invested
him with sweet imaginary charms, suggested by

his delicious name (hush!) — unless indeed at that
time you were even more stupid than himself and
worshipped him as a superior being — "

Then the laugh which had been with difficulty
repressed by both, burst forth so merrily that old
Sir Michael Godhead observed with cheery sympathy,
Ton my word, those young folks seem to have all
the fun to themselves to-night." Whereupon Lady
Stella continued in a stage whisper :

You know Carlyle says there never was so great
a fool but he found a greater to admire him. As
regards the evanescence of those school attachments,
however, I fear school-girls are just as inconstant as
the boys. That's the worst of those early romantic
loves, perhaps prefiguring our later delusions — they
are so evanescent." (A cold chill ran through Dayrell's
frame.) "But I suppose, after all, they do
prove the capacity of the human heart for that
divine and beautiful affection whereof your great
Germans speak. Experiences of this nature help one
to understand Lord Byron — and — "there the lady
stopped, and looked out at the sunset.

Her companion looked at ?ter, saying interrogatively,
as he leant forward :

And — ourselves ? "

Mrs. Dayrell's carriage was announced and that
delightful little visit came, as Stella remarked to
her cousin, "like a dying dolphin, or a model
Christian, to a most beautiful end."

OxE momiDg Dayrell's elder sister told him that
Lady Stella's aunt, Mrs. Grrej, had returned to
stay at the Manor House — that Mrs. Dayrell and
herself had been to call on the lady and that
the whole party from Hurstleigh were coming to
dine with them the next day. That memorable
event accordingly took place. It was the first time
Dayrell had seen his lady love in evening costume
since they had danced together one well-remembered
night at a time which seemed to him now to have
been before the Flood. She looked (to him at
least, and was no doubt) perfectly enchanting.
He could not go down with them to dinner, but
she had managed to put in his hand a lovely
moss rose before that entertainment was announced,
and to say softly, " Don't look so disconsolate. We
shan't sit long after dinner — and I have brought
some music." But she did not tell him why her
cousin had summoned her mother back, as a last
resource, to Hurstleigh Manor — did not tell him
that this kind-hearted and judicious aunt had been
having a long talk with her niece that morning on
a most delicate matter, viz., the state of her affections,
and had set forth, vainly as it seemed, but

VOL. I. 15

in the clearest manner possible, the undesirableness,
inexpediency, folly, and impropriety to say the
least, of engaging in a flirtation (which must inevitably
lead to mischief on one side or the
other) with wounded young men cut off by their
misfortune from all prospect of a happy termination
to such fascinating folly.

"When the ladies came up to the drawing-room
after dinner, Mrs. Grrey took care to occupy a seat
by young Dayrell's couch and to converse very
kindly and pleasantly about himself, his present
pursuits, hopes, and prospects. But when Stella
began to jjlay a beautiful " Them " by Mozart,
which she knew was one of his favourites, and
afterwards sang " Can I forget that night in June,"
it was evident there was no more talk to be got
out of him that night — at least by her, Mrs. G-rey.
It was a lovely night in June, however, at that
very time, and Mrs. Dayrell invited the whole party,
prior to the departure of her guests, into the garden
where she said a syllabub was prepared on the
lawn. Wilfrid Dayrell took leave of the company
as they left the drawing-room, on the plea of
necessity for early hours, and was then supposed to
retire to rest. Stella came up to his couch as the
rest quitted the room, and a few leave-taking words
were exchanged which none but themselves and the
angels heard. Had the angels, however, been capable
of envy, they might perhaps have felt it then.
The shadows of evening had fallen — the drawing-room

was almost dark, though the long sweet
twilight still glowed in the west. Dayrell could
not persuade himself or be induced by his attendant,
to leave the room. He lay behind the curtains of
the bay-window as if entranced, still gazing out
on the evening sky, with the words and tones of
the music and of the musician to which he had
been listening still lingering in his ear. Probably
at length he dozed.

The carriage came to the door. Lady Stella remembered
she had left her music in the drawing-room
— went to fetch it — and her aunt followed her.
The rest of the party remained seated on the lawn.
Dayrell was dreaming of Lady Stella and lier aunt
and thought they entered the room — thought he
heard the latter lady speaking to her niece in
earnest tones, and almost weeping. He dreamed, or
thought he dreamed, he heard her saying " Oh, my
de3.r niece, you do not know what you are bringing
on yourself and that unfortunate young man. This, I
can plainly see, is far more than the trifling flirtation
you have represented it to Frances. Why, have
you not quite lately refused an offer from young
Lord Iviendale ? No girl unless she were in love
with another suitor would have done such an insane
act as that." And in his dream Wilfrid Dayrell
seemed to catch the very tone of contemptuous
satisfaction with which Stella answered :

"My dear Aunt, if you value that young lord's
happiness in any, even infinitesimal, degree, write

15— li

at once, since you have heard of his fortunate
escape, and tell him when he next goes to chm^ch
to return thanks that I am not to be Lady Eden-dale."


Stella," replied her aunt very gravely, ** I fear
you are under an unhappy, a most unfortunate, hallucination
which prevents your seeing either your
own position or the estimable qualities of more than
one excellent young nobleman in their true light.
You are at present carried away both by your sympathies,
your pity, as well as your cultivated intellect.
I must speak plainly if for once, my dear child, you
will give your dear mother's sister a mother's
privilege."

Dayrell seemed now to see with that preternatural
insight given in dreams, that Stella was bowing her
head on her hands and listening with hushed respect.


"You have been drawn on by pity and common
literary pursuits to regard this young Mr. Dayrell
with an absorbing interest which no woman should
feel except in a brother, a father, a husband or an
accepted lover. Thinking it impossible there could
ever be wedded love between you and him, you
have kept no guarded watch over your affections, or
considered that you might be irrevocably losing
your heart to him and that you could never marry
anyone else while he lives — that you were in fact
flinging away the happiness of well-ordered married
life, and giving all your priceless woman's love to

one who, however full of noble thoughts and feelings,
and even of genius, can never be to you the companion
for life which a true woman looks for in one
to whom she gives her whole heart ' for richer for
poorer, for better for worse, in health and in sickness,
till death do you part.' "

(If Mrs. Grey had not been a dream-personage,
no doubt she would have been as much surprised asher
niece at the eloquence with which her natural
affection had thus inspired her. But love, even in
dreams, works wonders.)

Then he imagined that Stella lifted her head with
a proud sweet smile on her face, and answered
calmly, yet in a tone of deep feeling :

** Dear Aunt, I thank you and love you for all
your kind and motherly words and feelings. You
are right in thinking that of course I have not fora
moment supposed there could be the poor folly
called wedded life in store for that noble-hearted
glorious soul to whom you refer. You are right too in
thinking I have loved him with my whole heart,
and have given him not indeed the priceless treasure,
as you term it, of my woman's love, for it is
only too poor and unworthy of him, but . . such
as it is. . . Dear Aunt, you do not quite understand
me. Intellectual power to me is everything.
. I have known from childhood that if ever I
met a man who I felt was far above me in grasp of
thought, in lofty aspiration, in flashes of insight, in
poetic and creative power, felt that he towered above

and satisfied my intellect, and yet cared for my poor
thoughts, my love — then no matter what his bodily
condition, ugly, crippled, scarred, deformed, I should
be his captive. Oh, believe me, I could give myself
up to such a man, if he cared for me at all, to be
his loving, devoted friend, his servant, his slave,
for ever ! I could kneel beside him, read, sing to
him, fetch and carry for him, wait and watch for him,
bear with his humours, let my whole heart and soul
rest in communion with him lovingly, devotedly, for
Time and Eternity. . . I have found such a man
and he does love me . . . and I love him, forever."


Stella, Stella," her aunt seemed to exclaim intones
of the greatest distress, '* do you think there
are not such men to be met with in society full of
health and youth, worthy of you, longing to secure
your hand, with great careers before them ? "

*' Ah, there may be such, but not his peers — not
one I have ever met. And oh, dear Aunt, you have
known what it is to love. This man, struck down
in the midst of health and strength, yet full of
glorious thoughts and aspirations still, gifted as no
other I have ever known — he loved me before he
was smitten, loves me still. Shall I desert him now ?
And you, you would tempt me I "

And then Dayrell thought he heard her sobbing —
no other sound. Her aunt had left the room, and
he knew it was no dream.

"Stella," he murmured as well as his own emotions

allowed, " Stella — I have heard all. I thought
at first it was only a dream — I had been dreaming
of you — now I know it was a blessed reality."

He heard her dress rustling as if she were moving
towards him — the window-curtains parted.

Dearest," he whispered softly, " was I wrong in
hearing it ? I could not help it. Come to me."

No, no, not wrong," exclaimed Stella as she
threw herself on her knees beside him, " not wrong.
I could not have told you, but — I am — so very —
glad you now know all I have felt, without my telling
you."

He took her little hand and softly drew her down
towards him, put his arm round her and pressed a.
long kiss on her lips and then on her wet eyes ;
and there was never a word spoken, but each felt
that, come what come might, their hearts were
joined and that their life must be lived in each
other thenceforth — and for ever.

Then we are not parted, broken-hearted — in the
gloaming, after all ! " said Stella, wiping away her
tears, as she stooped to give him a farewell kiss.
Oh, what a pity ! "

-i .O^O«-j'

Of course a storm was gathering " after all " this, but it
did not burst at once. No one but the two young
lovers knew what passed that evening after Mrs. Grey
had left the drawing-room. She had again been hurriedly
summoned for a few days to her married daughter's
bedside. So for a little time events pursued their
previous course during those fair summer afternoons ;
and day after day for a brief period, these romantic
young folks as they met and talked and read together,
as the lady played and sang, and he listened silent and
entranced, their foolish hearts danced for joy. For
they looked together on fair flowers and trees, or up to
the blue sky and floating clouds in the warmth and
brightness of the still summer noon, or on lovely
sunsets in the long calm summer evenings, day after
day, '' making believe," when friends were near, that
they were not particularly interesting to each other.
When circumstances prevented their meeting, there
was the keen delight of knowing how they both longed
to meet again, and the happiness of just that one first
look into each other's eyes when they met, which they
would fain permit themselves, and then the silent
pressure of the hand — and then the long and interesting
talks that followed. Ah I folks a-weary of the

world, of themselves, " of wedded life, and jarring strife,
or vile and dull satiety," may smile or sneer at " sentiment
" in general and " Love's young dream " in
particular — but, except one other phase of Love, perhaps
it has more in it of the taste of heaven than aught
else on earth.

Dayrell was thinking something of this kind one
day, when he and Stella were alone, and then saying
it ; and when Stella asked him what was the one
exception, he answered dreamily :

Why, I was thinking of the scene which you and
my mother witnessed the other day, and of which she
told me when she returned — a Golden Wedding.
She described it so touchingly that the remembrance
thereof forced me, rather unwillingly, to make that
exception, just now. Only a true Golden Wedding,
where hearts as well as hands have been joined in
wedded love for half a century, can beat that dream."

Then he began writing something rapidly.

"What are you scrawling there?" asked Stella, at
length.

"Only some doggerel that came into my head,
just then."

Let me have a peep."

He handed her the paper, and she read aloud :

"THE GOLDEN Wedding-day."

When Youth and Love first met on Earth,
And in a golden ring were bound,
The Angels vowed a fairer scene

In heaven itself could scaree.be found.

But when Ly light of sunset glow,

The Angels saw Old Age and Love
Within their Golden Wedding shrine,

'Twas whispered in their bowers above

That Heaven itself were not complete

Till Love and Age were seated there ;
Else Earth would have a sight to show

With which that Heaven could not compare."

"That's a pretty little conceit," said Stella, as she
laid it down with a sigh.

'' Then why do you sigh, dearest ? "

*'I suppose I was thinking what a long time fifty
years was to wait for such a lovely apotheosis of
mutual affection — and of what a deal might happen
before we were sitting side by side, looking meek and
venerable, in heaven But never mind that.
I want to take this lucky chance of my aunt being
afar off, and of my cousin being obliged to go to the

dentist at T , and of your mother going to take

care of her. Even tooth-ache, you see, may sometimes
have a blessing in it. For I'm afraid my father is
going away to the sea-side for a few weeks — the
doctor recommends it — and I must go with him, and
we may not have another opportunity, and it makes
me a little unhappy — and "

Oh, Stella,— is it possible ! "

What, that I should have a father ? Yes, quite
possible, and on the whole I'm not sorry, Sir Knight.
Eather glad, strange as you may think it, that he
wants my con any, and that I can help make him
happy. But , • • • then, you know I shall soon

be back again, and I shall have such a deal to tell
you . . . But now, ' most potent, grave and
reverend Signor,' I want to talk to you about one
more work of Lord Byron's — perhaps the greatest of
all. You are not weary of him yet, are you ? *'

Never should be — especially if you talked about
him."

That's impressive. But you can't think how much
all you have said and read about him and his poems
has ministered to the wants of my doubting, hungering
little soul. Yet I am not content. Look at this
wonderful, exquisitely beautiful and most melancholy
poem " — and she held up before him, " Cain : a
Mystery."

** Oh, Wilfrid the wilful," she exclaimed, in an outburst
of sorrowful, despairing emotion, "how truly, oh
how terribly truly that Arch-fiend interprets all my
trouble, and — my — atheism — if my torturing ignorance
must have that name. Tell me, dearest ' guide,
philosopher, and friend,' and don't look so solemn, or
hate me for taking sides with Lucifer."

*' Hate you, Stella, for being sad and honest, — and
sincere ! May the Good, in whom I am sure I now
believe, help me, if ever so little, to make Him known
to you. It is just true souls like yours who deserve
and who find the Light. You must help rae to win
it . . But about this glorious poem, I have
thought and pondered over it for hours and days
together, many a time, yet it is only of late I see
light. And I have written my thoughts as you bade

me. What I find in it is a fierce protest against
the false and sinful views of God which were the only
ones that the poet had known — against miscalled
orthodoxy — against such views as embittered your
girlhood, Stella, and have made you hate the very
name of Christianity. But it is far more than that."

Then he drew a little roll of MS. from his desk,
and read :

*the drama of Cain seems to me the strangest
possible statement of the case, as it were, against the
Almighty for all the innumerable disorders, mistakes,
deceptions, delusions and wrongs under which the
world, the whole race of man, the animal creation,
and our own tortured or guilty souls, suffer so terribly.
You must remember Byron puts the worst of all those
charges against God not in the mouth of a man but
of a fiend. It is * Lucifer,' the fallen ' Star of the
Morning ' who presses on the unhappy child of Adam
all these fearful accusations against his Maker, draws
out, foments, whatever evil tendencies are already
germinating in the mind of Cain, but you must
also note that these charges are based far more on so-called
evangelical views of the meaning of Scripture
than on the facts of the Universe— that those views
have been deemed utterly erroneous by many of the
wisest and most learned interpreters of the Bible —
that they dishonour God, and contradict the deepest
convictions of the souls which the Evangelicals assert

are made in the image of their Maker

But my grandfather's words and thoughts have

driven me to the study of the Christian Gospels
and Epistles themselves. I have considered the
Archfiend's * Case ' by the light of their ' Case.'
And I tell you, my Star-crowned Queen, I think
that the charges, the indictment brought by Lucifer
and Cain, and all the host of accusers from their
day down to John Stuart Mill, Eenan, and Herbert
Spencer, against the Maker and Euler, if there be one,
of the Universe (remember that * Diabolic ' means
the ' SLANDERER ') are absolutely unanswerable if those
Xew Testament histories are not true. Only in that
sublime revelation of God in Christ reconciling the
world unto Himself, of His endowing Man with freewill,
and in His overcoming all the evil which that
free-will produces by love and self-sacrifice, only in
that grand revelation of the Son of God coming to
earth, living and dying to redeem us all from selfishness
and sensuality, to raise us out of our animal
condition and help us rise to a spiritual life of Love,
holiness, and joy, can we, as far as I see, understand
either God, or ourselves, or the Universe. The histories
may be false. There may be no such loving
All-father, and divine Son as they represent — or no
such revelation has been made, and the greater part
of the stories and epistles in the New Testament maybe
founded on delusion, or deceit. But if that be so
I have no answer to give either to Lucifer, or Cain, or
Mill. I freely acknowledge the sovereignty of the
devil over at least half the realm of Being, and hail
him as a co-equal Power with God."

Stella took the ardent enthusiast's hand as he
finished, and looked anxiously in his somewhat
troubled face, as if trying, but in vain, to mould
her thoughts in words.

Dearest," she said, " do not be unhappy about
this ' coil of thought.' Let us hope. Have you
written any more ? "

So presently he continued thus :

*' When we can believe that we really are children
of a Great, Wise, Grood and perfect Creator —
children, remember — therefore made in His image
and therefore endowed with free-will which He
respects so pathetically — when we see and realize
the glorious truth that only in unselfish, self-sacrificing
love can we find life and abiding joy,
purity and peace ; then, but never before, we read
the full and wholly sufficient answer to the complaints
of Cain and his * diabolic ' teacher ! then,
only, we find the clue to all the terrible mysteries
and even appalling contradictions, not merely in the
world around but in Byron's life and poetry, and in
our own souls. It is only in the gospels (especially
in St. John's), I begin to see a revelation of God as
Love, and of His Son as the primal ideal archetype
of man, as the fall revelation of God to ]Man. We
have that revelation, given alike at Bethlehem, in
Galilee, on Calvary, and on the Mount of Ascension,
in all the manifestations of what is called
the Kingdom of God during the Lord's ministry
in Palestine, especially in his victory over that

death of agony and shame as the complement
and explanation of all those other revelations
made to us by pestilence and famine, by the
hospital and the mad-house, by the rattlesnake
and the thunderbolt, by the relentless cruelty
of Nature, by all the devilish passions and all the
unutterable agonies of the human heart, and by the
last Destroyer, Death. Evil we can understand as
necessary for the growth of the noblest virtues, and
therefore of the highest happiness, as necessary for
heroism, fortitude, self-sacrifice. Error and Sin also
we can understand to be the inevitable consequence
and accompaniments of Free-will — if — " and the
young man raised his voice a little, speaking as if
he were engaged in mortal combat with some
unseen foe — ^'if Love be triumphant alike over Evil
and Sin, and over Death besides. Not otherwise."

When he leant back and put down his MS., Stella,
after a pause, said softly :

Wilfrid, you tell me you like me to keep on
playing, and I've told you more than once your
voice is like music. If you are not tired, please
go on."

I thank God I can give you any pleasure. But
is it only ' as one who can play skilfully on an instrument
? ' Will you not tell me if you can agree
with my thoughts ? "

Oh, my beloved, I think it is all very beautiful,"
replied Stella, "and I wish I could say it was all
quite true. But it may be ; and what you urge

about evil coming from our having free-will and
from the Creator respecting that free-will, is an
immense help to me. At all events what you
preach is very different from what I have been used
to hear. Only I cannot say, and mustn't pretend to
say, that at present I know enough of the New
Testament to tell whether you or the 
divines are nearest to what it teaches. And
I noticed, of course, that even you spoke as if you
were by no means sure that your vision was the
right one."

Yes, indeed — I am only a seeker. Here is a
little more that I see I have written — * The New
Testament may be a mere collection of dreams and
delusions; the work of impostors lying for the glory
of Grod, or self-deceived enthusiasts, venting the
heated imaginations, or magnifying the preposterous
traditions, of a superstitious and fanatical age, an
age gone mad in its beliefs and visions without
rhyme or reason, developing the noblest dreams of
humanity from the hard, selfish and narrow bigotry
of Judea. All I affirm is, that if this be so, if the
events there recorded of Christ's entry into the
world as the Son of Grod and the Son of Man, of
his mighty works and agonizing death, and glorious
victory over that agony and death, of his subsequent
triumphs when working through his apostles, are
not facts but ' inventions,' and that for eighteen centuries
the Christian church has lived and worked ina
faith that is folly and a belief that is a lie,

then I repeat, there is no answer to Lucifer, no
adequate explanation of the existence of pain or of
the mystery of Sin — of Life in Death or of Death
in Life.' "

"Nor, I suppose you would say," rejoined Stella,
of the existence of the Christian Church in the
time of the Eoman empire, when Christians went
to the flames or the lions, nor indeed any sufficient
explanation of the suffering of Christian Martyrs in
any age."

Just so. The Cross without the Resurrection,

like every other infernal deed done on our planet,

would have been simply an unintelligible, useless

horror, and all that grew out of it, as recorded by

Evangelists and Roman historians, a mere dance of

maniacs. The two combined give the solution of

the whole problem of evil, sin, and death. For on

the one hand we can understand — the history of

eighteen centuries sirius — how sin and evil can be

conquered by love, and by love only while man's

will remains free :

The many waves of Thought, the mighty tides,
The ground-swell that rolls up from other land;,
From far-off worlds, from dim Eternal shores,

Whose echo dashes on Life's "wave-worn strands —
This vague dark tumult of the inner sea
Grows calm, grows bright, risen Lord, in Thee."

Those are grand lines," said Stella. " Are they
your own ? "

I would they were. They are in a noble hymn
by Mrs. H. B. Stowe. But on the other hand," con-vol.
I. 16

tinned Dayrell, "if Sin, Evil, and Death conquered
on Calvary, then they are triumphant, and we must
bow down in worship before the devil. Cain was
the true worshipper, and Abel only a deluded rebel
or superstitious slave. I do not presume, of course, to
say that those who cannot agree to this view are senseless
dolts — but I am sure they are unscientific — as
fiilse to the great principles of Science, which they
profess to worship, as those philosophers who deny
the existence of a God."

False to scientific principles I "

'' Yes, for on what does all scientific truth and
progress depend ? Not on positive certainty, for in
an indisputable sense we are all Agnostics with
regard to the Universe. None of its facts and laws
are really and certainly knowable. AVe do and can
know nothing but what passes in our own minds.
The greatest scientific philosophers, discoverers —
Bacon, Newton, Laplace, Kepler, Faraday — can only
suggest what seems to them the best working
hypothesis, the most probable theory, to account for
the various phenomena. And they are accounted
unscientific, irrational, who reject the Law of Gravitation,
or the theory of Eclipses, because only those
theories best solve the various mysteries with which
they deal, and are but theories after all. By the
same argument I tell you. Lady Stella, these
Agnostics and opponents of Christianity must be
marked as false to scientific reasoning for rejecting
the only working hypothesis, the only theory, that

really meets the vast and wonderful phenomena
which we encounter in the Universe, and in the
history of the Christian Church."

But perhaps Messrs. Comte, Spencer, Huxley and
Co. may object that the Theistic and Christian theories
do not best solve the mysteries. . . ."

True — and some philosophers said the same of
Newton's theory of the fall of the apple, and even
that of the planetary spheres, the rotundity of the
earth, &c. But Newton and Galileo are now regarded
as more correct in their reasoning than their opponents.
Better theories and working hypotheses
regarding all supposed scientific truths than those
now held by scientific philosophers may some day be
propounded. Molecular action, protoplasm, and so
forth, may one day be discarded and ridiculed, like
the Ptolemaic system and phlogiston. Yet loyalty
to scientific principles requires us to accept those
hypotheses which for the time being seem best to
explain the various phenomena in question."

Then the whole of the bother turns on the amount
and weight of evidence."

Undoubtedly, and — mark this, and — on the impartiality
with which that evidence is examined and
received. Some devoted scientists may be biassed
against Theistic theories and Christianity, and deal
with the evidence not quite impartially. . . ."

Et vous ? "

'* Have certainly not been much biassed in favour
of either Theism or the Christian cult in recent

16—2

years. But, while lying on this couch, and looking
at all the phenomena of Life and the Universe and
the history of Christianity since Tacitus and Pliny first
noticed it, I can find no theory that meets all the
facts but one. Void toute''

Stella was sitting on a low stool beside Darrell's
couch, and had laid her head on the cushion beside
him during his last remarks. As he finished she
raised herself up and looked in his face with so
strange and sad a smile that he was as much puzzled
as pained, and clasped her hand in his. Presently
she said :

Then, dearly-beloved priest, according to Bp'on's
description of their respective characters, scepticism,
and faith, I am the sceptical, wicked Cain and you
are the believing, virtuous Abel. I hope I am not
to be your murderer."

If you are as unlike Cain as I am unlike that
primal virtuous shepherd, Abel, dearest, I can't be
in much danger. But I rather think you differ in a
slight degree from Cain. For remember that, so far,
you have given me life through love — not death. And
is it not deeply interesting and somewhat curious to see
how this great poet, more or less unconsciously, under
the influence, possibly, of a divine inspiration and guidance,
preaches the same grand doctrine in many other
poems which is taught even in ' Cain ' by that lovely
creature, ' Adam ' — viz., that Love is the great redeeming
power in the Universe ? And therefore it
is that the world has felt so deep an interest in

those poems. It would seem as if Baton continually
wanted, though, perhaps (as I've said before) half
unconsciously, to preach the sublime truth that pure
Love hallows, purifies, reconciles all things and all
beings. Hence he plunges his heroes into guilt —
and into terrible suffering as the consequence of guilt
and yet evokes our deepest pity for them, because

they love so intensely "

'rand thus," interjected Stella, "makes us feel
that they cannot be all evil, cannot in fact belong to
evil, or the Evil One."

Just so, and makes us also feel that assuredly
they must at length be redeemed from all evil and
sin — and suffering."

"Yes, yes," said Stella with hands clasped in a
kind of dreamy rapture. "I do like that, oh, so
much."

Could you not almost find it in your heart to
pray for them, Stella ? pray that they and all sinning,
suffering, loving hearts, may at length be purified,
redeemed, and unfolded in a higher, nobler, more
beautiful life for evermore?"

At least you and Byron give me another and a
very powerful reason for longing to find the Being
to whom I rtiay thus pray."

"And that seems to me," said Dayrell, "to have
been very much the attitude of Byron himself in
these matters — panting for the freedom that has no
bounds, for the love that knows no change, for the
life that has no end. Then when the inevitable disappointment

comes, and the reaction overwhelms the
unhappy aspirant,

' Half dust, half Deity — alike unfit to sink or soar,'
the reign of Satire and Sarcasm supervenes, the fashion
of making mock at all sentiment, all lofty or genuine
passion, the age of persiflage and indifference, of
parody and burlesque."

But, oh," pleaded Stella, for she feared her lover
was fashioning a cap to fit her own head, " is not that
also needed to expose and destroy the works of the
devil who lets loose the fiends of Cant, and Humbug,
Superstition and Hypocrisy upon a suffering race ? "

Aye, verily ! " exclaimed Dayrell. " Oh, what
a world of poisonous rot and rubbish needs to be
cleared away by those beneficent, albeit untimely
scavengers of civilized society ! But it was not in
their besoms or ash-pits that I meant Lord Byron
found his true and perennial refuge — though once
and again he stooped to them like a dove 'lien in
the pots' — nor that to which he leads his votaries,
or you know that I should hardly have said your
attitude of mind suggested a likeness to his. No,
Lady Silver-Star, it is because he is always seeking
a refuge from the baseness of men and from his own
lower nature, from the misery of disappointed hopes
and dreams, in the calm, sweet beauty of nature,
iu her grandeur and loveliness, or in the lofty
thoughts which the long roll of past ages breeds,
that 1 feel he, too, was seeking God, and, like you,
was longing, hoping, one day to rest in the Divine.

He had, indeed, no clear vision of the all-conquering,
only of the suffering, love ; and not even of the
sublime, unselfish, self-sacrificing nature of all truelove.
I do not claim for him (any more than for
myself) a real, practical knowledge of the meaning
either of the Cross or the Resurrection. I only say
he searched, longed, passionately prayed for it, even
as we do, Stella, though it may be we do not yet
know to whom to pray, and even though we expect
no answer. And therefore I feel sure that in that
other world behind the stars he has, ere now, found
the light and the love with which the Heavenly
Father, if we have one, must ever be longing to
fill His children's hearts. But there over the hill
I see the carriage coming back. They will soon be
here and you will leave me ''

As I have often done before," quoth Stella, rising
and taking his hand ; " and — come back to you again.
How could I live now without seeing, talking with
you ? You little know what you have been, are, tome,
Wilfrid Dayrell. Do you doubt my word — my
faith ? " said Stella, seeing the melancholy look
which gleamed through all the love with which he
was regarding her.

No, dearest, no," replied Dayrell, " not for one
single instant. But a strange presentiment comes
over me — I cannot explain it, nor get rid of it."

"Then, my beloved," said Stella, kneeling down
beside him and speaking in a low, earnest tone,
let me whisper these last words which are to be

with you till we meet again, and after that, for ever
and a day. Nothing in all the world around us, orin
my own life and soul, has given me so deep a
conviction and so strong an impulse in the direction
you desire as your love for me and mine for you. If
there be a Grod, and His name be what your Scriptures
tell you — Love — and if, as they also say. He
asks us to love Him, I think you must be right in
saying that He formed us thus to love one another—
not alone to make us blessed, but also in order that
we might understand something of His nature, of
His love for us. Oh, my beloved puritan-poet, if indeed
it be as you hope and pray, can we wonder
that these human hearts of ours should be able to
feel such passionate love, and reveal to us what it
means — what it can bestow ? Blessings be with you.
One last kiss — Good-night."

The carriage drove up to the door. Mrs. Dayrell
alighted, Stella joined her cousin, and she and Dayrell
thought they were parting only for a day or two
at the longest. It is curious what mistakes are
sometimes made on such occasions.

Dayrell lay awake half the night, sometimes lost
in an ecstasy of happiness — sometimes oppressed with
sadness for which he could scarcely account.

While they were together, remembering her
manner and conduct in former days, he had sometimes
feared that he might be irreparably alienating
or offending his Star-Queen by his decisive, almost
imperious, assertion of what he believed to be great

and important truths. Yet, then again, he could not
but remember that the more earnest and decided he
had been, the kinder, gentler and happier, of late, she
seemed to become. '* The former things had passed
away," he thought, and it was hardly through fear
of having offended Lady Stella that his spirits sank
in the hour of darkness, or that some coming evil
loomed gigantic through the gloom.

That night Stella, also, was keeping vigil, for she
was writing and thinking far into the early hours,
and her lover would have been confirmed in the impression
just mentioned, as he lay on his bed looking
up at the stars, could he have peeped over her
shoulder and read the first page she wrote.

Lady Stella to Wilfrid Dayrell, Esq.

I cannot sleep to-night, my own, without writing
to you my deepest thanks for all you have been
saying and reading to me — not this evening only.
I don't know how it is, but you seem to take all the
pride out of me when I listen to you. You make
me feel so humble, even ashamed of myself, and I
begin to see that this is good for me. But though
at first it was painful, now I rather like to be made
humble — at least by you. I don't think that anybody
else had better try — not at present. . . . But I
want to say one thing more before we meet again
in regard to what we were talking about. And as
my father has proposed a long ride tomorrow, and the

next day wants me to go with him into T , when

he takes the chair at Petty Sessions, I shall send
you a letter instead of coming myself for a day or

two. But I want to say this. Have you ever read
anything of Auguste Comte's philosophy? because I
have — a little. And his views, as far as I understand
them (although that, I grant, is not saying much),
seem to me rather fascinating. He recognizes the
great need for man of religion, of worship, yet feels
as I have done so painfully the difficulty, or rather
the impossibility, of discovering a personal God to
adore. Yet he does invite us to the worship of
Humanity, and, in a certain way, of Woman. He
would cultivate our faculty of adoration, not starve
or destroy it — else I should abhor him. Is there
not much to be said for his philosophy and religion ?
Now, dearest, I pray you do not urge me to say
more at present than this — that I cannot and will
not do otherwise than cultivate and cherish those
glorious faculties of our nature which lead us to
look upward in adoration and love — that I will keep
them bright and fresh with devout religious life
until I cease to love you or you care no more forme.
Only instead of the worship of woman — (none
of whom, nor the whole sex combined, I could deem
so much above myself as to warrant the humility
needed in religious worship) — I shall find sufficient
satisfaction for "tiny religious nature in the worship
of Man. . . . Now do not smile contemptuously.
Do not think, Wilfrid, I am trifling with a grand
and solemn subject. At present you are my life, my
love, my inspiration, refuge, guide. Looking up to
you, in your company alone, I feel humble, and in

earnest, and at peace. Oh, what more can I need ?
My whole mind and soul and being are yours, and
in you I find all I need. It is my happiness to
know your superiority, to feel and know that you
are greater, wiser, nobler than myself. In your life,
your love, I live and love for evermore. . . .

"And why should you or any one regard me as
erring and deceived in thinking, feeling thus ?
Least of all, why should they shudder at it and call
it blasphemy ? If Comte was held blameless, nay
has been honoured and followed by good and honourable
men, for proclaiming the worship of Humanity
or of woman — if his disciples are admitted into good
society, regarded as worthy, excellent people, not
shrieked at as Atheists or blasphemers — if leading
Scientists and philosophers who can neither believe
in nor discover a personal G-od, are honoured and
trusted everywhere — oh, how can it be wrong for me
when I have found one bit of Humanity who fulfils
my ideal of that which is noblest in intellect, in
inspiration, and in love, if I am satisfied to worship
him ? Is not that better than to be reaching vainly
forth into the Infinite for what I fear I never can
find or know or love as I know and love you ? You
are a real, living, loving being. All the dreams of
Greek, Jewish, Christian worshippers are but ' vain
imaginations ' at present it seems to me, shadowy
fancies, spectral illusions. But you — though you
haunt my dreams, are, thank God, a reality.

Look at most of the church-goers whom we have

known — most of the religious people of your acquaintance.
Are they not moved to their devotions far
more by fear than by love or worship ? — a desire to
propitiate some inexorable Judge or offended and
wrathful Ruler ? Is it not rather a superstitious
fear than a loving, filial reverence and adoring worship
for the great, the good, the beautiful, the true
a base craving to be protected from Grod, not to
come to Him — that fills your churches and conventicles
and bows the knee of innumerable multitudes
even in their solitary or family prayer ? But after
all, how are we to believe that this resentful, dangerous
Being whom the Christians call their God,
and whose wrath could be averted only by the sufferings
and death of His innocent son, is a bit more
real than Zeus or Osiris ? And when Byron or you
invite me to worship Nature in all her glorious
majesty and loveliness, I answer that my heart and
soul craves for a personal god or goddess, and that
if I could believe there were such a sweet and gracious
being now living on earth or in heaven as the
Catholic goddess, I would far sooner worship her and
bow down before Eafifaelle's Madonna, than the
Christian's Grod. I do but repeat your own words.

"But there is no such being. And therefore again,
I say, it is a person, a real, living, strong-willed, yet
large-hearted personal being, full of love and thought,
before whom alone I can bow. You may be so far
above me that you can see and adore One whom my
eye cannot reach. Earnestly I hope it is so, else

you would be without an object of worship, for I am
below you, and though there have been men whom
you could worthily worship, they are dead and gone
for ever. None such are living now, or if they live
I know nothing of them. Beloved, till I, * by searching
can find out Grod,' be thou to me instead of the
Unknown, the Unknowable God."

*****

Those who have never experienced the intoxication
of a first deep, passionate love, or who have
lived till they have forgotten what they once felt,
and those who have never known the longing, the
glorious impulse to adore, will treat that letter as
sheer madness. And perhaps it was. Yet a madness
that has been shared by millions since Adam
and Eve walked and worshipped and wooed in Eden.

But a brief madness ? "

Yes — for Amor, as well as Ira., ' brevis furor est.' "

When Dayrell first read this letter, there was a
strange commingling in his mind of intense delight
and pain, but the latter was predominant. The
oftener he read it (and for an hour he did scarcely
anything else) and the more he pondered over it,
the more unhappy he became. It seemed to him
simply terrible that this high-minded, large-souled
girl he loved so deeply, should be looking up to him
just as he was trying, beginning to look up to
some Being of perfect goodness, wisdom, power, and
love — the omnipotent Creator of the infinite starry

worlds and Euler of the Universe — a miserable
thought that she should have only him to meet the
longing of her noble spirit, her woman's heart —
only him for worship and help, for guidance, consolation
and rest.

How could I," he wrote that day in his journal,
full as I now begin to see myself of vile selfishness,
worthlessness, imperfection of every kind, burdened
with morbid miseries and weakness, bodily and
mental, seeking vehemently myself to find some
One on whom to rest, to whom I could look for
guidance, purification, forgiveness and peace — how
could I be to her what she so deeply needed, or ever
satisfy her glorious far-reaching aspirations ? And
what would be her misery when she awoke from this
delusion, and lived to see me as I really am, when
her idol is shattered in the dust and discovered to
be but of clay ? "

Well might Wilfrid Dayrell ask himself how could
he answer this letter — how could he meet the writer
what could he say when they met ?

But events were preparing while he was thus
agitated that would remove the venue of that trying
business into another court than that in which
Dayrell was expecting an issue.

As Stella had said in her letter, her father had
invited her to ride with him the day following her
last visit to Aldclyfife Priory, for he thought he
could probably best say his say to her on horseback,

and at all events if things became unpleasant,
a good canter or gallop would relieve the tension of
the hour. So in due course he opened fire — told
Stella that his sister, Mrs. Grrej, had written to tell
him that she had refused Lord Edendale, and had
intimated to him that a state of things had come
to pass between her and young Dayrell which filled
him with amazement and disgust. Had the young
man kept his health, and not been crippled for life,
of course there would have been no objection,
though she might have the pick of the county,
the peerage, or of the West-end for the matter of
that. But young Dayrell was of a good family, had
money, would have more, and he himself was not
the man to interfere with a girl's fancy where all
that was right. But since it had pleased God to
visit the poor fellow with such a misfortune, it was
alike impious, base and unmanly of him to try and
gain any girl's affections, most of all a girl who was
being courted by such men as young Edendale and
scores besides. .

Stella heard him with seeming patience and
respect (though her horse fidgeted a good deal)
until he stopped to take breath, and then merely
said : —

I am sorry to have displeased you, sir, but really
I think I am the best judge of my own conduct ina
matter of this description. I believe I am of
age?"

Whereupon the old gentleman naturally waxed

very wroth. Eather high words ensued. Both Sir
Michael and Lady Stella felt their speeches were
unbecoming, and for a short time they preserved a
gloomy silence. Then Sir Michael exploded with
mingled resentment and fierce indignation, hissed out
between his teeth, " I'd rather see you in your coffin,
madam, than married to a cripple like that," and
clapped spurs to his thorough-bred so vehemently that
a less-practised rider would have probably been flung
to the ground with the plunging which ensued.
Stella was for a moment a little alarmed. But it
all ended in what she at any time specially enjoyed,
and which was now a great relief, viz., a rattling
gallop. The grooms on coming to take the horses,
found to their surprise that their master and young
mistress had brought home their steeds, contrary to
all approved rules of good horsemanship, in what,
as they described it, would have been a " thundering
lather," but for the animals' fine " condition."

Dinner was passed in sullenness and gloom, and
except for the presence of poor Frances, would have
been insupportable. That young lady, when she
went up with her cousin to the drawing-room,
amiably tried to make peace, but soon found as
she expected that she was in sad disgrace herself.
Both retired early to rest. The rest was not for
long.

As the great turret clock sounded midnight, there
was a noise of hurried feet in the passages, and
slamming of doors. A groom was saddling a horse
VOL. L 17

in hot haste, and soon clattering down the park
drive, headlong in the dark, for the doctor.

Sir Michael Ronhead had been taken suddenly ill
in his room just before going to bed, which he had
been later than usual in doing, and the whole
household were roused from their first sleep inconsequence.


Lady Stella, pale, yet self-composed, was quickly
at her father's bedside, using fomentations, watching
his livid face, taking his cold hand, or trying to
whisper soothing words into his ear. But she had
no large store of these, nor did her cousin seem
much more competent, and both looked often and
anxiously at their watches, and listened for the
distant sound of carriage wheels. After a delay that
seemed interminable, the doctor came, pronounced
it a very grave case at Sir Michael's time of life,
and ordered prompt application of remedies. When
he left at early dawn, and met Lady Stella, who
was waiting for him in the hall, he was startled at
the change a few hours of watching and distress had
wrought in her countenance. In accordance with
her request, conveyed as a suggestion, he promised
to telegraph at once, not only to her aunt, but also

to Sir , one of the great London surgeons, and

admitted that this was a desirable step.

In the course of the morning she had to go into
the " Justice's Room," where, besides magisterial
papers and "Burn's Justice," her father kept all his
hunting and fishing tackle, gardening tools, &c.

The room looked desolate, but every object called
up a rush of memories of bygone days — of his
exceeding kindness and affection from the time
when she first came to the park with her mother,
as " a wee toddling thing " of three years old — the
remembrances of how he had always been bringing
her presents, from the delightful rocking-horse of
the nursery to the beautiful creature she was riding
only yesterday — how he had provided her with
masters and governesses, and arranged parties, big
and little, for her, at home and in London — thoughts
of how he had indulged and petted her, comforted
her in some of her childish troubles, and, with her,
sobbed at her mother's grave. More wretched than
ever but once in her life before, she sank into a
chair, gazing with dim eyes at the objects around
her. On the table lay his riding whip and gloves,
a dog-whistle, a brace of " couples " for hounds,
his large pruning-knife. As she looked at them,
and felt the aching j^ain at her heart, which most
people know too well, what would she not have
given then to hear that which had sometimes caused
her much pain, his hearty cheery voice laughing at
her, scolding her — or even as she had heard it the
day before in that sad ride. Could she but see him
now on his favourite nag, giving a lusty *' view-halloo
" as " in the olden time." . . . And there
was his cricket bat in the corner, which in spite of
his years he had been using vigorously in the park
only a few days before, to amuse a party of

17—2

youngsters. . . . What mattered his transient
scolding and caprices now !

But his anger against her for resisting his appeal
in regard to Wilfrid Dayrell, and which had in all
probability caused his sudden illness, mattered a
great deal. Her aunt arrived in the course of the
day, by the same train that brought the London
surgeon, and as they came to the Manor House in
the carriage sent to meet them, that good lady,
being questioned by the great man, hinted at the
distress which the sufferer had felt when she spoke
to him about his daughter's attachment to young
Dayrell, and which she feared might be the cause
of the present attack. The result of a careful
examination confirmed this view of the case. The
great man remained all night ; and as her father the
next day had sufficiently recovered consciousness,
and could utter a few words, Stella was told that if
she could yield in any way to his wishes, and comply
with the demands he had made upon her, it
might be the means of saving bis life.

It was a terrible moment for the poor motherless
girl. Her aunt, her cousin, the medical men all
looking to her to speak a word which she felt
might be no less fatal to one whom she loved as
she had never loved before, as she never dreamed it
would be possible to love, than silence might and
probably would be to her father.

She had come into his room, and was standing
by his bedside looking at him with deep sorrow

and pity, when he turned and looked at her. His
hand lay on the coverlet, and she took it up
tenderly in her own. But he drew it feebly yet
impatiently away, casting a look at her so full of
reproach and yet of tenderness that it gave her a
keen throb of exquisite pain.

^^^lat next happened will be best learned from
passages in the following letter :

Lady Stella to Wilfrid Day veil, Esq"

[The first portion described the events recorded
above, and a conversation which she had just had
with her aunt. Then she continued thus :]

"Would that I might just come and kneel beside
your couch, dearest, for a few minutes, and tell you
all my trouble, and hear your loving words of comfort
and wisdom I . I have no one to go to
for comfort or guidance, to tell me what I ought todo
— what is right . . . Oh, Wilfrid, I am so utterly
alone — alone. But I could not come even to you
for your advice, for I know you would wholly sacrifice
yourself — and — me — to what you would say was
my duty to my poor father. And so I could not
trust you . . . Have I not a duty to you as well as
to him ? Yet he may be dying, and his only hope
of life may be my consenting to do what you once
told me would be your death-warrant — and then I
SHOULD be Cain, — your murderer. Oh, what shall
I — what ought I — to do ? Is there no one in all
this wide world, this Universe, that will take pity

on me and tell me? . I cannot sleep, and
it gives me a little peace to be writing to you, my
own. . Do you remember all you said to me the
last time we met, in that sweet twilight (ah, it
seems now so long ago, and I can hardly believe I
was once so happy) — what you said to me about
love hallowing all human actions and events ? I see
in so many things now how true that is. It alone
can sanctify the relation of the sexes, and the daily
intercourse of family life. The family meals, the
mere act of eating and drinking, I have heard you
say, may be hallowed, be made sacramental (a
strange thought to me), if those meals are prepared
with affection, and partaken of in love. I think,
too, I have heard you say that while to endure insults
and wrongs quietly through fear is base, yet
to suffer them in love is beautiful and blessed. So
again, to endure sorrow and suffering calmly (and
with what divines call resignation), from mere stoical
apathy or stolid indifference, is the sign of a mean
and somewhat degraded character ; while to suffer
in serene peace through a spirit of devoted trust
and love towards Him whom you call your Grod,
would be triumphant, noble, nay, sublime. Yes, I
can see all this now as I never used to understand
it, that Love refines, elevates, raises us above mere
animalism — that it is the mightiest agent in that
evolution of the soul from matter and dust, which
is the crown and fulfilment of our heart's deepest
longing and most passionate desires. . . .

"But, Wilfrid, see now the terrible riddles of this
torturing rapture, this tragi-comedy, called life. Is
it not the deepest, tenderest love of which my
foolish woman's heart is capable, that now is rending
my very life, soul and body asunder ? Love
for you — love for him who has been to me the
kindest father Forgive these tears, beloved
I did not mean they should blot the page — but I

am alone, and desolate. . . .

» » ♦ * ♦

"I could write no more last night, but a little
crying, dearest, did me good, and I went to sleep,
and dreamt that my mother, robed in heavenly white,
came from among the stars, and gave me such a
loving kiss, and it breathed peace into my heart.
Should not Grod have done this, if there be a Grod ?
Perhaps He did. Then I awoke refreshed — but, alas !
no clearer vision of duty had come to me from that
vision, nor from the stars. . . . Then some time in
the forenoon my aunt came and said my father would
be able to see me if I went to him. He could not
speak to me at first, but he took my hand and looked
at me with something of the old tender kindness of
the days when I was a child. And I knew and felt
in my inmost soul that all he was thinking and had
said in this sad business was the outcome of his true
affection for me. At last he said in a feeble, hesitating
voice : ' Stella, dear, promise me you will
give up visiting that young man.' Had he said
no more, I could have promised him, for that would

not have put an end to all intercourse between us.
But before I could reply he added : ' Promise me you
will give up seeing him.' His poor hand clasping
mine, trembled so sadly, and his white lips quivered,
and the dear voice that used to be so cheery, came
out feebly, tremulously. . I stood looking at
him for two or three moments, and then I said : * I
promise you, father, I will not see him for twelvemonths.'
And he pressed my hand and looked at
me kindly, and turned away saying, * Thank Grod '
. . but for the moment my heart seemed
broken.

On leaving him I went for a long, long walk,
and when I came back and was alone in my room,
I thought, dearest, how soon a year will pass away,
and how much there is you may do in that time,
and that perhaps at the end of it my father may
see matters in a very different light. If in the
comes of that time you should recover health and
strength, either he would not oppose our union, or
I should feel he was doing wrong, and I should have
power to resist what I knew was evil. If you still
remained my wounded, suffering knight, he could
not then righteously condemn me if I chose to be
your nurse as long as you liked to keep me in that
situation. . . . Ah, I should be so happy in it, and
want no other joy except that of varying my attendance
on you by comforting and nursing the old
women in our village, and * setting on ' the young
women in the right way they should go. How many

a Sister of Mercy has gone through life rejoicing in
her loveless and monotonous lot !

And then, dearest, you know you will have
time during this twelvemonth quarantine to write
a wonderful novel, or that fascinating dramatic
poem, the mere sketch of which, when you described
it to me years ago, thrilled me through and through
in a way I did not like at the time to confess ( I
used to be such a proud little minx, you know). Oh,
you must do something to show the world that you
really are the extraordinary genius and shining
light which I, poor silly maiden, have been wheedled
into imagining you. If you don't, who knows but
I may meet, in my restless roaming, with some abler
wit, some brighter brother-constellation even than
you, and straightway forfeit my allegiance to the
dear liege lord of my heart and soul ! Oh, dear
master, forgive the folly of your poor Sister of
Mercy, and think of it as a small relief to my sorrowing
spirit. For in truth I do need some balm
for my hurt mind. . . . "

And there the poor girl paused, for she felt she
ought to be giving him comfort, not asking sympathy
for her heart-ache from him. So she added
all the cheering, hopeful thoughts she could muster,
and among other things said :

But you know we can still write to one another
sometimes. And could you not paint another beautiful
picture which would take the sight-seeing world
again by storm ? I saw you had been having your

paint pots and brushes about you the other day.
Oh, do try if you cannot sit up to an easel. Paint
a companion picture to the last. Let it be another
*In the gloaming,' showing how in the soft blessed
twilight this time, they were not * parted ' but behind
the bay window curtains, came together, and were one
in deep true love for evermore. . . . For I am
thine own — beloved, in weal or woe — weak and worthless
as the property be. Fare thee well. My father has
just been ordered to leave home and go to the south
coast for a few months, which will perhaps make it
less painful for both of us, than if we remained so
near and yet could never meet. I will send you my
address. Do not write to me till I write you again,
and then, in Mrs. Hemans' nursery rhyme —

'• * Oh, say that you love me still.

Stella."

When Dayrell read this letter he felt utterly
prostrated. With his usual tendency to take gloomy
views of things in general and immensely exaggerate
the importance of everything in particular, the sentence
of separation for twelve months now passed on
him, seemed, in his enfeebled condition, equivalent
to an order for the " Happy Despatch." His mother
became seriously alarmed at his condition and sent
for the doctor. At length her son remembered and
realized the fact that he was not forbidden to
write to her, nor she to him, though perhaps the
correspondence should be carried on only at rather

long intervals. And when tie did write, he had
grace to feel, as his lady-love had done on her part
when writing to him, that he must take a cheerful,
hopeful tone, and must bear in mind that she needed
all the comfort he could give her under the far
greater trouble she was in, from her father's critical
condition, as well as from her enforced separation
from himself. Whether he could overcome the
habits of years, for this purpose, by an effort of will
was another question.

END OF VOL. I.

PRINTED BT
KELLY AND CO., GATE Street, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, Wen.
AND MIDDLE MILL, KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.

m^m^

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/ladystellaherlov02soll

CHARLES Darrell ; or, the Worship of Joy.

Crown 8vo. Price 3s.

The state of Oriel at the time, the insistence which surrounded alike
the undergraduates and the Fellows, the new leaven working in the old
forms, the aspirations for freedom, purity, true beauty, and self-sacrifice
for the sake of others, the high ideal of a manly, noble life . . . are
exceedingly truthfully and vigorously portrayed." — The Guardian.

Oxford life set before us in a very lifelike way. . . . The scene
of this representation— 'The Bacchanals' — is described with much
graphic force." — Spectator.

This volume, though in the form of a fiction, embodies a vast deal of
experience and thought." — British Quarterly Review.

This, to us, deeply interesting and suggestive volume Its

teachings are pure and beautiful." — Christian World.

This is a good story , . full of thought and experience.
Mr. Solly skilfully keeps up the interest. . Its lofty aim is never
forgotten." — Nonconformist.

An eloquent exposition of what the author conceives to be the true
spirit of Bacchus. . . . As a picture, too, of Oxford life some sixty
years ago, it is well worth reading." — Pall Mall Gazette.

The conception is good. . . . The ideas of unbounded energy and
spontaneous joy in living." — Oxford Magazine.

In many respects Mr. Solly's hero is a fine character, quite uneducated,
but he sometimes does strange things.'''' —Cambridge Review.

The novelty and boldness of his main idea in this remarkable tale
cannot fail to command attention'' — Illustrated London IVeios.

For his spirit of generous sympathy with all forms of faith which regard
active benevolence as a cardinal virtue, no encomium could be too
large." — The Graphic.

THE SHEPHERD'S DREAM. Price ss.

The poetical spirit and dramatic vigour of the Rev. Henry Solly's
Gonzaga,' published some time since, are more than equalled in his new
dramatic romance, to which he has given the title of ' The Shepherd's
Dream.' The scene of the play is laid in Suffolk and in London, in the
reigns of Edward YI. and Queen Mary, and the tender, fanciful love-story
which furnishes the element of romantic interest is skilfully interwoven
with tokens of the spirit of those troublous times. . . . The
character of the heroine. Lady Adela, whose natural playfulness of disposition
is allied with a strong will and deep earnestness, only requiring
meet occasion for their exercise, is sketched with remarkable subtlety in
Mr. Solly's beautiful semi-pastoral drama." — Daily News.

JAMES WOODFORD : CARPENTER & CHARTIST.

Two vols. Demy 8vo. Price 5s.

"This work is calculated to have a vast influence for good among
working men." — Illustrated Carpenter and Builder.

AND HER LOVER.

Tenet SOLLY,

Arthur OF "CHARLES Darrell," &C.

. . , . Ah, for some retreat
Deep in yonder shining Orient, where my life began to beat.

» * » « « *

Or to burst all links of habit — there to wander far away,
On from island unto island, at the gateways of the day.
Larger constellations burning, mellow moons, and happy skies,
Breadths of tropic shade and palms in cluster, knots of Paradise.
Never comes the trader, never floats a European flag,
Slides the bird o'er lustrous woodland, swings the trailer from the crag ;
Droops the heavy-blossomed bower, hangs the heavy-fruited tree-summer
isles of Eden lying in dark-purple spheres of sea."

Tennyson. Locksley Hall.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

cfon5on:

WARD & DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN

1888.
fall Eights Received.]

KELLY AND CO., GATE Street, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, W.C. ;

AND MIDDLE MILL, KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.

^.2

LADY STELLA AND HEE LOVER.

CHAPTER I.

Dayrell, however, did make the required effort —
wrote as cheerfully as flesh and blood could permit
under the circumstances, told his goddess he felt
stronger, now, day by day (which was true), for that
she had given him new life and strength (also true),
and that he was at peace (not true. The wish was
but father to the thought). And therefore, he said,
he would at once begin the literary work she indicated,
and " who knows," he added, " but I may also
attempt a little oil-painting, both because you ask
it, and because I know by experience what a help
to composition is a variety of occupation." He
ended by saying, " I must not, however, conclude
without this one word. My beloved — while I admire
and love you more than I can tell, for that generous,
self-sacrificing ' Sister of Mercy ' thought of yours,
you must believe and know that for no earthly consideration
would I let you live such a life for my sake.
. . I do think, hope, and pray I may recover
VOL. II. 18

health and strength, and then if you remain in the

same mind, why — then . But if not, dearest,

and if one worthy of your glorious love should come
and ask you to accept his love, you must and shall
accept it — stipulating only for leave to pay me a
little visit once a year. This 1 say — and by all
that's sacred in heaven or on earth, I mean it. . .
Dear, dear Stella, farewell.

W. D."

This last page of Dayrell's letter brought the hot
tears to poor Stella eyes, but all the rest of the
letter was an immense comfort to her. Xo doubt it
was blurred once and again by tears that would
come while she read it, but it was laid under her
pillow at night and brought her peaceful dreams.
She had one great advantage over her lover in their
trouble. She could take daily rides on her beautiful
chestnut mare, which she thought she could never
have ridden again, had he who gave it to her died of
her contumacy — and she could go with her aunt and
cousin a little into society once more, as her father
slowly but steadily recovered some amount of health
and strength.

Hence, though there were for a time many hours
when her heart ached, sometimes with an almost intolerable
pain, especially in the evening twilight, and
wakeful seasons when she could not rest, but only
rise from her bed and sit watching the slow-wheeling
stars, yet by degrees she naturally suffered less
from the cessation of their intercourse than did the

eccentric and impassioned genius on this weary couch
at the Priory. For to Wilfrid Dayrell that cessation
meant more than simply the loss of so much happiness.
It was the deprivation of a morally healing
influence. Left to himself the old morbid tendencies,
which from childhood had too often asserted
dominion over him, regained much of their power;
for of course his inability to take active exercise, or
engage in any of the ordinary occupations of life,
made it more difficult than ever to throw off their
baleful pressure. Even in Lady Stella's touching-letter
quoted above he found matter for self-torture ;.
and taking too seriously her playful reference to the
possibility of her meeting and admiring a greater
genius than himself if he didn't speedily win some
grand literary triumphs, he soon raised a host of
dismal spectres to haunt his solitary hours. Such
insane fancies naturally tend to bring about their
own accomplishment. And yet there may have
been some dark shadow of real coming evil thrown
on his mind, which awakened or fostered these morbid
visions of future woe.

Of one thing, however, he felt thoroughly convinced
— that Stella was right in stimulating him to
exert his powers, whatever they might be, to the
utmost, and to show the world what force lay in
him. He felt with oppressive conviction that everything
now depended on his being able to keep the
promise of his University, and subsequent early
literary, career, to impress Sir Michael Godhead with

18—2

a sense of his growing sanae, and to sustain in the
Lady Stella's mind a conviction that the intellectual
power she worshipped could command the world's
homage as well as her own.

But what way was open for him to do all this ?
Sometimes indeed he was in no doubt either as to
what he could and should do, or as to what would bethe
result. His soul in such seasons was all aflame with
the burning thoughts and splendid visions which his
restless imagination was constantly bringing before
him. Characters, incidents, plots of all sorts and
every description from the shadowy realms of primitive
legend or the vivid passionate life of the Middle
Ages, to the latest thrilling tragi-comedy of Modern
life, held him spell-bound by the hour together, and
filled him with transports of happiness, alike at the
beauty or the terror of his own creations — yet more
at the thought of all the admiration and love which
through them he might secure.

But then the glory of creative power departed
from his soul, leaving him weak and miserable,
with only " the ashes of extinct volcanic fires "
within and around to remind him that he had ever
dared to dream of making the world "stand still
to listen to his themes." Such seasons of reaction
and depression had often come to him in earlier
days, alternating with the inward joy of conscious
power, or of unmistakable outward success. Butin
those days he was able to throw off the incubus
of mental depression by bodily activity, change of

scene, and the society of young and buoyant spirits.
Xow — he was in prison.

One result of this weary and often solitary confinement
was that he found it impossible to use his
brush with any satisfaction or success. When Lady
Stella was frequently coming to talk to him and
cheer him up, and he could look forward to her
visits, it was different. Xow he had lost apparently
the elasticity and spring of existence. His mother
and sisters were very kind, but did not much
enliven him. Fred Ellerslie after a short and very
happy visit had gone to the continent for an Alpine
tour during the legal "Long," and our poor
wounded knight altogether felt more wounded in
soul than even in body.

But one bright morning when the fleecy clouds
were sailing joyously across the blue, and the sunshine
came and lay lovingly on the flowers outside his
large sitting-room window and on the carpet and sofa
within, Dayrell gathered up in his mind the notes
he had been making at intervals in moments of
insight for months past, and, on the flood tide of
inspiration, set his sails to the breeze. Scarcely
more fitted by power and genius, apparently, in
the eyes at least of candid literary friends, to vie
with the great Leviathans of literature in past ages
or at the present day, than the little nautilus with
a man-of-war, Wilfrid Dayrell yet was gifted with
an originality and wild passionate fire of thought
and emotion which with adequate culture and

experience of life, might win him enduring fame.
So he bent to his work, day by day, often full of
radiant hope, sometimes of all men •" most deject
and wretched," yet never bating strenuous effort.
Like the nautilus, he knew there were yawning
depths beneath him, but also like that pearly little
fisherman he did not greatly dread the stormy
waves or the depths below — the surges of adverse
criticism, of unsympathizing indifference, even of
malignant hostility which he knew had blighted
the career of other and more gifted youthful aspirants
for literary success, and might plunge him
also down into suffocating darkness and life-long
sorrow. Though he was too well aware there had
been some such melancholy shipwrecks of real
genius, glorious hopes, and yearning desires for
the love and admiration of sympathetic crowds,
chiefly, perhaps, caused by unjust and malignant
reviews, Dayrell scarcely ever realized the possibility
that such might be his own fate. He owed
no grudge, felt no malice, towards reviewers — felt
nothing but goodwill towards them and all the
world, at least when he was flushed with hope and
inspiration — was conscious on the contrary of only
noble aims and endeavours. Why should he anticipate
cruel neglect, stupid misapprehension, bitter
ruthless animosity, or impartial and annihilating
but well-merited execution ?

Alas, he little knew the evil effects of irresponsible
power seated in the reviewer's chair — nor the extent

to wliicTi " reviewers consist of people who have
failed as authors " — nor the hardening influence of
incessant critical occupation — nor the stupefying,
deadening, almost paralyzing, influence of being set
in the midst of a sea of books, surging up and
around the hapless critic, pouring in by hundreds
from all the publishers in London, and from every
English-speaking land.

Perhaps he was equally unconscious of his own
manifold defects and inexperience in the art of
fictitious composition. For older and wiser men
than he have, times without number, fancied that
nothing was wanting for success but a vivid realization
of character and incident, a good plot, and
sensational effects. Yet technical education is required
for novel writing and dramatic composition
as truly as for carpentry and joinery. Innumerable
bitter disappointments would have been saved, and
great gain to the reading public have been secured,
if every man and woman gifted with imagination
and impelled to composition, had first to pass an
examination in the scientific principles that underlie
their art before being allowed to write novels. Reviewers
may be, perhaps often are, grievously to
blame ; but, verily, caustic and unsparing criticism
is quite as often indispensable. Dayrell, however,
had two considerable advantages as a set-off against
his untrained though powerful imagination, and want
of experience — viz., first, the rigid rule he had laid
down for himself of writing only when he felt inspired,

and secondly, a tendency to look to One
Higher than himself for that inspiration.

Now as many eminent men of letters, while
heartily agreeing that the first of these rules is the
right canon for composition, would regard the
second as an eccentric weakness, it may be well to
remember that — just in proportion as he himself
"reached forth into the Infinite," seeking for the
Being of whom prophet and saint have spoken or
whom they passionately desired to find, in spite of
all the doubts and scoffing which some other part of
his nature seemed to be continually casting on his
aspirations — he could not persistently doubt or deny
that he did meet with an answering touch — that there
was some spiritual entity behind the dim cloud of
sense which environed him — and that he never
failed, sooner or later, to find the light, the guidance,
the consolation, the help for which he thus
tentatively groped and prayed.

True, he did not always find what he sought at
the time or in the way he desired and expected.
And then came a desperate inclination to fly back
into the despairing or defiant mood. But longer experience,
and especially the gradual discovery, that
even what at first had appeared most disastrous, and
cruelly disappointing, was in reality working out the
best possible results on an orderly and most loving
scheme, was slowly unfolding and cherishing a growing
deep-rooted conviction that he, and an innumerable
multitude of the best and bravest of his race

were not mistaken in believing that there was such
a Being as he sought — One who cared for hinii individually,
who prompted, inspired his aspirations, and
answered alike his longings and his cries.

Hence it happened that by the time this terrible
trial of separation from his beloved " Star-Queen "
came upon him, he found himself immovably rooted
not only in a determination to continue seeking, with
increasing earnestness, for "more light," strength,
deliverance, and love, from Some One who could give
them all in abundance — who was longing to bestow
them even more ardently that he to gain them —
but in a profound conviction that day by day he incas
finding something of that for which he sought — and
by degrees, a daily answer to his daily prayers.

Xo wonder, then, that his faith deepened and grew.
There is no proof to a blind man so satisfactory that
there is a bridge over a foaming river as to perceive
that he is crossing it in safety.

And thus it came to pass that young Darrell while
writing first his drama, and then his romance, did not
trust only to his own unaided efforts, but actually and
continually sought for some higher guidance and
light. Possibly this, again, led him to a rather presumptuous
estimate of the merits and probable success
of his composition. Those who deem him to have
judged truly as to the help that would be granted if
it were asked for, will readily believe that his work
was far better done by reason of such help. Nevertheless
it may be admitted that perhaps the ardent

author did not sufficiently consider another side of the
question, which however lay very close to his hand,
and which would have kept him more humble had
he appreciated it. He had for some time had a great
and growing liking for much of the Old Testament,
even admiration for the more poetical portions.
All those passages in which is manifested the old
Hebrew writers and singers' intense conviction of
the reality of God's existence, presence, and care for
the individual man, body and soul, were specially
dear to him. But at the present period of his life
he cared but little for the New Testament. Here
and there a text had struck him forcibly, but his
general impression of it was derived from the authorized
symbols and sermons of the Church, by which
he had been, not nurtured, but environed, and from
much of which he had revolted, almost as bitterly at
first as the Lady Stella herself.

Thus it happened that a certain verse contained ina
letter by Paul of Tarsus to his Ephesian converts
and which might have given him a useful hint, never
came under his notice till long afterwards. It was
the sentence which follows a singularly touching
description of the love of Christ, and is to this effect :
"Now unto Him who is able to do exceeding abundantly
above all we can ask or think, according to
the poiver which worketh in tis. . . ." The emphasis
here should be placed upon the last word, and
it is the whole of the last sentence that should be
laid to heart, it would seem, by devout yet ambitious

or aspiring poets, preachers, orators, novelists, statesmen,
as well as by "all sorts and conditions of men."
God's power to help us is necessarily more or less
limited by our own energy, faculty, power and will
to welcome and use it — in short, to help ourselves.
Had Wilfrid Dayrell been duly alive to this important
truth he, like many greater and lesser men, might
have been more humble, as well as more successful,
with regard to his own performances.

And yet a man of genius, even though it be not
of the very highest order, cannot be altogether
ignorant of his own creative power and insight, of
his exceptional capacity for influencing his fellowmen,
whether as orator, preacher or poet, author, statesman
or reformer, artist, scientist or philosopher. And as
it is only the disparity between the greatness of one's
ideal and the imperfection of the accomplished reality
which makes the gifted sons of genius moderately
humble, so it is evident that the poorer the endowments
and the lower the ideal of an aspirant for excellence
and fame, the greater his danger of becoming
conceited and proud. Dayrell's ideal was of the
loftiest ; but he was young, enthusiastic, ardently
desirous of achieving greatness, for the sake of all
that a young and passionate soul could most strongly
crave — not renown only, but that for which above
all he would value fame — the enduring possession of
a woman's love. No wonder if at times he dreamed
that he was very near his goal ; and at others sank
into the lowest depths of morbid despair.

While her lover was thus alternating between
rapture and misery, yet working bravely on through
storm and sunshine as best he could, the Lady
Stella in her new abode at the seaside was sliding
on through her daily round of existence in rather
an aimless dawdling fashion. In proportion as her
father regained health and her anxiety on that score
lessened, the sudden and distressing withdrawal
of the great stimulus given to her heart and intellect
by intercourse and sympathy with young Mr.
Dayrell was the more deeply felt. It had left too
painful a void in her aching heart and mind to
allow of speedy restoration to healthy activity of
mind and mental exertion. Early habits of quiet
steady industry would have been a great blessing to
her now, but unhappily these she had never possessed.
She had lived either on excitement of
various kinds, or in a state of listless indifference
and sarcastic combativeness and negations ever since
the great disappointment of her early years ; until
Dayrell's enthusiasm, intellectual power, and love for
herself had awakened her to a new and nobler life.
But his letters, when they came, at first filled her
with exceeding happiness, and cherished all her

romantic affection for the writer ; while at the same
time they often recalled and reproduced those intellectual
exertions and those moments of intense
delight in reading and study which had resulted
from his kindling touch, lighting up her whole
mind, as it did, with sparkling moral and intellectual
life.

But she found it was a very different thing, after
all, reading a lover's letters, and hearing him speak
sometimes with his hand clasping her own, his
bright piercing gaze reading her very heart and
soul, and then glancing upwards and far away as if
inviting her to follow in his lofty flights. Moreover
some of Dayrell's worst habits of mind and defects
of character were occasionally brought prominently
before her in his letters. His fatal tendency to
morbid repining and egotistic gloom which when
they were together she could laugh or " chaff " or
sing away, now told heavily against him. Then
sometimes she caught herself thinking with no little
pain that his letters were a trifle too sentimental,
rather too full of what the various satirical papers
she read, or the burlesques she heard, and once or
twice witnessed, called " gush'' a thought that had
never occurred to her when they were alone together
and when she sat beside his couch or her
head was on his cushion. And what, perhaps, vexed
her almost more than anything else, she could not
help thinking he wrote a little too much about
himself, too little about her own anxieties and

sorrows, too much about his " moralities," and
even more than once misunderstood her playful
raillery, and took offence at her affectionate satire
offence which he could not quite conceal.

The morbid melancholy was bad enough now that
that she could not chase it away, but the self-j^ity,
the egotism which almost inevitably besets strong
and passionate natures until chastened and subdued
by maturer nobler impulses, was still more repellent
; while his liability to misunderstand and his
sensitive readiness to be hurt by her innocent sarcasms
was perhaps the worst of all. Probably the
lady let drop a hint to that effect in one of her
replies, for in Dayrell's journal of this date there
was the following entry : — " Cruel ! — Egotistic ? Does
she mean then that I think more about myself
than her ? That is not true. ]S'o ; not for a
moment ! . . . But let me see. Am I egotistical
? Perhaps. I begin to fear it may be so. And
a vile weakness it is. Yet I don't think I was, in
old days. I think I have been, ever since my
accident, and perhaps am so worse than ever since
she left me alone with my wretchedness. But if a
man is passing through the fire, or lying badly
burnt, it is likely enough that he thinks too much
about himself."

Moreover Stella was now indispensable to her
father's comfort and recovery, therefore constantly
with him. And he had now become so gentle and
grateful through his illness, so changed from his

old impetuous irascible self, that she felt drawn to
him more and more. He was present to her everyday.
Her lover she never saw. It has been said
that

"Absence makes the heart grow fonder,"

but — cela depend. AVith more universal truth it
has been declared that absence strengthens a strong
attachment, weakens a weak one. But in every
case, how much depends on the nature and
character of those who love, and — on surrounding
circumstances. Who does not know the chilling

o

effect upon even a strong attachment of hearing or
seeing that others who are also dear to you, dislike,
perhaps severely condemn, your attachment, and disparage
your beloved one ? Or, vice versa. Who
does not also know the effect of Time in effacing
even the deepest impressions — an effect, blessed or
accursed as the case may be. But in this case not
only was Time, to some extent, silently, softly,
weakening the force of those deep influences which
the Lady Stella had believed were wrought into her
very soul, but week after week, month by month,
the mighty influences of love and pity for her
father were being more strongly enlisted against
the lover whom that father denounced, and helping
Time to push him from her heart.

Then one black day, there came into her mind,
she knew not how, the horrid thought that
perhaps all the time she had been so happy
with Mr. Wilfrid Dayrell she was living under

a weak sentimental glamour and delusion, superinduced
by his pretensions and sparkling but
superficial cleverness. . . . She thrust the
thought away indignantly, fiercely, and then was
dissolved in tears, bitterly weeping in lonely
grief, with no friend to comfort her, for her aunt
and cousin, of course, were in the enemy's camp, if
it was an enemy by whom she was assailed. And so
once and again she felt utterly alone — no friend, no
sister, no mother on earth, no Father in heaven.
The thought was misery, and she trampled it
under foot while her brain seemed on fire. But evil
thoughts will come back upon the soul which has no
master spell wherewith to exorcise them, like a
noiseless gliding serpent, armed with a deadly
sting. . . .

One day a letter addressed to her from Dayrell
was accidentally given with other letters to her father.
He opened it without noticing the address, read the
first words, and his pulse went up at a terrible
rate. Laying it down and gasping for breath, he
sent immediately for his daughter, who felt ready to
sink when she saw once again that upbraiding,
imploring look on his flushed face as with
trembling fingers he silently handed her the letter.
It was the look she remembered too well which
she had seen that sad day when he was tottering
on the edge of the grave. At length, with a
painful effort, he managed to say, " If that young
man writes to you, I trust and pray you will not

answer him. I should regard your doing so as a
breach of your agreement." Half-choked with contending
feelings, among which, no doubt, love and
pity for the poor sufferer before her then predominated,
Stella hastily replied, " Father, I will obey
you. Do not be excited and anxious. I will only
write once and tell him I must not write again."
Then she went to her room, mourning — and yet
(so strangely are emotions mingled in the human
heart) with some faint feeling of relief.

Well may the sacred poetess, however, sing in
regard to mortal woes,

Sweet rays of comfort shine between,
And thorns are mixed with flowers."

Doubtless she meant that even in the thorny-passages
of life, sweet flowers bloom to cheer the
pilgrim. But that last line may be taken by perverse
or repining spirits to mean that even flowery
delights have abundance of thorns among them.
Either interpretation would have suited Wilfrid
Dayrell's state of mind when he received Stella's
reply. It came like a poisonous blight, a veritable
Simoon of the desert, and a month or two sooner
would probably have done him lasting injury, even
if it had not a fatal effect on his enfeebled and
still suffering frame. For it was not merely the
entire cessation of all intercourse with his lady-love
that smote with such cruel force on Dayrell's heart.
The sweet plaintive tenderness which breathed
through her note did something to soften the
VOL. II. 19

blow ; and he knew the twelve months during
which she had promised not to see him had more
than half expired. It was the conviction now forced
on him of the old man's undiminished antipathy
to him — of the consequent certainty that, while he
lived, that hostility would continue, perhaps increase,
and compel his daughter to renew her promise
when the year was up — which now came over him
with such harrowing power. But happily for him
there was a new element growing up within him,
doth in body and soul, to resist the powers of evil
that were seeking, as he thought, to crush him.
The new life and energy gained by his many
happy hours with the girl who still wrote to him
in tenderest love, and by the resolute zeal with
which he had been surrendering himself to all the
exquisite joy and exhausting toil of composition,
had for some months past been successfully combating
the arrest of vitality in his lower limbs.
Hence a few days before this last letter arrived,
the doctor had given him leave to ride a quiet
pony lent by a friendly neighbour. It was not like
bestriding the swift and high-bred animal on which
with the old Dayrell instinct he used to dash about
the country in the days of his health and vigour.
But it was a rare delight and refreshment — a vast
improvement on the wheel-chair by which he had
previously been getting air and exercise. In that
he could move along only by his arms ; and he was
now prepared for the larger locomotion which

seemed to him like once more rising into life
from the " under-worlds' So he accepted his new
sorrow in a manly spirit, and wrote and rode, and
talked and played chess with his mother and sisters
and the few friends who were accessible, with
growing satisfaction and health.

Two or three of his old Oriel friends besides
Ellerslie were also delighted to come and see him
in turn, now that he could welcome them and
enjoy their society ; so that altogether (though occasionally
oppressed by an aching weary heart) he
got through his daily work and life with a degree
of happiness and peace which rather surprised and
puzzled him.

Yet if a man is not happy while engaged in composing
a drama, a novel, a history or indeed when
engaged in creating or constructing any piece of
work, he may be tolerably sure few mortals will
care to read his composition, fewer still to admire
that or any other work of his brain and hands. It
is after the work is completed and the poet, the
preacher, the artist, the machinist, the artizan,
desires the approval, perhaps the patronage, of a
capricious, undiscerning, hoodwinked public, that
the time for sorrow and wasting disappointment
may be at hand.

Dayrell's first attempt had been a tragedy, long
meditated and planned, which he thought would
"tell" on the stage. His Oxford friends exerted
themselves with immense and commendable zeal,

19—2

and with a genuine admiration for their old chum's
production, to get some London manager to put it
on the stage. But, alas, they found there were only
two theatres out of the scores in the metropolis at
which anything in the shape of the " regular
drama " was ever received, and the managers of
both of these declared they were almost suffocated
under the piles of manuscript dramas sent to them
" some of them, I assure you, Sir, of first-rate
excellence. But there, you see, it's burlesque and
ballet that pays. We do our best to help the
high-class drama on the stage, but we have to be
very cautious. Sir — very cautious. However, we will
look at your friend's tragedy in its turn, with
pleasure, and let you know our decision at the
earliest possible season."

This was the kind of answer received in the
most hopeful quarters — and therefore Dayrell waited
and — hoped.

While waiting — partly to relieve the painful suspense,
but also because his brain was teeming with
two or three characters, many incidents, a plot and
a purpose — Dayrell flew once more to pen and
paper and began a novel. It was a delightful,
though sometimes a direfully perplexing task. He
had never studied the technique of the art of
fiction, and like thousands of young authors, thought
(as we said above), he had only to pour out his soul
in due embodiment of imaginary life and character.
Accordingly in time he produced a tale of a wholly

original type — somewhat inartistic, with many faults
of construction, but containing evidence, nevertheless
of true genius, full of striking interest, and pervaded
by an element of deep pathos and romantic power.
His mother and sisters of course, but his Oxford
friends also, were enthusiastic in their admiration
and hopes. Somebody managed to let the Lady
Stella know what was coming, and her eye
brightened and her pulses throbbed. But when
week after week passed by, and no advertisement
appeared, no flourish of trumpets heralding the
approaching publication of her lover's book, she
sighed sorrowfully or smiled sarcastically, by turns,
and thought that on the whole Mr. Dap-ell's friends
were much too sanguine as to his powers and
success.

The fact was that great difficulty was experienced
in finding a publisher who would undertake the
work at his own risk. Publishers' readers are often
able men or women, but they are bored to death
with perpetual MS., and are inclined to think their
employers would be better pleased to miss the publication
of three successful fictions than incur the
damage of sending forth one failure. At last,
exasperated by the blindness of the leading houses,
the good Oxonian angels — who had each in turn
first tramped in person to Paternoster Row,
Piccadilly and Waterloo Place, then forwarded the
manuscript by post to the neighbourhood of Covent
Garden, &c., only to receive back their precious

burden in due course with the regulation regrets
determined, unknown to Dayrell, on an heroic
course, for they wouldn't wound his feelings by
revealing all the baseness of the publishing ring,
but secretly clubbed their resources, and gave the
required guarantee to a second-rate consenting firm.
Forthwith it was put in hand, and the delighted
author had the inexpressible joy, week by week,
of receiving the proof-sheets. In the meantime,
to supply the needful " aliquid mari " in his cup
of bliss, Dayrell one day had his beloved drama
returned from the last theatrical manager to whom
it had been entrusted, "with many thanks for the
favour, &c.," and "regrets that the present condition
of the English stage, and the numerous similar
offers made him, &c., &c." (Similar, indeed! as if
any other composition since Shakespeare's time was
or could be similar to his !)

Gathering courage and inspiration, as usual
from partial failure, Dayrell had set to work again
on his play, while the weary work of attempting
to get his novel published went forward, and gave
loose to the strong desire he had previously felt,
to develop the characters and significance of his
dramatic ideas in the form of a dramatic romance,
or poem, for the library, as he could not get it on
the stage. This also was a labour of love and joy,
which perhaps ought to have been sufficient
blessedness for the present world without ever
seeing his composition in print.

Nonsense ! who ever poured out the strong full
tide of passionate imagination and emotion, whether
in stone or on canvas, in literary or musical composition,
or on the stage, without being possessed
with an equally strong desire to win the admiration,
sympathy, and love of his fellow-creatures !
That desire is something nobler than vanity, or
even than ambition, a desire in which we can
conceive angels sharing — inspired by the Divine
Poet— the-poeta, the Maker "himself.

Hence our ardent literary aspirant laboured to
make his dramatic poem presentable to the public
in the noblest form which he could give it — a
work interrupted only by the weekly arrival of the
sheets of his novel.

Was there ever such a mad-cap " Timothy'
Grasp-air' under the sun? Plenty of authors as
eager and indefatigable, as full of schemes, and
ideas — working for fame, or bread. But this
worker was spurring the wild coursers of his restless
brain, not for money, nor renown. Was it a loftier
prize he sought — the admiration and the love of
many, in order that he might be the admired and
the beloved of one?

If, however, it was a hard matter to find a
publisher sufficiently discerning or enterprising to
bring out the novel at his own risk, the task was
twice as arduous in the case of the dramatic poem.
'' That kind of thing, sir, is an absolute drug in
the market," was the almost invariable answer.

The allotted twelve months thus passed away.

But when that eventful year had ended, the
Lady Stella was far away from the scene of former
temptation, safely removed from that near neigh-hood
of Aldclyffe Priory, which might have proved
too dangerous to her filial loyalty and love. As
the summer took wing with the swallows Sir
Michael and his daughter had departed to that
charming watering-place Bournemouth, but Lady
Stella had had no farewell meeting with her lover.
Not a word of course passed now between them ;
and worst of all, as she thought — (little recking of
the worse that remained behind) — she could hear
no tidings, see no sign in the publishing or reviewers'
sky of the lightning flash of genius which
was to startle and subdue alike her father and
the world.

In the meantime, in the new world where they
were now anchored for a time, she became
immersed, not only in the best of the Dorset and
Hands county society, but in what she infinitely
preferred, the society of a few men eminent in
literature and science who were recruiting their
over-wrought brains, or dilapidated hangs, in the soft

genial air of the " English Naples." Her aunt
as well as her cousin had accompanied her father
and herself thither, and, naturally, they promoted
to the utmost this mild social dissipation, in the
hope that it would chase from poor Stella's mind
her former misguided attachment. After the long
comparative seclusion of her ancestral home, cultivated
and lively society was inevitably refreshing.
Besides, what woman, or for that matter what man,
does not, at least for a time, enjoy — yet perhaps
with a little secret feeling of shame — being admired.
Never before, either in London during
the season, or in her own beautiful country home,
least of all in " county society," had the heiress
of Hurstleigh Manor enjoyed such frequent, in fact
daily, delightful opportunities of intercourse with
men of high cultivation and superior abilities.
Hence she seemed never to have known before
what social life might really be. And wherever
she went, in all circles grave or gay, with all the
charm of her youthful grace and handsome features,
to say nothing of her rank and wealth, Lady Stella
Faulconhurst was naturally an object of considerable
interest, becoming, ere long, the centre of
attraction no less by her personal charms than
by the liveliness of her conversation, the delight
she took in '* drawing out " eminent men, and the
saucy piquancy of her sarcasms or repartee. One
of the ** lions " of the hour, who was a scientist of
European fame, and a middle-aged bachelor,

seemed specially fascinated by this brilliant specimen
of a sex for wliicb lie had not previously
felt any particular liking or admiration — scarcely,
perhaps, even respect. True he might have been
unfortunate in the specimens with whom he had
been most familiar, — but never, he was certain,
in love with or bondage to them.

His talk on scientific subjects, on supra-scientific
subjects, on all sorts of subjects (for he seemed to
know a great deal about every subject), was delightful
to Lady Stella, and to many other people also.
He was certainly a very clever man, laid himself
out to amuse and captivate his latest discovery —
enjoyed giving her abundant evidence that he was
little short of omniscient. Especially interesting
to the inquiring and sceptical maiden were his discourses
on the origin and constitution of the Universe
; and painfully charming his clear and convincing
demonstrations that there was no such thing as
that absurd " Grreat First Cause " of which sundry
benighted fanatics, in nightmare visions, had dreamed.
It was just as easy to suppose that the earth, the
stars, the Universe had existed from all Eternity,
as that an imaginary omnipotent creator had done
so. If He were uncreated, why not the Universe ? "

Nay," replied Stella audaciously on one occasion,
inspired by memories of the Priory, " is it not more
reasonable to suppose an Intelligent Personal Creative
Will, designing, forming, adapting this marvellous
system in which we find ourselves, than to suppose

all that fitness and adaptation of atoms came about
by chance — to suppose that Evolution has proceeded
in its grand developments only by a happy-go-lucky
process which might just as easily have been a series
of perpetual malformations, retrograde movement,
and agonizing disorder ? "

We have no evidence for either hypothesis,"
remarked the great philosopher, " and it would be
most unscientific to accept an hypothesis without
adequate-evidence."

From talks like these this singular girl would
return home, flee to her room, and kneeling before
a beautiful photograph of her wounded lover which
his mother had managed to have taken for her in
bygone days, she implored him to forgive her for
enjoying the society and speculations of the eminent
scientist, and to preserve her, by his mysterious
power over her, both from a return to all her old
scepticism and from breaking faith with him.

And week by week she watched with trembling
eagerness for the appearance of Dayrell's drama on
the stage, or of his novel among " new publications."
Some of the leading literary journals she could see
at the principal local news-room, others she had from
a bookseller. Watched long in vain. And as she felt
the new glow of delight in listening to the intellectual
talk of historian, philosopher, poet, and especially
of the one man who seemed to tower above
the rest, all of whom she was continually meeting in
public reading-rooms, private drawing-rooms, or on the

pier and esplanade, she became increasingly conscious,
or thought so, of the extent to which her faith and
loyalty to her captive knight depended on his
power to achieve a striking literary or dramatic
success. And possibly so it was. For Lady Stella
tried to forget that she was a woman, and to
believe that that she was only a Mind.

Of course another powerful motive for longing to
behold Dayrell's triumphs, and one which she
always put prominently forward in her own solitary
communing, was the importance of her father
learning through reliable public sources, how great
an admiration was felt by the public and its
literary leaders for the genius of the man whom he
condemned her so bitterly for having admired and
loved.

At last the " magnum opus " was fairly off the
the stocks. Two or three preliminary announcements
had in a slight degree prepared the way,
and when that mysterious ceremony was gone
through of " subscribing the trade "' the next steps
for securing attention to the venture on which such
important results to the anxious author depended,
were the getting the book favourably reviewed and
extensively advertised. With regard to the last
measure, Fred Ellerslie who chiefly acted for the
Oxford set on Dayrell's behalf, found a lamentable
diversity of opinion existing between himself and
the publisher. This last gentleman, secure in his
guarantee, considered an amount of advertising
amply sufficient which Fred and his friends, as well
as two or three leading publishers, declared was ludicrously
inadequate and a violation of his agreement.
Moreover what little advertising took place was done
before any favourable notices of the novel had appeared
from which impressive quotations could be
made. But then, would there be — were there, any
favourable notices for either the indifferent general
public to read, or for the anxious maiden to devour,
watching for them wearily by the sea ?

Well, what passed in regard to this " review "
business was rather curious — perhaps sufficiently sO
to merit a page or two of description. Dayrell's
doughty champion had a friend who, though, like
himself, called to the bar, had sufficient leisure,
strange to say, to do a little reviewing and journalistic
work in addition to his professional practice.
Hence he was now and then " behind the scenes."
This, then, was the account the champion gave
Dayrell one Saturday evening when he had comedown
to the Priory to stay till Monday, and when
the ladies had retired after dinner. (These little
visits by the bye, to the home of Dayrell's fair
young sister, were a charming reward for all this
imperturbable young gentleman's exertions, but both
he and Dayrell believed he would have worked just
as hard for his friend if he hadn't been in love.)

I called, then, on my legal and literary friend as
I told you I would, last Wednesday at his chambers
in the Temple to hear what hopes he could
give me of favourable reviews in any quarters, and
found he had been using his influence as energetically
as was consistent with dignity and discretion."

Stop," interrupted Dayrell. " Had you asked him
to use influence ? "

Of course, I had," replied his friend. '' How on
earth could either he or I be of any use to you."

I thought," said Dayrell pensively, " all that was
wanted was just to secure attention to the book, and
then that it ought to stand on its own merits."

\\Tiew ! " whistled his friend, and with a cheerful
smile proceeded thus :

Xow look here, my dear fellow, I know, and
others, better judges perhaps than I, know that your
novel is a little out of the common — that it has an
amount of power and ' go ' and originality about it
that would be certain to secure a great success if —
if, mind — there were only as many novels published
now as when Sir Charles Grandison saw the light.
But seeing that there are about five hundred times
that number published at the present day in one
form or another "

I allow it," said Dayrell ; " but then, look how
the number of readers has increased."

True ; but not the number of those who would
care to read novels like yours. Eemember that no
novel gets much sale nowadays unless the circulating
libraries are besieged for it, and that happens only
when either its extraordinary merit or its hitting
popular favour from some exceptional cause sets a
hundred thousand people talking about it at once."

And what sets them talking about it ? "

First, the literary journals praising it. Secondly,
some gi"eat man praising it publicly. The remarkable
success of a really clever novel a few years ago was
mainly owing to the Prime Minister of the day writing
a letter of thanks to the author, which of course
the publishers widely advertised. True, he would
not have so written had not the book been one of
great merit. But not a circulating library in the

kingdom, and not five hundred of their subscribers
would probably have discovered its real merit but
for that letter."

I see. And what is the next condition of
success ? "

That the novel should be written in a thoroughly
popular style, which yours is not, and that
it should not be weighted with much thought,
which yours is. Novel readers don't like being made
to think."

I see. And what's the next essential ? "
*' The flavour of the managers of the great circulating
libraries. Look here. A book may have
extraordinary merit — like yours— restez tranqidUe,
But unless people read and like it, and reviewers
praise it, they can't recommend it to their friends.
Now, most of the subscribers to large libraries have
to send lists of many more books than they are entitled
to in order that the manager may select such
as happen to be ' in,' or — such as are published by

his business friends "

*' Oh, oh ! " cried Dayrell. " You don't mean "

But I do. Kissing goes by favour, all the world
over. And then, don't you see, if a subscriber puts
the same book on his list four or five times and
can't get it, he] probably gives it up as a bad job, or
forgets all about it and takes some other of the
infinite variety offered him."

Well, but he can't have it if it's not in."

Of course not — but it's not * in ' because there

have been so few copies ordered from the publisher.
Of books published by some firms there will be
twenty copies ordered for one published by a second-rate
establishment. Therefore, I repeat, if people
can't get the book from the libraries they don't read
it (for nobody buys novels till they appear in a cheap
edition), and if they don't ^^ad it how can they
recommend their friends to ask for it — and if it's
not asked for, a very small number of copies suffice
for the libraries. It gains no fame, and secures only
just enough sale to reimburse the publisher — perhaps.
not that."

Dayrell drew a long breath, and remarked in a
dreary sort of way :

Then I had better not have published at all if
I couldn't get a favoured firm to do the needful.
Why didn't you tell me all this before, my dear old
boy."

Because I've only just learnt it myself."

But the reviewers I " exclaimed Dayrell, with returning
animation."

Ah, the reviewers ! " replied his friend. *' Just
try to realize, if you can, what the position and condition
of a reviewer for any of the great literary
journals is. Think of the enormous flood of works
of every description constantly issuing from the
London publishers' alone, all pouring in upon the
Review Department.' How is it possible that more
than a very few can be read with any attention, even
with their large staff of reviewers, or that any coi.-
VOL. II. 20

miserable number can really be read at all? Yet
even that, perhaps, is not the worst of it. My legal-literary
friend when I was asking him to try and get
—I won't say a favourable notice, but, well, what
you ask for, viz., attention, fair play — what do you
think he answered ? ' The thing can't be done.
If Mr. Dayrell were already a well-known and
eminent writer, he would be secure in some quarters,
at least, of fair and respectful attention. But careful
reviews must be reserved for those whose names,
or very exceptional merits, or some accidental circumstance,
and especially whose publishers, entitle
them thereunto.' * But,' said I, * knowing as you do
the real merit of this book of Dayrell's, which sou
told me you did, in spite of its faults, couldn't you
plead for a good notice of it on the ground of an

old friend having ' * Yes, yes,' he said, ' that's

a different thing. I'll gladly do my best for your
friend, that is, for yovu.'' "

With what result ? " inquired Dayrell, painfully
interested.

Something of this kind, I fancy. Imagine a
literary sanctum — no matter where. Much overworked
and worried reviewer seated at the table.
To him enters legal-literary friend, saying, ' Can I
speak with you a moment ? ' ' By all means. Sit
down. What is it ? ' ' Can you give this book a
lift, or let me do it ? Capital book — well deserves
it.' Reviewer looks at it hastily. * Rather a poor
firm on the title-page. Besides, we have had to

praise so many new works lately, and there are several
more that must be cracked up. It will never do to
be glorifying another just now by an unknown man.
Do you know the author ? ' ' My friend does.'
*Ah, but that's a long way off. I'm afraid it can't
be managed. But stay; do you know this fellow?'
putting another book that lay beside him into
my friend's hand. *No — never heard of him.' * Nor
anybody else that I know of,' quoth Reviewer. ' So
write a sharp critique — pitch into him, and then in
our next issue we may perhaps squeeze in a bit of
praise for your much-deserving client.' My friend
thanks Reviewer and retires. But unluckily he has
still a little conscience, in spite of the hardening
effect of several years' reviewing and practice at the
bar, and he finds the book just given him so clever
and sensible that he is unable conscientiously to
discover much fault with it — can't help, in fact,
praising it rather highly. Result — balance of praise
and blame disturbed in review department of influential
literary Leviathan, and the necessary consequence
is, that your book is "

Damned," interposed Dayrell.

No. Regard for my friend prevents. Another
victim is selected, and you are put up with a lot of
other rubbish and sent to the second-hand bookseller
without being reviewed at all. Remember, my
dear fellow, you are better off than many of your
fool-hardy brethren. Here's another little scene for
your consideration :

20—2

Critic's Sanctum — to him enter Editor, "oat of
sorts " (troubled with indigestion, or liver, or east wind).

Editor, " Well, what about this book ? You've
looked at it ? "

Critic, " Yes, good book certainly. May say,
very good."

Editor, "Oh bother! Don't believe it."

Critic. "Well, no doubt, he's a nous homo, but
there's a dash and ' go ' and grasp of "

Editor. " Nonsense ! My dear fellow, you are
always seeing beauty in cabbage stalks. There
can be any merit in that rigmarole, or one of the
leading firms would have taken it. Besides we've
praised as many lately as we dare. You'll ruin the
paper if it once loses its name for severity.
Judex damnatur &c.' Xow let's go and dine."

Scene closes. So much for Buckingham. What
does it matter if a promising young life is ruined,
so that the paper sells. But just as I was
leaving my legal-literary amicus, with hearty
thanks for all his valuable hints, he turned to me
and said quite pathetically:

"Xow don't think hard things of reviewers. They
are a much-oppressed and much-to-be-pitied race of
men."

Particularly," I added, " when they let a good
book lie unnoticed for months, then send it to be
sold, subsequently find it highly praised in influential
quarters and much sought for. What happens
then ? "

** Oh, then the publisher or author writes to ask
if we have not received a copy and why we haven't
noticed it, whereupon he is told by the man who
does the lying for us, that it has never been
received, or has been mislaid, or if his conscience is
tender he says it can't be found, which is quite
true, you know, and that the editor will take care,
if another copy is sent, that it shall have immediate
attention."

May I ask," quoth I, " if a duplicate copy has
often to be sent ? "

Oh no, not above once in half a dozen times.
But office boys are much given to literature, if at
all saleable. It's a great help to their families."

I laughed, shook hands and retired, with a
humble conviction that editors of literary journals
should be forbidden by law — (i.e. the law of the
eighth and ninth commandments) — to receive more
books for review than they can honestly read, mark,
and fairly criticize. But I didn't tell my critic
friend this, only laughed in a time-serving, hypocritical
fashion and came away."

Dayrell couldn't help laughing also, in spite of
his vexation, but presently said :

"Yet this, after all, is merely your own invention.
Things can't really be as bad as that. You know
you've been evolving it all out of your inner consciousness."


Of course, of course," replied his friend, seeing
how disgusted and melancholy Dayrell looked. But

he couldn't help adding : " I've never been a critic
myself, never been behind the scenes. Reviewers
are the most high-principled of men, much more so
than tradesmen. They are not at all deluged and half-suffocated
with new books— never see books on their
table, month after month, waiting to be reviewed,
till they are sick of the very sight of them — are
never told by judicious editors that it will never do
to get a character for praising all the books sent to
them, and that a certain proportion must always be
snubbed and shown up, irrespective of their merits.
Nothing of this kind ever happens of course. So
don't imagine it, my dear fellow. Believe in the
immaculate virtue and justice of all literary journals
and their editors, and that they dwell in a garden
of Eden, honest, impartial, naked to their enemies,
and, in their innocence, not ashamed."

You have so poor an opinion, Fred, of most of
your fellow-creatures," said Dayrell, " that I am perforce
reminded of the reply I once heard — and you
heard too — a lady friend of mine make to a handsome
but flippant young gentleman, a barrister I
think, who was grievously disparaging the fair sex."

And she replied — ? "

That she feared he had been unfortunate in his
company. Thereupon he subsided."

Ha — very good. Yes, very good. But mark, I
have a better opinion at least of reviewers than
you, for you seem always to forget that they
don't ask authors to send their books for review.

The authors and publishers force them on the unhappy
reviewers." ^

"Yet it would be a tolerably bad look-out for the
latter if no books were sent."

True. A very profitable business with second-hand
booksellers would then be knocked on the head. So
reviewers had better mind their P.'s and Q.'s. I only
wish you to remember that there's no breach of contract
if a book is cut up, or not reviewed at all.
Now let us go to the ladies," and considering
the sentiments entertained by the last speaker towards
one of those ladies, the time he had spent in
enlightening or misleading his friend as to the
secrets of publishing and reviewing, was certainly
some evidence, as he justly thought, of the strength
and sincerity of his friendship.

Dayrell was less cheerful the rest of the evening
than his visitor or his sister. A sense of coming
woe once more oppressed him. Not without reason.
Things turned out very much as his friend had
foreshadowed. Several of the second-class literary
authorities and more than one of the leading provincial
journals hailed the book with high yet
discriminating praise in articles that showed close
attention had been paid to it, and pains taken todo
it full justice. The writers were not smothered
in new publications to the same extent as the leading
journals. But for some time the latter were
silent.

Lady Stella, of course, received ;m early copy ;

and in her far-away bower, listening to the hoarse
dash of the waves, devoured it with eagerness, and
on the whole with admiration and delight. Much
of it seemed to her, as to Dayrell's other friends,
witty and brilliant, with a plot and a pathos in portions,
that kept up a deep sustained interest and
left the reader with a moistened eye. But the state
of her father's health and his feelings towards the
author would have made it most unsafe to put the
book itself before Sir Michael, without a high-class
favourable notice. Yet none came. And still she
looked and watched in vain. Dayrell, and his
various friends also snatched up these journalistic
arbiters of destiny week by week, or day by day —

And gazed along the dreary plain " —

and possessed their souls, not in patience. At
length one of the great arbiters of authors' destinies
gave a brief notice of the book, in which among
other disparaging remarks — (some wise and some
foolish) — but without a word of praise, the reviewer
called the hero a prig, and intimated that the
author himself must have a very unsavoury mind
to write such a composition. Lady Stella, seated ina
quiet corner of the pier, with the widely-circulated
and influential journal in her hands, saw the name
of her lover's tale among the " Reviews," at last;
sat a little while full of the pleasures of hope,"
anticipating a treat, and in glad expectancy asked
'' what were the wild waves saying ? " She learnt
too soon what the sneering editorial surges in the

printed page before her were saying, and saying it
moreover, to a listening world. She sent them
swiftly over the pier railing to join their briny
relations murmuring below, cast one long mournful
look across the ocean, and walked home, musing
sadly and savagely by turns on the injustice and
cruelty of man to man — and to woman.

But another day there was another journal in her
hands, one that had a high character for impartiality
and a love of justice. She turned eagerly,
once more in hope, to the page on which the book
was noticed and read as follows : " This novel has a
good purpose and is full of promise, but the author
has much to learn. To go fully into its merits and
significance would occupy far more time and space
than it is worth, and therefore we must reluctantly
forbear." One of the cruellest cuts of all, however,
was a notice in which the reviewer gave the outline
of the story, plot, catastrophe, and all, so that no
well-regulated novel-reader could possibly feel any
intelligent interest in reading the book after being
told its mysteries.

"For," as Dayrell bitterly remarked to his friend,
This process of exasperation destroys the very life
of a tale. Its incidents and plot should illustrate
and gradually develop the characters and purpose
of the novel. To separate them from the rest of
the book, to cut out perhaps some of the most telling
scenes, and hang them up like strings of tripe in a
huckster's shop, is handing over the poor author to

be hanged, drawn and quartered, as if he were guilty
of double-dyed treason I "

Too true," replied Fred, restraining his mirth
at the conceit, with an assumed and meditative melancholy.
" I suppose that's why you were always so
savage with Lamb for writing those ' Tales from
Shakespeare.' "

Of course. It's a shameful book, and reading
it when a boy, spoiled my pleasure in reading
Shakespeare himself, for many a day."

Dayrell was engaged in perusing these tormenting
notices about the same time that his Star-Queen
bent over them with aching heart ; and possibly
some wild " brain-waves," from each other's material
organ of thought, in addition to their own sad
secret musings, disturbed their rest that night.
But then, —

There is a day of sunny rest

For every dark and troubled night,
And {rrief may bide an evening guest,

But joy will come with morning light "—

in the shape of some of the aforesaid second-class
reviewers. Not very great joy, but soothing and
consolatory.

Still, in answer to repeated inquiries, it was said
the book didn't " go." Nobody appeared particularly
interested in it. Few had heard of it.
The fortunate few who did get it from the libraries
by dint of persevering application, were enthusiastic
in their praise; but the friends to whom they

praised it applied for it in vain, till wearied by
delay, just as Dayrell's friend had warned him,
they ceased to put it on their list and forgot all
about it.

Still there were three mighty journalistic potentates
left who had not yet spoken. One never did
speak — quietly ignored it. Perhaps the office-boy
and his family much enjoyed its perusal — or at least
the money it fetched at a second-hand bookstall.
Another reviewer, on being reminded of the book
by the author's friend or the publisher, gave it a
clear column of satirical censure and keen-witted
abuse, which Dayrell's friends assured him was
almost better than praise in such a quarter, and
certainly far better than being ignored altogether.
Dayrell couldn't quite see it — nor could his ladylove.
The third, a very high-class organ, about
eight months after publication, on a second copy
being furnished, gave a remarkably thoughtful and
appreciative review a column and a half long, which
if it had appeared within a month or two of the
issue of the book, would have more than half made
its fortune. But it was too late to be of much use.
The tide had rolled by. Innumerable other books
of equal or greater interest were pouring from the
press, and any would-be readers of Dayrell's production
had now no difficulty in getting their wants
supplied from the great circulating library shelves,
for scarcely anybody was inquiring for it.

So Stella, unenlightened like Fred EUerslie and

her lover, mused upon these phenomena mournfully,
two lines in his dramatic poem which he once
quoted to her while he was composing it were now
continually haunting her.

"I make more friends than I can keep — and Love
Is born and nursed in Ignorance . . . . "

*' Ah ! " she said to herself, " perhaps I thought
this young man was greater, wiser than he is."

Dayrell also mused, and said to khnseU, as he
clenched his hands till the blood started from his
finger-tips, " Oh, how could I ever have been so mad
a fool as to attempt to win a name and keep a
woman's heart by play or novel-writing ! "

"But, my dear fellow," said his sympathetic friend,
inadvertently, the next time they met, while his
mother and sisters warmly echoed the remark, " your
dramatic poem is a far finer thing than this novel.
We can't get any publisher to take it at his own
risk, and all available spare funds have been used
up in the * novel ' enterprise. But "

*' The deuce they have ! " exclaimed Dayrell, guessing
for the first time the generous part these
friends had been playing in order to secure the
appearance of the novel.

But," continued Ellerslie, calmly, " we are going
to invite some cultivated lovers of the Muse to join
in subscribing for a sufficient number of copies to
allow of our going to press with it — and once
printed, your fame and your happiness are secured
for life. Don't stare — or swear. I assure you in all

sober earnest, three or four very high authorities
have declared that it must see the light."

Very good," said Dayrell. " Xow understand —
you are, all of you, the finest and most generous
fellows that ever walked, either at Oriel, or in any
saints' shoes, before or since the Deluge, dead or
living. But for all that, somebody is going to have
back every penny they've spent on my wretched
romance. I will have nothing more, myself, to do
with publishing, or composing either, though the
world, i.e., my world, may go to the devil in consequence,
and take me with it."

Accordingly, he compelled EUerslie to make his
friends take back every shilling they had clubbed to
pay " the rapacious publisher," but in return they
did make Dayrell hand over to them unconditionally
the MS. of his dramatic poem. Thereupon they
had a reading of it during three evenings in the
rooms of one of the Fellows of Oriel. At the conclusion
most of the company were enthusiastic, and
they soon got enough names as subscribers to bring
it out in handsome form. But its appearance was
not till many months later than the epoch of the
present "Dead Sea apple" season.

Rather more favourable notice was taken of this
literary venture than of the other. It was full of
passion and power, with scenes of singular beauty
and dramatic force, and whenever an unblessed reviewer
took the requisite time to read and study it,
he could in no wise forbear giving it hearty praise.

But the usual difficulties were in even greater force
with a dramatic poem than a novel, and hence it
get but scant attention in reviews, and few
readers beyond the Oxford subscribers and their
friends. It was sent to Stella — she knew not by
whom — but it came at an unpropitious moment, as
will be presently seen — long after she had ceased
caring greatly for the honour that " comes from
men," and had given up looking for and reading
"Notices of the Press," in deadly disgust.

One word in regard to all this question of criticism
and reviewing before quitting it.

In later and calmer moods, when, through the
lapse of time and growth of wisdom, the sting of
disappointment and indignation at what he deemed
unjust and cruel treatment, had ceased to pain,
Dayrell doubtless saw plainly enough that rubbish,
whether in literary or material form, must be
made away with. He also saw that if on the one
hand some " Snarled-Yow " of a reviewer likes nothing
better than " cutting-up " an unfortunate author, and
grieves when it is clearly necessary to praise, on the
other hand it is a great temptation to a merciful
or kind-hearted critic to praise where he ought to
censure, and spare when he should smite. No doubt
there is much to be said, at the right time, on the
one hand, regarding the immense responsibility devolving
on men who undertake to pass judgments
on all the books sent to them for review — judgments
which may exert a wholly incalculable influence on

the usefulness and happiness, perhaps on the whole
lives of the authors — and on the other band, as
regards the general incompetency or temporary unfitness
of the reviewer for his work. Many a novel
with a purpose " unquestionably comes under the
notice of regular hack critics who are utterly incapable
of appreciating that purpose, even if they
came to the consideration of it (which circumstances
can rarely permit them to do) in a suitable frame
of mind. They know, moreover, that nine-tenths of
the novel-reading public want to be amused rather
than instructed ; and, as DayreU's friend said to him,
London critics' heads are probably full of anything
rather than sermons — except, of course, on Sunday.
Serious thought of any kind is not germane to the
hack critic mind. London, my dear boy, remember,
is altogether worldly-minded — which is very naughty
of it — but really the Clubs alone, to say nothing of
the theatres, the drawing-rooms, the dinners, the
Stock Exchange, Mark and Mincing Lanes, as well
as Philistine ' villa-dom,' are sufficient to imbue the
human soul with an overpowering and exclusive
interest in this present world. Only an earthquake,
a la Lisbon, a devastating pestilence, a foreign
successful invasion, or an insurrection of the unemployed
and * dangerous ' classes (not of the
political but social Parisian type), with a nice
little Reign of Terror to follow, would suffice
to spiritualize London society, whether of high
or low degree. Blame not professional critics.

then, if they snub or satirize ' novels with a
purpose.' "

"But, Ellerslie, after all, the use of Fiction for
didactic and propagandist purposes surely needs no
vindication. Worldly-minded as you and the critics
are, you know well it has been consecrated to that
object by the example of the wise and good in every
age, especially by what I should call the Highest
authority, eighteen centuries ago. Nicld war ? "

Well, I suppose," answered Ellerslie, " as a
matter of fact the original use of fiction undoubtedly
was to convey religious instruction, political or moral
teaching, and to preserve historical records. But
Fiction-writing has now become a branch of the Fine
Arts, and should be perpetrated only in an artistic
spirit."

"Woe betide the novel-writer who plies his task
under any meaner inspiration."

Glad you've grace enough to see that."

And have you grace enough, Saint Frederic, to
see that if it be inartistic to have a lot of * moral '
in one's tale, John Bunyan was an inartistic duffer,
and the grandest Fiction in the English language is
not a true work of Art."

Oh, come — I don't say that. And I am bound
to admit that the employment of Fiction for mere
amusement is a product of modern and a rather
debased civilization — too often degraded by an utter
disregard of both the rules and the spirit of all true
Art."

And remember," rejoined Dayrell, *' that if I
grant fiction-writing for mere amusement to be not
only legitimate when really artistic, but in these
days of worry, sickness and care, often highly beneficial,
pray observe that this gives no ground for
finding fault with the rock from which the modern
product is hewn, or for exclaiming to ' Fiction
weighted with a moral,' * What doest thou here ? ' "

Granted."

Then stand up before the world like a man, and
say that parables to the end of Time should be
welcome, and are blessed to the elect."

Xo doubt ; but London reviewers are not of the
elect, and I fear cannot inherit the blessing."

Then, may be, they will in due time appropriate
the other thing."

Don't curse them."

Xo need. They do it themselves. I merely
prophesy. And as they are sm-e of retribution, I
freely forgive them all."

"Generous Soul. That is the true Christian
Spirit."

'' Yes. For was it not Christ who said, ' With
what measure ye mete, it shall be measured unto
you again ? ' Let wife-beaters, vivisectionists, and
critics lay that lesson to heart."

VOL. II. 21

As time went on, and it was decreed by the doctors
that Sir Michael Ronhead ought to remain in the
south, the learned professor decided it was necessary
for his own complete recovery also to remain in the
same neighbourhood. He was happier than ever in
his life before, except when he had been an undergraduate
of his University ; for in conversing with
the Lady Stella, and instructing her in scientific
mysteries, he was not only enjoying the society of
a very charming girl, but renewing all the happiness
of his own brilliant scientific career. She, for
her part, found his conversation and instruction
perfectly enchanting — for a time. It was an immense
relief to her, the not having to bother
herself about such difficult questions as those of
reconciling the facts of the Universe and the
revelations of Science with the religious ideas in
which Wilfrid Dayrell was so much interested.
With the professor, all such troublesome problems
were calmly relegated to the domain of "the
Unknown and the Unknowable," and her restless
aspiring intellect found a tranquil and soaring satisfaction
in pursuing its discoveries, under the
professor's masterly guidance, among the wonderful

laws and harmonious revelations of Nature. She
didn't admit, even to herself — probably was scarcely
conscious, except once or twice — that she was
pleased to find her father must remain at the seaside,
if only because she would not be brought into
Dayrell's neighbourhood by returning to Hurstleigh
Manor. She knew too well how completely all her
present tranquillity would be overthrown if she
came once more under that young enthusiast's
influence, and the very depth and tenderness of
affection for him which, nursed by Pity, still dwelt
in the recesses of her heart, made her shrink fi'om
the thought of having her whole mind and life
once more thrown into disorder — her soul distracted
alike by the opposing claims of affection for her
father and her lover, and by the conflicting views
of scientific serenity on the one hand, of religious
wrestlings on the other.

How long her lingering romantic affection for
the unfortunate poet at Aldclyffe Priory would
have based the brilliant and hitherto rather
successful philosophers wooing, it is hard to say.
So far as that affection rested upon the intellectual
supremacy of her younger lover, no doubt it had
received a severe shock, not only from his failure
to take the world by storm with his first publications,
but also by the singular force and brilliancy
of his elder rival's sparkling and incisive intellect.
But the "Deus ex machina'' was about to interpose
in this fateful contest, no less decisively than

21—2
OF lOINOK

the Homeric gods when the prize of victory hung
in trembling balance under Ilium's walls. Sir
Michael, seeing the scorn with which his handsome
daughter had long treated any scion of the aristocracy,
even an eldest son, who might approach todo
her homage, (she had actually serious thoughts
of following Mrs. Dayrell's example and dropping her
courtesy title,) and seeing further that she was
evidently as deeply interested in the conversation
as gratified by the attentions of the great scientist,
resolved to bring matters to a favourable termination
before his own frail tenure of life was snapped.
He knew his life was fast nearing its close, and
one morning he called her into his room and told
her so, adding : " I don't like leaving you, my girl,
without such a protector as a worthy husband
would be to you. Can't you make up your mind
to take that eminent professor ' for better, for
worse ' ? He is very much in love with you, and
has spoken to me. It would be a comfort to your
old father, before he goes, to know you were in
such safe keeping, since you seem determined not to
marry into the rank of life in which you were born."

No answer. Possibly Stella longed for an instant
to reply, " I've heard he was married once before.
Perhaps he killed his first wife, papa, and it might
be risky to give him another chance ; " but her old
sauciness cowered before the pallid, shrunken face
gazing on her. So she was silent, and the aged
invalid spoke again.

Come, don't be afraid to speak your mind to
the old man," and tie took her hand kindly.
You have been a good, affectionate daughter,
dear, and I want to see you happily settled in life
before I die. I know you think a deal about intellect,
and brains, and all that sort of thing.
Well, if ever a fellow had a head on his shoulders,
I'm hanged if that scientific gentleman doesn't

mount up aloft What's the matter, dear? I

shan't be with you much longer. Can't you just
whisper a word and say "

Father, father," said Stella, stifling a sob,
"don't talk like that. You are not going away
from me, and I don't want to go — away — from you.
And I know you wouldn't wish me to marry unless
my whole heart went with those awful promises at
the altar."

No, no, my child. I wouldn't have you marry
unless — there, don't cry. I thought you liked and

admired Professor so much that — well, well

we'll leave it. I'm not gone yet."

But ere another morning dawned, a little before
the first faint flush of day, he heard

. . . the angels call his soul,"

and Stella woke to learn he was gone from earth
would never plead with her, speak to her in this
life again. Gone, without one farewell kiss or
word.

At first she felt stunned — couldn't lift up her head
to look Death in the face. Here, to her intense

and, for a few hours, passionate sorrow, she found
herself, for the first time since she lost her mother
when a child, confronted with one of those stern
and solemn facts of existence, perhaps the sternest
and in some aspects the most awful of all those
facts, for which she felt she had no explanation,
no consolation in heaven or on earth.

Once again, also, she found she was utterly alone.
It was a terrible trial, and its influence went far and
wide within the sphere of her whole life and being.

She would see no one except her aunt and cousin,
and them only at meals, while the preparations for
removing her beloved fathers remains to the ancestral
vault of his sires at Hurstleigh Manor were
being pressed forward. She was touched, and yet
irritated and vexed when she heard that Professor

had called and left a message with her aunt

of tender and respectful sympathy ; but she was in
no mood for being either courted or pitied. Her
heart was in the darkened room where all that remained
on earth of the father she had loved so
sincerely lay in funereal gloom. If any ray of comfort
momentarily glanced into her mind, it was when
she dwelt on returning at least for a time to the
home of her childhood, and the neighbourhood of
Aldclyffe Priory, where the happiest hours of her
life had been passed, and where her thoughts had
been lifted above the changes of Time to " things
unseen."

Yet she could not but be conscious that some not

inconsiderable change had passed over her during
the eighteen months she had been absent from her
home — a change she could not understand or explain.
If the truth must be told, it was by no means a
change for the better. She had been surfeited with
admiration, which she had allowed herself to enjoy,
as her pride or self-respect and keen sense of satire
had never before permitted ; for it had been a refuge
from the sad and weary thoughts which beset herat
the bedside of her father, or from the wretchedly
conflicting emotions caused by filial affection for the
invalid constantly with her, and her still existing
romantic attachment to another sufferer far away.
Moreover, she had lost, by leaving her country home
for a season, all the healthy and beneficent influences
of home duties and '* Grood Samaritan " diversions.
She could no longer sally forth among those
whom she had learned to recognize as her " neighbours,"
the labourers' wives and children on her
fathers estate and in the village — no longer come
as she not seldom had done when occasion served,
like a ministering angel to them in their sorrows
and sicknesses, privations and joys, few as these
last might be, yet which would have been fewer still
but for Lady Stella's thoughtful though irregular
sympathy. That sympathy had indeed been somewhat
capriciously and fitfully shown ; yet when the
poor wives and mothers and shame-faced children
no longer heard the rustling of her dainty apparel,
nor saw now and then the kindly, if decidedly haughty,

expression in the "good young lady's" eye — when
there was no compassionate heart at the Manor
House to lighten their sorrows or increase their joys,
or intercede for them in their " troubles," life was
a far heavier burden to the labouring poor in the
Hui'stleigh parish, as well as to the aged vicar, from
whom those poor derived at any time but little
comfort, but who had received much himself from
the Squire's abundant hospitalities.

Thus while there were many adverse influences
now at work to draw the eccentric young lady down
to a lower level of character and conduct, some of
the best and noblest of former days were removed.
Moreover, if the general homage which had fed her
vanity and self-consciousness, and therefore developed
the germs of selfishness, always ready (according to
moral philosophers and general experience, to
spring to life in every human heart), was demoralizing
in one direction, the particular homage of
the great and brilliant scientist was in another
respect far more mischievous. It flattered her vanity
and gratified her pride incomparably more than any
attention she had ever yet received ; while his conversation
cut her more effectually loose from those
loftier realms of thought and aspiration whither Dayrell's
influence had been encouraging her to wander,
than even all the previous influences exerted on her
eager and restless soul. Without any thorough or
systematic education, and being extremely impressionable,
she was naturally more easily wafted

hither and thither by the varying currents of opinion
and emotion which filled the surrounding atmosphere
in which she lived. Hence that keen-sighted,
pert, and satirical little cousin of hers, Miss France*,
one day actually hinted that she might easily have
been (in a former state of existence) that too fascinating
and destructive idol of some exasperated and
despairing lover who, she had been told, erroneously,
once flung himself into the Tyrrhenian Sea, exciting,
*' semper varius et mutable semina I " To
all these deteriorating influences her father's removal
opposed a chastening power.

How had it been going all this time with the
inner life and moral being of the captive knight a^
the Priory ? Well the answer would be much in
accordance with the views of the individual asking-such
an unimportant question. If that individual
regarded all belief in a personal Grod, all trust ina
wise and loving Providence, as weak and foolish,
he would think Dayrell during that last year and a
half, had been going from bad to worse ; for the
young man had actually become increasingly convinced
that not a sparrow dies nor a man is crippled,
nay that not a creature lives or moves, suffers or is
glad, except by the Will or permission, and the constant
Providence of a loving personal God. But that
was not all, perhaps not the worst of, the mischief.
Dayrell, wonderful to say, had been growing
fanatical in his interpretation of the injunction,

Love not the world, neither the things that are
of the world," and growing " morbidly ascetic " they
would have said — some did say, even among his
much-valued and generous Oxford chums. Ellerslie
was accordingly deputed to visit and tone him up
a bit. But before going down to the Priory, having
learned a little about his old friend's love-sorrows
from Ellen Dayrell, he ran down to the fatal
watering-place, learnt all he could from another old
Oxford friend, the incumbent of one of the churches
there, and brought back unsatisfactory news to that
young lady. *' There's no doubt, Miss Dayrell, that
Lady Stella is flirting away at express train speed in
all that heartless and abandoned society," quoth
Fred, as he walked with his fiancee in the Priory
grounds ; " particularly with a certain celebrated Professor.
. I saw her at it with mine own
eyes."

Later in the day, by Mrs. Dayrell's advice, he
gave her son just a slight, very slight, hint as to
what he saw and heard, but soon turned the conversation
to the object of his visit, viz., Wilfrid's asceticism
:

"You are carrying matters to a ridiculous extreme,
my dear fellow. You are not gaining ground
not looking as well as you did" — he remarked,
'•' and we feel our character as well as your recovery
is at stake. We are discredited (or should be if the
facts were known at Oriel) by continuing to be on
intimate terms with you."

Hold hard there ! " cried Dayrell. '' Oriel has
never had greater reason to be proud of any of her
sons than of Newman, Pusey, Harrel Froude, Keble,
Manning, &c. These men, and many of their worthiest
followers, have certainly been men and women
who ' loved not the world ' in the sense the apostle
meant. Neither the world, the flesh, or the devil
have been their masters. I am only determined
they shan't be mine*'

An heroic resolve," remarked Ellerslie, drily.
And of course I think you, as you must think
yourself, rather a fine fellow to be in such company.
Now be 'easy," he continued, as Dayrell raised one
of his crutches menacingly, adding in an undertone,
^ Shouldered his crutch and showed how fields were
won.' Excuse the liberty, but may I speak out like
a free Briton ? Very well, then — look here. Of
course we quite admit you've had an immense deal
to put up with, and have done a rare lot of good
work, and have shown a wonderful lot of pluck.
But if you are looking out for ' counsels of perfection,'
Dayrell, and are going in for genuine saintship,
don't you think there's a better path open to
you than all this ' Love-not-the-world '-and-mortifi-
cation business ? "

And, pray, what is the path your carnal mind
suggests ? "

Why, * sweeping under the door-mat,' which in
your case might be (if I may speak frankly), the
giving up grumbling, and finding fault whenever

there's a cloud over the sun. . I know the
temptation must be terrible under present circumstances,
but then we used to think our beloved old
Growler a little marred by this dismal habit the
otherwise perfect symmetry of his character, even
at Oriel. And hence I opine there must be a deep-rooted
tendency thereto in our poet's nature which
requires sweeping out. . . . We even say that
Byron's influence must have been prejudicial."

"Did our Oriel clique send you here," inquired
Dayrell, calmly, " to offer this valuable suggestion ? "

"No; that would have been cowardly. I devote
myself, med sponte, to the infernal gods. But mind,
I shouldn't have offered said suggestion now, had
you not been going in for growth, spiritual perfection,
and all that kind of thing. And, joking apart,
Dayrell, I do honestly believe you'll get * nearer the
Throne,' as the carries say, by that line than by
all these fads about mortification of the flesh, and
self-denial, as you call it, but which may easily become
' each-other denial ' when combined with
growling and fault-finding and making everybody
round you uncomfortable. Heavens ! what would
the shade of your great ancestor say to you on those
points if he caught you on the ramparts some frosty
night at Elsinore ; I do believe if it hadn't been
for your mother and sisters, or if you had been in
lodgings, you'd have given me this morning only
dry bread and milk-and-water for breakfast ! "

Ha ! ha ! ha ! " exclaimed Dayrell, with such

a laugh as his mother and sisters, in an adjoining
room, hadn't heard from him since Sir Michael
Ronhead left Hurstleigh. Fred Ellerslie, much
delighted, looked on with a mild complacent grin.
But you don't mean, Fred, I have all my life
been given to morbid views of things in general,
and making people uncomfortable ? "

Oh, rather. But take heart. You must be
nearly fit for canonization, when you take my
wormwood and gall so sweetly."

"Yes — I feel the 'aureole' already coming round
my brows," replied his friend. " It is well to be
humble. But then you see I remembered (as weare
on Bible topics) that it would have been
better, once, even for a mighty prophet, if he had
hearkened to an ass."

"But then, you also see, it is proverbially
difficult to have faith in one's near relations,"
cried Ellerslie, chuckling in his turn, as the butler
entered and announced dinner.

The rest of the evening was devoted to general
enjoyment, but the next morning, when the young
men were having a little chat before Fred left, he
said, " I hope you realize the fact that in my
secret soul I admire much of your mortification
theory ? " " Aye, aye," replied Dayrell cheerily, " I
don't think we differ so much about that after all,
and I'll pamper the flesh when needful. But, of
course, those fellows who think that the great
object of life should be to enjoy it, and not trouble

oneself about what one can't see, feel, or taste, will
think all my present views folly, and myself cracked."
Then he couldn't forbear quoting from what Fred
satirically called that " everlasting yea," adding,
I've no doubt you do think me a fool, old fellow,
but Carlyle would tell you, perhaps, that I was
progressing towards ' The golden mountain-tops,
where dwell the Spirits of the Dawn.' Have faith
in Evolution, not merely from apes to man, but
from Man to God. Then you might see in the
change wrought on this crippled youth here — "
(•* Why don't you say * this 'ere crippled youth ' ? "
interjected his friend " in a low tone," as Dayrell
frowningly remarked, but calmly continued :) '* you
would see in his change of mood a sure development
and growth towards the lofty end for which
he was created. Such benighted fanatics, unlike my
frivolous friends, accept the painful discipline, * the
Worship of Sorrow,' to which most people in proportion
to the worth that is in them seem largely
brought, as the necessary process for that evolution
or development ; and consequently ail the enjoyments
the world can offer tend, I suppose, to
become less and less important in their eyes. So
that at last, excuse me for reminding you, innumerable
saints and heroes, the men and women
who have been the salt of the earth, who have
preserved it from utter corruption, who have been
its guiding lights and redeeming powers and purifying
influences, its noblest prophets, deliverers,

martyrs, kings — from Zoroaster, and Socrates, and
Antoninus, to Alfred, St. Louis, St. Francis,
Catherine of Siena. Martin Luther, John Howard,
Mary Carpenter, and Florence Nightingale, seem to
have had the world under their feet''

'' I'm glad you have to take breath," said Ellerslie,
catching the opportunity, *' for I wish to add that
greatly as I admire (at a respectful distance) the
excellent persons to whom you refer, I must say
that they always struck me as rather one-sided — "

One-sided ! " exclaimed Dayrell.

Yes," replied his friend with dogged obstinacy.
*' They seem to me (I don't mean the last two
ladies) to neglect or destroy the beauty and the
gladness, the music and the grace with which this
wonderful world, itself the glorious work of Grod, so
abundantly teems. Confound it, Dayrell ! — (excuse
my strong emotions) — but the Bacchanalian myth
must have had a grand soul of goodness, and
truth, as well as of beauty, enshrined within it, or
jeer Banco ! the shade of your great ancestor lies
howling now in Tartarus I "

Look here, true-hearted champion of Play," rejoined
Dayrell. " That ancestor is where it will be
lucky for you and me if we ever meet him. He's
gone to the happy hunting-grounds, to the asphodel
meadows where cricket is allowed, and to the blue
streams where glorious boating is enjoyed — ' gone
where the good "Bacchanalian" go,' just because he
knew and lived out the truth, that self-denial, self-sacrifice,

living for others rather than self, is not
only the indispensable condition of all true manliness,
and therefore of all divine life in man, but of
all genuine enduring heavenly joy. That is the
lesson miserable sinners like myself have to master,
and which I am trying hard now, though rather late
in the day, to learn — a lesson which saintly souls
like yours have no need to struggle to attain. It
was born with you."

"Ah," replied his friend, "now I'm comforted.
I see by that stinging remark there is quite
enough of the devil — I mean of the old Adam —
still left in you to prevent your soaring too soon
beyond our low reach and company."

"By that cold and mocking smile," began Dayrell,
with outstretched finger, " now I know that
all this while thou art thinking — though too amiable
to say it — that if my illustrious ancestor saw me
lying here, and talking about self-denial and giving
up the world, the flesh, and the devil, he would
laugh one of his merriest laughs, and exclaim,
Truly the grapes are sour.' "

Dear old Dayrell," replied his friend warmly.
*' Whatever I had been thinking, my present conviction
(as it was in Oriel undergraduate days) is
that both you and your illustrious ancestor, whatever
your respective errors and follies, were and are
no end of trumps. I have grace to see that in
this age of luxury and self-indulgence, it is well
there should be those who, whether in health or

sickness, richer or poorer, should resist and protest
against the tyranny of the senses and self-indulgence.
And as it's ' confession day,' I will
admit that much indulgence in, even much enjoyment
of, not merely eating and drinking, but good
music, high art, intellectual delights, &c., &c., doth
undoubtedly tend to foster both sensuality and
selfishness, and all that is vile. Don't I know by
fatal experience, as I needn't tell you, that the
animal man is always waiting to spring on one's
higher nature and drag it down to the devil and
his dam ? So God bless you, old fellow — never say
die. But don't try how long you can live without
eating. Believe, for the sake of your friends, that
a living puppy is better than a dead lion, and that
one living soul at least is, and often has been,
grateful to you for helping him to subdue the old
Serpent and all its brood."

Then the late Oriel Fellow and potential Attorney-general
returned to his chambers in the Temple,
after what he declared had been a delightful visit,
with the belief that he saw a little further himself
into the subject of self-denial than previously,
though of course a little further, also, than his
friend.

Perhaps they might each have agreed, if it had
occurred to either to make the remark, that in this
mortal life, even as none of us can grasp the whole
of a great truth, and that consequently some see
one side thereof and some another, while others see
YOL. II. 22

many sides, but not all — so none, not even the
greatest, can possess those various characteristics
which make the perfect man. The greater, the
nobler the character, the more varied and energetic
will be his qualities, and powers, and the more
obvious his errors and defects. But all beneath
him, down to the hero's valet, can probably discern
his imperfections, while more or less unable to
gauge his lofty and genuine worth.

Be all this as it may, there could be no doubt that
during the two years of trying discipline through
which Wilfrid Dayrell had been passing, he had been
arriving at a perception of the facts of the Universe,
at the relation of the Seen to the Unseen, rather
nearer the truth than that to which he had previously
attained. Heading Lockhart's " Life of Sir Walter Scott "
years before, he had been struck with that fine letter
written by the great Wizard of the North to
Lord Byron, in which he quotes the Oriental legend of
how a mighty Asiatic potentate once sent an embassage
to Solomon, the Hebrew king, to request from the
wisest of men a motto that would be equally applicable
both in prosperity and adversity. The answer returned
by the illustrious king of the Jews, we are told, was the
following :

And this also shall pass away."

Few thoughts had been more comforting to Dayrell in
the earlier days of his great trial than that motto ; so
that, when suffering most, he would occasionally take
out his watch and, noting the rapid revolutions of the

little " second " hand, would say to himself, " This also
is passing away."

But then, in some of those extatic hours, when,
amid all the indescribable joy of returning health
and entire freedom from pain, he was living in an
atmosphere of mutual and absorbing love, the same
words would ever and anon steal into his mind with a
cold chill, as from the charnel-house of Death. And
now, though nearly all the suffering and suspension of
power in his limbs had departed, the rapture and
the answering love had vanished also, and gloomy forebodings
would in spite of all his efforts at resistance,
invade and make desolate his heart.

Thinking, or rather wrestling with all these conflicting
ideas, Dayrell came to the conclusion that
Solomon's motto— profound and all pervading as it
first appears and really is — grew out of, had relation
to, only the present visible world, with its shifting
scenes, and this mortal life, with all its varying
change. And thenceforward he was eagerly striving,
longing with anxious ardent desire, to learn whether
there was not some description of life that was permanent
— not constantly shifting, changing, passing away.
He began to feel more and more sure, the more
earnestly he sought for what was unchanging, that
there were realities behind the visible phenomena of
earth and earthly existence which human souls were
meant to discover — in which they were ordained, some
day, to live. His mother, kindly ministering to tendencies
in her boy which she respected, although she

99 9

could not sympathize with them, brought him once, on
her return from London, a beautiful collection of
hymns,* which he read day by day, during these
earnest seeking for light, with increasing admiration
and love. Among others, he was particularly
struck with a well-known hymn by Henry
Francis Late, beginning,

"Abide-with me I fast falls the even-tide :
The darkness deepens, Lord, "vrith me abide,"

and in the course of which he found the following
verse :

Swift to its close ebbs out life's little day ;
Earth's joys grow dim ; its glories pass away ;
Change and decay in all around I see :
Oh, Thou who changes not, abide with me."

That reminded him of one of Mr. Charles Dayrell's
favourite hymns by Cowper, in which there is the
following verse :

Oh, let me then at length be taught
The truth which I am slow to learn,
That God is Love and changes not,
Nor knows the shadow of a turn."

The writer of his grandfather's memoir shad once told
him, when he came down to the Priory to see him in
his trouble, that those words had struck Mr. Dayrell
with such intense force because he happened to meet
with them just when he was writhing under the
misery of Miss Beechwood's change of purpose. He
told his friend the clergyman that he thought nothing
had ever realized to him more strongly the infinite

" Hymns of Praise and Prayer." Longmans.

love of Grod than those few words. And Dayrell the
younger now understood why.

Soon after this he came upon words in the New
Testament which he felt, if he could only grasp their
full meaning, might answer all his prayers and satisfy
the desires of his heart." They occur at the commencement
of Christ's last prayer with his disciples :
And this is Life Eternal, to know Thee, the only
True God, and Jesus Christ whom Thou hast sent."

He had heard from Dr. Elvers some description of
the new and grander meaning which was beginning to
be put, in the best circles of religious thought, by the
Rev. F. D. Maurice and other devout and learned menon
the word *' Eternal," and he asked himself if there
were not some connection between that meaning and
the longing thirst which consumed him, for some
more abiding rest and changeless love than he had yet
found. Looking further in the Gospels, and coming
upon the following words, he pondered over them long
and deeply :

"Whosoever trinkets of the water that I will
give him shall never thirst ; but the water that I
will give him shall be in him a well of water
springing up into eternal life."

What was this water that, if he asked and was
willing to receive, Christ said he was able to give
him ?

Strange and far-off glimpses of a grander world
than he had ever yet beheld, seemed to be opening
up before him. Visions of celestial messengers

appeared to descend on him from the starry heavens
in the serene silence of the night. Angel forms
beckoned him. A stern and lofty spirit seemed to
be leading him, ever and anon, beyond the realms
of earthly and ignoble existence ! — stern yet gentle
lofty and yet full of tenderness and compassion.

And then with all these strange experiences,"
as he wrote in his diary, "there came deep searchings
of heart — secret solitary communing with the
Unseen Grod — a resolute though too often intermittent
effort to learn the Eternal Truth, to grasp
it and live by it, for evermore. Again and again I
seemed baffled — sometimes was almost in despair. But
the saying of a great writer was often before me,
that * A good in proportion to its grandeur is encompassed
with difficulties,' and I kept on striving
and praying. . . At length an answer came. I
found in our library a copy of the * De Imitation '
and of George Fox's * Journal.' Both these books
poured a flood of light on the subject that was
harassing me.

I settled that this ' water of life ' must be
Christ's spirit of love, of self-sacrifice, and self-surrender
to God — that only by receiving, cherishing,
unfolding that spirit in my own heart and life could I
rise above all the chances and changes, all the turmoil
and harrowing disappointments, all the fears
and temptations and miserable unrest of this changing
troublous world." That, also, he saw, agreed
strictly with what he had been quoting to his

Oxford friend during this last visit, in reference to
Bacchanalian joy.

But what can I do' he goes on to say, " under
present circumstances to * deny myself and take up
my cross, and follow ' Christ ? Not much, I know too
well ; but I am gaining strength every day, and
might before another year is out, be able once more
to take my part in the work and conflicts of the
world, and strike home for the kingdom of God on
earth, as I have never yet been able to do — never
yet dreamed of doing. In the meantime I can
keep the old Adam in subjection and sweeten my
temper, and do everything in one's power, however
little that may bo, to brighten and ennoble
the family life, and to bring happiness to my
mother and sisters. Especially," thought he,
there's that confounded egotism and that detestable
habit of grumbling and fault-finding which it hurt
me plaguily at the time to be told of — they must
be got rid of. All this is work which perhaps, after
all, I can do better lying here wounded and helpless,
than if I were immersed once more in a sea of
active occupations, and pleasures. I can think a
little now about disagreeable truths and duties
which I could shove away from me easily in a
healthy vigorous state of physical foolery. . . .

So do the duty that lies nearest thee, old boy —
and don't growl. Aye, aye, * Sweep under the doormats
I ' That girl was right. It wasn't a bad test
of the reality of conversion and I'll just try it on.

But oh the pity of it — the pity it is so hard a
task. . . Lord, Thou knowest how very hard it is
. but what was it that true servant of the Lord
said ? " Dayrell took from his desk a letter he had
lately received from Dr. Eivers in reply to one of
sorrowful confession which he had written to him,
and read the following passage more than once :
You speak forcibly of the many faults you begin
to be conscious of, and of the weary almost hopeless
task it seems trying to overcome them. Yes, —
what sincere Christian cannot sympathize with you ?
But remember it is only in the strength of a great
enthusiasm, of great and continued efforts for the
welfare of others and the love of Grod, only in enduring
self-sacrifice for their good, only in the
strength of Christ, that you can overcome these
faults and infirmities. Do you never hear the
Master saying to you —

' AVell I know thy trouble,

Oh, my servant true.
Thou art very weary —

I was weary too.
But thy toil shall make thee,

One day, all mine own,
And the end of suffering

Will be near the Throne.' "

These words seemed to bring great comfort to the
penitent man. And then he reflected "that friends
have come, and will come again, on whom I may
perhaps bring a little of the blessings which have
descended on my own head as the fruits of ' conversion.'

Only fancy my using complacently such
phrases as these. Yet *the proof of the pudding,
&c.' " But extending far above and beyond all these
wise and virtuous considerations, there seemed, judging
by his journal, to be rising continually before
Dayrell's mind one thought. Would she, who was
still "the ocean to the river of his thoughts" ever
come back to him, to be once more the Empress of
his heart and life ? to care for him as once she did
with sweet and tender affection, to receive from him
the best and highest thought, the deepest purest
love, which he could give ? How if, during the
long severance that had occurred between them, she
had yielded to that dominant deadly law of change,
like so many mortals who have not yet attained to
the divine unchanging love, the life Eternal ? or —
what if she came back with love for him unchanged,
but with her heart more than ever alienated from
all that was now to him dearer than life itself,
more sacred than even the fondest earthly attachment
?

Why, then, in either case," he wrote in an
hour of lofty fervour, " I shall have my opportunity
Grot-given, divinely consecrated. Then and there
will be offered to me my cross, and it will rest with me
to choose whether to take or reject it."

Dayrell well knew that hard as would be the
duty of resigning his dearest hopes, his long-cherished
love for Lady Stella, in humble submission
to his Heavenly Father, if called on to do soin

consequence of his beloved proving faithless to
her lover, it would not be comparable to the trial
of finding her true to him, but false to her higher
nature and nobler destiny — loving him, but more
than ever alienated from Him who he began to
feel sure must be the Source and Inspirer of all
true love, the Giver of all abiding, blessed, and
eternal life. There might then be offered him a
cross to bear, the agony of which was too awful for
him to contemplate. To live out his mortal life in
daily converse with one who could never share his
deepest holiest aspirations and desires, whose daily
influence would necessarily, even if unconsciously,
be exerted to lessen his own loyalty to his Master
and his Grod — to weaken his hold on 'things unseen
" and to bind him in increasing ignoble slavery
to the world of sense and self over which he knew
too well how hard it was, even at the best, to
triumph — here was a prospect before which a sensitive,
loving, and aspiring nature, like Dayrell's,
might well stand appalled.

Then a soft mocking spirit whispered —
On the other hand, suppose that you, yourself, are
the weak victim of a poor delusion — and that you
are fast drifting towards the sacrifice of all that is real
and true, all that is really worth doing and being,
to a childish or insane delusion begotten of morbid
and sickly dreams, nourished by cowardly or self-seeking
priests. Trust no visions or dreams. Trust
only to what you know to be real — the evidence of

your senses, and the reasoning they supply." As
to which of those two voices proceeded from " a
lying spirit " and which from One who was Faithful
and True, may be matter of opinion ; but there
can be no doubt as to which had lately prevailed
in the mind of the heiress of Hurstleigh Manor,
even if the other in the meantime had more weight
with her lover.

The Lady Stella, by " the sea-beat shore " and in
gay assemblies, had heard some confused appeals,
whether of a higher or a lower order — but this latter
voice undoubtedly was that which for some months
past, she had been hearing more distinctly and had
been listening to with far greater cordiality than
any other.

Did the shock and grief of her father's death
materially affect the ultimate issue ?

■^^■^

Lady Stella P^aulconhurst, accompanied by her aunt
and cousin, left the pretty seaside watering place en
route for Hurstleigh with heart and mind in as
stormy and troubled a state as the tempestuous, turbid
sea which amid rain and wind was then dashing on
its '* yellow sands." During her stay by its changing
surface she had gained much clearer insight, as she
thought, under the guidance of the Professor, into
some of the questions that had troubled her — especially
that concerning the existence of a Creator. She
had learned that it was permissible, perhaps indeed
inevitable, to believe that there must be a Will, a
Cause of some sort, behind all phenomena, but she
had also been privileged to see, by his assistance,
that it was impossible for us to know anything further
respecting it ; and foolish in the extreme to think of
it as a personal Being. She was to think of it as a
Will, a Cause, " of the nature of which we have no
revelation except what may be contained in these
phenomena themselves viewed in their entirety . . ."
but from which we can certainly gain no conception
of a Divine Being such as Theists, Jews and Christians
have imagined.

Now in this conclusion she could have calmly and

comfortably rested so long as life moved pleasantly
forward, and the Professors attention, converse, and
general brilliancy, satisfied her mind or occupied her
thoughts, had it not been for those wild passionate
memories of a certain disabled but fire-eyed student,
poet, devotee, which would occasionally, yet fiercely and
tumultuously, rush in upon her soul. And now there
had stalked athwart her path this terrible spectre.
Death, and her life seemed shaken to its centre, until
she, too, in the long watches of the night had begun
to sigh for the calm still quiet of Hurstleigh Manor,
or perhaps of annihilation and the grave.

Yet when some hours later, she had left the storm
far behind, and was driving from the station at Hurstleigh,
through the sweet, rural, well-remembered
scenes, where the cattle were grazing tranquilly in
the light of the setting sun, and again as they drove
through the dear old park where the long summer
evening shadows lay so peacefully on the green turf,
and everything spoke of rest, and home, a softer,
sweeter, and happier spirit stole into the troubled
orphan's heart. Again and again in the course of
that evening there came a rush of happiness at the
thought of being able once again to cheer and nurse,
and talk with that suffering mortal at Aldclyffe
Priory who had opened up to her in bygone days
new and beautiful worlds of thought and feeling,
which by a natural reaction now seemed to her like
a haven of Paradisiacal peace. She could not but be
conscious that even amid — perhaps especially because

of — the great sorrow of her father's death, that
thought gave her incomparably more happiness than
she had enjoyed in the bright sunshine, or cold sparkling
vivacity of Professor 's society, or all the

gaiety of the place she had just left. In such
moments, also, it was an immense comfort to poor
Stella to remember that her fathers last words to
her were, practically, an acquiescence in her marrying
only where her heart was given, so that she could
always turn to him in loving memory with all her
old filial affection. True — at times, during the
journey home, and in the evening hours, the recollection
of young Dayrell's firm persistent advocacy of
certain objectionable theological doctrines was painful
clashing as they did with her deep-rooted convictions,
and with all the far-seeing wisdom to which
she had recently been listening. But then what did
these, or any differences of mere opinion and temper
matter? All her hard thoughts of Dayrell while
away from him, all she had disliked when with him,
faded away now that once again she was near him.
Would she not be able to bring him books, papers,
and drawings as in the olden days ? Would she not
again sit beside him, draw forth his noble soaring
imagination and piercing thoughts and poetic fancies
inspire him to compose what would conquer even
the hard hearts of reviewers — works which " the world
would not willingly let die " ? Could she not once
again converse with him about Byron, Wordsworth,
Goethe, Cervantes, Carlyle, Emerson ? Would she

not again revel in intellectual combat, in playful
cut-and-thrust, with him ? And when he was sad
and weary would she not play to him, sing to him
bring back to him sunshine and gladness ?

Perhaps he was a religious, blindfolded bigot — one
of those deluded fanatics at whom the Professor had
repeatedly and so wittily sneered. Ah, but then
Death was in the world, and bitter grief and disappointment,
pain and anguish How if
Dayrell, after all, she thought, has the truer key to
the Universe ? And thus peace came to her that
evening, when resting once more in the home of
her childhood, and she rose next day comparatively
calm and strong for the trying scenes through which
she next had to pass.

The cathedral choir had come over from the county
town to take part in the solemn service for the dead,
in accordance, Stella's aunt told her, with a wish her
whither had once expressed (though in reality it was
little more than a cordial consent to what he saw
his sister desired). The venerable and stately parish
church, with its " storied windows richly dight," had
been hung with the old knightly banners belonging
to many generations of the deceased baronet's family,
bound each to each " in historic links of illustrious
memory. The long procession was rendered grand
and impressive by all that funereal pomp and pageantry,
combined with the private carriages of half the
county side, could do to show respect and honour
to the dead ; for Stella yielded implicitly to all her

aunt's suggestions in this direction whatever her own
taste might have preferred. No wonder if amid the
solemn organ peals, in that grandest of funeral strains,
the Dead March in " Saul," the exquisite voices of
the choir, and the touching burial service of the
English Church, with the sacred building crowded
by a hushed and reverent multitude — her dead father's
remains being the centre round which all this pathetic
and stately ceremonial was gathered — the Lady Stella
felt raised into a loftier realm of thought and feeling
than — except once or twice when listening to Wilfrid
Dayrell's converse and looking up to star-lit skies —
she had ever known before.

But — just as the service inside the church was
concluded, and the long cortege, headed by the officiating
clergymen, was about to pass into the churchyard
— suddenly she caught sight among the crowd
of a pale countenance, framed in its dark hair, with
thoughtful earnest eyes, gazing intently on her. Her
first feeling was one of deep gratitude for the reverent
loving sympathy thus shown — shown, she feared, at
much cost and suffering. For how could Mr. Wilfrid
Dayrell have come into that crowd ? He must have
been carried. Then, as she looked at him again,
all the surrounding scene melted away, and the sight
of that dear scarred face raised an almost uncontrollable
longing to steal to his side and thank him
warmly, and lay her head on his shoulder and cry
as she had done in the days of childhood on her
mother's bosom.

Recovering herself with an inward fierce and
indignant rebuke at her own weak folly, yet looking
round as she left the church, she saw to her surprise
that the young man moved with the stream,
and passed on in the procession following her,
towards the family vault. He moved, it was
evident, somewhat feebly, and only with the help of
a friend's arm and a stick. But clearly he was no
longer the helpless cripple she had once loved and
waited on, and idolized in his helplessness and pain.
Strange to say, the discovery of his changed position
came on her with a painful shock. For a moment
she was distressingly agitated in a way which she
could not in the least comprehend. But it was no
time for such troubles as these. Swiftly all other
thoughts and feelings were swept from her mind as
she approached the opened ancestral vault, saw the
dark pall cast aside from the great coffin which
enclosed the mortal remains of her beloved father,
and as the body was lowered into the vault beheld
the last tie slowly broken that had still seemed
to unite him to herself. Then all the dear
memories which had clustered round him from
childhood came rushing over her, like visions of the
past in the mind of a drowning man, and her grief
for a moment had its way.

When the burial service closed and the procession
returned, the cathedral choir once more raised their
VOL. IL 23

voices in a magnificent chaunt ; the chief mourners
entered their carriage and all was over.

That afternoon and evening found Lady Stella ina
very different state of mind from the sweet peacefulness
she had enjoyed the evening before. For
several succeeding days she was painfully restless ;
and though she strove to appear composed before her
aunt and cousin, her inward suffering was only too
manifest. All that their affectionate attention could
do to soothe the poor girl's trouble was done, but
the elder lady, at all events, knew that there was
deeper trouble of some kind agitating her niece's
breast than simply sorrow for the loss of a beloved
and aged parent. And it was not long before
Frances was made aware of the fact also.

One evening, a few days after the funeral, Stella,
feeling sad and weary, had retired early, and now
lay reclining listlessly on a sofa in her own room,
looking out by moonlight on the old park and the
sheet of water in the distance. She was thinking
perhaps of the happy hours she had spent there in
childhood, or later in life, and in looking on the
same scenes, or on those at Aldclyffe Priory, while
listening to her stricken lover's singularly musical
voice and fascinating conversation. Then his image
rose before her as she had last seen him. She did
not mind the scar on his face; but magnifying the
difficulty he evidently experienced in walking by
his friend's side, she dwelt with morbidly painful
emphasis on all her father's warnings and antipathy

to the idea of any union between that young man
and herself. For an instant her thoughts then
dashed a\yay to Alpine heights, up which she saw,
as in a vision, the brilliant companion of her seaside
rambles, climbing with elastic step and
bounding spirits, just as she had heard him describe
his adventures in those glorious scenes.

Her favourite maid, a little later, wishing to cheer
up her young mistress, had been retailing some of
the village gossip that evening, while brushing her
lady's hair ; and among other changes that had
taken place during their absence, mentioned the
surprising recovery of the heir-presumptive to Ald-
clyffe Priory. " Why, they say, ma'am," remarked
the girl, " that he can walk and ride now ; though
it was thought, when we left the Manor, he'd never
be able to go about again except in his wheel-chair.
But then what is it, after all ? I saw him
at the funeral with his mother and sisters, and it
seemed to me a poor kind of walking — I beg your
ladyship's pardon ; did I ? "

*' Yes, you did, Turner. You "inst be more careful
with that comb. There, there, that will do.
Leave the rest, I can manage. I have a bit of a
headache. Good night."

Tender-hearted Cousin Frances could not see the
Lady Stella in such trouble without longing to
comfort her, nor without feeling some remorse.
For during the long separation that had taken
place between her cousin and Mr. Dayrell,

his sister Ellen had several times written to her
with messages to Stella, and a few lines composed
according to the best of her ability in such a way
as to keep alive a tender sentiment in the heart
of the Star-Queen towards her own unfortunate
brother. Mrs. Grrey objected to this correspondence,
but did not forbid, and sisterly sympathy would
not allow Ellen Dayrell to let month after month
pass without trying to show Lady Stella how ardently
her brother, as she could see only too plainly,
clung to the hope of some day asking her to be his
wife. These notes were duly yet chillingly answered,
but the messages were not given. For Frances could
never make up her mind till lately that it was
right to let her cousin know anything about her
lover ; latterly, indeed. Miss Dayrell had given up
writing, while her brother had almost given up
hope.

Hence on the night just mentioned, Frances in
somewhat remorseful mood, peeped into her cousin's
room before retiring to rest. She had divined with
quick sympathy the cause of Stella's momentary
agitation at the funeral. And having narrowly
watched, with no little interest, the courting and
flirting which had gone on between her cousin and
the great scientist at the sea-side, her eyes were
opened at length to understand the conflict now
raging between the attachment, or rather the
infatuation, as she had formerly regarded it, which
she and her mother had so strongly opposed, and

the growing interest that cousin had evidently
been feeling in the more recent, and, as Frances
thought, a far more captivating, wooer.

For the first time in her life since childhood
Stella found the barriers of her pride give way
under the trying wretchedness of the hour, and
the two girls cried in each other's arms, as once
when they had found themselves together alone,
years before, after arriving at the grand boarding-school
which (to them like a penal settlement)
was to be their brief abode.

I loved him, Frances, you know I loved him,"
said Stella as soon as she could stifle her sobs,
"and I felt I could devote my whole life to him,
maimed and suffering as he was. His words and
thoughts all raised me above myself, and made
me often feel it would be only too great a privilege
to be always and for ever his ministering
angel, as he used to call me " (and a momentary
gleam came through her long wet eye-lashes and
and a faint smile of remembered happiness was
on her lips). "But then, you know, he distressed
me with the vehemence with which he urged me
to see things, and believe things just as he did —
and then my dear, dear father — " Her voice broke
down for a moment ; presently recovering, she
continued, " But indeed, indeed, I have never
known such happiness anywhere or at any time
as I have known in Wilfrid Dayrell's company*
in being of use to him— and I came back here

thinking I might now once more be his ministering
— not angel, I am not worthy to be even
his friend, but his lowly, loving Sister of Mercy —
if only he wouldn't be too bigoted and positive —
. . . And now — all that dream is at an end
and — and — I know not how to look on him — how
to meet him. . . . He needs no lowly service
from me. . . ."

But dearest coz — don't cry — " said sympathetic
Frances trying to calm the passionate grief which
was the more violent for the hard constraint which
during many days she had placed on her feelings,
"don't, dearest. Remember, though Mr. Dayrell is
very much in earnest in his religious views, and
perhaps urges them too much, you know you
have not found any real satisfaction or comfort
in disbelieving them, or in. the mere scientific
notions you get from — "

"No — no, Frances — it is not so. I have found
great joy," interrupted Stella, " from looking at
Nature in those grand scientific lights — and I
could be very happy without anything more, if
only — Trouble — and Pain — and Sickness, and Death
would but let us alone — "

And our tempers — and sins, and selfishness,"
added Frances softly.

Oh, Frances, when we are happy we are good !
I feel then able to love everybody, and help, and
bless them. . . ."

You told me once," said Frances sadly, " Mr.

Dayrell had spoken so truly and powerfully about
the tendency of enjoyment to make us selfish. . .
But never mind dearest. Don't be down-hearted.
That young gentleman, I am sure, is still worthy
of your interest in him — of your admiration. He
is still the same poetic daring genius that he
ever was. His poems, his play, all he has ever
written, thought, or said as a literary man and
which you and many others knew and felt to be
so beautiful, are as full of beauty and power now
as when he used to talk to you about them and
read you what he had written — and he has done
far more since you parted from him, in spite of
what some of those stupid critics said — "

"Yes, yes, my darling," replied Stella, deeply
touched by her cousin's affection, and kissing her
as she dried her eyes and raised her head. " Yet
the old song is true —

' The lark may sing sweetly when soaring above —

But the bird that we nurse is the bird that we love.' "

Frances gazed wistfully in her cousin's face,
feeling truly that she could not fathom all the
strange mystic depths of that wild troubled heart,
and that she had nearly exhausted her own little
store of consolation. But she just murmured one
last word, as she gave a good-night kiss and
whispered :

But should you not rejoice that he is now
regaining his old health and strength, and becoming
able to play his part once more in the

busy world? Would not all your dear father's

opposition be removed ? " " could lie see him

now" she was going to add, but a cold chill seemed
to check her words as she remembered Wilfrid's
feeble step, and both knew that each other felt
there was " a skeleton in the closet " still.

It may seem a little strange that Frances should
have so completely changed the view she had
formerly taken of the attachment between Stella
and young Mr. Dayrell. But it did not seem
strange to her cousin, for she saw and understood
all the deep womanly tenderness which her great
trouble had awakened in Frances' heart. The fact
is that that worldly-minded flighty young ladylike
many another girl (vide, the good effect of
marriage) was quite capable of better things when
really touched; and she had now become convinced
not only that Stella was far more deeply
in love with Wilfrid Dayrell than she ever had
been or was likely to be with anybody else, but
that there was now no sufficient cause why, by
and bye, " they should not be joined in holy matrimony,"
if he continued to increase in health and
strength as he had been doing. At least she felt
nearly certain that she was convinced of these two
facts, and was almost unconscious even of a slight
desire to be convinced. But motives are often rather
mixed in human hearts, and there may have been a
secret, though unconscious, feeling in Frances'
heart that if her cousin could not accept Professor

, — Well, he certainly had shown herself
a good deal of attention, especially when, as
she thought, Stella had sometimes rather heartlessly
rebuffed him. But if such an idea ever crossed her
mind, it was indignantly flung aside lest even
in thought she should be wronging her friend.
Perhaps, however, it helped Frances now to
trample down any tempting recollections of the
Professor's attentions, to reflect that he would certainly
never go to church with his wife, whoever
she might be ; nor take any interest in religious
subjects or controversies ; nor (worst of all), would
he like seeing clergymen at his house unless it
might be, just now and then, a scientific Dean.
But then after all, she, i.e., the imaginary wife,
could of comes go to church herself at least once a
week and probably once a month to early Communion,
and that was the only thing that much mattered.
At all events it really seemed as if her cousin
might now gladden her first true love, and thereby
perhaps save him from misery and despair. And if
she did — well, who knows but what. . . .

One thing, however, which Frances could not altogether
understand then, was made clearer to her by
her mother later on, viz., why Mr. Dayrell's partial
and indeed considerable restoration to health should
seem to chill, in some degree, Lady Stella's devoted
regard for him. " Ah," said that sagacious parent,
one night, when gently pining over her daughter,
whose head rested on her lap, " you see, my dear

your cousin is naturally of a very proud disposition.
Now a proud, refined, high-spirited young woman
necessarily, I believe, feels some humiliation in
the thought of foregoing her independent position
and freedom generally, and becoming, so to say, a
mere satellite to her husband. Marriage, remember,
does not invariably appear highly attractive to a
woman of that character. Only a very deep and
devoted love can make it so. She may be willing
to marry from various reasons, but I am speaking
of that entire surrender of herself which alone
constitutes a true marriage of heart and soul."
I understand, mamma. Pray go on."
"Well, if a woman of this character does so surrender
herself and her freedom, it must be to a
man whom she not only loves devotedly, but whom
she recognizes as her superior, — or to whom she
believes she can render great and lifelong service.
Both these motives affected your cousin. While
young Mr. Dayrell lay wounded and crippled in his
home. Lady Stella found that her society and conversation,
her nursing, and at last her love were a
singular blessing to him, and under God, seemed a
means of restoring him to health ; but when she
saw him so wonderfully recovered that he was independent
of her ministrations, all her relations to
him felt suddenly changed — and you, my dear
child, by your sympathy in her grief, have seen
and felt the sorrowful consequences."

But, mother dear, surely on the other ground

you mention, his great intellectual superiority, she
might be very happy with him. You and she have
told me how she values, adores, intellectual power."

Ah, my child, that is true — but it is a very
different thing when a wife feels that she can
render inestimable services to the husband who is
greatly her superior, and when she can be but of
comparatively little use to him — has, in fact only to
admire him in a humble up-looking attitude and
render him merely lowly, insignificant, unobserved
offices of affection, however useful or indispensable
they may be."

Well, mamma, I'm glad I've nothing to make
me particularly proud, though I've a heap of other
faults. But is not pride a vice ? Yet people often
seem proud of being proud. Is not this rather
curious and unchristian ? For they are not generally
proud of other vices — of drunkenness, dishonesty,
lying. How is it ? "

I suppose, my dear, they confound it with self-respect.
But that is a mistake. For I am inclined to
think Pride is a vice. We find it once mentioned
in the New Testament, and then it is in shocking
bad company."

At the earliest time consistent with social etiquette
Mrs. Dayrell with one of her daughters and her son
made a call at the Manor — and once more Lady
Stella and Wilfrid Dayrell met, face to face, after
an interval of nearly two years. Had they then
met alone, with no eyes watching them either
curiously or sympathetically, and had Dayrell then
drawn her to him and asked her to be his own,
*for better for worse," for time and beyond it—
who knows what might have happened ? When
she first saw him enter the room it was the same
as when she had first caught sight of the beloved
face among the crowd in the church, and all the
deep love she had certainly once felt for him came
over her again like the freshet of a flood. It was
the same thought in both their hearts, swelling with
painful intensity, " Oh, that all these outward surroundings
and spectators would but for an hour
vanish utterly away, and leave us two alone on earth
together. . . . ! " But Stella forgot that her
lover had no such reason to believe in her continued
attachment to him as she had in his
love for her, while her conscience told her he
might have strong reasons for a contrary belief —

as, of course, from Ellerslie's report he thought he
had.

Mournfully, again and again, that afternoon and
far into the night those words would keep ringing
through her brain, about the lark singing —

. . . . sweetly when soaring above, —

But the bird that we nurse is the bird that we love."

For she knew that she could have loved him as
deeply, though he might no longer need her nursing
— aye, tenfold as much, if he were soaring above,
in all the glorious vigour of youth and health and
intellectual power, if only he stooped ever and anon
from his lofty flights to clasp her to his heart. But
now that she seemed to have lost her wounded and
beloved bird in its weakness and suffering, yet not
to have won the soaring song-bird in the skies, her
spirit sank within her, and when her visitors left
she went to her room, and lay there desolate.

She had, however, one, and that no slight, consolation
to a heart as warm as hers. Since the
night when she and her cousin had flung do\vn the
barriers of misunderstanding and alienation, their
early attachment had grown again in its youthful
warmth and freshness ; so that Frances was now able
not only to cheer her cousin with affectionate sympathy,
but by degrees to relate something, though
not all, concerning the correspondence she had had
with Miss Dayrell while they were at the sea. Thus
she could explain ^Yilfrid Dayrell's shy and uncertain
attitude when they met during that afternoon call.

Remember also, dear Stella," said her cousin,
"how impossible it would be for him without some
encouragement from you, and those whom you love,
to forget that with all his gifts and graces, he might
be doing you grievous wrong if he prevented you, the
heiress of Hurstleigh Manor, from forming a grand
match with some wealthy and noble eldest son.
Now be quiet and meek."

I am, dear — I am indeed," replied Stella, relapsing
into the rather desponding attitude from
which her cousin's words had momentarily roused
her. " I think you were very wrong not to give me
one at least of Ellen Dayrell's messages. But I
forgive you, I can see all the painful difficulties ot
your position as well as of his — and — and — I feel the
misery of my own."

"But, dear Stella, you need not remain in this
quandary. Why may I not, in a very dainty, delicate
fashion, let Ellen Dayrell have a hint concerning
the real condition of affairs on this side the
dividing line ? "

No, no," explained Stella impetuously. " Not
for the world ! I positively forbid your doing anything
— though I know it is all your goodness and
love for me that makes you speak of it. Don't be
vexed with me, dear — but things must now take
their own course. I'm not going from home at
present — nor I believe is he. We shall meet in a
simple natural way. We shall perhaps converse together
on interesting topics just as we used to do

and then may be, if — if — it's best for both of
us "

She brightened up a little, gave her cousin a
hearty embrace and left the room.

"Just as we used to do'' How often we fancy
things can be again just as they used to be, and
try to enjoy over again the happiness of bygone
days — until at length we learn to say in the later
years :

Swift to its close ebbs out life's little day,
Earth's joys grow dim, its glories pass away,"

and then sing mournfully, or morbidly, when we find
we cannot recall the past :

*' Change and decay in all around I see '' —

but will not, or cannot let ourselves be " saved by
Hope."

Lady Stella had not yet learned the predominance
of this mighty law of change, or the power of the
Unchanging One. K it was her pride-that first
false passion of her breast," which impelled her thus
peremptorily to refuse her cousin's offer, she reaped
the bitter fruit of an evil seed. If it was only
due womanly self-respect, then she had the consolation
in after days of an approving conscience. But
certainly if it was desirable that she and young
Dayrell should understand each other's feelings and
come together in lifelong mutual affection, the
course she suggested was about the worst that could
be taken. It is not bv intellectual discussions, especially

when the deepest feelings of the soul are
enlisted on one side or the other of the controversy,
that human beings are knit together in true abiding
unity. The head divides — the heart unites. All
the strife of schools and sects — however irresistible
the arguments, powerful the illustrations, masterly
the arrangement, of the campaign on both or either
side — will rarely convert opponents, or build up an
abiding union of political party, of social movements,
of conjugal attachments, or religious societies. The
Intellect has, indeed, to discover and present the true
grounds of that abiding union or unity; and this
is a process which in most cases requires discussion,
perhaps controversy, as well as solitary thought.
When intellectual agreement is thereby attained, of
course the bonds of moral unity and harmony are
proportionately strengthened. But the process of
arriving at such agreement is less conducive to
union and harmony than the result. Real unity,
a true union of soul with soul, can be secured
only where something warmer and deeper than mere
intellect, nobler and loftier than the strife of argument,
has drawn forth the spiritual and emotional
qualities of kindred natures and bound them together
in bonds of enduring friendship, esteem, and love.

Several meetings between the dwellers at Hurstleigh
Manor and Aldclyffe Priory did take place,
in due course, and the lady and her lover were
allowed, by judicious friends, various opportunities
of confidential chat. But the conditions under which

they met were not favourable for a mutual understanding
of each other's position, still less for anything
like mutual agreement in each other's views.
During the interval of separation, owing to the
causes already adverted to, both their views of life
and of the universe at large, as well as their respective
characters, had been considerably diverging ; so
that while Lady Stella had been growing more
handsome and fascinating, as well as more worldly,
and more confirmed in disbelief of the ordinary
fundamental doctrines of religion, Dayrell had become
less interesting to her, and therefore less
lovable. That resolute young gentleman, on the
other hand, as we have seen, had become more
than ever convinced, through his own practical experience
(as he affirmed), of the reality of the
inward blessings which he was sure he had attained.
Then like most enthusiastic converts, he exaggerated
the proportions of the new world of faith
and feeling into which he had entered. He could
not, indeed, be too grateful, or too deeply in earnest,
for achieving that entrance, if he were not a mere
self-deluded fanatic ; and he could hardly be deluded
regarding all that he had seen, felt, realized, during
long months of pain, weariness, and gradual convalescence.
But he would have been a man of very
much slower temperament, or more than human, in
those early days of intense gladness and spiritual
insight, of conscious deliverance from slavery and
entrance into " the glorious liberty " of the sons of
VOL. II, 24

God — had he not been somewhat one-sided in his
advocacy, bigoted in his hostilities, unjust in his
judgments, and intolerant in his feelings. The case
was bad enough before in Stella's eyes. But that,
to all his previous objectionable speculations and
dreams, he should not only have increased in
bigotry and obstinate conviction, but also have added
this most provoking delusion about self-mortification
and " Love not the world " — was it not enough to
irritate a saint ? an appellation, however, to which,
with all her attractive or repellent qualities, the Lady
Stella was hardly entitled. And if even Dayrell's
mother, sisters, and friends regarded him as a fanatical
ascetic and deluded devotee, what wonder if the fair
owner of Hurst leigh Manor had a difficulty in resisting
the same impression.

She, poor girl, was, indeed, not a little to be
pitied. Already she had begun to find life at the
Manor rather dull after all the excitement and
flirtations of the sea-side, and without her beloved
father to accompany her in a dashing gallop. She
could not help sometimes missing and even
lamenting the loss of Professor 's lively converse
and gallant attentions. Wilfrid Dayrell, withall
his burning enthusiasm and flashes of genius,
was now become a grave, and in his present mood
almost a gloomy, lover, at least compared with the
brilliant savant. And yet she did not greatly want
to return to the kind of life she had left. She
knew well it did not satisfy either her affections,

her intellectual, or her spiritual nature. If she
could have yielded to some of her old cravings for
Dayrell's love, to her longing (amid all the tossing
to and fro of ever-changing views and tempestuous
desires) for rest and comfort, she knew and felt
again and again that she should find all she
needed, for a time at least, in his ardent and
yet sheltering affection. But as often as she felt
impelled to confess to him that he was still dearer
to her than all the world beside, as much as on
that night when in the twilight he overheard
her confession, there rose up in her path not
merely an instinct of maidenly reserve, not merely
that dominant, long nurtured and unfeminine pride,
but a combative defiant sarcastic spirit of resistance
to his religious convictions and arguments, to his
exaggerated asceticism and visionary enthusiasm.
Even if at times he convinced her reason, she could
not bear to admit that he was right and that she
was wrong. And certainly he did not do much to
help her to a better mood. If she was sarcastic and
defiant he was fierce and intolerant. For, alas !
he was not yet always strong enough in body and
in soul to be gentle in spirit. Hence he lacked
the power which strength and gentleness combined,
confer. The encounter of two such headstrong
young simpletons, with the atoms of their spiritual
being continually polarized in antagonistic directions,
was not likely to issue in spiritual at-element
of any kind. Yet some of these encounters were

24—2

sufficiently curious and amusing, at least for those
who care for such things — perhaps instructive and
pathetic — to be transferred from more private
journals to this record.

It had become clear to Dayrell, much meditating
on all the objections and charges Lady Stella used
to bring against Christianity, that her notions of
what the word meant were little better than a mere
travesty of what he began to see was the actual
truth of the matter. But he also saw that until
she could attain some firm faith in the existence of
a personal Grod, who, unlike the gods of Mount
Olympus, cared for human beings in their wants
and. troubles at least as much as a shepherd in the
East cares for his sheep, watching over them,
leading, guiding, protecting, delivering them, there
was no use in talking about the " Good Shepherd,"
or the deliverance which, under the modern name
of Christianity, He was sent to effect. Hence on
one occasion when, in the course of conversation
they were drifting into speculations concerning the
origin of the Universe, and she gave him an
opening by saying that certain phenomena occurred
simply and solely because it was according to the Laws
of Nature ! he asked her what she understood by those
words, whereupon she promptly replied, " Oh, the
regular order of things as Science has taught and
explained them." When he asked who gave the Laws,
because a Law implied a Law-giver, she answered
that this was " precisely what no one could know."

Then that is why you and other learned folk,"
said Dayrell, '* like to call yourselves Agnostics''

"You are sarcastic," said Stella haughtily.

"I never used to be," replied the young gentleman.
" I must have learned to be so in
bad company. But I meant no offence. Do you
not know the Latin for Agnostic ? " (No answer.) '' It
is 'Ignoramus.''''^* This, though a shaft aimed at
herself and striking hard, was too keen and delightful
a hit for the fair disputant to resent, and
provoked from her only a merry little laugh.

Come, Mr. Wilfrid, you are very rude ; but I'll
forgive you if you clearly and at once explain what
you mean by the laws of Nature, otherwise I command
you to depart instantly from my presence."

Grood," replied Dayrell. " Then I mean by the
Laws of Nature, the way in which Grod acts."

"Ah," said Stella, and silently pondered.

Presently she continued, "If by God you simply
mean some Cause, Power, or Will which sets everything
in motion and keeps all things going, I have
no objection to the phrase. For I quite admit we
must come at last to acknowledge something behind
all phenomena. Matthew Arnold's attempt to ignore
such a primal Cause or Will by talking of * a stream
of tendency,' indeed all such attempts to account
for Creation and the existing order of things by
speaking of Evolution from protoplasm, &c., I have
learned to see is merely resorting to the old

i.e., being interpreted, " We are ignorant"'

Oriental absurdity of making the world rest on a
gigantic elephant and the elephant on an equally
monstrous tortoise. Of course they who use such
hypotheses " (Dayrell noticed that the lady employed
more accurate as well as more scientific terms and
modes of reasoning than formerly) " have to explain
how protoplasm or monads ever came to be
endowed with such wonderful vitality, or to be able
to generate and maintain such an orderly stream of
tendency. I know it is just as difficult to explain
that, as to account for the first commencement of
any phenomena. Therefore if, as I said, you like
to call the unknown Primal Will or cause by the
name of God, I should have no objection to concede
the privilege. Will that satisfy your lordship ? "

"No, my dear lady — no, by heaven, and all that's
dearest there and here ! When a stone will satisfy
the hunger which craves for bread, that statement
will meet the wants of the human soul. Oh, Lady
Stella, believe me — or rather, believe your own nobler
nature — there are wants of the soul, grand and
blessed instincts, aspirations, illimitable desires and
affections, which no empty phrases about Cause, and
Will, and Power can ever satisfy — which seek and
demand an object, a Being worthy of them, able and
willing to meet them with answering fulfilment and
love. Have you not more than once told me you
felt that it was not a thing but a Person whom alone
you could adore and love with your whole heart and
soul — on whom you could rest in sore trouble ? "

*• Yes," said Stella faintly. All her hard, proud
manner was gone now. She seemed stirred by emotions
too deep for any superficial or satirical remarks.

Mr. Dayrell," she said at length, and these very
words showed how far they had drifted apart, " you know
how earnestly I have longed to be able to see with
you in this matter, and have craved for the knowledge
you and others seem to have gained. But
where is the knowledge to come from ? Nature
does not reveal her origin nor the secret of her
orderly evolution, nor even of the continuance, from
hour to hour, of the beatings of our hearts. That
is why we have been driven to speak of this Primal
Cause and sustaining Energy as Unknown and Unknowable."


'* But, Lady Stella, if the Primal Cause or Will
has created us with the quenchless aspirations and
longing for an object worthy of our noblest adoration
and deepest love, must He not have done something
to reveal Himself to our hearts — something
which Nature does not, and, as you truly say,
cannot make known to us concerning His existence,
character, providence, love ? "

One might have expected this," said Stella
sorrowfully, '' but "

"But I think He has," continued Dayrell. "At
least, I find an old story and an ancient people
telling us that exactly what one would expect to be
done really had been done."

Whenever in former days he had come as near the

thorns ground of the Bible as this, Stella had shown
symptoms of restiveness too dangerous for him to
feel it safe to proceed; but now she seemed at least
in a gentler if not more acquiescent mood. So he
continued :

During my long imprisonment I have been reading
with an interest which I confess surprised myself
those old histories of the call of Abraham and his
descendants, and it seems to me they exactly meet
the terrible difficulty presented by the silence and
enigmas of Nature. I can't help thinking that if
there be a primal originating Cause who has made
us in His own image, with all these deep desires,
warm affections, lofty aspirations, and terrible
troubles, made us for His own exceeding and never-ending
blessedness, the course He is described in
the Bible as taking to make Himself known is just
the grandest and yet the simplest that could have
been desired — a course adapted in the most perfect
way, consistent with the nature He has given us, for
interpreting both that nature, all Nature, and Himself.
Lord Bacon, in one of the wisest sentences
that even he ever wrote, says that Grod teaches us
by facts. Oh, Lady Star-Queen, when I look up at
night to the regions whence you most probably descended,
and gaze into those infinite depths of space
where constellations of suns and worlds are thronging
these illimitable realms, far beyond what not only
the eye but the imagination can behold, I know
that I also should be an Agnostic had not their

Creator revealed himself to Abraham and to Moses,
and in Christ ! But in those old records I see Him
gradually unveiling Himself, first as a Creator, then
as a Personal God, which you have more than once
allowed is an essential condition of religious worship,
admiration, and Love; then as a Righteous Being,
loving goodness, hating iniquity; then as a loving
Friend and watchful Providence, caring for all the
beings He has created, protecting, guiding, delivering,
chastening, unfolding, evolving all that is good —
checking, opposing all that is evil. Much that is
evil we find, indeed, mentioned in the Bible, but
only to show that God's face is set against it, and
that His judgments, sooner or later, overtake it.
And that, by the bye, reminds me of a very important
point, much insisted on, I believe, by philosophical
Theists — viz., that unless there be a Supreme Being
as good and holy as He is wise and powerful, there is no
fountain or source of Moral goodness, no standard of
absolute eternal Eight and Wrong. The very foundations
of our moral being are cut from under us.
What is right in my eyes may be wrong in my
neighbour's ; and while one nation declares theft
and murder to be crimes, another may exalt them as
virtues. This, we know has been the case ; and who
is to decide between us ? Every one may do what
is right or desirable in his own eyes. No training of
the conscience, no obedience to a Moral law, or any
law except through fear of punishment, no devotion
to the Good, as distinguished from the merely Expedient

or Useful, is possible. Would not the noblest
elements of our nature and existence be taken from
us if we could not recognize and bow before a Supreme
First Cause, who is a God of Righteousness, of Holiness,
of Justice, of Eternal Goodness ? "

He that cometh to God," said Stella musingly,
'' must believe that He is, and that He is not only
the Rewarder of them that diligently seek Him, but
the Fountain and God of Righteousness. Perhaps
you are right. Certainly, the Jewish writers of the
Psalms and the Prophets thought so, and thought
they knew who and what God is, however we may
confess and deplore our ignorance."

*' But have they not as much right. Lady Stella,
to believe and trust in their old national records as
we Anglo-saxons and Normans have in our annals ?
to believe what has been handed down to them from
father to son for countless generations about Abraham
and Moses as we have about Alfred the Great, or as
the modern Greeks have to believe in Solon and
Miltiades ? No right, indeed, if they deliver to us
only rubbish and grotesque fancies — but every right
to believe, and to ask us to believe, in what gives a
grand yet simple, a dignified and glorious explanation
of all that most concerns, most perplexes, and, if
unexplained, most tortures and at last destroys us."

Ah," remarked Stella, rather drearily, after a pause,
if that view really does explain the mystery, and
at the same time unfolds all that is best and noblest
in our nature, I for one would welcome it. Yet I

find in myself a fathomless capacity for doubt. And
truth to say, I am weary of seeking and never finding.
But here comes your mother, and you. Sir
Galahad, must go."

That evening Stella searched in her father's study
for the old family Bible, and like many other virtuous
and troubled souls, stealthily conveyed it to her
room, turned over its pages as if it had come from
a fever-stricken chamber, yet read a good deal about
the Chaldean chieftain and the call that took him
from his kith and kin and early home, with a curious
interest compounded strangely of delight and proud
contemptuous aversion.

One morning soon after this conversation, when
the ladies at the Manor were working and reading
aloud by turns, they were surprised by a visitor,
whose card, when handed by the footman to Lady

Stella, proved to be that of Professor . All,

from various impulses, were slightly fluttered by the
interview ; but the gentleman's reception was very
cordial. He explained that he had often wished to
call since he had heard of Lady Stella's bereavement,
and yet hardly felt sufficiently intimate to
take that liberty. But having to distribute prizes
gained in Cambridge " locals " and by the classes
under the Science and Art Department at the neighbouring
cathedral town on the following evening,
he was taking the opportunity of making sundry
entomological researches in the neighbourhood of
Hurstleigh Manor, and had ventured to send in his

card with inquiries regarding the ladies. Of course
he was made to stay to luncheon, and pressed to
return to dinner when he should have concluded his
scientific investigations. Nothing loth, he did so,
and had much lively conversation especially with the
lady of the house, who greatly enjoyed putting him
to *' the question " in regard to his theories of Evolution,
Originating Cause, Sustaining Will, &c. Xot
that her metaphorical " rack " appeared to inflict the
slightest pain on her buoyant victim ; but in her
present flighty mood she thought it great fun to
see his obvious inability to satisfy her doubts concerning
his explanations, and to behold him, as she
afterwards described it to Frances, " trying to wriggle
out of the nonsense of his own complacent assumptions."


But no doubt it was a real if transient delight
to Stella to exchange solemn conversation with the
serious Sir Galahad at the Priory for the sparkling
wit and amusing coruscations of scientific intellect
that streamed from the lips of the great philosopher.
All the more because she felt so completely at her
ease, at times overwhelming her visitor with raillery
and banter of the most charming, playful and cruel
description. Hence during the whole visit the
Professor oscillated between involuntary admiration
combined with passion of a certain vehement sort,
and a disconcerted, puzzled and anything but a
lover-like, frame of mind. When the thought
struck Stella, once or twice, that she was making

her visitor decidedly uncomfortable, she silenced it
by saying to herself " Oh, I'll make it all up to
him when he comes again tomorrow, by no end of
amiable and honeyed attentions" — which she really
meant to do, and gave herself therefore full swing
now and then in that art of tormenting which was
so dear, as she said, to her unregenerate soul.
Hence on the whole, especially towards the close of
the visit the chilled and mortified mood predominated
in the Professor's mind — he couldn't exactly
say why, but he was not accustomed to be quizzed,
and didn't altogether like it, while of one thing he
went away convinced — that the Lady Stella at
Hurstleigh Manor, and owner of that magnificent
property, was a much grander personage and gave
herself a great many more airs than when she was
flirting and dancing at the sea-side. When in her
blandest and most winning manner that highborn
damsel was saying adieu to her guest and
begging him to come and spend the next day with
them at the Manor, she took it for granted that
of course he would come. Hence she was not a
little taken aback by his expressing regret that it
was impossible for him to do so — he had to make
preparations for the evening ceremony (at which
he secretly hoped she would make a point of being
present), and had several important and pressing
engagements in London which obliged him to leave

T by an early train the following morning —

but he was most grateful for Lady Stella's kindness,

should always remember this pleasant little visit,
&c., &c. At first she was very sorry and remorseful
then after a time felt it a relief and next
day ended by being glad that he was not coming
again.

Yet according to her mercurial and decidedly
capricious temperament, just in proportion as Stella
while in the Professor's company had resisted his
reasoning, ridiculed his theories, and almost snubbed
himself, she gave weight to all he had said and
repented of her "evil behaviour," after he was gone.
Had the great man been able, or rather willing, to
call again while in the neighbourhood, his treatment
by the Mistress of the Manor would probably have
been much more encouraging. But he did not
know of that probability; he really had important
engagements as he said, coming off shortly in
London ; and his pride had been hurt as well as
his ardour chilled. So he vanished from the scene,
seeking and finding consolation elsewhere; while for
the rest of that evening Stella was mortified, and
Frances, who had played sympathetic friend, was
secretly sometimes pleased, sometimes a little sad.

Will you not go to this grand ceremonial tonight
at T ? " inquired Frances the next day.

Not if I know it, dear coz," replied Stella. " I'm
not so young and volatile as you, remember. But
you and aunt can have the carriage, of course, and
go, if you like."

So the aunt and cousin went, but Lady Stella

remained at home, played " Huntsman, rest " with
variations, and meditated.

Certainly the Professor's lively conversation withall
his entertaining descriptions and piquant anecdotes
concerning the sayings and doings of " Society,"
were vastly more amusing, if less instructive, than
much of Wilfrid Darrell's talk ; and the latter contrasted
rather unfavourably in Stella's mind with the
former in more respects than one. But a worse trouble
than all her lover's previous vagaries was impending
over her. For a great idea had taken possession
of Dayrell's mind — one which during the last
eighteen centuries, somehow or other, seems to have
repeatedly filled and fascinated the souls of many
of the bravest and noblest of our race — which has
inspired large sections and powerful organizations of
every section of the Christian church in all the
leading Christian nations — a thought, an impulse, a
longing which sprang from an infinite pity, a thirst
for adventure, a boundless gratitude, and a divine
love.

It may be remembered that the son of Charles
Dayrell's old friend. Dr. Arthur Eivers, having won
distinction at Balliol had taken orders, and now in
middle life was the much-admired and eloquent
incumbent of a well-known church at the West-end.
This gentleman, who was as manly a Christian as
his father and was a personal friend of the family,
had always shown a good deal of interest in Wilfrid
Dayrell, but had not won much of that gentleman's

confidence or regard until lie came down, full of
sympathy, to the Priory, after the melancholy catastrophe
in the hunting field. But in time, though
very slowly, Wilfrid's heart warmed towards him
under the influence of the clergyman's kind and
tender sympathy, and his cheerful healthy consolation.
No doubt his religious influence, at all events
in the later days of the sufferer's trial-time, though
for the most part unacknowledged, was greater than
he had ever supposed would be possible.

During the latter part of Dayrell's illness, Dr.
Rivers had come from town one evening to the
Priory to spend a day or two with his young friend
and the family ; for all rejoiced greatly in his visits,
few and far between though they were. In the
course of conversation Dayrell had been privately
confiding to his friend some of his more recent
experiences, and ended by confessing, rather awkwardly,
how deeply he now began to long for power and
opportunity to share with others the blessings which
he felt his great Deliverer had bestowed on himself.

"Right," said Dr. Rivers. "Right. As the Archbishop
of Dublin hath it :

' For we must share, if we would keep,
Our blessings from above.
Ceasing to give we cease to have —
Such is the Law of Love'"

"But my dear Sir, what, what can I do to share
them — lying here helpless and forlorn, or pottering
about on an old pony?"

Nay, but you are gaining strength, my dear boy,
gaining health, every week. I fully expect to see
you once more active and strong. Then indeed you
would do well to make a thank-offering to God, a
worthy and acceptable sacrifice to the Lord of the
Churches for your great deliverance from bodily, yet
more from spiritual, desolation and death. Yet you
might even now " — said the clergyman, then paused,
musing — but presently continued, " If I might suggest
without presumption, Mrs. Dayrell and yourself
might at once make a noble thank-offering to the
Giver of all good . . ."

Tell me how, dear Dr. Rivers," said Wilfrid
earnestly.

"Have you not sometimes thought with sorrow,"
said the clergyman, " of the wretched condition
of the labourers' dwellings on your mother's-estate
? Think what it must be for whole families
to live in such miserably small rooms, often far-worse
housed than your horses, and obliged to herd
together, young and old and both sexes, in one
wretched sleeping room . . ."

Wilfrid clapped his hand to his face as if to
shut out the sad sight and presently exclaimed,
Too true — too true. It has never struck me
before. Strange, but true. All this should, must
be remedied. But how, how can it be done. My
mother for her rank in life is comparatively very
poor. My father left the property rather heavily
mortgaged. My long illness has been a most expend
11. - 25

sive affair. I fear I can earn nothing for a long time
to come. . . . Yet, what is the good of all this
talk about religion, all this striving to draw near to
God if we can't love our neighbour at least as well as
ourselves. Yet I can't tell you, Dr. Rivers " (and
the speaker's voice sank almost to a moan) " how
very much I want to go right away to some missionary
work. Would to heaven, I knew what my duty is ! "

Clearly yom* duty now, my dear fellow, is to get
well and strong as soon as you can, and at the
same time to find the means of getting your
labourers better housed. Then, I should say, work
up for examinations. Gret ordained and, as a priest
of the Anglican Church, enter on the noblest career
ever offered to man. And if, as the doctors will
probably say, you cannot, for a few years to come,
stand the hard work and exposure to rough weather
which faithful clerical labours in this country often
involve, why not make a voyage to New Zealand, or
those fair islands in the Pacific ocean which seem
framed by Providence for all the blessings of our first
parents' primaeval Paradise — a Paradise from which
the Great Deliverer by His faithful servants has
already done so much to expel the fiends that
cursed it, and who will assuredly some day, by some
hands, complete His glorious work."

Dayrell's eyes were glistening with sympathetic
emotion, but he didn't or couldn't speak.

"Have you ever read," continued his friend, "any
accounts of what has been done by our missionaries

in the South-sea islands ? — how they have diminished
or put an end to infanticide, cannibalism,
incessant wars, slavery, and other abominations, so
that vast portions of that Archipelago of lovely
islands are almost as sweet and fair in the purity
and Christian beauty of the lives of their inhabitants
as they have always been in their natural physical
charms ? Shall I send you the life of John
Williams, one of the first, noblest, and most successful
of the South-sea missionaries ? "

I should be so grateful to you — " replied Dayrell.

And when the book came he read it from
morning till night, lost in delicious contemplation
of the wonderful work wrought out amongst those
"Isles of the Blest," just as the clergyman had
described it. Then he got various other accounts
both of ordinary explorations, and of missionary
enterprise, among the Polynesians, till his whole
heart and brain were ** charged full of electric fire,"
and as he regained the use of his limbs, his imagination
was full of visions of Paradisiacal missions.
His chief thought by day and dream by night was
how he could win his way to the " Coral isles'' and
help their simple child-like inhabitants to bring
Heaven on earth by establishing the kingdom of
God amid scenes of earthly bliss and loveliness that
would then be almost divine.

No wonder if all this came upon Stella at an
early period of their renewed intercourse with a
shock as startling as it was distressing.

25—2

Under some circumstances, and if brought before
her under certain aspects, there was much in Stella's
nature and tendencies that would have led her to
sympathize deeply with her lover in his enthusiasm,
and even to share his romantic desire to dwell in
those far-away regions. But not just now, and not
at all in the way he put it before her. He saw
with bitter regret in after years, but he could not see
then, how often in contending with her vehemently
for what he believed to be the truth and the right,
he was far too inconsiderate of her early training,
her mental condition, and special difficulties — too
much absorbed, in fact, in his own thoughts and
desires. Hence he could do little to convince or to
help her. Of course she also was much to blame ;
but if he could have understood and made allowances
for all her need and hindrances then, as he
could and would have done in later days, *' it would
have been well for them both, poor souls," as Fred
Ellerslie at the proper time — i.e., when it was much
too late — duly remarked.

Yet Stella could not help admiring the splendid
enthusiasm which, during their first conversation on
the subject, she saw lighting up her lover's whole
countenance, sparkling in his eyes, or ever and anon
coming in unconscious eloquence and impassioned
words from his lips, as he dilated on the grand self-sacrifice
of missionary labours, on the profound compassion
and Christian brotherly spirit, as well as the
devoted piety and gratitude to Grod, which had sent

those disciples of a crucified and ascended Lord across
dreary deserts, or " the wild waste of waters " to far-off
inhospitable shores, where at first many privations,
perhaps torture and death, too often awaited them.
And had he, at the outset, forborne to press the theological
considerations, which she was still unprepared
to accept, and dwelt on the more aesthetic and
romantic aspects of his theme, as he did at a later
period, she would have hearkened in a very different
temper. As it was, all she could find it in her heart
to answer when he paused, was, with a great sigh,

Oh dear, oh dear I— What next ? "

It would be difficult to say which of the twain at
that moment was most unhappy.

But Stella recovered herself first, for she felt inexpressibly
grieved both that she could not give the
enthusiast more sympathy, and at seeing the pain
depicted on his countenance.

I'm very — sorry — " she said, in faltering tones, " but
I can't — help it " . . . (Xo answer.) . . . " You
seem to be very much in earnest, Mr. Dayrell. I wish
I could be." . . . (Still no sign from him.) . . .
'•' Though I ought not perhaps to wish to be possessed
like you " (her voice was rising nervously), — " yes,
possessed, painfully ! " (The last words came with a
whiz like a rifle bullet, for she was becoming rather
desperate.)

*' Aye," replied Dayrell, with a great effort, " possessed
indeed, but oh, Lady Stella, not painfully .
The spirit of goodness, of Grod, the indwelling presence

of Christ gives — not pain — but peace. No doubt you
are right in one thing. I am in earnest — and I am
possessed. And, Lady Stella, if you had ever known
what it is to be possessed by the devil, perhaps by seven
devils, — if you had ever had to lie in darkness, weariness,
or pain, hour after hour for months together, if
your own thoughts and passions had been worse
torture than any bodily suffering, without one rag of
hope or comfort, — and then had gradually found
light, peace, love, even joy coming into your soul,
perhaps you also would be very much in earnest about
your deliverance and your Deliverer. At least you
would then understand and sympathize with me a
little more."

"Yes," said Stella, sighing again, though less sadly
than before. " But then, dear Mr. Dayrell, you see I
have not had all that doleful experience ; and you told
me once that sympathy depends on knowledge."

Some day perhaps you will have that experience,"
replied Dayrell. " God loves you too well, I think, tolet
you die without knowing and loving Him, even if
you have to come to him through the fire. But I
ought not to say this. You will only think me a
canting noodle or a presumptuous and cruel bigot —
perhaps a fanatical soft-head into the bargain, whose
intellect has been somewhat disordered by suffering
and illness."

Stella looked at her companion with what at first
was only a strangely sad and wistful smile ; but
it was an inexplicable delight to her at any time

to see Wilfrid Dayrell in what she called a furore.
She could not share his enthusiasm, but she immensely
enjoyed witnessing it ; and hence it looked as if she
sometimes made remarks expressly in order to lash
him into vehemence. Presently she observed in a
lighter tone :

You seem to have some very beautiful and
delightful visions, or impressions, as you call them, on
your brain, Mr. Wilfrid, but after all, they may be
only your own fancies. You have no proof, you can't
know, that there is anything really outside you corresponding
to what you fancy is in heaven above or in
the air around — though I admit you do seem to know,
or think you know, a good deal about heaven and the
inhabitants thereof."

But allow me to ask in retm-n, dear Lady Disdain
(you once told me you liked the name, remember, and
wished you had been born a Beatrice) "

Oh, but only," interrupted Stella, '' if there had
been a Benedick to match — which there isn't — but
pray go on. What is it you would ask ? "

This — how do you know, after all, that there is
anything outside you corresponding to the impressions
or fancies you have in your mind about any external
objects ? You can't get outside yourself to look, can
you now ? "

No," replied Stella, dubiously, but laughing. " I
don't see how I could manage that."

You know nothing, remember," continued Dayrell,
of the outside world except by the impressions which,

somehow or other, are conveyed to your mind. What
there is to produce them, or how they come to you,
you do not and cannot know. My consciousness of
the existence and presence of Good in Christ and in
creation, and my knowledge of Him, through Nature,
the Bible, and through Christ, is produced in my mind
exactly in the same way as the belief in your mind
that there is sunshine and a whole world of beauty and
ugliness around you, with a lot of wise men in it, and
a few fools for the wise to laugh at. Your belief
comes from your experience — my belief comes from
mine."

This was a new view of the subject to Stella,
and she sat pondering. The Professor, with all
his wisdom, had never put this obvious truth before
her. She could not answer her present instructor,
but she thought that there certainly must be a
crushing reply to such a strange and monstrous
argument. Had she allowed her 
to proceed, years ago, a little farther
with his instructions, it would not have appeared so
strange to her now. And had she looked for a reply
till her body parted from her soul, and inquired of
all the wisest of mankind in the meantime, she
would not have found an answer — as, indeed, she
learnt before she died. For, in truth, answer there
is none

The next time that the domestic Fates were propitious,
and Dayrell found himself and his bewitching
plaguy " Silver-Star " conversing tete-astute, he
took an opportunity of doing what he ought to have
done when he first wanted to broach his missionary
schemes. He began by quoting from "Locksley
Hall":

Or to burst all links of habit — there to wander far away,
On from island unto island at the gateways of the day,
Larger constellations burning, mellow moons and happy skies,
Breadths of tropic shade and palms in cluster. Knots of Paradise.

Droops the heavy-blossomed bower, hangs the heavy-fruited tree,
Summer Isles of Eden lying in dark-purple spheres of sea."

Then he asked if he might read to her a little
from one of his and her favourite poems — Byron's
** Island." She always greatly enjoyed hearing him
read, especially anything of Byron's. But now she
had grown suspicious. She had been associating the
idea of Dayrell, as a missionary, with pictures of
stuck-up, pompous, and bigoted prigs, or obese,
sensual hypocrites, with no end of absurd and
horrid palaver about the devil and hell-fire, and
lazy limbs of selfish Christians rejoicing in what
they called the salvation of their souls, and in the

damnation of most other people's. So that Byron's
exquisite descriptions of Neuha's island, and her
and Torquil's love, did not produce quite the satisfactory
effect Dayrell hoped for. Still, it was impossible
for her not to enjoy her lover's musical
voice, and the beauty of what he read with his
whole soul steeped in the thoughts it aroused — or
to be insensible to the impassioned fervour and
delicate power with which he afterwards enlarged
on all the beauty and peace, the idyllic charms
and loveliness of life in many of those coral isles
of the '' deep-blue ocean," where the inhabitants
were often as happy and innocent as Adam and
Eve in the Garden of Eden.

Listen," he said, " to these descriptions from a
work by one of the most recent visitors to those
enchanting scenes. It has a ridiculous and misleading
title, but it admirably and truthfully
describes much that other explorers have discovered
and recorded in their more prosaic style. The
writer had been enthusiastically interested from his
boyhood in the South Pacific Islands, ' over which
words,' he says, * a strange glamour for me had
always hung, and many a time . I had wandered
in imagination along their golden sands, and
beneath their lofty groves of palms.' Then, after
visiting the Tonga or Friendly Isles, and the Samoan
group, he writes of them thus : ' Through the haze
loomed Ena, a bold-looking island, its highest land
being 600 feet above the sea. . . The ocean

swell rises in a great, grand curve over the coral
reef, shining out in its emerald green against the
dark pure blue of the deeper water; and then,
dashing itself with its mighty force upon the reef,
it rises in a cloud of white spray. . . Beyond the
great rocks and reefs,' which act like guardian arms
to protect the island from ocean storms, ' . . .
commences a belt of dense and beautiful forest
. . Close to the shore . . . runs the line of
cocoa-palms. . . . Other trees farther inland are
seen, and then beautiful green pasture. . . . The
sand on the shore is of a bright gold colour . . .
just beyond is a broad strip of green turf. . A
young cocoa-palm . is one of the very loveliest
things in Xature.' . . . There are plenty of beautiful
flowering shrubs, hibiscus, gardenias, &c., with
large purple butterflies hovering over them. . . .'
But ' ah, what a hopeless task,' says the writer, ' it
seems to try and describe a tithe of the beauties
of these glorious islands. There is a rapturous intoxication
in the very air one breathes ; a sense of
beauty everywhere around in earth, and sea, and
air that it is impossible to describe.' " *

Are there any natives there ? " asked Stella,
after a pause.

Oh, yes — and they seem to be as charming as
their surroundings. Their colour is that of cream
and coffee ! The women have the most beautiful
eyes in the world, he says, and the men are as

"Camping among Cannibals," by Alfred St. Johnston. Macmillan.

gentle and courteous as the women. They are all
fall of fun and vivacity. But listen to this description
of a night scene : ' The lustrous stars are
shining in a golden radiance in the deep blue of
the sky. . . . You hear the beating of the surf
far off on the guardian coral reef. . . . Here and
there is a light shining through the palm trees.
Now and then dim white-robed figures pass us,
hand in hand, idyllic. . . . ' "

That sounds very lovely — too much so to be
true. Are there any birds ? "

Oh, yes, plenty. Among others, the writer
mentions ' Hocks of pure white tropic birds, pairs
of which often separate themselves and fly together
higher and higher, till almost lost in the cloudless
sky. . . .'"

Even the birds are idyllic and sentimental, too,
then," remarked Stella musingly, but her lip was
curled, and Dayrell at once passed on to further
descriptions of the scenery.

' A banana plantation,' says our traveller,
growing beneath a grove of taller cocoa palms,
is exquisitely lovely.' Then the creepers are so
beautiful. And all this earthly paradise lies within
a few weeks' sail of our own shores. . . . Lady
Stella, to me — much meditating on the sorrows
and sins of this old European world of ours — can
you wonder if it has seemed that God had been
preparing through the ages, in those coral isles, a
refuge, a rest, and a home for His children when

they have done the work required for civilization
in Europe, and have become fitted by Christian
love and purity to dwell in that fair garden of
Eden. . . . See, I have spent some days during
the last few weeks in thoroughly exploring the
slums of Southwark and the East-end, Stephen
and Shadwell, &c. Do you think I dare describe
what I saw — what I know to be the condition in
which millions are living at this very hour in the
midst of our boasted Christianity and civilization ?
Alas, Royal Commissions and missionary clergymen
have made it our own damning fault and sin if we

remain ignorant of what " his voice trembled,

and he was silent for a few minutes. Then he
began to speak of the infinite need of lifting off the
terrible pressure of crowded populations of the old
world on each individual life and soul, of removing
the curse of hungry competition from the vast and
increasing masses of victims crushed by an unchristian
selfish civilization. When he asked, " Could
not this be done by transporting them to the fair
sweet homes offered them by Providence in the new
Pacific regions ? " Stella evidently became deeply
interested. "Would it not," he continued, with
increasing enthusiasm, " be an infinitely blessed
and noble work if one could do ever so little to
help this grand Aryan race, which has conquered
and civilized half the world, to begin a new and
happier life in the fairest portion of the other half?
It has fought and toiled grandly so far, but yet

often with immeasurably sad and cruel results, even
after all its conquests, triumphs, and toil. May
there not be ' a Eest remaining ' for it now in those
lovely regions ? May there not be a beautiful life
for Englishmen there, where — made wise by past
experience, and good, and gentle, and unselfish by
the spirit of Christ, they may rear homes of peace
and beauty, blessing alike the primaeval inhabitants
of those climes and the new denizens escaping
thither from the foul and reeking hives of unrewarded
toil and enjoyed luxury in our dreary
Western cities ? . . . Lady Stella, you do, I
know you do, see with me in this matter ; you do
sympathize with me, whether you know it fully or
not, in longing to see human life regenerated by
a new departure which shall give fair play and
better chances to what is best and highest inhuman
nature and divine influence. Only thus can
the Bacchantic dream of one I loved, the true
divine worship of Joy, ever be realized. You have
too much yourself of the divine in your own nature
forgive my saying so — not to long for a higher
and happier state in this world, whatever you think
about another."

"I do not think you know " Stella began,

but paused, leaning her head on her hand, and
shading her face. Then Dayrell spoke again:

"I think I do. Can I forget—

' Can I forget that night in June,'

beneath the star-lit sky, when — (ah, how long ago it

now seems) — when you said to me, in words and
tones I could never forget : ' I will — I do — believe
me — worship Something of Ineffable Beauty and,
Grandeur — I do look up to — I know not what.
You did not then see Whom to worship, and you were
too honest to pretend to. But can you not conceive
of life in those far-away climes, where all that we
have most loved and admired in the spirit of
Byron's adoration and lofty worshipping joy, might
be possible to us, as it never can be

' . . . in these thick solitudes

Called social, where all vice and hatred are ' ?

Does he not interpret for us truly something of
what is best and holiest in us when he says —

' There is a pleasure in the pathless woods,
There is a rapture on the lonely shore,
There is society where none intrudes.
By the deep sea — and music in its roar ;
I love not Man the less, hut Nature more
From these our interviews, in which I steal
From all I may be, or have been before,
To mingle with the Universe, and feel
What I can ne'er express, yet cannot all conceal. '

Then again, is it not the same devout worshipping
spirit, seeking unconsciously after G-od, which filled
the poet's soul when he wrote —

■ " * How often we forget all time, when lone,
Admiring Nature's universal throne.
Her woods, her wilds, her waters, the intense
Reply of hers to our intelligence !.
Live not the stars and mountains ? Are the waves
Without a spirit ? Are the drooping eaves
Without a feeling in their silent tears ?

No, no — they woo and clasp us to their spheres,
Dissolve this clod and clog of clay before
Its hour, and merge our soul in the great shore.
Strip off this fond and false identity 1 —
Who thinks of self-when gazing on the sky ?
And who though gazing lower, ever thought.
In the young moments ere the heart is taught
Time's lesson, of man's baseness, and his own ?
All nature is his realm, and Love his throne.'

But am I not wearying you with all these "

Oh, no, no," interrupted Stella. " I love to
hear you."

*' There is only one more passage I should like
to refer to, but I think it is, perhaps, the most
beautiful of all — I mean those exquisite stanzas in
the third canto of ' Childee Harold ' — the night scene
on the Lake of Geneva :

' All heaven and earth are still, though not in Sleep,
But breathless as we grow when feeling most —
And silent, as we stand in thoughts too deep : —
* * * * »

Then stirs the feeling infinite, so felt
In solitude, where we are least alone ;
A truth, which through our being, then doth melt
And purifies from self : It is a tone.
The soul and source of music, which makes known
Eternal harmony, and sheds a charm
Like to the fabled Cytherea's zone,
Binding all things with beauty ; 't would disarm
The spectre Death, had he substantial power to harm.
Not vainly did the early Persian make
His altar the high places, and the peak
Of earth-operating mountains, and thus take
A fit and uncalled temple, there to seek
The Spirit, in whose honour shrines are weak,
Upreared of human hands. Come and compar

Columns and idol-dwellings, Goth or Greek,

With Nature's realms of worship, earth and air,

Nor fix ou fond abodes to circumscribe thy prayer ! ' "

When Dayrell had finished his quotations, Stella
made no remark, and he just murmured :

'' Lady Stella, may we not do something together,
to bring some souls, at least — our own included —
to love and worship in this spirit, in that 'Better
Land ' beyond the sea ? "

She turned away, still silent, laying some work
on the table . . . But he knew it was to hide
either a smile or a tear which she could not quite
repress.

After a silence of a few minutes, Dayrell
ventured to say :

Am I wrong, dear Lady Stella, in asking you to
think how truly you saw the real aim and worthy
object of any life worth living, when you spoke
in old days of the deep need of the human heart
for worship, adoration, of that which is above
and beyond ourselves — when you felt that only
in such living for Good, to Grod, is there any real
abiding life, or love, peace, or joy ? "

"Mr. Darrell," said Stella, "I believe as firmly
as ever, even if I cannot feel as deeply, all that
you remind me I once expressed, and I have
learned since then, also, that there are other
moods of the soul, and other circumstances of life,
that make us long to believe in God, besides
those when we feel the need of worshipping, of
VOL. II. 26

drawing nigh to some Being of ineffable Beauty
and Grandeur — and — Love. . . For I have known
since those days a little, though a very little, of
your own experiences of sorrow and suffering, and
learnt how they also make us long and seek —
blindly it may be, yet most earnestly — for One
who in His calm infinite Peace, Strength, and Love
can comfort and help us — will, if we only ask and
trust Him. . . But then," she added sadly,
"these moods change, pass away, and we sink
lower than my poor pet here" (caressing the faithful
Jackoo), "for we become filled, and even satisfied
with vile thoughts and sentiments after rising to
the sphere of angels — which we cannot charge you
with doing, my poor little fellow."

' Could we but keep heights
Which we are competent to gain . . . . '

as that grand poet Wordsworth hath it," said
Dayrell. " But, Lady Stella, is not one great
reason why we sink back so often, and so far, from
the loftier heights, given us by the same poet in
that noble sonnet beginning

' The world is too much with us.'

Oh, how mournfully, miserably true is all that !
Do you not, in fact, feel that it is mere life-death
the way that myriads are now wearing out
their lives, the Upper Ten in the midst of
Society,' and the millions under the terrible
pressure of our over-crowded towns ? Look at all

those restless, worried, anxious, dissipated masses
pushing, striving, jostling, crushing one another
one half of them envying the other half, all of
them grumbling, groaning or sneering, cursing or
else pining, weeping, suffering in body or mind,
and most of them frequently passing from one of
these states to the other. Few individuals, no
great bodies of men, can long have sound minds
in sound bodies if largely divorced from the
healing, purifying influences of Xature. Moral and
physical deterioration must ensue. Is it well, is
it meant, that all this should continue — perhaps
increase — in evil growth ? Then look at their
amusements, most of them (not all) vulgar and
mean, by a natural reaction — burlesques, ballet-dancing,
parodies, satire, silly farces, kiss-entering.
Penny gaffs, Drinking-cum-Music-Halls, dancing
Casinos, ill-natured gossip, unseemly anecdotes,
scandal, slander, betting, gambling, speculating,
loose living — alike in high places and low. Then
for literature, reading all the sensational accidents
and crimes, all the vileness and degradation supplied
by police reports, divorce courts, assizes,
and furnished daily or weekly in newspapers,
and sensation novels. I have been lately looking
through a number of these newspapers, and
thinking what a wonderful and miserable thing
it is that the people who inherit in their mother-tongue
and by a national education the unspeakable
privilege of being able to read the noblest

26—2

literature in the world — Shakespeare, Milton, Scott,
Wordsworth, Byron, Longfellow — should give nearly
all their reading-leisure to such worthless trash,
and often far worse, as the employment of their
God-given time and faculties. Lady Stella, can
we not get away from all this ' Egyptian viper-jar '
condition, and standing on the fair Isles of the Sea
beckon to others who are weary of it also and who
crave for a purer, happier life ? How many there
are, methinks, who do not now wish to emigrate,
because they do not care to remove to lands
where there is the same struggle for existence, the
same everlasting greed and selfishness, but who
would gladly go to regions where mere existence is
happiness, and to settlements where the sweet
influences of Nature, where peace and purity and
worship, 'plain living and high thinking,' with
moderate and useful toil, brotherly co-operation,
and Christian love — Christian faith, hope, charity —
might have a power and a sway over simple lives
and innocent hearts which they never can have in
the great cities of this old world."

Mr. Wilfrid, your pictures are enchanting —
but — have you never read Tennyson's ' Lotos-eaters
? ' Are you not foreshadowing their existence,
and preparing for us their fate ? "

No ! " exclaimed Dayrell, with vehemence. " No
Christianity would preserve us."

But there was no response.

Once again there had been an opening, during
the conversation, for a mutual understanding — and
once again it had been lost.

The following evening, Dayrell was put on his
trial before all the ladies of both houses, assembled
after dinner at the Priory, for the charges
which, as they understood, he had brought against
newspapers in particular, and prevalent amusements
in general.

Well," said the prisoner at the bar, '' as
regards newspapers, I acknowledge their value iu
some important respects. Far be it from me not
to recognize the vastness of the service they have
rendered to the great social and political movements
of the last thirty years, merely by chronicling the
meetings that have been held, and reporting the
speeches delivered, to 'promote them. Without
all that publicity, propagandists and reformers
would have been speaking mostly hi vacuo, toiling
single-handed, instead of evoking the enthusiasm of
numbers and gaining influential sympathy and
support — forming, in fact, that public opinion which
at length becomes irresistible."

"Ah!" said Stella quietly, "I reminded you the
other night of your saying once that sympathy
depends on knowledge. But all this you have
just mentioned is indubitably a great service."

"Surely — and if newspapers confined themselves
to furnishing information only in regard to matters
of real importance, I should fling up my cap.

and with all the gutter news-boys cry ' Forest
Novem Organon ! ' i.e., ' Long live the machine
that grinds out our news.' Of course I don't complain
of any honest parties (from detectives to
duchesses, or from sporting men to James, in
Belgravia) being daily supplied with bona-fide
intelligence, interesting to themselves though not
to me or anybody else. I complain only of the
enormous quantity of information given by many
newspapers which is not, or rather never ought to
be, of the slightest interest or value to any decent
human being."

The court on the whole was evidently inclined
to agree with the prisoner, until cousin Frances
observed : " That may be very true, but if you
once begin reading a newspaper it is difficult
to leave off."

Precisely. Just so with sensational novels. And
that is one reason," answered the culprit, " why
both forms of writing are so mischievous. It's like
dram-drinking —the more you take the more you
want. I may be very guilty of being extremely
foolish in these my attacks on the greatest institution
of modern times — the Fourth Estate of the
Realm, and if I were a public man it would effectually
blast my whole future career to attack newspapers."


"Don Quixote against the windmills," interjected
Stella.

Exactly so — and I must frankly confess I seldom

take up a newspaper without seeing something
which I should have been very sorry to have missed.
Nevertheless I fancy there was one in old times, who,
in a certain letter, wrote to this effect : ' Whatsoever
things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever
things are just, whatsoever things are pure,
whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are
of good report, if there be any virtue, and if there
be any praise, think on these things.' But the
editors and proprietors of daily and weekly newspapers
to a large extent reverse this dictum, and
say to the public ' Whatsoever things are vile,
whatsoever things are frivolous or foolish, and base,
impure and cruel, or ugly and disgusting, if there
be any vice, and if there be any crime, think on
these things.' "

I'm afraid," said Mrs. Dayrell, '' the Apostle's
advice, beautiful as it is, wouldn't make a newspaper
pay."

There it is," said her son. " Newspapers are
great commercial undertakings in which immense
capital is embarked, and the proprietors must
look "

Do look, you mean," said Miss Dayrell.

*' Eight — do look for profitable returns. And yet
there are newspapers, at all events of the hebdomadal
order, which certainly have a high moral aim and
purpose — and as certainly are making immense
profits "

None are all evil," said Stella, *^ and we who

are all good, still abound in sufficient numbers
to make a few virtuous journals pay handsomely.
But now about your reckless accusations against
the theatres and comic journals, &c. Are not burlesques
and comic operas and even many farces
perfectly delightful ? "

Perfectly delightful," answered Dayrell, " to the
large number of persons who have nothing better todo
than to read or see them, or who, poor things, have
been demoralized by excessive toil and utterly uninteresting
drudgery— sometimes by self-indulgent
frivolity, or degrading dissipation. Not delightful,
I think, to persons who are living and working as
rational beings with pure and generous hearts and
well-cultured brains could, would and should do.
Mind, I am not such a noodle as to be protesting
against wit and humour, of which there is often a
goodly quantity, e.g)\, in "Punch," and — to its everlasting
honour, without any taint of coarseness or
impurity-rhone or two other caterers, I believe, for
public amusement, as well as occasionally in comic
operas, &c. What is to be so much regretted, as it
seems to me in these better publications and plays, is
not, of course, the real humour and wit and innocent
fun which we all enjoy, but the pandering to a
morbid craving for the ridiculous, and this vulgar
tendency to ridicule everything that by any possibility
can be laughed or sneered at, however true and
noble, tender, pathetic or refined in itself it may be."

You are rather severe to-night, Wilfrid," said

Mrs. Dayrell, glancing from the corner of her eye at
Lady Stella.

"Well," replied the obstinate criminal addressed,
is it not an infinite pity that so many thousands
one's fellow-creatures should be living lives both
among the * Upper Ten' and in the servants' hall,
in the back-slums, business offices and music saloons,
which makes them relish such degrading or prurient
talk, reading and amusements ? People's amusements
are an index not only to their characters, but
to their occupations and habits. If you think it
bigoted, Pharisaical, or priggish to regard the amusements
I have referred to as degrading, just consider
what a burlesque or parody means. It pre-supposes
something dignified, noble or pathetic to be ridiculed,
travestied. Coleridge somewhere observes ( I
quote from memory) that any vulgar fool can appear
to be witty at the expense of the Bible, because incongruity
(the Like-unlike), though not really the
essence of wit, is often mistaken for it, being closely
related to it, especially when the sublime and the
mean are brought into contact. Now the fool can
always find what is sublime in the Bible, while he
can as easily furnish what is mean from his own
resources, and raise a laugh in consequence. But it
is a poor triumph — mischievous and debasing, I cannot
but think, alike to him who wins it and those
who enjoy it."

"G-ranted," said Stella a little stiffly. "But what
has that to do with burlesques and parodies ? "

•• Don't you see ? " answered Darrell. " That remark
of Coleridge's used to occur to me when I
heard my father and grandfather speaking of a celebrated
Baptist preacher who thirty or forty years ago
attained a wonderful celebrity partly by making his
congregation lausfh at the comical things he uttered
in the pulpit. They said that most of them were
not at all witty or humorous in themselves, but
they amused the people and gave great piquancy to
his expositions and discourses because of their incongruity
with the sacred character of the building,
the religious services, and the reading of the Bible.
His comic remarks would have fallen flat if uttered
merely on a platform. He was, in fact, trading
on the respect or reverence usually felt for sacred
observances. In exactly the same way, writers of
burlesques, parodies, &c., trade on the respect and
reverence naturally felt for what is noble, dignified,
pathetic or tender, graceful, lovely, or refined. By
connecting all such things with what is coarse,
mean or vulgar, it is easy to raise a laugh. Hence
men grow rich by ridiculing all that should be
honoured or regarded with respectful interest and
attention and by furnishing the public with amusement
of a thoroughly degrading character. Here,
for instance, as soon as an eminent tragic actor
brings out a fine play at one theatre, an equally
noted comic playwright or actor, travesties it at
another. The comic and satirical papers do good
service by exposing the humbug and lashing the

follies of the day, and then often cancel the obligation
by misdirecting their satire, and ridiculing
much which it is of vital consequence to a community
that the citizens thereof should respect,
admire and esteem."

'•' If your favourite, Wordsworth, is right," observed
Mrs. Dayrell, '* in saying that ' we live by
Admiration, Hope, and Love,' certainly it cannot be
well for our national life that young people should
be accustomed to find delight far more in ridicule
than in Admiration. But then, Wilfrid, they say,
and everybody tells us, there is so little to admire
nowadays."

Who are so blind," replied Dayrell, " as those
who won't see ? But I admit we should not so much
blame the stupid providers of all this garbage for
the public — at least not more than the distillers who
provide and the publicans who dispense the fiery
poison that stimulates the ruffian and the harlot, the
gambler and the profligate to vice or crime. The
wretched system, as I vent-ed to say before, under
which vast multitudes so toil and live that they
have no taste for anything but the said garbage, is
chiefly to be blamed. Improve that condition, and
you will soon see a demand for something worthier
of a rational being; and while real wit and humour,
genuine fun and nonsense, will then always still
be relished, the rage for burlesque and parodies,
ill-natured and misplaced satire, scandal, gossip,
and empty-headed frivolity, as well as revolting

details of vice and crime, will gradually come to an
end."

Lady Stella had been rather silent all this evening.
Whether she thought any of the remarks made
involved personal condemnation of her own tastes
and speeches, or whether she was going cordially
with the chief speaker, and secretly longing to rise
out of that lower atmosphere which he condemned,
was not then made known on the house-tops.

Post hoc is certainly not always equivalent to
propter hoc, as the sagacious Faculty of Medicine
truly declare. And although post hoc (i.e., after
those last conversations in which Dayrell unfolded
his views on religious topics and on missionary enterprise
to Lady Stella) " the course " neither of
theological and philosophical discussion, nor '' of truelove
" did again " run smooth " with the self-opinionated
young persons who were chiefly concerned
therein, we must admit that we are not
prepared to say this lamentable result was by any
means propter hoc, Alas, the causes of disagreement
lay far deeper than one or two conversations
could have caused — though it might intensify
them.

It must be admitted that Lady Stella was not an
easy person to understand, though certainly neither
was Wilfrid Dayrell, at that time, one of the persons
best fitted for the difficult task. No — she was not
easy to comprehend. So charming, yet so changeable
so clever and so capricious — so tender-hearted and
womanly, yet liable to such sudden gusts of temper
and then again so satirical, sarcastic, witty, delightful
and cruel — is it any wonder that even a

devoted and constant lover like Dayrell should at
last have given up the riddle in despair?

No — not any wonder — only a proof of his
dense stupidity and his ignorance of woman," says
some wise and experienced maiden lady. Well,
let us grant Dayrell's stupidity. At all events he
could not understand, in fact, did not know, enough
of that complicated problem, woman's nature, to be
aware that his beloved might seem very satirical
and sarcastic, even bitter and defiant, in the course
of a theological or philosophical controversy, and yet
all the time love him as truly as ever — might even
be yielding to his arguments, and perhaps be preparing
to embrace his views. Still less could he
imagine what was nevertheless probably true, that
a girl like Stella Faulconhurst might delight in
plaguing and tormenting him '^ to the top of his
bent " — in wounding him even in what she knew
was a vital matter with him, viz., his beautiful,
poetical, sentimental, foolish and romantic tendencies,
and yet be deeply, passionately in love with him all
the time. How far such treatment would be
judicious or safe after marriage may be questionable
; but " in the wooing " might it not have a.
salutary and piquant effect ? And how was it he
did not know that, once married. Lady Stella would
become as loving and gentle as '* Griselda the
patient " ? In the present case the results of
her treatment of her lover were rather distressing
for which of course the young man's stupidity.

rather than the lady's temper, was chiefly to
blame.

What happened, then, apparently, was on this wise.

One morning Miss Frances tripped joyously into
Mrs. Dayrell's boudoir, and informed the ladies and
the young gentleman there assembled that Lady
Stella, her aunt and herself were — " Off to London,
my dear, the day after tomorrow. Business and the
lawyers require Stella's presence — and I am so glad,
for you see the country is getting mighty dull, after
all."

Wilfrid Dayrell started at the announcement. His
mother and sisters asked various questions.

That evening Dayrell had a long and private talk
with his mother. The next morning she told her
daughters that their brother was going to London
to consult his friend the clergyman, Dr. Rivers, about
preparing either to take orders, or to go out as a
lay missionary to the Antipodes. In any case it
might be a long separation. They all knew there
was a good deal beneath the outward surface of
passing events concerning which they might not
speak ; and there was something serious, almost
solemn, as well as affectionate, in their leave-taking.
The sister who was engaged to Fred EUerslie
was the most cheerful of the party, though even
she felt the parting not a little ; but to her sister
and mother the event was as if half their life were
being taken away. Wilfrid had naturally as an only
son and brother, occupied a large place in their

affections, though his wilfulness, and often his
moody self-gentleness, when he had left school and
was at home during the University " Long vacation,"
not seldom wounded or repelled their affection. But
during the last year and a half his whole temper
and character seemed to their loving, tender hearts
to have become simply angelic, and hence to lose
him now, after the close and affectionate intimacy
that had grown and deepened during his long and
trying confinement to the sofa and the house, was
heart-breaking work. To Dayrell himself it was no
slight trial — all the more because their gentle,
steadfast love contrasted strangely with the fitful
fascinating and tormenting humours of the girl
whom he had so audaciously wooed, and who, in
return, had chained him fast to her triumphal car.

Lady Stella, once in London, was soon involved ina
round of as much mild dissipation as was consistent
with conventional etiquette. She did not
seem violently fond of it, but Frances and her aunt
mildly yet decisively promoted it, and she herself
admitted that the change and variety were doing
her good. The Professor called and was cordially
welcomed. He took them to some very delightful
scientific reunions and conversazione , improved his
opportunities, as he thought, and several other distinguished
men in both Houses of Parliament did
the same. When Stella found that Mr. Dayrell was
also in town, her aunt, at her suggestion, sought
him out and made him understand he too was

welcome. But he shrank from general society. The
atmosphere of London *' company," in particular, had
become distasteful to him. Stella never seemed at
her ease when they met, except at a quiet dinner
en famine or when she had accidentally intimated
that they would be at home and alone at luncheon,
or in the evening. But both her aunt and cousin
couldn't help noticing that while she was generally
in exuberant spirits, immensely lively, witty, and
charming in society, seasons of dejection followed,
and these quiet little conversations were the only
occasions on which she seemed to be really restful
and at peace.

Yet even these interviews were not always brooded
over by a halcyon calm. Differences of opinion on
many topics, especially religious, were as marked
and thorny as ever.

One day when Dayrell had come to luncheon the
ladies were asking him a little about his future
plans, which he admitted were shaping themselves
strongly in the Missionary direction.

Shall you have to take orders," asked Stella,
'^if you undertake such an enchanting occupation?"


I don't mean to do so," answered Dayrell rather
curtly.

Dear me," replied Stella, " I should have thought

you would be quite sorry to miss the opportunity of

vowing your unfeigned assent and consent to the 39

articles, and the Athanasian creed, and all the other

VOL. ir. 27

sublime foolery — I beg pardon, I mean doctrines
contained in the Prayer Book."

Mrs. Grrey suggested that it was because Mr. Dayrell
objected to undergoing this ceremony that he
preferred foreign missionary work as a layman, under
the London Missionary Society, to qualifying himself
for clerical duties in the Church of England at home.

** How strange," observed Lady Stella, " that a
rich living, and possible lawn sleeves in the distance,
should not have sufficient attractions to overcome
our gifted neighbour's touching and guileless penchant
for carries and cannibals." The words were
not pleasant ; but they were accompanied with so
sweet and fascinating a smile that you could hardly
resent them, even if they had been an order
for your execution. Dayrell seemed to think so fora
moment, but he did not reply, and turned the
conversation. A little later on, when the aunt and
cousin had gone for a drive in the park, leaving Stella
and Dayrell to themselves, that perplexing young
lady could not resist bantering the embryo quasi-clergyman
a little on his very saintly proclivities.
Perhaps an acute observer might have detected a
considerable amount of irritation under her apparent
gay and caustic, not to say flippant, remarks and
behaviour. Yet that did not appear manifest to
Dayrell at first. Indeed after a short interchange of
raillery and sharp playful fencing, the lady wrapped
her lover in a blissful dream of delusive happiness,
for she seemed to be warmly sympathizing

with his ardent desires, as he had now expounded
them to her, and drew him on to explain how
he ho2:)ed to unfold a new and more beautiful world
for Christianity and civilization to dwell in — far away
in the Polynesian Paradise — than could ever be hoped
for in these old polluted realms. And the lady
listened, seemingly (for a time at least) with so
much interest that at length all the mocking spirit
appeared to have been exorcised, and Dayrell felt that
the supreme moment had come when he must learn
his fate, and wring from his bewitching tyrant an
answer once for all to his prayer. He had the less
hesitation in pressing his suit, because he could not
be suspected of mercenary motives in asking the
hand of the heiress of Hurstleigh Manor since he
proposed to live on a coral island in the Pacific.

But was there ever such an absurd and romantic
proposal made to a rich and titled young lady
before ?

Probably not. But Dayrell was in earnest.

So he painted his visions of noble, self-denying,
loving, work in those far-away climes in the brightest
colours his imagination could supply — and then sat
waiting, watching, yearning for some sweet answering
words of sympathy. There could be no mistaking
his meaning. It was a prayer that she would
say her heart was with him in the beautiful and
blessed life to which he was about to consecrate
himself, and that some day when he had pioneered
the way and could offer her a home in the Coral

27—2

Isles she would share with him that work and
home.

Would it be a life-long exile, Mr. Dayrell ? "
asked the lady at length. " Would you never want
to come back to the land of your sires — never care
to see again your mother and sisters, your old
home and your old friends ? "

Indeed I should hope sometimes to return and
renew the old loves and friendships. Besides I could
be of greater use to my Gospel children in the Coral
Isles by visiting old England, and reporting progress
there, and so inducing others to come out there
also. I do not think I should ever want to live
permanently, or for long, in these worn-out social
solitudes of vice and strife, and inanity, if only — I
had one companion in — my far-away home. " Will
you dwell with me there ? "

He waited for an answer, long in vain. Lady
Stella was silent as far as words go, though her
face was eloquent with smiles and blushes. Then
she began quoting a stanza from " Childee Harold,"
which in happier days Dayrell knew she had heard
him read with no slight sympathy and interest. To
Wilfrid himself it was full of almost sacred beauty,
partly from its associations with her former regard
for him, and yet more because in conjunction with
its companion stanzas, it always touched deep
springs of romantic emotion and imagination in his
secret soul. There was also a charm in the thought,
whenever he was admiring greatly any of Lord

B3rron's writings, that lie was being drawn nearer to
his beloved, as well as into closer spiritual union
and affection with the great poet himself. So his
heart beat high with hope as he heard the lady
softly murmur — " Is not this what you mean ? —

•"Oh that the desert were my dwelling-place
With one fair Spirit for my minister!
That I might all forget the human race,
And, loving no one, hate most chiefly her ' —

"I beg pardon," exclaimed the lady hastily and
with mock humility, seeing the look on the young
man's face, "I made a mistake. I should have
said :

'And hating no one, love Lut only her! '"

But the smile that came over her face as she
proceeded, struck an ominous chill to his heart.

Those words remind me," she said, " of such a
pretty little poem by a poet of the last century,
which I learnt years ago. It exactly suits your
South-sea bubble. I can't remember it all, but the
first and last verses were these :

' Oh would that Love had power to raise

A little Isle for us alone,
With lovely flowers and sunny rays,

The blue sea-waves its guardian zone.
No other steps should ever press

This hidden Eden of the heart,
And we would share its loveliness —

From every other thing apart.
♦ * ♦ * ♦

I thought thus of the flowers, the Moon,

A fairy isle for you and me,

And then I thought how very soon,
How very tired we should be.

Of course they laughed. Who could help it ? But
there was a forced and bitter tone in Dayrell's
laugh.

"Xow my dear Mr. Wilfrid," said the lady with
that same bewitching smile that he once thought
would have beguiled any man, even if not desperately
in love with her, out of all just, or even unjust, resentment
at her intolerable vagaries, " don't be vexed.
You want to go and be a missionary in Samoa or
the Tonga Islands. Why not then write that verse
(Byron's version, not mine) for an amulet, wear it
next your heart, go away to the ' desert ' of Polynesia,
and find your ' one fair Spirit ' in some 
coloured beauty with lovely eyes whom
you'll easily persuade "to 'minister' to you, while
you minister to the equally delightful dusky brethren
and sisters around (but not too near) you ?
You know that book of travels said the women had
the most beautiful eyes in the world. You can preach
and baptize in some Samoan Jordan, or in blue coral
lagoons, — where sharks come not, — when the spirit
moves you, and at all other times you can sit in
the shade with your ministering spirit, and eat
bread-fruit, or the lotos, and drink ' cava ' and coo
like turtle-doves. Oh, you'll be as happy as the
lovely little humming-birds that will surround you
a very suitable simile — for truly, I think, it will
be all a hum. . . ."

Stella didn't appear quite to know how to leave off.
For her lover did not laugh, but then he did not
seemed to be teased or annoyed, and this (especially
the latter phenomenon) disconcerted her — for
(as Macaulay's schoolboy knows much better thana
good deal of the learning that great essayist attributed
to him) there's no fun in teasing a fellow
if he isn't teased, i.e., doesn't mind it.

Ah — yes — exactly so," replied Dayrell. " You
used to like some of the third Earl of Shaftesbury's
writings, I think — the author of ' Characteristics ' ? "

Yes. They were so delightfully sceptical," replied
Stella, with affected nonchalance. " Does he
recommend young men to undertake missionary
work in the Cannibal islands ? "

"Don't you remember a fine essay, I think it
was by him," resumed Dayrell, " on the question
whether Ridicule is a Test of Truth ? "

Can't say I do, distinctly. What answer does
he give ? I am interested."

"Rather, I should think," replied Dayrell in
the same hard tone. " Well, he, or somebody
else, says that it is a test if the thing or the person
can't stand the ridicule, survive it, and live it down,
which it won't if the ridicule is drawn from the
nature of the thing itself ridiculed. But if the
ridicule is brought from the outside and cast upon
the victim as an alien, foreign importation, then,"
here Dayrell rose, straightened himself up, and
added in a slightly defiant tone, " then the ridicule

recoils on the person who emits it," having
delivered himself of which oracular opinion he
bowed low, shook hands with a trembling grasp,
did not look in her face, and turned to go. If he
had done the first, probably he would not have done
the second. Just as he reached the door Stella
broke out singing :

' Rain, rain, go away,
And come again another day ! ' "

as we used to sing when the weather or our tempers
interfered with our childish enjoyments. But when
we grew older, we sometimes sang :

' Men, men, go away. For I see you're quite insane —
Go away and come again,
In a little brighter weather,
"When you've got your wits together.' "

But there was no answering smile on Dayrell's
disdainful face as he left the room, and he didn't
look at all as if he meant to come again, whatever
the rain might do. Well, no doubt, the lady very
naturally felt considerable repugnance to the idea
of passing the rest of her days in the Tonga islands,
even in Mr. Dayrell's company. But she also
couldn't help viewing the whole affair as supremely
ridiculous, at times. Hence she doubtless wished,
at this meeting, to banter her lover out of his
romantic folly. If, however, that was her notion
she understood as little of him as he did of her.
Alack ! how often the thought has no better father

than the wish. But in the present case the very
love she felt for the romantic missionary made it
difficult for her to understand how her raillery
could mislead and offend him. If he loved her.
she thought, half as well as she loved him, he
would rather enjoy it than be hurt. Might she
not have a little fun ? Yet it was evident he
had left in high dudgeon. Had not this, however,
happened more than once before ? Is it not written
a wise man (or woman) may do a foolish thing
once, but only a fool twice ?

"I do not say in my haste*' remarked Stella as
she heard the front door bang, " that * all men are
liars,' but I have a growing conviction that the
majority of them are fools."

No doubt. But what about the women ? Are
they all, or at least always, wise ?

Lady Stella at that moment may have had some
doubts on this point. But just then there came a
loud double knock, and she saw her aunt and
Frances alighting from the carriage — otherwise
the smile that had overspread her face as she
curtseyed a haughty farewell to her retreating lover
might have been replaced by what she did not at
all intend they should witness.

When Lady Stella that night had dismissed her
maid she sat down to write at her Davenport, and
in order to restrain an angry and passionate burst
of temper summed up her reflexion ere she retired
to rest, in the foUowinsf fashion :

Yes — yes — it is best we should part. . . .
He murmured something, I remember, about how
long he had deeply loved, and — worshipped me. .

. I believe it is true. . I too have
known what it is to worship a fellow-creature — one
with high and noble aspirations, full of yet nobler
purposes, inspired with the force and fire of genius.

. . And I know, too, in what all that ends.
While I thought I could help him, and nurse him,
and cheer hour . . ." but the hand that was
writing trembled, and the page was blotted. Presently
she began adam :

Wilfrid — dear Wilfrid — you think me far better,
nobler than I am. You are deceived by this false
mirage of love — as so many wiser folks, myself included,
have been — and if we were more to each
other than we are now, your eyes, at all events, would
soon be opened ; you would be cruelly, fatally ,
and then we should both go straightaway
to the Valley of Gehenna, or Hell, as that hateful
clergyman called it in his funeral sermon at
Hurstleigh, ' where the worm of Remorse diet not,
and the fire of vain miserable longing is not quenched.'
. Ah, for once a clergyman gave a warning as
true as it was terrible, though he knew it not.
Would that I could say, ' Grod help me.' "

Poor Wilfrid also had much more than a
mauvais quart heure " after that exciting conversation
in Portman Square, while rambling aimlessly
in Kensington Gardens, and, in fact, during

every hour till he was in bed and asleep, which
was not till long past midnight. During those
melancholy hours he quite settled that his love for
Lady Stella had become a hopeless and mischievous
affair, and that he must abandon the beautiful dream
of ever calling her his wife. He further fully resolved
that he would start for New Zealand or the
Friendly Isles by the first ship that was about to
sail. Whether if he had understood Lady Stella's
curiously complex character better, it would have
materially altered the conclusion he came to that
evening, may be open to question ; because the predominant
feeling in his mind at last was a sense
of the intolerable and radical discrepancy, not to
say antagonism, which existed between this charming,
beautiful, witty, satirical witch and himself.
Perhaps if he had been of a more robust moral
and physical temperament, he could have preserved
his own individuality, his romantic, passionate,
tender and loving idiosyncrasies, and yet have enjoyed,
nay, revelled, in his mistress's playful sarcasm,
and even in her biting wit. But perhaps,
again, that would have supposed him to be one of
those exceptional characters that appear only at
very rare intervals. Cervantes, for instance, when
of mature age would have intensely enjoyed such
fooling, but not when young. It is only when the
sensitive poetic organization of genius has been
made robust by discipline and trial, purified by fire,
and perfected, some would add, by the strength

which is from above that such appreciation is possible.
Wilfrid Dayrell had certainly not yet arrived at that
stage. And he was all the more determined that
he must finally abandon this dream of Love in proportion
as he felt the misery of such a parting, because
that misery was the measure of his danger. It was,
he thought, the instinct of self-preservation — of preserving
his higher and better nature. For he could
not but feel, now that he was recovering health
and strength, and the power of enjoying all that
money, youth, and the world could give, that it was
a very different thing bidding himself, " Love not
the world," and go into exile, renounce all that informer
days he had most valued — cultivated society,
art, literature, music, the pursuit of fame, the companionship
of dear relatives, above all, as it now
proved, the love of that woman whom he had so
long and passionately adored — a very different thing,
indeed, wrenching himself away from all these noir,
and only resolving to renounce the (civilized) world
and its joys when he was on a bed of sickness and
pain. But why could he not live that self-denying
life at home — find his "America" (Polynesia), (like
Lothario, in Wilhelm Meister,) " here " at Aldclyffe
Priory ? Because a, b, c must come before d, e, f.
How could he pass the " Sixth Standard " till he
had reached the " Third " ? It might be, as other
persons (and as he well knew she) thought, that
he was under a mere fanatical delusion ; but he also
thought he knew — and, at all events, felt in every

nerve and fibre, body and soul — that if he threw
up his present purpose, cast to the winds his fanaticism
or folly, let himself be laughed out of the
purest, deepest, most unselfish passion, however
mistaken in its methods, which he had ever cherished,
there was thenceforth for him only an ignoble,
worldly, self-indulgent, and therefore self-despising
life. In that belief also he might be mistaken.
But while it was his belief, a conviction of conscience,
and of his whole heart and soul, clearly it
would have been a fatal piece of treachery to act
in opposition thereunto. Only in the might of that
desire by which he was consumed to bring the
blessings of religion and Christian civilization to
the present dwellers in the beautiful, peaceful world
of the Pacific isles — only in the strength of the
enthusiasm he now felt for the life which might
be lived by thousands of his suffering fellow-countrymen
in that fresh, unworn, innocent world, free
from the terrible complications and disgusting degradation
of the old world — could he consecrate his life
to realizing any of his romantic and generous dreams.

But at all this 'fiddle-faddle" Lady Stella remorselessly
mocked. Did she do so because in her
heart she truly believed his dreams a mere iridescent
bubble which it were a kindness to him to
prick — or merely for " the fun of the thing," and
because she thought it teased him ? He knew
not ; and in his present exalted enthusiasm, perhaps
hardly cared. For in either case he had no resource

but sternly to trample down " the adversary,"
the Satan, that would beguile or jeer him
from his path. All the old worry was coming back
again, but bringing consequences, if he did not
resolutely resist her, which would have been fatal
alike to what he believed to be his higher life, and
to his lofty purpose.

Did it then never occur to him that if his beloved
could only realize that he was now, by her
conduct, plunged into a deeper abyss of misery than
when he lay on his bed of pain, she would once
again become all that she had been to him then ?
Had he never read the lines :

woman, coy and hard to please,
Provoking in our hour of ease —
Let pain or anguish wring the brow,
A ministering angel thou I "

Ah, if in that last interview he had but " greatly
dared" — taken that sweet tormentor in loving embrace
to his heart, poured out all the madness of
his misery and the fervour of his love, might they
not have once more been united, never to be parted
again, at least not " broken-hearted," neither in the
"gloaming" of life, or the "dawning" of Eternity?

Yet this possibility was hidden from his eyes —
which is not so very strange. Do not even married
lovers sometimes go through life hoodwinked, blindfolded
to the things which would make for their
mutual confidence, their deepest earthly joy and
peace ?

It is, then, hardly to be wondered at if Dayrell
now came to the conclusion that the girl he had
long ardently loved, and, in a very real sense, worshipped,
had no real deep attachment to, or sympathy
with, him — that, in short, they were radically unfitted
to make each other happy and to be companions
for life. All that he could give her of what
was best and worthiest in himself would be of little
or no value in her eyes ; and he felt he should
gain from her neither inspiration, strength, or joy
in the work to which he had consecrated himself —
no, nor in the hour of rest any abiding peace, or
even steadfast love.

That by renouncing his attachment to this brilliant
Silver-Star Queen he could in any but the slightest
degree affect her happiness never entered his head.
Presumption so great, had he entertained that idea,
could, he thought, be paralleled only by a belief
that

The desire of the moth for the star,"

or even for the gas-chandelier, and the heart-broken
despair of that unhappy cremated insect, could possibly
exert any injurious influence either on the
far-off radiant orb, or the chandelier. Yet that
*^ superior " and discerning maiden lady above referred
to might have differed from Wilfrid Dayrell
in opinion, and have told him that his folly could
be paralleled only by that profound ignorance of
woman's nature which alone could make him believe

it impossible that his decision might permanently
affect the lady's happiness.

But there was no such beneficent and " unappropriated
blessing " then at hand to enlighten him.

The Right Hon. James Ellerslie, M.P., father of
DayrelFs Oxford chum, had a spacious mansion in
Belgravia, and his wife had asked Wilfrid to spend
a few days with them before sailing — as Fred explained
"just to drive dull Care away." One fine
evening Dayrell was sitting in his friend's study with
his head in his hands, in a reverie of mingled cynicism
and sadness, when Fred, serenely cheerful and
triumphant, came in from a lawn-tennis party to
which Dayrell had stubbornly refused to go, and
chaffed the misanthropic young missionary on his
decidedly dejected appearance.

I say, Mr. Wilfrid, what a splutter you seem to
be making all about nothing. What on earth is
there worth fretting about." Dayrell answered only
by a heavy sigh, and Fred responded by humming
a favourite ditty —

Ah me, what cares afflict the good,
Like little babies in the wood,
There's nothing here but what us grieves
Until we're covered o'er with leaves. "

Don't be so absurd I " exclaimed Dayrell ; " I'm
in a rage."

Just so," replied his friend. " And Folly's good
VOL. n. 28

for that complaint. What if you've had a little tiff,
amantium iron, &c., as we learned at school. . . ."

Gro to the devil, Fred ! I am miserrimiis"
groaned Dayrell.

There you go again ! " responded Ellerslie magisterially.
"I say, old fellow, you'll have some real
grievance sent you, if you make such a fuss about
trifles. Dancer know ladies in love change their
moods and tempers, as well as their dresses, a dozen
times a day?"

Dayrell rose and walked restlessly about, then made
for the door. Ellerslie went towards him, took him
gently by the arm, and led him back to his seat —
saying, "I beg pardon, my much-injured Benedick.
You have some reason no doubt for a fit of the
blues.' I shouldn't wonder that if you hadn't more
pluck than a dozen of us, you'd throw up the sponge,
and take a header from Waterloo Bridge."

If it don't come to that," answered Dayrell, " I
guess it's not your chaff that will save me. A little
sympathy's better. There's nothing like a fellow-feeling
for another, Fred, as the blind man said
when the policeman came after him in the dark.
But I shall be much better when I get out of
this detestable climate, and have all your blessed
brotherly kindness to think over. Ah, Fred, it'll
warm the cockles of my heart when I'm *far, faraway.'
"

"English climate, I grant, is scarcely perfect," rejoined
Ellerslie. "But I thought you had resolved

on giving up that wretched habit of looking at the
Universe with jaundiced eyes."

*•' Yes, of course," replied Wilfrid. *' But it is an
infernal climate — so arranged, no doubt, to manufacture
heroes and saints like you ; but still a climate
in which, in many parts, and for at least 265 days
in the year, people are happy only when they have
just taken * a nip,' or ' a gill,' or strong tea or coffee,
which is only another form of dram-drinking — or
when they are smoking, which is only another form
of opium-eating."

G-et out with your rubbish ! " cried Ellerslie,
*' you're bilious-melancholy-mad."

"And the temporary elation," continued Dayrell
unmoved, "is followed by a corresponding depression
till the next dose — whereas in the South Sea islands,
the climate makes mere existence a happiness, and
the want of stimulants and narcotics, and headers
from Waterloo Bridge quite unnecessary."

Dayrell," said Fred with unwonted gravity, " your
longing for external conditions of happiness is greater
than your sentiments of affection for your friends.
There may be truth in all that you have just been
grating about, but we are not all going straight away
to Samoa. Do you not think it is a scandalous
betrayal of friendship to be hooking it just when
my wedding is coming off, please G-od, and there
isn't a rapscalhon in all England whom I could bear
to have as my best-man except yourself ? "

Ah," said Dayrell with a profound sigh, " that

is the one bright spot in this miserable world. But
Heaven defend me from having to witness your, or

any other man's, wedding until Hullo! what's

that?"

A loud rap at the front door was followed by almost
as loud a remonstrance from the hall-porter.
Presently a footman entering said that two men
wanted to see Master," and wouldn't go away.

Are they begging, Thomas ? "

No, Sir, I think not. They said they only wanted
to leave some tracts, and have a little talk with the
master. But they are rather a rough-looking lot.
Sir — and it seems to me," continued the man looking
out of the window, "as if there were a whole
party of 'em just round the corner."

"I say, here's a lark, Dayrell. Show them both
in. I suppose we're a match for them if we should
want to ' chuck ' them out."

The two men were admitted — behaved with a severe
simplicity and respectful courtesy for which the young
gentlemen were not quite prepared by the men's garb
and general appearance. One of them, however,
seemed considerably more educated than the other.
On being asked to take seats they explained that
they had been deputed by a number of working men
at the East End of London to leave tracts at the
houses of rich men in the West End, advocating Land
Nationalization, certain forms of Socialism, and various
immediate social reforms for the relief of the unemployed.
They were also directed to question those

on whom they called (where possible) as to their
views on these topics, and to give them a little instruction
concerning their duties to the working
classes. Also to inquire whether they ever attended
meetings of working men at the Hall of Science, or
at any Working men's Clubs on a Sunday evening
when discussions on these subjects were taking place.
The young gentlemen were at first immensely amused,
but soon became not a little interested, especially
Dayrell, by the earnest simplicity and homely pathos
with which the men urged the necessity for the rich
folks taking some decided steps for remedying the
present miserable state of things. "It can't go on
as it is, much longer, gentlemen," said one of the
men. " We don't want to threaten, and we don't
come, and we aren't sent here, to threaten. But we
want you to believe that something must be done,
and then to read and think over the remedies as
we proposes, and if you've any objections to 'em,
and any better plans to set up in their place, come
on, and let's hear 'em. Come to our meetings and
talk it all out like men — fair and square."

What you say," replied Ellerslie, " seems reasonable
enough, and I'll try and get my father to read
your tracts, as well as look at them myself. I
daresay my sisters have done a little in tract distributing
among poor folks, and one good turn deserves
another."

That 'ere's just what we all say," remarked one
of the men.

I can't say I think the governor is very
likely'' continued EUerslie, " to go either to the
Hall of Science or to one of your Working-men's
Clubs, but you may depend upon it if you leave
me your address, I'll look you up the first opportunity
and pitch into you all round, and take
my punishment in return with the greatest possible
satisfaction. There, will that please you ? "

The men were evidently both surprised and gratified
; and having written down their address were
rising to go, when Dayrell interposed, saying :

One minute ; I've been about among your East-end
dwellings lately, and I know the need of some
great change. I don't say that I'd go in for Land
Nationalization, as I haven't got to the bottom of
the question yet, though I believe that in some
shape you'll all, rich and poor, have to come to
that business at last, though there should be fair
compensation. Yet after all, gentlemen, you know
•a contented mind is a perpetual feast'"

Yes, Sir," replied one of the men, " and I have
also heard it said that *a contented hind is a perpetual
beast.' "

EUerslie laughed and observed in a stage whisper
to his friend, " serves you right. The idea of your
preaching contentment ! "

True," replied Dayrell, turning to the man who
spoke last. '' But I wanted to say that my grandfather
who was heir to a large land-holder would
have met you more than half way, and I only wish

I were one, myself, for your sakes. I haven't got a
foot of land of my own, but before I leave England
I'll speak to my mother who owns the Aldclyffe
Priory estate, and ask her to do something down
there to help you up here. If I can, I'll run down
there myself before I go abroad. But what shall
that something be ? "

Well, Sir, that's very good of you, I will say,
and the worthy lady may do a good deal if she likes."

As how ? "

Why haven't you heard talk of these Industrial
Villages ? That's the thing to relieve distress and
empty our beastly crowded dens at the East End.
Bring back the people to the land — give 'em work
to do on the labour-starved fields, and make the
villages once again ring with the noise of industry
in working hours and with a little jollity when
work's done. That's what the good folks are driving
at, Jem, when they talk about Industrial Villages,
isn't it?" He had heard them speak of it till he
had got their phrases nearly by heart.

Aye, that's about the size of it, mate," chimed
in his companion, " and your respected mother. Sir,
could do a deal you see to help on that work, by
letting the committee have a fine bit of land for
the starting on it — all the better if she has got
a number of cottages ready built and half-empfcy.
May be she has, Sir. There's a many villages nowadays
nigh tumbling down for want o' folks to live

Right you are, my man ! " exclaimed Darrell
You may rely on my doing all I can for you before
I go, and I'm very glad we've met."

So am I, Sir," — said the other man who had
not taken much part in the conversation — "for you
seem straightforward enough — at least as far as words
go. But as you've something to do with the land,
I'd like to know what business you gentlemen
and all you land-owners, and house-owners, and the
folks who live in all these 'ere fine houses, have to
be taking your rents regular, and never caring a
button about the poor beggars whore working like
slaves, year in year out, to earn both your living' and
their own besides. Seems to us, gentlemen, you're all
uncommon keen after what you call your property
rights, but devil a bit do you think much about your
property duties. But come along, Bill. "We've lots
more swells to call on to-night."

"Seems to us," said Ellerslie, "you working men
care just as much about your rights, and look as
sharp after your rents if you get the chance, through
a Building Society, as we do."

Aye, aye," replied the man, " but your class
have made the laws in your own favour — and the
masters grind us all down when they dare, and the
women, heaven help 'em ! are the worst off of all,
poor devils — and London landlords and their agents
are old Nick himself. And then see how the
factories and the workshops are crammed into London
and we have to live near by, and hundreds of thousands

of us living in one room — a regular hell on
earth, it is, I can tell you, Master . . " The man
paused a minute, for he felt he was getting excited,
then continued, *' but mind — we don't go agen
property — not all on us. The Socialists want, maybe,
to see everything belong to the State, though I'm
blessed if I know what that is — but most on us only
want to see them as has got property caring a little
more about their fellow-creatures. Parson says we're
all brothers — "

Christ says so," interjected his companion, who
was a Methodist local preacher.

"Well, well, Christ then. The gentlefolks and
ladies talk a deal about him and make a lot of fuss
about him ; but I'm hanged if they seem to mind
much what he says. You two gentlemen, may be
brothers for all I know, and I repose at least you
know how brothers should treat one another — and
when you go to church you say ' Our Father in
heaven ' ever so many times. Xow do you think
you treat us like brothers ? eh ? "

Neither Dayrell nor EUerslie seemed prepared
with a satisfactory reply, but promised to give the
question full consideration, and shook hands heartily
with the men on parting — Dayrell adding, " Good
evening and God's blessing be with you."

What was all that about ? " said Dayrell when his
friend returned from showing his visitors to the door.

Oh, I wanted them to cab it home at my cost
and charges, for I said they must be ' tarnation '

tired — but they were offended, cut up rough, and
I had to apologize. But by George, they thrust
home ! . . I say, Dayrell, isn't your mission work
cut out for you much nearer home than the South
Seas ? "

Yes, it would be if I could remain in England
now, and above ground. But if I tried it on, I
should only be found some morning, stark and cold
in my bed from an over-dose of chloral the night
before."

I know — I know what you mean*' said Ellerslie,
to whom Dayrell had given a hint respecting his
present relations to Lady Stella. " It's a deuced
bad job altogether and I can't tell you how sorry I
am you are so cut up about it. . . Well, you
know I think you carry things in the theological
direction too far. Of course I don't hold altogether
with Lady Stella in her Agnostic fads. . . As your
sister says, I believe you are nearer the truth than
she is. . . But after all what does it matter ? "

What does it matter ? " asked Dayrell sternly.

"I mean, much matter," said Fred. *but you
are always in extremes, my dear Quixote."

"And you, I fear, my noble Sancho," answered
Dayrell, ** are ' content to dwell in decencies forever.'
But let us change the subject. You understand,
I know, why I can't remain in England.
Would to Grod I could! for the sake of all those
poor serfs in their wretched holes on the Priory
estate, and at the 'least End. But you know as well

as I do 7 can! And my mother I'm sure will do
something down there. . . You'll help her, won't
you. She'll want masculine administration and legal
advice. Then there's the mistress of a neighbouring
Manor. She promised me to set about re-building
cottages. Perhaps you could gently lead her onto
importing Village Industries — or even to starting
a Co-operative Farm ! But Tutti at the end of my
tether. I can't stay here. Besides don't you see it
must come to the Friendly Isles at last. If Charles
Dayrell, whilom graduate of Oriel, were living now,
depend upon it he would say that's the place for
realizing the grand Bacchantic legend, the true
Christian worship, and life of Love and Joy, Brotherhood,
Beauty, and Peace ! But he is living now, by
St. Boniface ! and is telling me day and night to goto
Polynesia, and vowing that never in these great
wildernesses of brick and mortar and all their foul
sights and sounds, and villainous wickedness, and
intolerable suffering, can it be right to let men,
women, and children live. These Industrial Villages,
I believe, may turn out to be splendid contrivances,
but only a stop-gap, mind — or rather a first-rate
bridge over to the Coral Isles, whither I must goto
help make ready for the new Pilgrim Fathers.
The tyranny of King Charles drove the Puritan
saints to New England — and the tyranny of a
capitalist plutocracy, or of heartless land-owners, or
it may be of King Demos himself, may drive the
proletariat saints of the 20th century with a few

sinners, I fear, among them, to the more attractive
regions of Tongatabu."

But you can't mean you are going to anchor
yourself for life in those savage climes."

"I never said that. If I find I'm doing no good
out there, I may be back in twelve months' time."

Things may look a little brighter for you, old
fellow, in a certain quarter by that time."

What with a dozen peers and M.p's, and learned
Professors at her feet! More likely that for me
that sun will have finally set, and be dazzling a
pair of fortunate eyes in a more aristocratic hemisphere.
However, under any circumstances, believe
me, my friend, I shall come back and plague you all
again, some day, even if it be only for a cannon-ball
visit."

"Well, hold up your pecker, wild Dayrell, and
never say die."

"Never, till I'm dead. And don't you think it's
worth living for, to show all honest Englishmen
what might, should, and will be done in the sunny
Isles to make human life, even Anglo-saxon life,
happy and peaceful, clean and pure and kindly-affection,
without this everlasting breach of the
Ten Commandments which curses the modern Babylon
and all its tribes ? "

"Well," remarked Ellerslie calmly, "when things
get to the worst they begin to mend.' "

"Yes," replied Dayrell. "And when they get to
their best they are very near their end. England

has been nearing its best for some time past, under
the old regiifne of aristocratic land-ownership, pluto-critic
manufacturing monopoly, abundance of all the
necessaries of life, and want of employment, destitution
— everything cheap and no money to buy —
command of all the markets of the world — fabulous
wealth of a few, unspeakable degradation and suffering
for the many — selfishness and plunder on the part
of the rich, envy, hatred, and intemperance among
the poor — magnificent expansion of empire, ships,
colonies, and commerce — that is the ' best ' (and on
the whole a very fine product) which Old England
has been able to attain under that blessed system
of King, Lords and Commons, with monopoly of land,
commercial competition, manufacturing supremacy,
and all the rest of it — so now the beautiful regime
is very near its end, and must go ! Hadn't fast
coaching got to its best when railways sent it all
to the devil ? And hadn't oak Leviathans ditto
when iron and steam left them rotting in harbour ?
and isn't every great or good man cut off just
when he is greatest and best ? Answer me, Bezonian.
Is not this old England soon to give place to a new
one ? "

Evidently," said Ellerslie, " my friend is not
long for this world. Alas, alas, — he cannot last.
He is at his best now, just perfect, and can never
be any better. Farewell, old crony. But before you
die, put these sentiments in an eloquent article for the
Contemporary Review.' It will pay for your burial."

Which, as there'll be no mourners and I desire
to be cremated, won't cost much," replied Dayrell,
and you'll see me through — for as you are a long
way from your best you are sure to survive me.
But returning to prose — let us drive on * the Revolution.'
Will it not be worth something if we merely
help to show the worries of London how much
better and happier they would be if they came out
of those detestable slums into the Industrial Villages
which those capital fellows talked of? By developing
model villages in England we shall roll them
up the inclined plane to * the abodes of the blest '
in Polynesia ; and while bringing the more advanced
and well qualified sons of toil, and the more brotherly
possessors of capital from this old country at once
to happier quarters over the sea, we shall draw the rest
of the worries by degrees to settle in sundry favoured
rural localities here, till Old England is choke-full.
By that time all parties in this island will know where
next to move for refuge, and will be prepared to
enter on the glorious inheritance which the Grreat
Father has been preparing for them through the
past ages by means of coral insects, and Christian
missionaries."

But I say, Dayrell," said his friend, " there is
one great objection to Englishmen going to live in
such an invariably charming climate. Don't you see
Providence, knowing their pugnacious and quarrelsome
disposition, has mercifully arranged all this
variable weather and detestable climate, as you

were pleased to call it just now, that they might
have something to talk about into which political, religious,
and social party spirit cannot possibly intrude ?
A common ground, warranted safe for discussion."

"Pugnacious, Englishmen may be — not quarrelsome,
and always friendly and good-tempered in a
good climate. But, oh my cynical and ' much-wisdom'
Ulysses, I pray you do believe that Polynesia
is a better, happier home for our toiling millions
than London, Liverpool, Manchester, and the workhouse
! aye, and better than living with all their
families in single rooms and gin-palaces ! Let me
make one convert before I go. i)o."

By George, you almost equal Peter the Hermit,
my dear fellow, in enthusiastic Quixotism."

"Hush-abby, baby. The New Crusade shall be
more satisfactory than the old ones. And at all
events these horrible London piastres must be
destroyed and the wretched dwellers therein be
brought forth out of the infernal Bastille in
which they have too long been incarcerated —
crushed and rotting there in order forsooth that they
might be ' near their ivory ' — (your visitor hit the
mark there !)— just to keep up profits for their
masters who take good care themselves to live a long
way from their work. I tell you, we want another
English or French Revolution— not so bloody as
Hampden's and Cromwell's, nor exactly like Danton's
and Robespierre's — but quite as decisive. In fact
the whole idea of a city of four or five millions

of people is a frightful mistake. London must
be broken up — an earthquake or an insurrection,
foreign conquest, or a general exodus, would doit.
The old Eoman battle-cry, adapted to modern
warfare, must be raised again and all true social
reformers must join in shouting ' Delendum est
Longinus ! ' "

*' Ah, well — it is becoming painfully evident, my
dear old boy," said Ellerslie mournfully, "that
you had better cut and run — and quickly — to the
South Seas or where you please, if you wish to
avoid a writ de lunatico inquii^endo"

"No doubt. But remember — or if you never yet
learned history, for you wouldn't do as I advised
and come out in the History tripos — learn now that
the madness of to-day is often the salvation of
tomorrow. Lest, however, I be imprisoned in an
asylum, or be sent to penal servitude *for sedition
and murder,' I mean to go on my travels forthwith,
and may return some day in milder and
more selfish mood''

His friend by way of reply merely pressed Dayrell's
hand warmly and looked in his face with
unwonted and earnest sympathy, then left the room
to dress for dinner, saying nothing. Then, as if
ashamed of being sentimental, even for a momentary
aberration, he put his head in at the door again,
and said, " Talking of hansom cabs, Dayrell, which I
was just now, what's the difference between a
hansom and a tiger ? "

"Don't know. Both are infernally dangerous."

Aye, but one is most so when full, the other
when empty. Come and get ready. Englishmen are
generally ferocious before dinner, and I think Canning
once said that the Germans eat a great deal
in affliction. Come along."

Fred believed in the medicinal virtue of '• chaff."
But his heart ached for his friend, for he knew that
behind all that vehement talk concerning social
wrongs and their remedies, Dayrell was wrestling
with almost the greatest sorrow (apart from wrongdoing)
a young man can know. And if ever
Fred Ellerslie prayed at all, he certainly did that
night for his unhappy friend that he might return
to England in six months' time and find his ladylove
in a consenting mood, " with this new philanthropic
fad of Industrial Villages well to the fore,
patronized by Dukes and seized on by ^ City men.' "

To mere mortal ken it would certainly have-seemed
a wonderful blessing to all concerned if
that prayer could have then been granted. But
the first portion could not rise in Dayrell's heart.
He knew " the great gulf " that was " fixed " between
him and such a consummation. So he went
down to the Priory with a resolute purpose of
taking a final leave of his family and sailing at
once for Polynesia.

During the three or four days, however, which
he spent at his beautiful " boyhood's home," a
thought occurred to him which grew in force, even
VOL. u. 29

to painful intensity : Was he justified in thus leaving
his cruel but beloved one to bear, unaided,
the burden of her restless scepticism and strive
with the storm-demons (of unbelief) alone ? In
his burning desire to flee from his own misery,
was he not forgetting all that he most owed to
her ? Was he not bound by the new life to which
he had vowed himself, once and for ever, to remember
(among other matters) the highest interests,
the spiritual well-being, of that beloved one — loved
more deeply, still, amidst all her cruelty, than he
had ever loved any other human being ? " Spiritual
welfare." The words as he uttered them to himself
seemed a mockery when applied to Stella
Faulconhurst. Like Undine, she often appeared
to have no soul, no spiritual nature, i.e., no capacity
for apprehending or being interested in *' spiritual
things" — for "the natural man" said he to himself,
not for the first time, in the words of a wise and
eminent sage, " received not the things of the Spirit
of God : for they are foolishness unto him ; neither
can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned."
But while Paul of Tarsus might use those
words, what right had he to apply them to that
gifted being whose words and thoughts had often
helped to raise him up to a loftier sphere and who
in many things seemed so immeasurably above him ?
Did not that very fact disprove, belie, the thought
he had just uttered? might he not once more venture
to appeal to that faculty which alone can

respond to the divine touch — appeal to the soul within
her, which might be slumbering, but could not be dead ?

Thoughts like these may indeed be regarded by
some, perhaps many, as wild, or arrogant, in the
extreme. Yet Wilfrid Dayrell never felt more intensely
humble, more self-distrustful, more reliant
solely on a Higher power, than now — which might,
however, not be saying much.

While " he mused, the fire burned," and at length he
resolved to send her in a farewell letter, some idea of
the influences and motives which compelled him to leave
England at once, and not attempt to meet her again.

As for the lady herself no doubt she scarcely
realized, or did not trouble herself to see, how
deeply, all but irreparably, her lover had been
wounded and repelled by her behaviour. Had she
known of the resolve he formed after their last parting,
and that that meeting might be the one
chance offered them of '' repairing the breach," the
result might have been different. But it will be
best to let Dayrell now say in his own words what
he wrote to Stella, for it appears that he had continued
at intervals, ever since his accident, to write
a few notes in what he called his diary.

Extract from Wilfrid DayreWs Diary.

'^ After telling her in my letter that I was at

length convinced I had better leave England, at

least for a time, and not return till I should no

longer be tortured by vain hopes of our becoming

29—2

one in heart and soul — after confessing that I still
loved her far too deeply to remain near her while
yet in this miserable state of antagonism, I went onto
say what I told her was my last word regarding
the influences and motives that had led to my
present missionary step, and had made me long so
intensely to have her sympathy and approval intaking
it. Now I suppose all this helped as she
herself had said to me in earlier days, to bring out
some of the ' merry devil ' in her, a part of her
character which I never understood till years after.
I didn't comprehend the kitten-like love of play
which is a constituent element of girl-nature. She,
sometimes, seemed actually to enjoy tormenting me,
and to delight in seeing how much she vexed, even
tortured, me by her sarcasms and what in any one
else would have been sneers. It was merely the
love of power, I then supposed — the same thoughtless
but cruel instinct which makes boys torment
dumb animals or insects, and each other, for sport
an instinct which, I know too well, I had
strongly enough as a school-boy. But how one so
gracious, loving, tender-hearted could be possessed
by that kind of devil I couldn't understand; and
now it made me feel more than ever I had better
tear myself altogether away from the cruel beautiful
sorceress. I wondered whether Coleridge was going
to pourtray anything of this kind when he began
describing the Lady Geraldine in * Christened.' But
I was only a blind buzzard after all."

Doubtless it was a generous, even if fool-hardy attempt
on the part of this modern Perseus to deliver his
beautiful Andromeda fi'om the rock whereunto he
believed she was chained, in deadly peril. Had
this last appeal succeeded, and had they been
willing to sink all their religious differences, until
they had lived and worked together in conjugal
and Christian love, who can say that they might
not only have come to an agreement in all they
thought essential doctrines and belief, and lived
together then in lifelong happiness, but have been
the means of bringing a wonderful amount of joy
and " soundness " (both moral and material) into
the lives of thousands besides. They could have
made the homes and lives of all the labourers on
the Manor and Priory estates " blossom as the rose "
they could have made many a moral wilderness
glad for them," and have caused much " sorrow
and sighing to flee away'' Might not all this have
been a true and consecrated *' Worship of Joy?"
*****

The volcano is active," said Ellerslie one evening,
soon after Dayrell's letter had been received by
Lady Stella, on returning from that lady's house,

where lie had been to meet Ellen Dayrell. "And
jparva componere nnagnis — it might at any
moment — " Yes, of course it might. Nevertheless,
it appears from Wilfrid's diary the rash unhappy
man could not help going near Vesuvius once
again.

*alas, alas," said Ellerslie, when they next met,
to his fiancee, with an amount of poetic diction
which surprised her as much as it did himself, but
which he said he could account for only by his
being so much in love with her, "your excellent and
beloved brother hath, I fear, too closely resembled
those faint and starving soldiers mentioned in the
Hebrew chronicle, who, filled with raging hunger,
flew on the hives of poisonous honey, and gave up
the ghost amid the maddening sweetness of their
fatal repast. Well, well — Woman is a wonderful
institution."

Ellen Dayrell was much impressed by this description
; but thought her lover had got a little
"mixed" in his historical recollections, though she
didn't say so till she had looked for the passage
in the Bible — in vain, however, not having a
Concordance.

Dayrell seems to have had some glimmering of
danger, for he writes in his journal thus : —

"So at last, as I said, I called once more, just
to take leave — suspecting it was a mad, foolish
thing to do. But I couldn't help it, I couldn't go
away (perhaps for ever) without just saying goodbye.

I thought I was very calm and self-possessed
during the interview, for I knew that though she
had naturally a very sweet temper, it had seldom
been greatly tried, till I worried her; and so,
perhaps, she had had few opportunities of practising
self-command. Xow I had neither much self-command,
nor a morsel of sweet temper; but I fancy
the last won't wear well without the first. Besides,
I knew I had better not give way to any sentimental
passion, for her nerves had been somewhat
tried of late, and she might make a jest of it, and
then indeed her scorn would drive me mad. So,
after the usual remarks on the weather, I merely said :

"I have called to say good-bye, Lady Stella."
I thought she started and changed colour, but it
was a dull afternoon, and she sat with her back to
the light. Presently she replied very coolly :

Indeed. Where are you going to ? "

To the Antipodes. I may be gone only a few
months, or — years. When I come back, perhaps
you may see the things we have talked about — "

Stella rose hastily, and exclaimed, " No, no — for
pity's sake, if you love me, if you have any pity on
yourself, never come back to England again — at least
till I'm dead I " Then she seemed to be leaving the
room, but turned and walked hastily to the window.
Scarcely knowing what I did, I caught her hand,
saying something about might I not hope that intime
she would see some things in a different
light, and that we might yet worship together —

and trust — and love. I have no clear recollection
of what followed, but I know she snatched away
her hand, and taunted me with my weakness and
credulity — declared she never could care for a man
given up, as I was, to all those wretched superstitions.
. . . When I replied with some heat and
indignation, she vehemently exclaimed, " I cannot
bear this ! Leave me — instantly — I cannot bear the
sight of you ! " Good knows my darling did not
mean what, at the moment, I thought she did
. . my scar. I know now it was only one of
her passionate outbursts, and I believe she never
loved me so truly as in that hour. . . . Ah
me ! I knew too late it was just because she loved
me that she was so exceeding wroth with me. . .
Leave you ! " I said, '' Yes — I will go."

And I went — straight to the East India Docks,
secured a berth on board a fine New Zealand (sailing)
vessel, which I had before selected, and then down to
Aldclyffe Priory — took leave of my dear mother and
sisters, charging my mother to do all she could for
the labourers on the estate, and to give my parting
farewell to Stella. It was heart-breaking work, fora
heavy shadow rested on us all; and though to
cheer them up I said I should be back in ten
months, strong as Hercules after my sea-voyage, we
had a presentiment that it might be a much longer
time before we should all meet again.

So ended Wilfrid Dayrell's missionary experiments
in England.

As for the lady herself, on whom he had been
trying his apostolic powers, he did not know that
when he left her house she went up to her room,
locked the door, and wept as only a woman can
weep who has rejected, with scorn, the man she
loves best in the world.

A few days later her lover was on board the
trim-built clipper " Southern Queen," dropping down
in the dusk with the tide to the More. As they
passed the Tilbmy Docks, a skiff, rowed by two
men, was lying in wait for them. One of the
two boarded the vessel, while the other rowed back
to shore.

Dayrell," said Ellerslie reproachfully, as his friend
came forward, " you shouldn't have left without seeing
me again."

What, you here, Fred ! " exclaimed Dayrell.
"True and staunch friend. This is like you, and
very kind. But I couldn't bear to go near you
again in London. I meant to write to you and
send it ashore at Plymouth. But I'm * main glad '
to see you once more, old fellow. How far are you
going with us ? "

"Only to the North . Foreland," replied Ellerslie.

Then they sat on the poop and talked in a
disjointed way, by the light of the stars, chiefly
about Socialism and crowded London, and deserted
rural districts, and the needful remedies. And Fred
told his friend how he had been the night before
to a Working men's club, and got famously '* heckled,"

and wbiat grand fun it was. As they came within
sight of the lights of Margate, Ellerslie said, "But
you must just tell me how it went in your last
interview ? "

*' My dear fellow," replied Dayrell, " I would tell
you anything I might, could, or should tell to
mortal man, and I'll write you a line ; but this is just
what it comes to, and all I can say now — that up
and down, all over, and right through, I'm * blind,
and poor, and wretched,' and an everlasting donkey
into the bargain. But, God bless you, and all you
love."

Amen," replied Ellerslie, gulping down strong
emotion. " God bless you. Good-bye ! "

Ere the week was out Wilfrid Dayrell had taken
his last view of English shores. While standing on
the poop and scudding away towards the sunset sky,
he was cheerily humming to himself, though with a
cold chill at his heart, Childee Harold's "Farewell."

"Adieu, adieu! my native shore.
* ^ * *

"With thee, my bark, I'll swiftly go

Across the foaming trine;
Nor care what land thou bear'st me to,

So not again to mine.
"Welcome, welcome, ye dark-blue waves !

And when ^ ou fail my sight,
"Welcome ye deserts, and ye caves !

My native Land — Good Night ! '

When Mrs. Dayrell took leave of her son and received
his parting request to write to Lady Stella,
besides various entreaties concerning Village industries,
Co-operative Farms, &c., she fully intended
writing to Lady Stella immediately. But she felt
the parting very much — was confined to her room,
and unequal to any exertion for several days.

Meanwhile the young lady to whom she should
have written was wondering if her lover had really
sailed — sometimes agitated by alternate fits of remorse
and wrathful scorn — sometimes by feverish
hopes that Wilfrid Dayrell would soon come back to
ask for pardon, and to receive her confession of ill-deserving.
Then again she was harassed by fears
lest he should reappear and commence a discussion
then lest she should never see him more. In
dismal dreams she beheld his vessel wrecked and
himself floating with pale up-turned face on the
waves, his dark hair all tangled with sea-weed, his
limbs swayed hither and thither by the tossing
waves. Then she strove gallantly, not to say
fiercely and indignantly, against what she termed a
childish weakness, and clothed herself in triple
armour of pride. But each afternoon she stayed at

home ; and, in the dress she had heard him admire,
sat in the drawing-room trying to read, tapping
with a little foot impatiently on an embroidered
footstool, or receiving visitors, until all hope of one
particular visitor appearing was nearly gone.

One day, just when Mrs. Dayrell was at length
able to write the promised letter, and which was of
too delicate a nature for her to entrust to one of
her daughters, a sister of Fred Ellerslie was calling
on Lady Stella, but had to converse chiefly with
Mrs. Grey and Frances, for the lady of the house
seemed negligent and distraite. When she rose to
go she said casually, '' Oh, by the bye, I suppose
you have heard that that poor eccentric madcap
genius, young Mr. Dayrell, has fled from civilized
life — gone to be a missionary, or planter, or something
of that sort, in the Sandwich isles ? "

We knew he talked of it," said Mrs. Grey, giving
Stella, who was no longer distraite, time to compose
herself.

But is he really gone ? "

Yes, my brother told me he took leave of him off
the North Foreland, three days ago. Isn't it strange ?
So clever and famous, and just getting quite well and
strong again — and once so handsome too! What a
pity he got that scar. It was quite unpleasant."

Oh, oh ! " exclaimed Frances. " That is fiddle-de-dee
! It doesn't spoil his beauty a bit."

Stella, wrathfully yet sadly meanwhile, was gazing
from the window, and Frances thought her cousin

might be thinking how gladly she would have looked
on that scarred face once again.

Well," said Miss Ellerslie, as she rose to go, " he's
off to the Cannibal Islands, at all events, where I daresay
scars are fashionable, and where I suppose he'll
dress in war-paint and feast on his enemies — whoever
they may be."

Provided they don't hold the Protestant faith, you
should add," said Stella, *' pure and undefiled. Good
afternoon."

Mr. Dayrell really gone," said Mrs. Grey, meditatively,
when the door closed on their visitor.

Yes, evidently and really gone," echoed Stella,
gaily, as she left the drawing-room. " Really gone
at last ; and a good riddance of bad rubbish ! "

Those words were for her aunt and cousin. But as
she flung herself on the bed in her own room, moaning
softly to herself, the words on her lips were those
of Lady John Scott's beautiful song " Douglas," the
lament of a girl over the grave of her rejected lover.
It had been a favourite of Dayrell's from its intense
pathos and her exquisite singing. More than once,
when Stella had sung it to him, tears were in the
eyes of those who listened. And now all she could
say or think, while she vainly strove to keep the tears
from her own eyes, was the refrain of each verse :

Could ye come back to me, Douglas, Douglas !
In the old likeness that I kne^r,
I would be so faithful, loving,

Douglas, Douglas, tender and true.

Never a scornful vrord should pain you —

I'd smile as sweet as the angels do —
Sweet as your smile on me shone ever,

Douglas, Douglas, tender and true.

Oil ! to call back the days that are not.

Mine eyes were blinded, your words are few !

Do you know the truth now, up in heaven ?
Douglas, Douglas ! tender and true.

I was not half worthy of you, Douglas !

Not half worthy the like of. you —
Now all men, besides, are to me like shadows —

Douglas, Douglas, tender and true.

Stretch out your hand to me, Douglas, Douglas !

Drop forgiveness from heaven like dew.
As I lay my heart on your dead heart, Douglas,

Douglas, Douglas, tender and true."

And while she tossed from side to side (for she came
down no more that evening, but wrestled with her
grief in alternate moods of wrath and despair, of
remorse and tenderness), she once tried to blunt the
edge of pain by a desperate attempt to laugh at the
idea of Wilfrid Dayrell's " words " being "/et^;," or at
his being in heaven, wherever else he might be. But
the attempt was a failure ; and the dark hours wore on
in sleepless wretchedness, till at length merciful
Morpheus terminated her suffering for a season, as
happily he, at least among the gods, seems to delight,
in many similar cases, to do.

Well, "weeping may endure for a night, but joy
Cometh in the morning." Yes, in some morning — not
always the next morning — but sooner or later for a
certainty. And at all events, change comes with the

bright morning light, and renewed strength, generally,
to bear one's trouble. And on that next morning came
also Mrs. Dayrell's letter.

Now when Dayrell asked his mother to write to
Lady Stella and give his last farewells, he forgot, or
did not know, one or two little matters — viz., first,
that mothers sometimes have a tendency to think a
good deal more of their sons, than of the young ladies
with whom those sons may be in love ; and secondly,
that this particular mother thought she had great
reason to be bitterly indignant with this particular
young lady — Lady Stella, to wit. It was not, indeed,
quite a case of " Lady Clara Vere de Vere " — at least
not yet. But if Wilfrid lost his life in his wild enterprise,
the resemblance, she thought, would become too
painfully close. Wilfrid Dayrell, of course, like a
true gentleman, had blamed himself at the Priory, not
the lady, for the fatal cataclysm ; but when he was
under cross-examination by his mother, the main facts
had come out, and she largely discounted his self-reproaches,
while she magnified all the lady's faults of
caprice and temper. Hence her letter was not exactly
calculated to exert that healing, reconciling and
beneficial influence on the distressed damsel in
Portman Square which a different tone might have
done, but roused her instead to renewed wrath and
defiance.

So after a pleasant ride in the Park, during which
she met some agreeable acquaintances, she shook off
much of her last night's depression, saying it was " all

nonsense — mere folly, and degrading weakness. If
we were not fitted to make each other happy, why fret
at parting ? It was much better he should depart the
country, since I couldn't very well go myself. If, on
the contrary, our incompatibilities, anddisagreeabilities,
are merely superficial, then if we are ever to come
together in wedded bliss, why then, I suppose, he'll
come back before very long, when he's sick of the sea,
and the carries . . . . Or if he don't, it's no such
great loss after all, that I should ' go into a convent to
pine away and die ' . . . He's shockingly narrow-minded
and bigoted, and fierce — and fancy that dreadful
woman for a mother-in-law, ugh ! I can't endure
the thought of her. . No wonder her son has
treated me so badly. I dare say she persuaded him to
flee. Quite right, quite right."

There was a verse of a sweet little " Irish Melody "
often humming in her head just at this time, which
has not seldom been sung by sorrowful souls in their
despairing sorrow, but never perhaps with such grim
and bitter sentimentalism as when Lady Stella softly
sung it, by way of cheerful amusement one evening, to
Frances Grey in a confidential hour :

"All that's bright must fade,

The brightest still the fleetest ;
All that's sweet was made
But to be lost when sweetest,
^ * ^ * *

Better far to be

In utter darkness lying,
Than be blest with light and see
That light for ever flying."

Of course, of course, my dear little woman*' continued
Stella, as a final explanatory and consolatory
address to her sympathetic and tearful cousin, " of
course, utter darkness by way of contrast to ' a Brain '
glare, is decidedly agreeable on the whole, and the
Light may fly as fast as it likes to enlighten and
nourish and worship the Queen of the Lotos-eaters
and the King of the Cannibal Isles ! Vive les Iks de
joie!" So she nursed her pride and her wrath,
with only brief intervals of tenderness and remorse,
and resolved not only that she would not be at all
disturbed at Mr. Dayrell's departure, but that nobody
should for a moment fancy it troubled her.

Yet in the midnight darkness, her solitary pillow
could sometimes have borne witness of another mood.

There's a deal of truth in that old proverb, that
many a heart is caught in the rebound. In sheer
weariness of soul, and angry impatience of bearing
about so often an aching heart for one whom she
constantly represented to herself as unworthy of her
yearning affection. Lady Stella might easily in some
fatal or fortunate moment have yielded, in those
early days of her trouble, to the blandishments of
the eminent Professor, had he now been near at
hand to exert them. And he certainly would have
been if he had been as much, or half as much, in
love as his youthful rival. For then, though he
was on the Continent at the time of Dayrell's
departure, he would either not have succumbed to
the temptation of joining a friend in an expedition
VOL. n. 30

to a great scientific gathering in Italy, or he would
have hastened home immediately on the news
reaching him that a breach had apparently taken
place in a certain quarter. But the Professor did
not exist, as he rightly reflected, only or chiefly for
love-making, but for the guidance of the scientific
world ; and he subordinated, at the present time, the
less important pursuit to the greater. Not that he
meant altogether to lose the opportunity. But he
was accustomed to make, or to find, or at all events
to expect, everything to give way to his convenience
and desires ; so he had no doubt he should be in
plenty of time for pleading his suit when the Congress
was over, and he should be once again in
England. That scientific business, however, once
concluded, not without some personal disappointments,
jealousies, and heart-burnings, which will
occasionally disturb the placidity even of eminent
scientific, as well as literary, and artistic, or even
political great men, the illustrious savant's impatience
to meet once more the fair object of his
admiration increased in geometric proportion, and
he travelled day and night till he reached London.
But when, arrayed, metaphorically, in purple and
fine linen, according to Messrs. Poole's interpretation
of that graphic Hebrew precedent, and invested
with the patent of outward gentility, as well as withall
the advantage of a fine presence and intellectual
features, the great man presented himself one afternoon
in the Lady Stella's drawing-room, things had

somewhat changed from the position they occupied
during the first few weeks after Wilfrid Dayrell's
departure. Lady Stella had done a great deal of
thinking, and a good deal of suffering also, in the
interval.

The Professor bowed low as the lady rose to meet
him, lower than he probably would have done to
the Prince of Wales — or even to the lady herself,
had he more accurately *' diagnosed" the situation.
And as he bent over the fair white jewelled hand
graciously extended to him, he found himself under
a strong but most extraordinary temptation to print
on it a kiss.

Of course," quoth he, " it would have been a
piece of ridiculous impertinence," and he did no
such thing ; but he was less surprised to feel the
temptation, than to be obliged to resist it.

The Professor was certainly not what would be
called "an impressionable man." But he was
greatly impressed just now by the appearance of
Lady Stella. Somebody says that a beautiful
woman is the finest and most artistic of all the
Divine Creator's works. That, however, depends. If
it be mere beauty of feature, with little or no expression,
perhaps an opening moss-rose bud, or nota
few scenes in the Alps, are incomparably finer and
more artistic. Moreover there are faces which
though not artistically beautiful, yet by their expression,
by the soul and intellect which shine
through them, " beat the Alps hollow," as EUerslie,

30—2

thinking perhaps of his lady-love, once defiantly
put it. But a face and figure like those of Stella
Faulconhurst, as she stood there arrayed in faultless
drapery, with her statuesque head proudly erect, and
her white forehead framed in its rich auburn tresses,
her classical features and delicate complexion, with
her large dark eyes suggesting any amount of
capacity for emotion, whether admiration, reverence,
love, tenderness, hatred, scorn — well, one would be
blind and dull indeed not to recognize there God's
divinest masterpiece of artistic loveliness. No
wonder if even a scientific philosopher, as he gazed
for a moment spell-bound, reflected dismally on the
precious opportunities he might have lost for wooing
this peerless woman through courting his other
mistress. Science. Nevertheless, stifling his emotions,
and sinking gracefully into a seat beside the
lady, he skilfully used his visit to the Italian congress,
both as accounting for his absence from
England and as a means of introducing graphic
descriptions of Italian scenery generally and of the
scientific topics discussed at the meeting of savants
in particular. On the latter lines he could speak of
subjects with which he knew she used to be
charmed, and he entertained no doubt she would be
interested in them now. He spoke with his usual
animation, but there was a touch of tenderness, of
almost wistful interest in his tone and manner
when he inquired if she did not delight in hearing
of this discovery or of that exploded fallacy, which

no woman could misunderstand. But Lady Stella
spoke not — seemed to be gazing into far-off space.
The gentleman thought that possibly she was too
delighted to give utterance to her thoughts, or it
might be too shy to let him see her answering
interest and regard. It was not till some time later
he discovered what she learnt almost before he left
the room — viz., that in reality she was silent because
her thoughts were far away in coral isles of the
Pacific, and because she was lost in amazement to
think how it was she had ever preferred his conversation
to Mr. Dayrell's.

Once, indeed, she spoke with some animation, but
it was not exactly in a way to encourage him or to
lead him to think she now cared much about those
scientific speculations. The great scientist had been
received with immense respect at the Congress — his
utterances, rendered into choice Italian by the President
himself, had been greatly applauded. He had,
in fact, been made to feel for the hundredth time
in his life that he was a personage — and one of high
distinction. He naturally wished Lady Stella to be
aware of this, and at the same time to make her acquainted
with his brilliant remarks and peroration.
So he gave her just a little sketch of them in an
off-hand way, ending with the information that
certainly the applause which followed was rather remarkable,
considering he was a foreigner among them.

"Ah," observed Lady Stella, *' perhaps they applauded
you because you sat down."

The great man couldn't stand this slightly impertinent
comment, which unfortunately was not on
this occasion accompanied by that enchanting smile
wherewith Lady Stella usually discharged her caustic
or satirical observations. On the contrary it was delivered
with a serious and abstracted air, as if she
were considering an abstruse and important scientific
question. All which looked as if she were not at
that time deeply in love with the Professor. Not
that she was conscious of any special change in
her feelings towards him, still less in her convictions
or creed, or rather in her doubts and denials.
Possibly she was beginning to feel it was not mere
intellectual ability she now worshipped, but rather
that mysterious lifting power which raised her above
this outward world, with all its scientific mysteries,
all its perplexities and sorrows, up to a higher, nobler
life. Something of the wonderful meaning of spiritual
power and life was perhaps becoming clearer to her,
and she might also be learning that — as some
dreamers have thought — there is nothing in this
world for which human beings feel so grateful as for
spiritual benefits, — for the consciousness that they
have received something which quickens, unfolds,
enriches, satisfies their higher nature, the life of
their soul. The reason so little of this gratitude is
felt among men may possibly be because so seldom,
comparatively, is the benefit conferred and received.
But when it is bestowed, do not all history and
personal experience alike testify to the marvellous

depth and strength as well as the enduring nature
of the gratitude felt by those who have been thus
inspired ?

Stella had been gradually learning, since Dayrell's
departure, that this unspeakable service had been
rendered her, in days that were gone, by him whom
she had driven from her presence to distant shores
whence he might never return. And hence the Professor
made little progress in his suit that day, ,but
returned to his chambers and mused in disconsolate
amazement.

What a blind, foolish, exasperating creature this
lovely woman is," thought he, (and many would agree
with him,) " throwing away the finest matrimonial
chance that she'll ever have."

It may have been so. Yet Wilfrid Dayrell had loved
her and she had loved him before the Professor and
his scientific theories had come under her notice.

The lady, however, was by no means always either
grateful to her banished friend or penitent for her
conduct to him. During six long months she often
fondled and cherished both her pride and wrath
against the crusading fanatical missionary. Then
something happened.

News came from over the sea for the right understanding
of which it is needful to return to Wilfrid
Dayrell, whom we left standing on the deck of the
clipper-built barque, 'the Southern Queen," and
read some extracts from his journal.

Extracts from Wilfrid DayreWs Journal.

It seems a long time since I wrote in this
journal. My old life in England must have been
passed, I fancy, in another state of existence. But
having now nothing better to do, I'll jot down a few
recollections and ruminations, though I suppose nobody
will ever be the wiser for them. It is a relief
to talk to oneself when there's nobody else one
can speak to.

When I told my doctor, in some Antediluvian
period, I was going to New Zealand en route for the
South Sea Islands, he said it would do me a lot of
good, but added, " Gro in a sailing vessel unless you're
in a hurry." I wasn't in a bit of a hurry, and I
didn't want any companions, so I chose a fast trader,
a regular clipper, bound for Auckland with a general
cargo and only one passenger — myself. She had just
one comfortable state cabin, which the owner, to whom
I had been introduced by a friend, and who was a very
pleasant, gentlemanly fellow, arranged with the
captain to let me have. He asked me to meet said
captain at dinner, and from what I saw of that officer
on this occasion I thought myself fortunate in sailing
with him.

His vessel was a perfect beauty — barque-rigged,

1,500 tons; and it was a great delight to watch the

womanlike way in which she was handled, chiefly by

the first mate. There's plenty of real science, I

ould see, required for sailing a vessel of that kind,

or of any kind, which is lost in steaming, though I
imagine that also requires science, but of a different
and far less interesting character in general.

I remember that when I told Ellerslie what I was
contemplating he said with some surprise, " Why on
earth, oh, most restless and unintelligible of mortals,
are you going to New Zealand? I thought you
wanted to get fixings in the Friendly Isles, or some
other warlike settlements in the Pacific Ocean?"
Exactly so," I replied, " and I thought that was the
best way of doing the job." For, behold ! I had then
just learnt that to get to those "Isles of the Blest"
I must first go to New Zealand, at all events if I
went by a sailing craft. " And so," says I to my
friend, " I have arranged with the owner that I shall
be landed either on Samoa or at Tongatabu ; after
which I can choose my sphere of operations and
communicate with an old chum and my beloved
relatives in England, or even return thither when I
want to get Bibles and rum for the natives." " All
right, old boy," responded Ellerslie, and all right we
both of us then expected it would be.

The captain, however, who had seemed such a
pleasant fellow on shore, as soon as we got to sea
proved (as I've heard to be the case in other instances)
a regular surly martinet, and there was
clearly no love lost between him and his officers.
Of course the men before the mast were not violently
attached to him. But all this would have mattered
little, had his temper been the only fault. For

though that would have prevented much of the enjoyment
of the voyage for an ordinary passenger, it
made little difference to a misanthrope like me, who
was in no mood to enjoy anything ; while the strict
discipline maintained was an important element of
safety in the navigation of the good ship. Unfortunately,
however, after we had been some time at
sea, it became too evident that the captain's ill-temper
was occasionally (though not often till after
we had left New Zealand) aggravated by " nips " of
pretty stiff grog.

So it fell out that having landed our hardware
and " dry goods " at Auckland (during which process
I explored a bit of that charming locality), and
having taken on board a few trifles for the simple
natives of Samoa, including some dozen kegs of
fermented produce, I fear, for their moral and religious
improvement, the captain's " refreshes " had
a rapidly decreasing quantity of water in their composition,
while the daily meteorological report of
his temper indicated continual and proportionate increase
of disturbance and squalls, until his rage,
when anything excited him, was unmentionable. As
usual in such cases, cruelty went hand in hand with
drinking. Sometimes one unlucky sailor, and then
another, was the victim, but an unhappy little
cabin boy — who the captain declared *' sauced him " —
was the constant subject of his ill-treatment, till
the poor lad was covered with bruises. It was sometime
before I was aware, being absorbed in my own

speculations and griefs, of all that was going on ;
but when at last I noticed the treatment this boy
received, I was pretty soon in a white heat myself.
Yet it is a dangerous thing for a passenger (especially
ifs as in this case, he is the only one) to interfere
with the master of a vessel until he gets into port,
be his conduct ever so bad. I could, however, and
did speak to the first mate, though there was something
in the man's face and manner decidedly repulsive.
He rather surlily admitted that the treatment
of the poor boy was very bad ; '' but there,"
he added, " what's the good of jawing about it ? It's
as bad for some of the men as for young Sammy''

Well," I replied, ** I shall tell the captain, as
soon as he's out of this drunken fit, I mean to lay
the whole matter before the English Consul when
we land at Apia."

"Aye, aye, sir — if you ever do get to land, after
telling him that blooming bit of news."

Of course I very well knew what that meant, and
was quite aware that an accidental lurch of the
ship, if the captain happened to be conveniently
near some dark night, might easily send me where
I could tell no tales ; but for the life of me, I couldn't
hold my peace. Captain was sober enough when I
spoke to him next day, and became ashy pale before
I had finished speaking.

You mean to swear me into jail, eh ? "

I mean to swear to what I've seen, unless you
keep your hands off that lad till you drop anchor''

The devil you do ! " exclaimed the captain, bringing
his fist down on the cuddy table with a roar like
a mad bull's. So I just looked at him quietly — kept
looking at him squarely and fairly in the face, till
the fellow's eye fell, and he walked out of the cabin,
saying in a voice trembling with rage, " Then lookout
for yourself, you everlasting d — d infernal young
hypocrite."

Aye, aye," T could hear the first mate say under
his breath, as the captain came up the companion
ladder and walked aft, *•' and maybe you'll have to
look out for yourself, old rope's-end, and ,
! "

I didn't much object to being sent overboard,
except that I should have preferred being killed
before being eaten, and therefore objected to sharks
more than cannibals. But my heart was in this
missionary work, after all, however much it might
ache, and I longed to do my best in that line before
I died. So I generally gave the captain a sufficiently
wide berth in the night watches.

The men's patience at length, however, was getting
exhausted. Almost all of them had smarted in one
way or another under the cruel punishments inflicted
on them for the slightest offence. And now they
were nearing those dangerously seductive regions so
dear to a sailor's imagination from the days of
Captain Bligh and the *' Bounty " downwards.

Not long after the conversation above mentioned,
I was enraged one evening at hearing loud shrieks

and cries for mercy from the doomed cabin-boy ; and
rushing into the captain's cabin, was just in time to
dash the brute against the partition, and intercept a
furious blow dealt by him at the lad, who was already-bleeding
copiously from a wound in the face. Then
of course the captain turned on me ; and after a
short struggle, being far superior in strength, he
pinioned me against the bulk-head — in the twinkling
of an eye slipped a pair of handcuffs oyer my
wrists, which he always carried for such an emergency,
and burst into an ironical and decidedly
diabolical laugh. At this moment the second mate
appeared on the scene, hastening towards us. Xow
this man had always been civil and friendly, and I
had had many pleasant chats with him during his
various watches. He was a rough and ready Jack-tar,
but evidently had his heart in the right place,
and had been almost as much disgusted and angered
as I was at the captain's treatment of the men, and
especially of this poor cabin-boy. When he now
came up, he was going to lift up the lad and
staunch his wound, but the captain fiercely and
peremptorily bade him " leave the young blackguard
alone," and take me as a prisoner away, clap me in
irons down below, and be ready to bear witness,
when they got into port, that Wilfrid Darrell,
passenger, had assaulted the master of the " Southern
Queen," and had to be put in irons as a dangerous
and desperate villain. Accordingly, that desperate
and audacious individual was conducted quietly into

the ship's prison, and darkness descended alike on
the ship and on the prisoner's soul. Not that at
first I was particularly unhappy. I knew I had
done only my duty, and my future was not so full
of brightness that I cared much what became of me.
The second mate did what little he dared to ameliorate
my condition ; but it didn't come to much. I
slept more soundly, however, than I had done for
many a night before. The little cabin-boy, also,
slept well that first night (or what remained of him)
in his shotted hammock at the bottom of the sea —
better, I dare say, than his poor mother did when
she heard the last of him. For after his protector
was disposed of, the tyrant returned; and when the
victim feebly caught at a stool to throw at the
captain's head, he received a finishing blow behind
the ear, and never remonstrated at any ill-treatment
again.

Several days elapsed, and my spirits at last began
to droop in this dismal confinement, where I lay
-scarcely able to move a limb. One evening, a little
before dusk, I heard a tremendous row on deck —
then a momentary silence succeeded by loud hurrahs,
shouting, swearing, and scuffling of feet in all
directions. Presently the second mate came down
with a light, knocked off my irons, and brought me
on to the main deck, where a sailor was " swabbing "
away the stains of blood and brains which discoloured
the planks.

What was all the splutter about ? " I asked

rather aghast, and every word of the mate's reply,
in fact, all that followed, seems branded into my
memory :

Oh, nothing," he replied cheerily, then lowering
his voice, he added, " Only the Capon, don't yer see —
been in one of his drunken fits, laying about him
in all directions, and one of the fo'csle boys or
somebody else fetched him down with a crack on
the head from a-marling-spike. Good job too, or
he'd 'a murdered us all. Regular devil he was.
You've no need to blubber over him."

"Not exactly," I replied coolly.

"But you see, young gentleman, the men won't
stand your going ashore at Apia, nor indeed with us
into the harbour. They think, may be, you'd be
sending word home about the mutiny, or be put
into the witness-box before the consul, and spile
the true story of the captain's death from delirhcTii
tremens after he had shot the cabin boy, don't yer
see ? and so they mean to send you on a little
voyage of discovery among these beautiful South
Sea islands, there away on the lee-bow — though
mind, I've nothing to do with the business, except
saving you from being pitched overboard accidentally.
But you won't mind a little trip by
yourself, sir, will you now?" he continued, in a
rough but kindly tone, when he saw me look
rather dubious. *' You see you're a gentleman, and
it wouldn't do for one of your kidney to go on
much longer with us big blackguards. We'll fit

you up well, 'pend upon 't, when we part company.
Now get all your traps together, and I'll see to
provisioning your craft. You can use a few tools,
I guess, and let fly a fowling piece ? "

I thanked the man heartily, and set to work
to pack up all my movables.

Half an hour later when I came up from my
cabin laden with some of my goods, I found most
of the sailors gathered in threatening attitudes on
the main deck round the first and second mates.
One burly fellow was addressing the other thus :

*' Now look ye here, messmates. Our new
capon's a-going to bring us all to the yard-arm, or
to the new Dover breakwater in yellow-striped

flannels by sending that d d young high-flyer

adrift to be picked up by the first craft as
follows us, and then to come with his mealy
mouth and look us over in the prisoners' dock at
Apia."

Capon be d d ! " shouted several voices.

Gro to hell, you blasted fools ! " cried the first
mate, de jure captain pro tern, of the " Southern
Queen." " Don't yer know we're leagues still from
Samoa, and this youngster will be a good bit farther
afore our eye's off him. Have I been sailing the
ship for a month, for nothing. He'll never reach
either Auckland, Apia, or Tongatabu, yer lubbers,
nor any other port but the one we'll send him to tonight.
We aren't a-going to victual him for a
month's cruise, d n him." Seeing the men still

looked dangerous, he went on, " Why as long as you
leave enough men to work the ship, ye can cast
lots for them as funks going before the Samoan
Consul and a Naval Court, and they can be put
ashore at one of the Tonga islands and get their two-dozen
wives a-piece and make all ready for us when
we've got a clean bill at Apia, and come back to
settle down again among 'em. Ha, ha ! " He turned
on his heel, and seeing me standing there told me
to hurry up and get aboard the cutter with all
my belongings as fast as I could, before they made
me take a bathe in the sea.

Some of the men sung out " All right, Capon !
Better go and get clean swabbed for this business
now than be hunted up, and caught in a hole, and
tried for mutineers by and bye." But six or seven
of the rest were not to be so propitiated, and when
I came to the ship's side where the cutter, with
her main and foresail set and held in by one of the
sailors, was idly rocking on the long gentle swell of
the ocean, these fellows came forward and said in
gruff tones, first one and then another, " 'Wont
do, my boy. That 'ere young sneak '11 dive overboard
with a shot on his legs, or have an ounce of lead
through him. We aren't to have him turn Queen's
evidence agen us one o' these fine days," and the last
speaker drew an old-fashioned pistol from his trousers'
pocket and was raising it in the direction of my
unlucky head. Quick as lightning the second mate
whipped out a six-shooter and cried :

VOL. II. 31

Two words to that, my lad. There'll be half-a-dozen
of you d d cowards food for the fishes

before you hurt a hair of that young fellow's head.
Six barrels, you see — all loaded. That 'ere land-lubber
stood by yon poor little devil, at the bottom
of the sea, more nor once, when the old hell-cat was

at his d d tricks, and I'll be shot if he shan't

have fair play now ! Why if he were at the Old
Bailey he couldn't swear one of you into jail ! "

All right, mate ! " cried several voices. " It's
gospel truth, as you says. We'll see him through,
right and tight as a flea in a rug ! "

So I quietly descended over the ship's side into
the boat with all my worldly goods and chattels and
a lot of other useful things, besides a small stock
of provisions carefully stowed away for me by the
friendly mate.

Now, my man," whispered that personage
kindly, as he shook hands with me, *' you steer
squarely and fairly N.E. by E." — then aloud, " As
long as you see our light up there, young gentleman,
mind you keep yours burning at your mast-head, or by
Gr — d you'll have a dose of canister rattling through
you. But I guess you're not the cove to play us
false. Steer straight ahead and before sun's up
again you'll come on a blessed little island, full of
bananas and non-cannibal carries, who'll make a
god of you. So fare ye well, my hearty, and luck
go with yer. You've done your booty here. Yo
heave ho ! Down with your helm and away you go !

That's the word, Capon, bennet it ? " he added, addressing
the new " master," who stood looking on
with his usual sullen taciturnity.

Aye, aye, mate'' responded that officer. " Shove
him off. Let go ! "

The boat's painter was flung on to the bows of my
little craft, and slowly swinging round with the red
light at her mast-head, I found myself fairly adrift
and alone — alone last on that glorious Pacific ocean
which, for so many a day I had been longing to
reach.

My boating experience at Eton and Oxford had
made me familiar with the ordinary process of
handling a little craft like that of which I was now
captain, mate, passenger and crew all rolled into one ;
and the nautical experience I had gained by observation,
and by questioning the second mate during
the voyage, stood me in good stead now. The sailor
in charge of the cutter had lighted the binnacle
lamp, so that I could see to steer in the direction
the mate had indicated, and before long I found I
was rapidly increasing the distance between myself
and the two lights shown by the " Southern Queen."

It was a strange but enchanting situation. My
boat went gliding along, over, and down, and up the
long roll of the Pacific ocean swell. As darkness,
lighted by a thousand glorious stars overhead, settled
down on the deep, a steady but gentle breeze
filled both sails, and I had nothing to do but to
keep my hand on the tiller, my eye occasionally on

31—2

the compass — and — think. What was to be the end
of all this ? I had certainly got " my heart's desire "
as far as the " Southern Seas " were concerned, and
now I was soon to rejoice in treading the " Coral
isles " themselves — rather sooner, however, than I had
quite intended.

In spite of the desperate efforts I made to prevent
my eyes closing during the next four or five hom-s,
and in which I firmly believed I was quite successful,
I suddenly discovered I was not. For being
awakened from a brief nap by a violent bump to
my little craft, which was tossing in very broken
water, I saw by the faint light just beginning to
dawn, that I had run against a coral reef, beyond
which was smooth water, and then a dark belt of
palm trees. With considerable difficulty, drenched
with the foam, and at some risk of being pitched
overboard by the violent tossing of the boat, I
managed to haul down my mainsail, and with an
oar got her head half round to leeward. During
these few moments her fate and mine trembled in
the balance. But in another second, as I rushed
back to the stern, and caught hold of the tiller,
I saw with a sigh of relief (for the prospect of
sudden death is generally unpleasant) the foresail
fill, and my pretty little clean-cut craft spring
through and over the breakers out into smooth
rolling water, as if exulting to be once more safe
and free. Luckily for me there was not much wind,
or there would have been, then and there, an end

of all my earthly adventures. Looking about carefully
now for an opening in the reef, and coasting
a little way along it, I found an entrance into the
calm waters of the beautiful lagoon which extended
on the landward side of the reef, right to the shore.
I let the boat glide gently up to a little natural
landing-place, flung the kedge ashore, and sat in the
stern-sheets a few minutes revelling in the singular
loveliness of scenery which the rising sun was disclosing
before my eyes. It so closely resembled
the descriptions which I had read of the Friendly
Islands that I felt no doubt of having come to one
of that group, or at all events to one of their near
relations. Close down to the water lay bright
golden sand — beyond that belt of gold there
stretched a broad strip of soft green turf — then
came a great ring of lovely cocoa-palm trees hung
with beautiful climbing plants, and interspersed in
front with flowering shrubs, all in full bloom, and
of brilliant colours. The water on which my boat
lay, scarcely moving, was singularly clear and transparent,
in parts of exquisite turquoise colours, in
other places of the darkest sapphire. The resemblance
of the whole scene to the descriptions of which
I had read in England was completed when looking
out to sea across the reef as I stood on the
shore I saw the ocean swell rising " in a great
grand curve" over the reef, shining out in emerald
green against the dark pure blue of the deeper
water beyond, and dashing itself with mighty force

on the great natural breakwater raised for the protection
of this garden of Eden within.

But as I gazed on that magnificent spectacle,
radiant now in the light of a glorious dawn, the
wonderful escape I had had in being driven against
a sheltered part of the reef instead of where those
vast volumes of water were rising over the rocks,
and then remembered the scene on the deck of
the " Southern Queen " the night before, I knelt on
the sand in deeper gratitude and love to One whom
I seemed to know was near me, than I think I
had ever felt before. I had no difficulty in forgiving
those who had sent me adrift — I felt so profoundly
grateful to them.

The next thing I did was to have a delicious
bathe, rather shortened in duration by remembering
that sharks abounded in these beautiful seas ;
and though I indulged a great hope that they
might not approve of venturing inside the breakwater,
I began to feel a strong desire to get my
own breakfast rather than provide them with theirs.
My trusty friend, the second mate, had stowed away
in a couple of big boxes, almost everything I could
want with which to begin housekeeping where
there were not many chances of finding shops, down
even to lucifers ; for he had foreseen, during the
two or three days when I lay in irons, what was
pretty certain to come. So, having discovered a
lovely little fresh-water spring, I soon got a capital
breakfast, and, reclining on the soft turf, gave myself

up to the full enjoyment of the lovely scene
around, and the exquisite delight of breathing au
atmosphere more balmy and exhilarating than anything
I could have possibly conceived. True, I
was entirely alone ; but that was the best part of
the business. For after my recent experiences of
society both on board the vessel, and during the
latter part of my life on shore, I felt solitude, in
such an earthly Paradise, to be not merely a considerable
relief, but a singular blessing. The sense
of freedom, of being divested of all responsibility
except for my own security and sustenance, of
being delivered from all necessity for controversy
and strife, from all the weary weight of social
pressures, and all the infernal wrangling and violence
on board that beautiful barque, was indescribably
delightful. I didn't trouble myself about
what might happen in the future, but just gave
myself up to the full enjoyment of the life around
me.

Overcome with sleep after my nautical vigil, I
enjoyed a good nap on the soft turf under a palm
tree, and woke to the soft musical hum of birds
and insects, but, alas ! also to the chorus-singing
of swarms of aboriginal flies melodiously chanting
Welcome, little stranger ! " I had had a presentiment
that unless I had actually died in the night
and got to heaven, there must be some considerable
drawbacks to the delights of this terrestrial Eden,
some serpent to alloy its bliss — and so it proved.

Flies had been provided — and I was grateful for at
least that amount of discomfort to prevent my
sinking into the Lotos-eaters' limbo of degradation.
I only hoped there was nothing worse — in the shape
of scorpions or cannibals. I felt entirely safe from
wild beasts, and veritable, if not allegorical, snakes ;
while the abundance of cocoa-nut palms and bananas
assured me I need not starve even if I had to
stay here after the provisions I had brought with
with me were exhausted. But one can't live on
cocoa-nuts, or even bananas only, and I soon began
exploring, partly to see what nature had provided
for my sustenance in addition thereto, and also to
discover a safe and suitable receptacle for myself
and my precious belongings at night. I held a
council meeting, therefore, and resolved it was desirable
to secure a hole where both they and I
could lie snugly concealed if there should prove to
be any inhabitants on what I was pretty sure must
be an island. Visitors also from other shores must be
provided against, should any have a benevolent desire
to look me up. Fruits of various kinds I soon
found — some as delicious as they were well known
to me and which I ate without fear, among them
the bread-fruit — others more questionable ; while
the flowering shrubs, the gorgeous crimson of the
hibiscus, the gardenias, &c., amid which large purple
butterflies were perpetually hovering, and the tall
elegant feathery foliage of the groves of palm-trees
against the deep blue sky, made a wonderful combination

of exquisite form and colour. " The banana
plantations growing beneath a grove of tall cocoa-palms,"
as my books of travels said, were especially
lovely. For I found that their great leaves
had been truly described, and were translucent in
in the sun, so that when it shines through them
they glow like emeralds. All this, with the delicious
air, enabled me fully to understand what that writer
meant who had first fired my imagination with his
descriptions of these islands, when he said: "There's
a rapturous intoxication in the very air we breathe,
a sense of beauty everywhere around, in earth, and
sea and sky, that it is impossible to describe." Then
there were those flocks of lovely white tropic birds
of which he speaks, gracefully sailing and careering
in the bright sunny air, " j)^i^s of which," I remembered
he said, " often separate themselves, and fly
together higher and higher till almost lost in the
cloudless sky," just as I once told Somebody. Ah !
thought I, they are happy in their mutual love
and glorious freedom. They have no theological controversies,
or sarcastic raps at sentiment, or prosy, irritating
rectifying, or bothering carelessness, or selfish
fads, or bitterness of love turned to wrath, or rash
temper, to alienate their affection and wedded love.
They are the true Bacchanals, vowed to love and freedom,
to beauty and joy, for ever. Happy, beautiful
creatures ! Will human beings, thought I, in the
progress of evolution, ever be as happy as you ! Yet
I can't say I envied them for more than a brief hour.

Somehow I had long felt sure old Mr. Dayrell was
right, and that there was no happiness granted to
the animal world that would not one day be given
to Grod's children in a higher form, when they are
fit for it. So I could rejoice in their joy meanwhile,
and wait His time for the "Palingenesia."

Amid all these enchanting scenes 1 got on rather
slowly in my search for a secure resting-place.
Having been familiar, of course, with my " Robinson
Crusoe " from childhood, I had a general notion that
I ought to find a cave, and a tree near it, with easy
access to the upper stories. I had no intention of
spending my life all alone on an island, even in the
South Seas, for I had not quite forgotten my missionary
aims; and I fully intended setting sail again,
after a sufficient season of refreshing, in search of
the Samoan or Tonga islands, if the one I was on
did not prove to be inhabited. But in the meantime
I must make a temporary home and hiding-place,
and at last found a hole in a sand cliff not
too far from my boat and landing-place, which I
dignified by the title of the " Lodge," in loyal homage
to Cowper for having melodiously desired the
boon he could not gain, but which was granted tome.*


It was rather narrow quarters at first, but I soon
burrowed further, with the help of a navvy's spade
which the good-natured mate had pitched into the

" Oh, for a lodge in some vast wilderness !
A boundless contiguity of shade."

cutter after me, crying, " Here, you lubber, take
that ! You'll be gold-digging one of these days ! "
I didn't feel particularly grateful to him at the time
for the present, as it nearly struck my skull, but
it was invaluable now in getting all my provisions,
&c., and especially my one cask of gunpowder, under
shelter as soon as practicable. I was quite aware
that although in general the weather was delightfully
serene and refreshing, tropical storms must be
expected at intervals here, as well as in Portman.
Square, and duly provided against. Nevertheless,
I did not think of that when, a little later I weighed
anchor and went on a voyage of investigation in
my tidy little craft.

For a time, however, I gave myself up to lazy
enjoyment and rest, whereof I stood in some need ;
or wandered in the woods which lay beyond the
belt of cocoa-palms, armed with my fowling-piece ;
collected bananas and other fruits ; found another
sparkling rill of water ; sailed about on the lagoon ;
climbed trees and to my great satisfaction found
birds' eggs (which were wholesome if not nice),
saw no living creatures but birds and insects ;
fought the flies pretty successfully, with the help
of smoke from a kind of berry ; worked at my cave,
and unloading ; bathed, or lay on the sweet, soft
turf, looking up to the brilliant flowers, and
graceful foliage, and deep blue sky, and out over
the glorious ocean ; and was supremely happy.
As the voyager above quoted says here were " pure

air, calm seas, and cloudless skies, cold almost
unknown and food growing ready to your hand,"
with pellucid springs of water, and cool shade in
the noon-tide heat, " what more could mortal man
want ? " What more ? Perhaps for one moment,
but for a moment only, I thought of the great poet's
aspiration — and sighed for more — and thought of old
times,

Oh that the Desert were my dwelling place,
With one fair spirit for my minister " —

But I had too long and successfully, as I fancied,
crushed any such vain repining and desires, for
them to trouble long my peace and happiness now.
It is a grand secret of mental tranquillity to push
away from you all thoughts that disturb it, if they
can't, or " don't ought " to goad you into remedial
measures. " Resist the devil and he'll flee from
you."

As I looked on all this scene, hour after hour,
in the early days of my sojourn on the island, and
breathed its heavenly air, I thought of the back
slums and crowded feverish drawing-rooms of
London, and longed with infinite pity to see a
few at least of the sufferers from that frightful
mistake, the Modern Babylon, transported to the
Coral Isles of the Pacific. At all events, I thought
to myself, some day I will try to show them that
there is such a refuge, and at least a material
heaven on earth awaiting them. For Mr. Dayrell
was right when he spoke in one of his Oxford

addresses of the lessons which Christians should
learn from the Mahometan " Old Man of the
Mountain." We have to remind or show people
that heaven is possible. The great Apostle says,
We are saved by Hope ; " but as far as I saw,
neither rich nor poor in the old 'viper Jars"
of great European cities had any hope, except
of 10 per cent, or a rise in wages. They do not
look forward with any assured, realizing, vision of
joy to come ; and therefore they clutch the more
madly at any present excitement or dissipation,
for momentary enjoyment or relief.

At length these musings came to an end; and
having got all my worldly goods transferred from
the boat to my new marine villa, I turned the head
of my little craft one lovely morning towards the
opening in the reef by which I had originally
entered the lagoon, and soon found myself gliding
gently over the great ocean swell outside. Giving
the breakers a wide berth, and steering S. by S.W.,
I began coasting along the shore, which trended
rapidly away to the South and then to E., N.E. and
North until I found I was circumnavigating the
small island, whereon I had been so unceremoniously
thrown. In fact I could just see the
headland which rose at the east end of the
breakwater and the lagoon where I had first
landed. But while I was carefully examining the
horizon in all directions, with my telescope, and
noting with satisfaction what might be large

groups of islands, not more, I thought, than
thirty or forty miles distant — or which might be
castles in the air," i.e., cuinidi clouds — the sky
suddenly darkened, and a hurricane was on me,
for which, had I been a more experienced sailor,
with a good barometer, I should have been
prepared some hours before. As it was I had
only just time to run my boat into a bit of a
creek, throw out my kedge, down with my sails,
and jump ashore, when the storm came leaping
and tearing along, sweeping everything before it
with extraordinary violence. Thinking my boat
was quite secure, as I had driven the kedge firmly
into the sand, and made it fast moreover with one
of the oars, I endeavoured to get a little shelter
from the terrific down-pour, but was soon wet to
the skin. The thunder was rolling in grand and
tremendous peals, the lightning flashing incessantly,
when to my intense dismay I suddenly sw my
boat swept from her moorings in the little creek
and tossing wildly on the foaming surges outside.
I rushed down to the spot, amazed as well as
horrified, but was of course utterly unable to
recover my beloved cockle-shell, which was being
rapidly driven out to sea. I could almost fancy
I heard it calling piteously to me for help. . . .
and for a moment I really felt as if I could have
sobbed like a child.

When I came to examine the spot where
she had been anchored I found the kedge

firmly fixed as ever, with the oar and the
little cable round it. But alas, the rope had chafed
during the tornado against the rough edge of a
projecting stone, that in the hurry and flurry of
the moment had escaped my notice ; and the frayed
end of the strand, half cut through, explained
only too clearly the cause of this irremediable
disaster. The rope, indeed, looked as if it had
already had plenty of wear and tear, and the
violent agitation of the boat must have been,
greater than even I had supposed.

Until this calamity had occurred, and I was
trudging sadly over the hill and through the wood
strewn with boughs and fallen trees, that lay
between me and my cave, with the kedge and oar
over my shoulder, I little knew how much I had
been depending for my happiness on that elegant
toy now torn from my possession. I had fancied
I was heartily in love with the idea of solitary
life — at all events for a long time to come. But
when I reached the spot where the pretty creature
had lain floating day after day, with her shadow
reflected on the bright clear water, and now knew
that I should never see her again, the sense of
utter hopeless isolation from my fellow-creatures,
of absolute solitude for perhaps the rest of my
days, much as 1 enjoyed my own society, was, I
confess, intensely painful. I didn't want to go
back again among civilized human beings then —
might not want to do so for years. But I knew

that after a time I should want very much
indeed to go among the gentle uncivilized inhabitants
of the Friendly Isles ; and while the cutter
was anchored within view of " The Lodge," she
reminded me silently, unconsciously, day by day,
that I could leave my solitude whenever I chose.

However, the next morning I pulled myself
together and felt as if the sweet fresh atmosphere
with all the loveliness of the surrounding scenery
of this little Garden of Eden, mercifully given me
for a refuge and rest from an evil world, would
never allow me long to suffer from any great
depression of spirits. The human mind has a
delightful tendency to reconcile itself to the
inevitable ; and the mere necessity of providing
oneself with daily food and making other exertions
which were as necessary even in this storehouse
of abundance, as in the original Paradise — coupled
with the light toil I imposed on myself in constructing
a little garden and ornamenting my
dwelling, varied with frequent reading in my library,
all helped for a time to make the days pass peacefully
and often most pleasantly away.

Thus time wore on — not wearily — not quite
unprofitably I hope. I cannot describe what a
sense of happiness and peace often filled my whole
heart. And why should I try ? AYho cares ? Yet
it's a comfort to fancy somebody some day will
like to read this rubbish.

I had brought a lot of books and a box of tools
VOL. II. 32

from England, and soon found plenty to do in
making additions to the comfort and convenience
of my surroundings. Then it was a never-failing
pleasure to stroll through the beautiful woods
and over the velvety grass beyond, gathering
abundance of richly coloured flowers to decorate
my home. I generally carried my gun, but I
never could find it in my heart to shoot the
beautiful creatures hovering in the summer air —
while, less fortunate than Eobinson Crusoe,
there were no goats on the island for me either to
shoot or to tame. But, on the whole, I had a
jolly time of it, then.

And yet when weeks and even months rolled
by, without the sight of a human being, without
any change but what had lost the charm of
novelty, and I began to start at the sound, even,
of my own voice, gradually an irresistible sadness
crept over me. I saw beloved faces in my dreams
and actually woke with womanish tears in my eyes,
and an aching desire in my heart, and went about
sorrowing for the clasp of the vanished hand, and
the sound of a voice I might never hear again.
In a life of such utter solitude there was so little
to relieve and change the pressure of sorrow, and
of that yearning for answering friendship and
love which gnaws like the undying worm. I
never knew before how dependent for their daily
peace human beings are on some sort of society,
nor how grateful a fellow ought to be even for

society which perhaps he despises or chafes at
when he has it. Then as in most cases, I believe,
of solitary confinement, something which I had heard
of, but never understood, a sort of monomania, began
at length to take possession of my mind. Morbid
thoughts and images gained an exaggerated power
over me — and I felt like a haunted man who fears
to look round lest he should see the horrible
spectre which he knows is closely gliding behind.
Instead of rejoicing as I had done for months in
all the beauty and peace of my island home, I am
ashamed to think that at last I positively loathed
that loveliness which to my jaundiced eye was
more hateful than would have been the dreariest
wilds of Siberia, with the company of fellow
convicts.

Ah, thought I, in my misery, as I sat in the
shadow of the woods, if I had but listened to my
dear mother's entreaty that I would take with me
on my travels that rough, unlettered, but honest
lad, Tom Tumble, as they called him, who looked
after my horse and worked between whiles in the
garden. The friendly mate would certainly have
tumbled him down into the cutter after me ; and
though he was but a young country lout, his company
now would have saved me from qualifying for
Coney Hatch. But at that time I was embittered
against all the world, and only wanted to be alone.
I would not even bring away my favourite dog.
What would I not have given-to have him with me

32—2

now ! I could see no four-footed animals on the
island, or I would have caught and tamed one,
whatever it was ; for I did long with great longing
for a companion, however humble. Something to
love, something to be kind to, someone to whom
you can be of use— surely this is a great necessity
for one's heart — as deep and divine an instinct, and
I suppose, as universal, as the impulse to seek for a
Being, or beings, whom one may worship and adore.
During those wretched seasons, I got into a
Stupid habit of lying for hours together on the edge
of a cliff with my telescope, vainly fancying I
should at last see some vessel sailing near enough for
her to mark my signals, or might roll over into another
world without felo de se. More than once I did see
a sail, but only on the verge of the horizon, and
being soon lost to view, as it went on its voyage,
the sight only increased my "heim-weh," and called
up a host of passionate memories and desires. At
last I began to wish even for an invasion of
savages ; and then I remember I had a momentary
gleam of amusement and brightness as I fancied I
heard a well-known soft musical voice saying in her
playful mocking tone— "I do believe Mr. Dayrell
would rather now be eaten by a fellow-creature than
not see one ! " But the transient mirth soon fled,
and left me in deeper gloom than ever.
Then sometimes I thought I saw Fred, with his
cynical smile, smoking a cigar, and looking at me
through his eye-glass with infinite contempt, which

gradually changed to profound compassion. . . Ah,
if that dear old boy could only have looked in for
half an hour after breakfast, and just shaken me
up a bit. . . . But all this self-pity was simply
damnable.

While I was wrestling with my mental disease,
I asked myself more than once, how it was that
Eobinson Crusoe, who had so much longer experience
of solitary confinement on his island than
I had had at that time, did not appear to have
suffered as I was doing — at least not to anything
like the same extent — and then only when he was
weakened by illness. It required some effort to
remind myself that " Eobinson Crusoe " was not a
real personage after all, only the creation of Defoe's
brain. Besides I reflected that he is described as a
thoughtless, uncultured, lively young fellow who
would be one of the last men to be hag-ridden by
morbid fancies. And this might also apply to the
real case of Alexander Selkirk.

With myself I knew it was very different. All
my life I had been apt to exaggerate every thing
and every event within or around me, till all sense
of relative proportion and perspective was lost; and
this tendency, if not sternly checked and regulated,
I now saw was the hot-bed of such diseased fancies
as I was suffering from. Then too I remembered
how shamefully I had been in the habit of looking
on the dark side of things, and how greatly this
ungrateful repining had prepared for and aggravated

my present troubles. When I compared my former
condition with the present, and thought how jolly I
might and ought, then, to have been, and yet how
selfishly I had murmured and growled in the midst
of so many dear friends, enjoyments and comforts,
I felt I had escaped the sharks only to be
devoured by remorse, and perhaps for the first time
in my life I felt really and profoundly penitent and
ashamed. I knew I had often distressed my mother
and sisters by this constant tendency to repining
and fault-finding ; and now I began to think how
dishonouring it was to God and therefore how displeasing
to Him and to all in heaven who love
Him. " It is such grievous want of trust in Him and
His government of the Universe," said I aloud to
myself; "it is saying and believing that from want
of the will, or the power, God is ruling the world
badly, and that in consequence we are all the
victims either of His weakness or of His cruelty, or
caprice." Yet this, practically, had been my creed,
and now I was reaping what I had sown. No words
can describe the dark and horrible thoughts which
began to haunt me in the dreary night watched
when I could not sleep, and assailed me often even
in the brightness of the day. I could not escape
from them as I once could before my accident, by
the active occupation and frantic exercise, which
not only diverted my thoughts but ensured me
sound and refreshing sleep. Even during my long
confinement, after the said accident, when I could

take no exercise, low inexpressibly comforting and
cheering were the sympathy, kindness, and presence
occasionally of dear friends.

On the top of the highest sea-shore rock near my
cave, the inland side of which sloped up in a
gradual turfy ascent, I had fixed a rude flag-staff,
attached to it a long strip of canvas, in hopes it
might attract the attention of a passing vessel.
From the summit I could just see on the horizon,
what I often felt sure was the outline of lofty
mountains, and which I guessed from what the
mate told me must be part of the Samoan group.
The longing to reach that *•' land beyond the sea "
now became irresistible, and I turned down the hill
one evening resolved to make the attempt, not the
less willingly that it might cost me my life. For
nearly a month before I had tried to build a skiff,
but found it was an utterly hopeless task. 1 had
no notion of carpentering. Then I worked at constructing
a raft from logs of wood, and at length
one lovely morning, having provided myself with as
much food as I could stow away safely, and with the
help of the one oar I had left, by way of rudder,
and a queer cut sail, I managed to get across the
lagoon and through the harbour gate. But alas,
when I was on the open rollers, I found my frail
machine was quite unmanageable and at the mercy
of the waves ; so after vain efforts for five hours
I was flung back on the island on the opposite
side from where I had embarked, and it was only

too evident there was no escape for me in that
fashion.

Among my other discoveries on the island were
what I guessed and found to be those useful
"candle-nuts," of which I had read. And one
evening when I was sitting in dreary impatience and
indignation at my hard fate and all my sufferings,
in the swift darkening twilight, alone with my
Maker and myself, rebelling against everything that
had happened to me for many a year, 1 bethought
me of my candles, and got some light, at least of
an earthly description. Then, listlessly turning over
the books and manuscripts in my chest, my eye
happened to fall upon the first pages of this journal,
written during the early days of trouble after my
cropper in the hunting field. I read on and on,
startled to see how I was apparently just in the
same frame of mind as then ; no progress made, no
wisdom, no trust, no love gained. Yet I knew I
had once, since then, made progress ; the subsequent
pages of mv journal confirmed that conviction.
Why had I now so grievously gone back ?

Among the many things I had tossed out of
my chest, was the Life of Robinson Crusoe — for,
when leaving the Priory, I had put up a few
favourite books, among graver tomes, which I
thought might be interesting to my future South
Sea converts. It was the story in which I had
revelled with delight and often enacted as a boy,
but now the contrast between those happy days

when I was surrounded with friends and blessings
(unasked, unthanked for), and my present forlorn
condition was almost more than I could bear. To
learn that exquisite passage about the Village Bells
at the beginning of the "Winters Walk at Noon" of
Cowper's " Task " had been a labour of love as a boy,
because my mother had asked me ; and now those
lines came to my mind like a scorpion's sting —

Eor not to know a treasure's real "worth,
Till Time has stol'n away the slighted good,
Is cause of half the poverty we feel,
And makes the world the wilderness it is."

Some amount of self-examination and introspection
is undoubtedly both useful and necessary for
moral and spiritual progress. But one of the worst
results of this continued isolation was its tendency
to drive one's thoughts so constantly in upon oneself
for want of outward changes and objects to
attract them. Hence I was everlastingly dwelling on
my past life, my aspirations and disappointments, all
my troubles and woes. Unhappily I had, as I well
knew, always been too much addicted to this pernicious
egotism, and now the absence of any society
and friends intensified it vilely. I have heard that
such a habit greatly helps the mind into madness,
whether it take the form of egotistical pride,
vanity and ambition, or hypochondria and morbid
selfish repining. So now the Nemesis of my former
sins had found me out. Xo wonder solitary imprisonment
often leads to insanity. How if, in
another world, all selfish, proud, egotistical souls are

confined each to a desert island — and alone, until —

they are purged from their leprosy?

«= ^ # * *

So the melancholy hours wore on. But then one
day I remembered how, when Eobinson Crusoe was
in his great and sore distress, he had found infinite
comfort in those words in the Bible on which his
eye happened to fall : " Call upon me in the day of
trouble : I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify
me." But those words and many, many more in
that grand old repository had long been familiar tome.
Why had they not given me comfort during
these days of darkness ? I thought I had got far
beyond the oiled (though I never could get beyond
the enjoyment) of the mighty consolation which
even the Hebrew Scriptures contain. But the New
Testament also was tolerably familiar to me I
thought — with all its " exceeding great and precious
promises." How often during the later days of
languishing " on my couch at Aldclyffe Priory, I
had been " lifted up in the Spirit," and seemed to
enter "within the veil." Why then was it thus
with me now ? Was it not because I had found
those truths and promises realized, and had longed
so deeply to share the blessedness they brought me
with those whom I most dearly loved, that I had
alienated the love of one — who was dearest of all ?
Then why had I been so faithless and miserable,
when the storm came and beat upon my house ?
Surely it was founded on a rock.

Yes, but how if I had let myself be driven forth
from that house, and had been dwelling on the sand ?
I saw that I had allowed the events which immediately
preceded my leaving England to embitter
and harden my heart so thoroughly, to make me
so indignant and unhappy whenever I thought
either of God or man, that practically I had abandoned
nearly all the ground I had gained before.
I had not quite given up all prayer, but I knew
the difference between the mere outward forms of
devotion and real heart-worship and love of God —

My words fly up, my thoughts remain below —
"Words without thoughts never to heaven go."
Hamlet, Act iii. Sc. 4.

and I knew also too well that for many a day, in
the language of the old divines, I had not been
'' walking with " Him, not giving Him my heart.
The conditions of life on board ship, certainly,
were not favourable to piety in a weak-kneed soul
like mine ; while during the first few months of
my residence on this island I had given myself
up to the sweet intoxication of its climate and its
natural beauty, and the charms of solitude without
more than a passing thought or formal recognition
of the Fountain and Source alike of past chastening
and present peace.

As all this was " borne in upon me " with a
great tide of contrition and shame, I think I
really did humble myself before Him who I felt
had all along' been watching over me, loving me,

delivering me from a violent death, and then
bringing me first into "green pastures and by the
still waters" of this lovely Paradise, and who more
recently was leading me by His fatherly corrections
into "the paths of righteousness." I felt that what
I had now to do was to recover, and cherish a deep
vital confidence in His goodness — a love for Him
worthy of His love for me — a love that would " cast
out fear" — a trust in Him that He was making
everything work out for good to those who loved
Him, and a perception that even He could not do
this for those who loved Him not. Then too
reading by candle-nut light in that little " ,"
I began to understand what Dr. Eivers
had once referred to, and St. Paul meant when he
said that God was " able to do exceeding abundantly
above all that we ask or think, according
to the power that worketh in us." Does
he not mean that since God has endowed us
with free-will, He can bless us in many ways only
in so far as our wills work with His, and we give
ourselves up to His will and His love ?

As I read on in my journal, and every now and
then turned to passages in the Bible, I came to
the record of a conversation held one evening with
her whose name I had not cared, or perhaps dared,
to pronounce for many a day, in which she was
saying how she had learned to see that it was the
spirit of Love, alone, which could hallow and bless
all we did, thought, suffered — and old as that

truth was, it seemed to come to me now with a
new and glorious power. And then my eyes happened
to fall on a passage in one of the Gospels
in which Jesus said to His disciples " Come ye
apart into a desert place and rest awhile," and
I thought how I had heard the Grood Shepherd
saying those very words to me, and how he had
brought me into this desert island that I might
hear His Father's voice, and once again might
know and feel that Father's love.

*' Speak, Lord, for Thy servant heareth," my
heart seemed to reply — and I listened. . . .

Turning over the leaves of the gospels I came
on these words of Christ — " I will not leave you
comfortless : I will come to you. . . . He that
hath my commandments and keeper them, he it
is that loveth me : and he that loveth me shall
be loved of my Father, and I will love him and
will manifest myself to him." The disciples could
not fully understand this ; and one of them, it seems,
asked him, " Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest
thyself unto us and not unto the world?
Jesus answered and said unto him. If a man love
me he will keep my words, and my Father will
love him, and we will come unto him and make
our abode with him." Then, in that solemn stillness,
I think I said aloud, " Lord, I will keep thy
commandments and give myself up wholly to our
Father's will, and trust and love Him evermore.
It is all I can now do, but this I can and will do.

Father forgive me. I have sinned against Thee
and am not worthy to be called Thy child. Yet
Thou lowest me. Help me to love Thee with
perfect love — and to know the love of Him Thy
beloved Son, who gave Himself for me. . . ."
Then I got up and went out of my cave. The
full moon had risen and was shining so brightly
that I could even see to read by its light. . . .
It was a glorious scene — of unspeakable loveliness.
. . . Passages such as those in St. Paul's
letter to the Romans, chapter v. 6-S, and viii. 32,
or in St. John iii. 16, which I had pondered
over at the Priory, where the greatness of Grod's
love in not sparing His beloved Son, but letting
Him die to bring us all to Himself, is so touchingly
commended to our gratitude, came home tome
now with great force. I thought how unspeakably
sad it was when, after all, men will not make
use of the help and deliverance offered them by
Divine love at so great a cost. . . . Then,
kneeling beneath the stars, on that (to me) memorable
night, I solemnly vowed that 7, at all events,
would try to accept and evermore avail myself
of the help which that Love had provided. Yet
here I was — only twenty-seven — all my dreams of
literary power and fame, of political and social usefulness,
of wedded love, of artistic delights, vanished
perhaps — ah, I began to feel probably — for ever.
. And in solitary confinement. . . , Yet
in the midst of it all, what a wonderful peace and

:oo.

often joy then filled my heart. . I felt, U
that this was just because I had let God's spirit
guide me, and had honestly though very imperfectly,
tried to give myself and my dreams, with all my
hungry longings and desires into God's hands — and
once again and again, I asked him to do with me
just what He desired for me — what He saw to be
best. Then He told me that His beloved Son was
His answer to all my wants. And I found that by
giving myself up to Christ unreservedly, asking him
to fill me with his own life and spirit, to nourish
and mould me, to guide and uplift me, I became
like Paul " more than conqueror " over all the evil
and suffering that was crushing me — over even that
terrible "thorn in the flesh," or the brain, that had
been torturing me to death. . . .

So in the bright moonlight, and beneath the
stars, with the soft wind scarce moving a leaf, a
great peace came into my soul. . . . And I
knew and felt that I was once more reconciled,
made at one with God and I understood St. Paul's
worship of joy in God, which he says comes
through our Lord Jesus Christ by whom " I had
now received this at-element."

"When I looked out on my little world of sea, and
grove, garden, and shore, the following morning, it
was with very different eyes from those which
during the last few weeks had taken in its beauty
and grandeur. As I gazed on the glowing colours
of the flowering shrubs and on the feathery palm-trees
rising in their loveliness against the dense
majestic foliage of the larger trees growing further
inland, and then turned to look across the blue
tranquil waters of the lagoon to the grand huge
dashing breakers as they rose over the reef, glancing
in the sunlight, just as I had seen them when I
first landed, against the dark pure blue of the ocean
beyond, I felt as if God were indeed revealing,
unveiling Himself to me, drawing me near to Him,
folding me in His dear arms, speaking to me of the
beauty and tenderness that was in Him and that
He was longing to pour into my heart, and the
hearts of all men. There was no sense of loneliness
now — only of the presence of One infinitely
good and loving — a sense of all-embracing love and
beauty and of abiding harmony and peace. I understood
those words which I never had before — "the
love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord."

Combined herewith, there was a wonderful consciousness
of new spiritual life and power in my
soul, which something seemed to tell me was
having " the mind of Christ ; " and it was as if He
had come to me from the bosom of the Father to
dwell with me and help me to enter into His own
exceeding peace and jos, His own communion and
oneness with God. Then I read the 17th chapter
of St. John's gospel, and looked up into heaven,
and gave thanks and prayed, and rejoiced as I had
never, never, done before.

And so it came about that existence now was
something very different from anything I had previously
known. The beauty and peace around me
were full of comfort and companionship because I
looked on it all as the revelation, the countenance
of Good. I understood the feeling of the Psalmist
when he said, "Though I walk through the valley
of the shadow of death I will fear no evil; for Thou
art with me," and of the Lord Christ when he said
in his deepest trouble, "Yet I am not alone, for the
Father is with me."

Hence I could now once more give myself up to-the
enjoyment of the changes from "rosy-fingered
dawn " through the long day of soft yet invigorating
sunshine, to the stillness of the bright summer
noon, when the solemn shade of the great woods
was so refreshing, on to the brief calm twilight
hour with the sunset hues lingering in the west,
and perhaps above all the brilliant moon-lit nights
VOL. II. 33

with their radiant starry skies . . . For in looking
on all these I felt I was communing with — •
being drawn very near to, God ; and when I turned
from that loving shelter to other thoughts and
duties, I was like a child just set down from the
father's arms, and left to run alone joyously hither
and thither, in glorious freedom and perfect security,
and I went about my daily tasks rejoicing, knowing
that I had always that sweet shelter and loving
embrace to return to, when my work was done.

Nearly in the centre of the island there was
a magnificent mountain, evidently of volcanic origin,
and chiefly of basaltic formation. Both at dawn
and sunset the hues reflected from its peak and
varied by broad belts of coloured rock or of dense
foliage, were singularly beautiful. During the first
months of my sojourn it was a great delight to
climb those heights and look right away over the
deep blue ocean ; and if I thought I could descry far
'distant shores, or if a sail passed into view though
leagues distant and soon disappeared, there was a calm
delight in thinking how securely I was removed
from all the strife and distraction of the old world
with its misery, frivolity, and sin. But when I fell
into the weak, desponding state above mentioned, I
could not bear to climb that mountain. Fears and
nameless horrors, as I said, haunted my steps; and
once when I had gained a considerable elevation
above the sea and saw far, far away, the white
wings of a stately craft pursuing her course, soon

to vanish from my sight, I flung myself on the
ground in a passion of unmanly tears. " Soft water
indeed," I moaned to myself, remembering dear old
Ellerslie's joke in a gilded ball-room.

Now, thank God, all that had passed, and I could
again climb my beautiful mountain in peace, and
look away to the sunset and the western sky with
a glorious hope and joy.

Still, I could not yet think calmly on the past
scenes of my life, or read any of the books I had
brought with me which dealt with the busy crowded
life, from which I was, perhaps for ever, separated.
Not even my once beloved Shakspeare or any of the
more modern histories and biographies, in which I
had so delighted, could I bear to look at. But in
the histories of far-off times, the Greek tragedies
and legends — especially in many portions of
the third and fourth cantos of Byron's " Childee
Harold," in his grand tragedies, and portions
of "Manfred," *' Heaven and Earth," the *' Corsair,"
the " Giaour," the " Hebrew melodies " and
other of his poems, I found a wonderful solace.
They gave me the change and refreshment I needed
as a diversion from other thoughts, and set my imagination
healthily to work — while much of Byron's
and Wordsworth's poetry harmonized with my deeper
and holier feelings. For I recognized in the first
of those poets as I had often done in earlier days,
that here was a profoundly religious soul, searching,
sometimes blindly, sometimes madly and viciously,

33 -2

sometimes with divine, unemng love and passion, for
the higher and happier life for which it felt itself
created — seeking for Him who is the Fountain and
Life of all Love and Truth, Beauty and Joy, in whom
I myself had at last found perfect rest. For the
same reason much of 'Wordsworth's poetry, Tennyson's
noble "Idylls," "Philip Van Artevelde," some
of Shelley's and Coleridge's, and especially of Milton's
poetry, exerted a very sweet and soothing
power, now that I had found the true answer, the
mighty spell, which solved the mysteries of the
Universe.

Yet none of these writers gave, or could give,
me the last and crowning guidance which alone could
finally lead me to the Home I was seeking. For
that I had to go back to some of the books I had
learned to value in the later days of my imprisonment
at Aldclyffe Priory, and had therefore brought
with me, such as " Thomas Kempis," Fenelon's
Meditations and Letters," Leander's " Memorials
of the Christian Church," some of the Lives of the
Saints, especially of St. Francis of Assisi, and Catherine
of Siena ; for these mightily helped me to
throw off the curse of selfishness, the ever-brooding
shadow of one's own desires, fears, and interests.
They helped me to learn of greater saints, St. Paul
and his Divine master — enabled me to conquer again
and again, with increasing success, self-will and self-seeking
— helped me to sit with Jesus at the Last
Supper, to kneel with Him in Gethsemane and to

endure my cross with Him on Calvary. When I
was able to give myself up wholly to the Will of
God, realizing how entirely and absolutely it was
a good will, for myself and all men, for Time and
Eternity — when I was willing to suffer all that He
saw it was good for me to endure, when I could
look beyond that suffering and see the divine
and infinite blessedness it was preparing us for —
when I also saw that our sufferings must in someway
help and bless other beings, and when I could
rejoice, therefore, *' in tribulation " because it was
in unknown ways bringing healing and peace not
to myself alone but to some poor ailing mortals
then first I felt I was really entering into
my true Eest. . . And all these thoughts found
their true explanation in the wonderful words of
Christ to his disciples. John xvi. 20-22. . . .
Then, first, I hieiu, what before I had only thought
that Sorrow is to be honoured as the Matrix of
Gladness, and Suffering to be welcomed as the Mother
of all abiding Joy.

Among the books in my chest I found a little
volume given me by one of my sisters during my
confinement, called " The Mystery of Pain," by
James Linton. I had not read it at first with much
interest, but was very glad to find it now ; for it
unfolded with singular power and beauty many
noble thoughts, and especially the last I have just
mentioned, viz., that our own sufferings besides
fitting us, as nothing else could, for heavenly happiness

and perfection, were in all probability the means
of bringing good to others. So this also lighted
up my island life thenceforward with an indescribable
peace. The Lord (exod walked with me in the
early dawn and evening light, and many a time His
Christ talked with me by the way. My solitary
cave was the abode of Divine and celestial visitants,
and " the glory of the Lord shone round about "
my dwelling and my heart. How many of those
whom I have known in former days, how many of
the critics I did not know but suffered from, would
call all this a madman's raving, or at the best, mere
** goody-goody talk." Aye, but let them live in
Silvio Pellicle's dungeon for a year, or on this solitary
island of mine — I think they would sing a
different song. " Yes," they would perhaps answer,
because then we should become half-crazy." But
supposing we are created for companionship with
Grod and His Christ, and cannot be brought to the
true perfection and blessedness of our being except
through some such experience, will it not probably
be provided for us all — in another ivorld, if not in
this?

One evening when I had been on the mountain
all day and was beginning to descend,
my eye was caught by the beautiful apparition of
Venus, the Evening star, which, though near her
setting, shone out brilliantly in the clear twilight
glow of the western sky in all her radiant loveliness.
As I gazed, how could I help my thoughts fleeing

across the ocean to one whom I had once worshipped
!

Bright and beautiful " Lady Silver-Star," shall weever
meet again ? . . .

Yes, in that world where " they neither marry
nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels in
heaven." Oh, my darling, there, there I think we
shall meet again. . . Do you ever think of me
now ? . . .

One night, a few weeks after that expedition, I
woke oppressed with dreams of the past, and, unable
to sleep again, I went out on the turf beyond my cave.
The scene was unspeakably beautiful, for the sky
was glowing in all its tropical beauty with the light
of myriads of stars. But there, high up in the
heavens, was the radiant planet I had recently seen
from the mountain side, shining with all that immortal
brightness and beauty which men have worshipped
for ten thousand years. Its lustre burned
in this Southern sky, as indeed even in our colder
clime, far beyond all the other starry lights of
heaven. . . . Was it not even so with my
beloved ? . . . None among women, whom I ever
saw, rivalled her in that union of brightness and
sweetness, of sparkling brilliancy and loving tenderness
which, as in looking at that planet, made one
long to sit quietly gazing at her — asking no other
joy. There were many beautiful stars in the heavens,
and the Southern Cross was splendid; and for a
moment I thought, as at other times, I recognized

my own beautiful planet in some inferior orb. But
we never mistake for any other planet, the true
Goddess of Beauty, Venus, when once we behold her.
Even so was it with my Star-crowned Queen . . .
Heaven shield her !

Time wore on. Sometimes I went up to the
look-out, the flag-staff I had reared on the headland.
And though there was peace in my heart I found
that the love I felt to God and His love to me did
not make me care less but far more for the earthly
friends who had loved me once, whom I had loved
so truly though so selfishly, and from whom I was
now parted. So that from that lofty eyrie my
thoughts went out to the beloved ones as I watched
the far-off horizon of great waters, and my heart
ached as I turned to come home to my cave. I
had no feeling of resistance to God's will, and I
knew He would do, and was doing, all that was
best for me and for them. But I whispered to Him
that He had said, alike in the constitution of our
Nature and in Scripture, that it was not good for
man to be alone — no, not even in Paradise — not
good to be always alone even with God. And
sometimes when the spirit was willing the flesh was
weak, and my mortal human nature pined and
craved for human companionship and love.

So I had come down that evening from the flagstaff
with rather a heavy heart; but before I went
to sleep had won the victory, wrestling with the
Tempter against doubt, despondency, and fear, when

I was awakened in the darkness by the sound of
crashing trees and roaring waters. A cyclone was
passing over the island, and in the midst of the
hurly-burly I distinctly heard the dull heavy boom
of a great gun. I started up, hurried on my clothes,
and sprang over the palisade fence outside my
dwelling. It was pitch dark. Another report — and
then another. Then rockets went up; and a port-fire,
throwing its Ibid gleams far and wide, showed
me a vessel driving on the reef beyond my little
lagoon. It was a terrible moment, for I was utterly
powerless to bring the poor creatures in that tossing
vessel any effectual help. But what would I not have
given to save even one of that doomed ship's company
! Strange that the first ship which had neared
my prison shores, since I came, should be dashed to
pieces upon them. . . . All I could do was to
light a beacon-fire as nearly as possible opposite the
opening in the reef by which I had first entered,
in case any boat could live in the raging sea outside.
Of that however there was scarcely the barest chance.
Ere long the gun ceased firing; one last blue-light
showed the hapless vessel dashing with terrific force
against the reef — one loud cry for mercy and then
a yell of despair rose up, and came borne to me
through all the raging of the storm, and I knew the
end had come.

With the first dawn of light, sufficient to show
me the exact position of the opening in the reef,
I stripped and, with only a light overcoat fastened

round me, and with the two life-buoys and ropes I
had brought in the cutter, fastened on my back, I
swam across the lagoon to the rocks where I saw
the ship strike. I had often done this before but
now the waves even in my little lake were running
high and I had a difficult task to reach the breakwater.
When I did, it was a dismal scene in that
faint morning light. The vessel had been grinding
heavily against the rocks and was now breaking up
into great fragments, on some of which I could just
see human forms and hear their piteous cries for
help. But they were rapidly swept past me and far
out to sea, while the huge waves breaking over them
left no chance of their long remaining on the pieces
of wreckage to which they clung. Two or three fragments
however and some big casks, caught in an
eddy, drifted towards what I called the harbour-gates
of the reef and were quickly forced through the
opening by the violence of the wind. The casks I
secured the next day, and, to my immense delight,
before I left the reef I was able at the risk of my
life to save a couple of dogs that were frantically
barking and howling on a floating bit of wreck. One
of the poor animals kept licking my face while under
my arm during the process of rescue ; and the demonstrative
gratitude of both was very delightful,
hungering as I had long been for a little affection.
One of the fragments of wreckage seemed almost
alive, and to my great surprise, as it neared the shore
of the lagoon, I saw about a dozen large rats leap

into the water, swim ashore, and scamper up to the
woods as fast as they could scuttle. This was nota
pleasant sight, for I feared the consequences, and
was doubly glad to have rescued my four-footed
friends, as they proved to be thorough-bred handsome
bull-terriers, male and female. But it seemed a
strange instance of the irony of Fate (whatever that
may mean) which allowed these mischievous creatures
to escape, while the nobler human beings all perished.
Only two bodies came ashore, and I buried them
next day. One was a fair-haired handsome lad, about
seventeen, for whom there would doubtless be sore
hearts aching at home some day, when " hope deferred"
had changed to despair. The other was a
fine manly-looking fellow, middle-aged, who had
evidently fought hard for his life. Both were in the
neat regulation dress of common seamen. It was
melancholy work, interring the poor fellows, and as
I pressed their cold hands before shovelling in the
earth and turned away from the graves, I thought
to myself, Shall I never again see a human face except
when cold and dead — dead — and cold ?

But the companionship of my two new friends was
very refreshing. It was a curious sensation to be
awakened the morning after the wreck by one of
them licking my hand, while their exuberant delight
in bounding over and rolling on the soft green sward,
and in frolicking round me, just as in the old happy
holidays at the Priory, and then rushing at me with
their loud eager bark of joy, like merry happy schoolboys,

all this shook new life into me, almost as well
as Fred himself could have done it; and I began
praising Him who gave me a new sense of life and
happiness, and " put a new song in my mouth,"
literally as well as figuratively. For having now to
talk and shout to them, I was no longer startled
at my own voice, but lifted it up in singing old songs
till the woods rang again. And among those songs,
certainly more than one was a chaunt of thanksgiving.
I had been rather exercised in my mind as to
how my dogs would take to a vegetarian diet, for I
had little else to give them at first but bananas and
bread-fruit. They, being ravenously hungry, greedily
devoured the former, but never took so kindly to the
other. Before long however they managed to inform
me that some portions of the fish I had learned to
catch in the lagoon were acceptable, and that the
sea-fowls' eggs which I could often collect abundantly
were delicious. Though not naturally water-dogs they
soon took to bathing when I led the way, for I had
long since found the sharks which abounded outside
the reef in deep water never ventured, apparently,
into the shallow waters of the lagoon. So we had
many a pleasant bathe together in the delicious
mornings, or when we wanted to cool ourselves in
the heat of the day. Finding they enjoyed a fish
dinner, I gave them a few hints as to catching their
prey for themselves and was often mightily amused
at their zealous, though rather clumsy attempts at
hunting this novel kind of quarry. The gentleman

of the pair I named " Rattler ' after a beloved friend
of my boyish days, of the same species, and the lady
I termed "Marina" in token of her having come tome
by the sea. As I let them dash about on land
as well as in water wherever they pleased, I suspect
they sometimes fortunately came on the tracks of
the escaped rats, and got a little animal food byway
of venison. But the rats burrowed ; and bred
fast, and alas, in time became a terrible nuisance.

'^^uJ^J^^

i

^^'i^%i^'

The foregoing extracts from Wilfrid Dayrell's journal
explain pretty clearly how he fared in consequence
of his sudden resolve to leave England. To understand
the results of that step as regarded Lady Stella
Faulconhurst, we must glance at what went on in
her Portman Square establishment, after his departure.


It has been already sufficiently seen how that most
captivating and capricious young lady was alternately
plunged into sorrow and remorse after her treatment
of her lover in their last interview, and then into
the rush and whirl of London gaiety during the
height of the season. Sometimes she encouraged,
sometimes snubbed, her numerous admirers — was brilliantly
gay and mirthful at one time, and proportionately
miserable at others. The Professor when
he got a chance of speech with her, saw that she
was in far too tempestuous and excited a state of
mind to care for his guarded attentions ; but she
seemed to have repented of her rudeness to him,
and treated him with graceful courtesy, mingled, no
doubt, with levity. Hence he continued, at intervals,
to pay those attentions, for he was quite as much
in love as a man of his temperament, character, and

pursuits could well be. But Mrs. Grrey saw with
anxiety and at length with distress that her niece's
health was suffering under all this " stormy stress "
and began gently to hint that the grounds at
Hurstleigh Manor would be " looking very pretty
now, and that the country generally must be lovely."
Lady Stella, however, could not bear the idea of
leaving London, though she alone knew why. The
fact was that she secretly clung to the hope of hearing
some tidings of the wanderer by remaining in
town. Every morning she carefully scanned the
shipping-list and " Lloyd's news " in the Times ; for
Mrs. Dayrell's letter, though unpalatable in other
respects, had done her what she felt to be an inestimable
service by mentioning the name of the
vessel in which her son had sailed. Hence Mrs.
Grey's suggestions were promptly declined, and
various engagements were pleaded as a reason for
remaining in town.

"But you don't seem much the better, dear, for
all your gaieties," said the aunt.

No, really ? " replied her niece. " That is
curious. Such a sensible, useful sort of life ought
to make one a great deal the better for it. It is
so pleasant to be revelling in enjoyments of every
kind while many other people are pining and
starving on 2d. a day, as the Times informs us they
are."

"Why not do something to help the two-penny
half-penny people, then ? " said her cousin Frances

gaily, '' if the thought of them interferes with your
enjoyment, as from your last speech I fear it does."

How can I help them ? " asked Stella gloomily.

Take a leaf out of that admirable tale of Mr.
Besant's," replied her cousin, " ' All Sorts and Conditions
of Men.' I hear that in consequence of that
book, a generous-hearted lady has opened a cooperative
dressmakers' establishment in Shadwell.
Go and live there and help her. Mamma and I
will come and see you sometimes in your own
carriage — even take tea and muffins with you —
which will give you importance in the eyes of the
locality."

I have a great mind to do so," responded Stella,
'' and I always much admired Miss What's-herne,
the brewer's relation."

In the meantime," pursued Frances, " here's
another bright idea for you. Send for Homunculus
and take him with you to Penny Headings where
Mr. Ellerslie can lecture on the " Descent of Man."
(The monkey was never allowed to come to London
when his fair young mistress migrated thither. She
didn't mind seeming eccentric in the country, but
it would not do so well in town.)

'' Yes," chimed in her aunt. ** Relax the ' Five
Mile Act ' as you call it (I don't know why), and
let him come. He would certainly help to cheer
you up."

"I am greatly obliged to you both," said Lady
Stella, rising and curtseying. "But though I don't

mean to leave London just yet, I shall give up all
parties and other frivolities. You look mystified,
dear aunt, but it is true. I intend becoming
serious,' and should not therefore enjoy the sportive
mirth either of London fribbles in general or of
Homunculus in particular. Besides late hours are
bad for the health, the temper, and the complexion.
If I take to reading and believing in the Bible as you,
sweet cousin, do, from Genesis to Revelations (which
I probably shall, like another famous personage,
when I am sick), I might some day poison Professor
for his sceptical scientific theories, and Homunculus
for too closely resembling the aristocracy
Keep them both at a distance. They are all
children of Satan."

Long experience had given Miss G-rey the wisdom
to discern or divine her cousin's real purposes
through the veil of her sarcastic observations. It
was quite true that Stella, heart-sick and thoroughly
weary of London dissipation, had been more and
more impressed with the accounts she often read
in the newspapers concerning the sufferings and
privations of the poor seamstresses and dock
labourers of the East-end, indeed of almost all
classes of the industrial population, whether in or
out of employment. Fred Ellerslie had conveyed
to her some idea of what Dayrell and he had been
talking over shortly before his friend's departure ;
and he had faithfully fulfilled his promise in regard
to the rebuilding of cottages on both ]Mrs. Dayrell's
VOL. n. 34

and Lady Stella's estates. Something had consequently
been done in those quarters, and certainly
not before it was wanted. There had also been
considerable talk about reviving or importing Village
Industries and providing " three acres and a cow " for
each capable peasant. " Lord Tollemache's admirable
example, of course, ought to be followed. Why
was it not ? " asked philosophic Fred. The excellent
" Home Arts and Industries Association " was
cordially welcomed by many titled ladies, while the
Society for Promoting Industrial Villages " was
looked at from a distance with contemplative interest
and amused curiosity. Everybody said something
must be done ; but, so far, nobody did it,
except these excellent ladies and their fidus Achates.
It required somebody like Lady Stella to take the
lead, and her heart had gone cruising in the South
Seas. Yet she longed with unappeasable longing
to be of a little use to the world, and she was —
vicariously, through EUerslie.

She had also been of some use, it is true, quite
lately, in a more sentimental way. For Ellen
Dayrell having fixed the day when her philosophic
lover was to be rewarded for his faithful suit. Lady
Stella stood by the altar as one of the bridesmaids,
overcoming an intense repugnance to the office, and
veiling both then, and at the wedding breakfast, a
profoundly restless and dejected heart under a kindly
sympathetic countenance.

Human motives in each human heart, as it has
occasionally been before observed, are no doubt often
much mixed ; perhaps adulterated would be the
more correct expression if only the bulk of our
motives were generally good, and the selfish or
otherwise objectionable ones were but as the homoeopathic
adulteration employed by respectable tradesmen.
Unfortunately experience gained by self-knowledge
and knowledge of the world, inclines
aged philosophers to the opposite conclusion.
Nevertheless it is well to rejoice in knowing that
often when censorious critics may imagine there is
nothing but selfishness, vanity, or greed impelling
a fellow-mortal to a particular course of action,
there may be an amount of noble disinterested self-sacrifice,
for a lofty purpose, and growing from deep
devoted love, which the censorious critic would be
fortunate if he possessed.

After that tempestuous yet interesting young
Dayrell had left England, and Lady Stella had time
to meditate, now and then, on what had passed
between them, as well as on his character and
purposes, there had arisen in her mind, amidst
all the distractions of her life and the conflicting

34—2

emotions of her heart, a grand, though at first dimly
seen, vision of self-sacrificing heroism, in which
Wilfrid Dayrell was the hero. She felt that his
character and motives, however mistaken his mode
of action, stood the searching, even scorching tests
to which in her perpetual questioning she subjected
them — felt that they were genuine and true. She
still often thought him fantastic in his aims, and
either too sentimental or too puritanical ; but if he
were absurd or mistaken, what were the people
among whom she was then living and moving?
The world in and for which they were existing,
the world of fashion, frivolity, and pleasure, she
was certain was hollow, unsatisfying, and even deadly
in its influences and results. The missionary life
in which her discarded lover had gone to dwell,
to which he had vainly, perhaps fanatically, tried
to allure her also, was at all events a noble and
generous realm of being ; and something whispered
to her that she had missed her true vocation as
well as her highest happiness when she drove him,
by her cruel words and taunts, to rush forward
on his wild crusade with lacerated affections
and despairing heart. The look he had given her
as he left her presence for the last time haunted
her often in silent hours — in the solitude of her
room — sometimes even in a crowded salon. A few
of those silent hours, however, were spent in a
neighbouring church where that singularly earnest
and eloquent preacher, Dr Elvers, held forth both

on Sundays and occasionally on week-evenings. She
had heard so much of this clergyman that at last
finding he had become the incumbent of the said
church, she forced herself almost in desperation to
go to it, and after the sermon came away actually
saying quite seriously: "I never heard anything
like this before." After that it was believed in the
family she went again and oft again.

Having suddenly given up all parties and engagements,
she was puzzled now how to explain to Mrs.
Grrey her reluctance to leave London, but she was
not perplexed long. One morning in Lloyd's list
of " Shipping news," her hungry eyes caught sight of
the following item — " Southern Queen, barque, arrived
Apia, Samoa, from Auckland, in charge of
first mate. Captain died on voyage from delirium
tremens. Only passenger, Wilfrid Dayrell, Esq., put
ashore at the Tonga islands by his own request.
First mate absconded ; second mate and crew in
custody."

That was a dreary morning for Lady Stella, and,
in her trouble, her aunt once again received her full
confidence.

*' What shall we do, dear ? " said Mrs. Grrey,
resting Stella's head on her bosom.

Send at once, dear Aunt, to Mr. EUerslie. Ask
him if he can call here on his way to chambers.
Now that he is Wilfrid Dayrell's brother-in-law we
TYiay consult him. . I think he knows something
of the interest we feel in , . . The way

in which he spoke to me the other night . .
and his look when I said we had heard nothing
. ." — then she had to stop.

Mr. Ellerslie had left home, but was summoned
from Lincoln's Inn and arrived at once.

I will telegraph immediately to the agent at
Auckland," he said. " But we can't telegraph to
Apia. He must write there. And then I think we
should advertise."

'' Who, where, how ? What do you mean ? "

The young barrister quickly explained and withdrew.
His newly-wedded wife came in the afternoon
and found all Lady Stella's customary hauteur or
sarcastic frigidity were gone, and without a word of
explanation, the two girls understood one another
at once, and were mutually a little comforted.

The reply by telegram was unsatisfactory, and
another produced a not much better result. Nothing
remained but to wait on the slow!) medium
of correspondence ? No. The advertisements, and
inquiries at the offices of New Zealand shipping
houses in the City, also of one or two leading
ship-brokers, brought some doubtful rumours from
captains of vessels lately arrived via Suez Canal, from
Auckland and the South Seas, regarding a mutiny
on board the " Southern Queen," and of the one
passenger who wanted to visit the Friendly Isles
being sent adrift in an open boat. All this coming
on Stella's previously exhausted nerves was too much
for her strength. She fell ill. The doctor said it

was only a slight attack of nervous fever — not
dangerous. But Mrs. Grey, knowing her mother's
constitution, and last fatal illness, was anxious and
unhappy. In poor Stella's feverish delirium one
night her aunt, who would let no one nurse her at
first but herself, saw her by the dim night lamp
stretching forth her hands and crying, " Come back
to me, Douglas, Douglas ! come back to me Douglas,
tender and true." In vain her aunt tried to soothe
her by saying " Yes, my darling, he will come back
to you " — she only cried the more vehemently,
Come back to me, Douglas, Douglas, and bring
thy God with thee ! He shall be my God — if He
will look on me." Presently she turned with flushed
cheeks and piteous imploring eyes to her aunt,
asking her if she thought it was too late ; and
then, in spite of all Mrs. Grey could do, she rose
half up in bed, her long hair falling in masses on
her shoulders, and began singing that saddest of
sacred songs —

Too late— too late— ye cannot enter now."

*' Anything more sad and touching," said her
aunt next morning, the tears in her eyes, " than to
see and hear that girl singing that song in the
dead of the night with her whole soul in it, I
could not conceive. I knew it was better not to
forcibly restrain her, and when she had repeated
the last verse two or three times, she sank back
saying, ' But you will plead for me, Douglas —
Douglas — will you not ? And you always said your

Grod was merciful.' Then she went off into a quiet
sleep, and you see she is much better this morning.
Poor thing." Then wiping her eyes and bidding
her own motherly heart rest in hope, Mrs. Grrey
went off to get the sleep she, herself, much needed.

The doctor was right, and his patient soon recovered,
but seemed considerably altered, not in
appearance so much, though she had lost the
brilliant hues of health, and was easily fatigued or
depressed ; but her general tone of mind and
temper were much changed. One thought seemed
constantly present to her — that her lover had been
turned adrift by the mutineers to perish, and that
she was the cause of his death. In vain Fred
Ellerslie and Mrs. Grey represented to her that
Dayrell had quite resolved to go to the South Sea
islands on missionary work before her last interview
with him. She replied that when they had
talked together of his expedition some time previously,
and she had given him sympathy instead
of scorn, he had intended going out in a regukr
passenger steam vessel either to Sydney or New
Zealand, thence going to the Friendly Isles by the
first opportunity to reconnoitre, and to see whether
and where he could make a home for her and cut
out a useful sphere of work for himself.

Had he done so he would have escaped the
consequences of going out in that horrid little sailing
vessel," she continued, " and might now be
happily prospecting among the Tonga islands, or

even be on the point of returning home to tell me
all about it. . . . But I have simply killed
him — nothing more — nor less*'

Ellerslie and his wife said and did what they
could to comfort her and themselves, as well as the
poor mother and sisters down at Aldclyffe Priory,
who were of course in great anxiety and distress.

Mr. Ellerslie learnt before long that one of the
sailors had turned Queen's evidence at Apia, and
that in consequence the first mate (who, however,
so far had not been apprehended) was found guilty
of mutiny and murder, as well as of sending Dayrell
adrift. The second mate was under grave suspicion,
but had been discharged on his own recognizance.
The rest of the crew had dispersed in various directions.
The only thing now to be done, therefore,
was to watch for the arrival in England of the
second mate, if he could be found by advertisement,
and at the same time to go on consulting with City
men.

The result of a prolonged interview between El-leslie
and two or three experienced ship-owners
and brokers in the city was that Mr. Dayrell's
friends were strongly advised to charter a small
swift steamer and send her out to cruise in and out
among the various settlements in Polynesia (beginning
with the Friendly Isles) to make inquiries if a
white man had been anywhere heard of as being
driven ashore in an open boat belonging to the
'• Southern Queen." A large reward was to be offered,

and the various mission stations to be applied
to one after another. This was accordingly done at
once, but the ladies were warned that it might be
twelve months before any results could be obtained.
It was a period of harassing anxiety, and for a short
time Stella's friends were in constant fear that
though she showed little outward emotion, she
would fail to recover health or peace of mind —
perhaps become a permanent invalid. But once
satisfied that her friends were doing all that could
be done to get the fullest information concerning
the wanderer. Lady Stella by degrees recovered,
not her former high spirits with their alternate
subsequent depression, but a calmness and tranquillity
that greatly surprised her aunt and cousin,
and, indeed, each of the very few friends whom she
now met and conversed with.

She could not have spoken about her views of
religious truth to any one — perhaps hardly knew
herself at first the secret of her new serenity. But
she had been carefully going over in her memory,
and with the help of notes made at the time, all
that Dayrell and she had talked about during his
illness, when she had felt most lifted up above the
trials, perplexities and temptations of her sublunary
state, and then collating them with Dr. Rivers'
sermons. Especially she loved to dwell on all they
had thought and said about the nature of true self-sacrificing,
self forgetting love. She began to think
that her conduct towards him, might possibly have

been altogether mean and ignoble — that the higher,
nobler part would have been to sink her own personal
and often foolish predilections, prejudices or
desires, and to have given herself away for his happiness
and highest welfare, losing herself in his life
as he was willing to give himself away for the
benefit of the Polynesian idolaters, and ultimately
of English workmen, to bring " life " to them, *' and
more abundantly."

As she dwelt on this thought she began to realize
the sweetness and beauty of a life of self sacrificing
love — even to feel something herself of its blessedness.
This conception had indeed, faintly dawned on
her in those dear old times when she knew that
Wilfrid Dayrell was awakening her, and (as he
said) himself, to a new and higher life — but it was
the purifying influence of sorrow, she also knew,
which was now making the light shine more clearly
towards perfect day. She began to ask herself
whether, as in certain other things, she had not
also been grievously mistaken in placing intellect
above moral and spiritual power, above Love, and
Duty, and beneficent labours for others ? She knew
that once she had thought she could have given her
life to loving service and in lofty sacrifice, but
only to some great genius, some soaring gifted intellect,
from whom she would look for no return of
affection, but in whose mighty thought and grasp
of truth she could find the full satisfaction for her
whole being. But now she settled that in thus

thinking she had greatly deceived herself. It was
becoming clearer to her, as she thought, that only
when, and so far as, she could learn to live in
the glory and joy of self-sacrificing benevolence and
love for the suffering and the sinful, the ignorant
and oppressed, that she could feel the objects of
her existence were being fulfilled, and that the
peace " which passeth understanding " would be
obtained. All sorrow and suffering she began to be
assured would be sweetened and blessed when met
in this spirit. *' Love makes suffering light," and
now she could understand the martyr's and the
mother's joy, the blessedness of the saints, known
and unknown, in all ages, in the midst of anguish
or desolate woe.

It was just about this time that Dr. Elvers, whom
she often went now to hear, happened to preach a
remarkable sermon on John iii. 16 ; (one of the passages
that about that very time, curiously enough,
was arresting her lover's notice), and x. 14-16, describing
in a very touching manner the love of Grod whoso
loved the world that He gave His only-begotten
Son . . . . " and the love of Christ seeking for
His lost sheep . . . . As Stella listened, she thought,
This, too, is very different from anything I used to
hear about Christ and Grod . . . Oh, how different I "
Then the preacher went on to appeal to his hearers to
trust that love — to believe that Christ was Grod's
answer to all our troubles. " Do you doubt it ? " he
exclaimed. " Ah, then, only reach out your hand,

even in thick darkness — it may be on the stormy sea,
where, like Simon Peter, you fear every moment you
will perish. Reach it forth, and if you do not find
your Deliverer waiting for you, nay, coming to meet
you, so full of love and tenderness, with out-stretched
hand, then all the history of Christian saints, heroes,
martyrs, is a delusion and a lie. But you till find
Him. You will feel the strong grasp of His hand in
the darkness, and you will hear His gentle, loving
voice saying, *Be of good cheer. It is I. Be not
afraid.' We do know in whom we have believed.
Millions of a noble army of martyrs, of sorrowing,
suffering, rejoicing disciples in all ages down to this
present hour have found Him faithful and true. Oh,
think it not strange that they and we have found
deliverance ! It was not in mockery, but in tenderest
love and truth, that he said, ' Come unto me all ye
that labour and are heavy-laden, and I will give you
rest.' Dear brethren, it is because the love of Grod is
shed abroad in our hearts by His holy spirit, and
because we have never failed to find our trust in that
love rewarded and blest, that we ask you who labour
and are heavy-laden now to trust it also, to come unto
the Deliverer and take His yoke upon you, and so
find rest to your souls. ' "

When Stella gained her room after that service, she
threw herself on her knees beside her bed, and
stretched out her hand in the darkness and storm, and
found the preacher's words came true.

Then she began a letter to her lover, not knowing

whether he was in heaven or still on earth, but her
heart was too full of love and gratitude to let her be
altogether silent :

Oh, my beloved, let me write, since I may not
speak, to you ; for some day, and somehow, I think
these lines will reach you ; and if they do I know they
will give you a little gladness. For they will show
you that all the pains you took with ray foolish, faithless,
selfish little soul were not quite thrown away, and
that we are nearer one another in spirit than we once
thought possible. Dearest Wilfrid, we are meeting in
Him to whom you so ardently, so lovingly desired to
draw me. He has now, in His fatherly love, drawn me
to Himself and — with infinite thankfulness for a great
deliverance — I too can say, * I know in whom I have
believed.' Yet it seems so strange, and I feel so
dreadfully afraid of canting, when I use words like
these. Can't you fancy how some of those sapient,
sneering critics, whom your friend, Mr. Ellerslie, once
described to you, if they could read in a book what I
am now writing (and very likely you also, if you are
still a mortal), would say with smug complacency,
And so these young simpletons went on, canting and
preaching in a most edifying fashion, writing and
thinking, or pretending to think, the approved regulation
thoughts proper for such occasions.' Blind leaders
of the blind ! ' Blessed is the man who . . . sitter
not in the seat of the scornful.' I sat there too long,
and found it not blessed but accursed. Well, there is
no test of sincerity, I imagine, like the scorching

flame of a great and terrible trouble, such as I, and
alas, you too, have lately known. And when light
comes to one in the midst of great darkness, and
heavenly peace succeeds the aching pain that seemed
to be rending the life out of you, how can we help
understanding all that had long seemed to us mere
foolishness ? How can I help telling you, at least, the
gratitude and love which fill my whole soul, to Him
who must have been leading me in ways I did not
understand at the time, but which I comprehend
clearly enough now, and who, the moment I yielded to
His drawing, took me to his heart, and brought me
out of darkness and pain into great light and peace.
These are not matters, I think, in which one can be
deceived. The difference between pain, anguish, and
peace is too great and real to be confounded with one's
imaginations and dreams. And now, by the answers
of peace I have received to my seeking and prayers, I
know that God is, and ' that He is the Rewarder of
them that diligently seek Him.'

"But even now all this is plain and consistent, it
seems to me, only when one sees that Grod's being,
schemes, purposes, all begin and end in love. Justin
proportion as that higher conception of the nature
of true, enduring love, has dawned on me, I have
been able to believe in Grod, in Christ, in the reality
of their care for us, nearness to us, communion with
us. Nothing less than a belief in, and (by experience)
a knowledge of, the infinite tender love of
our Father, and of His Son Jesus Christ, for us poor

mortals, can possibly enable me to understand or
trust to the revelation of Grod, and to what is called
the glad tidings of the Gospel, contained in the
Bible. It was because such wretched misrepresentations
of their meaning had always been put before
me, that I so intensely hated the very idea of what
was termed Eevelation or Christianity. My own truelove,
if thou art now in heaven, thou knowest how
grateful I am to thee for helping me to a clearer
knowledge of God and His dear Son, and for leading
me to listen to one of Their noblest servants. And
if thou art yet on earth, and dost still retain any
of thine old love for one who was not worthy of it, I
hope I may one dii prove that I have not altogether
failed to profit by thy teachings. For now I know
something of the love of God in Christ, and therefore
I know that He is not unknowable. Does one need
arguments to prove to him that there are exquisite
strains of music on the air when his whole soul is
tilled with joy by their melody ? . . . Experience
is worth all the arguments that ever were framed.
. . But I suppose arguments are often useful and
even necessary to lead us to make the trial which
brings experience — and if you hadn't plied me with
them when I was so naughty, I should not have been
prepared, perhaps, to take the helping Hand and make
the trial at a later day. Yet, after all, I believe,
trouble is of more use for that purpose than anything
else. At least I have found it so. . . . And then,
dearest, another great truth of which, you know, I

caught a glimpse in the olden days, has now been
made plain to me. Love in its highest form, Love
that is genuine and true, seeks to please and if
possible to benefit and bless the object of love —
cannot rest content merely with receiving and never
giving — else it decays and dies. And I know something,
however little, of the boundless love of Grod by
the blessings He has bestowed on me as soon as I
was able and willing to receive them. But if I make
no effort to repay His kindness and to return His
love by trying to please and to serve him, I have
little doubt, not that He would cease to love me,
but that I should cease to love Him. How can Love
be either tested and proved, or nourished, except by
the efforts and sacrifices we make for the beloved
one ? Suppose, now, that a husband says or thinks he
loves his wife, or a wife her husband, and yet neither
ever does anything to please, or help, and make the
other happy, — what will ere long become of such superfine
mere sentimental and emotional affection ? And
thinking in this wise, I began to understand better
what went on during that long sad time of separation,
when my father forbade our meeting, and I
was with him at the sea-side. You were working
hard to do what you thought would please me, and
to serve your fellow-creatures, but I was doing
nothing except trying to please myself, and caring
only for no end of folly and dissipation. While we
had been together in those (to me) most happy days,
the happiest of my life, I was always thinking what
VOL. n. 35

I could do to relieve the pain and weariness of your
life — but afterwards — ah me ! I became a very worthless
creature — and the best part of me, the only
thing in me that had ever been worth anything at
all, my love for you, drooped. . . . But it did not
die. . . . Yet how could I write all this if I
thought it was really going to meet your eye on
earth, when I know not even if 1 have not killed
outright the love which I do know you once felt forme!
. . ."

One other sermon by Dr. Eivers may be mentioned
which also made a deep impression on Lady
Stella, and of which she took full notes. It was
on Heb. ii. 10, our Lord being " made perfect
through suffering."

After dwelling on the value of suffering in purifying
the soul from worldliness and sin, in helping
us to understand and sympathize with the sorrows
and trials of others, in leading us to rest in Grod
as our loving Father, and "in His dear Son who
loved us and gave Himself for us," the preacher
continued thus :

"Hence, brethren, you may see that 'the just*
i.e., those who are justified, i.e., made righteous,
who have already drawn near to Grod through Christ
are 'made perfect' 'through suffering,' 1st, because
it is in the midst of those sufferings that
they make that final sacrifice of their worldliness,
pride, self-will, or other besetting sin, which in
happier hours they had so often failed to make.

and which nothing short of that sore anguish could
avail to accomplish. It gives them the occasion,
and prompts the impulse, to tear out the evil thing
from their hearts, and to surrender themselves
wholly, body and soul, to their loving Father's will.
And 2ndly, that trial-hour perfects them because it
gives them the occasion and the impulse to endure
for the sake of others. A fine preacher, addressing
young men preparing for the Christian ministry,
has said : ' Because you run untiringly, others
shall not weary ; because you walk steadfastly,
others shall not faint.' And I would now add,
Because you suffer willingly, others shall be saved
from anguish ; because you fight bravely, even
unto agony and death, others shall rejoice in
victory.' Yes, this is one of the most blessed of all
the sublime teachings of the final sufferings, the
Passion of our Lord — that Christian love, like
Christian piety, is made perfect only when it
accepts the cross for the sake of its suffering
brethren.

"But, my hearers, as regards our need of purification
from sin by the baptism of fire, as well as
in other respects affecting our human frailty, — our
Lord, when on earth, can scarcely have needed the
terrible anguish of his last hours to make Hin
perfect in respect of human frailty and temptation
to sin. I think that in those words of my text
the Apostle pointed to a deeper meaning. Was he
not thinking, or does he not make us think, of a

time (not necessarily in the last hours of their
life) that comes to all Grod's Saints — did come even
to the King of Saints, the Eternal Son Himself —
when they are sorely tempted in the midst of
their sufferings, in their Gethsemane and on their
cross, to doubt if God, who permits those sufferings,
can be wholly good and loving, or if loving
and good can be all-wise and all-powerful? Was
he not thinking of those beloved sons of Grod who
are tempted to shrink from their coming agony by
trying to persuade themselves that it cannot be
right, and surely not needful, that they should
thus be tortured ? Ah, has not this temptation
come even to some who know in their secret hearts
that they can escape that suffering only at the cost
of abandoning those who would be saved if one
were willing to suffer and die for them — only at
the cost of their own faithfulness to truth, to
justice, to freedom, and to Grod ? Aye, and who
are therefore tempted to doubt or to forget the
infinite blessedness which the Lord of Heaven and
Earth is always preparing as a result, and ever bringing
out of all suffering which is borne in love to
God and Man. Believe me, this is the highest joy
the heart can know here and in heaven, giving us,
even on earth, the foretaste of that rapture which
will be the fulness of reward hereafter." [The
preacher then quoted that striking passage in St.
John, xvi. 20-22.] " But if the sacred writer meant
all this, or if God by His holy spirit meant us

to see these deeper truths, involved in what he
says, was it not also meant we should understand
that if, when the saintly soul is thus sorely tried
and tempted, it nevertheless clings firmly to the
glorious faith and love of its earlier happier days,
honours G-od by not swerving from the declaration
and belief that He is good, only good, perfectly
good, and as wise and strong as he is good,
that He is always making all things work together
for good to those who will let Him — if, in short,
in the supreme moment of their greatest agony
they can still give themselves up to their Father's
will, and in love to Him and to their brethren
can say, ' Father, Thy will, not mine be done ' —
then, like Him, 'the Captain of the' salvation
the leader and therefore the Saviour of Men, then
they, too, are ' made perfect ' in a way and to
a degree which would have been impossible except
'through suffering.' . . .

"Grod grant that you, brethren, each in your
several spheres of discipline and labours of suffering
and of joy may know the unutterable blessedness
of giving yourselves up wholly to yom Father's
will alike in sorrow and in joy — and then assuredly
you will one day gladden that Father's and that
Saviour's heart by rejoicing 'with joy unspeakable
and full of glory ' in the many mansions of our
Father's home."

This sermon, at the request of many of the congregation,
was printed, and Stella kept a copy near

her to the day of her death. Shortly after hearing
it, she continued the letter she had begun to her
lover by giving him a brief description of it, and
then went on to say :

In listening to that teaching with a gratitude
I cannot describe, I felt that one of the sorest
troubles I have ever known, in the shape of torturing
problems, was being taken from me, and, I
think, for ever. But while turning it all over andover
again since, I saw, even as at noon-day, what
had only dawned on me before, that it is by living
a life of self-sacrificing love, in daily hourly labours
and acts of self-denial for the sake of others, that
we can realize the love of Grod for us, or know
that 'love of Christ which passeth knowledge,' or
truly understand what that love is working out for
those who have been made perfect through suffering.
*****

Do you remember, dearest, once quoting to me
that wonderful saying (was it not Spinoza's ?) — ' If I
love you, what is that to you ? ' I thought at the
time it pointed to a very profound as well as
thoroughly disinterested and most beautiful attachment
— a love which might be full of the noblest,
purest, most utterly unselfish acts of devotion, of
secret, passionate love. But might it not also
indicate a love which was wholly unfruitful in acts
of self-sacrifice, which was merely sentimental, and
therefore transient? . . . When I cannot work
for God, and Christ, and you, I know too well I

shall cease to desire as well as to deserve Their
and your love. . . . Nothing now appears to me
more strange than the changes which used to go on
in my mind with regard both to yourself and all
other men who now ' seem to me like shadows.
*****

But when at last I found that in my
despicable pride and folly I had thrown away the
love which in reality I had prized beyond all
else, I began to understand what I had read concerning
the mood in which women take the veil.
Motives, as you once said, are often strangely
mixed. Base and noble things seem to lie lovingly
side by side in one's soul. But I know that at
that time my most ardent, indeed passionate, longing
was to tear myself away from the hollow shams
and tormenting mockeries of our artificial, self-indulgent
life in society, and to find a refuge in
some calm, sequestered retreat such as I suppose a
well-ordered convent affords — where 1 could vary
meditation, reading, and prayer with works of compassion
and Christian love. . . . Well, believe
me, that is what I should now chiefly desire, and
probably secure, if I have to learn that you, dearest,
have left me alone on earth and are now safe in
heaven. But till I do know that, I must devote
my life to discovering and working out the means
of helping you to be happy and useful on earth."

END OF VOL. n.

Printed BY
KELLY AND CO., GATE Street, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, W,C
AND MIDDLE MILL, KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.



in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/ladystellaherlov03soll

CHARLES Darrell ; or, the Worship of Joy.

Crown 8vo. Price 3s.

•• The state of Oriel at the time, the influences which surrounded alike
the undergraduates and the Fellows, the new leaven working in the old
forms, the aspirations for freedom, purity, true beauty, and self-sacrifice
for the sake of others, the high ideal of a manly, noble life . . ' . are
exceedingly truthfully and vigorously portrayed." — The Chardin.

•• Oxford life set before us in a very lifelike way. . . . The scene
of this representation — ' The Bacchanals ' — is described with much
graphic force." — Spectator.

••This volume, though in the form of a fiction, embodies a vast deal of
experience and thought." — British Quarterly Review.

This, to us. deeply interesting and suggestive volume Its

teachings are pure ad beautiful." — Christian World.

•■ This is a good story . . full of thought and experience.
IMr. Solly skilfully keeps up the interest. . . . Its lofty aim is never
forgotten." — Nonconformist.

•' An eloquent exposition of what the author conceives to be the true
spirit of Bacchus. . . , As a picture, too. of Oxford life some sixty
years ago, it is well worth reading." — Pall Mall Gazette.

•' The conception is good, . . . The ideas of unbounded energy and
spontaneous joy in living." — Oxford Magazine.

•• In many respects Mr. Solly's hero is a fine character, quite uneducated,
but he sometimes does strange things'" —Cambridge Review.

'• The novelty and boldness of his main idea in this remarkable tale
cannot fail to command attention." — Illustrated London News.

•• For his spirit of generous sympathy with all forms of faith which regard
active benevolence as a cardinal virtue, no encomium could be too
large." — The Graphic.

THE SHEPHERD'S DREAM. Price 3s.

•• The poetical spirit and dramatic vigour of the Rev. Henry Solly's
Gonzaga,' published some time since, are more than equalled in his new
dramatic romance, to which he has given the title of ' The Shepherd's
Dream.' The scene of the play is laid in Suffolk and in London, in the
reigns of Edward VI. and Queen Mary, and the tender, fanciful love-story
which furnishes the element of romantic interest is skilfully interwoven
with tokens of the spirit of those troublous times. . . . The
character of the heroine. Lady Adela, whose natural playfulness of disposition
is allied with a strong will and deep earnestness, only requiring
meet occasion for their exercise, is sketched with remarkable subtlety in
Mr. Solly's beautiful semi-pastoral drama"— Z>rti7y Neivs.

JAMES WOODFORD : CARPENTER & CHARTIST.

Two vols. Demy 8vo. Price os.

"This work is calculated to have a vast influence for good among
working man'— Illustrated Carpenter and Builder.

AND HER LOVER.

Henry SOLLY,

AUTHOR OF "CHARLES Darrell," &C.

. . . . Ah, for some retreat
Deep in yonder shining Orient, where my life began to beat.
» « «- * « * «

Or to burst all links of habit — there to wander far away,
On from island unto island, at the gateways of the day.
Larger constellations burning, mellow moons, and happy skies,
Breadths of tropic shade and palms in cluster, knots of Paradise.
Never comes the trader, never floats a European flag,
Slides the bird o'er lustrous woodland, swings the trailer from the crag ;
Droops the heavy-blossomed bower, hangs the heavy-fruited tree —
Summer isles of Eden lying in dark-purple spheres of sea."

TE>-XYS0N. Locksley Hall.

IX THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

WARD & DOWNEY,
12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN

1888.
[All Rights Reserved, '\

KELLY AND CO., GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, W.C.

AND MIDDLE MILL, KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.

LADY STELLA AND HER Love.

CHAPTER I.

The opportunity for carrying this resolution into
effect was nearer than Stella thought, when she
wrote down those last words. The next day Fred
EUerslie called on her and she saw at once he had
some tidings of interest to communicate. He read
in her face the repressed anxiety she felt, and told
her at once that in consequence of seeing one of
his advertisements, a queer-looking visitor had called
at his chambers the evening before, and had been
sent up by his clerk to his house in Eaton Place.
When I was told," continued the gentleman, " that
a rough-looking man in the hall wanted to speak tome
privately, and I saw what a curious customer he
was, some of the recent stories of burglars and
bullies armed with chloroform, and life-preservers,
came cropping up in my cowardly memory, and as I
bade him take a seat in my study, I'm ashamed to
say I kept my eye on the poker and seated myself in
its immediate vicinity. However when the man
began to speak and, removing his huge wide-awake
VOL. III. stand

muffler, showed a pair of honest blue eyes,
and respectable mouth, I was quickly reassured.
Who on earth do you think it was ? "

'' Tell me," said Stella, in a hard harsh tone.

Why, formerly the second mate of the * Southern
Queen'"

Thank God ! " exclaimed Stella. ^•' Could he tell
you anything worth hearing?"

"Not much. But there's a clue — perhaps — "

Don't dawdle, Mr. Ellerslie. Kindly tell me
what you know." The young gentleman as he
looked at the lady was stirred with deeper sympathy
and pity than perhaps he had often known.

"I'll cut on. Lady Stella, as fast as our Oxford
eight. But don't look at me so mournfully and —
fiercely. Indeed, I've been doing my little best for

you."

"Forgive me — perhaps I'm unreasonable." She
turned away for a moment. "You are very good.
Go on."

Well, you know the * Southern Queen ' was
bound first for Auckland, New Zealand, and then to
Apia in Samoa, where further orders were to meet
them. After they left Auckland, this man says that
the Captain, who had been in the habit all along of
drinking pretty freely, went head over ears into the
brandy bottle, got delirium tremens, cut and thrust
and knocked the men about and at last got knocked
on the head himself and thereupon disturbed them
no more. Then they sent our friend adrift in a

small boat, but well provisioned, and the chief mate-brought
the vessel into Apia. There he duly reported
the circumstances to the English Consul,
who at once, selon la regie, summoned the captain
of a man-of-war, and the masters of two or three
merchantmen lying in the harbour, to hold a
Naval Court of Inquiry. The first mate's idea seems
to have been to get himself whitewashed, and then
to go on with the ship to some sunny "Isle of
Beauty " in the Pacific, and with the rest of the
crew, establish himself as Sultan or High Priest of
a Mormon Community in that favoured realm. But
before the court was held, chief mate finds that
the greater part of the crew were savage with
him for ever coming to Apia at all — were in mortal
fear when they saw the man-of-war there — and that
two of the men whom he had punished pretty
heavily more than once (for he was a hard cruel
disciplinarian like the captain, though he didn't
drink so freely), were going to * split ' on him, as-they
call it, i.e., turn Queen's evidence, and swear
to having seen him knock the captain's brains out.
So he * stepped ' it, quoth our new friend, up the
country ; couldn't be found high or low ; and the
court being unable to condemn any but the chief
mate, endorsed the second mate's certificate with
ugly remarks about * suspicious circumstances, &c.,'
and let the whole lot of them go."

Sad and strange," said Lady Stella after a
pause. "What now, do you advise?"

36—2

Well, don't you think the best thing would befor
you to see and question this man, yourself."
Yes, yes — you are right — "
** He is outside, now — in the Square."
*' Oh, thanks — a thousand thanks. This is very
good of you. Ask him in. Shall I send him a cup
of tea ? But let me see him alone. You can look
at the newspaper in the dining-room for a few
minutes — So ? "

All right. Ill bring him to the library. Yes — ■
it would be better to send him in a cup of tea
than a glass of brandy."

It was rather a trying moment for Lady Stella
when Dayrell's brother-in-law, having introduced the
quondam second mate of the " Southern Queen "
left her alone, face to face, with the sun-burnt,
TOugh-coated seaman ; and when all the circumstances
with which she had heard he had been connected
in the fatal business that ended in what was perhaps
the virtual murder of Wilfrid Dayrell, came thronging
with oppressive vividness into her mind. But when
she saw the frank honest expression of the man's
face and eyes which at once inspired confidence,
had got him seated, handed him the tea, and
asked him a question or two, she recovered her self-possession
and listened calmly, in appearance at all
events, to the young man's account of what took
place up to the time of their sending off the
cutter, and seeing the red light at her mast-head
far through the darkness. When the sailor was

describing the measures he had taken for furnishing
the little boat with all kinds of stores, Stella looked
up at him with a glance of gratitude that made
the young fellow's heart beat quickly. As he
concluded, he turned to her with rather startling
emphasis and said :

But you see, Miss, all this, as I'm a-telling
about, might bring me and others to penal servitude
or worse, if I can't trust to your honour to keep
it dark. But the young lawyer-gentleman swore
solemnly as I might trust both you and him."

"Surely, surely, ]Mr. Benbow — (I think he said
that was your name." The man nodded, a little
uneasily. " Every word you utter to me shall be
sacredly private. But I thought you had all been
before the Naval Court at Samoa and got cleared.
For of course they could not condemn the crew for
defending their lives against the drunken captain,
and though it was a wicked cruel thing to send
your passenger adrift, you did all you could to
soften his fate."

Aye, that I did. Miss, and I told the men it
was a d — d . I beg pardon, I mean a confounded
stupid trick to send him floating at all,
for his evidence might have whitewashed every man
jack of us. But they wouldn't hear of it. They've
a mortal fear of all chaps in broadcloth turning agen
them in court — and no wonder, poor beggars. The
land-lubbers, you see, — I mean the gentry — are
cursed hard upon common sailors ashore. And on

the officers too, sometimes, drat 'em. That blooming
Consul had no call to go endorsing my certificate.
I'm blessed if I can get a mate's berth now, and I
don't half fancy shipping as a fo'csle hand and
beginning all over again. Besides," continued the
man with a darkening brow, " I heard the other day
from an old pal that some fresh evidence had come
up — (from those grumbling beggars, I suppose), —
and I've been advised to keep out of the way fora
bit — though Grod knows I'm as innocent as a baby.
But you see, my lady, I must be soon earning my
living again, and I can tell you I'm dam — I mean
I don't half like sneaking about in this way under
an alias, and always dodging the Bobbies."

You shall never know what it is to want while
I can help you, Mr. Benbow," said Lady Stella with
a heightened colour which began to let a little
light into Mr. Benbow's chambers of meditation.
And perhaps," continued that young lady, " Mr.
EUerslie may be of some use to you through the
ship-brokers he has become acquainted with, in the
City. I'm sure he'll try, if you like to let him
. . But I don't at all understand, nor, I think,
does he, how you got away at all, from Apia, nor
what became of the chief mate and the rest of the
crew. But I suppose it's a long story, and doesn't
affect the main question . . ."

"Well, yes, Ma'am, it is a long story, and maybe
the less you know about it the better. But you
see I'm here now to do what I can to help any of

Mr. Dayrell's friends to learn what has become of
him — if so be, only, as they don't want me to put
myself in quod"

May I ask, Mr. Benbow, why you care to do
anything of the kind for Mr. Dayrell or his friends ? ''

Why ! " exclaimed the mate, dropping his big
wide-awake on the carpet and half rising from his
seat. " Because that 'ere young gentleman were one
of the truest, noblest-hearted young gentlemen as
ever wore dandy boots and a neck-tie, and because he
risked his life and limbs to save poor little Benny !
I'd go round the world to find him and bring him
back to his friends*'

When the man rattled out these words, Lady
Stella was uncommonly glad that she had asked
Fred Ellerslie to absent himself, and that she had
to stoop to pick up her handkerchief.

Mrs. Dayrell and Mr. Wilfrid's sisters, indeed all
of us, will feel deeply indebted to you, Mr. Benbow,

if But what is to be done ? How can we

discover what has become of this mislaid young
gentleman ? "

Well, Miss," replied Benbow, *' the first thing to
be done since you and the young gentleman's friends
could afford to do it, Mr. Ellerslie tells me has been
done already, and no good come on it."

Sending out a ship, you mean, to the Friendly
Isles, Fiji, &c. ? "

The man nodded.

Oh yes," continued Stella impatiently. " There

was a vessel despatched at once to the South Seas
by the ship-brokers of the ' Southern Queen ' as
soon as we heard that Mr. Dayrell had left her
before she got to Samoa. Every settlement and
missionary station was over-hauled, right through
Polynesia, and not the slightest trace of a white
man having landed anywhere from a ship's boat.
There's no good thinking more about that, the wise
men in the City positively declare. Was that the
only thing you called on Mr. Ellerslie to suggest?
If so " but she didn't finish the sentence.

The man seemed unwilling to speak, but said at
last — " No, not exactly."

Stifling her impatience, Stella tried another tack,
and began, " What reason did you say you had for
believing the eccentric young gentleman is still
alive ? His mother and sisters are very anxious
about him."

You see it lies here, Miss. Only please remember
this is all under the hatches. An old pal of mine,
first mate of the ' Four Brothers,' and me were
having a glass together down in Tapping t'other
day, and I told him a bit of my trouble, and then
he tells me how as he were a-coming home, when
they were off the Leeward Islands, they sighted a
small boat drifting, and sending their jolly-boat to
board her, they found she had belonged to the
Southern Queen.' But there, won't a soul onboard,
dead nor alive, and her kedge and half the
painter were gone as well. It was a cutter, too.

So I snowed it was the one as poor Mr. Dayrell was
sent off in."

But — but — why did that make you hope ? "

Why, because, don't yer see, there wasn't a bit
of stores on board her," answered the mate triumphantly.
" Every mortal thing, they said, had been
cleared out of her, save her ballast pigs. When I
heard that, don't yer see, Miss, I snowed, clear as
the Eddystone, that the young gentleman must have
landed somewhere, and had time to take out all his
stores afore the pretty little craft broke loose from her
moorings, unless indeed some of those darned savages
emptied the boat for him, which ain't a bit likely.
So ses I to myself when I heard all this, 'Thank
God, that fine young sprig may be living still, if
we only knew where to find him.' Though," added
the man pensively, " we may be cock-sure it's on
a desert island where he'll be."

Why so ? " inquired Stella.

Because, Miss, if he'd got among friendly natives
he'd have been able, long afore this, to have got
away to Fiji, or Apia, or leastways to have sent a
message there or summer's. And if he got among
a murdering lot — well, we won't talk of that. And
yer see, them wild fellows know the value of a good
boat when they sees it, so they wouldn't be likely
to let the cutter go adrift again if they had once
boarded and gutted her. Eh, Miss ? And then,
again, I know there are uninhabited islands, a plenty
of them, in them South Seas, a-near which we were

sailing when our young gentleman went over the
ship's side. . . . But what we want to know is
exactly where we were that blessed night — Heaven
help us, for there's only one living man could now
give us the chance of doing that, and I've a deal
more fear than hope as he'd care to help us."

*who is he, pray?"

Why, the man who was our first mate, a deuced
awkward-tempered chap, who alius seemed to have
a grudge against Master Dayrell because he kept
his self tidy and spoke like a gentleman."

"But keep to the point, please. How could he
help if he chose ? "

'' Beg pardon, Miss. You see, he kept the log —
and I rather think he walked off with it when he
cut and run from Apia. The boatswain looked high
and low for it to take into court, I know, for there
were all the regular entries, * loth Jan. 18 — . Lat.

Long. . Captain ill of delirium tremens

17th. — Lat. , Long. . Passenger, Wilfrid

Dayrell, demanded to be set ashore on the Friendly
Isles. Captain let him have cutter and stores for

£20. Cheque paid Captain. 18th.— Lat. , Long.

Captain died of delirium tremens.' Three-fourths
lie — one-fourth truth. But anyhow, Bob
Tarling (that's the chief mate) knew it would be
no good agen the sworn evidence of the two men,
and that it might some day be of use to him over
here ; so I guess he stowed it, and the Court couldn't
see it 'cos it won't there, and I'm darned if I think

it ever will be found till my chief gentleman likes
to hand it over. I shan't believe as he burnt it.
He wants to make prize-money out of it, that's my
notion. If I could only get a sight of it for five
minutes, I'd know how to steer."

And pray, how, may I ask, would it help you ? '
This way, my lady. The log would show me
just where we started the young gentleman on his
travels, and if I snowed thai I'd follow up his track
and run down on his harbour, sure as a gun-boat
on a Zambesi slaver*'

"Would the mate give up the log-book for a
round sum ? ''

He'd be precious close about it, for wherever
he be now, he's in hiding ; and he's one of the
most suspiciously beggars I ever comet across.
He's * wanted ' now, at all events, wherever there's
a bobby in plain clothes down the river-side, and
it's as much as his liberty's worth for many a day
if it were found on him. I won't say for sure, as I
didn't actually see the blow struck which quieted
the poor mad devil of a captain all of a heap, but "
(here the man looked round and lowered his voice),
*you see, my lady, it's my private belief Bob Tarling
gave him that little rap, and I don't blame
him. But then, to be tried for mutiny and murder,
you see. Miss, ain't no joking matter."

You have reason to think he is now in England ? "
I have, Miss. I think he's down in Shadwell at
this very hour."

*' Oh, let me beg of you — for Mr. Dayrell's mother's
sake — find him out, and — bring him here."

Where would be the good o' that, Miss ? We
want the log, and unless so be as we could get him

to give us that "

"I see," said Stella, "but how "

The young man noticed the sadness which now
came over the lady's features, and probably he felt
there was nothing he wouldn't do to help her.

"There's one thing, and only one as I knows of
could be done — and that I don't hardly like to name
to your ladyship. . . . "

Never fear — speak out — and I'll thank you."
"Why, it isn't the thing to speak of to the likes
of you, bliss. . . . But there, I've warned you,
and if you will have it, it's no fault o' mine, is
it?"

In the name of heaven, my good man, speak
out."

"Well, if he's living now in Shadwell, as 1 think,
and if you were a poor girl instead of a grand
lady, and you were living near by., say at a dressmaker's,
or a-helping in a shop, and he were
a-courting you, as for certain sure he would be if
he seed you, you might tell him as how the sister

or sweetheart "

Or his mother," said Lady Stella.
Or his mother, of course, I should have said,
wanted to know just whereabouts the young gentleman
was cut loose — well, he might then let you

see the log, don't yer see, Miss. Hope I've given
no offence. ."

The poor fellow began to fidget and look unhappy,
for Stella remained quite silent. Recovering
herself presently she said softly and without
turning her head :

Offence ! — no indeed."

"You see, my lady," rejoined the man, "I know
there's no sailing on that tack. I only meant just
to explain. Perhaps one of your ladyship's maids
if there's one of them half " "as good-looking
as yourself," he was going to say, but pulled up
short.

Could you not show me," said Stella, handing
the man a map, " how a copy of the entry in the
log-book would enable you to find our poor friend ? "

It's just this ways, Miss," said Benbow. " You
see we had to go first to Auckland with a general
cargo, so in course we went round the Cape of Good
Hope and got the wind and the sea with us bowling
all along here to Auckland " (tracing the ship's
course with his finger on the map). *then we
came up to the forrard here, towards the Samoan
group, with the rest of our cargo, but it was between
Auckland and Apia as the row took place,
and your — our young gentleman, I mean — was sent
adrift somewhere about here. Now I know he went
off from our starboard quarter, and the wind was N.E.
by E., if I remember right, and so he may have
got to * Savage Island,' as they call it, here, on the

charts, or he may have cast anchor on some little
island never heard of before. But that we never
can know, nor where he may be now, till we cast
eyes on that 'ere missing log and run him downright
away to his port."

*' Would not Mr. Ellerslie, the gentleman who
brought you here, be able to get a sight of it ?
He does not look so very much like a policeman in
plain clothes, does he ? Money would not be
spared."

Can't be thought of, Ma'am. Xot a chance that
way. It's only a woman could do it. Leastways,
that's my belief."

"But then what have I or anyone else got to
copy ? " asked Stella rather dubiously, " and what
will it, I mean the book, look like when I have
cast eyes on its mystical pages — if 1 ever do?"

Looked 'ere, Miss," said the mate, " every page
of a log-book is divided into columns just like
this," and he drew a fac-simile on a sheet of
paper. " Sow you see here's one column headed
Hours,' and here's the next headed * Knots ' (or
rather * Kts.,' for we cut it short), — then ' F.,' which
means ' Fathoms ' (but you needn't mind about
them) — then the next column, you see is * Courses,'
to show whether we were then sailing ' N.E. by N.'
or ' S.W. by W.' or anything else you please.
Then comes this column for the * Wind,' and then
come 'Remarks,' which is half buncombe, and you
don't ought to bother yourself about them nor the

wind nor the fathoms. But at the bottom of the
page you will see * Lat.' and ' Long.' That means
the latitude and longitude in which the ship is,
every day at noon. Now it would be enough for
you to copy these last, for then we could tell
exactly within a fathom or two where the good

Southern Queen ' lay when the young gentleman
went overboard, if it had been just about noon.
But as it was nigh upon 7 p.m. when he shoved
off, you'll have first to run your eye down the

Hours ' column "

Here poor Stella gave such a heavy sigh and shook
her head so hopelessly that the honest tar exclaimed —

'' Lor', Miss, I mean my lady, don't'ee be
down on your luck. Look here. I'll give you
this sheet, all marked out — see here are the
columns, properly headed, and here are the
figures, 1, 2, 3, &c., showing the time of day, and
all you'll have to do is just to whip out your
pencil and copy opposite this figure 7 the figures
and letters you'll see opposite. That'll be quite
enough for me when you fill in the latitude and
longitude. Don't trouble yourself to copy a word
more. Never mind ' Fathoms ' and ' Remarks,' and
all that gammon; but only study this sheet a bit
now, and again just before you or some one else
gets a chance of spying that blooming log ; depend
upon it you'll find it all come as easy as brewing
a pot o' tea." (He thought he was quite safe in
referring to tea.)

Lady Stella looked up with a more cheerful
smile — took the fac-simile sheet — asked a few more
questions till she thoroughly understood what she
ought to do, and then thanked the young fellow
with such genial warmth and courtesy that he
declared afterwards he felt " regular dazed like."
Finally she begged him to discover and at once
inform Mr. Ellerslie if the chief mate really was
anywhere at the East End — asked him to offer a
round sum for the log-book, and, in the meanwhile,
to let her pay him for his time and all expenses of
the search. Then she thrust a couple of sovereigns
into his hand, took leave of him with all that winning
grace which had often brought the "curled
darlings " of the habit ton into captivity, and swept
out of the room.

If help were coming to Wilfrid Dayrell from any
quarter, it appeared to be quite time it arrived.
For by more than one passage in his journal it is
evident that the utter loneliness of his life was
beginning, in spite of all his new-found faith and
hope, to tell seriously on his health, if not on the
stability of his reason. He had made various occupations
for himself, especially in gardening, constructing
walks, &c., and trying to build a boat as
long as his nails lasted. But now they had all
been used up — his tools were blunted or broken — he
became too weak to use his spade much ; and the
painful thoughts which had often been dissipated by
hard work came back on him again — not indeed
with their old torturing power, but in a way that
cost a hard and wearing struggle to cast them off.
Then the peaceful rest and sleep, which had been
secured by hard work, gave place to the restless
tossing to and fro, and harassing dreams, which
came from idle weary days and a vivid imagination.
Hence he appears about that time to have become
emaciated and feeble, to suffer from violent perspirations
at night, and from this physical weakness
to have had increasing difficulty in throwing off the
VOL. in. 37

hypochondria, a secret tendency to indulge in which,
as he confessed, had all his life been his besetting
sin. Day after day there were entries in his journal
to this effect — " Too lazy to work much to-day."
*fear I'm getting much weaker. Can't understand
it." "Played with those dear old dogs. Done
nothing else to-day beside reading and prayer."

Then came page after page of little interest to
many persons, but of value to others, as throwing
light on the great subjects which now fully occupied
his thoughts. The following extracts will illustrate
the way in which he dealt with them, and the
events which broke in upon his lonely existence.

More Extracts from Wilfrid DayreWs Journal.

During the long hours when day after day I
reclined, weak and languid, on the soft grass which
covered the low cliffs near my home, or sat on a
rock by the sea-shore fishing, I had leisure to look
back on my past life, and began at length to
understand more clearly some of its many lessons.
By degrees the lessons of other lives, the teachings
of history, of both public and private experience in
past ages and in the present day, blended with my
own individual aspirations, trials, dreams and joys until
many things became plain which I suppose I could
never have seen or understood had I remained in
the midst of that far-off busy European world.
Especially I got light on the matter that from my
boyhood had been of absorbing interest to me — that

Dionysiac cult, that ineffable worship of Joy, which,
under the overpowering influence of one whom I so
loved and honoured, had mastered my soul. The
more I reflected on the inevitable calamities of life,
on the wonderfully-contrived machinery everywhere
manifest for securing, especially as we advance to
manhood, a regular alternation of trouble and pain,
of difficulties, disease and distress, with the occasional
seasons of happiness and joy, the more certain
it appeared to me that this glorious life of boundless
freedom and gladness, to evolve which my
grandfather had consecrated his existence, was
possible and intended on earth, only for the season
of childhood and youth. But the more clearly I
discerned this truth, the more profoundly I felt
assured that the " Blessed Life " of which he and
Fichte, as well as certain ancient Greeks dreamed,
must be awaiting us in some other state of
existence, if only we could receive it, because he
had too deeply imbued my mind with his own
faith that we were created for such a life, for me to
doubt it now.

But then came another perplexing question with
which I wrestled day after day.

One lovely morning 1 had strolled along the cliffs,
watching the happy sea-gulls soaring through the
soft balmy air, or rocking gently on the blue waves
below — sometimes pausing to mark the golden
brightness flashing on the heaving ocean from the
rays of the rising or meridian sun — when I remember

the thought stealing over me like that
sun-light on the waters, that possibly I was in
error after all in making so sharp a distinction
between what might, or should, be our lot in this
world or in the next. I asked myself why we
must suffer so many things in this world, and the
answer again and again came back that it was to
prepare us for that glorious life hereafter, which
could be enjoyed only when we had learnt the
lessons and won the character which earthly calamities
were intended to teach and to form. But then,
thought I, if we could but become on earth all that
Grod desired us to be in order to fit us for heavenly
joy, sm-ely earth might then become heaven, and
beatific bliss might be our portion here. Not for
childhood and youth only would then be the
** Dionysiac joy"; and our mortal existence might
be full of harmony and sweetness — a Divine overture
to the more full and perfect music to be
performed hereafter. Did not the Son of G-od say
in regard to those little ones whom he took in his
arms and blessed, " Of such is the kingdom of
heaven." But if there were the purity of childhood,
its spirit of love and reverence, in the hearts
and lives of those of older growth, might there not bethe
joy and buoyant freedom of child-like hearts also ?
Perhaps — provided there were also the health of
healthy childhood, which there might be if we
were all wise enough and self-restrained enough to
secure it.

Yet how could this mighty change be effected ?
As I looked day after day over the scenes of beauty
with which I was surrounded in this terrestrial
paradise, and contrasted its innocent loveliness, its
fertile soil, its exquisite climate and perfumed,
soft, yet bracing air — which would have made (and
for a time had made), as I have said before, mere
existence a delight, but for my utter solitude —
contrasted them with all the sickening sights and
sounds, the daily wickedness and nameless horrors
of the great cities I had known in former days,
I thought to myself: Yes, I was right. Here,"
indeed, are all the outward conditions for health
and happiness ; but what then are these without
self-control, good temper, unselfishness, humbleness
and spirituality of mind, purity, self-sacrificing kindness
and love ? While even if some attained to
these virtues, the vices and crimes, the selfishness
and sins of others would often be amply sufficient
to disturb the peace and destroy the happiness of
those who were nearer than themselves to the
measure of the stature " of Christ.

All that I had ever heard of the character and
happiness of the natives of some of the islands of
the Pacific seemed distinctly to describe a Paradisiacal
state of existence, which, whether it had
ever existed in the Childhood of the world, in some
lovely " G-arden of Eden " by the " four rivers "
in the " land of Havilah," " towards the east of
Assyria," was certainly existing now in the islands

of Samoa and the Tonga groups, and on many
another coral shore of the Pacific. Then for the
fiftieth time I wondered whether those " Isles of the
Blest " were far from my lonely island, whether I
should ever reach them, whether any of my unhappy
countrymen would ever come from their
fierce competitive " struggle for existence," from their
back slums and crowded dens of vice, and wretchedness,
and crime, from their gilded salons and luxurious
abodes of selfish existence and unhallowed
enjoyment, and profligate wickedness, to dwell in
"love, joy, peace," amid the gentle natives of an
innocent, gladsome, childlike world. And then
again, oh, how I wondered whether I should ever
be able to aid in effecting such a migration, and
above all to help in renewing, at heavenly fountains,
the hearts and lives of those who might come from
the old country to dwell in the new Eden of this
younger and fairer world.

What if that sweet and smiling world were
destined only to be corrupted and laid waste
morally and physically by the vices, the diseases,
the rum and the opium, the licentiousness, and the
crimes of invaders from civilized lands beyond the
sea ? While I thus pondered, all the innumerable
wrongs and woes brought by Europeans on the
Polynesian and other heathen races rose up before
me, and I groaned like a fellow on the operating
table.

But meditating at another time on these and
kindred topics, as I watched for a sail from my
flag-staff, I thought of all the wonderful blessings
which have also been brought to the Polynesian isles
and many another heathen clime by Christian missionaries
; and how well the great and good Bishop
Heber's plea in the well-known hymn had been
responded to, till I found myself singing cheerily,
and in a tone which seemed to astonish my dogs :

Prom Greenland's icy mountains,

From India's coral strand,
Where Africa's sunny fountains

Roll down their golden sand;
From, many an ancient river,

From many a palmy plain,
They call us to deliver

Their land from error's chain."

Yes, Christianity has been a mighty, a glorious
power for good. But has it exerted one tithe of
the influence it should have possessed, had it but
been applied, as I believe its Divine Founder intended
— First, to make this world more like
Heaven, and its inhabitants more like the dwellers
in that fairer world ; and, Secondly, to help men to
understand what Heaven really means. Oh, what a
glorious word is that — " We are saved by Hope " —
and how little have we done to bring this means of
salvation home to the hearts of our brethren ! My
grandsire understood the thing. Look at what he
said at Oriel about " The Old Man of the Mountains,"
the chief of the " Assassins."

I now began to see, in the light of these
thoughts, more clearly than ever before, the meaning
and object of much that he had said and written
especially at Oxford, and much that he had done
and tried to do all his life afterwards. Amid the
various stages of experience through which I had sofar
passed, in the latter part of my Eton days,
during those four blissful years at Oxford, through
the brief turmoil and fascinating folly of " London
Society " dissipation, most of all when on a bed of
weary languishing, and now in this island of solitary
imprisonment, I had never ceased to feel that I
ought to live mainly to help forward in one way or
another the great thought he had first awakened in
my mind. The work had still to be carried on, and
I always thought that, as far as in me lay, I was todo
it. This is what he seemed to have asked of
me, and what I had hoped and longed with passionate
desire some day to do. Yet of late the
problem to be solved appeared for the reasons above
written more perplexing and insoluble than ever.

I thought I saw clearly enough that the only
chance of bringing heaven on earth was through
the agency of Christian influences, and yet I knew
that the so-called Christian British Government had
forced the opium trade on China, had introduced it
with horrible results into Burma, and fostered the
distillation of ardent spirits (finely called in Hindostan
" The Water of Shame ") in India. I
knew that the trade in rum was forced on the inhabitants

of Madagascar, against the strenuous and
most pathetic pleading of the rulers of that unfortunate
country, by our Christian Government, and
that English ships carried vice, demoralization, and
disease among the innocent, child-like peoples of
the South Seas. While even where Christian missions
had accomplished incalculable good, and abolished
frightful evils, the results were very, very far,
I knew too well, from the ideal heaven on earth of
which the Apostle of the " Worship of Joy " had
preached and dreamed.

Since spinning that last yarn, I have again remembered
how I was sinning against the virtue of
patience, and how I ought to have reflected a little
more on the law of gradual progress which the
Almighty Creator and Ruler has evidently enacted.
Be that, however, as it may, this present life and all
connected with our earth, was now too sad and sombre
for me to endure longer dwelling on its capacities
for developing the true Bacchantic worship; and all
which in my thoughts and reading had gathered
round that conception, now began to concentrate
themselves on the idea of Heaven in a future state
of existence. All sights and images of Beauty, all
dreams, imaginations, remembrances of scenes and
moments of Joy, helped to build up the lovely and
glorious vision of the Eternal Home. Every vision
of love and gladness in poetry, history, biography,
fiction, in books of travel, alike ministered to the

development in my mind of something infinitely
more beautiful and blessed than has ever yet been
realized on earth. Oh, would that I could have
written down some at least of those exquisite
visions ! They might, perchance, one day comfort
" some forlorn and shipwrecked brother," '* sailing
o'er Life's solemn main," and who, " seeing, might
take heart again."

*****
But when I was revelling most happily in the exquisite
visions of peace and love in that fair world
*' Where the wicked cease from troubling and the
weary are at rest" — where

The splendour of the grass and the glory of the flower "

shall return to the soul in its renewed and eternal
youth — where the sunrise and sunset, the mountain
and the stream, the flowers and the forest, the
moon-lit night and the calm, silvery lake, the
presence of the beloved, — where sweet strains of
music softly rise upon the midnight air, and then

Soft eves look love to eyes which speak again,"

while visions like these filled my soul ever and
anon, the thought twould steal into it of how all
such happiness might be marred or at once destroyed
by the intruding remembrance or consequence of
some former fault or sin, one's own or another's,
which, like murdered Banquo's ghost, might rise in
the very midst of the fair and festive scene.

Nay," I answered to the dark suggestion ; " but

if that could be, we should not be in heaven."
Alas! then how could I myself ever hope to be in
that blessed world, unless I were first deprived of
memory and conscience, and rescued from all the
consequences of my previous life, by ceasing to be
my former self?

Much controversy, I remember, used to take place
in our rooms at Oxford, and in many a church and
pulpit elsewhere, about the annihilation of the
wicked, and the question of " conditional immortality."
Did the zealous controversialists never consider
that utter loss of memory would, of itself, be
practically equivalent to annihilation, because it
would mean the loss of conscious identity?

And if immortality — without that loss — were
granted to the soul, what charm or spell, what divine
shield or wall of gold and precious stones in the
New Jerusalem, what protection which the deepest,
mightiest Love could devise, could save us from the
Past, could avail to deliver us from the memory,
and therefore from some of the worst consequences
of former evil ways and deeds and habits — what, in
short, could deliver us from the power of ill when
that ill was a part of our very selves ? Only annihilation.


*' If," thought I again and again, *' if, while I was
yet in the body on earth, I were frequently self-indulgent,
self-seeking, or cowardly, and full of base,
ungrateful distrust of Grod, with no habitual readiness
or desire to seek the good of others and to

prefer their happiness to my own, no abiding trust
and firmly-rooted confidence in the infinite love
and power of G-od, how could the happiness of
heaven be unbroken unless I ceased to be myself?
Nay, how could it fail of being again and again
destroyed by causes that would be entwined with
the very heart-strings of one's whole moral and
spiritual being ? There was a word in the New
Testament about this matter which struck me as
almost terrible : — " To him who knoweth to do good,
and doeth it not, to him it is sin " — terrible, not
merely (nor perhaps chiefly) because of him who said
it, but, because in proportion as any one becomes good
and happy himself, surrounded by dear friends and innumerable
blessings, would be the misery of seeing
all the opportunities he had neglected on earth of
saving others from suffering and sin, — and of meeting
them, it may be, as accusing spirits in the midst of
peace and joy.

One morning when I felt unusually depressed from
a sleepless night, and was sitting alone by my flagstaff,
for even my dogs had gone off for a raid into
the woods, I was pondering painfully thoughts like
these till my brain throbbed, and I trembled as if I
were in an ague. For those thoughts seemed to
deprive me of that which had hitherto been a wonderful
source of comfort and peace — the hope of
perfect peace and joy in a fairer world. What was
the use of rejoicing in visions and dreams of the
exceeding beauty and joy which might be attained

hereafter, if I myself would be unable to rest in all
that loveliness, even when bathed in its joy, because I
was still haunted and defiled by some guilty memories,
by some weakness or besetting sin ? It was no vain
instinct, then, no mistaken craving, that drove the
great poet to long for the waters of Lethe, even if
he longed for them in despair.

Suddenly, I know not how, the thought came into
my head that the morrow was Christmas-day. I had
a pocket almanac when I landed on the island, and
I had marked the days of the succeeding year in its
columns. I had already spent one of these great
anniversaries on my island, but then I was still in
the full flush of enjoyment of my new surroundings,
and I gave it no heed. Now the thought brought
me only infinite sadness. Memories of happy childhood,
and rejoicing boyhood's winter holidays in the
loving circle and broad lands of AldclyfFe Priory, unlimited
skating, shooting, or hunting, with the abundant
interchange of useful and pretty presents, charming
books, &c. ; all these recollections came thronging
up in my mind; and the contrast with my present
forlorn solitude was too painful. . I little thought
then of the presents that would be brought me on
the following day, or of the Guest whom I right
entertain.

But I began considering what the day really
meant — why it was held so dear and sacred by all
churches and sects throughout Christendom. From
the time when on my sick bed I had begun to realize

something of the surpassing glory of Christ's character,
of his self-sacrifice and love, I had never lost
my admiration for what he was and did, nor my
love for him who thus taught and laboured, did
good to all — suffered and died. I felt now I could
understand and honour, more than ever before, his
unutterable love for men in leaving his home of
love and beauty in the Father's heart to dwell
among all the strife and sin, the disease, disorder
and cruelty of human abodes. The intense loneliness
he must so often have felt, also became realized tome
as it had never been while I was myself surrounded
by friends. And yet — what was the outcome
of all he did and suffered, what was the real
ultimate gain of it all, looked at in the light of the
thoughts which had been harassing me only that
very morning, and increasingly so of late ? Yet I
had gained during many weeks past, great and exceeding
peace. For the hundredth time in my life
I could only moan forth another great poet's words —

. Could we but h^ej) heights
Which we are competent to gain. ."

Even that all-subduing power and spirit of love
which, one never-to-be-forgotten evening, my beloved
and I together saw would hallow and bless all joy
and suffering, all acts and states, alike, seemed to
fail me now, because we had (either then or since)
seen and confessed that true love must manifest
itself by conferring or trying to confer benefits and
blessings on the beloved ones ; whereas I was beginning,

I thought, to see that God was unable or
unwilling to grant me, and those I loved, these
means of obtaining peace and joy either here or
hereafter.

"Well — here was Christmas-day coming round again,
and ere long Easter Sunday would be here. Did
those anniversaries, kept in yearly remembrance and
honour for 1,800 years, mean, then, nothing more
than the memory of a noble life and self-sacrificing
death in Palestine centuries ago — with such feeble
influence on the passions and greed o"^ all succeeding
generations as history records, and the state of the
world now manifests ? I made a note of that, and
meditated.

As I lazily threw myself under the shade of some
palm-trees near my flag-staff (for though the sea-breeze
was delicious, the sun was now rising high in
the heavens), and turned over the pages of my little
New Testament which I happened to have with me,
my dogs came back, panting, thirsty, and wagging
their tails, seeming to say, '•' Well, master, we've
had a fine time of it. What are you in the doldrums
about?" Both were very fond of me, but the female,
who was always the most affectionate, came and
tenderly licked my face as I lay on the grass, and
evidently remonstrated with me for being unhappy.
I caressed them, and then recommended their going
to the little spring of water near the cave, which
they speedily did. Whereupon I turned again with
a rather lightened heart to my little book ; and as I

searched its pages I couldn't help being struck with
the number of passages that seemed to say there
was a great deal more in the advent of Christ to
earth and his ascension to heaven — in Christianity,
in fact — than what I had hitherto seen and just
written. I saw how much was said about a kingdom
of heaven being established on earth and reaching
through endless Time and Space both here and
beyond the grave. But a kingdom implies a King.
Who was the King? Was he a true King, strong
and just, wise, merciful, good, able to protect and
bless, ruling in power and glory, or a roi faineant
perhaps a cruel tyrant, or a dead or a banished
King? Surely, Grod is the King. It is called the
kingdom of God, as well as the kingdom of heaven.
But then what was the nature of the kingdom, what
was Christ's part in it ? Is it still existing, or has
it long since been overthrown, and does the devil
reign instead? Is all the misery and pain now in
the world the fruits of the kingdom of Good or of
His enemies ? Questions like these kept hurrying
through my brain, as I suppose they have done
through the brains of millions. I tried to answer
them by looking carefully again and again into the
various accounts of what Christ did and said about
this kingdom, and one thing was soon plain enough
viz., that he always spoke of the coming or
establishment of his Father's kingdom as involving
the overthrow of disease and sorrow, as well as of sin
and death. So far as he could establish that kingdom,

he would be freeing men from oppression,
from slavery to alien usurpers and cruel tyrants,
from suffering and disorder in their bodies, their
souls, and their social and political communities. He
would put down all evil, moral o/iid physical. Order,
health, purity, love, truth, and beauty were to abound
in the kingdom of God. But all this was quite
compatible with what I had seen, felt, written, only
a few months before respecting the immeasurable
good which sorrow and pain were working out in
our lives and hearts. The kingdom of good is to
overthrow the tyranny of evil, but the process is
gradual ; and by and through the strife, man's highest
blessedness, his noblest life, is attained.

Often as I had read many portions of the Old and
all of the Xew Testament before, these truths came tome
like a new discovery. When I glanced now at the
Acts of the apostles and their Epistles, when my
thoughts went through the more striking events of
the history of the Christian Church since their day,.
I saw how completely those views of the work and
aim of Christ were confirmed. I found a parallel ta
that work — indeed a grand exemplification of it — in
the history of all great Christian saints and rulers
in the Church of every creed, of all great and good
Christian Monarchs, especially of Alfred the Grreat,
Charlemagne, and St. Louis, of all the men and
women who in the name of Christ had consecrated
their lives amid innumerable errors and confusions
to the overthrow of all invaders and tyrants, whether
VOL. III. 38

one or many — of evil in every foreland to the establishment
of Order, Justice, Law, Civilization, Religion,
Education, Health, Happiness, and Peace among their
disciples, fellow-citizens and subjects, in avis et focus.

Yes, Christ had plainly come into the world on
that far-off Christmas day to establish the rule and
sovereignty of One who was Light and Love and
in whom there was " no Darkness at all."

These truths seemed to answer one of my greatest
difficulties. Clearly if the purpose for which Christ
was born on earth were ever accomplished, and
the kingdom of God were established here, it would
then be as possible to cultivate and possess the true
*' worship of Joy," "the fruits of the Spirit, lovejoy,
peace " (or, according to another description of
-the kingdom of God by the Apostle, " Righteousness,
and peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit") in this
strange, sad, lovely world, as it was for Englishmen
to enjoy the blessings of Order, Law, Justice,
Security, and Education, after Alfred the Great had
conquered the Danes. And when I murmured to
myself that the world on that Christmas eve was a
very long way, yet, from seeing the kingdom of
heaven on earth, a voice seemed to whisper in soft
loving tones — " God is very patient with man. You
must be so too. Victory will come in due time,
according as you and others do your part. But
Effort, Temptation, Sorrow, and Strife are the necessary
conditions of perfection. Kest in the Lord, and
wait patiently for Him."

Who is it says "All things are possible to him
who can wait " ? Yes, if he works as well as waits.
. But how could I work, there on my island,
alone ? And how little good any one seemed able todo,
even at the best, in the very heart of the civilized
world. Christ came once into the world to
establish his Father's kingdom and after a two or
three years' ministry left it and went to heaven.
Oh, why did he not return ? why leave us to wage
this terrible conflict alone ? Yet not alone. The
Father is with us. But so He was 2,000 years ago,
and what was the state of the Eoman world when
Christ was born and died ? Has the Son of G-od
done nothing for the human race but leave it his
precepts and example ? Did his own action and
interest in this kingdom altogether cease when he
had died on the Cross, or when he had ascended upto
heaven. Has he had no power, no part, himself
in carrying on this glorious work which he began so
nobly and for which he died so grandly ? Has he
been shut out from that which would surely have
been to him the greatest reward his Heavenly
Father could give him for his unparalleled sacrifices
■ — shut out from sharing in the beneficent work of
carrying forward the kingdom of God among the
sons of men whom he loved with a love * passing
knowledge ' ? . . . Somehow I could not believe
this possible. Does not God, I asked myself, employ
even us. His poor stupid children, to carry on His
beneficent designs ? How much more, then, would

38—2

He entrust His beloved Son with " all authority in
heaven and on earth ? " And if the Son of Grod
were indeed commissioned to be our Deliverer, our
Saviour, our Teacher, and our King — if in a word,
he is God's answer to our prayers, our need, had I
not greatly erred in not seeking his help, his deliverance
from all the divers troubles and evil that had
invaded and oppressed me since I was a child ?
Had I then been deliberately or unthinkingly throwing
from me, madly rejecting, the very means Grod
had so carefully, so lovingly provided for my deliverance
from Sorrow and Sin, from Pain and Fear,
when I neglected or refused to seek the help and
take the hand held out to me by him who
** endured the cross, despising the shame," for the
joy of delivering his brethren from the bondage and
the curse of Evil and Sin, of bringing them to the
mansions of their Father's home ?

As I asked myself this question, for a moment
my heart seemed to stand still to listen to the
answer, so great and solemn were the issues that
hung thereon.

/ could not answer it. I knew that I had long
dreaded and shrunk from the infection of that fatal
tendency I had seen in the history of all religions
strongest, I suppose, in the Eoman Catholic Church
to seek for help and mercy from some intermediate
being or beings — now from the Demiurgos,
then from the Saints, or the Virgin Mary, instead
of looking up straight to G-od. And therefore I had

feared to believe in the presence or power of Christ
to help and to bless me, feared to realize that he
could now be dwelling with me if I did but welcome
him, would be working with me, blessing me with
great blessing if I would but let him.

I remembered once when I was at Oxford an
earnest Clerical " Fellow '■ of Oriel urging, entreating,
almost imploring one of the most religious-minded
men I had ever known, and who had much influence
over me at that time, a young Oriel graduate, to
believe in the presence and personal power of the
Son of God to save him — and my friend's answer
dwelt in my memory long afterwards. '' I have
Grod," he said. " What more can I need."

I could think no more that day. Baffled and
bewildered, I returned to my lair, dejected to feel I
had attained to no clear vision. But the last
words on which my eye fell ere I closed my Testament,
and turned to leave the cliff and the palm-tree
shade, struck me with new and overwhelming
force — and recurred to me again and again, that
night — 'rye believe in God, — believe also in Me."

During that night, unable to sleep, I rose and went
on to the turf outside my dwelling, where I lay looking
up to the stars which were shining in all the
wonderful radiance of that Southern clime, listening
-to the solemn beat of the mighty ocean waves on the
distant reef.

And as I lay there, at last I could fancy I heard the
angels singing in the deep blue sky, " Glory to God in

the highest, and on earth peace, good-will to men,"
and then the strains of that entrancing Pastoral Symphony
from the " Messiah " — surely the divinest melody
that ever came to the human soul from the heart of
God — seemed to be floating round me, and at length I
turned into my nest refreshed and comforted.

Early during the forenoon of Christmas day, while
I was still busy about my little domain, and memories
of happy childhood, when that anniversary brought
so many joys and presents, I was startled, all of a
sudden, on lifting my head, to see, far away in the
offing, what looked like a sail making for the island. .
. One moment of intense joy. Surely deliverance
is coming at last ! That would be keeping Christmas
day as I had never kept it before. Hastily getting
my glass I plainly discerned a big canoe with a great
latter sail, such as I had heard was used by the Fiji
islanders and Malays, evidently manned by savages
and coming swiftly towards my island. I at once
made my dogs understand they were to keep silence,
arid not to stir out of the enclosure, by stringent signs
and the surer compulsion of a wooden bar fastened to
their necks in default of an iron chain, while I ensured
their silence by clapping on a couple of rope muzzles
which I had prepared in view of such a possible contingency.
I had always kept my double-barrelled
fowling-piece in order, lest it should ever be wanted.
I now took it down, carefully loaded one barrel with
the biggest shot I had got, and the other with a bullet.
Then I stole out at the back of my cave into the

goods. Hiding in the brushwood, I saw the canoe
near the reef and presently shoot into the lagoon, its
occupants consisting of about twenty nearly naked
savages, joining in wild cries, shouts, and what I
suppose was intended for songs. They soon ran their
boat ashore, and some of them tumbled in very disorderly
fashion on to the sand, while the last to leave
the boat handed out to the others five little dusky lads,
whose feet were tied, and who were unceremoniously
thrown on to the sand, like so many logs of wood.
My blood ran cold, for I began to think the wretches
had evidently come for a horrid cannibal feast. Here
was a Eobinson Crusoe adventure with a vengeance !
Presently the men sprang together and joined in a
war-dance, with yells and cries enough to drive a
peaceable, nervous soul like myself half frantic. If
ever I felt grateful in my life it was at that moment
for having got my trusty gun, with plenty of ammunition.
And yet it was Christmas day. I don't feel sure
that I was then in a highly Christian frame of mind.
But, thank Heaven, as regards a cannibal feast, I was
soon undeceived. Seven only of the savages had left
the boat, and these marched up the shore as if in a
sacrificial procession, carrying the lads with them, and
chanting what I guessed to be some lugubrious kind of
native psalm or dirge. When they had gone about
thirty paces they untied their prisoners' feet, set
them carefully down, made various magical signs and
sounds over them, then turned and fled back to their
boats with headlong speed. Seeing that they were but

slightly armed and in a great hurry to get away, I
began to fear I might be losing a precious opportunity,
and came out of my hiding-place, calling aloud and
making friendly gestures. But the apparition of a
white man in a rather uncouth garb, with a gun over
his shoulder, greatly increased the poor creatures'
terror. Those in the boat began vehemently pushing
off, while the sacrificial band plunged madly into the
water and clambered helter-skelter on board. In vain
I followed to the water's edge, shouting and imploring.
Their sail caught the breeze. They tugged at their
oars with frantic haste till far out at sea, and I was
left alone once more.

No, not alone. The doomed sacrificial victims lay
moaning and howling on the green soft turf, and they
were human beings.

Imagine my surprise when I found they were all
blind, and apparently deaf and dumb into the bargain.
Their ages appeared to vary from seven or eight to
about twelve. My first thought was to untie their
legs, and lead them under the shade of the trees, but
the moment I came near they set up such a screaming,
and struck out so fiercely with their poor little arms
and legs, that I concluded they had better remain
where they were till I had brought them some breadfruit,
with a jug of water, and we had become better
friends. I then carried them one by one under the
trees, deposited them in comfort against the great
boles of the palms, and surveyed my Christmas
presents with complacency. Not that they were beautiful,

by any means. Quite the reverse — as ugly as
Egyptian idols. But they belonged to the genus Man,
actually living, here on my beach — at least clearly
living now, and whose lives I could probably save. I
fancied I had somewhere read that certain savage tribes
had a custom of exposing deformed, blind, or deaf
children to die on desert shores. And at all events it
seemed pretty evident that they had been brought
here as to an accursed spot, sacred to some South Sea
Satan, and were devoted as children of the devil, to
his service — an infernal propitiatory sacrifice, in
fact — a rendering unto Satan of things that were
Satan's, but which I was helped to believe, by the day
on which their arrival took place, might nevertheless
be " things which were God's." So, with mingled
feelings of disappointment and hope, disgust, sorrow
and gladness, I set to work and ministered to the immediate
wants and woes of the poor little imps.

My next task was to free my poor dogs from their
confinement and gags, and great fun it was to see
their uproarious delight as they frisked and bounded
about, without showing a particle of resentment for
my ill-treatment. But I soon found the truth of the
proverb, that riches bring care, for I prevented them
from making a furious assault on the little naked
savages only by the promptest strategical manoeuvres
and actually had to use corporal chastisement, for
the first time, before I could compel them to forego
their fell designs. The amount of antipathy and
alarm which they manifested towards my new guests

was ' remarkable and distressing. But it was fully
reciprocated by the children themselves, whose sense
of snell, sharpened in proportion to the loss of their
other senses, evidently revealed to them the approach of
either the dogs or myself, at a great distance.

At first, in spite of my kind attentions in the way
of food and drink, which they [swallowed ravenously
and of covering them, like "Babes in the Wood's
great banana leaves at night they were dreadfully
afraid of my coming near them, thereby indicating
the kind of treatment to which they had previously
been subjected. However that might be, I felt that
the children were now committed to my charge ; and
to pray earnestly for strength and light to do the
best for them in my power seemed only natural
now.

• Two of them (one, the biggest of the lot, and
another two or three years younger) soon began to
show signs of appreciating my endeavours for their
good, and made some faint signs of gratification and
intelligence, which were inexpressibly delightful tome.
I fancied they were of the Malay breed, from
pictures which I had seen. But I tried in vain to
gain the confidence or approbation of the other
three (whom I set down as of Fiji origin), and
who in consequence, were continually getting into
various troubles. They all had an awkward habit of
laying hold of bits of wood, boughs of trees, and
stones, wherewith they belaboured anything with
which they came in contact, and even threw them

violently in various directions when alarmed. The
unoffending trees against which the helpless
creatures blindly stumbled didn't much mind this
castigation; but it was a little trying to my own
temper, and still more to that of my dogs, when all
of a sudden, we felt a sharp blow from a stick or
stone thrown by these hobgoblins, whose noses led
them very straight, and whose feet brought them
noiselessly to where I might be either sitting or
lying in peaceful serenity. The enmity between
them and my dogs of course was rather serious, and
I worked hard day after day to erect a sort of pali-saying
within which I enclosed the children by way
of nursery until I could succeed, if ever, in establishing
an entente cordiale between them and Mr. Rattler
and Mrs. Marina. It was finished none too soon ; for
not long after Madame presented her husband with
a litter of fine young puppies, and if the little
savages had happened to come near that nursery,
the knife of the savages, or the poor cabin-boy's fate
would have been a much more merciful termination to
their infantile existence than that which, I fear,
would in such case, have overtaken them.

The puppies were an inexpressibly delightful addition
to my happiness as well as to Marina's, and
were received with the gratitude due to New Year's
gifts — much prettier and more amusing, I'm sorry
to confess, than the human babes.

So passed that strange Christmas day and week.
But I had sounder sleep at the end of this Christmas
day than for many a night previously. When
I was bathing and dressing the next morning I saw
that there was now plenty of work cut out for me
if I was to do my duty by the poor little morsels of
humanity which had been entrusted to my keeping.
The first duty was of course to feed them, and then
to construct the nursery above mentioned. A much
more difficult task was to teach them cleanliness
and induct them into the mysteries of tubbing. I
tried to effect the latter operation by enclosing a
small space in a shallow part of the lagoon ; and
though the three perverse, if not idiotic, children
made a furious resistance at first to any attempt at
washing or ducking them, in course of time by much
coaxing, and by giving them a little food in the
water after long abstinence, they all rose to a great
height of enjoyment when in their bath, and would
duck and splutter and scream with delight therein
for an hour at a time. It was amusing to see how
the prejudice which my refined and high-bred dogs
at first entertained against the new-comers was
diminished by these ablutions.

A far more serious task, however, was their education.
I should have utterly despaired of ever
reaching their mind and soul, supposing they had
one (whereof, somehow, I had much doubt), had I
not formerly read with great interest Charles
Dickens' account of the wonderful manner in which
a benevolent physician of Boston, U.S., Dr. Howe,
many years ago, had succeeded in awakening the
mental and spiritual life of a poor child in that
city, Laura Bridgman, who had been born blind,
deaf and dumb. I recollected also that I had subsequently
come across a full and detailed account
by Dr. Howe and others of the methods adopted for
her education and that of other children similarly
circumstanced; and that I had made several extracts
from it, which I was delighted now to find in
an old portfolio of MSS. in my big trunk. These
I studied, hour after hour, on my Look-out hill, with
an amount of peace and satisfaction which contrasted
beautifully with the morbid restlessness and dejection
which had previously been creeping over me
once more. And then came my clumsy endeavours
to put my plans into practice. Ah, that was a very
different matter, and but for my previous loneliness
and misery, as well as this newly-developed sense of
a divine love, and of a constant Providence, and the
sense of profound obligation to love and serve Him
by loving and serving His creatures, I fear I
should have soon become so utterly wearied and
disgusted both with the children and my repulsive"

task, that, as dear old Fred once suggested
in his classic idioms, I should, ere long, " have
thrown up the sponge." But under the compulsion
of what another college friend of mine used to call
'' that horrid sense of duty," I stuck to it until I
actually came to love it. The eldest lad, indeed,
and the little one of whom he seemed fond, and who
I guessed was his brother, after a time interested me
immensely, and became really lovable. The elder
of the two soon showed considerable intelligence and
affection, so that the pleasure of teaching him amply
compensated for the trouble and pain of trying to
instruct the others. I say pain, for it was sometimes
bodily as well as mental. The stubborn little rascals
would occasionally respond to my persuasive appeals
by a severe pinch or a sharp slap on my face ; and
I fancy I learned more with regard to patience and
command of temper during the first few months of
my tutorial labours than during all the rest of my
life before. What Dr. Busby, of famous birching
memory, would have thought of this inversion of
the old method, whereby the master pinched or
flogged his scholars, I dare not consider ; but am
glad to say that by a judicious mixture of firmness
and kindness, of bananas and gentle raps on the
knuckles, I did make a little progress at last in the
instruction even of my awkward squad.

In the MS. mentioned above, of quotations from
the accounts of Laura Bridgman's tuition, and that
of other similar sufferers, I learned that the first

step was to teach the names of objects by associating,
say a piece of bread, or a spoon, with
raised letters which Dr. Howe put into her hand.
In this way his pupil learned that the word bore
some relation to the object. Then the separate
letters of the word were given to her in the order
of the name of some object with which she . was
well acquainted until she could construct the word
herself by picking out the required letters. This
was then done with other words, and before long she
evidently saw that this construction of words was a
means by which she could communicate her wants
or thoughts to other persons. The child was then
furnished with type and a board filled with holes.
Objects known to her were presented, and she could
compose the names of them. This, I found, had
afforded her great delight. Then she was taught
the manual alphabet (^i.e., for talking with her
fingers). Objects not known were given, and the
names of them spelt for her. All this took about
three months in her case, and sounded delightful.
But alas ! I had no carved wooden or metal letters
■ — no raised type. What was to be done ? Nothing
but set to work and with my pocket knife
carve a few dozen alphabets, with about three times
as many of the first ten consonants and five times
as many of the letter '^ e " as of the other vowels.
What a job that was I and how my fingers and back
ached with carving, carving, hour after hour. But
then all my morbid dreary fancies had vanished. I

slept like a navvy o' nights. My appetite and
health returned ; and if I still sometimes felt a sad
weary heart-ache for the sight of the loved and
unforgotten faces, I could throw off the dejection
it caused by plunging vigorously into the various
tasks needed for the benefit of 'the chiltern," whom,
when seated on a plank, I officially termed my
Board School.

It was no joke at times, however, trying to teach
my three irreconcilable. Their sense of smell, as
I said, was so wonderfully acute that they discerned
my approach from a distance of twenty or thirty
yards, and knew pretty well where to aim their ammunition.
So that one day, after I had had to
chastise the biggest and most spiteful of that lot
for repeated transgression of rules, and when I
hoped to amuse them by taking them along the
shore after school hours, and encouraging them topick
up shells — all of a sudden I found a shower of
pebbles flying about my head, one or two inflicting
severe pain. Hereupon my faithful dogs, who had
previously learned and practised forbearance, could
restrain themselves no longer, and flew on the
delinquents, who, of course, set up a dismal howland
let fly showers of sand and stones. Fortunately
I had put on the muzzles, and so no serious mischief
was done, but on the contrary, some good, for
the offenders soon found I was rescuing them from
their assailants and protecting them from the
enemy. I don't think they ever conspired against

me after that, and were decidedly more docile and
well-behaved. If ever they again showed a disposition
to assail me, I had only to call one of the
dogs, and the moment they smelt it coming near
them they rushed to me for protection, and
in the most pathetic manner tried to conciliate my
favour. This, of course, was reach' granted ; and
by persistent kindness and occasional caresses and
little treats, I seemed, in some degree, to win their
confidence and to call forth even a slight amount
of affection. They never, indeed, came near in
point of either affection or intelligence to the
elder boy and his little brother, bat some progress
was certainly made.

Now I don't suppose that if anybody ever reads
this egotistic scrawl they will care to accompany me
through the rather weary, tedious, yet often very
interesting stages by which I gradually awakened
the mind and soul of the two last-named lads, or
the affections both of them and of the other three.
I had better, therefore, skip the process and come
to a few of those results which I found bore with
a curious and, to me, very striking effect on the
spiritual problems that had perplexed my beloved
and myself for many a year.

One of my first aims had been to make them all
understand that they had each got a name to
themselves. Some day I hoped they might all have
Christian names, but in the meantime it was important
to give them that sense of individual
VOL. III. 39

personality which I knew lay at the basis of all
moral and conscious life. So I got the elder of
the two young Malays, as I guessed them to be,
to answer to the name of '' Jackoo," which had
indeed rather a malicious reference to a certain,
dear little marmoset monkey, well remembered, but
also to the prospective christening which I hoped
would in due time follow. For it would easily
be changed to Jacky, and I could give him " John "
for his baptismal appellation. All which fitted in
delightfully. So 1 then proceeded to inform him
and his younger brother that the latter was to rejoice
in the title of "Little Pickle." The others
I called respectively, Sandy, Sweep, and Brownie,
but both Jackoo and I experienced considerable
difficulty in awakening either of these young
gentlemen to self-consciousness and a sense of the
personal " Ego," as the ground-work of their individuality,
and to the propriety therefore of
assuming proper names.

One afternoon as Jackoo sat beside me on the
look-out cliff, carving some wooden letters, I asked
him the question Laura Bridgman once asked Dr.
Howe. I had managed to give him some idea first
of the way in which I had constructed the palpitating
of his nursery, and the shed at one end of it,
whence I had gone on to a general description of
how men built houses, ships, &c. So on this
occasion I went a step further, and said : " But
who do you think made the land, the trees, and

the sea ? I didn't." This set him thinking, but
after some time he shook his little brown pate, and
said with his fingers, " Teacher me do not know."
So that day he got his first lesson in theology.
The boy's delight was very touching when I explained
how the trees and flowering shrubs grew
up out of the earth, how the sun glowed in the
the heavens, the great waters rolled, and the soft
winds fanned his cheek. But when I put the idea
into his head of some great primal Source of
creative and sustaining power, some glorious Being
who must be causing all this creation and life, he
sprung up from the ground and danced about with
joy. Presently, however, he sat down again with
a rather dejected look, and when at last I found
the cause of his sorrow it was that he could not
understand how I knew there was such a Being.
^' Could I touch Him?" *'^^ot with my hand," I
replied. Could I smell Him ? No. Could I do
what I called "see" Him? No. But then I could
not touch or see him, Jackoo. I could only touch
his body and see his face. He himself, I knew,
was beside me because there was some one by me
who I knew loved me and thought about me ; someone
who moved that body and carved bits of wood;
hence I knew a little about him because of what lie
did, and what he seemed to feel and think, by
the expression on his face and other signs. " And
you must understand, Jacks'' I continued slowly,
that just in the same way, though I can

39—2

LIBRARY

UNlVERSin OF ILUNOi

neither touch nor see God, I know something about
Him, and know that He is, by what He does —
by the answers He gives me I know something of
what He is like — and by the woods, the flowers,
the ocean, the Sun and Stars, which are like His
countenance, and by what happens to me. All this
shows God to me." It took the boy some time, of
course, to grasp these notions, but when he did, his
words tumbled one over another in his haste and
delight, in such a way that at first I was quite at
a loss to follow him. I do not give his quaint
curious English, and perplexingly obscure descriptions
of his thoughts, but only the substance of it
all as I ultimately arrived at it, which was often
a long and troublesome process. But I had nothing
better then to do than to understand and love him
and make him understand and love me in return.
It was clearly both my duty and privilege, and I
tried to do it. Sometimes, however, Jackoo came
out with such ridiculously quaint remarks that I
was glad he could not see or hear me burst out
laughing, for he might have thought that I was
ridiculing him. I wish now I had written some of
them down at the time, but the only ingenious observation
I can call to mind at this moment was
when he one day wanted me to cut his nails, and ashe
could not remember the right word, he held up his
fingers, and then said, *' My teeth, here." This explained
his meaning very neatly. But I was rather
taken aback when after I had been giving him my

ideas about God, as above, he managed to explain,
a little later on, that since he could not see landor
water, Sun or Star, and could not hear what I
called beautiful music, while he could feel my hand
and face, and did receive from me every day nice
food, and everything else he wanted, and as I
talked with him and made him feel very happy, I
myself must be God, or at least God to him. I saw
it was useless, at that time to try and get him
much further than this, and admitted to myself
that for some time to come I must be to him in
place of God. Clearly I could hope to lead him
up to the higher truth only through the humbler
medium.

On another occasion when I was endeavouring to
satisfy his curiosity as to the difference between himself
and me, as well as other human beings who
could see and hear, I was forcibly reminded of a
conversation at the Priory when I was representing
to my " bright particular Star " the groundlessness
of an objection she had been taught to urge as to
our inability to know God. For I found myself trying
to explain to my docile pupil what I referred to
above, viz., that none of us, even with all our senses,
can get outside of ourselves to learn what is there.
We can only receive certain impressions through our
eyes and ears and hands, just as he did through his
hands and nose only ; but we had not any further
means of ascertaining what is in the Universe ; all
we know with certainty is that we have certain impressions,

and think about them. We are completely
shut up within our bodies or brains, and differ from
the blind, deaf, and dumb only in degree, not in
kind — only in gaining a good many more impressions
of various kinds than they do. But we have
no greater certainty than themselves, that there is
any outside world at all, or any Creator and Euler
of the Universe. The substance, therefore, of my
explanations to my pupil, given in very homely
terms and symbols, was this — that I am certain I
myself exist because I think and feel — i.e., because
I experience certain impressions and states of mind;
and that I am equally certain Grod exists, because
all the impressions made on me, which lead to my
thinking and feeling, make me just as sure that
there is an all-wise, all-powerful, and all good
Being acting on me, as those particular impressions
made on me by Jackoo himself cause me to believe
that he, Jackoo, is there beside me, with a distinct
character and being of his own.

Jackoo's remarks sometimes threw a strange bright
light on questions that in former days used sadly
to perplex me or those I conversed with. I recollect
his once stumbling through a long sentence he was
forming, and which, when I had deciphered it, was
to this effect: **I can't think, master, how you can
know where we ought to walk, without knowing
where we are or what is in the way by touching
us or smelling us, or feeling about with a stick.
You say you don't know where we are by your

nose — and even we can't know there's a great stone,
or holes, or a tree a long way off, by the smell
of it." I found, of course, I could no more give
the boy any idea of the faculty of sight than
I could myself form any conception of how an
Unseen Being or beings may surround my path, and
exert influence upon me in a variety of ways which
I may fully understand after death, but cannot
possibly comprehend now. While I was pondering
his question, Jackoo went on to explain that just as
at first he was sure I couldn't know anything
about him, and the rest of them, or what they
were all doing, without touching or smelling them,
so he was sure Sandy, Sweep, and Brownie thought
so still, and that was why, unless I was near them
or touched them, they would often not do what I
told them. They didn't believe I knew what they
were then doing. At first also he thought, and that
the other three still sometimes thought, that I was
one of the cruel men who had brought them to the
inland, or else that I was "a bad thing, living up
in the trees," and delighting to torment them.
Once I remember, when the other children had
been very troublesome, Jackoo telling me, with his'
eyes full of tears, that he thought it very wrong
of them not to trust me, and believe that I would
do only what was best for them, " because," said
he, "you have touched them, and taken their hand
and led and helped them. You have constantly
given them food. Oh, why can't they trust you,

dear Master ? " . . . Then I went to my cave
that night quoting brave old prophet Nathan, " Thou
art the man," and thinking how every word of the
poor lad stabbed me to the heart for my own want
of trust in God.

Yet, no. Had they not far more reason for
believing and trusting in me than I in the Unseen
Deity ? Had they not, as Jackoo said, felt my hand,
been touched by it, fed by it ? While I had never

but there I stuck. I knew that God had

touched even my mere bodily senses by His sunrise
and sunsets, by His flowers and mountains, by
moonlight and stars and purple seas, by all the
wonderful material organisms wherewith He had fed
and clothed me, and unfolded my inner as well as
my outer life from infancy. . . . Aye, and still
more decisively, quite unmistakably by the touch
of His Spirit on my soul, by the soothing, healing
hand He had laid upon my throbbing, tortured nerves
through His beloved Son, by the answers so often, so
swiftly given me by Christ to my imploring prayers.
Had I not felt all this as surely as ever one human
being had felt and realized the presence, the help,
the touch of another ?

I knew I had — knew it as certainly as those old
fellows who wrote those glorious Hebrew Psalms and
prophesying. After that night, doubts seldom recurred,
and before long they wholly departed,
* * *

It was curious how little Jackoo could tell me of

what had happened to him before coming to this
place. But his mind hadn't then been waked up,
and he could remember only a few confused impressions
of being hungry and thirsty, and then of
being tumbled about, fed, or beaten, as the case
might be.

An accident which befell the poor little man one
day led to my seeing how to give him a more
definite idea of an Almighty and Heavenly Father
than I had managed to possess him with previously.
He was generally so cautious, and at the same
time skilful, in steering his way among rocks
and fissures in the soil that I had sometimes let
him wander about a good deal by himself, to his
great delight. Of course I kept an eye upon him ;
but one afternoon I was watching intently through
my glass something in the offing that looked like
a sail, when I was startled by a loud scream from
the poor little chap, who had inadvertently tumbled
into a hole by the woods, and sprained his ankle.
This hole, I found afterwards, had been made by
some of the more audacious of the tribe of rats,
and very sorry I was to see the plaguy beasts had
dared to come so near my especial estate. However
in the meantime I had to extricate Jackoo, and
bind up his ankle with a rag soaked in salt water,
and explain to him he must not attempt to walk
on that foot for some days. As he lay quietly by
my side on the hill up which I carried him, he
was trying to tell me how good I was for coming

to help him so quickly ; but when he learnt that

I was at the top of the cliff when he stepped into

the hole, he could not think how I could possibly

know he was in trouble. The mystery of hearing

could no more be explained than that of sight; but

when I told him that Grod often gave me instant

help when I was in trouble, though I could not

in the least understand how He could know I

wanted help, or could hear my prayer, and that

He was just as ready and able to help him, Jackoo,

as to help me, the boy seemed to get a clearer and

more definite notion of an Invisible Being than I

think he had before. Didn't I wish I could teach

him Charles wesley's hymn which concludes with

How swift to save me Thou didst move
In every trying hour.

Some day, perhaps, he will learn it.

The affection which Little Pickle, and still more
that which his elder brother Jackoo, seemed to have
for me, was very welcome. I can't describe how I
valued it after the long isolation in which T had
hungered so painfully for a little human love. I
had often, in my solitude, looked back with feelings
of stinging remorse and shame on the days when,
both at College and after I left it, I was ass
enough to '*' feel proud scorn " for the fellows about
me ; and I knew how well I had deserved and-needed
the heavy retribution which had now come'
upon me. "With what measure ye mete," thought
I, " it shall be measured to you again." But then there

was also a sort of consciousness of having been forgiven,
and welcomed back to the Father's heart,
like the prodigal son — a sense of a divine peace in
the assurance, not . only of that forgiving love, but
of the blessings which His chastisement was intended
to bestow, and had bestowed, upon me. So
that when these two poor little mortals put their
hands in mine, and looked up in my face with
their sightless eyes, and a strangely touching wistful
expression on their dark countenances, and pressed
my hand in token of their affection, I felt as if I
understood both the existence and the love of Grod
as I never had done in my life before.

Sometimes a touch of the old suspiciousness and
distrust that used to plague me, would make me
think — " Pooh ! that affection is merely ' cupboard
love.' They know you bring them food, and protect
them from various woes and troubles, so they
sneak up to you, as some greedy little beggars
used to do at school when they thought you had
any ' goodies ' to give them. What is such love
worth ? " Then I bethought me of certain conversations
once held in early summer evenings at
Aldclyffe Priory, and of one in particular in which
my companion described her thoughts after her
father's death and her return home. I remembered
how she said that now she saw that love must be
fostered by doing something to help and serve
those we love ; and then I saw that though the
higher and nobler nature loves without expecting

any return, loves even in spite of ingratitude and
cruelty, yet that in the Divine plan of the Universe,
love is first awakened in the lower or less developed
nature towards the higher being in consequence of
kindness shown and benefits conferred by the latter
on the inferior being. This thought not only made
me quite easy in my relations to Jackoo and Pickle,
but brought me a deeper sense of harmony with all
God's dealings towards me, and of His great love.

My enjoyment in the affection and growing intelligence
of these two children was somewhat
marred by what was evidently a sort of dull ill-tempered
jealousy on the part of the others. When
they noticed by their sense of smell that my little
favourites were with me for some time, they would
come creeping up, snorting viciously, and as soon
as they thought I was out of the way they would
set on their offending brethren and worry them
to the best of their infantile ability, till the little
one sobbed and roared with anger or pain. True,
Jackoo defended himself and the Pickle with considerable
vivacity; but it was a nuisance having
these quarrels, and then being obliged to punish
the aggressors. If I could only have reached their
dormant moral sense, or even have explained to
them the strict connection between wrong-doing
and inevitable chastisement, I should have been
less wearied and worried myself. But I didn't give
up trying ; and after a considerable time I began
to see some fruits.

Poor little rascals ! I dare say they often thought
me very hard and cruel, when I was only doing
my best to serve them —doing them in fact more
good than if I had removed every thorn from
their path. For by sometimes leaving them to
suffer from their own mistakes, or small sis, I
felt I was training them to avoid these errors,
and to shift for themselves. Whenever I could,
I explained to Jackoo and his brother why I allowed
them to suffer in any way ; and by degrees, I
think Jackoo and I, between us, drove some notion
of this kind into the pates of the other young
boobies. So, with this view, if I saw them cutting
their feet among shells or pebbles, stumbling over
trunks of trees, &c., because they wouldn't mind
my orders or advice, I virtuously refrained, for a
time, from helping them.

I remember once, when Jackoo had infused some
portion of his own intelligence into Little Pickle,
a conversation to this effect went on between the
child and myself, his brother aiding me as interpreter.
It arose thus. In spite of the furious
hostility of my indefatigable dogs, those mischievous
rodents above-mentioned kept burrowing along the
edge of the wood, and sallied forth in the evening,
occasionally in considerable force. If the' chanced
to come near the boys there was a great hullabaloo,
for I found the nasty creatures had more
than once climbed the palisades of the nursery
at night and woke the lads out of their sleep by

nibbling at their toes. Of course as soon as I
discovered this, I let the dogs run loose at night,
and covered in part of the nursery with hurdles
and turf for a sleeping apartment. But all the
children were sometimes in mortal terror of the
vermin and appealed to me piteously for protection.
Little Pickle on one occasion had scented them
on his way home to bed, and was crying and
calling to me in consequence. I did not answer
him at first. At length he began putting out
his hands in all directions — I suppose to feel if I
were near, which I was. As soon as he clutched
my extended paw, he was quiet, began to
caress me in his dear little clumsy fashion, and
when he reached the shed went to sleep quite
happily. But the next morning he managed to
say to me something like this — " Why did you let
me go on crying so long ? why did you not take
my hand sooner ? You were quite near." '' Yes,
Pickle," I replied, "but I wanted you to learn to feel
for, and take my hand." "But why should I?"
he wanted to know. "Could you not have driven
away the rats, and helped me without my calling
out to you, or feeling for your hand at all ? "
Yes, Little Pickle," I answered, " and you don't
know how often I have helped you. But you see
I also want you to know and think about me and
to love me, for you will be all the better and
happier if you do. And you won't know anything
about me, or care a bit for me if you get all you

want without asking me for it, and if you don't
know that I love you and am always caring for
you." This idea I afterwards expanded in various
ways, and was pleased to find how thoroughly Jackoo
understood it, and helped to impress it upon his
brother. But in the elder lad's case, all this greatly
developed his own religious feelings. A little later,
I followed up my lesson to Pickle by saying that
besides learning to trust and love me I wanted him
to exert all his own energies. "You are a human
being," I said, " not a mere animal, like a dog ora
rat. When you first came I always took your
hand ; but now I want you to feel your way with
a stick, to show you how to do your best, yourself.
You may be sure if you will only do your j^art I
will do mine."

I little thought when I went aboard the '' Southern
Queen" in the London Docks I was going out to
keep school in a Polynesian island, and to act as
nm'semaid into the bargain. But oh, the comfort and
peace with which I now passed the days and went
to my downy couch at night after I undertook these
maternal and scholastic duties, compared with my
previous lonely and useless life ! And if Jackoo learned
something by teaching his brother, certainly I learned
a great deal more, myself, by teaching them both.
How I longed that a certain beloved and bewitching
Undine in the old country could get a hint or
two amid her " religious difficulties," also, from what
was explaining and removing so many of mine.

Among my early endeavours with Jackoo, I had tried
to give him a bit of an idea as to his Conscience,
and one day I was mightily pleased to find him engaged
in doing the same for Pickle. And I could not
help noticing the greater firmness with which both
of them seemed to grasp and retain the idea of Duty,
of Eight and Wrong, when they had got a steady
hold of the thought of God as the Author of all that
was right and good and loving, and the source of
those feelings we call the voice of conscience. Only
it seemed a difficult matter for them to believe that
I myself was at all inferior to God, and bound to
obey Him. Certainly the sight of mountains, and
ocean, especially of the sun, moon, and stars is a
great help to the worship of the One True God.

Hence, I saw one main reason for the need and
unspeakable value of ready as well as frequent access
to the influences of Nature, from which dwellers in
towns are so lamentably debarred. This explained tome
partly the profound love and admiration that
have been felt by innumerable hearts for the great
poets who have specially honoured and worshipped
Nature, — Wordsworth, Cowper, Byron, — Ruskin, also,
the poet of Prose.

Thoughts of this kind, as I sometimes lay, looking
up to the glorious stars, and the infinite depths of
space, crowded with constellations, helped me to
comprehend and sympathize with the passionate
desire I knew my grandsire used to cherish, that
men would understand and enter more fully into

that grand conception of worship, as distinguished
from prayer, which he maintained the finest poets
had often felt and expressed better than most divines.
Yet there was one preacher, he said, a great American
(who, however, was very much of a poet in prose),
that had expressed the idea very beautifully — and
then he read me parts of an Essay on Fenelon, from
which he copied out for me a noble passage which
I had ever since kept by me, and had learnt by heart.
The author has been speaking of the capacity of
the human soul for knowing and loving God, saying
that our love of Nature " seems to have " an affinity
with the love of Grod, and was meant as a preparation
for it" — that the beauty and sublimity of Creation
image forth His greatness, '* His overflowing love and
blessedness," — and then he continues thus : *' To us,
hardly anything seems plainer than that the soul was
made for Grod. Not only its human affections guide
it to Him ; not only its deep wants, its dangers, its
helplessness guide it to Him ; there are still higher
indications of the end for which it was made. It hasa
capacity of more than human love — a principle or
power of adoration which cannot bound itself to finite
natures, which carries up the thoughts above the
visible Universe, and which in approaching God, rises
into a solemn transport, a mingled awe and joy, prophetic
of a higher life ; and a brighter signature of
our end and happiness cannot be conceived." *

Thinking over this fine passage I remembered that

" On the Character and Writings of Fenelon." By W. E. Channing.

VOL. III. 40

at one time it used to rather trouble me that God
was said by Jesus to be " seeking " for worship and
worshippers. But since I had been living on this
island it troubled me no more. I was impressed so
deeply here with the ineffable grandeur and beauty
of the Creator, His surpassing glory and infinite love,
holiness, goodness, power, that I felt it was one of
the highest joys and privileges which even His great
love could give us to be able to adore and worship
Him — to lose ourselves in that measureless adoration
which the word "worship" implies. Grod can give
to man, I think, most freely — perhaps can only then
give Himself — when we open our hearts to Him in
that profound self-surrender, admiration and up-looking
love, which is called worship, and which is
evoked by His exceeding glory, beauty, goodness, love.
God can give only as man is willing to receive.

Although I was of course rather upset at first by
the lads' notion of my being as great and good as
the Almighty Being of whom I tried to give them
some faint conception, yet I soon reflected that God
was employing me to reveal Him to them, and make
known to them His will and ways. This clearly
had always been His method of revelation, in addition
to the teachings of Nature. " He made known His
ways unto Moses," sang the Hebrew prophet-poet,
*' His acts unto the children of Israel." And having
spoken "at sundry times, and in divers manners intime
past to the fathers by the prophets," He had
"in these last days spoken unto us by His Son."

The work given me to do was simply the same, ina
very humble way, as that which He had been
giving throughout the ages to His other children,
and pre-eminently to His beloved Son. But then
(2^ace my sceptical Oriel chum), why had I shrunk
from believing that Good meant Christ now to be tome
all that He had let me be to these poor children ?
Why should I not seek, and take, Christ's hand as
they took mine ? Why should I doubt that he
whose love passeth knowledge " is near me, with
me, ever ready and able to help me — as much now
as when he caught Peter's outstretched hand on
the stormy wave ? Why should I doubt if it were
right to speak to him to ask him for his loving
grasp of the hand, any more than that these lads
should appeal to me ? True, I could neither hear nor
see that dear Master — but neither could they see or
hear me. Yv'as the bond of love and helpfulness so
gross and material that the mere sense and power of
touch could make that right in the one case which
would be wrong in the other ? I could only spurn
the thought with contempt, and turn with exceeding
love and trust to him, the Son of God, whom the
Father had sent to be the Deliverer, the Saviour of
all who had faith enough in him to receive him.

How often those words of Jesus now sounded in
my ear — " Thy faith hath saved thee — go in peace''
For great and exceeding peace, through that faith,
did brood over my solitary soul.

* « « . #

40—2

Following up, therefore, my plans of Evolution
in Jackoo's religious development, I now began to
tell him a little about the great prophet of

Nazareth, the divine Son of God, and Son of Man.

*****

He had been saying to me one evening that it
was such happiness to him to have hold of my
hand when he was walking about, and that then
all seemed to go right and he felt so comfortable.
Ah, Jackoo," I answered, " Do you know that is
just how I feel when I have hold of Christ's hand.
God sent me to help you, and He sends Christ
to help us both." This of course led to a number
of questions, and I had to begin by describing how
Christ first appeared on earth in bodily form a long
while ago, one Christmas day, and how he spoke
of his and our heavenly Father, and healed the
sick, and taught people to love God and one
another — and how cruelly and ungratefully he
was treated, and at last was killed in great torture.
On different occasions I gave the boy some notion
of what afterwards happened, of our Lord's appearing
again to his sorrowful disciples, and then of his rising
to heaven, and how he was still working and
abiding with his beloved ones on earth — of what
his apostles did — of how the Christian Church was
formed, and why those who entered it were
baptized. I dwelt especially on how Jesus and
his apostles always asked those who needed his
help to have faith in him, just as he, Jackoo, got

help from me, which Sandy, Sweep, and Brownie
did not get to the same extent, because they
did not believe I would help them — did not, in
fact, trust me. From that it was not difficult
to go on to describe the moral and spiritual help
which Christ gives to those who trust him — help
in overcoming their faults, in becoming unselfish,
and brave, just as I tried to help my pupils to do
and to be what was right and cleanly, and good.

While going through all this with Jackoo I
began to realize — as I never had before — St. Paul's
meaning when he speaks of being "justified,"
or " made righteous," by faith. I didn't know
whether my interpretation would pass muster with
orthodox theologians, but I saw that Jackoo and
his brother went right, kept right, and did right,
just so far as they trusted me, learnt of me,
minded me, sought my advice, grasped my hand.
Hence I could not help thinking this is what St.
Paul meant we ought to do with regard to Christ,
and that then we also should do right and keep
right.

So I explained to Jackoo that even as he had
learnt to take my hand — to trust and obey me, so I
had learnt to take my Master's hand and trust and
obey Christ; that now he, too, must learn of my
Master, trust and obey him, and listen to the
voice of Grod in his soul. I tried to explain to
him that in seeking and taking my Saviour's
hand, in loving, obeying, living with him, I found

I was loving and dwelling in God, — his God and
our God, his Father and our Father — and in that
abiding, that communion and love, I had found
my true life and joy, my rest and peace. I asked
my pupil to believe that he would find his peace
and joy there also. Then I encouraged him to
pray, and tried to make him feel sure that God
would always listen to harris and help him and
answer him by His Holy Spirit and by His dear
Son — and that experience would make him more
and more sure of this every day of his life, and
in every hour when he sought that help.

Thus it came about that after a time Jackoo
asked me to baptize him, " and give me home in
church of Christ." Poor little fellow! It was
very touching to see the earnestness with which
he gradually drank in all I have now been
describing, and his delight when he mastered
one idea after another. But Rome wasn't built
in a day.

All those curious experiences, above mentioned,
with my little dusky unfortunate brothers, led, I
suppose, to the singular dream I had one night
but which perhaps is hardly worth writing down
especially as I begin to doubt now if I shall
ever see Old England again. I think my island
must be altogether out of the track of any vessels
going anywhere. But I shall begin boat-building,
using wooden pegs for nails, again in a day or
two, and try if I cannot make better progress.

Johnny would be able to be of some use in that
line now.

I found him most anxious and pleased to learn
all I could teach him in the carpentry line, but
alas this was very little. I thought I should have
become more expert by practice, but I didn't find
it so. What would I not have given now for some
early practice and scientific training when at school
or college in the use of tools and in carpentry.
For I found not only that I could make nothing
fit with all my clumsy *' trying " and cutting,
and squaring, but that I had so completely blunted
and spoiled my tools that they were becoming
useless. Hence I was obliged before long to
acknowledge I should certainly never be able to
build a boat with my present appliances, and
that if no other means of escape offered, I should
live and die here in my beautiful prison. I began
to think that it not only lay far out of the
ordinary course of any vessels navigating these
seas, but that it must be systematically avoided
by enterprizing savages as a place haunted by evil
spirits, and therefore that my chances of communication
with the outer world must be postponed
for ever and a day.

In proportion, however, as my hopes of deliverance
receded into the far distance, as I may have
said before, a future world of beauty, of " lovejoy,
peace," became increasingly real to me, and
a growing source of happiness. While the dreams

and aspirations of early ambition, of all earthly
joy and love, faded away, I found that I could
realize with an ever-deepening intensity the
blessedness

"Of the grand world to come."

Sundry passages in the book of " Eevelation "
now became lighted up with extraordinary splendour,
and teemed with sublime meaning, so that I
sometimes discovered I had been lost for hours
together in sweet and lovely visions of all that
might be conceived of heaven; or I found that
I had been writing page after page beneath the
shade of a palm-tree on the cliff, recounting the
imaginary, yet perhaps most true and real, scenes
which I dreamed I had witnessed in rapturous
visits to heaven. I was, of course, not a little
helped to soar on those " wings of contemplation "
by the matchless beauty and exceeding peace of
the scenes actually around me, for now they not
only filled me with ever-new delights in their
singular loveliness, but spoke to me as manifestations
of the love of Him who was designing an
infinite and eternal joy for all who would receive
it. I knew indeed that " Eye hath not seen,
nor ear heard, nor hath it entered into the
heart of man to conceive, the things which
Grod hath prepared for them that love Him"
but I also knew, began to feel, that in His
tender love He has so fashioned this outward
world as to marvellously help us by eye and ear

as well as by the imaginations and affections of the
heart to believe in the blessedness for which weare
destined.

Sometimes these glimpses into that " hereafter "
came to me " in the still summer noon " — sometimes
in the sweet peaceful evening twilight,
which I was far enough south to find, though
brief, yet long enough to be very lovely — and
then again in the glorious freshness of early
morning under the exhilarating influence of dawning
day, when the first rays of the rising sun were
streaming over land and ocean. But the most
bewitching season of all, when I seemed completely
carried away from earth into the heavenly world,
was in the deep stillness of a radiant moon-light
night, on the seaward cliffs backed by my palm-groves,
or amid the majestic pine woods and their
sheltered nooks and glades, or in the bright open
turfy lawns, flooded with moon-light, by which
their shadowy grandeur was relieved.

In spite of many an hour of heart-ache at other
times, it is impossible to describe the happiness
of those seasons of soaring fancy, when I appeared
to tread the very gardens and courts of heaven,
and to enter into the loving purposes and designs
of Him who is Light and Love, and in whom
"there is no darkness at all." It was all so
divinely real to me in such hours — God seemed

so tenderly lifting me up to look into "the land
beyond the sea " — His Son who had told us there
were "many mansions in his Father's house,"
seemed very so near to me, so gently, lovingly,
guiding me to behold the glory and blessedness
awaiting those who " overcame unto the end "
that I began to think this present life was buta
troubled dream, and that the world I entered in
those transporting visions was the true waking
reality.

The book of Eevelation, I have said, especially in its
seventh and two concluding chapters, fed my dreams ;
and much of the poetry of my beloved Byron, with
some of Wordsworth, the Ettrick Shepherd, Keats,
and Shelley, helped to lift me up to these Pisgah
heights of vision. Thus I found I was not being false
to my early faith, to the glorious worship and creed of
him who I knew was gone to "the realms of the
Blest" where he would find his worship of Joy fully
unfolded from the bosom of eternal and self-sacrificing
Love. I was only transporting his visions from earth to a
brighter, fairer scene, where there would be " no more
death, neither sorrow, nor crying, nor any more pain,"
where they shall hunger and thirst no more, where
Christ shall "lead them to living fountains of water
and where Grod shall wipe away all tears from their
eyes."

I know not that it was altogether safe or well for me
to be so often lost in such glorious dreams. I fear I
was becoming too visionary for my bodily well-being.

But I was suddenly awakened out of them in a
startling way.

The day following the little ceremony by which
(greatly to my own astonishment, I confess, only it all
seemed to come about in such a natural way), I
found myself giving my beloved young pupil and
brother a welcome into the Society which Christ
formed 1800 years ago, as the commencement of the
kingdom of heaven on earth, I had a curious longing
once more to ascend the lofty mountain which I had
not climbed since the children had been in my charge.
For of course I did not like to leave them for eight
or ten hours shut up in their nursery, and they would
certainly have got into no end of troubles and dangers,
if I had left them to wander about by themselves.
But at length I could not resist the longing to " go up
higher ; " and so, starting the next morning at sunrise
with a good supply of provisions, which Jacky and his
brother helped me to carry, and with the male terrier
(his wife having to stay with her babies), we, the
whole seven of us, set out on our pilgrimage. It was a
delightful expedition, in spite of all the bother caused
by having to keep my little drove of sheep (or pigs)
in line ; (this, in fact was so difficult that at last I
had to " rope '*' them like Alpine travellers). And
when I had encamped them in a charming little nook,
given them water to drink and a good store of food
(which I left in charge of Johnny) and had explained
to him that they must remain there quietly till I came
down again, I commenced the ascent, accompanied

by my faithful and rejoicing Rattler. I was almost as
happy as he was, when once more climbing the picturesque
heights; but when I began to see the lovely
deep blue waters stretching " far, far away " in every
direction, my thoughts would roam across them to
distant lands and beloved friends and old memories,
till my eyes were misty, and I almost repented having
climbed those heights again. I could well understand
why St. John, on the isle of Patmos, thought
that in heaven there would be " no more sea." Suddenly,
as I turned the corner of a great projecting rock
and got sight of a part of the ocean previously concealed,
I could scarcely believe my eyes— for there was
a fine three-masted vessel under easy sail, standing in
towards my island home. Before I had recovered from
my transport of delight and astonishment, the lookout
man had evidently caught sight of my white flagon
the cliff, for I saw the ship's head turned towards
it, and the yards swung round. (I could almost fancy
I heard the shivery rattle I had been so used to.) How
fast I scuttled down the mountain, springing from
crag to crag in a way that nearly put an end to all
further trouble in that or any other earthly matter on
my part, I need hardly say. But when I reached the
little camp, in a state of tremendous excitement, I
found to my great distress, that two of my wretched
little rascals had actually gnawed through the rope
that tied them to their companions, and were nowhere
to be seen or heard. Of course my first impulse was
to speed on my way to the shore, leaving the lads till I

could return and find the delinquents ; but a moment's
reflection told me that would be an inexcusably shabby
trick. Not only would it probably have been impossible
to find them in those pathless woods till they
had perished of hunger, but there was an old danger
in an aggravated form. Johnny told me that I and
the dog had not long left them when the nasty vermin
already spoken of had come on them in swarms, eaten
all the food I had left with him, and in spite of beating
at them with sticks, had even begun trying to gnaw
their feet. Was there ever such a strange quandary
for a poor prisoner and his friends to be placed in ?
What on earth was to be done ? The words, " Do as
you would be done by " somehow kept ramping through
my mind amid all the flurry and agitation of the
moment. And if I disregarded that voice, and left all
the lads to their fate, or even only the two strayed
lambs, how could I ever chatter to Johnny and Pickle
about conscience again ? So I set Rattler to hunt
about in the woods and did the same myself as fast as
I could, trying to still sundry heart-throbs by reflecting
that the ship would approach the island cautiously
on account of coral reefs — that next the boat sent off
would take some time before it could land — and that
then the exploring party would probably occupy a yet
longer period in hunting about for the owner of the
flag, or perhaps in filling a few casks with water. So
I searched on and on, at some risk of losing myself in
the woods, when I had once left the original track
which I had made, selon la regie, by notching trees. At

length to my inexpressible delight I heard my sagacious
terriers bark, and rushed to the spot just intime
to prevent a violent quarrel between him and
Messrs. Sweep and Sandy. The latter had picked up
a thick bough and was laying about him vigorously,
while the dog was preparing for an " ugly rush *' which
would probably have done for poor Sandy. I soon put
a stop to all warlike proceedings, and was rewarded
for my mediation by an amount of dumb delight and
quasi-gratitude on the part of both the little sinners
when I took them by the hand, which was considerably
m excess of anything on their parts I had witnessed
before. So having regained the track to my extempore
camp, though with some difficulty and not without a
deal of intensely painful delay they trudged along
with me in a much more docile fashion than I had
previously known them to exhibit.

I found good little Johnny keeping faithful guard
over the other two, but they were all dreadfully
hungry and tired, so that the pace of our return
journey was sadly deficient in seed. AVould the
Captain of the vessel have patience ? Would the
men who I doubted not had been sent ashore,
have found my cave, and thereby be encouraged to
a further search, or would they have had orders to
return quickly if they found no one on the coast ?
Masters of trading vessels, officers and men in the
merchant shipping, generally, are very different
from those in the Royal Navy. They are greatly
pressed for time. They might see signs of a hurricane

coming on. A falling barometer might in jove
minutes destroy eyeij chance I had of returning to
Europe. A wild rush of thoughts like those kept
hurrying through my brain. Never can I forget, if
I lived a thousand years, the conflicting feelings of
joy and wretchedness, of hope, anxiety, and fear
during the hom's that intervened between my first
sighting that vessel and our debouching from the
last lines of the wood on to the familiar shore.
But the first sight that caught my eye as we came
through the wood filled me with unutterable thankfulness
and joy. It was the stately ship riding at
anchor not half a mile out at sea. I took ofi" my
cap in extasy and waved it with an uproarious
cheer, and the next moment — saw with almost
equal excitement of a very different nature, a boat,
with water-casks on board, pulled rapidly across the
lagoon away from shore, by six stalwart seamen, and
just disappearing through the opening in the reef.
Once more I shouted till the rocks and woods rang
again as I sprang across the turf. Madame from her
canine nursery barked furiously. The fond husband
joined in the chorus. But the dash of the surf on the
reef effectually prevented any sounds from where I
stood reaching the ears of the crew. In an instant I
had hurried into my cave, caught up my fowling piece
and powder flask and was running as if for dear
life, with Battle beside me in a state of tremendous
excitement, to the top of the cliff by my flag-staff.
There I saw the boat nearing their vessel as fast as

the great ocean-rollers allowed. With hands trembling
so that I could scarce load the gun, I charged
both barrels heavily and fired one after the other —
clapped my telescope to my eye, and — thank Grod —
saw that the report had reached the ears of the
crew. At once all six oars were upright in the
air. The officer in the stern sheets swung himself round
to look and in twenty minutes' time the boat glided
up to my little pier, — a fine-looking young fellow in
officer's uniform sprang ashore and crying out in a
cheery sort of way'* Hullo ! are you English, old fellow ! '*
grasped me kindly by the hand. For the moment,
the rush of joy and the reaction from years of
pining hope and despair, as well as from the
tumultuous plunging about of the last few hours,
were too much for me. I sat down, and, I believe,
fainted. But I was soon all right again and talked
and asked questions, and told my story at express
train speed. The officer came with me to my
cave (which they had not discovered), sat down,
let me get food for him, for my lads, and
myself, and in a hearty English-gentleman seafaring
sort of way, showed a lot of genuine rough
kindness and sympathy. It was very, very pleasant.
But the day was now fast waning to a close.
He said he must be off at once, *' for twilight
don't last long in these regions, my boy ! " But
he declared he must take me off with him and
sleep on board, so as to have a good talk with
their captain. As I knew I could tuck the boys

up safely in their nursery for ten or twelve hours,
at night, I thankfully accepted the invitation, and
smartened myself up as well as I could (though at the
best I was a queer figure), and came away at once.

While I was talking with the chief mate (as he
proved to be), and afterwards when I was hoisted
up on the deck of the big ship, and was being introduced
to the captain and some of his passengers,
among whom were several ladies, it all seemed
like a dream. I wondered at the difficulty I had
in expressing myself, especially when I was surrounded
by listeners, and most thankful when the
captain kindly drew me into his private stateroom,
where we had a long talk over a meal such
as I hadn't seen since leaving England three years
before. My sleep was sound and sweet that night,
and when I woke the next morning, it seemed as
if I were in heaven.

The vessel was bound from Wellington, New
Zealand, to London, but some of their water supply
had turned foul or short, I think the mate said, and
so they came out of their course, looking for an
island — but now were going straight through the
canal, so that she was expected to reach old
England in less than six weeks. Ye gods ! how
it made my heart beat to hear this, and think I
might be at home and among all dear friends ina
jifiy. But as in all earthly things, the "aliquid
mari" must needs be present; and along with the
sweet and blessed visions of finding myself once more
VOL. III. 41

at Aldclyffe Priory, and among all old friends,
came the thought of one who was mistress of
Hurstleigh Manor when I left England, and who
might now have given a master to that lovely
place, or have " gone up higher." And those
other dear folks at home — Should I find them all ?
Hoi should I find them ?

But the fresh bright morning breeze, the life
and stir and bustle on board the ship, the kindness
with which I was treated by all, from the
captain and his officers to the passengers and the
cabin boy, soon dispelled any foreboding doubts or
fears, and "all went merry as a marriage-bell" in
my heart, till — the question came sternly up before
me — " What about the boys ? "

The captain, the chief mate, and the doctor
came ashore with me soon after breakfast, and
expressed a deal of interest in all they saw and
all I could tell them. But when I took them
to the nursery and showed them my poor brats,
and dilated on the interesting occupation they had
afforded me, I was amazed at the evident disgust
with which my visitors viewed them. I must
admit the children did not show to advantage
that morning. They had not had their morning
bath ; and having been mewed up since seven
o'clock the night before — were certainly not fit for a
fancy ball. Well, it was a pity, and I'm ashamed
to say, they did not seem to me half as delightful
and charming as before these new friends had

come to the island. Even dear little Johnny was
not now so well-pleasing in my sight.

"What do you propose doing with these little
wretches, Mr. Dayrell," said the captain at last, " if
I take you back to England ? "

"Well," I said, "I can't leave them here to die
or be devoured by rats — can I ? "

'but / can't take them — I promise you that,"
rejoined the captain a little gruffly. "I'm choke-full
already — can hardly squeeze you in — I wouldn't
have the nasty little brats among my passengers on
any consideration ; and the fo'csle men would
mutiny if I stowed them away in their bunks."

Here was a pleasant explosion !

"Could you not land them at Fiji?" I pleaded,
after a few moments. " I could leave them therewith
some of the missionaries till I returned ; for
I mean to come back to these parts and go to the
Friendly Isles after I've seen my friends once more
in the old country. I brought enough cash with
me when I left the 'Southern Queen' to pay well
for all our passages, ad I haven't had much
temptation to spend it here."

Can't do it, indeed, my dear Sir, at any price," responded
the captain, with the air of a man who feels
there is no more to be said on the subject. Then he
moved off, and the doctor and mate eyed me compassionately
; for at that moment I felt more intensely
wretched than almost at any other moment on the
island. My long seclusion had tended to weaken

41—2

me mentally, and to some extent bodily, so that a
blow like this coming after all the excitement of the
last twenty-four hours unmanned me. Presently the
captain returned, saying in a pleasant cheery way :

Don't let this business daunt you, Mr. Dayrell.
You or your friends will send a clipper steamer
straight away for the little carries, if you've got
the * blunt,' and land them at one of the Friendly
Isles. It could be here in less than no time, and
surely the lads won't take any harm in this beautiful
island for a few weeks. I'll let the men collect
and break up a lot of cocoanut and bananas for
them, and we'll leave your dogs to protect them,
puppies and all. You mustn't give up this chance
of getting back to your friends, who, may be, are
fretting themselves to fiddle strings, wondering if you
are alive or dead."

No, captain, no," I answered at last. " I can't
leave the boys. I know very well what would
happen to them if I left them here alone, or even
if any Polynesian natives came to take charge of
them. You see they are so utterly helpless — and
the eldest "

But I didn't finish the sentence, for all that this
hoy had been to me in my solitude, and I to him
in his sore privations, came rushing over me as I
pictured him deserted by the friend who had talked
to him about the love of God, and of Christ, and of
conscience, and how we ought to love and take care
of one another as Christ loved us.

Well, well," said the captain, " you needn't
settle just yet. Doctor and I want you to take usa
little way into the interior of the island."

He then told the mate to see that the water
casks were filled which they had brought, return to
the ship and then come back to fetch us off, as he
would not weigh anchor till evening. So we three
took a stroll to some of the most picturesque parts of
the island, after I had tidied up the lads, and came
back to feast on the little picnic hamper which the
captain had brought with him. Among other things,
my wretched attempts at boat-building had caught
the captain's eye, and he bade the mate send the
ship's carpenter to give me a few hints, and with
some of their spare tools to replace those I had
wrecked. I need not say I received both the hints
and the tools with great delight, and was especially
pleased to see a small grindstone and a capital
large new saw among them. My kind friend had
also told them to send me a main and foresail for
my little boat that was to be, and what I also greatly
desired and valued — a pocket compass.

When the chief mate returned for us he brought
a round robin sent by the passengers, beseeching
the captain in moving terms to let the poor little
natives come aboard, and declaring that they would
willingly give up the requisite room for that purpose
till they reached Fiji, if Mr. Dayrell was sure he
could not leave the boys behind him. This missive
and the sight of my bank-notes, evidently produced

some effect on the captain's mind. In the meantime
the doctor had been examining the children in their
nursery, and just as my hopes were rising high once
more, he came up and said in a quiet professional
^^-ay :

Why, three of those young beggars — the three
blackness — are in high fever."

Bless my soul ! " exclaimed the captain. " Is it
infectious ? "

"Very much so, I should say, from present appearance.
It's a kind of enteric or typhoid fever, I
fancy. But with' these carries, it's more difficult to
tell much about it the first day. Have the young
monkeys been sleeping in a swamp ? "

Then I remembered an unpleasant odour from a
spot near our picnic camp, when I was wandering
after the runaways, and saw lots of dead rats and
putrefying rubbish. The doctor continued :

And in their unfortunate condition, I suppose it
would be difficult, Mr. Dayrell, to get them to take
medicine or obey orders ? "

Down, down, went the barometer of my hopes and
peace.

"This settles the question, sir," said the captain.
*' I'm really very sorry" (and he looked so). "But
of course I'll communicate with your friends if you
give me their address, the moment I get in sight
of the Needles, and I'll be bound for it they'll send
out a little clipper boat straight away to your colony.
I wish I dare call at Fiji and start the first cruiser

I find there to fetch you and the carries off, so that
you might wait there. But I aren't do it. It
would knock a hole through my charter-party, and,
may be, cost me my captain's berth. But don't be
down on your luck. You're one of the right sort,
we can all see that, and won't capsize in a hurry.
But you have had a deal of handling the lads to-day,
and it wouldn't be right of me to take even you
by yourself aboard now."

Xo, no. I quite see that," I replied, " but it
would be less right, of course, than ever, for me
now to leave the children. Providence has given
them into my charge, and I could no more leave
them here alone than you could desert your ship if
she got among the breakers. So, thanking you
and all your companions most heartily, I must say
good-bye. Perhaps our friend here has got some
medicine you could send me. And, Captain, couldn't
you spare me one of your beats now — with sail and
oars to match ? Never lose anything for want of
asking — and, say, a chart with the Samoan group
marked ? "

"Ah, medicine, chart, a jolly little lamp and can
of oil and lucifer matches to boot, and anything
else that we can spare, my dear sir, you shall have
and welcome. But I aren't part with a single
boat. Suppose we have a fire on board, or meet
a cyclone, and lives were lost for want of that boat
where should I be then ? Very sorry, but I
aren't do it, on my soul. Besides, you'll see a

splendid little steamer blowing off her steam, and
whistling like a dozen, just inside that reef before
the year's three months older. But there's never
no telling what may happen at sea, so work away
at your boat-building, Mr. Dayrell. It's a healthy
occupation for mind and body. Though meaning
no affront to your carpentering ability, I rather
think there'll be that little steamer off your harbour
to fetch you and your babies away some weeks
before you'll ever be paddling your own canoe. So fare
you well. Sir. God bless you. You're made of the
right stuff, as the doctor said, and no mistake.
Keep up your pluck, and trust in Providence. Goodbye."


His words were consolatory, so I remembered
them. Then the doctor gave me full directions for
treating my patients, and away went their boat
skimming the water like a sea-fowl. It returned
ere long with the stores, &c., promised ; also
with a valuable chart of the Polynesian isles, and a
dot on it to show me exactly where my island lay.

Before the sun was down as I stood on the cliff
near the flag-staff, with Johnny and Pickle beside
me, I could see, through my glass, the men below
and above the great steam ribband, weighing
anchor and squaring the yards, while the ladies
and other passengers on the quarter-deck were
waving handkerchiefs. Then a flag was run up,
and a couple of guns fired by way of parting salute,
and I looked at the white-winged sea-bird majestically

gliding over and through the great purple sea
rollers of the Pacific until I could look no longer,
and I was alone once more ^yith my boys and my
own heart. . . .

But those boys were dearer to me now than ever.
And I had more than one very happy hour in making
Johnny understand — as I thought it best for his own
sake that he should — what had been lately passing.
The poor little man's gratitude when he had got it
all into his head was very touching and refreshing.
As I sat and watched the beautiful creature (for a
ship always looked to me like a living organism)
rapidly disappearing, I felt she had left me a blessed
legacy of new life — and Hope. Little I then guessed
the fate which was ere long to overtake that gallant
ship with all its kind-hearted, and happy living
freight. For "Destiny" — cruel, inexorable — seized
her prey — and chaunted over the foaming breakers :

The ship sailed on, the ship sailed fast,
But I left not a sail, and I left not a mast ;
There is not a plank of the hull or the deck
And there is not a wretch to lament o'er his wreck
Save one, whom I held, as he swam, by his hair.
And he was a subject well worthy my care"* . . .

Alas, at that fatal entrance to the Need Sea gulf,
not far from the port of Aden, where so many
brave craft have ended their voyage, a terrible
cyclone came down on the doomed vessel, and only
one sailor escaped to tell the tale. My poor letter
went down with all that was so far more precious.

"Manfred," Act ii., Sc. 3.

The sole survivor knew little of my story, and nothing
of my friends ; and I knowing nothing of the sad
catastrophe, vainly looked, day after day, for the
succour which those kind friends were unable to send.

Of course I had separated Jacky and little Pickle
from their companions on hearing what was the
matter, and I now took them to sleep in my cave.
The sufferers in the nursery needed a deal of attendance
and their moaning was sad to hear. The
wounds on their feet also gave them a good deal
of pain. It was an ill-starred expedition, that of
the day before, for the doctor attributed the access
of fever to all that then befel the children in the
heat of the day. But of course I couldn't foresee
those evil consequences — only it showed me more
clearly than ever what a difficult and trying charge I
had undertaken.

As T looked over the great ocean the next day in
some sadness, but in much more peace and hope, I
thought how soon they would get both mine and the
captain's letter at the Priory, and then how swiftly
succour would come. For somehow it never occurred
to me as possible that the stately ship which was
bearing my messages across those waters might never
sight the chalk cliffs of the " land of my fathers."

I did my little best for the poor fever-stricken
infants, but the worst of it was, that do what I would,
they could not be persuaded to do what was
necessary for their recovery, and promptly rejected all
the medicine the moment they tasted it. Then they

seemed to have so little vitality in them, were so
intensely irritable, and so quarrelsome, that I had to
confine them to separate compartments. Yet for
one thing I was thankful — they now always pressed
my hand very affectionately, instead of fighting and
kicking at me, and that was a comfort. Before long,
however, they became delirious, and then tore down
the palisades, threw off all covering, and altogether
were far too fractious for me either to doctor or
manage. Hence when the delirium passed into
stupor, and gradually their meanings ceased and
their little hearts were still, and the fever heat of
their skin became cold in the clammy chills of death,
I could only feel thankful that they were out of their
trouble, and that I had not forsaken them while
they were in it.

Johnny and his brother had the fever also, but
very slightly, and as they were very good and
obedient, in spite of making wry faces at the
medicine, they soon got all right again. But one
night, being burning hot, I was in a bit of a panic,
and thought — How if I'm going to die here by inches,
like Lord Cobham, before a slow fire ? However, it
passed off, and I had, in fact, a mere touch of the
complaint. This was a great mercy, for a severe illness
under the circumstances, even if I recovered,
would no doubt have been an immense calamity
for the chick-a-biddies as well as myself. And I
had no strength to spare.

So far Wilfrid Day ell's Journal. For what followed,
we must return to those whom he left in England
when he shipped on board the " Southern Queen."

It may be remembered that at the close of the
conversation which Lady Stella had with Benbow,
late second mate of that vessel, she begged of him
to find out Mr. Tarling, the late first mate, and offer
him a considerable sum for the ship's missing log-book,
reporting progress to Mr. Ellerslie at the
earliest practicable date. In the meantime Benbow's
hint as to the only way of getting a sight of the
log in case this innocent little "confidence trick,"
as Fred called it, failed, gave the young lady a
good deal to think about. So did another sermon
which she heard at this time from Dr. Eivers one
Sunday evening, on the words " And I, if I be lifted
up from the earth, will draw all men unto me."

Was it possible that the prophecy was being fulfilled,
and at that very time, by man and woman,
alike in Polynesia, Belgravia, Shadwell, and one or
two other places on the face of the earth ?

When Mr. Ellerslie came next evening he told
Stella that the following conversation had lately passed
with Benbow. He had begun by saying :

Could we not force the man to give up possession
of the log, by a little gentle application of the law ?
He has no right to keep it, of course."

What d'ye mean, Sir ? Bring the Bobbies down
on him ? Why, depend upon it, he'd have the whole
of that precious log up the chimney at the first
sight of their helmets, or of a detective's wide-awake
for that matter. He's alius a-looking out for squalls.
Xo, no, there's no chance that way, ^h. EUerslie.
Besides, I hope you don't think, Sir, I'd be mean
enough to split on him. D — n it, that's not my
rig.-'

EUerslie said that he thereupon meekly drew in,
and explained ; but he then proceeded to express his
strong disapproval of the idea that Lady Stella or
her maid could possibly go and live for a time in
Shadwell, as Benbow had suggested. ** Surely'' he
said, *' if you can find the fellow, you don't mean to
say he wouldn't give up possession of the log for a
cool fifty."

I don't think he'd give it up for five hundred,
just now," replied Benbow. " He knows the police
are looking for him. He's disguised himself as a
costermonger, and works on wharves and in the
docks like a common labourer to throw 'em oft" the
scent."

But if he got that money he could emigrate."

"Aye, but he wants to get back to the sea.
Besides, as I told the young lady, he's the most
suspiciously dog I ever set eyes on ; and he'd be

sure the Government were only laying a trap for
him, and had hooked me to trap him."

Well," continued Ellerslie, " you can but ask him.
Offer him £500." " I could do that," replied Benbow
thoughtfully, "fast enough. But I don't advise it."
He then went on to say that if Tarling refused the
offer, and anyone were afterwards to go down to
Shadwell and become intimate with him and try to
worm the secret out of him, he would at once put
two and two together, and be sure that the girl,
whoever she might be, was in the conspiracy against
him, and he'd shut up as tight as a battened hatchway.
" You had a deal better," he added, " in my
judgment, leave the girl to make that offer herself
when she has become pretty friendly with him. Of
course she'll tell him she wants the log for young
Mr. Dayrell's young lady."

For his mother," said Ellerslie, sharply. But
he saw the force of the man's reasoning, and reluctantly
reported to Stella accordingly.

When he had finished and received her hearty
thanks and was gone, Stella went up to her room,
and thought more than ever. She didn't come down
again that evening to wish her aunt and cousin goodnight,
but after her maid had retired, still sat thinking
till the small hours crept on.

What was woman's love worth, what were all those
beautiful discourses worth to which she had lately
listened — still more, what were the resolutions she
had then formed, the conclusions she had come to,

what were her own conscience and self-respect, her
lofty ideal, the teachings, the example, the love of
that high-hearted gifted soul left to perish on a
lonely rock in the far Pacific — what were they all
worth if she herself could make no sacrifices to save
him ? . . . And she knew too well that no one
but herself could go through with Benbow's scheme.
But even if she, lapped and reared in luxury,
could step down from her pedestal, and face all the
hardships, privations, toils involved in such a course
as the seaman hinted at, did not maiden modesty
forbid the step ? To what dangers might not a
poor seamstress in the low quarters of the East-end be
exposed if courted by such a fellow as Ben bow described
the chief mate to be ? The mystery that
hung round common life (or rather life-ins death),
in that quarter, her own utter ignorance of what
she might have to encounter and which left her
lively imagination full scope to conjure up and
exaggerate all sorts of possible evils, seemed absolutely
to forbid the alarming enterprize. But the
man had suggested that she might induce one of
her maids to plunge into the abyss instead of doing
so herself. What a noble, chivalrous proceeding it
would be to expose one of these poor innocent
Hurstleigh country girls to perils from which she
shrank herself ! Besides, if the life of seamstresses,
shop-girls, and servants in those regions of foulness
and gloom was so terribly sad, might she not hereafter
be able to do something to alleviate it if, by

living among them for a time, she learned what and
why they suffered ? She remembered how her beloved
friend, and more recently the eloquent clergyman,
when speaking of Christ leaving His Father's
home in heaven, to come and dwell among the
sinful sons of men, how they had declared that there
were no means of really helping the poor, or the
degraded, until a thorough knowledge of their wants
and woes was gained by dwelling amongst them.
If no other beneficial consequence followed, would
not that be worth all the hardship and suffering that
might be involved ? She had read in a noble fiction
of a high-born lady doing just this very thing, and
she had heard of the yet nobler fact that at that
very time a lady of education and refinement (very
much in consequence of that fiction) had gone down
into the depths and established a seamstresses' cooperative
business in this same Shadwell to which
Benbow had pointed as the most likely locality for
making Tarling's acquaintance.

But before long, with another turn of the kaleidoscope,
the whole idea began to assume an aspect so
intensely absurd and ridiculous that the evil spirits
bent on keeping Wilfrid Dayrell alone on his island
till his death, must have mightily rejoiced. . .
And so to bed — scoffing at all Quixotism, sentimental
philanthropy, generally, and — at a few buried dreams.

Next morning, however, when, according to
appointment, Mr. Ellerslie called. Lady Stella was
herself again — that higher nobler self which had

been gradually gaming dominion during the last year
or two over the meaner elements of her nature.
And so that very day, accompanied by her faithful
ally who, though he greatly, of course, disliked the
Quixotic scheme, immensely enjoyed the excitement,
and much admired a plucky, unselfish character,
whether man or woman, Stella went down to the
Dismal Land, known as the " East End." There she
left her carriage in a respectable quarter of the
dreary district, and securely disguised with muffler,
veil, and cloak, penetrated the recesses of Shadwell,
and leaning on Mr. Ellerslie's arm entered the Cooperative
dressmaker's shop.

The gentleman did all the talking for her, as they
had fully arranged beforehand ; but Stella listened
with deep interest to the simple lady-like replies
and descriptions given by the benevolent mistress,
of the establishment.

On their way Mr. Ellerslie had urged the adoption
of what he called an innocent little artifice which
was at first repugnant to Stella's notions of straightforward
honesty, but to which she ultimately agreed.
She must pretend to be deaf, lest by speaking to
the lady mistress, her voice should hereafter be recognized
if she resolved on taking up her abode there.
And look here. Lady Stella," added her friend,
"You must remember to keep your eyes in rather
a winking condition when you turn at parting to
salute the worthy lady superintendent ; for if you
open them wide to gaze upon her, ten to one she'll
VOL. III. 42

remember you again for a year or a two. Seamstresses,
I imagine, with such peculiar optics as
yours, pardon me for remarking, do not abound."

Stella laughed merrily and promised obedience —
promised in fact "like winking" — as Ellerslie suggested.
So when they arrived, he introduced their

business by saying " This lady, Mrs. , has heard

much of your admirable work down here, and wants
to give you a helping hand, while at the same time
she wishes to provide employment for a young
person in whom she is interested. If she sends
you an order for twenty dozen of linen shirts which
have to be taken out by a Missionary to the South
Sea islands, could you employ the young woman in
question in your establishment, and how soon could
you promise the work completed ? "

I could certainly give the young woman employment
in that case," replied Mrs. , " if she brings

a good character and is well recommended. But
the order is rather large — we don't allow our young
people to work more than eight hours a day, and we
have a considerable order for mourning which must
be finished first."

"We could give you a month or six weeks, could
we not ? " said Ellerslie, repeating his answer very
loudly to his companion, who nodded cheerfully.

Oh, that would do, amply," replied the lady. So
after various questions and answers respecting lodgings,
hours, meals, &c., had been asked and answered
in reference to which Ellerslie intimated that the

young person would wish for a good deal of independence,
but might be thoroughly trusted, the
visitors took their leave.

Their mysterious journey, together, eastward was
of course easily accounted for by the necessity which
existed for getting information, if possible, respecting
the circumstances and locality in which Dayrell
had left the ship wherein he had taken passage.
They called, as they came back through the city, on
the ship broker who had chartered the Southern
Queen, and with whom Ellerslie had already, as we
said, been in correspondence. That gentleman informed
them that she was not returning home at
present, having been taken up for a couple more
voyages between Auckland, China, and the Straits
Settlements. He was very sorry to be unable to
add anything to the account he had previously communicated
concerning the depositions made before
the Naval Court of Inquiry at Apia, and he was
afraid nothing more would now be learnt respecting
Mr. Dayrell unless they could obtain information from
the two missing seamen, the first and second mate, who
were however supposed to be somewhere in England.

Both Stella and her companion were delighted, at
first, at the sheltering kindness and care which
they both felt sure would be extended to "the
young woman" who was about to enter the lady
superintendent's co-operative establishment. But
before she had been an inmate of it a week Stella
saw — as Benbow had wished, but had not liked, to

42—2

suggest — that in all probability the very security and
care enjoyed there would be fatal to her plan of
becoming acquainted with Mr. Robert Tarling,
whilom chief mate of a certain barque-rigged clipper-built
vessel. And so it proved. The respectability,
refinement, and watchful kindness which surrounded
and comforted the new dressmaker during the first
week or two of her strange existence in the dreary
abyss, as it seemed to her, into which she had
descended, greatly helped to reconcile her to the
changed life she had now to lead. But meeting
Mr. Benbow one evening by appointment, and complaining
that she seemed to be making no progress,
he replied that he didn't see how she could, as long
as she worked at that respectable establishment and
kept herself to the company of the girls who worked
there. His plan had been to introduce her to a
young woman with whom he rather shyly confessed
he was " keeping company," and by arranging an
expedition, perhaps down the river to Somerville
gardens, he thought he could take Tarling in tow
and beguile him into accompanying them. This
seemed a highly practical course, but Stella agreed
with the young man that it would hardly do (when
followed — if it was — by anything like intimacy afterwards
with the rough labouring man) to continue
her connexion with the Co-operative institution. Embarrassing
questions and complications would be sure
to arise, and it would be better to leave, before
than after they had come up.

Poor Lady Stella took this last step in her downward
course, of severing herself from the society
and employment in which she had been treated
with so much kindness, not without a heavy heart.
She felt she was at last and in stern reality, descending
into "the lower depths," and was now about to
face actual hardships and dangers of which as yet
she had had no experience. True, her dingy lodgings
with their bare white-washed walls (recommended
to her in that state for cleanliness), where she accordingly
had to reside, the off-hand and sometimes
supercilious treatment she experienced, the sarcastic
remarks which like the poet's "poisoned chalice"
she sometimes found " commended to her own lips,"
and even the coarse jests or sneers which just now
and then, though rarely, met her ears, all brought
before her, at momentary intervals, the magnitude
of the change from her whole previous life on which
she was entering. But to cut herself loose from the
only sheltering haven still open to her — Ah. . . .
It was a heavy cross to take up. Only — as she well
knew — in the strength of that great love and those new
religious elements of self-sacrifice and trust which had
recently taken so firm a hold on her mind did it seem
possible to go on with the task she had undertaken.

But it was none too soon to leave her first comparatively
safe and peaceful moorings. She had
stained her face, neck, and hands with the traditional
gypsey walnut-juice recipe, when first coming
to Shadwell; had trimmed her luxuriant golden

tresses ; had adopted the unbecoming, odious curly
friz " on her forehead, and the ugliest little cap she
could discover; she caught up the common innocent
slang phrases as fast as she heard them around her ;
but with all her artifices she could not quite conceal
either her beauty, refinement, or education,
especially from the lady-superintendent, who had a
keen eye for character, and knew well the difference
between the society to which she herself had
previously been accustomed, and that which her
noble benevolence had led her now to consort with.
So it was high time for Stella to leave her, or her
secret would probably have been discovered. But
it wrung her heart to see the pain which that " dear
good lady" evidently felt at finding her new employee,
Miss Eachel Pye, as she had been told to
call her, to whom she had felt strongly attracted,
drawn away, she feared, by a desire for a larger
and more dangerous independence — a freedom which
would enable her, unrestrained, to mingle in the
gayer and more questionable society of music-halls,
and might even conduct at last to " penny gaffs "
and dancing-saloons.

Stella, however, found Benbow's "young 'woman,"
a kind-hearted, well-disposed girl, rather rough and
bluff, as might be expected from her " bringing-up,"
but a true friend in whom she soon saw she could
trust, and in chatting with whom and attending a neighbouring
church, which fortunately had a sensible, large-hearted
incumbent, she now found her only comfort.

Matters worked out as Benbow intended. He
introduced Miss Pye one evening to Tarling (who
was not habited then like a dock-labourer) as "a
chum" of his little girl, and who was working for
the same dressmaker. Of course they soon became
sociable ; and shortly afterwards they all went down
to Somerville one fine Saturday, had a pleasant
time of it — the last that Stella knew for many a
day — and returned home, nobody the worse for
drink, all in good humour, — Tarling especially, for
he had plumped head over ears in love with the
pretty dressmaker, and found her, as he informed
Benbow privately, though a trifle too reserved,
greatly interested in navigation, and by no means
stuck-up," like most of the pretty girls he had
previously courted. But Benbow had given him a
hint that if he went in for courting, he must stint
himself in grog and dress neatly.

From that time forth Mr. Tarling did stint the grog
for a month, was persevering in his attentions, and
sufficiently amiable for Stella to find an opportunity
one evening, as he was walking back with her to her
lodgings from a stroll with the other couple, of confiding
to him the reason of her coming to live down there.

"It comes about this way, you see, Mr. Tarling.
A young lady whom I'm very fond of, and for whom
I used to work, has lost her sweetheart, poor thing !
He went out in a ship to New Zealand, and then
to a place called * Friendly Isles,' but for some reason
left it before they got there, and has never been
heard of since."

She was too well prepared to notice the slight
start the ex-mate made at these words, or the sharp,
suspicious look he threw at her ; and apparently
reassured by his companion's complete unconcern,
he quietly replied :

'rand what has that got to do with my having
the good fortune to meet you here, my girl ? "

"Why, I wanted a situation just then, and the
lady thought if I got work down among the seafaring
folk, I might chance to hear something sooner
or later about the young gentleman."

But why don't she and her friends ax the ship-broker
or owners about the lost lamb ? "

Oh, they have axed no end of brokers, and
billy-boys, or whatever you call 'em, and advertised
and offered rewards, and sent out a ship, and can't
hear nothing."

By this time they had got to the door of her
lodgings ; and as she gave the customary single
knock for "the ground-floor" (i.e., the landlady),
and turned to shake hands and say good-night, she
added :

"Now, if you were only a sailor-man, instead of a

mere stupid dock-labourer, ]mr. Darling, you see you
might be of a little use in the world, which I daresay
you never have been yet."

The ingrained habit of sarcastic banter was still
strong in her, and, like most innocent girls, she
knew not how apt men are to misinterpret any little
playfulness on their part. Tarling, moreover, had
not then displayed any of the repulsive features of
his character. Miss Pye was hopeful and happy.
The old tendency to graceful, playful flirting, for
the moment had also revived ; and accustomed to
be treated only with respect, in her innocence and
enjoyment of queer incongruities, it never occurred
to her there was any harm in what she had said.
But the words were scarce out of her mouth before
she felt all their imprudence with distressing force.
For quick as lightning, and no wonder, Tarling
snatched a kiss — the first he had ventured on. She
violently repulsed him, and, as the door opened,
rushed past the old lady, up the stairs to her room,
with a burning face and throbbing temples, leaving
her new lover not much surprised, nor at all exasperated,
but slightly amused. He, in his coarse,
rough nature, considered he had been invited to
take liberties, and he certainly did not intend to be
bashful or backward thenceforth in availing himself
of his opportunities. The old landlady was too much
accustomed to such scenes to pay much attention
to them ; but they set poor Stella thinking, painfully
— all the more because she saw that the girls

around her, without thinking any harm, so often
unintentionally or at least unconsciously, encouraged
boys and young men to take those liberties.

Why, oh why is there such a difference," she
asked herself once, when sorely distressed at what
she had witnessed as well as experienced, " between
the conduct and manners of girls in the upper classes
and of those among whom I am now living ? " Many
of the latter, she knew, were as modest and respectable
as the former, in spite of their surroundings ;
and all were naturally as pure-minded. "It is the
miserable bringing-up, and all they hear and see
from the cradle upwards that makes the difference.
Instead of being hedged round by the watchful
care of parents, and being shielded from all corrupting
influences, these poor children and young girls have
to go unprotected to school and to work; and, oh,
how often they are left to roam the streets long
after dark during eight or nine months in the year."
Then she saw that they were constantly accustomed
to think that the chief object in life was to get
"a nice young man" for a walking companion, or,
as they termed it, "for keeping company together,"
ani in the mean time "a little innocent larking"
could do no harm.

One evening Stella was sorrowfully complaining
over her work to her homely, chatty landlady about
these matters, and what they led to, when the old
woman observed bluntly :

Oh, Miss Pye, I can forgive a girl her first slip,

for they're as ignorant as they are innocent ; and
in nine cases out of ten it's ignorance as does the
mischief. But I can't forgive her second, for she
knows enough then to keep her straight."

Oh, then," exclaimed Stella, greatly distressed,
why don't their mothers warn them, and take more
care of them, before it's too late ? Must they be
ruined for life, body and soul, before they understand
the solemn trusts of womanhood ? "

There, there ! don't'ee fret about it. Miss Pye,"
said the old lady kindly, seeing tears in her lodger's
eyes. "Don't yer see. Miss, we're all in a bad
way like, and it can't be helped while we have
to live in this hugger-mugger sort o' bilin'. Why
the poor mothers is almost worried to death,
what with their chiltern and husband, and making
both ends meet, and getting a few shillings on
Saturday nights from their man before it's all gone
in the * pub.' So I can't see how the poor things are
to do any better ; but I do know it's bad for the lasses."

Aye, and for the lads too," said Stella, in a low
voice.

Next day Stella went and had a long talk with
the excellent lady at the head of the Co-operative
Dressmakers' Association, who was very pleased to
see her young friend again, and still seeming to be
so respectable. The outcome of their talk was that
a " Girls' Home " must be secured for the headquarters
and efficient working of a district branch of
the " Girls' Friendly Society," and Miss Pye undertook

to apply to some of the " high ladies " she had
known at the West End for contributions, while the
lady-superintendent promised to do the organizing
and administrative work, and to find a kindly-hearted,
suitable matron to superintend.

Thenceforward several cheques came in, including
one for £500 from " The Lady Stella Faulconhurst,"
which made the good lady-superintendent's eyes
glisten with delight, and the work went briskly forward.


After that last parting, Tarling, with some surprise,
found that " the saucy girl," as he called
Miss Pye, rather differed from the other girls who
had had the misfortune to be wooed by him ; and
he discovered it was necessary at first to be not
only apologetic, but to use special means for regaining
her favour. So he took the first favourable occasion
after making his apology, and begging her
not to be too hard on a poor fellow who had never
learnt manners," of hinting that though not a sailor
himself, he knew a good many about there, and had
heard something that might be of use to her. Of
course he saw the magical effect produced by his observation,
and followed up his advantage. They had
two or three walks together by gas-light through
the quietest streets Tarling could select, in the course
of which he told her a good deal about what he had
heard of the row on board a ship called " The
Southern Queen " (interrupting himself to ask if
that was the name of the vessel her young lady's

lover had sailed in), and then said that the man he
had talked with told him what had to be done was
to find out the latitude and longitude of the spot
where the young gentleman had left his ship and
gone sailing in search of the Friendly Isles." j

*' Ah," said Stella, " I remember my young lady
being told that this could be found out only by the
ship's log. What's that ? A big bit of wood ? "

"Ha, ha, ha!" roared the ex-mate.

Well, well, you needn't laugh so consumedly,"
replied Stella, with a toss of her head. "But just
tell me if you could get hold of that same bit of
wood, and find out those hard words, *latty-some-
thing.' If you will, I know there's a lot of money
waiting for you or somebody else, Mr. Tarling,
I can tell you. £500! what d'ye think of that?"
And her eyes flashed on her enamoured swain in
the gas-light, like her old diamond " Silver Star,"
on other lovers in other days, as she very imprudently
stopped and turned to look at him.

It's not £500 as I wants just now, my lovely
one," replied Tarling, with a look from which Stella
turned away more quickly than she had turned
towards him. "And it's nothing but what you
only can give me that would make me help you
to sight that 'ere log. What I want is your promise,
my charmer, to take me for better for worse
the rest of your days. Now don't trot away sixteen
to the dozen, my girl. I can walk as fast as you.
Can't you give me one more kiss, just for a treat.

now ? That's the way we do it down here, you
know, honey. . . . Come, come, this is all pretence,
Eachel. You're not so tarnation different
from other girls, I'm thinking, eh ? Now you
needn't be so everlastingly stuck-up, darling, though
you have worked for a lady. . . . Well, well,
then — you'll hear no more about that lump of
wood, or I'm blowed ! "

Indeed I'm not stuck-up," said the poor girl,
"but you're too rough and too much in a hurry.
And I do wish you wouldn't go into those flaring
gin shops, and come out with your breath stinking—"


Ah, well, you must lam me better manners.
But let's part friends."

That night when Stella gained her little room
and had locked the door, she flung herself on her
knees in a passion of tears, exclaiming " Oh, my
God, this is terrible ! Can it be right for me to
go farther on this horrid path ?"

And as she indignantly, not to say savagely,
brushed lifer hand over her burning lips, there
rushed through her mind, with strange and bitter
irony, a passage in Scripture which she remembered
having struck her when a child, as a grand picture
in which an old Hebrew prophet figures — "Ah,
yes ! I too," she moaned, with a smile, in her misery,
I too have unclean lips. Would that ' a live
coal,' a burning coal from heaven, or earth, or the
furnace below it, could touch and cleanse these

lips ! " Never since childhood had they been
touched by any man save her father and that
beloved one, far away — till this vile fellow had dared
to pollute them, once and again.

Unknown but great dangers seemed now to be
gathering round her. She knew she could extricate
herself from them at any moment, whenever
she chose to call a cab and speed away to the
sweet security and refinement of her peaceful West-end
or country home. But the image of her lost
lover, standing on some lonely desolate shore, or
toiling as a slave among savage tribes — stretching
out his hands to her for help with quiet imploring
looks of love and tenderness, or of reproach — rose
continually before her; and she looked up to
Heaven and " set her face as a flint " towards a
task from which she now knew nothing on earth
would ever turn her back.

Yet no one, she also knew, could give her help
in carrying it out, except herself. It would have
utterly ruined every chance of gaining the information
required, to have brought Ellerslie on the
scene, or even to have asked Benbow's intervention.
Hence she began to perceive only too plainly that
no one except herself could protect her from any
rudeness, or ill-treatment.

More than once, however, her conscience had
troubled her with the question, "Am I quite justified
in thus bamboozling that fellow ? In letting
him court me and fancy I am ever going to marry

him ? " But then she reflected that they had met
at a mutual friend's, that she had not only never
promised to marry him, never even given him
permission or encouragement to woo her, but
had shown a pretty considerable amount of antipathy
to him. Surely, she said to herself, a girl
who treated a lover as she had done would be held
guiltless in a Court of Honour, or at a Higher tribunal,
of having deceived her suitor, or even of
inflicting serious injury on his tender and susceptible
heart. On the other hand was she not, by
every law human and divine, bound to wrest from
him a secret which it was guilt of a heinous nature
to withhold, and on the discovery of which, a life
of unspeakable worth was in all probability depending
?

*' Onward, onward then I must go — and if . . ."
the handsome dressmaker's countenance darkened
as she paused on that last word, and then with
clenched hands added — " then his blood be on his
own head."

Once, when feeling nervous and depressed, Rachel
Pye had hinted her scruples, as to deceiving Tarling,
to Mr. Benbow as they once sat together at supper,
whereupon the honest tar had some difficulty in preserving
a respectful gravity, nearly choking himself
as he whispered to his sweetheart :

"Bless the good lady! she needn't trouble herself
much on that score. Why Bob Tarling has got a
wife, I guess, in most of them ports where "

Hush, hush," said the girl. But she, afterwards,
entirely removed Miss Pye's anxiety on Mr. Tarling's
account.

The next day Benbow was startled by a visit from
the " princess of the fairy tale in disguise," as he
called her privately to himself and his betrothed, with
reference to a thrilling pantomime he had once taken
that young woman to behold. For said princess took
him aside, and spoke with hushed voice. Yet it was
not the visit that startled him so much as the request
she came to make, and the look on her face as she
made it.

Mr. Benbow, will you please buy me a small
revolver and teach me how to use it ? "

Grood heavens, Miss ! " exclaimed the young seaman,
under his breath. " What in the name of heaven
do yer want that machine for ? "

Why, you see I go about here a good deal alone,
and the long dark evenings are coming on, and there
have been stories going about concerning ruffians and
garrotters. Besides, you knows I shall one day be going
out among the savages and cannibals, and I ought
to know how to defend myself — oughtn't I ? Wouldn't
you defend your life if you could ? I may as welland
better indeed, learn how to do it while I'm down
here than by and by."

But — d'ye mean get you a six-shooter ? " said

Benbow. " No, no, Miss, not if I know it, axing your

pardon. If that thing's got to be done, I'd better,

by half, let fly at him myself — not you, not you.

VOL III. 43

Why there'd be a trial for murder some fine day, with
hanging to follow ! No, no, it can't be done. For
Grod's sake, get that out of your head."

Mr. Benbow," replied the dressmaker, deliberately,
as the sailor, startled by her tone now, and the stern,
almost fierce, expression on the young girl's face,
almost as much as he had been before by her request,
turned and looked at her — *' Mr. Benbow, I've undertaken
this business and I mean to go through with
it. . . . And I'll fight in my own defence, as you
would, if need be, though there were hanging to
follow. . It needs no ghost to tell us
self-defence is lawful," she added with a short bitter
laugh.

Poor much-bewildered Benbow stood aghast.

Well I didn't think," he said at last, drawing a
long breath, "you were one of that sort."

Stella sat down, covering her face with her hands,
and then the sailor heard a little sob — whereupon
all his softer feelings of pity and sympathy came to
the top. So he began again :

Now don't'ee take on about it, Miss. We'll
see . . ."

I'm not going to kill the man," said Stella,
raising her head and looking straight at her companion
through her wet eye-lashes — " But oh, Mr.
Benbow, you don't know what it is to have the heartache
as I have had for many a day — to feel that
you had driven the one you loved best on earth,
and who loved you only too well, into exile and

perhaps a lonely death far from all \yho love him
. ." Then she hid her face again.

*'ril do anything on earth you ask me, Miss,"
said Benbow huskily, taking his hat and moving to
the door, feeling almost as if he could cry " for
company," but must do it alone.

God bless you, true-hearted friend I " said Stella.
"But you needn't look so scared. Merely showing
you're armed is often enough to save one's life —
without using a life-preserver. And you may depend
on one thing — I'll never use the little plaything except
in the last extremity — and you'll show me how
to hit, if need be, without doing mortal harm."

Will your ladyship swear to that, Ma'am ? " asked
Benbow eyeing Stella compassionately, yet still doubtfully.


Of comes she did, and before nightfall she was
in possession of a neat little four-shooter with powder
and ball to match. But Benbow had gone a long
way to make his purchase, lest he should ever be
recognized.

Stella felt a strange and grim delight when she
examined her new toy that night in her bedroom.
But when this event was followed by long absences
from home in the day-time, and by a curious coincidence,
Benbow, as was observed, always happened
to be absent at the same time, his fiancee (who of
course didn't know Miss Pye was taking shooting
lessons), and Tarling who was often on the watch,
became, the one slightly, and the other fiercely, jealous.

43—2

However, before long, the dressmaker became a
tolerably expert marksman, and the dangerously suspicious
excursions terminated. Eachel Pye at the commencement
of her studies, had said to her instructor,
Show me where to aim that I might disable a
cannibal, if he attacked me, without killing him. I
don't want to murder any fellow, even though he were
wanting to dine on me."

All right," replied Benbow, " look here ; " and he
tapped his chest under the right shoulder significantly.
Tarling's jealousy increased both his passion and his
determination to win this handsome, proud, saucy
girl without much more delay. When he first began
paying his addresses to her, he had no more intention
of marrying her than he had had in any of his previous
love affairs. '^ What does a sailor want with a
wife ? " he used to say with a swagger over his glass
of rum, *' hot with." But as he became better acquainted
with this particular favourite, and more
passionately enamoured of her, he began to think he
might do worse, and, if she would make up her mind
quickly, he'd take the fatal plunge. When, however,
he found the girl growing cooler and more stand-offish
in proportion as he became more aggressive, and
especially when he found out that she seemed " sweet
upon Benbow" he could with difficulty restrain his
wrath ; and at length it came to pass, as the days
sped on, that any awakening sentiment of genuine or
generous affection he had begun to feel for the young
dressmaker was being fast extinguished, while his

baser passion, and his determination to conquer her
pride, became stronger than ever.

While all this was going forward, Stella had ample
opportunity for hearing, observing, and sorrowing over
the temptations to which her poor sisters in the
humbler walks of life are exposed, and the disastrous
circumstances generally in which they are constantly
placed. " I will do what I can to help you, sisters
mine, depend upon that, when I return, if ever I do,
from these dark realms of Pluto's kingdom to the
light of the upper world."

No vow was ever more earnestly made, or more
faithfully kept.

Mr. Ellerslie came once, at her request, to meet herat
a coffee-tavern in the Commercial Road ; and when
they first sat down opposite each other at a clean
marble-topped table in one of the usual little wooden
boxes and looked in each other's faces, the incongruity
of the circumstances under which they were then
meeting with the surroundings to which they had
been accustomed was sufficiently comical to account
for the low musical little laugh that proceeded from
Stella and was at once echoed more distinctly by
her rather anxious companion.

That's right," said Stella, " you needn't have
looked so woe-begone. I shall pull through. Now
have you brought me any money — and some news ? "

He had brought both. Her immediate friends and
relatives were rather anxious about her, but were
quieted land silenced by mysterious hints as to

the important task she and others had undertaken
of following up a clue in absolute secrecy.
Some thought she had gone abroad, others asserted
that she was wandering about in Polynesia, making
morning calls on the natives with a view to confidential
inquiries. Mrs. Grey and her cousin had gone to
winter at Cannes, but often wrote to inquire. As to
the beau monde, of which she had been such a distinguished
ornament, " your disappearance," Ellerslie
added, " towards the end of the season was nothing
very remarkable. Many missed you, of course — many
mourned you — but soon recovered. As your favourite
Byron hath it,

'And gayer insects fluttering by

Ne'er droop the wing o'er those that die.' "

Then Stella told him as much as she cared to disclose
(which was not much), concerning her position,
and difficulties, and hopes of speedy success ; after
which he told her all the amusing anecdotes and
general history concerning births, deaths, flirtations
and marriages he could remember, which was a good
deal — gave her all the particulars he had been able to
collect concerning her aunt and cousin and the
Dayrells — besought her to be of good courage and to
keep up her spirits — implored her not to expose herself
to any real dangers, and to send a cab with a
message to his chambers immediately, or his house, if
he could be of the slightest use to her at any hour of
the twenty-four (without much suspicion that such a
step would ever be needful) — wished her great success

and a hearty good-bye — paid the reckoning, lighted
a cigar, and was gone. Stella saw him vanish with a
chill at her heart, as she got into a tram-car, and went
back to her dreary lodgings and heavy task, more
utterly dejected than she had felt since first undertaking
it.

'' Oh bother these tears," she exclaimed, indignantly,
that night in her dreary room. " I believe I never
cried from five till I was twenty — and now for the last
few months I've been always making up for lost time."

One pleasant little piece of business, however,
cheered her up, soon after. As Benbow had given up
taking a berth aboard any of the outward bound
vessels from London in order that he might be at
Lady Stella's service, she had insisted on his accepting
los. a week, since he positively refused taking more,
saying he could earn something by odd jobs. And
now, on ascertaining that his '' young woman " was
quite willing to go to church with him, Stella found
the money for a little furniture, made Benbow take a
couple of rooms, and then " get spliced " as soon as
the banns had been duly published. Bride and bridegroom
were very grateful and very happy, and Stella
was glad in their gladness, and derived benefit and
comfort herself from knowing of a nice little cosy
parlour where she could hold pleasant converse of
an evening with them both, occasionally.

But she had now begun to heartily detest the whole
plot, with all its necessary artifices, concealments, and
stratagems, in which she was engaged — and above all

she loathed the very sight of the man from whom she
had bound herself to extract the information which
would give the last and only charge of rescuing her
unhappy lover from his living tomb. Her interview
with Wilfrid's brother-in-law had painfully re-awakened
all the old home associations and memories she had long
been striving to banish from her thoughts, and as she
walked along the dark dirty streets near her lodgings
that night, heard the quarrelling and foul language,
saw the disgusting scenes which were even more
offensive, and then thought of the man whom she
must soon meet again in these surroundings, no
wonder if she lost heart for a moment, and bitterly
repented of having ever come to dwell in them.

But where could she go to find peace if she fled
from her present task ? Her luxurious abodes,
whether in town or country" were indeed free from such
dangers and foul environment as beset her here.
But she knew that those peaceful scenes, if she
returned to them with her mission unfulfilled, would
be haunted by accusing spirits, that one mournful,
yearning face, not reproaching, not beseeching, but
very, very sad, would be continually looking upon her
out of the dark, perhaps even in the midst of the sunshine,
and a voice from her own wrung heart, her own
accusing conscience, would be ever and again asking
her where was he who was nearer and dearer than a
brother. Deep yearning love, passionate remorse, and
ghastly fears, all in turns were attracting, goading her
once more to take up her cross and "go forward'*

She had need of all her courage, as well as faith.
For possessing abundance of the former quality, her
friends (as well as herself) had always given her credit.
And rightly, for she had more of that noble quality
than most women, which indeed she had often
shown in the hunting-field, in accidents from runaway
horses, and in perils from sudden squalls on lake, sea
and river. But now she was confronting very different
dangers from any previously experienced. She had
never before been in danger from her fellow-creatures —
never till recently had known what it was to be treated
with rudeness by any living soul. Yet it was not the
insults to which she had more than once been exposed
in the dark streets from drunken sailors or rude and
rollicking youths that chiefly distressed her. Even if
Benbow had not protected her from these as far as lay
in his power, she cared but little for what brought with
it only indignation and no sense of shame. It was
submitting to be courted by a man like Bob Tarling
against which her whole heart revolted, and which
naturally stung her soul with intolerable pain.

Well, have you seen anything of Mr. Tom's crony
lately ? " asked Stella, one evening, in the course of a
chat with Mrs. Benbow.

"No," replied that sprightly young woman, who
seemed always in good humour, and who at the
moment was busily engaged in trimming an old hat
with a new ribband just given her by " Mr. Tom."
"No, I can't say as I have. I fancy he's in the
sulks. Have you been a-snubbing of him ? "

Stella saw plainly that she must do something, however
hateful it might be, to regain his confidence if
she meant to go through with her undertaking, and
told Benbow to ask him to supper soon.

When they met, Stella, though reserved, was
gracious ; and indeed the mere fact of her coming to
meet him, or at all events not leaving when he came
in and sat down beside her, was highly encouraging.
He was not slow to evince his approval of that sort of
behaviour.

But Stella, while showing him as much favour as
she now dared, irritated him not a little by refusing
to take any evening walks with him alone.

This is all very pretty," he remarked, when he got
an opportunity of whispering a word or two in her ear,
by walking home with her, " but it's d — d hard on a
fellow who worships the ground you walk on, that he
can't never have a quiet walk and talk with his young
woman. . I say — when d'ye mean to come to
terms ? "

And I say, Mr. Tarling, when do you mean to
give me a sight of that old bit of wood. You can't
care much for my company and yet keep that dark.
My young lady's a-wearying, and the old lady too,
to get some news of her young gentleman."

Looked here, my pretty one. I have had a
deal of bother and expense about it. But there
isn't nothing I wouldn't do force. I'd go through
fire and water. . . jN^ow don't'ee hurry. I was
just a-going to say, my charmer, I can now put

my hand on it at any moment — and if you'll only
trust me, I'll show it you the very first night as
you'll take a nice quiet little stroll with me. . . "

"Oh, thank you, Mr. Tarling — that's really very
good of you. But can't you bring it with you to
Mr. Benbow's some evening ? "

No ! " exclaimed Tarling so savagely that Stella
started back. Tarling saw the poor young dressmaker's
distress at his refusal, as well as her
reluctance to go with him anywhere alone, and in
his rough hard-hearted way was a little bit touched.
*but I never have been worsted yet," he said to
himself, "and I don't mean to be now," and then
added aloud in a milder tone : " I'm not a-going
to let a living soul see that log but you — and not
you if you want me to lug it out before other
folk."

Well, no harm, I suppose, in asking."

No, no — but you see there's a poor fellow who
might get into trouble if it were known that 'ere
log (which ain't a bit of wood at all, but a book)
had been seen by any mortal man. So I've had
to swear not a soul but yourself shall see it, and
you have to swear you'll never tell man, woman, or
child you have seen it."

All right," said Stella, " I promise ; " for she
knew as long as she got the required information,
there would be no need to say how or where she
got it.

Aye, aye," said the man, " that ain't enough.

You must place your hand on mine, and make the
sign of the cross on the Union Jack of Old England,
and say the words after me."

Stella did all she was told, and now her heart
began to beat high with hope. She little knew
what still lay between her and the accomplishment
of her hopes.

There, that's a good girl," said the disguised
ex-mate benignly. " I see you're as good as you're
pretty. Now when will you take a quiet walk with
me, and see the log, and settle the wedding-day ?
To-night ? "

No, she couldn't go to-night, but tomorrow — if it
was fine. She saw there was no help for it, but
this. But she had one or two little preparations to
make before the interview.

One of them was to give Benbow a secret hint
that she was going out alone that evening with
Tarling. A single word was enough for that faithful
swain. But his task was one of the greatest difficulty,
and of some danger. If he followed them
sufficiently near to discern the way they went, it
was almost certain Tarling, who he well knew would
be sure to look round pretty often, would catch
sight of him ; while if he kept out of sight of
them, they would soon be lost to his view.

Have you got your log, Mr. Tarling ? " said Stella
with a bright smile, when they met the following
evening at the corner of a street in Limehouse, just
as the clock of Limehouse church struck nine.

My log ! " growled Tailing, as he stopped and
looked at his companion with a momentary and
savage scowl on his face. '* 'Ain't mine at all, as
I told yer."

Well, I suppose it's yom's for to-night, isn't it ?
But never mind whose it is as long as you've got it.
But are you sure you have got it ? "

"Aye, aye, lass — here it is all safe."

** Where ? I must know that you have what I'm
going for, this ugly night, or I don't go at all."

Tarling thought she didn't know all she was
going for, and though he couldn't help admiring
the girl's pluck as well as her beauty, he was now
fully convinced she'd be a very dangerous partner for
life — too dangerous for him to be tied to. All the
more need, therefore, to bring her to his terms.

"Well, here's the blooming article," he said, ashe
produced the log-book, and then hurried her on.
Up one street and down another he kept on walking
till she got a little confused, but noticed that
at last they were certainly getting nearer the river.
More than once he tried to persuade her, as on
previous occasions, ^ to go with him into a flaring
public-house (of which there were plenty, of course,
and have a little drop just to keep us warm, you
know." When she was clearly not to be persuaded,
and replied with indignant remonstrance, at last he
went into one by himself. As she stood waiting
outside, agitated and anxious, and pondered over
the two solemn warnings Benbow had more than

once offered her, viz., never to go out with him
alone of an evening, and never at any time to let
him give her anything to drink, the thought would
force itself on her mind : " Shall I run away to
my lodgings and leave him ? It is not yet too
late." Then once more she resolved to go through
with it, though when he came out, his breath
smelling strongly of the drink, and wanted to
turn in at another "pub." on their way, she
declared if he did she would make sail at once
for her home; and she meant it. But the certainty
that Benbow was in some way keeping watch over
her gave her strength and courage to proceed. Her
companion kept talking, telling her all the queer
stories he could think of to distract her attention,
and always assuring her they were only going a
very little farther whenever she wanted to stop.
Never in her life before had she felt what it was
both to will and to pray as she did then. But she
knew that every chance of success hung upon the
result of this interview, and she nerved herself todo
and dare all that had to be done.

At last her companion paused under a gas-light.
It was the only one within sight for a long distance,
and as she looked round she shuddered to see what
a lonely spot he had brought her to. The night
wind blew cold off the river. Not a sound was to be
heard save the distant rattle of a chain on board some
vessel letting go her anchor, far down the stream.
But just faintly visible, on the edge of the river.

about a hundred yards off, she thought she saw a
cottage with a light in the window. Help might
come from that quarter, if needed. It was in fact a
low beer-shop of ill-repute. How if help to her
companion, not to her, were to come from it ?

The weird silence was soon broken by Tarling, who
said in low unctuous tones, as he produced the log-book
from his big rough coat-pocket, " Can you see
by this light, my pretty' lass, d'ye think now, if I
show you this wonderful log ? "

"Yes," replied Stella, trying to hide the fear she
could not help feeling, " if you show me where to
look. But mind it's not a bit of use unless you let
me copy out, as well as look at, the latitude and
longitude as you call it I Ton my word, Mr. Tarling,
you seem to be making a deal of fuss about nothing
bringing me all this way. But never mind.
Here I've got pencil and paper. Now where's the
entry ? "

"Bless you, my charmer, you're in a precious
hurry to get away from your sweetheart. Can't you
call me Bob, dear, not Mister Tarling? But look
here. You'd better sit down on this bit of old
boat."

IS'ot if I know it," replied Stella, " at least, you'll
wait till I've copied down the right figures." The
man, not a little amused, yielded to her determined
resistance ; and counting on her gratitude for the
favour he was conferring, he turned over the leaves
of the priceless volume, and pointed out the particular

entry in question, which, she saw exactly
corresponded in form with what Benbow had told
her it ought to be, and the paper he had given
her. Trembling with excitement and glancing at
the six columns, " Hours," " Knots," &c., and gladly
skipping the "buncombe," her little fingers rapidly
wrote down what Benbow had explained was essential,
and as she finished and was putting the paper in
her pocket, she said " Thank you, thank you very
much, Mr. Tarling. You or your friend will now
have that £500, I think, before very long."

"Didn't I tell you, lass, I want something better
than £500 from you. Come, come now," he continued,
approaching nearer, " don't be squeamish,
girl. Let me have one kiss from those pretty lips.
We're going to have supper now, and then we're
a-going to be man and wife pretty soon, aren't we ? "
he added, as he tried to seize her arm. But she
sprang back with sudden violence, and said in a
tone he had never heard before from a woman's
lips though he was used to the roughest and vilest
of her sex :

May be, but you don't come nearer me till weare
man and wife." She began retreating, but still
facing the man.

Oh gammon ! Did yer come all this way, then,
just to tell me that spanking rubbish?" cried
Tarling with a vicious laugh. " I say," continued
he, pointing to the neighbouring beershop, "d'ye
see that lovely * Grand Hotel ' down there ? Why,

my lass, there's a fine hot supper waiting for us
there I Aren't you hungry ? Come along. What !
going to step it ? Then by all the devils in hell, if
you won't walk there, I'll carry you. . . ." He was
coming towards her again. ." Now don't'ee
be unkind — and so ungrateful too. Why after all
the trouble I've taken to get 'ee that blessed log,
did yer think I were to have only dirty gold in
return ? Xo, no, my girl. I've a soul above money "
and he advanced another step.

Oh, why did not Benbow come ? Yet how
unlikely that he should have been able to track
them to that spot. But might there not be a
policeman near enough to hear if she called for help,
or some brave man willing to save her ? Alas, a
policeman was rarely seen in such an out-of-the-way
place, where no respectable persons would go at that
time of night; and as for any of the denizens of
the locality, low tavern brawls, and startling outcries
of distress, unhappily were not so rare in that
quarter as to excite much attention or induce any
of them to risk interference, if they were ever so
willing to do it — which they were not. Loose
women, in far better localities than that, cry in vain
for protection from ill-treatment many a night in the
year in this great foul Babylon of ours. Yet when
the ruffian once more approached her and Stella once
again sprang back, she gave him a last chance, and
uttered a piercing shriek for help.

Hold your d — d row ! " exclaimed Tarling, losing
VOL. III. 44

all command of himself, as lie tried to seize her and
put his hand on her mouth, while he uttered a shrill
whistle. Stella noticed the light in the beer-shop
move, and knew that Tarling must have confederates
there. She saw the door open, and wrenching herself
from the villain's grasp with a strength he had not
reckoned on, and snatching her revolver from its
hiding-place in her dress, she exclaimed " Stand back !
or I'll fire ! " The light gleaming on the polished barrel
caught the villain's eye. He heard the click, was as
much amused as irritated at the idea of a girl fancying
she could frighten him by pretending, or endeavouring,
to fire a pistol, and made another dart at
her. Then came a flash — a sharp report — the bullet
entered his breast, and exclaiming " Hell blast you ! "
he fell heavily on the ground. Flinging the pistol
from her, and shrieking " Police, police I " Stella fled
from the fatal spot. In her agony of excitement and
terror, she had no conception in what direction to
run, till just at that moment Limehouse Church
clock struck ten, and she rushed with all her speed
towards it. Once near the Church she knew she
could find her way home, and was almost certain of
soon seeing a police-constable. Her ever-faithful
guardian, Benbow, who had been completely baffled
in his endeavours to follow his quarry by the numberless
turns and windings Tarling had taken, had at
last heard the dressmaker's agonized cry and then the
pistol shot ; and while she was rushing up one street
towards the Church, screaming for the police, he was

tearing down another which brought him full upon
the spot where he found the enemy, as he now almost
expected, weltering in his blood. But there were
other men beside himself who heard both shriek
and shot, and took a deal more interest in the shot
than in the cry for help. Five men of the river-police
were cruising off the Church, and swept down
on the scene in a moment. They quickly came on
the body lying in a pool of blood — they saw Benbow
rushing off (for a doctor, in fact, after doing his best
to staunch the wound), but, as they thought, to
escape pursuit. A man from the beer-shop came
staggering up half-drunk. Benbow was quickly
captured, and brought back. Presently one of their
number picked up the pistol. Tarling, or his dead
body, was at once taken to the nearest hospital, and
Benbow for the night to the lock-up in the police
station. As for Stella, seeing at last a policeman, as
she ran along, she rushed across the street to him,
exclaiming, " There's a man shot — in a row there —
down by the river-side. For the love of heaven, look
to him ! " and the man at once ran off in the direction
she indicated.

•*<«^sS'«)ci^SF'*i»>K

44—2

Trembling in every limb, Lady Stella gained Ben-bow's
lodgings, and then fainted away. Mrs. Benbow
who was stitching as usual in her tidy little parlour,
looking momentarily for her husband's return,
tended the poor dressmaker with affectionate kindness
; and, when she had heard her story, and Stella
was sufficiently recovered, helped her home to her
lodgings. Once safe in her little white-walled room,
as she sat with that precious bit of paper, on
which she had made her copy from the log-book,
pressed to her lips with intense gratitude, Stella
began to recover her usual self-possession. Presently
she knelt by the side of her bed and poured out her
thanksgiving, as well as a troubled prayer for the
villain who she hoped was now in the care of a
policeman and a doctor. Then her thoughts flew
across the seas to the lover for whom she had encountered
that terrible interview, but when she
passed thence back again into trustful thanksgiving
for having at last obtained the probable means of
that lover's rescue, and for her own escape, her heart
was at rest, and she fell asleep, and dreamed at first
of heaven.

Not so with Mrs. Benbow. To that poor woman's

grievous disappointment, when she returned to her
lodgings she found no husband there awaiting her ;
and full of dire alarm, went wandering about the
neighbourhood as far as she dared venture, asking
each policeman she met if they had heard anything
of the row that had occurred that night by the riverside,
and telling them part, though not all, she
knew. At last, as the clocks struck twelve, she
came across the constable who had been met by
Stella and had run down to the scene of action ; but
he had missed the spot, and could tell her little more
than she already knew, for he had found no trace of
the events which the girl had described to him, and
had consequently put it down to some hysterical recollection
of a drunken squabble. He took Mrs. Benbow's
address, however, and called on her the next morning
with a very different tale. Her husband was in custody
on suspicion of having mortally wounded a man who
was believed to be dying in the London Hospital. The
policeman mentioned having been accosted by some
terrified girl when he was on his beat, who had asked
him to look after a man who had been shot. Could
Mrs. Benbow give him any idea who that girl was ?
The poor woman was in a great deal too much
distress to reply very coherently, fortunately for
Miss Pye, and was hurrying to get her things on
and post off to the Police Court, with all the little
cash on which she could lay her hands ; the first
thing that occurs to the friends of any unfortunates
who have " got into trouble " being the necessity of

feeing '*a lawyer-chap" to bring them out of it.
Mrs. Benbow, however, with the instinctive caution
of her class in regard to all matters connected with
the police, successfully parried the man's questions relating
to the young dressmaker, saw him clear of
the house and the street, and then hurried straight
to Stella with the sad tidings shq had just heard.

Oh, Miss Pye, Miss Pye ! " she exclaimed, when
admitted to Stella's bedroom, and bursting into tears.
Whatever did you go and shoot that poor man for !
There's my poor dear man been taken up for murdering
him."

Stella started and turned very pale. "Not dead,
is he ? " said she, faintly.

"No, I don't know. Miss, as it's quite come to
that yet," replied Benbow's wife, fearing the poor
girl was going to faint again. " And let's hope it
never will. There don't be flurried — but you'll come
with me, won't you ? to the police court, and tell
his worship it were you, not my man as fired the
pistol ? " Then another sob.

"You may be sure, dear Mrs. Benbow, I'll do
that," replied Stella, putting her hand to her head.
Where is the court and when must we be there ? '

Oh not for three hours yet. They don't open
till ten."

Well, I am so glad you've come," replied Stella,
"for of course I'll go with you. But I've got a
splitting head-ache, and I fear I can't stir till I have
had some breakfast. But I want you, if you will.

to take a cab and go right away with this note.
Bring the gentleman back to the Police Court, where
111 meet you both. Tell him all the whole story,
and ask him what's best to be done. He's a lawyer
chap, as you call it, and you may trust him."

The little woman was very grateful and compassionate.
She refused downright to let Stella think
of getting up, but on the contrary insisted on her
going to bed again and getting her some breakfast
before leaving her. This thoughtful kindness in
the midst of the poor little woman's own trouble
probably saved the young dressmaker from immediate
and severe illness. The note she sent to Mr. EUerslie
ran thus — " Please come at once, but don't be anxious.
Mrs. Benbow, the bearer, will explain all."

Stella did not, however, get to the Thames Police
Comet quite as soon as she intended, being too faint
and ill to leave her room till it was nearer 11 than
10 a.m. But as it turned out this was fortunate;
for had she got there before Mr. EUerslie, and found
Benbow in the dock, she would certainly have edged
as near to the sitting magistrate as she could, and
then have told him quietly that it was she, not the
prisoner, who fired the supposed fatal shot. EUerslie,
however, as Benbow's counsel (he had stopped at his
chambers, on his way to the police-come with Mrs.
Benbow, to get his wig and gown), had been allowed
a few minutes' talk with his client, and found the
man resolute in insisting on the gentleman's making
Stella keep silence. He was pretty sure from what

he had seen of her that immediately on hearing of
what had happened, she would come and proclaim
her share in the transaction.

"It 'uU come right, my darling," he said to his
sobbing wife. "Don't you fret. Hush, hush — hold
your tongue. You see, Sir," he said, turning to
EUerslie, " they've no evidence against me, and
there's nothing to make 'em suspect Miss Pye — leastways
not if nobody seed them together last night.
So I say, keep it all dark — at all events at present.
You can get me off, I think, Sir "

"Yes," said EUerslie thoughtfully, "if the villain
recovers. But if he goes to earth, it will be a more
serious business."

Well, Sir, we mustn't let that young lady get
into trouble anyhow, 'specially now that she's just
got the latitude and longitude, for I know as I or
any other nautical duffer could now find out the
port that poor noble young gentleman ran for, when
they sent him adrift. No, no, she must have her reward,
and, by Jingo, she deserves it ! If it must come
to that," he added, looking at his wife and lowering
his voice, " between you and me, in course, Sir, I'd
a deal rather swing for it than she — though the
worst of it is there's that poor little woman. But
you see I led her into all this muddle, and I never
ought to have got her the pistol or taught her to
use it. But I thought it was all for the best. And
there you see, — if she hadn't helped me to get spliced,
nobody would have cared much what became of Tom

Benbow. I've no kith or kin as I knows of — and
that poor lady has got heaps to love her."

You are a fine fellow," said Ellerslie, looking at
the sailor with quiet delight. " But I must tell
you for your comfort there would be no sort of
danger to Miss Pye on the capital charge, even if
it turned out she had given that thundering
scoundrel the quietus which he richly deserved; and
if it were brought home to her door it would only
be a verdict of manslaughter and a matter of a few
months' imprisonment at the worst, in all probability.
But if you were found guilty, it would be a very
different kettle of fish. However, I'll keep the lady
silent for the present, if you will kindly let them

remand you till it's seen whether Tarling recovers "

All right. Sir. Will they take bail ? "
No — not while his life is in danger."
Come cheer up, my little woman," said Benbow,
turning affectionately to his wife, " or I shall wish
to goodness that kind young lady had never made us
man and wife. There bennet no breakers ahead says
this gen'elman — not one, honour bright."

As soon as Lady Stella could walk to the nearest
cab stand she was on her way to the Police Court,
and though harassed by fear of arriving there too
late, as well as suffering from weakness and headache,
there was one little fountain of joy continually
bubbling up in her soul, which, in spite of all she
had been suffering during the last twelve hours,
n:ade her feel happier at times than she had been

since Wilfrid Dayrell had left England. The sight ot
that precious little bit of paper, which it had cost her
so much to fill up, helped her to realize the fact that
she had done what she could " — had shrunk from
no sacrifices or dangers — to rescue the man whom
she knew she had once wronged, but whom she also
knew she loved with the whole strength of her
soul. And if they were not to meet again on earth,
she could now meet him in another world with a
joy and a peace that she had not dared to hope for
till she became a seamstress in Shadwell, and carried
her cross to the end. Visions, indeed, of the wretched
man who would have done her so great a wrong,
lying in his gore — wounded, perhaps dying, by her
act, would, ever and anon, keep intruding. She
knew that she had fired only at the last moment,
after clear warning, in self-defence, and that, in the
midst of all that terrible excitement she had remembered
to aim only where she was told the
wound would not prove fatal. But though no
vital part might have been touched, did not people
sink sometimes from the after-effects of a wound ?
. . If he were to die from the injury she had
inflicted. . . . No, no — the thought was too
horrible. . . . would she be tried and found
guilty of murder ? . . . Infinite depths of horror,
when she woke that morning and often since, seemed
opening before her. .

But as she neared the police court where she
would meet Mr. Ellerslie, more hopeful thoughts

again prevailed. She was perfectly sure she was
justified in trying to persuade the cruel mate to
give up what he never had had a right to appropriate,
or at all events to persuade him to let her
copy from it what might save a wronged and
innocent man from a terrible fate. If Tarling chose
to insist on conditions for her obtaining it which
were worse than death, and then behaved in a
manner which compelled her to use the only means
in her power for self-defence — that, she felt sure,
was not a crime on her part in the eye of Heaven,
whatever it might be by the law of man. But
suppose that, after all, Benbow found she had not
copied what was needful ! . . . . Yet she
could not have made any mistake. And would not
the log itself now be recoverable ?

So in comparative calmness and peace, " the
daughter of a hundred earls" prepared to go forth
in her humble garb to give herself up to justice asa
criminal, before a London stipendiary in a police
court.

She was met at the door by tearful Mrs. Benbow,
and told she must on no account be seen inside
that Benbow was in no danger, and that Mr.
Ellerslie would soon come out, and join her at a
comfortable neighbouring inn where he had sent
to engage a private room and ordered luncheon.
Stella had made another copy of the entry in the
log, and locked it safely away in her little writing-desk,
bringing the original copy with her for Ben-bow's

inspection. When his wife handed it to Mr.
EUerslie for her husband to see, the honest fellow's
face lighted up with immense satisfaction. He
nodded, smiling, and returned it to his counsel,
whispering :

That's the ticket. Well done, dressmaker ! Now,
sir, we're all as right as a trivet."

"When that gentleman glanced at it and placed it
in his pocket-book, he noticed with momentary pain
that the delicate handwriting, usually so firm and
clear, looked like that of an aged woman through
tremulousness. " But no wonder," he said to himself;
and when he joined her and Mrs. Benbow at
the hotel, his heart was at first too full of admiration
and pity to allow of more than a word of
greeting. This, however, was an extraordinary state
in which to find himself, and he felt surprised accordingly.
After luncheon he took Stella aside and
said :

'' You needn't go, must not go back. Lady Stella,
to those lodgings of yours. Mrs. BenboT, I'm sure,
will kindly bring up all your belongings to my
chambers. You must go to my house and let my
wife nurse you, for I'm sure you want good nursing
and good doctoring, too. But take care you don't
tell a soul where you are going."

So it was all arranged, and Mrs. Benbow was
told that Miss Pye was going to be taken to a
private friend's to be nursed, and that all " her
traps," as well as any communications, were to be

sent to the lawyer's chambers in Lincoln's Inn. The
fact was, EUerslie wished not only to give Lady
Stella the quiet and nursing she evidently needed,
and of course to get her away, from all the painful
associations and hard living of her lodgings, now that
there was no longer any occasion to remain there,
but also to throw the police off the scent, if they
should happen to hit upon any clue connecting the
young dressmaker, Miss Pye, with the pistolling by
the river side. The immediate difficulty was curious,
viz., how to remove the stain of walnut-juice from
her face and hands before she came back among
those who would recognize her. But money will
do most things of a material nature ; and before
Stella left the inn, she had nearly regained her beautiful
complexion — not entirely, first because it is a
work requiring time for its completion, and also because,
as EUerslie remarked, " some amount of tanning
would help to keep up the delusion that she
had been travelling in foreign parts."

All that money, also, could do to soften the
rigour of Benbow's detention on remand, and his
wife's anxious pining in her now solitary home, was
done ; and the latter was always made welcome in
Eccleston Square by ^hs. EUerslie both in her own
boudoir or in the servants' hall, when it was found
that she could be relied on not to gossip and tattle.

When Stella first arrived there, she was too ill
for anything but immediate bed. And as she lay
that night in Mrs. Ellerslie's elegant guest-chamber.

surrounded by every comfort and luxury that wealth
could give, and by that greatest luxury of all, which
no money can purchase, warm and true affection,
the contrast between her condition then and the
last night of her sojourn at the East End, was
considerable. If she could but have felt sure
that the wounded man would recover, her peace
and joy would have been supreme. But Fred, of
course, had told her that Benbow had certified her
copy of the log-book to be all he wanted in order
to discover Mr. Dayrell's abode, and that he (Ben-bow)
was at least half as happy as herself at the
prospect, which is saying a good deal. So that when
her kind hostess came to bid her good-night, and,
stooping tenderly down to kiss her, asked if there
was anything more they could do for her, saying she
feared she was in a good deal of pain, Stella whispered
:

'' Oh, no ; I am ^■ery happy. I have all, and more;
than I deserve. And do you know, dearest, it is very
sweet to suffer pain for those we love. I remember
when a distant relative of yours was once trying to
raise my sluggish soul to nobler thoughts, he said
something to that effect, and added that if we begin
by feeling this for dear earthly friends, we shall certainly
go on to find it true when suffering for God.
So having begun, though in a very lame fashion, I
hope I may go on. . . . And that might be reward
enough, for saint or sinner, might it not ? Yet
I have more even now. What happiness," she murmured,

"for instance, you are giving me, Nellie,
even at this very hour ! I suppose all this is something
like what one would feel on reaching heaven
after being burnt alive. . . . Only there is fortunately
. . . but little chance — as perhaps there
might be in heaven — of meeting here . . . that
mad young missionary."

"Not just yet, dear*' replied Mrs. Ellerslie. "You
mustn't talk any more ; but perhaps some good angels
will bring him in before very long. Only do shut
those big bright eyes and go to sleep."

Stella pressed her friend's hand, and managed to
say before she dropped off:

In the meantime, dear Ellen, it will not be very
difficult to make-believe you are the angel."

Ellerslie had gone down to the London hospital
after bringing home Lady Stella, but had not been
able to obtain from the house-surgeon a very favourable
account of the patient. He had been too much
in the habit of drinking generally, and on that
night in particular, for the surgeon to give much
hope of ultimate recovery. Still there was one point
greatly in his favour. " He must have been so close
to the revolver when it was fired," the surgeon remarked,
" that the bullet has not lodged in his
body. It has gone clean through the top of his right
lung and the upper portion of the scapula, but without
touching any vital part. It was a fine shot, in fact,
you see, sir, for a merciful duellist."

"Well aimed," thought Ellerslie."

For some days the man's fate trembled in the
balance, and from hour to hour he seemed likely to
give his doctor the slip. Hence the magistrate went
to the hospital to have his deposition taken down, but,
as Ellerslie duly reported to Lady Stella, that stern
official found to his surprise that the wounded man
man absolutely refused to utter anything except
Nasty cat," and would give no other clue as to the
person who had shot him. The police were hereupon
confirmed in some suspicions they had begun
to entertain that a woman was concerned in the
business, for they had ascertained that Tailing had
been " keeping company " with a young dressmaker
named Michael Pye, who was also believed
to have been walking out with him on the night in
question. The constable whom she had implored
to run to the rescue, had, of course, been trying
to find out this Miss Pye, and suspicion deepened
when it was discovered that she had suddenly left
her lodgings the day after the affray. Her landlady
and Mrs. Benbow were sharply cross-questioned
as to what had become of the girl; but all that
Mrs. Benbow could, or rather would, say was that Miss
Pye had gone away in a cab and told her she was
going to a friend's house for nursing and a change of
air, but she affirmed truly enough, she had not a
notion where the friend's house was ; while the landlady
only knew that Miss Pye had gone away the morning
after the row, and had never returned, and she
knew no more than the dead where she was now.

But what about her luggage ? Had she — the
landlady — got it, or had she sent it away ? "

She hadn't got it, and she hadn't sent it away.
A man corned for it with a spring cart, like a laundress'
cart, with an order for its delivery," which
she couldn't read, but her neighbour did, and as he
brought the money due for rent and a week in
advance and a trifle over, she "let the things go,
and hoped there would be no harm in that." After
this a couple of detectives were busy for some days
tracking out the supposed young feminine miscreant
who, happily, was all the time resting securely, as
Lady Stella, in her friend's West-end mansion, far
removed from any risk of detectives lighting on
her trail.

But the suspense was very trying. All the more
because she was now, of course, intensely desirous
of despatching Benbow on a voyage of discovery to
the South Seas at the earliest possible moment.

By this time, however, the Home Secretary had
agreed to take up the matter ; and the Police
Magistrate having committed Benbow for trial and
refused bail, there was nothing to be done but to
wait patiently, or otherwise, till it became known
whether he would have to be tried on the capital
charge, or only for " intent to do grievous bodily
harm."

'' And how long," inquired Stella of her ,
'will it be before his trial will come
on after that question is decided ? "

VOL. III. 45

One, two, or even three months, according to
circumstances — probably," replied Ellerslie, " though
by good fortune it might be much earlier. But do
you know. Lady Stella, I think you had much
better not ask any more questions or talk at all
about the matter till there's something to be done.
You look a great deal too pale and anxious. Can't
you take a run down to Hurstleigh Manor for a
few weeks ? I promise to telegraph the moment
there's any news. You have done all you can for
Mr. and Mrs. Benbow. My wife, I am sure, would
be delighted to keep you company and the Dayrells at
the Priory would sing songs of joy to behold you. Mrs.
Dayrell has been told enough to make her regard you
with adoration — the Miss Dayrells will contend as to
which shall have the honour of untying your shoestrings
— and probably many of the tribe of Hodge
on your estate will unharness your horses and substitute
their own athletic limbs. I have been doing
my little best to carry out your ladyship's benevolent
schemes for their benefit, not altogether without
success."

"You have been very, very good to me — true and
loyal knight, Fred Ellerslie," was a reply which
amply repaid him, as he calmly informed his wife
that evening.

So poor Lady Stella went — not without misgivings ;
for though the sweet fresh country sights and
sounds and air were very refreshing, and especially
the meeting of his friends and relations, and the

gratitude of the labourers, there were too many sacred
associations and memories connected with the dear
old home and neighbourhood, with too many anxious
prospects looming in the distance to leave her soul
in much peace, even if there had not been the one
terrible anxiety gnawing at her secret heart as to
the recovery of the wounded man. Ellerslie had
tried to make her feel, as well as understand, that
no English judge or jury would either convict Ben-bow
merely on the evidence at present possessed by
the police, or return any other verdict against herself
than that of " Justifiable Homicide " if the man
died, or of " wounding with intent, &c.," if she had
to go into the dock herself. She did fully understand
and believe what he told her, but if the man
were to die, she felt at times as if she should thenceforth,
go wandering about forlorn, like Lady Macbeth,
striving in vain, amid " multitudinous seas,"
to wash the stain of blood from her little hand.
But the seed she had been sowing, with Fred
Ellerslie's help, down at the Manor, now in her
time of trouble brought her a harvest of great comfort
and relief. The new cottages that had" been
built both on her own and Mrs. Dayrell's estate,
the Home Arts and Village Industries that had been
introduced among the labourers' wives and families,
and the sight of more than one well-lighted, well-ventilated
factory, where fair wages were being
earned — the new Concert and Lecture Hall — the
capital Village Store and Club — the new allotment

45—2

grounds and proprietary cows, which had been replenishing
the villagers, body and mind, with health
and happiness, now filled the soul of Lady Silver-star,
or Lady Bountiful (as she was then generally
termed), with the purest delight — all the deeper
from reflecting how much the improved order of
things was owing to the beloved one " far away."

Before long she returned to London, and again
found a little peace and comfort in traversing the
various docks, sometimes in company with Mr. or
Mrs. EUerslie under the escort of an eminent
ship broker's clerk, in search of a suitable vessel
to dispatch to the South Pacific as soon as Ben-bow
was released. Nothing, however, that either
she or the clerk discovered seemed to meet her
fancy ; and it was a bright day when EUerslie brought
her an advertisement offering for sale a schooner
yacht with steam screw, 300 tons, late belonging to
the Royal Yacht Squadron, winner of sundry cups
and matches, superlatively fast, graceful, &c., and
now lying at the More. It was a great treat to her
friends to see Lady Stella's eyes flush with delight
as the barrister informed his wife, when she read
this piece of information, and to witness her happiness
as with Mr. and Mrs. EUerslie, she went down
in the Margate steamer, on a fine bright day, to
inspect the lovely craft.

'' I declare that Proserpine has not looked so happy,"
remarked sympathetic Mrs. EUerslie to her husband,
since she came from the realms of Pluto ! " (the title

by which the East-end was now usually known in the
family circle).

That might easily be," responded the gentleman
addressed, "for as far as I know she has never once
looked happy at all."

Ah, I have been more fortunate in my intercourse
with her," returned the lady.

How could she help smiling when looking at you,
dear?" was the husband's gallant, though equivocal
reply.

The yacht was pronounced to be pre-eminently
charming. The party from the West End spent a
couple of delightful hours on board, and during half
the time Stella sat on the quarter-deck looking
out to sea over the great green, curling, glinting
waves, with the fresh sea breeze fanning her pale
cheeks, and lost in blissful visions. She seemed to
behold the swift and beautiful fabric (so like a
living creature, with her taper masts and yards and
snow-white wings) careering across the deep-blue
waters of the glorious Southern Seas, rescuing one
beloved being from his solitary duress in that
island-prison home, and then bearing rich blessings,
moral, material, spiritual, to the lovely islands that
stud the realms of Polynesia.

The next morning Ellerslie appeared at Lady
Stella's breakfast table, where Mrs. Dayrell and her
unmarried daughter were now seated, with a face
that clearly betokened good tidings of some sort.
He had not to wait long before she gave him a

private opportunity of informing her that Tarling
had just been pronounced out of danger, and that
he was going to discover how soon Benbow would
have to appear at the Central Criminal Court.
When he returned, his first exclamation was :
"Well, the rascal, I find, has grace enough to
persist in his refusal to appear against Benbow, but
whether he means to be equally merciful towards
you, I can't say. He is certainly not actuated
by very benevolent sentiments regarding Miss Pye,
for he relieves his feelings by firing off his accustomed
ejaculation of ' Nasty cat ! ' at ten-minute
intervals. This, in fact, appears to be almost the
only sentiment he is capable of entertaining or expressing,
except an unavailing petition for ' a small go
of rum and water.' But you know how anxious he was
to go to sea again ; and I shouldn't be surprised if he
fears that when cross-examined in the witness-box,
such ugly things might come out with regard to
his past doings, especially as to how he got
possession of that blooming log-book, as Benbow
always denominates it, and then perhaps as to his
share in the mutiny and death of the captain of the
Southern Queen,' that the disclosures might
interfere with his attaining the height of his
ambition, viz., the mastership of a fine little brig
or barque — or even terminate in twelve months'
incarceration, and prevent his ever daring to apply
for a first mate's berth and certificate again. I
shall certainly help him to that apprehension

as soon as he's convalescent. And then when he
gets his £500 he can creep quietly away, buy a
share in some ocean-going clipper at Liverpool,
begin life again under a new name, and we'll hope
with views regarding the respect due to the fair
sex considerably improved by recent tribulation."

But," asked Stella, " will they not compel him
to appear as a witness ? You once said something
about his being bound over."

Oh, when I take him a little money, I think
he'll manage to be beforehand with the Bobbies,
and cut and run before they can bind him."

When Ellerslie explained his ideas in a very low
voice to the prisoner in the Newgate cell, jNIr.
Benbow cheerfully replied :

Ah, Mr. Ellerslie, Bob Tarling 'full be as thankful
to get afloat again as a Newfoundland dog is to
launch himself on a duck pond in the dog-days.
He's a first-rate seaman and no mistake, and I
suppose. Sir, we all of us like doing what we can do
well."

"Eight you are, Mr. Benbow," replied the barrister,
with a lively recollection of his own delight
in public spouting. " As you observed, a Newfoundland
dog enjoys the water, and many a man has
been unjustly accused of vanity for putting himself
forward in various walks of life, when he was only
a Newfoundland dog, wanting to swim." (He was
going to put up for a certain borough at the next
election.)

Whether the sailor fully grasped the lawyer's
meaning is doubtful ; but, as the latter assured Lady
Stella, he evidently thought it was " grand fun to
think of old Tarling going afloat again like a Newfoundland
dog on a hot day." Whereupon Ellerslie
added :

"I will say this, too, for the rascal — Master Bob
has decidedly benefitted by his chastisement and
compulsory residence in the * Accident Ward ' of
the London Hospital, for he has quite made up his
mind not to give false evidence against you, or a true
bill against anybody else. Besides, as I said, he's
longing tremendously to get to sea again, and would
be only too glad to slip his cable, and scud away
from London. Once off, it would require a sharper
lot than detectives generally appear to be, to detect
the sallow, black-bearded, seedy dock labourer in a
spruce, trim nautical hero with a delicate rouge-imparted
flush on his manly cheek, and with brown
whiskers, beard, and moustache to match, neatly
got up by the nautical costumier to the Delphi.
Never fear. He'll be safe down at Liverpool, or
leagues out to sea, before the excellent Encompasses
from his cell to the dock at the Old Bailey,
and from the dock to * dulce domus ' and ' places
uxor ' in fragrant Shadwell bowers of blissful
memory."

So the eventful day came at last, and Ellerslie
drove up in a hansom cab to the door of a
humble lodging in Camden Town between 9 and

10 o'clock that morning. About half-an-hour previously
Lady Stella had been taking Mrs. and Miss
Dayrell in her carriage to the London and Northwestern
station, whence those ladies were to proceed
homewards. Orders had been sent a day or two
before to Hurstleigh Manor to make ready for its
young mistress ; and when she parted from her
friends at the door of their railway carriage, they
shared her expectation that she was about to follow
by a little later train, after calling, as she explained,
on a poor friend who was in trouble of some description.
Lady Stella then saw her luggage safely
deposited in the " Left Luggage " office, received
her ticket, dismissed her footman and carriage, and
repaired soon after on foot to the lodging abovementioned.
For relying on Ellerslie's confident
assertion that in the course of three or four hours
at the latest, Benbow would be acquitted, she had
no doubt of being at liberty to run down for a few
days to Hurstleigh, while Benbow went to inspect
the yacht and make all needful preparations for the
voyage.

Accordingly at the said lodgings, Stella had
arranged, for a suitable pecuniary consideration, to
be allowed to change her dress, and once more go
masquerading as Eachel Pye, the dressmaker.

You see this will be necessary, my dear Lady
Stella," Ellerslie had explained previously, "if you
are really resolved, as I confess I know you ought
to be, to take Benbow's place in the dock, should the

judge's summing up, by any miserable chance, be
against him. For in a case of this sort I know the
jury are pretty sure to detect his bias and to follow
suit."

So together they went in the cab, EUerslie and the
young dressmaker, to the Old Bailey on that fateful
morning — the latter sighing a rather dreary wish that
all these concealments and disguises were over and
done with.

One disguise, however, had been voted unnecessary.
Poor Miss Pye bore only too evident traces of recent
illness to make it needful to account for the change
in her complexion or to render artificial dyes again
necessary. At the entrance to the Court they met
Mrs. Benbow watching with suppressed and tearful
emotion for their arrival. Stella poured all the balm
of consolation in her power into the good woman's
heart and taking her arm led her to the place
EUerslie indicated. Seated just behind her legal
friend, so that he could communicate with her immediately
if he wished, Stella now listened with intense
curiosity and a beating heart to the pleadings
in support of the prosecution by the Counsel for
the Crown. She was not a little comforted and
strengthened by noting the calm manly bearing of
the prisoner, and she mentally vowed she would be
worthy of all that this man had done and borne so
bravely for her sake, and for that of one dear indeed to
him — infinitely dearer to herself. Then too came
strengthening thoughts of that beloved one for whom

she felt any suffering that brought a blessing to him
would be welcome. And over-arching all her thoughts
and feelings like the blue heavens, as she sat hour
after hour in court that day, were glorious up-lifting
visions, comparatively new to her soul, of the Infinite
Fatherly Love that would surely make all things, even
the most seemingly disastrous, " work together for good."

The evidence of the river police — of the constable
on duty to whom a frightened girl, believed to be
Eachel Pye, dressmaker, had appealed for succour —
of the house surgeon at the London Hospital — of two
women who had seen Miss Pye, as they believed,
walking on the night in question in company with the
labouring man, Tarling — was all in turn brought
forward, and the witnesses acutely cross-examined by
the counsel for the prisoner.

But where is the man himself, Tarling ? " inquired
the Recorder with some austerity. " Why don't you
put him in the witness-box ? "

'she declared, your Honour, as I think counsel
for the Crown in his able address admitted," replied
gillespie, " that the man Tarling had no charge to
bring against the prisoner. See the depositions ; and
now, I understand, he has absconded. Clearly there
is no case against my client."

Ellerslie then analysed the evidence, showed that
the Good Samaritan himself might have been convicted,
on such evidence as that, of wounding and
robbing the poor traveller from Jerusalem to Jericho
whom he had stopped to rescue and save — especially

if he had been caught in the act of hurrying off for a
doctor ; and wound up an eloquent appeal to the jury
which made both Benbow and Lady Stella look up to
him with lively emotions of admiration as well as
gratitude. Everybody in court, including the Recorder
and jury, at that moment probably considered the
case for the prosecution as having entirely failed. A
dead silence followed. The Counsel for the Crown
was about to rise, doubtless with a consciousness that
there was nothing left for him to say, when a police
sergeant hurriedly handed him a note, which the
barrister asked permission to read aloud.

"Your Honour," he said, "it appears that a very
important missing link in the evidence against the
prisoner has just been discovered, and just in time.
You may remember that we could give no account
of the pistol which was found on the spot where the
bloody deed was perpetrated. Up to this moment
there was nothing to show who was the owner of
that cruel and nearly fatal weapon. If you will now
permit the prisoner to leave the dock for a few minutes
that he may be identified by being singled out
from among others by a witness whom I intend
putting in the box at once, I think the real author
of this heinous crime will be made plain to gentlemen
of the jury and yourself, and the guilty criminal
will receive the due reward of his deed."

Oh, what an ungrateful miserable wretch was I
to throw away my trusty protector ! " whispered
Stella to Ellerslie, in great distress.

It was not an act of wisdom, certainly," replied
that gentleman with a grim and bitter smile.

"I was so horrified at what I had done with it,"

said the lady humbly and apologetically, " that "

but Ellerslie whispered " Hush," and she subsided.

Looking up, she saw Benbow being taken from
the dock and led into an adjoining room. There he
found himself placed in a row with five or six other
men variously habited, while a well-dressed tradesman
whom he remembered to have seen somewhere, not
very long ago, soon singled him out, and said to the
accompanying police-sergeant :

'' That's the man."

Benbow was immediately brought back and soon
had his fears confirmed that the case against him
was much stronger than it had been a few minutes
before.

The tradesman appeared in the witness box, and
stated that he was a gunsmith, whereupon counsel
for the Crown then asked if he knew the prisoner ?

I have seen him before," was the reply.

When and where ? "

About a month ago in my shop when I sold him
the pistol just handed to me by the policeman."

A strange kind of tremor seemed to run through
the Court. The Eecorder had leant forward while
the witness spoke, and then threw himself back in
his seat with the air of a man who says to himself,
Ah, that is very serious." The jury were greatly
excited. Ellerslie looked impassive, but was much

disturbed ; and the opposing counsel's eyes gleamed
triumphantly. Lady Stella for a moment felt as if
the floor were sinking under her, but quickly recovered
her self-possession.

How do you know that pistol was sold by you ? '*
asked Ellerslie, cross-examining the witness.

** All our goods have our private mark — and here
it is," replied the gunsmith, placing his finger on
the revolver.

"But how can you be sure the prisoner was the
man to whom you sold that particular pistol ? Remember,
Sir, you are on your oath, and the liberty of
a fellow-creature for years may be trembling on your
reply."

I am quite certain the prisoner was the man, for
I have just picked him out from among several other
men, and I remember his saying to me as he took
up the revolver — * These little devils may be put
to a good use or a bad 'un, eh, master ? ' His saying
that made me take particular notice of him. He was
a sea-faring man, and it set me thinking when and
where he might be going to use the pistol."

After this there was little doubt as to which way
the verdict would go, though Ellerslie made a powerful
appeal to the jury to remember that even if
Benbow had bought the pistol, there was no proof
that he had fired it on the night in question. True,
he was found near the fatal spot, but there were other
persons not far off also. Now had not Eachel Pye
been sitting just behind him, he would probably have

tried to lead the jury to fix the guilt on her, confident
that she could never be identified with the Lady
Stella Faulconhurst. But besides a pretty strong conviction
that the attempt would be useless, the unprofessional
part of his mind revolted against taking
that course. At any moment a policeman might
suspect or recognize the closely-veiled young woman
sitting there, to be the missing dressmaker; and
when he sat down he felt he had made a regular
failure, which, however, the necessities of the case had
caused to be inevitable.

The summing-up by the Recorder was done with
great impartiality and remarkable acumen, but the
practised eye of Ellerslie as he anxiously and continually
scanned the faces of the jury, told him only too
surely that they saw as plainly as he did that the
learned Recorder was convinced of the guilt of the
prisoner. Mrs. Benbow grasped Lady Stella's arm
tightly, and looked up with a wild fierce expression
in her face. There was clearly no time to be lost.
So Stella was just leaning forward to tell Ellerslie she
wished to be examined when, shortly before the close
of the summing-up, that gentleman turned and
whispered to her:

If you mean to save Benbow from five years' penal
servitude, you must go, now, into the witness-box."

She pressed his hand and in a firm voice, with a
look full of resolute purpose, thanked him for his
faithfulness, and rose at once from her seat.

Within five minutes, by leave of the Recorder, she

was in the box, facing him, the jury, and the crowded
court, with an unfaltering gaze. But her heart beat
fast, and a deep flush overspread her features.

Your Honour," said Ellerslie, an unexpected turn
in regard to the evidence against my client has taken
place. A more surprising change has, it seems, now
to take place in his favour." Then addressing the
witness when she had been sworn, he said :

Eachel Pye, I believe. You have been a dressmaker,
lately residing in Shadwell." The witness
assented. " You were acquainted with one Robert
Tarling, a dock-labourer ? " (assent). '' You were out
walking with him on the night of the 8th of October
last when he was wounded by a shot from a pistol ? "
(assent). "Do you know who fired that pistol?"

"I fired it myself" (great sensation).

How did you obtain possession of it ? "

*^I asked a neighbour, the husband of a friend of
mine, that man in the dock, to buy it for me, and
gave him the money."

Poor Benbow's open countenance exhibited a strange
appearance of conflicting emotions, in which distress,
and an involuntary sense of relief, seemed actively
struggling together.

*shad you any motive that would justify such an
act ? " continued his counsel.

I had."

May I ask what it was ? "

The strongest that a woman could have " (sensation
again).

Did the prisoner ever borrow that pistol from you
after you received it from him ? "

Never. No one ever touched it but myself after
I got it until I fired and flung it away on the night
in question."

Your Honour," said Ellerslie, " I submit that the
case against the prisoner has broken down."

The Counsel for the Crown concurred — the jury,
without leaving, at once returned a verdict of "Not
guilty," and the court rose.

Ellerslie hurried Lady Stella into one of the passages
leading out of the building and with an agitation
wholly unusual to him, asked her if she would get
into a cab with him and drive at once to Euston
Station. "There," he said, "we could dismiss the
cab, take tickets to Rugby, tear them to bits, and
soon after walk to the lodgings where you left your
proper habiliments. We shall then be safe from,
pursuit."

But Lady Stella did not seem inclined thus furtively
to escape. The very completeness of her friend's stratagems
repelled her. She was sick of stratagems.

What is the danger ? " she asked.

This — that in five minutes if you don't flee, you'll
be arrested. The Eecorder cannot avoid issuing his
warrant for your apprehension. You will be taken to
Bow Street, examined and committed for trial. Bail
may possibly be refused and you may have to lie
three months in prison before you are tried — and

then "

VOL. III. 46

"Well, what then?" asked Stella. "Will they
take no account of the provocation ? "

Yes, — but they will also take account of the fact
that you had deliberately provided yourself with a
murderous weapon — and when you, or I, plead that
you had the strongest possible reason for shooting the
villain, the prosecutor may tell the jury that that
reason may have been jealousy or revenge — a verdict
of guilty may follow, and — well, things often look very
different when a trial is going on to what they did
outside."

The sentence ? " asked Lady Stella.

Eighteen months or two years' imprisonment at
least — to mark the repugnance of the Bench to
premeditated assault by fire-arms. Had you stabbed
the fellow to the heart with a pair of scissors which
you had in your pocket, you would have been inconsiderably
less danger."

But I know I have done nothing wrong, of which
to be ashamed," replied Stella. " I can't bear the
thought of skulking away like a hunted thief. I must
face the whole consequences of what I did — and which
I would do again in the same circumstances."

It is too late, at all events, now, to do anything
else," groaned Ellerslie, as an Inspector of police came
up and showed the Eecorder's warrant for Eachel Pye's
arrest on a charge of " grievously wounding with
intent, &c." " But oh, the pity of it, the pity of it ! "
added Ellerslie, in a changed and hollow voice.

Lady Stella, as the Shadwell dressmaker, was taken

to Bow Street, and committed for trial, and bail was
refused.

But before she and Ellerslie left the Old Bailey she
had the great happiness of seeing Benbow and his
wife hurrying up to meet her, not knowing of the
arrest — the little woman, full of smiles and gratitude
and happiness, and her husband in that " mixed "
condition before described, but in which joy and
gratitude certainly and greatly predominated. Lady
Stella stooped and said softly to Mrs. Benbow :

You won't mind going out with your husband in
my yacht round the world, now that he's proved to be
so faithful, and certified as ' not dangerous ' — will

you?"

Benbow, not hearing what the lady said, whispered
to her :

"Now when will your ladyship give me sailing
orders for the South Seas ? I suppose you'll come
too."

But he was answered by a strange look of mingled
amusement and regret, the latter half of which
he understood too well, when he beheld her walking
off with the Inspector, as Ellerslie lingered a moment
to explain the facts. Then his own and his wife's joy
were turned into mourning, and they went home
sorrowful and more " mixed " than ever.

46—2

As Lady Stella entered her bare white-washed cell
that evening, and the key was turned upon her, she
said to herself, "All right. Only one more brief
chapter of trouble . for his sake." And as
she lay down on the hard, narrow little bed, her last
thoughts were, " Dear Lord, I thank Thee. . , .
Wilfrid, wilt thou forgive me now ? "

Stella had not to wait more than a month, and when
it was over she told the good Dr. Elvers, who had
brought her such infinite blessings in recent days, and
who, being admitted to the secret, came to see her more
than once, that on the whole she thought that period
of waiting had been the most profitable in her whole
life. But when the trial came on she found her nerves
had suffered a little from want of fresh air and
exercise, coming as this enforced confinement did, close
upon all her previous troubles. Hence she had great
difficulty in bearing up resolutely while she sat as a
prisoner in the dock (a chair being permitted to herat
the doctor's request), hearing the prosecutor for the
Crown marshall all the facts against her, and dwell
especially on her having bought a pistol weeks beforehand,
and armed herself with it when going out to
walk with her lover. But if Ellerslie had pleaded well

for Benbow he electrified the court with the fervour
and power of his appeal on behalf of poor Rachel Pye.
There was not a dry eye among the women in court
when he sat do^vn — the jury were visibly impressed
and affected — even the Recorder, though apparently
unmoved, listened with unusual interest. The police
and Benbow of course had to give damaging evidence
in some respects, but the latter, under cross-examination
by EUerslie, produced a great effect when
describing the necessity under which the dressmaker
lay for obtaining a copy from the ship's " log " which
her rascally lover had somehow got hold of, and the
fear with which his rough conduct and bad character
for his treatment of women had inspired her. He
managed to convey to the jury, also, in one or two
sentences, some notion of Tarling's former behaviour in
this last respect, for which the villain ought to have
been brought to penal servitude, before he was stopped
by the Council for the Crown objecting. But of
course he described Tarling's conduct on the eventful
night by the river-side, the supper prepared at the
beer-shop, &c. Miss Pye's landlady backed up this
evidence — while ]Mr?. Benbow, who was agitated
almost to hysterics, and was restored to self-possession
by a smart slap on the back from her
husband, when once in the witness box, clearly and
impressively confirmed from her own private knowledge
all that he, Benbow, had said as to Tarling's character
and misdeeds. She corroborated her husband's evidence
as to Miss Pye's apprehensions, and was quite

sure that young woman had never given Tarling any
encouragement ; while she confessed that, in her own
secret heart, she believed that the prisoner's affections
had previously been bestowed in various other quarters.

The Eecorder, in his charge, gave considerable
weight to all this evidence, and dwelt on the extent to
which it removed the serious complexion of the facts
of the prisoner's having purchased and armed herself
with the deadly weapon. The hospital house-surgeon
proved that the shot had apparently been aimed inexact
conformity with the advice which the witness
Benbow had stated he had given the prisoner in reply
to her anxiety to avoid inflicting a mortal wound. It
was clear, remarked the learned judge, that the
prisoner did not mean or attempt homicide, but
intended only to disable her assailant and so defend
herself from his violence. It was, however, a very
serious question for the jury to determine whether in
their opinion, she was justified in the means she
adopted for so doing. Then the jury retired. Half-an-hour
of harrowing suspense followed ; but just as
Stella was doubting if she could bear it much longer
without fainting, they re-entered the box. " Guilty
or not guilty ? " was asked, amid a silence that could
be felt.

Guilty," replied the foreman, " of justifiable
wounding in self-defence."

That is an acquittal," responded the Eecorder, ina
business-like but cheerful! style, intimating that, on
the whole, he agreed with the verdict, which words

were greeted with a burst of applause as suddenly
uttered as it was promptly suppressed.

We must wait a few minutes, Miss Pye," said
Ellerslie to Lady Stella, " if you wish to avoid a
public ovation in the Old Bailey," whereupon that
young lady plunged at once into a pleasant conversation
with happy, smiling Mr. and Mrs. Benbow.
She privately arranged with the former that he should
bring his wife the next day to Lady Stella's house,
when the dear little woman was for the first time
to learn privately who her dressmaking friend in
reality was, and when, as Stella remarked with a
curious nonchalance they could make all the arrangements
for a little sea-voyage, including the
appointment of Mrs. Benbow to be Stella's lady's
maid on board the ship.

Your ladyship's yacht is looking lovely," said
the gallant tar, enthusiastically, " and could go to
sea in twenty-four hours any day."

Not long after, leaning on Ellerslie's arm, Stella
left the precincts of the Old Bailey, amid the applauding
shouts of a few lingering admirers, and they
were rapidly conveyed in a hansom cab to the Camden
Town lodgings. From this haven of refuge
Stella, having presented to her obliging landlady
Miss Pye's habiliments, emerged in her true colours,
with an ineffable sense of relief and gratitude at not
having to practise any more concealments, and perhaps
with some other superadded sensations of bliss.

I can never sufficiently thank you, Mr. Ellerslie,"

said Lady Stella, as they were parting outside the
lodgings, for that gentleman had to return to the
Old Bailey when he had discharged his duty to her
*' No," she said, " I cannot — not now ; but I know

you will never doubt " then, somehow, she could

get no further for a half a minute ; but presently,
turnips to him with a cheerful smile as she shook
his hand, she said with some effort : " You have
a fine career before you, Fred Ellerslie, in that musty
old court, I am quite sure. But you will be in Parliament
and Attorney-general, long before I am Prime
Minister, or I should offer to help you to that position."

Whereupon the rising barrister observed, in his
kindly, quiet way : " My dear lady, you had better
wait till you can thank our Wilfrid Dayrell for anything
I have done ; I should never have cared for anybody
but Number One, had it not been for him " —
a remark that hardly tended to restore Lady Stella's
composure.

On reaching her home, in which a telegram to the
housekeeper had prepared for her reception (a little
to the astonishment of her servants, who thought
she was gone abroad). Lady Stella went straight to
her own room, where an expression of the rest of
her gratitude may, as story-books say, be better
imagined than described.

There was a deal of excitement, and floods of
tittle-tattle, as Benbow informed Mr. Ellerslie, in
Shadwell and the adjoining districts when the events
now recorded became known there. Benbow himself,

as well as his wife, received much commiseration,
while Miss Pye came in for much sympathy
and some very bitter judgments. But like many
other even more important events, it was only a nine-days'
wonder, which would soon have been entirely forgotten
but for the " Girls' Home," in which Eachel
Pye's name and memory were long affectionately
cherished, until a few years later they learned to
substitute that of " Lady Stella Faulconhurst." In
the former character Stella paid one visit after the
trial, very privately, to Mrs. , the Lady Superintendent
of the co-operative dressmakers, who was
much pleased to see her, and to notice that she had
lost none of the refinement and reticence which
struck her on their first acquaintance. She attributed
Eachel's superior tone of manners and character
to having been much in the society of ladies, probably
as " lady's maid," but naturally had trembled for
her when the girl left her sheltering wing to live
alone in lodgings.

After the first interchange of greetings and talk

about the trial, &c., was over, Mrs. , having

said something about her former fears, continued
thus :

*' But I must say. Miss Pye, I am continually
meeting with proofs that your influence, even for
the short time you were living in Shadwell, was very
useful. I can assure you that you were loved as well
as respected by most of my girls and their acquaintances."


I am very thankful to hear this," said Stella,
humbly.

I won't say," added Mrs. , " but what some

of them found your tongue a little sharp now and
then; but it was only sharp on their follies. Ah,
well, it only shows for the thousand and first time
what a deal of good may be done by persons who
have been blessed with greater advantages, coming
to live among those who have had fewer privileges,
provided they come in the spirit of Him who washed
his poor disciples' feet. It was very good of you,
Miss Pye, to get the money to start that ' Girls*
Home,' but still more to come and live among them
here and learn what their temptations and trials
are."

'' Oh, my dear Mrs. ! " exclaimed Stella, " if

it was good of me to come for a few months, what
is it not of you to spend your whole life among
them ? "

Mrs. and Miss Dayrell were speedily summoned to
London to unite in congratulations and rejoicing on
the discovery of the missing log-book, which the
newspapers had already told them had been recovered
by a young dressmaker with whom Tarling was
keeping company, and who had been won over by
Stella. It was not thought necessary or desirable to
enlighten her friends at present any further as to how
she had obtained possession of a copy from the said
'• log " of the " Southern Queen ; " and their happiness
in learning that it had been obtained, and that she

was going herself in her new purchase to explore the
locality indicated by that entry, "was quite sufficient,"
as Stella remarked, '* without weakly ministering
to frivolous curiosity." Ellerslie had succeeded,
through the ship-brokers to the " Southern Queen,"
in obtaining the services, as captain for the yacht, of
a Captain Head, a remarkably pleasant, gentlemanly
man, who possessed also the yet more essential qualities
of great experience, especially in the South Seas, and
a character for first-rate seamanship ; while Stella herself
had made an arrangement with the Secretary of
the London Missionary Society for taking out the wives
of two missionaries to join their husbands, as well as
several packages, which he was very glad to forward free
of charge to some of their stations in the Friendly
Isles. In addition, thereto, sundry boxes were taken
on board, containing all that would be wanted incase,
by any unaccountable caprice, or lured by
the beauty and healthfulness of those islands, she
should resolve to take up her abode there for a
season.

One of Lady Stella's earliest and pleasant est occupations
after her return from the Plutonian depths
to the upper world was to continue that letter to
her lover, begun long before, and in which, while in
dress, she had continued to narrate her adventures
up to that time. She now began with reassured,
yet still trembling hope to believe that she might
ere very long deliver it to him in person. Among
other remarks, she said : —

Extracts from Lady Stella's letter to Wilfrid Dayrell.

I think, dearest, the greatest happiness I have
known since I got the right "latitude and longitude,"
and heard the words, "Not guilty," for getting
it, was a visit yesterday from that admirable
Dr. Eivers. I told you he had visited me more
than once while I was in prison, and now, true
servant of Christ as he certainly is, he came with
his heart full of sympathy, and actually said such
flattering things that though they were immensely
pleasant to hear, I was obliged to tell him it
was more important he should say them to you
than to me, inasmuch as I had already too good an
opinion of myself, while I feared you had rather the
reverse. You can't think what an immense relief it
was to tell the dear man all, and hear what he thought
about it, and speak as if to my own father — nay, with
far more assurance of sympathy than that beloved
old man of late years had been able to manifest. So
after I had made him, as he declared, very happy by
speaking of the infinite blessings his preaching had
brought me, and how it had enabled me to go through
with the task I had set myself for the rescue of a
persecuted saint named Wilfrid Dayrell, he turned tome
with some emotion, and said :

Dear Lady Stella, it is a Christian minister's
greatest joy and reward to believe such a story as you
have now told me, and I don't think I have ever
heard one that gave me more happiness. How little

a poor parson often knows of good that may be done
by his faltering words "

How little anyone knows of the good or the evil
his words may do ! Is it not so, dear Dr. Eivers ? "
I ventured to answer — of course very humbly, and
as the romance writers say, with repressed emotion.
Dr. Eivers looked at me, and said that he now knew
more of my troubles than perhaps he ought to dwell
on. But he presently added :

*^ My dear child, you have found your true Eest.
. . I do not fear now," he added, smiling, " to
see you go sailing away to the ends of the earth.
If thou takes the wings of the morning, and
dwelled in the uttermost parts of the sea, even
there will His hand lead thee, and his right hand
shall hold thee'* But now since you tell me I
have really helped you a little bit on your trying
path, I think I can say what my wife asked me to
mention, and I told her at first I didn't think I
could. . . . May I ask if you will do me a really
great service, though I hope it might not be very
burdensome to you. . . . My eldest son has just
been ordained. He is extremely desirous of going
out, for a time at least, as a missionary to Polynesia.
His health is delicate, and his mother knows it is
the best thing he could do, but she can't bear parting
with him for so long a time. Could you allow
him to sail with you — of course paying his passage
as a cabin passenger ? I think my wife would then
Psalm cxiLxix., 9,

be reconciled to the step — and could better bear the
parting."

To my father confessor's evidently quite infinite
surprise and regret, I — with downcast eyes — answered
softly, " No." Then, looking up to his beautiful face,
and taking his hand, with as much gratitude and
affection as I dared to show in your absence, I added :

You do not think, Dr. Eivers," I answered, " I
could let your son go with me as an ordinary
passenger — couldn't you contrive, now, to let him
come — 0, dear Doctor, I shall be only too glad if he
will come — as my brother. Indeed, I shall feel that
I am only too richly rewarded by his company and
the trust you and his mother repose in me."

Thank you, dear Lady Stella," he exclaimed, " a
thousand times thank you. I know he will have
every care at your hands — and — and " — the dear mischievous
man had got very near the door by this
time — "He is competent now, you know, to perform
the marriage ceremony, if no other clergyman — "
Whereupon I think I caught the good man's hand
as he was escaping (alarmed at his own audacity),
and blushing, I believe, to the tips of my fingers,
kissed it heartily, murmuring :

Grod bless you — dear, dear friend." Oh, Wilfrid,
is he not a darling ? Good-night, dearest. S. F.

There was a grand farewell reunion on board the
beautiful yacht when she was brought up to the
East India Docks, at which not only all the Dayrell

and Ellerslie clans were present, with Dr. Rivers, his
wife, and their fragile, spiritual-looking son, but
Mrs. Grey and Frances also. For these excellent
ladies, when they heard what was going forward, had,
of course, hastened home from the Continent, to join
in the general joy and leave-taking. Fred's serene
satisfaction was a charming sight. Some of the party
noticed that he wore a new and beautiful little cameo
ring of exquisite workmanship, with the word " Salve "
engraved on it ; but only himself, his wife, and " the
Princess " (as Benbow termed her) knew how he came
by it. He said the motto meant 'balm for hurt
minds."

The day was all that could be wished. Benbow,
cheerfully conscious of the dignity of his chief mate's
uniform, and his pretty little wife in new cap and
ribbands, hovered blithely *ein and out and roundabout,"
until he had to take the vice-chair at the
banquet in the saloon, while the smart-looking crew
of picked A.B.'s were piped to their table in the waist
of the ship. A well-trained band discoursed eloquent
music, interspersing various nautical and national airs
with " Green grow the rushes, 01" *' for the benefit
of the unmarried," at Ellerslie's particular desire.

After the banquet was over, and while the gentlemen
were still in the state saloon, and the rest of
the ladies were talking, laughing and singing
together on the quarter-deck ; Lady Stella, her beloved
monkey on her arm (for she had said he must go to
see his poor relations the savages), was sitting with

her ant and Frances in pensive mood near the
beautifully-ornamented stern of the vessel. After a
time the silence was broken by Stella saying :

Then you two dear souls till help Mrs. Fred
Ellerslie and her sister in looking after my ' Girls'
Home ' in Shadwell, and Mr. Ellerslie in his labours
anent the labourers and their kids, as the phrase runs
in the East, at Hurstleigh ? I know now how infinitely
valuable such influences are." Mrs. Grrey
answered with a silent affectionate pressure of the
hand. " Poor things ! " continued Stella. " Indeed
they want all the help we can give them."

I'll do anything in the world for you and them,
Stella," exclaimed Frances, effusively — " except go and
live in the Girls' Home myself — so don't ask me, dear ! "

Ah, well," replied her cousin, " you are both very
good. I only wish every one of those girls were
coming out with me to Polynesia or Australasia.
But I shall come to fetch them before long. Whatever
happens, trust me, dear, for that." She spoke
cheerfully, but the uncertainty as to the result other
quest among the coral isles weighed upon her
spirits now that all the bustle of preparation for the
Rescue " was over, and the parting from friends and
home was at hand. Hence she had been rather silent
and sad, occasionally, during the day, and the recollection
of what she called a foolish dream the night before
would keep stealing now and then into her mind.
It had been so intensely vivid and life-like. She
thought she had landed on a lonely island in the

midst of a sapphire sea, where the shore was fringed
with beautiful feathery palm-trees. But on that
shore she no longer saw her lover, as she often had
before, lifting up a hand of entreaty for succour, but
prostrate on the soft turf, cold in death, partially
covered with palm-branches and flowers. A wooden
cross was at his head, on which were the words
Too late." A friendly savage was gazing on the
body, tears dropping from his eyes. Stella awoke
with tears streaming from her own.

However, that young lady was not accustomed to
allow even substantial evils, much less dreams and
presentiments, to weigh long upon her usually elastic
spirits ; and she felt the duty, now, of cheering up
her aunt and cousin, as well as Mrs. and Miss Dayrell.
She couldn't have effected that object better than by
talking as she did of all the good she ventured to
hope they would be doing both in town and country
while she was gone, and which would so greatly
gladden the heart of their beloved friend when she
told him what they had been doing, and brought him
back safe and sound to old England. Frances had
brightened up considerably at the thought of all she
could accomplish for her cousin, and in looking forward
to her speedy return ; but still more when Stella
made a sly little reference to a captivating friend of
Mr. Ellerslie's, a younger brother of Lord Edendale,
and whispered, " He's a much more agreeable and
hopeful acquaintance, I think, than our excellent and
learned Professor."

VOL. m. 47

Mrs. Grey looked pleased, and said, eyes, very
much so," while Frances blushed becomingly, as she
remarked that the Professor's health did not appear to
have suffered " since the disappearance of our Starry
Venus from the celestial West End spheres. On the
contrary," she added, " When I last saw him it was

at Sir Edward 's, where he was paying devoted

court to a rich and titled widow. . . . "

Ah," replied Stella, " let us inter his memory with
decent rites of sepulture. I shall always be grateful
for his attentions in former days. While we wish
him arid the widow much joy in their mutual
admiration, let us do justice to his uses and his
merits. It takes many men and beasts of prey, as
well as a few reptiles, to make a world."

You admit then that he and his brother Agnostics,
or * Ignoramuses ' (which I think some one told you
once was the Latin for Agnostic), have their useful
place and function in the world."

Surely. They throw us back on the great primitive
foundation truths of all faith and religion — set us
searching for those foundations — make us ask ivy we
believe this, that, or t'other. Only think, dear Aunt,
what heaps of people (not of course including you
and Frances) believe all sorts of things just because
you were told it was the correct thing to do. And
then again the Professor is useful as an idol for some
people to worship. Better they should worship what I
think good King Hezekiah called ' Nehushtan ' than
nothing at all — even an idol, or the Agnostic Professor."

** Of course I ought to know my Bible, Stella, and
the Hebrew tongue also. But I don't. What
meaneth ' Xehushtan,' beautiful pedant ? "

Mere vanity and nothingness," replied Stella, a
little wearily.

I remember ! " exclaimed Frances. " It was the
brazen serpent which in the reign of Moses once
healed the poor serpent-bitten Israelites, but having
served that useful purpose was doing only mischief
in Hezekiah's time, and was fit for nothing but to be
broken up and melted down into copper saucepans —
eh ? Wasn't that it ? Well, I don't mind the Agnostics
being melted down into useful articles of domestic
economy, for we are told to minister to our enemy's
wants, and so heap coals of fire on his head. But for
heaven's sake, Stella, don't even hint to anybody else

that Professor has a bit of brass or an atom

of the serpent in his composition ! "

Stella smiled and murmured, "Wisdom and brass
are very good things in their right place. I only wish

but the sentence, as she looked seaward, ended

in a sigh, and Frances fell to admiring the exquisitely
graceful appearance of the rigging of the yacht, with
its long slender yards and lofty tapering masts,
traced against the blue sky, with three or four snow-white
sails left to flap idly in the light breeze.
Suddenly her eye was caught by the long sky-blue
pennon fluttering from the mainmast head, with the
name of the yacht embroidered on it in silver threads.

Oha what a pretty flag ! " she exclaimed, " and

47—2

what a charming name ! Remarkably suitable. I do
believe you bought the yacht on account of its name."
i( Wrong for the first time in your life, dear," replied
Lady Stella. " When Fred and I bought her she was
called ' The Saucy Jane.' But as we agreed that
might be improved on, he proposed she should be
dubbed ' The Ariadne,' because dear old Mr. Dayrell's
beautiful Dionysus loved that enchanting nymph, and
took her up to heaven, placing her amid the stars

Oh, but — " interrupted Frances, with a mischievous,
merry twinkle in her eyes, " he might have
suggested, if he went back to classic tales at all,
that she should be christened the ' Andromeda,'
because in the rriodern adaptation of that immortal
fable, the lovely nymph, instead of being rescued
by Perseus from the rock and the sea-dragon, flies
son white wings, herself, to save her lover from his
Robinson Crusoe island, and to slay all the hostile
dragon-savages. But I must admit you have got a
prettier and more suitable name than either of
those fair ladies bore. Is it painted ? "

"No," replied Stella simply, though inclined to
discharge a gentle sarcasm at her cousin in revenge
for having been made to blush. " No — I worked it
myself, while I was waiting a whole weary month."

Waiting ? — what, for that precious log ? "

"No," again answered Stella, with a wistful smile,
and another look eastward, to the far-off horizon —
"only * waiting for the verdict'"

But it was neither then nor next day that ]airs.
Grrey and her daughter understood what that meant.

i\.t length the hour for parting came. The company
cleared off to the railway station. Affectionate
and tearful farewells were interchanged. The yacht
got up her steam, moved out of the docks, and
went silently down the river with the tide, as the
twilight faded away. Then as Lady Stella sat on
the deck, looking westward now, whither all her old
dear friends, save one, were gone, for a time she felt
once again lonely and very sad. They were all
gone, and that one, the dearest of all, was not yet
found, and she knew not if he ever would be, in
this world — did know that she might be "too late."

But as we have said, it was not her custom to
yield to useless or mere sentimental sorrow. She
remembered that the young clergyman must also be
feeling sad; and as now, under its new regime, her
heart

". . . was at leisure from itself,
To sooth and sympathize. . . . "

she invited him and Mrs. Benbow to sit beside her,
while, amid the gathering darkness, she spoke to the
young man of his admirable father, of all the blessings
he had brought her, and drew him out to
speak of his own early aspirations and present aims.
Then they conversed about the need and prospects
of missionary work in the South Sea islands. So
that, when parting for the night, they flattered themselves
they had pleased and cheered each other.

LADY STELLA AND HER LOVER.

and had also slightly imbued Mrs. Benbow with a
laudable interest in missionary work, and the welfare
of the Polynesian natives.

Ah, Lady Stella," said young Eivers with kindling
enthusiasm, as he wished her good-night, "if
we could help a little in bringing the carries in
one hand the ' Gifts of Civilization,' and in the other
the 'unsearchable riches of Christ,' what a glorious
destiny is before us ! "

During the voyage out, which was made with all
the rapidity that the remarkable sailing qualities of
the prize-winning yacht and the grand Suez Canal
passage, ensured, Lady Stella and Mr. Rivers
varied the delights of watching all the splendid
effects of ocean, sky, near or distant coasts, by
hard and disagreeable study of the grammar and
dictionaries with which they had been furnished by
the obliging secretaries of the London Missionary
Society. They tried, with rather less success, to
lead Mrs. Benbow and the wives of the missionaries
in the same path of virtuous endeavour. But a
lion " under the outlandish name of Mal-de-Mer at
first stood greatly in the way of all the students except
Stella herself. She was fortunate in emerging
the second day of ther voyage from that Vale of
Affliction, and enjoyed interesting conversations with
the gentlemanly, clever captain, the practical, slightly
self-satisfied, but agreeable doctor, and the faithful,
assiduous Benbow, of whom she was delighted to
find the captain spoke in very favourable terms.

At length the moment of supreme interest arrived
when, by means of the wonderful development which
nautical science has attained since the time of

Ulysses, the captain was able to accost Lady Stella
as she stood on the quarter-deck one evening, and,
lifting his cap, to inform her that she was on the
very spot in the South Pacific which the " Southern
Queen " was traversing when the unfortunate gentleman,
for whom he understood they were in search,
had been sent adrift on the night of the 27th November,
18 — . He had told Benbow to bring up
the yacht's log-book along with the copy of the one
which had been obtained at so much cost, and Stella
saw how exactly the latitude and longitude in their
own log, with the number of knots they had run
since noon that day, and the " course " corresponded
(though happily not the rest of the entry) with
that in the log of the '* Southern Queen."

The yacht had been hove to, and was gently rising
and falling on the grand broad swell of the purple
Southern Sea, as the sun was setting in the western
sky. A light refreshing breeze was softly
stealing over the water, and fanned the flushed face
and golden tresses of the maiden, whose heart was
at first too full to answer the captain's inquiry concerning
her ladyship's wishes as to the next course
to follow. Should they shorten sail and keep as
near their present whereabouts till daylight as practicable
? or, should they sail on through the night
in the direction which Benbow felt sure the cutter
had taken on the memorable evening in question ?

"Can you keep that course through the night.
Captain Head ? " at length asked Stella.

Ohj surely," replied the captain. " You see, my
lady, it is just S.E. by E. which the mate advises
us to steer, and as long as the binnacle lamp burns,
light or dark is all the same to us. But we must
go at half speed, for we are leaving the highway
track, and our charts don't tell us much about the
coral reefs hereaway."

Then, if you please, I should like you to sail
right on. Let me be called if land should be insight
at dawn. But you will run no risks; that
would be worse than waiting. But, will you explain
to me, Mr. Benbow," said the lady, turning to that
officer, and striving to divert her anxious thoughts,
"how you can be sure of the exact direction in
which we are now to go over these pathless waves ?
I understand why and how we came to this precise

spot, but " she paused, seeing only in her mind's

eye the little cutter gliding away from its parent
ship with a single passenger over the Pacific rollers.

Why, it's this way, my lady. Look here at this
compass. You see how many points there are on
the plate. Well, now, while things were all getting
ready to start the boat that night, I took a quick
look at the ship's compass, and as that fine young
gentleman went over the ship's side, I whispered to
him, * Now mind — you keep her South-East by East,'
and I stuffed a bit of paper with ' S.E. b. E.' on it into
his hand, and I kept a copy myself, so I know our
course now, ma'am, you see."

Ah," replied Stella, " if all knew their course

and did their rescue-work as cleverly as you — well,
more, I think, would be saved. But, if you could
get the ship's course so exactly, tell me why you
did not also take and keep a copy of the log-entries
that day?"

Because it would have been as much as my life
was worth. The first mate had the log in his own
keeping. I felt sure it was he gave the finishing
blow that night, and you know the cruel devil
would have stuck at nothing if he once thought I
were playing false. Besides, I counted for sure on
getting a copy at Apia."

So the good ship went gently on through the
darkness, as Wilfrid Dayrell had gone nearly three
years before, and a man in the *' crowns-nest " kept
a sharp look-out for breakers.

A few more extracts from the journal of that
romantic and unfortunate young castaway may be
needful to explain what followed. The journal was
found by Lady Stella.

Wilfrid DayreWs Journal'

After the departure of that friendly captain and
his vessel, I lived on hope, and entered pretty fully
into the meaning of the Apostle when he said, " Weare
saved by Hope." For said captain had not
only promised to send me speedy succour, but had
given me, as I thought, by the ship-carpenter's
hints and tools, the means of building a small boat
myself, as well as a chart by which I saw how to
steer for the Friendly Isles, if my little then unborn
craft was ready first. I was only about a day's sail,
I learned, from Samoa, and for a time both my
little kids and myself were very happy in our small
dockyard. When, however, week after week went
on, and no vessel appeared again in sight, and I
found myself constantly spoiling materials, if not
tools, making no end of mistakes, and more than
once rather seriously wounding both Johnny and myself,
I fear I began to get impatient, and it required
all the fortitude and trust I could muster to
emulate a better man than myself — Job, to wit — to
*' rest in the Lord and wait patiently for Him," ascertain
venerable Psalmists often and in varied tones,

earnestly advised me. Somehow the recent descent
on my shores of that brave fair company which
ought to have been, and at first was, only an unmixed
blessing, had shaken me, not indeed out of
my faith, but out of my composure, my resignation,
and all my beautiful visions and dreams. Yet I
knew that state of mind, and even those dreams,
within certain limits, were Heaven - sent, and I
struggled hard to recover my former equanimity.

I had planted bits of flags with an inscription
underneath them on several exposed points on the
island in case approaching vessels might pass only
by one side of it, and kept on hoping, praying,
trusting. But we all know what has been said of
Hope deferred*' And yet it is true that "joy
corinth in the morning," some morning.

One morning, at all events, I was awakened in
the early dawn by the report of a ship's gun not far
out at sea. At first I thought there was going to
be another cyclone and wreck, but a glance at the
blue sky overhead removed that apprehension. A
second glance seaward as I hurried on my clothes,
revealed what to me was indeed a glorious and
blessed sight. . . . There, within a few fathoms
of the reef, with her steam up and her flying jib
set, an exquisitely beautiful schooner-yacht was slowly
moving over the great ocean swell. A broad blue
pennon was flying from her mainmast, and I need
attempt no description of what I felt when, through
my glass, I read on it the words —

Silver Star."

Had any mortal ever experienced much greater happiness
than I felt at that moment ? As I remarked
to myself and my dogs, I couldn't stand it. . . .
So I sat down.

* * * *

The sagacious Benbow's calculations and prognostications
had proved wonderfully correct. They had
sighted breakers and a reef about 4 a.m. that
morning on the western shore of my island, and as
soon as it was light they descried one of my flags.
Benbow with a boat's crew went off at once, read
the inscription beneath it, and the crew pulled back
to the yacht waving their hats and hurrahing.
Then she came round to the north coast, where they
saw another flag, fired their signal gun, soon after
dropped their anchor and lay full in view. I could not
clearly descry who were the occupants of the vessel,
on account of the great emerald waves dashing up
and over the reef, but I thought I saw women's
dresses fluttering in the bright level sunshine. As
I was about to dash up the cliff to get a clearer
view, I saw a boat pulled by four men, with an
officer and a gentleman in black, enter the lagoon and
pull rapidly towards me. The officer I soon saw was
the ever-faithful Benbow. The gentleman in black
I learned presently was young Mr. Eivers. . . I
cannot describe what followed, any more than at
first I could find words to ask or answer questions,

for my tongue, according to precedent, clave to the
roof of my mouth, and my friends thought I had
lost the power of speech by long enforced silence.
But they soon found out their mistake on that
score when they had answered the only question I
could at first put, viz., *• Lady Stella Faulconhurst
here ? " which they did by all pointing at once to
the yacht, and then shouting and hurrahing by way
of telephonic communication to that vessel.

In less than twenty minutes, after I had given
my boys their breakfast, we were alongside of the
*' Silver Star," where the yards were manned by the
jolly sympathetic tars, cheering like true Britons,
and where I received the hearty congratulations of
the smiling captain and doctor. Meanwhile the other
officers, the sailors, as they came down from aloft,
and the women, stood sympathetically, compassionately,
and rejoicingly looking on. But where
was the one face dearest in all the world to me ?
No calamity had happened or that pennon would
not have been floating there, and there would not
have been those hurrahs with which the boat's crew
had answered my first question, nor those cheerful
smiling faces now. . In less time than it
takes me to write, the Captain pointed to his own
state-room, which he had most considerately cleared
out for the occasion, and whispered to me, " You
will find her ladyship in there. She couldn't bear
meeting you first in public. We'll let you know
when breakfast is ready."

And there we met once more . . . and we said
we would never part again, when we could say anything
at all, besides calling ea-jh other names. . . .
*****

Here the entries in Wilfrid Dayrell's journal
appear to have become very intermittent, and
are sometimes partially obliterated. But for those
who are interested in a storm-tost vessel after she has
entered the harbour — and for those who care about the
result of labour and suffering as well as about the
toils and troubles that produced it, — a few final experiences
of Lady Stella and her lover are now added,
sufficient to lead on from this present meeting to that
final parting which apparently comes to all — even to
lovers, who have kept their golden wedding.

We left these lovers, then, recovering from the transports
of their first meeting after a salutary though
rather trying separation of several years. Then came
many inquiries from Dayrell about his mother and
sisters, and " Fred, the incomparable," and Mrs. Grey
and Frances, and Dr. Elvers, and about all that had
been doing in a cursory way in England, Ireland
and Europe generally, though the latter topics were
chiefly relegated to the breakfast hour.

*' What a lot of curious shells and things that
have * suffered a sea-change into something rich
and strange ' our good captain appears to have got
in his cabin," said Stella, when she and Dayrell had
returned to this charming retreat after breakfast.

Yes, and the strangest of all, next to that dear
little quiz in your arms, appears to be this fellow,"
replied Dayrell, looking at himself in the Captain's
looking-glass. For he hadn't seen such a reflection
of his countenance and unkempt beard for sometime.
" I wonder they were not afraid to let me
come aboard."

"Well," said Stella, holding him at arm's length
and tranquilly surveying him, " I must own you do
look a little the worse for wear. But you've got
somebody now to take care of you, you dear old
'Wild man of the woods.' And when Mrs. Benbow
was hastily mitigating me up, just now, for this
wonderful interview, she bluntly remarked that I
myself looked rather washed out ; but then you see,
I didn't get much sleep last night."

"You look just perfect, darling," answered her
lover enthusiastically, as he once more folded her in
his arms. And perhaps it was no wonder he

thought SO. For there was a light in her eyes now,
an expression in her face, far lovelier than anything
he had ever seen there before.

"That's very prettily said," remarked Stella.
And in return, I may observe that, in spite of
your dismal experiences here, or perhaps in consequence
of them — yes, you really do look very much
like Jackoo, don't he, my pet ? Yet, oh, what a
compliment I'm paying you. Sir Galahad, by that
simile ! But I brought Jackoo on purpose to show
him the progress made, through Evolution, by some
of his nearest relations. I long to introduce him to
your babies."

The Captain thought he could run the yacht
through the opening in the reef, and soundings
having been taken by the mate in a boat, it was
resolved to try. The operation was rather a ticklish
one, but with the aid of the little steam-screw was
successfully accomplished, and soon after, Dayrell
was introducing Lady Stella to his dear little pupils,
his dogs, their puppies, his cave and cliff, and other
chief points of local interest. The day however was
mostly spent by that romantic young couple in sitting
under the shade of palm-trees and spinning
long yarns to each other concerning their respective
adventures since they had parted rather abruptly
one dull day in Portman Square.

But oh, my paladin-hermit," exclaimed Stella,
early in these proceedings, " why have you not exterminated
these horrible flies ! instead of sitting
VOL. in. 48

with your feet in a brook all day, twiddling your
thumbs ! "

Stung with remorse, Dayrell started up, exclaiming
: " Mea culpa ! I forgot," and immediately
lighted his infallible fire, handing his companion a
burning brand snatched from it, as a type, Stella
softly remarked, of himself. Once relieved from
the plague of flies, Stella was of course overwhelmed
with delight, like everybody else, with the
scenery, the groves of palm-trees, the majestic forest
behind them, the lovely flowering shrubs, with the
sun's rays shining through their leaves, the golden
sands and dark green velvet turf, the purple butterflies,
the exquisite air, and the glorious tints of the
ever-changing ocean.

Well," she said at last, " if you must be put
into solitary confinement for a few years, you could
hardly have had a more lovely prison, barring the
flies. How you must have longed, over and over
again, to have half the denizens of Whitechapel, &c.,
located in surroundings like these. . . ."

"Yes," replied Dayrell, *' if only I could have
sent them all through a moral and physical bath of
purification first, and then have been sure of providing
them with due remunerative work and any
amount of rational recreation."

"No one," said Stella, "who has not been
brought up among green fields and trees and leafy
lanes, and then had to live in a wilderness of brick
and mortar, dingy courts and squalid alleys, can

have any idea how much both one's moral and
physical life suffers from want of the healing,
healthy, restorative influences of Nature."

Grod grant, dear Stella, that we may help those
much-wronged dirty denizens, or their children, to
get out of the slums."

Ah, if we do," replied Stella, " it will have been
well worth undergoing all our woes to accomplish
that bit of business. But oh, how wicked it was of
you to run away."

Dayrell saw what was coming and promptly ran
off to meet his babies, who, after their morning
bathe, were carefully toiling up the hill, hand in
hand, with their Allen-stocks, towards the palm grove
where he and Stella were sitting.

"Oh yes, bring them here," exclaimed Stella. "I
very much want to be introduced." She was soon
immensely interested in Johnny and little Pickle,
who returned her attentions with extravagant marks
of approval and delight, took her soft white hands
in theirs and kissed them oft. Then she introduced
their cousin to them, the little monkey, whom they
took to more effusively than he did to them.

"It was a touching mark of your lingering
affection for the original Jackoo's mistress, to bestow
his name on this dear little chap," said Stella,
stroking the raven locks of the young disciple, as
they sat on the cliff the next day, under the
palm-trees. " But it must have been hard work
giving up a quick passage home to England for

48—2

the sake of your poor babies, especially when by
remaining you might have caught the fever and
died here, all alone. Ugh ? "

"But, my Silver-Star, if 1 had gone off and left
them to die here alone, you see I should have just
missed you. . . ." (" and been drowned in the
Need Sea'' he might have added, but he didn't then
know of that sad catastrophe).

"Ah, that's all very well, but don't presume on
your goodness. Keep your distance. Sir, and attend.
You had no business to be here at all, worrying
us at home out of our wits. You were very, very
naughty to rush out of England in that madcap
fashion — and unless you kneel down at once (nobody
can see us here, can they ?), and confess how wicked
it was of you, I'll not undertake to be ordinarily
civil to you (except in company) — let alone, as they
say, again, in Shadwell, being on any intimate, or
even friendly, terms with you."

Hereupon Wilfrid's confession and repentance of
his evil-doing were so complete that Stella was mollified,
if not melted in admiration of his humility —
declared she entirely forgave him, and assured him
that she could once more begin to respect him ;
while all the time this artful young lady was secretly
congratulating herself on having successfully diverted
her companion from considering her own share of
the proceedings that had resulted in his abrupt departure
in search, as she defined it, of " the South
Sea Bubble." She may not have kept those secret

congratulations entirely to herself very long, for after
the said companion's creditable confession of sin, an
intimate friendship appeared to spring up between
them ; and a few other confessions on either side, indue
course, probably followed.

And you must admit," remarked Dayrell resuming
his seat beside Stella after completing his penance,
that I paid pretty heavily for my sin — though that
wouldn't have mattered, if it hadn't brought such
deadly trouble to you."

"Ah," replied the lady, "if the truth must be
told, (only I didn't want you to know it,) I can't
help thinking I deserved punishing more even than
yourself. Besides did we not agree long ago that
we must suffer for the sake of those we love, as well
as for our own sins, if our love is to become unselfish,
perfect, and sincere ? that we must be ' tried by fire '
and so be prepared for such happiness as is given tous
now ? I'm rather doubtful, thou beloved Dionysiac
votary, if it would have altogether conduced to our
mutual and permanent friendship had we come together
without first drinking our respective cups of
wormwood and gall."

Dayrell frankly admitted there was probably some
truth in that remark.

"Besides," continued Stella, "look at all the good
which I think is coming out of my having to go and
live in Shadwell, by means of that ' Girls' Home.'
It is a blessing to think of that little nest. Only I
wish the poor birds were all out here."

Then Dayrell got her to tell him all she could
about Dr. Elvers' sermons and the effect they wrought
on her in bringing her to a humble and virtuous frame
of mind — though, as she affirmed, " they would have
been as ineffectual as the traditional lightning on the
ice, had not my weak woman's heart been ploughed
and harrowed by your inconsiderate departure and
subsequent mishaps. However now you may explain
to me briefly why and how you got so much good
as you profess from those little dingy Christmas
presents."

Why, in trying to teach them," answered Dayrell,
*'I got a deal of light myself — especially on points
that used to bother you so desperately, and to which
I could, then, give no answers that satisfied you."
Dayrell then read explanatory portions of his journal,
adding, " So, you see, all this, and much more of
the same kind, made me understand how my Lord
was continually helping me as I helped those poor
children, and how G-od was thus proving to me that
He loved me by all He did for me through Christ.
In short I saw that this was His divine and beautiful
plan throughout the Universe — making His faithful
children, but most of all. His divine and beloved
Son, sharers in His own glorious privilege of doing
good."

"I think you must have been stealing one of Dr.
Rivers' sermons, dear," remarked Stella.

Perhaps I have been learning from his Teacher,"
replied Dayrell; "the same that taught my pupils

to instruct me by their privations, and spiritual needs.
So that the more I was alone with God, the more
frequently and distinctly I knew I was with Him."

"Ah, I felt this, too, in that crowded desert at
the East End. Gro on, dear Mentor — no longer my
tor-mentor. And yet we are agreeing so delightfully
that I begin to fear, after all, it can't be *us.' Are
we no longer * to tear each other's eyes ? ' But goon.
I would rather listen to you. It does not make
my 'angry passions rise'"

How nice of them. But I have not much more
to tell. When I tried to explain to Jacky the
mystery of his pains and troubles, I learned a great
deal on that subject myself. He was much surprised
to find I also had my troubles. But I told him that
I should have had very little sympathy with him
had I not been tried and tempted myself, and very
little power to help him. Some day I hope to show
him how all the best and bravest of God's saints
have been the most sorely tried, and been made perfect,
like their divine Master, 'through suffering'"

"It has often seemed to me," said Stella, "that a
passage in St. Paul's 2nd letter to the Corinthians,
where he describes how he besought the Lord thrice
to remove that miserable thorn in the flesh, is one
of the most consolatory and strengthening in the
whole Bible. What do you understand by the answer
Paul got?"

"That true strength and peace come only from
that perfect self-surrender to God and self-sacrifice

for man, which we gain from Christ when we feel
our own utter weakness and insufficiency and turn
to him for help. Is not that your idea of its meaning ? "

Yes — for I know now that we can gain it only
through trouble and pain — only when we feel we are
not sufficient for our own progress and peace. But
I meant also that St. Paul's experience was so wonderfully
consolatory because he found, and teaches us to
find, one of the greatest of all blessings — Strength —
come out of one of the greatest of all miseries —
Weakness. And here I feel the unspeakable value,
Wilfrid, of your experience with Johnny — especially
of what you thought and felt that night when, as
you told me, you saw you had just as much reason
to know that Grod touched your soul by His Spirit —
came to you in Christ with healing and peace to
your mind and nerves — as the boy had for believing,
knowing, that you helped, fed, and comforted him.
You remember ? "

Aye, indeed. That night was fought one of the
decisive battles ' of my little world. And note the
full significance of Christ's answer to Paul's petition
to be relieved from that thorn — 'My grace is sufficient
for thee.' Strength, life, health, peace come from
the grace of Christ,' not only because God has
caused * virtue to go out of Him to heal us all,' but
because that ' virtue ' comes in this spirit of self-surrender
to Grod and self-sacrifice for man of which
you just spoke."

Ah, that reminds me," said Stella with animation,

that many years ago, long before I knew that dear
Dr. Rivers, I remember asking some worthy clergyman
in one of those unaccustomed better moods,
which never came to me except in great tribulation,
what he thought were the most consolatory passages
in the Bible. My heart was sore ; and, half-sincerely
half-scornfully, I had begun looking at the Scriptures.
The Promises,' he answered ; and for some little
time I rejoiced in them greatly and always thought
them very sweet and beautiful, as I do now. But I
cannot say I found lasting help and strength from
them. Not till I had learnt from the character and
sufferings and teachings of Christ, and, afterwards
of his Apostles and ministers, the lesson you have
just mentioned, could I find any real abiding peace,
beloved missionary," said Stella, as she concluded by
resting her head on her lover's shoulder and took
one of his hands in hers.

*' And then you went down to Shadwell to put
all your beautiful ideas into practice, poor dear
heart."

"No; before I thought of going there, I pleased
myself with thinking that though I could do nothing
for the good of my fellow-creatures (think how blind
I was then !) yet if I bore my heart-ache and disappointments
willingly, cheerfully, and fought bravely
the demons in my own soul, I might be really doing
something to help others in ways of which I knew
not. And so a larger sphere was opened to me."

** That was just my feeling. Star of the West,"

replied Dayrell, "when I was in all my trouble
here. There must have been brain-waves passing
between us — "

"Or, as you said just now," replied Stella, *Hie
same Teacher, to whom Time and Space are nonexistent,
instructing us both. But I wonder, by the
bye, I did not then think of re-building my poor
labourers' cottages. Ah, well-a-day, *The duty that
lies nearest to us ' — when shall we always remember
to do it ? But coming back to the groundwork and
foundation of all this revolution in our respective
mental and moral views, especially mine — and replying
to one of your innumerable questions — I saw
after a time that although it may be impossible to
answer all the learned arguments brought to prove
the impossibility of knowing Grod, and difficult
always to convince others of His existence, providence,
love; it is easy enough to convince oneself
that He is, and that He cares for us, helps
and blesses us, merely by trying to find Him, just
as your babies convinced themselves you were a
hero and saint by putting out their hands and
feeling for you."

"That's it," said Dayrell. "Nothing like experience.
Many years ago, learned professors,
notably one Dr. Larder, proved as they thought
incontestably that steam-vessels could not possibly
cross the Atlantic. But some able engineers and
London merchants said, 'Let us try.' So they
formed a company, and built their steamers, and

sent them to Xew York; and all men, even the
professors, admitted that there was no proof in
such cases so convincing as experience."

Stella clapped her hands exultingly, and exclaimed,
" Ah, poor professors ! I'm sorry for them
all — very. But is not what you are saying just
what St. Paul means when he tells the Corinthians
that spiritual things can be discerned only by the
spiritual part of our nature — by Uhe Spirit which
is of God ' ? "

You are right, teacher," said Dayrell, " I am
learning of you."

Don't be sarcastic," observed Stella. " But the
Bible and the Spirit of God do teach us something
? "

"Aye, and so do our fellow-creatures," answered
Dayrell. "I have often recalled my mother's words
when I was a boy. She had had to punish one of
my little sisters, and as I couldn't bear to see the
little darling crying so bitterly, I said, * Mother,
you say you love Nellie. How can you make her
so unhappy ? ' And my mother answered sadly but
calmly, ' It is because I love her so dearly, Wilfrid,
that I make her unhappy.' "

Ah, Wilfrid — your mother was a very wise as
well as good woman. No wonder she had such
admirable children — those, at least, of the female
sex. Now keep your temper. Kest and be thankful
— and quiet. Have you seen a live Dodo on this
island ? "

"No."

Do you know the name of the female ? "

"Mrs. Dodo."
■ " Not at alL It is ' Don't-don't.' There, lay that
to heart, and calm your impetuosity. Direct your
thoughts to the fact that joy comes out of sorrow.
Here are we two, once worrying and plaguing each
other like that beautiful little cat and more lovely
little dog of your mother's on the hearth-rug —
then even more unhappy, because we were parted —
and now sitting here together under these palm
trees as jolly as if — indeed, incomparably more
jolly than if — we had never known any tribulation
at all. Oh, my darling, when people are in trouble
why can they not, why lull they not look forward
a little way, and just realize all the unspeakable
blessings God is preparing for them to grow out of
their troubles, and which, be sure, they never could
have known without passing through the fire ! "

"she answered and said'" quoth Dayrell meditatively,
" at least the great monarch of Babylon did,
Lo, I see four men loose, walking in the midst of
the fire — and they have no hurt — and the form of
the fourth is like the Son of Grod.' And it was
because He was there, I ween, that the others had
no hurt."

Yes," said Stella, raising her head from its
pillow and looking up delightedly in her lover's
face. " That will do beautifully for your first
sermon at Samoa or Tongatabu. Don't you long to

begin your missionary labours ? Shall I choose the
hymns for the first service ? "

What a delicious prospect, Lady Silver-Star !
Think of such a climate as this, with the sea and
the flowers, and the trees — oh, how happy we
could be here — here — why not remain here forever
? "

Would it not be delightful ? " said Stella, her
eyes twinkling with mischievous delight. "Oh, may
I — may I quote — just for once, you know —

"'I thought thus of the flowers, the moon —
This fairy isle for you and me —
And then — I thought — how very soon,
How — very — tired we should — be"*

Oh, wicked, wicked little Silver-Star ! Now I'm
quite sure you are my first love — my own darling,
and no mistake at all," exclaimed Darrell, as he
took his beloved in his arms, and she hid her face
laughingly in his bosom, and then looked at him
with sparkling eyes and that provokingly captivating
smile of hers, which, as Wilfrid assured her,
would have made Othello forgive Desdemona,
and Mark Antony lose not one but half a dozen
worlds.

No doubt the scenery and view on that spot were
exquisitely lovely — the sunshine and the sea, the
glorious woods and flowers. But the loveliest sight
of all ever yet beheld on that island must have
been this daughter of Eve thus " imparadised " in
her lover's arms, with that radiant smile illuminating

her face, and the sunshine glinting through
the leaves on her golden hair.

^ ^ * 9

The time went on. The babies had crept down
to the shore. . . .

Arouse ye, arouse ye, my merry, merry men ! "
exclaimed Stella, suddenly. " Let me go ! There's
that dear young priest, I declare, with your two
afflicted but charming infants, wandering all about
by themselves disconsolate ! We have been shamefully,
selfishly neglecting him, Mr. Wilfrid Dayrell,
or rather Mr. Wilful Dayrell, as I think we always
used to call you in our tender years. G-o quickly
and give him comfort."

Oh never mind him just now," replied Dayrell.
*' I remember hearing an old story of seventy years
since, concerning an Essex fox-hunting parson. Do
you remember it ? He had been spilt in a ditch,
and as a couple of farmers flew over him, one was
heard to exclaim, ' Pull up, mon, pull up ! It bethe
parson ! We nun' help 'un.' * Let 'un lie !
let 'un lie ! ' shouted the other. ' He won't be
wanted afore Sunday ! ' And you will doubtless
admit, my Lady Stella, that your excellent young
friend won't be wanted until — until — you fix the day."
Stella darted a scathing look of scorn on the
speaker — turned — and fled. Wilfrid followed swiftly
but when they came within view of the young
clergyman they were both walking together as
quietly and demurely as an old married couple.

Then they greeted and apologized to the young
gentleman, and brought him and the babies up to
the lovely palm-grove on the cliff with its enchanting
views — and all rejoiced — and perhaps silently
worshipped, a little, together.

"A council, not of war, but of plans and progress
is going to be held on board the yacht, to-day,
after dinner," said Stella, when Mr. Eivers had a
little recovered from his extasy. " What do you
and the missionary ladies vote for, Mr. Rivers ? "

What is your pleasure, my lady ? " replied that
gentleman gallantly.

Oh, I'm content to stay here," replied Stella,
*' if only we could import a few natives, sufficient to
constitute an episcopal church, and some children
for a Sunday School, so that we could make-believe
we were living useful lives. It would be impossible
to find anything more delightful. But your father
would appear to me in dreams, upbraiding — I
should soon be miserable. We must all go on to
Tongatabu or Samoa without delay."

Mr. Eivers was of a sociable as well as of a
Christian-chivalrous disposition, and he confessed it
was a great satisfaction to him to find he was not
to be deprived of the consolation and support in his
missionary work which would be afforded by the
society and counsels of Lady Stella and Mr. Dayrell.
So it was resolved to transfer all that gentleman's
worldly belongings, including the young disciples,
the dogs and their delightfully amusing but hawk

hardly-behaved progeny, from the island home to
the yacht, giving the ladies and all the ship's
company, in turn, time during two or three days
to ramble about the lovely scenes to be there beheld,
and to disport themselves according to their
respective notions of merriment.

One of the first subjects on which Dayrell wanted
information from Lady Stella after they had disposed
of those more immediately affecting their
mutual relations and their inner life, was the result
of the measures which Fred Ellerslie had been
taking at their joint request for the improvement
of the condition of the labourers on the Hurstleigh
and Priory estates. For Dayrell was rather uneasy
at being so happy in Polynesia when there was still
so much suffering, vice, and crime in the old
country.

Nay," said Stella, in answer to some confession
of this sort, " you have first to get quite well and
strong, and to be duly thankful that the Heavenly
Father is able to make some, at least, of His children
happy. The rest will come on in their turn. Now
listen."

Her account on the whole was satisfactory ;
thoroughly so as regarded the allotment, and small
dairy-farm business, partially in the co-operative
farming enterprise, and the introduction of Home
Arts and village industries for the women and children.


"But as Fred charged me impressively to remark

to you," continued Stella, "in case I happened to
light on you when roaming the seas, all these
remedial measures and new departures take time.
^Festina lenten he observed with his usual pedantic
grace. ' Oh,' I thereupon exclaimed, * it's all very
well for you comfortable gentlemen to take things
coolly, but remember that while the grass grows
the steed or the man starves. Do get on a little
faster.' And he promised he would. But when
we have got good Mr. Rivers and the mission-work
in apple-pie order, and you are as strong as
Dionysus when the sailors wanted to drown him —
say a year or two hence — we'll go to the old home,
and drive the coach, for a bit, ourselves. Will
that satisfy you, darling ? "

Her lover was glad enough to be persuaded that
the duty which " then " lay nearest to him " was
to grow fat and be happy.

Stella's and Dayrell's notion of almost perfect
happiness during the next few days — after they
had visited all the spots of historic interest in
the neighbourhood and then climbed the mountain
with an excursion party from the ship — was to
sit on the cliff together under the shade of palm-trees,
and flowering shrubs, or deep in the recesses
of the woods, talking about old times and their
mutual adventures, experiences, and yet higher
themes connected with those reminiscences. For
they well knew how those high and noble topics
had first knit their souls together ; and now were
VOL. III. ' 49

of deeper interest to them than anything else.
And they thought, in their innocence, that their
mutual love was strong and deep — filled with the
life " which is not evanescent but " eternal " —
because it was rooted and grounded in the Life
which a saint of olden time believed, and therefore
declared, "was with the Father and had been manifested
" to them by His Son.

The hour of departure from what was once Dayrell's
beautiful little prison, but had now become
a true Paradisiacal Garden or " Palace of Delight,"
was at hand. All his goods and chattels had been
conveyed on board, and it was arranged that they
were to sail for the Samoan group early the next
morning. Stella had been privately consulting
Dayrell as to the best course to pursue, " for," said
she, *you must remember, my lord and master,
our good captain will take sailing orders only from
me. I am your slave, but his master. So whither
will it please my lord to go ? "

After much consideration and consultation with the
captain and Mr. Eivers it was decided that they
had better try their missionary schemes first at
Upolu, the principal island of the Samoan group,
and land at Apia, the capital of the native community,
where there was a good harbour and both a
British and American Consulate, and where, moreover,
there was already a French missionary church ;
"and," said Captain Head, "what, perhaps, is even
more to your purpose, Mr. Dayrell, I believe there

are at least ninety native missionaries in Upolu, and
four English, ministers. I won't guarantee them allas
Al, but I know they are doing some good. Then
again in Apia there are two smithies and some steam
cotton-gins. The Samoans, in short," said the Captain,
confirming Darrell's impressions, received from
all he had read about Polynesia, " are on the
whole, perhaps, the most hopeful race in these seas.
Trust me, they have a great future before them;
and you say you want to work the most promising
and fertile soil first."

"Yes," replied Dayrell, "that is good farming, I
think, in the moral as well as the material world.
It will doubtless be possible to produce results
among them sooner than elsewhere, which will
serve as an example and encouragement in the way
that Lady Stella and I most desire to be pursued
in other missions and in other islands. Besides
you say these charming Samoans are already beginning
to be shamefully corrupted by the abominable
white men settled at Apia or visiting the place ;
and if the best do get corrupted it is a far worse
pair of shoes than when only inferior races are
demoralized*' " Corruption optime, &c.," he was going
to quote, but considerately refrained.

Aye," replied the Captain, " that's true enough.
Since Fiji was annexed by the British Crown and
law and order have been a little better established
there and white vagabonds have been warned off,
Apia has been sadly demoralized. Why, not so

49—2

very long ago it was called the ' Hell of the
Pacific' "

Grood heavens ! " exclaimed Mr. Eivers, turning
to Dayrell, "you don't want to take Lady Stella
there ! "

Oh, it's better, I believe, now," said the Captain.
And that unsavoury description, remember, applied
only to a particular quarter. Besides, it's
the Europeans do most of the mischief. Even
when the natives in other places have massacred
a lot of them, it has almost always been because of
great wrongs committed on them. And even when
the whites are on their best behaviour they're apt
to lord it over these poor dusky fellows most offensively,
and succeed in making themselves so intensely
disagreeable that I for one don't wonder
at any amount of retaliation. But then all this
only makes it the more of a duty for Europeans
to make some amends to the poor creatures."

And the more of a privilege also," said Dayrell
cheerily.

Yet if there be so much corruption already in
Upolu," observed Stella dubiously, " may we not
be too late to arrest it, and might it not be better
to try some less painful task elsewhere."

No, my lady," said the Captain, " it's not so
bad as that yet, and you would be in time, I think,
to do a mortal world of good. The mischief, you
see, is mainly at present confined to Apia, and if
you established a good missionary settlement some

few miles farther away, you would soon influence
not only the rest of the natives, but even many of
those living in or near the capital and harbour."

The worst of the matter, I have heard," said
Dayrell, "is the continual civil wars in which the
Samoans involve themselves. The one great object
in life, for a young Samoan brave, seems to be to
get the heads of men of the opposite party and
cast them down before the admiring eyes of the
fair young belles of his own faction."

"Yes, that is all very bad," replied Captain Head.
But the Samoans are naturally a peace-loving,
generous people, the very reverse of blood-thirsty.
These incessant wars have been mainly got up
for selfish purposes by foreign adventurers. You
and Lady Stella might do a deal to suppress them
particularly if you get a lot of picked young
Britons, as you propose, of both sexes to come and
settle among them — and give them lots of music
and dancing, recitations, athletic sports, &c. My
lady's voice with yours. Sir, in duets, and perhaps
Mr. Rivers', would be more powerful in the direction
of peace than any of their big tom-toms for war."

I believe you, Captain Head," said Dayrell.
The most reliable authorities agree with you that
they are the best-conducted people in Polynesia.
And they have never been cannibals. Lady Stella."

That's a little comfort," replied the lady, "' for
your friends, as you might find the tendency
catching."

"Moreover," added the captain, "they show a
wonderful taking for religion, especially the women
which would just suit you, Sir, and Mr. Elvers.
There's a regular sisterhood, now, of Samoan women
under the French Catholic Seminary at Apia. Then
you might do a good deal to help our countrymen
to get hold of a good trade in those islands. The
natives have many things to export, and take a
fair lot of European goods in return ; but when I
was last there the trade was almost entirely in the
hands of the Germans of Hamburg. Cultivation
of nearly everything is immensely profitable in
Polynesia, whenever you get security for property,
order, and good management."

Is there not need also," enquired Lady Stella,
'' for a Blue-ribbon crusade among the Polynesians ?
I have heard sad stories of the effect of excessive
Kava drinking."

You haven't heard worse than the truth, my
lady, I warrant. There's no end of disease caused
by it."

■ "And then," added Dayrell, "in addition to all
those weighty reasons, the scenery and the climate
of Upolu appear to be pre-eminently attractive —
more so than even in the Tonga islands. There
are such magnificent ranges of mountains on it,
and we could have a charming locale for the
head-quarters of our mission, Lady Stella, upon
beautiful rising grounds ascending towards the
mountains, and surrounded by palm-groves, splendid

old forest trees, falling waters, emerald turf,
glorious flowering shrubs, and impressible natives !
Oh yes, let us go to Upolu."

So it was resolved, and Darrell desired to dance
triumphantly on the quarter-deck a Bacchantic measure,
which Stella recommended should be got over
previous to arriving at Upolu.

One last walk and talk had Lady Stella and
her lover that evening — a ramble of surpassing
beauty, never to be forgotten. Dayrell took her
through long aisles of palm-trees which were like
the nave of some lofty cathedral for stillness and
grandeur, where at intervals on one side they
looked on deep ravines sometimes flanked by
precipitous crags, and full of giant ferns, magnificent
chesnut and other forest trees, with lovely
creepers and climbing plants stretching from tree
to tree — while on the other side, ever and anon,
they caught glimpses of the deep-blue ocean,
stretching away into illimitable space.

On the eve of their departure from a place filled
with so many strange and touching memories,
Dayrell's thoughts took rather a serious turn, and
Stella shared his mood. Gratitude for the past,
and anticipations concerning the untried future
before them, combined with the surrounding
scenery, and the soft evening hour, to hush their
spirits into a sweet and holy harmony. A nearly
full moon enabled them to extend their ramble
far beyond the set of sun which would otherwise

have soon left them in utter darkness. But that
radiant Queen of Night rode high in the heavens
"touching all things with beauty," and adding
marvellously to the effect of the forest scenery,
by its light and shadow.

For some little time neither could or wished to
talk, for their hearts were very full.

Might not a good name for this island," said
Stella at length, "be the Island of Worship? T
don't wonder that with your tendencies you should
have found it greatly quicken that religious life
of which you used to discourse to me so eloquently,
when I fear I was not worthy to hearken.
But oh, I do go with you now, dearest, heart and soul ? "

No wonder, Stella, that I have felt since you
came, more than ever, that this is a glorious temple
of worship ; both for the worship of Joy, as well as
for the higher cult which embraces all other worship.
Do not these grand solemn aisles, those enchanting
glades, the stars, this glorious night, all seem
made to lift our souls to heaven ? "

"I think we are very near, Wilfrid, now to the
Abodes of the Blest, and to Him who makes them
blest. All we want, I fancy, is perfect love, perfect
holiness, and, as somebody adds, wings."

Yes, the outward conditions, all except the
wings, are certainly given to mortals in such
islands as these — "

"At night"— interjected Stella softly, " Remember
the flies by day — "

''Ah, but you saw to what an extent I am able
to allay that pest, and you may be sure Science
which has done so much for man will ere long
conquer and exterminate the flies. And do you know,
Captain Head has just told me that flies and mosquitos
have disappeared in Levuka, and will certainly
do so in Upolu when wider clearings are made
in the dense vegetation. Now, isn't that jolly ? So I
return to my profound faith that if God wills, I may
yet do something on earth with your help to realize
my grandfather's noble dream. Don't you long,"
exclaimed the enthusiast, turning and facing his
companion, " Don't you long to carry out his
purpose further than allotments, and abundance
of milk, eggs, and bacon, with Arcadian bliss and
popular concerts, penny readings, and social clubs
in the rural districts and back slums ? Further
even than a magnificent Palace of Delight (all
honour to its originator !) in the East End of
London ? . . . . And yet — and yet — Yes I
know — in this world it can be but the beginning,
the aspiration and upward striving towards perfect
Joy. But even here on earth, may we not help
to turn the railway points the right way for
coming generations, and thus give some example,
however poor and imperfect, to England, to Europe,
to the whole world ? "

While Dayrell was uttering these words, glancing
now at the moon and stars and then at her face,
she thought she had never known before of what

.A

stuff he was really made. " Yes, tie is an inspired
poet-prophet," was all she could think or say at
the time ; and she afterwards assured him that
recollections of Isaiah, Lord Chatham, the Archangel
Gabriel, and Dr. Rivers kept haunting her
many a day. After that they sat gazing on the
moon-lit sea, a long time, silently.

"But how true it is," said Dayrell, as they
resumed their walk, " what you said yesterday,
(or was it I ?) about the need of preparation for
the pure and reasonable worship and fruitful
reception of Joy. . . . Even we, admirable
and delightful as we both are, needed, I suppose,
all that grinding and pounding in the mortar of
Affliction, which we have endured, to fit us to
enter into our Master's joy."

"Then what Solomon said," observed Stella,
about the uselessness of braying a person of
limited intellect ' in a mortar,' you think would
not apply to us? Yet I fear all the braying and
pounding in the world won't get the folly out of
me. Have you made up your mind to that ? "

No doubt," replied Dayrell, " you are very
naughty, but so am I — and it is such grand fun
having to forgive one another. Well, lady fair,
I'm sure I had one thing to learn, i.e., to forgive
as I had need of forgiveness — especially from you,
my Queen. For I used to take offence so easily ;
and ' to be wroth with those ' — you know the
rest. Ah,, how bitterly in my loneliness I sometimes

mourned in remorse over my touchiness,
and longed to hear you uttering some stinging
sarcasm in my ear ! "

"And I, Wilfrid, in my unsavoury Shadwell
desert, more than once, I confess, wept like a
child over my wicked behaviour in former days,
and would then have given worlds to hear you
scolding me, or peremptorily insisting on my bowing
down and worshipping, not you, which perhaps I did
but ' the Unknown.' Ah, well — indeed I know
Him now. But I am glad, Wilfrid, you like forgiving,
for the old Adam or Eve is still rather
strong in you — I mean in me — and it won't do to
quarrel irreconcilably again, for alas, I found out
before you left the land of your fathers, I couldn't
do without you."

^ # «: « *

What a splendid lot of books you brought with
you," said Stella, after an interval. (She had
been helping to pack them earlier in the day.) " I
don't mean in regard to number so much as in
choice. They must have been a great resource to
you in your imprisonment."

"Yes, indeed," replied Dayrell, " though at first
I didn't care to look at them much. I was only too
happy to bathe myself day after day in a perfect
sea of loveliness, and in all the glorious thoughts
and feelings to which the utter solitude in the
midst of so much beauty and peace gave rise."

I was afraid," said Stella, " that with your constitutional

tendency to look at all thinks en noir
(if I may venture to hint at it) "

If ! " exclaimed her lover. " Why you might
almost tell me I was talking sentimental nonsense
now, and I shouldn't be angry."

Oh, Wilfrid," exclaimed Stella covering her face
with her hands, *you are heaping coals of fire on
my head. Ah, now I know you at least are converted
— And perhaps that'll do for both of us '' — she
added, looking up again bright and saucy as ever.
It really is very lovable and beautiful of you to
say what you do, but it would not make me at all
more lovely or lovable, I well know now, to ' carry
on' in that style, again, though you have become
such a good Christian."

"Haven't I, just!" said Dayrell. "Why, I could
actually love you, now, in spite of such dreadful
sarcastic satire. Only try me. Just say ' nonsense '
without ' sentimental ' — to begin with — and see — "

"No," replied Stella, shaking her head and
smiling in turn, though rather sadly. " I'm a little
changed, if not quite converted. And true love — •
tender and true ' — is now too sacred, perhaps too
precious, dearest, to be recklessly insulted. I ought
not to have repeated that quotation about the
fairy isle — eh ? So let us resume our studies, and our
walk. I was going to remark, when you diverged,
that I feared with your melancholic proclivities you
would have been, from the first, miserable here alone
- — or at least would have made yourself so."

• "Not at first. It was all so new and beautiful.
But when I once began to be unhappy — ah, then
indeed that abominable habit to which you refer, of
grumbling and growling, did immensely aggravate
my affliction. Afterwards, when some sense of.
Christian love and trust and duty began to penetrate
my darkened mind, and still more after the
dogs and the babies arrived, I came to the wise
conclusion that if we don't and won't enjoy at the
time what measure of happiness God sees it is best
then to give us, we must not expect and won't get
larger measure and higher quality."

I know," said Stella with a sigh. " Yet we both
of us knew all that and a great deal more that
was wise and good, long, long ago. But oh, what
a weary interval there always is between seeing a
great or important truth and being able to act
upon it."

I dare say," rejoined Dayrell, " that is one
reason why Christ and his apostles lay so much
stress on the virtue of patience."

Yes, and why Fenelon in that dear little book
of his ' Letters,' which you gave me before the Flood,
says we must learn to bear with our own faults as
patiently as we should do — not as we do — with
those of our erring brethren. Patience and books,
without water-gruel did help you along, a good
deal, did they not ? "

Books ! yes. Many and many an hour of perfect
happiness went by while I was plunged in reading

them. All sense of loneliness, all hungering after
what was lost to me, perhaps for ever, were altogether
forgotten. And especially whenever I took
up a volume of Byron's poetry the old fascinations
came over me as strongly as ever. And I can't tell
you how grateful I felt not only to him but also to
my grandfather and old Mr. Eivers for that Oriel
lecture on himself and his poetry which helps me so
greatly in balancing and harmonizing the tumultuous
overpowering thoughts and feelings to which
his poems always give rise in my unruly mind
when I read them. . . . But next to Byron I
found Milton's * Paradise Lost ' my chief delight,
and either a healthy tonic or * soothing syrup.' His
exquisite descriptions of Adam and Eve in Paradise
seem to sketch out so beautifully the primeval conception
and ideal of all that love, peace, joy, which
you know I had been trained to look and long for.
Oh, the beauty of those idyllic scenes where Eve
describes her first meeting with her lover and
spouse, and where their mutual love and happiness,
and peace, in that fiiir garden in 'dewy eve' and
morning bright, are described with unequalled
tenderness and purity. Ah, my beloved, is it not a
tale of that blessed 'Juvenis Mundi' whereof we
dream — only in a sweeter, purer, grander, though not
brighter, form than the dear old Grrecian legends ? '*
I understand," replied Stella, who had been dancing,
for a minute, to her shadow in the moonlight. " Yes,
and I too have delighted in the * Paradise Lost,' though

not so well and wisely as you must have done. I fear it
was rather the magnificent descriptions of Satan and
his angels, than of the ' grand old gardener and
his wife,' that rejoiced my little wicked heart."

Aye," replied Dayrell, with a compassionate look,
sympathy goes a long way to make us enjoy
poetry."

"But now, since you have alluded to Milton, and
10 prove to you how large a share of the Satanic
element I possess (only you do not doubt it) —
look here, my perfect paladin, I'm going to put my
foot down " — and the fair speaker advanced one
elegantly laced shoe and stamped. *•' The descriptions
of Eve's subservient, not to say cringing, attitude
towards Adam I might pity and forgive, for she is
such a darling, and Adam must have loved her so
intensely; and having myself somewhat emerged
out of mere heathenism into the Christian state,
though, haply, not quite as much so as you, I also
have learned to forgive. But there's one line I
detest, and denounce, and abjure, and demand that
you should do the same —

' He for God only^she for God in him ' . . ,
Xow tell me instantly you hate — no, we are
Christians — tell me that you utterly repudiate, with
severe repugnance, that abominable dogma, or — I'll
turn into a mermaid — were it not that sharks may
like a mermaid for supper " — and she peeped over
the edge of the cliff. " Then say that it's a false
view of our relation to God," she added, as

Wilfrid gently drew her away from the edge.
Why only see how it's fraught with moral evil !
Look at the consequences. Do you think that if
Mother Eve had learned to look direct to Grod instead
of worshipping poor Father Adam, she would
ever have plucked that apple ? And oh, is not this
true of a great multitude of her unhappy daughters
since ? Speak, paladin ! "

I believe what you say is true," answered Dayrell
meditatively, " profoundly true. It sets me thinking."

Wilfrid, why are you like Sir Isaac Newton ?
Because you both are set a-thinking by an apple.
I have little doubt you closely resemble him when
he, too, was meditating on the fall. Now, speak''

"Then listen, 'Fiat justitia, &c.,' which means do
Milton justice, though in consequence we should
never reach Upolu. I abandon that line of his to
your just condemnation, and utterly repudiate it
myself. But Stella — do you remember a letter you
wrote me years ago, when you desired to substitute
for Comte's worship of Woman your worship of Man,
and filled me thereby with deadly alarm ? "

Stella .did remember, and exclaimed, " Oh, Wilfrid,
what an inconvenient memory you have ! I had quite
forgotten ." Then, filled " with confusion of face,"
she humbly pleaded that at that time she could worship
only in the outer " Court of the Gentiles ; " and that,
had she not been as misguided as Eve in the matter
of worship, she would probably not have fallen like
Eve, nor have been so rude to her poor Sir Galahad.

Then," said her lover, " have mercy on Milton.
Eemember that great thinkers and writers are
inspired with great ideas, yet even they see them
more or less ' through a glass darkly.' Milton felt
in the deepest depths of his grand soul that weare
made for Grod — that it is the highest blessedness
to rise to Grod, to become one with Him. Now
women have naturally more of that glorious up-looking
reverence, which is the soul of true worship,
than men, and hence are not only more ready to
look up to Grod, but even to human beings of the
stronger sex — to see God in them."

I'm glad you dare not say the better sex " —

*' Xo — they are generally the worse — though I rejoice
to know there are exceptions on both sides. Happy
for woman when especially in early life and in these
of the paternal relative, happier still no doubt
when in the person of a husband, women's reverential
feelings are amply justified — happiest of all, I"
imagine, if her earthly worship leads up to that,
adoration of the Divine which is the true and perfect-consummation
alike of masculine and feminine excellence.
Xow, stern Amazon, is not that objectionable
sentiment of Milton's to be explained by admitting
that he saw half the great orb of truth regarding
your enchanting sex — but not the whole ? Write
him down only as limited (like other mortals, even
the loveliest of the fairer sex) — not as malignant."

I yield," said Stella pensively, " as I fear I may
have to do again before I die — though by the bye,
VOL. III. oO

if I am to behave like Eve I may as well do the
thing correctly and adopt not her costume but her
very words, which I think go to this tune, or something
like it : —

' I yield my spouse, and now begin to see
How Beauty is excelled by manly grace
And Wisdom, which alone is truly fair.'
But yet to yield is hard— for that implies
Subjection — which I do not like to give —
At least not yet. But then, again, methinks,
Thy manly graces and thy loving sway
Deserve that homage which I give thee now,
Yielded with coy submission, modest pride,
And sweet reluctant ' combative ' delay.' "

Away with you, fallen Silver-Star I " exclaimed
Dayrell iu a tempest of love and wrath. " Here I
put my foot down, and forbid you ever to travesty
Milton again. iVlas, alas that you should ever have
been taught to read ! "

*' Make-believe I never was, dear, and didn't quote
Milton and that I never will again. But it's so
delightful to be revenged on him just a little. But
I won't read him, or anybody else, any more. You
read enough for both — and oh, dear Wilful Wilfrid,
with all your reading get understanding, and a little
more wisdom if possible and teach me better ways ! "
. . Then there was silence in their heaven for
half a minute as they sat on a bank beholding the
moon — broken by Stella murmuring '' Since you
always read to such good purpose, what a blessing
your books must have been to you."

"Yes," replied Dayrell, "but you see the worst

of the blissful condition into which my books brought
me, in those dark and terrible days, was the returning
to self-conscious wretchedness, every time when
I could read no longer. The contrast was so inexpressibly
painful."

Yet I suppose," said Stella, '' the interval of peace
and happiness helped to preserve your health and
reason, poor dear, till the Higher powers of your soul
regained their lofty sway."

No doubt. And Byron could not teach me that
perfect self-surrender in deep love and trust to the
Higher Power which brought me peace and the
mens sana in corpore sand ' once more. There was
other medicine needed for that. But he has ere now
learnt the lesson, I doubt not — learnt that in true
perfect love that surrender must be made, and that
only thus can it be noble, dignified, blessed — learnt
that herein lies the answer to those vast and terrible
riddles which he propounds, and which the Universe
contains."

Yes — I could almost believe an angel, who had
just glided down those radiant moon-beams, was
whispering to us how that soaring, suffering glorious
soul, so full of love and passion, reverence and power,
that great passionate soul, at last has found his forgiveness,
his purification, his home, his rest, and his
eternal joy."

And methinks," said Dayrell, " that one of his
greatest joys when happy, and one of his sweetest
consolations when sad, will be to know that there

50-2

are those who love him on earth, and who recognize
and feel the blessing his poetry has been, and long

will be to the world."

* * * ♦

The musical tones of a bell on board the yacht
came floating up.

Ah, we must go," said Stella with a sigh. " Weare
not yet in heaven — for there, we are told that
Time shall be no more.' And my captain makes
it — "six bells, eight bells," &c., with unfailing and
provoking punctuality. Well — after all — yes, I shall
be very sorry to leave this island, Wilfrid," again
sighed Stella, as they walked back through the
palm-tree arcades, and down the brilliantly moonlighted
cliff, , towards the shore where the faithful
Benbow and his little boat were waiting to convey
her back to the yacht.

Ah, so shall I," echoed Dayrell mournfully, " and
yet, dearest, I look forward to still greater happiness
than we have known even here. One last thought
seems to crown this walk Stella, and our last night
together, on our * Isle of Worship.' Looking at this
wonderful scene, with those countless stars and the
Lady Moon riding in regal beauty amid her radiant
court, everything around us speaking of peace and
love, it seems so natural to think of what must bethe
beauty and the glory of Him who created it all.
I remember once on just such an evening here, but
when I was all alone and thinking of you, a crowd
of early memories came flowing in upon me connected

with the strange passion and power of the love of
man and woman. I can't describe how vividly, oh
how painfully, I was realizing that power when all
at once I saw and felt as I had never done before,
how Grod Himself must be penetrated and filled with
that love — for does it not all flow forth to us from
His infinite heart ? Nothing new in that thought —
no, but it was the admiration I felt for the beauty
of His nature and His works confined with the
feeling of His unspeakable over-flowing love which
for a brief moment raised me into a state of extasy
I can never forget. Z)o you understand me, dearest ?
. . I cannot, never shall be able to, describe
what I then felt . . but you understand me."

Stella did not answer. . . But as he looked in
her eyes, he saw they were wet with tears. He knew
that he was understood — and they walked on in
silence — the hearts filled with a great divine awe
and joy. . . .

The silence was broken by Stella's whispering as
Wilfrid bent towards her for a farewell kiss —

"But, Wilfrid dear — you taught me long ago
these words : * He who loves G-od truly must love
Him without expecting any return.' "

Even thus, my darling, I have loved you for
many a day. But Grod does give a return — and
therefore — we are here — and therefore I take one last
kiss, before we meet only in public on board your
beautiful Star Queen. . . Ah, my lady, believe
me, there is yet an even happier day for us coming."

Oh, yes," exclaimed Stella, as she disengaged
herself, and then, hastening on a few steps in advance,
looked back at her lover with one of her sauciest
smiles, saying, " Oh, yes — I know — I know you want
to refer to the time when * the parson will be wanted '
and is picked up out of the ditch ! But I shan't
stay to listen now. Grood night," and with a soft
silvery laugh, she " hasted away."

As darrell lay that night in his cave, for the last
time, sleepless with joy, these words kept passing
through his brain — "Now the God of Hope fill you
with all joy and peace in believing — that ye may
abound in hope through the power of the Holy
Spirit." And he remembered how startled he had
been one night when in. the midst of his misery
he had come across that passage and reflected that
it and many other such passages were written by,
and addressed to. persons who when they wrote and
read them were often enduring a far worse fate, fur
greater sufferings, than his own — and yet were " filled
with all joy and peace in believing." He had long
since found that peace and joy himself, and now he
knew that his beloved had realized it also.

Stella," he murmured into the dark yet star-lit
world around him, as he lay looking up to the heavens,
"now I know of a surety that what the world needs
at the present time, more than almost all beside, is
the power and the will to realize, habitually, the
blessedness which Grod has in store for us, which He
is continually bringing out of all our afflictions and

errors, and-which He is thereby always preparing us
to enjoy — partially in this world — but with ever-increasing
fulness of joy, amid those glorious worlds
above, throughout Eternity."

Great must be the virtue of Hope. For has it not
been ranked with Faith, and even with Love !

The voyage to Upolu was beneath cloudless skies
and over sunny purple seas. The two little boys
evidently greatly enjoyed the various novelties with
which they now came in contact, and had much
more of Lady Stella's company than anybody else.
For she was working hard at their education (and
her own — in their language). Their rapt and mute
devotion to her was very touching, and their delight
in her society was as striking as the quickness with
which they caught the ideas she endeavoured to communicate.
" You know," said she to Dayrell, when
extenuating her conduct in neglecting him, " I owe
them a great deal not only for being such a comfort
to you in your prison, but for teaching you so well
in spiritual matters wherein, poor fellow, you know
you were once profoundly ignorant — almost as stupid
as myself."

If Wilfrid Dayrell hadn't been securely confident
that he was to be married to this fascinating creature
at the end of the voyage, he would doubtless have
been painfully jealous in the course of it, and have
dreaded mingling with her once again in civilized
society. For everybody — from the captain, Mr.

Elvers, the surgeon, and the Missionaries' wives down
to the little boys and even the puppies (who were
the delight by the bye of everybody, especially of
Little Pickle) — seemed to be in love with her. Eut
then — no great blame to her.

The happy wives were duly deposited at their
respective stations in the care of their grateful
husbands, and the beautiful yacht steamed on slowly
and carefully among the rocks and reefs of the lovely
Samoan island group. The views as they approached
and coasted among them where enchanting. Fragrant
perfumes where wafted from their shores. Magnificent
mountains were seen rising 4,000 feet high in the
midst of beautiful green hills, partially clothed with
forest, interspersed here and there with gray rock in
grand outlines. The welcome given to the yacht and
■ her company at Apia, alike by Europeans and natives,
was kindness itself — and fully justified Cooper's description
of the Samoan s, in his capital book on the
Coral Islands," as " docile, truthful, hospitable,
courteous and very lively " (vol. ii., p. 14). When the
meaning and object of the visit, both immediate and
prospective, was fully made known and comprehended,
great rejoicing, extending speedily over half the
island, ensued. The women in Samoa, like those in
Tonga, nearly all wear Wreaths of flowers about them,
and a petticoat reaching to the knees. " You once
told me," said Stella, " that a visitor to both these
groups of islands declared that the women have ' the
most beautiful eyes in the world,' with which opinion

I entirely agree," and she actually objected to
"Wilfrid's making one exception, which he forbore to
particularize, when a deputation of these graceful and
affectionate children of Nature visited her a day or
two after the landing. Then came preparations for the
wedding, which were on a magnificent scale. The
bridesmaids were attired in the height of fashion —
i.e., in the most lovely floral wreaths that could be
procured, until they seemed themselves to be only
the most graceful of flowering shrubs, with the added
human charm of their loving liquid eyes and merry
smiles. Triumphal arches, and a profusion of floral
decorations, everywhere betokened the general welcome
and joy. Captain Head and the young surgeon
were the "best men," and the bridesmaids were too
numerous to reckon. The wedding was attended by
all the rank and fashion of Apia, as well as of the
rural districts for miles round, headed by the English
Consul and his wife (an agreeable woman, by the bye,
in whom Stella soon saw she would always find a
friend and counsellor). The native chiefs and their
women vied with each other in bringing offerings of
affection and honour — some of them curious enough —
sucking pigs to wit. Much bunting from the yacht,
and other vessels in the harbour, was displayed,
sand the gallant chief mate of the Silver Star, heading
a procession of the crew, cheering lustily, with a
grand flower-star in his cap, and his happy little
wife by his side, proudly bore aloft the Union Jack.
An inspiring scratch band played " See the Conquering

Hero comes," as the bridegroom arrived on the
ground, and *' God Save the Queen " when the wedding
was over. They could not quite compass
Mendelssohn. Sumptuous banquets (grateful to vegetarians,
all except the sucking pig) were given in
every direction — excessive Kava - drinking being
omitted by particular desire. Jackoo the monkey,
Johnny, and his brother were all made happy with
cakes, fruit, and the care of the puppies ; while the
frisky and affectionate canine parents revelled in no
end of little pigs' bones.

As for the principal performers in the drama —
The bridegroom, with his fine features and flashing
eyes, looked the very picture," Mr. Rivers wrote
home (in language worthy of the Special Correspondent
of a London daily paper), '' the very picture of
a painter's dream of a Christian poet — while the
bride — ah, let no one attempt to describe her loveliness
or the enchanting mixture of sprightly wit,
grace, and womanly soft sweet charms, which almost
brought tears of joy to the eyes that looked on them !
The silver diamond star that had once flashed its
glories on London ball-rooms, shone resplendent on
her forehead. * Can a maid forget her ornaments
or a bride her attire ? ' Well — ' he that hath the
bride is the bridegroom ' ; but my short acquaintance
with Wilfrid Dayrell enables me to 'rejoice
greatly ' in his joy. For I can see that he is worthy
of this peerless woman's love." The young clergyman's
enthusiastic letter was sent on to Mrs. Darrell

and Mrs. Grey, and this heart-felt generous testimony
and charming descriptions carried joy to many hearts.
The bride certainly had not forgotten her attire, but
had taken special care to choose it in London and
bring it safely to Samoa for that memorable occasion,
merely, as she said, because she wished to set a good
example. Neither did she seem to laye forgotten all
her old playful sauciness, for she whispered to her
espoused husband, as they stood together, waiting to
add their signatures to Mr. Rivers' book, after the conclusion
of the ceremony —

Do you remember, Wilfrid, what you said to me
once when you lay on your couch in the garden at
Hurstleigh Manor ? I must try and recollect it now,
to enable me to behave with due decorum."

What was it, dearest ? " asked Dayrell, gazing
tenderly, yet suspiciously in her face.

Oh, nothing particular," she replied, blushing,
and adding softly, " Only that Love hallows all
things — and therefore I suppose among other things
this ridiculous institution of marriage." Then her
bright eyes flashed so merrily as she raised them
again to her husband's face, that when he lifted her
veil, and gave his bride the first kiss of their married
life, it was given so heartily that she whispered again
" Ah, then I see you will forgive my naughtiness,
stern lord and master. If I didn't give yet, you
know, to a little of my old pertness, I fear I should
begin crying — before all this august assembly's am
so very happy — or if I didn't do that I should want

to get up on this stool and preach to them my profound
conviction that a true marriage, born of deep
enduring love, is just the grandest symbol on earth
of the infinite love of our Father in heaven. But
you'll do all this preaching for me, very soon, now — at
least, as far as your limited abilities permit — won't
you, dear ? "

God in heaven help me — and may He bless you,
my darling," said Dayrell, " for loving me, in spite
of my preaching."

And you," replied the bride, " for asking me to
be your own particular wife, which I never should
have been if you hadn't lived and preached so convincingly."


* if * *

A few days after the wedding, Mr. Elvers, according
to arrangement, embarked on board the yacht,
and visited various mission stations in Polynesia to
make himself acquainted with the nature of the work
which he and Mr. Dayrell had to do among the
natives of those charming regions ; and in due time he
brought back a valuable written report for their future
guidance, which confirmed them both in the advisability,
1st of beginning their operations in Upolu,
and 2nd of bringing all available resources of civilization
to aid in judicious efforts to secure far greater
blessings for the natives than even the highest
benefits of that civilization, and without which those
benefits would surely breed corruption and decay.

*' Besides," said Dayrell, when conversing with one

or two earnest missionaries, " is it not true that we
must do people good in a way they can understand,
before they will generally let you do them good ina
far higher way, the value of which they do not
comprehend ? "Win their love and gratitude, fill
their hearts with affection and joy, and they will
then receive from us the glad tidings of the Gospel
and enter into its far higher joy. I learned that much
first of all from an older and a better man than
myself, and he learned it, as I have since found, from
One who healed the sick, and fed the hungry, and
raised the dead in Palestine long ago ; and you,
brothers, know how nobly your great predecessor in
the South Seas, John Williams, of Erromanga, and
many a devoted missionary since, have acted with
conspicuous success on the same Christian principle"'

*' Our brother speaks wisely and to the purpose,*
was the comment of the brethren on Daniell's remarks.
So they worked together with concordant
wills, and among other good deeds the missionaries
helped their new friend in what he found at first a
troublesome business, viz., to learn the Samoan tongue.
With their and his wife's help, however, he made
rapid progress.

So after Mr. Rivers had returned in the yacht
from his cruise and had settled down to his work
under Mr. Dayrell's guidance among the inhabitants
of Upolu, and after the wedded pair had spent a
few weeks of unimaginable happiness in that lovely
abode, they set sail for England under the guidance

of Captain Head and Benbow, and rejoiced the hearts
of all who loved them there. It was a very happy
time for all concerned. Indeed Mrs. Frederic Eldership
declared she hadn't seen " Fred look so calmly
joyful since their own honeymoon. But then," she
added, " he has spent many evenings, when he ought
to have been at home amusing me, in attending
meetings at clubs, and introducing their District
visitors and Tract distributors to his friends at the
West End ; till I began to think the world was turned
topsy-turvy. But he said he wanted to meet my
brother with a good conscience, and in peace."

Of course there were delightful reunions, both at
Hm^stleigh Manor and the Priory, at which places the
visitors from Polynesia spent several weeks, and made
many villagers' and other folks' hearts, young and old,
sing for joy.

Wilfrid and Stella were highly gratified with the
pains which Ellerslie and Mrs. Dayrell had also taken
to carry out their wishes as to allotments, co-operative
farming, and village industries generally.

But Dayrell was far from satisfied, or induced, by
what he saw, to think he had better give up his
*' South Sea bubble " and stay in England.

These industrial villages," he said, " and this
revival of village handicrafts are capital things, and
they will form an admirable stop-gap, or rather
a beautiful bridge to conduct the old world over
to the new and brighter world we shall hope to
prepare beyond the seas. But there are. dozens of

good men and women who will wisely and lovingly
help to do the work of social regeneration in this
way here for one that will get the Coral isles ready
to receive our English race out there. And you
know, Fred, it must come to that emigration at last,
and we shall be ready for them none too soon by
beginning now."

Lady Stella was well pleased in her secret heart that
such was her husband's conviction and resolve, though
it naturally somewhat saddened his and her friends.

It need scarcely be said that she and Wilfrid went
down to Shadwell at the first opportunity, ]Privately
revealing her true name ; and that, in consequence,
many young dressmakers with the much-esteemed lady
superintendent of the Co-operative Association were not
only lost in astonishment, but were sharers in the bride
and bridegroom's joy at all they saw there. Arrangements
were made for bringing out to Samoa a selected
few, some merely for the sea-voyage and recruiting
their health on the island; others for a longer or
shorter residence, as circumstances and their inclinations
might determine. Those who were engaged to
be married and wished to settle in Polynesia were
to be accompanied by their sweethearts if the latter
were worthy and capable, and were gladdened by the
offer of a free passage. Musical gifts and graces were
a great recommendation. Stella had a good piano and
several concertinas put on board the yacht, with sewing
machines and abundance of gay and useful materials
for adorning the persons or winning the hearts of the

daughters of Samoa. Dayrell selected no end of
tools, books, drawing and painting materials, declared
his intention of opening a school of art in
Apia, and of once again applying himself to the
use of the brush. For it had so happened that he
had never been able to bring himself to handle
that instrument since he painted the picture which
had brought an unknown and nameless artist overwhelming
renown and turned once more towards him
the heart of a beautiful witch. His first effort, by
the bye, when he returned to Upolu, and set up
his easel under the new and altered conditions, was
a singularly beautiful composition taken from a
sketch of the shore and reef, the palm-groves and
cliffs of his island-prison. The rays of the morning
sun were just lighting up the ** emerald curves" of
the ocean waves as they broke over the reef and threw
up their clouds of dazzling spray, beyond which
lay a fairy-like yacht, with a long silver worked
pennon floating on the breeze. A young man and
maiden stood hand in hand on the shore.

"Wilfrid," said his wife, "that picture is all my
fancy painted — nearly perfect. But it must have some
doggerel attached."

Eight," replied the artist, " you begin, and we'll
do the lines alternately, to show we are in harmony
and ' Happy though married ' — at least, so far. Pray
proceed." And she did, thus : —

In the morning, in the dawning
Of a bright and blessed day,

Hearts once sundered,
As they blundered
On their thorny, heavenly way,

Now in loving union blended,
All their strife and sorrow ended,
^Vho can doubt 'tis good to quarrel
(Pray accept this as our ' moral ')
"When such sweet results ensue ?

Not Perfection but Endeavour,
Brings on Earth the joys of Heaven —
Love forgives, and is forgiven —
God will five to all their due.

?sir. and Lady Stella Dayrell's return to Samoa
was welcomed with great joy.

One eyeninor when they were conversing: with
Mr. Rivers after their evening meal of pine-apples,
limes, oranges, and wheat-cakes — as to the steps to betaken
for carrying on their work most effectually,
Stella remarked rather abruptly :

Don't you think, mr. Eiyers, that missionaries,
and indeed clergymen generally, laye too often made
a sad mistake in directing their efforts chiefly to
preparing men for what they call salvation in another
world, instead of helping them to cause the kingdom
of Grod to come, and His will to be done, on ecirth
as it is in heaven ? "

Could my father's son think otherwise ? " replied
mr. Eivers, with a deprecating smile.

"Ah, I thought we should agree on that point,
though sons don't always learn their whither's wisdom'*

But then, Lady Stella, please to note that I
don't think the kingdom of God will come on earth
VOL. m. 51

in all its true blessedness and power mainly by means
of improved machinery and technical instruction —
or even by virtue of the three K's, or University education
— no, not even by the magic influence of Music
and Art*'

Eight ! " exclaimed Dayrell, and " Eight ! " echoed
the lady with animation. "My wife and I have long
agreed that we have to go a good deal deeper than all
that if we want to get any permanent and increasing
good for man on earth, even in such enchanting scenes
and climate as this. But do you fully see, Mr. Elvers,
what conclusions Lady Stella would draw from these
premises on which we are so delightfully agreed ? "

Enlighten me," said Mr. Elvers.

She thinks — we both think — that the labours of
all Christian ministers, whether missionaries, ordained
clergymen or devout laymen, but especially
of missionaries (to whom a new chance is given, a
new world opened), should be mainly directed to
embodying the two great commandments in all the
individual, family, social and political relations of
life. Of course you have to begin by awakening
people, especially young people, to faith and piety
towards Grod, love and loyalty to Christ — but after
that, and as a consequence of that, we have to
cherish *Love, joy, peace,' in their hearts, and
homes, their social life — "

Yes, I know," said Mr. Elvers. " Show me
how to do this, and I'll be eternally grateful. Weare
wholly at one in principle."

So they took counsel together; and the result was
that they and their coadjutors, both natives and
Europeans, laboured to draw the inhabitants generally
into a society which they described as a branch of
the Church of Christ, and then worked hard to
help them all to attain true not spurious refinement
of thought and manner — to gain any improvements
needful or useful in their material surroundings
— to create articles of utility and beauty for
home consumption and for commerce. During this
last visit to England Dayrell had been thoroughly
instructed in the history and mystery of Co-operation
as initiated by the Rochdale Pioneers and
since developed so magnificently by English workingmen
in all parts of the kingdom. So he gradually
expounded its benefits and blessings to the simple
natives of Samoa; and all their economic arrangements
by degrees were based on that grand principle
of brotherly and mutual helpfulness. He found that
the Samoans (as Cooper's " Coral Islands " had led
him to expect) could manufacture beautiful mats, and
that the women of Apia make lovely fans. These
accomplishments prepared them for mastering other
arts and manufactures which they took to with great
delight. A certain portion of each day was devoted
to these industries, another part to the exercises of
reading, writing, arithmetic, to learning the mysteries
of astronomy, geography, science in its varied forms —
and then the latter part of the day to music, recitations,
dancing and other artistic or athletic exercises

51—2

suitable for the Bacchantic cult of Health and Gladness.
Morning commenced and evening closed with
simple fervent worship of a higher character, and on
one evening in the week as well as on Sundays, besides
devotional exercises, there was a little preaching as
plain and simple as it was affectionate, earnest, and
devout.

By these means Mr. Elvers, Wilfrid Dayrell, and
Lady Stella found they were doing something, however
imperfectly, to realize the dream of the Oriel
Student, and his descendant, in the new and
beautiful world where they had settled, far from the
turbid desolate wastes called European City life.
They cultivated that much-talked-of and immortal
worship of Joy by developing among their disciples a
love and desire for all things pure and beautiful,
lovely, and of good report " — by awakening them to the
culture of Beauty in the true and highest sense of
Order, Harmony and Taste. Beyond and above this
reaching, they especially aimed at unfolding in their
pupils' hearts the spirit of Christian Love, so that
they should aim rather to bring joy to others than
to grasp at it for themselves — seeking for it in a
spirit of loving gratitude to the Fountain and
Giver of all joy and all good. Thus — and thus only
they would be " glad — in the Lord."

Then each was encouraged to use his or her special
gifts and powers, whatever they might be, for the
benefit of each and of all. This principle pervading
all their labours, among other blessings resulted in

that friendly co-operation, instead of hostile competition
just referred to, in generous ministering to
each other's welfare, instead of selfish craving for
personal aggrandisement or applause. Dayrell and his
wife never sought to break up, but on the contrary
to deepen, the foundations of the home, with all the
institutions of family life, and of private property — to
bind all the members of their Christian community in
brotherly helpfulness, as well as in purity, and love. It
was on the whole a very happy and well-ordered community,
wherein amid a few inevitable errors, disappointments,
and faults many of the worst evils of the
old civilization were avoided, and good progress made
towards the realization of the kingdom of Grod on
earth. But it was, and could be, only progress — not
completion. And as Dayrell said at the close of his
address one Sunday evening to a hushed audience
of more than a thousand persons, listening with
close attention in the calm serenity of the hour,
amid the lovely scenery and balmy air of the island,
We have very much, dear friends, for which to be
thankful, but perhaps most of all for this — that as
Christians we know that the brightest joys and
sweetest happiness of earth are but a foretaste of that
beauty and joy, of that holiness and love, which our
Heavenly Father's and our dear Saviour's love, have
provided for us in Heaven." When the speaker
ceased, even the women as well as the men declared
they could hardly tell which they listened to with
most delight, Its preaching or his wife's singing.

When Dayrell heard of that doubt, of course he declared
it was a greater compliment to his preaching
than he thought it possible he could ever receive —
especially," remarked his wife, " as preaching in a
foreign tongue, somewhat limits one's eloquence."

One more visit made by Dayrell and his wife to
the old country must be mentioned, because in the
course of it Daniell addressed a large meeting in
London of persons interested in Social reforms, and
two smaller ones at Oxford and Cambridge. The one
held at Oxford in the rooms of the Union was deeply
interesting both to him and Lady Stella from their
associations with Oriel College and all the memories
connected with Wilfrid's grandfather. To be speaking
in that noble city and to Oriel and " 'Varsity "
men on the " New Atlantis " and the Worship of Joy in
Polynesia, was in truth almost a sacramental service
for the descendant of that " Modern Bacchanal " unto
whom, he has told us, he felt that he owed more than
he could ever express or repay — more than to any other
human being. But he well knew, also, that it was to
the London meeting he must chiefly look for practical
results and effectual promotion of the views he desired
to urge. For it was the men and women
living in and near London who best knew the vastness
and reality of the terrible evils against which
he was earnestly contending, and who possessed the
material as well as moral means for counteracting
them. Hence he secured the attendance of a considerable
number of representative men and women

of the industrial classes in London, as well as of the
moneyed and comfortable folks. Ellerslie, who was
now a Q.C. and an M.P., got him a capital chairman, a
leading philanthropic M.P., who was in himself a host.

Dayrell's stirring appeal was based on the reality
of those evils, and on the mass of misery and vice
resulting from causes generated by the condition of
things inseparable from vast cities, and the progress
of a civilization, and growth of population, which outstrips
the influences of Christianity. Then he contrasted
that condition with the state and circumstances
of uncivilized life in the lovely regions of the
South Pacific.

Look," he said, " at the innumerable wants
which have to be satisfied in this climate if you
are to enjoy any bodily comfort — at the amount
and variety of clothing and food, for instance, which
you need — at the large and complicated structures
required for your dwellings, your vast machinery for
water supply, and drainage, for cleaning your streets,
repairing your ways, protecting the lives and property
of your people. . . . Look at the amount
of disease and dirt caused by all your contrivances
for securing artificial heat, and light, from smoke,
and soot, from gas, and fire, for protection against
rain and snow and their consequences, from zymotic
disease, infectious fevers, &c., largely the results of
unhealthy dwellings, and crowded rooms. . . .
But you have a Day of Kest — at least an immense proportion
of your population believe that Grod intended

one day in seven should be so observed — all of you
know that it is required — that we are better in
body and soul for having it. But what is a London
Sunday, or a Manchester, Liverpool, Glasgow Sunday?
Is it, can it be a Day of Eest for the
hundreds of thousands of men, women, and children,
wildly struggling by means of rail, tramcar, steamboat
to get a breath of fresh air, a momentary sight
of green fields — or a rest-day for the thousands who
have to toil in their service ? Let me earnestly
entreat you to observe how much of all these evils,
of the wear and tear, the waste and worry of life,
would be avoided if you were living in healthily-situated
well-planned and well-ordered villages even
in this country — still more if you were dwelling
in such villages where the exquisite climate, and the
wonderful bounties of Nature, as in the land
where I have lately been dwelling, make three-fourths
of all that labour and worry wholly unnecessary.

As to health, how many of you know not what it
means ? What with your high living and stimulating
drinks, your late hours and ill-ventilated rooms, in spite
of all the improvements in medicine and safe-guards
of science, you are constantly blessing only the doctors,
cursing your families and yourselves. While as for the
poor ! God help them ! For their livelihood from day
to day depends on their health, and how many of
them and their children are dying by inches, filling
your workhouses, and crowding your hospitals, because
of the state of your towns, your climate, and your hearts.

Then again, consider the harassing toil and
wear and tear of body and mind caused hy your
complicated system of mercantile life — of your
systems of credit, and investment, of vast manufactories
and innumerable middle-men — your immense
bodies of employers and employed, working on anything
but friendly and mutually satisfactory terms
your Stock Exchange — your wild gambling speculations
and innumerable devices for extracting
money from those who have it for the gain of those
who have it not — your tremendous competition
and clashing interests, and destructive selfish antagonisms.
See how lai-rely all this miserable
scrambling for the means of luxury, comfort, or
bare existence, with the shameful dishonesty, greed,
and cruelty that accompany it, is both caused and
promoted by the nature of your climate, by the
unnatural and frantic tendency to vast aggregations
of human beings in small spaces, and by the impossibility
of fairly coping with various evils (to be
found in all human societies and institutions), ivhen
those coTYimiunities are allowed to assume such
monstrous and gigantic propositions. Then again,
observe to how great an extent the vice and crime
which curse these huge cities, the miserable hordes
that constitute what are rightly termed the " Dangerous
Classes," yet not so dangerous to others as
themselves, are augmented — nay, how largely they
are caused — by the wretched conditions under
which the rest of society is living, and the all-pervading

curse of selfishness it ^o often engenders.
One of your greatest miseries and dangers is directly
created by intemperance ; but remember how largely
that vice is caused and cherished by the very
scramble for existence, and the unhealthy conditions
of life, as well as by the absence of rational
amusement and sport, all which again in turn is intensified
by that very intemperance. Equally and
most lamentably true is this of the darker and
more deadly sin of profligacy and open or secret
sensual vice. . . .

We know too well that these evils have their
origin, or their ready welcome, in human nature,
and that no change of outward circumstances can
wholly remedy or prevent the mischief they cause.
But we also know that the evils are greatly aggravated,
and the power of grappling with them,
lamentably lessened, by your crowded slums, and your
cheerless lives — by the mode in which you, English
people, are now living, as well as by the climate and
surroundings of your homes.

Now suffer me to ask you, with all solemnity and
earnestness, why should this state of things continue
? Why should millions of your race continue
to live, crowded, crushed together in such a little
spot as London or Liverpool, or England itself for that
matter, with its cruel winds and horrible fogs, its
frost and rain — with all its inhospitable conditions for
obtaining the means of living, and all the heavy
burdens which centuries of misgovernment, oppression,

and mistakes have bound on your backs — with
every yard of land appropriated or claimed, and the
very stores of mineral wealth placed below the
surface by a gracious Providence for the benefit of
all (for " He is no respecter of persons "), seized and
held by a few private individuals for their exclusive
gain, through the operation of an antiquated law
passed by the holders of land, long before the
existence of such wealth was dreamed of? Is not
*' the world before you, where to choose *' — with innumerable
fair and sunny isles, fertile plains, lovely
valleys, and magnificent mountain sides, all inviting
you to come and dwell among them in peace and
freedom, in the discharge of all social and Christian
duties, in the performance of only reasonable toil,
and in the enjoyment of most rational recreation
and rest ?

When the great Chaldean patriarch found that
the land where he and his nephew fed their flocks
and herds was too narrow for them both, he said :
Let there be no strife between us, for we be
brethren. Choose you the place where you desire
to dwell, and I will then go apart and choose mine.'
Are we, in this nineteenth century after the manifestation
of our Lord on earth, so much less
Christian and such far greater fools than the father
of the Hebrew race ? . . .

Fellow-countrymen and friends, let me pray you
to consider how large a portion of your present
burdens and troubles you bring on yourselves by the

absurd and artificial wants you try to satisfy, by
the ridiculous as well as cruel and inhuman system
under which you choose to live. One third, at
least, of the labour and sorrow you have to undergo
is caused by your climate ; and from all that you
would be released by living elsewhere, in some of the
innumerable pleasant spots prepared for you on
this globe by a loving Heavenly Father. Another
third of your toil and heavy cares is caused partly
by the inhumanity of the strong towards the weak,
partly by the vanity, the striving and greed, the
irritable tempers, the self-indulgence and selfishness,
the unbridled passions, or the cruel indifference
which would be gradually swept away, in healthier
and more Christian communities, by the power of
Christian love and the Spirit of Grod if we would
but give ourselves the chance, and bow to their
mighty influence. See to what an extent the
political system under which you and your fathers
have lived, on which the laws and most of your
social and economic arrangements have been framed,
causes the sorrows and privations under which more
than half this nation groans. Can you for a
moment seriously believe that it is Good's will or
desire that a favoured few of His children should
live in singular luxury and ease, while millions are
wearing away their lives in severest toil and hardships,
or in wasting anxiety and strife — that
fabulous wealth should exist and increase side by
side with masses of poverty, wretchedness, and

disease ? Is it the will of the Creator or the
selfishness and ignorance, the greed, the indifference,
and indolence of man that causes the unequal distribution
of Divine gifts, the conflicts between
Capital and Labour, the crowded unwholesome state
of your large towns, while your fields and your
villages are half-deserted? Does He desire this
frantic rush for fancied profitable speculations, and
these long periods of depression which mean harassing
anxiety and privation, not only for all who have
capital engaged in manufactures, commerce, and
trade, but also pinching poverty, destitution, disease,
and often lingering death for the poor toilers who
are dependent on the capitalists for daily bread ?
Amid all this striving, suffering, and wrong, all this
weary struggle for mere existence, for the means
of living, what room is there for the ends of life,
for any true life at all ? Incomparably higher,
nobler, more blessed is the state of the sailor
perishing in the storm after doing his duty bravely
to the last, or the soldier dying of his wounds on
the battlefield where he fought for freedom ; nay, of
the martyr on his way to the burning pile or to
death upon the cross, than the life-in-death of
millions who this day have been thronging your
marts and lounging in luxurious homes and clubs,
or seeking in vain for employment, and now are
pining for bread ! . . . .

Was it for such an existence as this that our
fathers fought, suffered, died — for this that evil

tyrants have been conquered, and brutal violence
been checked, and religion cultivated and endowed,
and education diffused far and wide ? Was it for
such results as were exposed in that * Bitter Cry,'
and in descriptions of ' Horrible London ' — or in the
revelations of a Royal Commission, that this land was
stored with untold treasures of coal and iron and all
sorts of mineral wealth — that fair and fertile fields
were spread with fruitful soil, that the sun was set in
the heavens, and the rain made to descend on the
earth ? . . . Why even in that department of
national life which is so sure a test of the real
worth and happiness, of the dignity and moral status
of a people and of individuals — I mean their recreations
and play — look at the degradation and * shrinkage
' which this English people are suffering. There
has indeed been progress, improvement in that department,
so far as cruel and brutal sports have
been for the most part suppressed. But are we to
be satisfied with the miserable frivolity and empty-headed
mirth or prurient sensuality, with the joyless
selfish gambling, or dreary loafing, or debasing
tippling, which constitute the only relaxation of
millions of your people, especially during the darker
half of the year ? Compare the amusements, the
recreation of the great bulk of the nation with what
they are in some refined and exceptional homes,
with what they once were in the ' golden prime '
of many another nation, with what they "night be
now if men were but wise and just, honest, tern-operate

and kind. Even your manly games and sports
are becoming a passionate striving for mastery, and
your battues and deer-forests are a byword among
civilized nations. Mark also, bow, year by year, workingmen
and their families living in your great towns
that ' they Tiiay he near their u'ork,' as well as
bandy and within call when wanted by competitive
employers, have f ml her and further to plod their
weary way before they can reach green fields and
hear the birds sing, and be refreshed, purified by
the wholesome health-giving influences of Nature.
See how year by year it is more difficult for your young
men and children of any class, except the highest,
to find space for athletic sport and cheery games —
aye, even in rural districts for there village greens and
breezy commons have been enclosed, robbed from
the poor, without scruple or remorse. And then,
alas, and then — reflect on the enormous waste of
time, energy, happiness, mental improvement and
growth, caused by all your fierce political and party
struggles, by all the weary strife in noble efforts to
remove and remedy these evils and wrongs, or by
base and shameful struggles to defend and perpetuate
them I . to keep the yoke of oppression on
the neck of a Sister Land. ' Half the time of the
wise,' said a great writer, ' is spent in remedying the
errors of the good.'

And there, there, across the seas, in the lovely and
fertile islands of the vast Pacific, you might begin
a new and happier national life, free from the

heaviest burdens that afflict you here. Oh, why
should you not " take the wings of the morning, flee
away and be at rest ! "

Yet I pray you do not for one moment imagine
that I suppose we could flee to any spot on earth where
we would be free from all difficulties or trials. Still
less do I think it would be well if we could. I do
not urge this change of home as an escape from
hardships and toil. I know well the value of such
toil and hardships in shaping the character of a
people, and the miserable consequences which have
resulted both to communities and individuals when
they have been lapped in luxury, sunk in selfish
security and ease, enervated by a godless prosperity,
and degraded by the indolence, and sensuality
which inevitably ensue. We have reason to thank
God that he placed our Scandinavian, Saxon, Norman,
and English forefathers on an island, in a climate, like
this, where they had to ' endure hardness,' to strive,
suffer and die for all the blessings of civilization, of
political freedom, of commercial and colonial expansion,
which we, through their toil and pain, have long
enjoyed. It was needful that our Anglo-saxon race
should pass through those periods of suffering and
strife to train them and us to manly vigour and
noble endeavour, to habits of valour, fortitude, enterprize,
brotherly co-operation and sympathy. But
when the lessons thus taught have been acquired,
may there not be a brighter destiny in fairer climes
legitimately awaiting us, where national and personal

life shall not indeed be free from all toil, sorrow or
pain, but where it shall be rescued from so much that
now corrupts and destroys it — where it may expand
and grow in beautiful proportions, in joy and triumph,
such as is impossible to be attained in these old and
dolorous realms ? As the Christian disciple is taught
to trust in the pure and happy heavenly home
awaiting those who have learned the lessons and
formed the character and cherished the faith which
is the essential preparation for the blessed rest and
peace of that higher world, for * the Eest which remaineth
for the people of Grod,' so may it not be
right and intended for us mortals that after a nation
has passed through its period of discipline and trial
under inclement skies and in the midst of strife,
there is reserved for it a happier, sweeter, nobler
Hfe in some healthier, lovelier, more peaceful clime
on earth ? I cannot doubt it, friends.

' To doubt would be disloyalty,
To falter would be sin.'

The only doubt is, whether as a nation we are yet
fitted for so blessed a change. For assuredly we
could not profit by it unless we had won the virtues
of self-denial, brotherly love, filial piety, trust in a
self-sacrificing King, without which Grod Himself could
not give us happiness and peace in the G-arden of Eden
on earth or in the Heavenly Home beyond the grave.

"And yet in this nation, as in many another beneath
the sun, there are and must be many who are
well prepared for the change for which I now plead —
VOL. m. 52

who would take with them to any land whither they
might emigrate, the virtue, the religion, the love,
the energy and strength which would not only ensure
their own happiness, but would, under Grod,
secure it for those who now inhabit the more favoured
regions of earth, as well as for those who might remove
thither under their guidance.

I may not be a true prophet — or, if I were, I maybe
as one ' crying in the wilderness,' with none to
heed me . . . But of this I feel assured — that
I have a message to deliver. It has been given
me by wiser and better men than myself — by those,
also, who, though less wise, are more innocent and
happier than most of you — I mean the natives of
Samoa — and, as I believe, by One who is the only
wise and good God over all. May I not pray you
—aye, and this great nation of ours, if it would
but give me just a little heed, to take warning intime.
Look at the state of your manufactures, your
commerce and trade, of your great agricultural interest.
Why, you have had a practical monopoly for
years of the markets of the world. You are losing
it rapidly. No class of human beings in this world,
or for so long a period, have had a lot so enviable
in all the luxury and power which rank and wealth
could give them as your landed gentry and aristocracy.
What have they done or given in return ?
The enterprizing energetic inventors, manufacturers,
merchants of Grreat Britain have, indeed, conferred
vast benefits on the whole community, toiling and

saving while others, both upper and working classes,
were loafing, dancing, hunting, or drinking— but how
many of them have remembered the rights and forgotten
the duties of property ? How many have equitably
shared their wealth with the toilers who enabled
them to gain it ? See now the condition to which they
are all being rapidly reduced.

Look again at your enormous National Debt, and
consider that the time may come when the toiling,
poverty-stricken masses of the kingdom will be taught
to say, ' We are not answerable for this cruel burden.
Let the descendants of those who incurred the debt
by senseless and wicked wars, and those who hold
the land and mineral wealth of the kingdom pay
it. Long ago it should have been cleared off by
the enormous wealth derived from the mineral property
of the soil and the increment of value of land.
We shake off the dust of our feet against you, and
depart to a land where we shall find more justice
and fair play than we can meet with here.' Mark —
I am not now saying it would be right or wrong
for the labouring men of this land to speak thus —
only that it is morally certain that a time may,
perhaps must, sooner or later, come, if you do not mend
your ways, when they will quote the solemn words of a
greater prophet than any living man, and exclaim :
'Gro to now, ye rich men! Weep and howl for
your miseries that shall come upon you. Your
riches are corrupted and your garments are moth-eaten
. . . Behold the hire of the labourers

who have reaped down your fields, which is of you
kept back by fraud, crieth : and the cries of them
who have reaped are entered into the ears of the
Lord of Hosts.' Again, I do not say it would be
right for the manual toilers of this country to quote
those words. I know it would be very wrong if applied
to all rich men and all employers. Grod only knows,
in each individual case, how far those employers
have justly dealt by their employed, and equitably
shared with them the profits of capital and labour
combined. In His own time Grod will take care tolet
us see and know, from the highest to the lowest,
whether we have dealt justly with our brother men.
You, gentlemen of the upper classes, have long been
trying to educate the working men. All honour to
you for your efforts ! My friend, Mr. EUerslie here,
can tell you how to let them, now, educate you.
Warnings are sometimes unjustly mistaken for
threats. This cannot be done in my poor case,
weak and isolated as I stand. For assuredly I amas
devoid of the power as of the intention to bring
on the middle and upper classes of this land the
consequences that I believe in my heart must follow
if some great and beneficent change is not ere long
made in the condition of the industrial masses of
this country, and in the relations of capital and
labour, of poverty and wealth. Those consequences
may be sad and awful. It is well that persons of
property should realize the fact. But oh, the pity
of it! if a change be wrought out not by a sense of

justice and humanity, — not by the influences of
brotherly kindness and Christian love, but by the
stern compulsion of the avenging Nemesis — by the
retribution which * commends the poisoned chalice
to our own lips,' and forces us at length to understand
that ' Grod is not mocked ; that whatsoever a
man soweth that shall he also reap.'

Friends and fellow-countrymen, while I yet stand
face to face with you, for one brief moment more
ere I return to the land beyond the seas, or pass
away to a world yet more remote, let me pray you
to remember, and practically to translate your remembrance
into beneficent action, that the Creator
of all good, the Father in heaven, has intended the
gifts of His bounty for all on earth who are prepared
to receive them, has meant that the worship of
Joy, and the 'Blessed Life,' the attainment and
enjoyment of all that is Good and Beautiful and
True shall be won by strenuous effort and patient
toil, by noble self-denial and a spiritual mind, by
a rock-founded Faith and an upward-soaring Hope ;
and, above all, by the glorious joy of self-sacrificing
Love."

The speaker ceased, and the vast assemblage
cheered him to the echo, and, with the usual votes
of thanks and with the distinguished chairman's congratulations,
the end of that act came, and reporters
rushed away in cabs, and the audience went their
way — grateful and hopeful or sceptical and indignant
and Lady Stella's cup of happiness was full.

Fred EllersliCj who had been loudly charged, appeared
to be in a state of mingled emotions, yet, on the whole,
with a chastened delight predominant, which, rather
unsuccessfully, he endeavoured to conceal. Since that
first visit of the East-enters to his father's house in
Eccleston Square, he had conscientiously gone in fora
course of instruction at divers London Working
Men's Clubs, taking some of his friends, now and then,
with him. He had associated (as much as a daily
increasing professional practice, conjugal attentions,,
and latterly Parliamentary duties, permitted), with the
able and high-hearted altruists of Toynbee Hall, and
Oxford House (Retinal Green) ; and had recently
gained a prize offered by the London clubs to be
competed for by members of the aristocracy and the
Universities, for the best Essay on Socialism. Hence
he could doubtless now have taken a degree in any
working-class tripos of social and political wisdom ;
and felt proportionately grateful to his hard-handed
and long-headed teachers, a lot of whom had come to
the meeting. His only comment to Dayrell, however,
on the speech he had just heard there was, " I'm glad
my father was not here to-night — but I'm very glad
you were."

In due course Dayrell and wife took leave, not
without pain and shedding of tears, of their friends
in the old country, and returned once more to other
friends scarcely less dear in their new and beautiful
island home.

After a time many from the old country followed,.

both men, women and children, artisans, seamstresses,
labourers, all rejoicing greatly to escape from the
foetid, crowded, wrangling slums and unhealthy factories
of a corrupt and cruel civilization. x\s great
efforts were made both to select wisely those who were
helped or invited to the new abodes, and to bring all
healthy, refining, restraining, gladdening and elevating
influences to bear on those who came and those who
received them, a reasonable amount of success was
accomplished in realizing the great objects for which
Dayrell and his untiring help-meet had settled and
laboured in the beautiful islands *^ set in the sapphire
seas." If they were ever unreasonable in their expectations,
they were by degrees reminded of the
patience of Grod, of the gradual evolution of good
out of evil by which His Laws and Plans are distinguished
— especially of the need of patience and trust in
their own souls, and not merely of sympathy, devotion,
and love. But a Divine blessing was on their work,
and a holy Spirit brooded over it and the workers,
so that their work plainly prospered, and many hearts
rejoiced, and their "joy no man could take from
them." Bright, beautiful children grew up in Wilfrid
and Stella's home, and were the joy and the treasure
of their hearts, and the delight of the natives and
settlers. But their parent's love for them never dimmed
the affection and loving care with which those parents
had regarded the poor little sufferers whom Dayrell
had rescued one Christmas Day from death, and brought
on their way to an eternal life.

Thus " toiling, rejoicing," they and most of those
around them lived and worked on happily, peacefully,
with such measure of " ups and downs " as
are good for imperfect mortals. Like other human
beings in former and modern days, they and their
attached friends, disciples, fellow-colonists " did eat,
and drank, they bought, they sold, they planted,
they builded, they married and were given in
marriage " — but the Flood did not " come and
destroy them all." For they did these things, for
the most part, in godly reverence and Christian
love, thanks to the faithful care of the shepherds
of the flock, and the watchful love of the Chief
Shepherd, and the presence of Him, the Father of
all, who is the Rewarder of those that diligently
seek Him. But though the flood did not come,
Death did — to each in turn ; which, perhaps, was
not very surprising, though what followed death
often was. For, among other things, their works
followed them — whether they had been good, or
evil, or worthless " Nehushtan," old brass, and
tinkling cymbal — and they had not always reckoned
on this. Some fancied that when they went out
of this present world, the door would be shut behind
them, and that they would hear no more of
that world, or of their doings in it. But it is believed
that they found this was a mistake. So that the
humble and loving were often considerably surprised,
and had great joy ; while the proud, covetous, envious,
and selfish felt great anger and yet more astonishment,

mingled with some " weeping and gnashing
of teeth."

About all which Wilfrid Dayrell, when growing old,
and once again very lonely but for the presence of the
Unseen," on looking over his written experiences on
the Island of Worship, and meditating more on the
Future than the Past (as his betrothed many years
before had told him he would), found he had something
to say about what happens after death — whether
in the body or out of it he knew not — but he said it.
And though it is not recorded in these pages, some
day, perhaps, it may be found elsewhere — in this world
or the next — for after all at one time or another of our
individual and national existence, it is needful that
we should look ahead and be " saved by Hope," as
well as warned by Fear — that we should lift up our
eyes and look beyond this brief span of mortal life, and
remember that it is but the beginning — the preparation
for outer darkness and remorse, or for the Sabbath,
for the Eest," and Peace, the Love and Joy which
remaineth for the people of Grod."

THE END.

VOL. m. 53

THE SHEPHERD'S DREAM:

A DRAMATIC ROMANCE.

Crown Svo. JPriee 3s. Gala

DRAMATIC ROMANCE.

Price 3s. Otl.

"A remarkable dramatic story of mediaeval Florence, on the
Philip Van Artevelde type, . . . full of manly vigour and
feeling." — Guardian.

*' ' Gonzaga di Capon ' displays a considerable poetic power
and a skilful development of a story. . . . There is good
writing and a sound moral tone in this tragedy." — Daily News.

'* The subject has been faithfully studied ; much thought and
experience is brought to its illustration ; personal character is
clearly marked ; and a genuine dramatic feeling has shaped and
penetrated the work. . . . The scenes between Gonzaga and
Ricci — the latter a true woman, nobly conceived — are the best
in the boo-t — fullest of life and passion, and finely contrasting the
egotism of the love of an ambitious and self-centred nature with
the free out-flow of the inwardly deep and pure affection of a
virtuous and spiritual-natured woman." — Nonconformist.

There are some noble passages in this play, and the author's
style is characterized by fine sensibilities, by pure natural taste
highly cultivated, and by a deep sense of the majestic, the beautiful,
and the good. The leading character is portrayed with great
power." — Morning Post.

GERALD AND HIS FRIEND THE DOCTOR.

WITH AX Introductory NOTICE BY LORD LYTTELTON.
C'i'oivn Svo. Price Gs.

Its style rises here and there, by force of earnest and passionate
sympathy with virtue or the sorrows of humanity, to a high degree
of pure natural eloquence. . . . What seems to us not less
true and admirable, in his. moralist's point of view, is the mode in
which Gerald at length cures himself of this haunting groundless
fear. . . . The reader will observe that Mr. Solly has
invented a perfect original conception, and he has worked it outwith
great dramatic force. . . . The author's purpose, if we
do not mistake it, in here resorting to fiction for a lesson of moral
and social duty appeals more directly to the conscience of women
. . . It is therefore to the mothers and sisters and those
who are to be the wives of our young men — men driven by this
fierce and continual tempest of disorderly passions to the wreck
of true honour and of manly purity, as well as of Christian faith,
that the author would appeal for a sign, tacitly given with all
due regard to modesty and feminine delicacy, in favour of the
principles of virtue. It is because he has a message to utter, and
the courage and force to utter it before the world — because that
message is one which the world of Euo-lish society is bound to

'• Mr, Solly's purpose was to exhibit the lives of yomig men as
they really are, and to show in plain colours the vices to which
they are addicted from want of the habit of self-control, and from
the absence of a pure and religious sense of the relationship which
ought to exist between the sexes." — Daily Xeics.

*■' , . . . It abounds with admirable sentiments, manly
thoughts, and excellent opinions . It is, on the face of
it, noble and high-toned." — Literary World.

'• A thoroughly readable and captivating novel. . . . The
didactic portions are so necessary to the progress of the story, and
so eloquently written, that even the mere novel-reader is sure to
be enticed into a perusal. . It covers delicate ground, but
the task is delicately done. It is a most thrilling narrative." —
Newcastle Chronicle.

This story is exciting, but not sensational. Its aims are to
teach a moral without sermonizing; to be interesting, but not
frivolous ; and to show both the light and dark sides of human
nature, without exaggerating the one, or rushing into a frenzy
about the other. Mr. Solly has been successful in all these, and
the result is a clever, good, and interesting novel, which ought to
be a constant companion of all who wish themselves better in
heart and soul than they know they are now." — South London
Press.

THE DOCTRINE OF ATONEMENT.

Price 3s.

WARD & DO WHEY'S

CATALOGUE OF

tien Supplications

12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN, W.C.

THE MEMOIRS OF AN ARABIAN PRINCESS. An

Auto biography. Crown 8vo. 6s.

~ 'Jbaus. w. b. d.

THE HEALING ART : a History of Medicine
and Medical Celebrities from the Earliest Times to the
Present Day. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. 25s.

Arnold, EEV. F.
ROBERTSON OF BRIGHTON : with some Notes of
His Times and His Contemporaries. Post 8vo. 9s.

BEAUFORT, B. LEDOS DE.
THE ABBE LISZT : the Story of His Life. Crown

8yo. With Three Portraits. 6s.

BROGUE, DUG DE.
THE PERSONAL RECOLLECTIONS OF THE

DUG DE Broglie. Edited by E. L. de Beaufort. 2 vols.
Demy 8vo. With a Portrait on Steel. sos.

^~ DAUNT, W. J. ONE ILL.

Eighty-five YEARS OF IRISH HISTORY

(1800-1885), 2 vols. Crown 8vo. 21s.
*;^* A New Edition, with additional matter, in one vol., price 6s.,
is now ready,

FITZGERALD, PERCY.
THE LIFE AND TIMES OF JOHN WILKES.

vols. 21s.

ELLIOTT, FRANCES.
OLD COURT LIFE IN FRANCE. Royal 8vo.

With Twenty whole-pace en<iravinfr«. 7s. 6d.

Frost THOMAS.
RECOLLECTIONS OF A COUNTRY Journalist.
New Edition. 6s.

THE IRISH IN AUSTRALIA. DemySvo. 10s. Gd.

KhOPOTKIXE, PRINCE. ^

IN RUSSIAN AND FHENCII PRISONS. Large
post 8vo. With a Plan of the Fortress of St. Peter and St.
Paul. 7s. 6d.

MOLTJIY, J. FITZGERALD.
COURT LIFE BELOW STAIRS ; or, London inter

the Four Georges. 2 vols. Crown 8vo. 12s.
FAMOUS PLAYS, from Congreve's " Love for Love,"

to Lytton " Lady of Lyons." Large Post Svo, 10s. 6d.
ROYALTY Restore) : or, London under Charles II.

2 vols. Large crown Svo. With Twelve Portraits. 25s.
*,* A New and Cheaper Edition of " Royalty Restored," in

one vol., price 6s., is now ready.

Legge, ALFRED O.
THE Unpopular KING: The Life and Times of
Richard Il 2 vols. Demy 8va. With Sixteen Illustrations.
sos.

(rCOXNOH, T. p.
GLADSTONE'S HOUSE OF COMMONS. Demy

8vo. 12s 6d.
The PARNELL MOVEMENT. 26th thousand.

Paper cover, Is. Cloth, 2p.

O'SHEA, John AUGUSTUS.

AN IRONBOUND CITY : Five Months of Peril and

and Privation in Besieged Paris. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

LEAVES FROM THE LIFE OF A SPECIAL

CORRESPONDENT. 2 vols. Crown Svo. 21s.
ROMANTIC SPAIN: a Record of Personal Experiences.
2 vols. Crown Svo. 21s.

Rabble, FELIX.
THE LIFE AND WORK OF PERCY B. SHELLEY.

2 vols. 21s. [Just ready.

VERDI, MILAN, AND '' OTHELLO." With Eighteen

RnnSEVETT, Blanche.
Plan, AND 'othello." ^

Illustrations. Imp. 16rao. Gilt top. 7s. 6d.

Said, GEORGE.
THE LIFE AND LETTERS OF GEORGE SAND :

with a Biographical Sketch by R. L. de Beaufort. 3 vols.
Demy Svo. 36s.

SMITH, GEORGE Barrett.
VICTOR HUGO : His Life and Work. Crown Svo.
With an Engraved Portrait of Hugo. 6s.

'* STEPXIAKr
Russia UNDER THE Tears. Crown 8vo. 6s.

Strauss, G. L. M.
THE EMPEROR WILLIAM: The Story of a Great

King and a Good Man. Crown 8vo. 6s.

WALL, A. H.
FIFTY YEARS OF A GOOD QUEEN'S REIGN.

Imp. 16mo. With Six portraits. 3s. 6d. Gilt edges. 4s. 6d.

Wool, MADAM JANKA.
FRANCOIS LISZT : Recollections of a Compatriot.

Ci-own 8vo. 6s.

EDUCATION.

Been, S. P.
THE CANDIDATE'S LATIN GRAMMAR. Crown

8vo. 3s. 6d.

ESSAYS.

ARNOLD, REV. F.
Three-cornered ESSAYS. Crown 8vo. 8s. 6d.

Buchanan, ROBERT.
A LOOK ROUND LITERATURE. Crown 8vo. 6s.

DOW LING, RICHARD.
IGNORANT ESSAYS. Second Edition. Foolscap

8vo. Bevelled boards. 5s.

DUNPHIE, CHARLES J.
THE CHAMELEON. Crown 8vo. 6s.

MOULTON, LOUISE CHANDLER.
OURSELVES AND OUR NEIGHBOURS: Short

Chats on Social Topics. Foolscap 8vo. 3s. 6d.

WALKER, THOMAS.
THE ORIGINAL. Crown 8vo. 38. 6d.

FICTION.

AUTHOR CF 'for LOVE And Honour
AN Adventuress. 2 vols. 21s.

AUTHOR OF "MEHALAH."
LITTLE Turenne. Is.

AUTHOR OF 'molly Bawl."
MARVEL. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.
A MENTAL STRUGGLE. 6s.
A MAIDEN ALL FORLORN. 2s.
Lady Walworth's Diamonds. is.
HER WEEK'S AMUSEMENT. 2s.
A MODERN CIRCE. Three vols. 31s. 6d.

AIDE, Hamilton.
PASSAGES FROM THE LIFE OF A LADY. 3s. 6d.

Allen, F. M.
THROUGH GREEN GLASSES. With Numerous Illustrations
by M. Fitzgerald. 6s.

Appleton, O. W.
A TERRIBLE LEGACY. 6s.
JACK Allons FRIENDS. 3s. 6d.
FROZEN HEARTS. 3s. 6d.
CATCHING A TARTAR. \ln the Press.

BARRETT, Frank.
LIEUTENANT BARNABAS. 3s. 6d.
HIS HELPMATE. 6s.

HON h ST Davie. 2s.
JOHN FORD. Two vols. 12s.
FOUND GUILTY. Three vols. 3l8. 6d.
THE GREAT Hester. Is.
FOLLY MORRISON. 2s.

Belgrade, DALRYMPLE J.
LUCK AT THE DIAMOND FIELDS. 6s.

BETHAM-EDWARD^, M.
THE FLOWER OF DOOM. 2s.

BIDDLE-cape, THE MARQUIS.
MAD. 6s.

BLIXKHOOTAEr
A TOBY LORDLING. Three vols. 31s. 6d.

Cameron, MRS. H. Loveth.
A LIFERS MISTAKE. 3s. 6d.

CAFISTOXE, S.
LOVE, THE CONQUEROR. Three vols. 31s. 6d.

COLLINS, MABEL.
THE Prettiest WOMAN IN WARSAW. 2s.
LORD VANECOURT's DAUGHl ER. Three vols. 31s. 6d.
IN THE FLOWER OF HER YOUTH. 2s. [In the press.

CHOKER, B. M.
A BIRD OF PASSAGE. 6s.
PROPER PRIDE. 2s.
PRETTY MISS NEVILLE. 2s.

Neville, J. D.
CANON LUCIFER. 2s

BOWLING, RICHARD.
MIRACLE GOLD. 3 vols. 31s. 6d. [In the Pass.

THE SKELETON KEY. Is.
UNDER ST. PAUL'S. 2s.
THE DUKE'S SWEETHEART. 2s.
TEMPEST DRIVEN. 6s.
FATAL BONDS. Three vols. 31s. 6d.

DOWNEY, EDMUND.
A HOUSE OF TEARS. Is.
IN ONE TOWN. 3s. 6d.
ANCHOR WATCH YARNS. 3s. 6d.

FARJEON, B. L.
MISER FAREBROTHER. 3 vols. 31s. 6d. [In March .

A SECRET INHERITANCE. Three vols. 31s. 6d.
THE TRAGEDY OF FEATHERSTONE. Three vols. 31s. 6d.
THE SACRED Suggest. 6s.
GREAT PORTER SQUARE. 2s
IN A SILVER SEA. 2s.
THE HOUSE OF WHITE SHADOWS. 2s.
Grief. 2s.
Polka. Is.

Penn, G. MANVILLE.
ONE MAID'S MISCHIEF. Three vols. 31s. 6d.
THIS MAN'S WIFE. Three vols. 31s. 6d.
MASTER OF THE CEREMONIES. 6s.
IN JEOPARDY. 6s.
DOUBLE CUNNING. 6s.
THE BAG OF DIAMONDS. Is.
THE DARK HOUSE. Is.
EVE AT THE WHEEL. Is.
THE CHAPLAIN'S Chase. 1p.

THE STORY OF ANTHONY GRACE. With Numerous Illustrations
by Gordon Browne. 6s.

Kendall, PERCY
SEX TO THE LAST. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.
SPIDERS AND FLIES. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

Fol, MADAME.
THE LAST STAKE. 2s.

FORRESTER, MRS.
AN IMPECUNIOUS LADY. Is.
YIVX. 2s.

FOTHERGILL, CAROLINE.
A VOICE IX THE WILDERNESS. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.
AN ENTHUSIAST. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

GIBSEY, SOMERVILLE.
JOHN 0' LONDON : a Story of the Days of Roger Bacon. With
Illustrations by M. Fitzgerald. 6s.

THE NEW RIVER : a Romance of the Days of Hugh Myddel-
toD. 3s. 6d.

GIFT, The.
Il LORIMER. 6s.

6^L1^V.Y, J.
THE FOX AND THE GOOSE : a Story of the Currant of
Kildare. 3s. 6d.

GRANT, JAMES.
PLAYING WITH FIRE. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

HARRISON, MRS. Burton.
FOLK AND FAIRY TALES. 6s.

HAUTE, Bred.
SNOWBOUND AT EAGLE'S. 2s.

HILLARY, MAX,
A DEADLY ERRAND. Is.

HOPKINS, Tight.
FOR FREEDOM. 2 vols. 2l8.

HUGO, VICTOR.
THE OUTLAW OF ICELAND. 2s. 6d.

KEENAN, HENRY F.
THE ALIENS. 6s.

KEITH, LESLIE,
THE CHILCOTES. 6s.
UNCLE BOB'S NIECE. 3 vols. Sis. 6d.

KING, Richard ASHE {^^ Basil).
A SHADOWED LIFE. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.
COQUETTE'S CONQUEST. 2s.

LESTER, H. FRANCIS.
UNDER TWO Fig-trees. 3s. 6d.

MACKAY, CHARLES.
THE TWIN SOUL; OR, THE STRANGE ADVENTURES
OF MR. RAMESES. 2 vols. 21s.

MACQUOID, KATHARINE S.
MRS. Rumble's SECRET. Crown 8vo. [In March.
AT THE RED GLOVE. 6s.
LOUISA. 2s.
SIR JAMES APPLEBY. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

MANN, MRS. Firman.
COWARD AND COQUETTE. 3s. 6d.

MARTIN, MRS. HERBERT.
FROM THE SILENT PAST. 2 vols. 21s.
AMOR Vinci. 2 vols. 21s.

MERRY FIELD, FRANK.
MOLLY'S STORY : a Family History. 3 vols. 3l8. 6d.

Molly, J. FITZGERALD.
A MODERN MAGICIAN. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.
THAT VILLAIN ROMEO. 2s.
WHAT HAST THOU DONE ? 2s [In the jyress.

MURRAY, D. CHRISTIE.
A NOVELIST'S NOTE BOOK. 6s.

O'BRIEN, FLTZJAMES.
THE DIAMOND LENS. With a Biographical Sketch of the
Author by William Winter. 3s. 6d.

Oliphant, MRS.
OLIVER'S BRIDE. Is.

PANTON, J. E.
A TANGLED CHAIN. 2 vols. 21s.
LESS THAN KIN. 3s. 6d.

FA XI ON, M. W.
WHERE TEMPESTS BLOW. 3s. 6d.
MISS Lester's GIRLS. 3s. 6d.

Pay, JAMES.
A PRINCE OF THE BLOOD. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

FHILIt's, F. a.
AS IN A LOOKING GLASS. 2?.
THE DEAN AND HIS DAUGHTER. 2s.
JACK AND THREE Fills. 2s.
A LUCKY YOUNG ^YOMAN. 6s.
SOCIAL Vicissitudes. 2?.

PUIIXELL, Thomas.
THE LADY DRUSILLA. 6s.

Liddell, MRS. J. H.
MISS GASCOIGNE. 2s.
THE NUN'S CURSE. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

'' PdTA.''
THE LAD YE Nancy. 2s.
GRETCHEN. 6s.

RUUSEVELT, BLANCHE.
THE COPPER QUEEN. 3 vols. 31s. cri.

RUyclMAX, JAMES.
THE CHEQUERS : BEING THE NATURAL HISTORY OP
A PUBLIC HOUSE. Crown 8vo. 2s.

SMllH, MRS. J. GREGORY.
Atlas : a Story of the Lost Island. 3s. 6d.

THOMAS, AXXJE. ~ ~~

A REIGNING FAVOURITE. 3s. 6d.

TRL.^TRAM, IV. OUT RAM.
A STRANGE AFFAIR. 3 vols. 31s 6d.
COMEDIES FROM A COUNTRY SIDE. 3s. 6d.

Tatler, Sarti,
LOGIE TOWN. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

WARDEN, Florence.
A WOMAN'S FACE. 3 vols. 31s. 6d. [In March.
SCHEHERAZADE: A LONDON NIGHT'S Entertainment.
3 vols. 31s. 6d.
A PRINCE OF DARKNESS. Is.

WEBBER, Byron.
IN LUCK'S WAY. 3s. 6d.

Stall, Willful,
TWO PINCHES OF SNUFF. 3s. 6d.
HER TWO MILLIONS. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.
THE OLD FACT( RY. 2s.
RED Lymington 2s.
RALPH NORBRECKS TRUST. 2s.

HAEFJSOX, MRS. BURTON.
FOLK AND Fairy TALES. Crown 8vo. With 24
whole-page engravings, by Walter Crane. 6s.

STUART-GLENME, J.
Greek FOLK SONGS. With an Essay on " The Science of
Folklore." New Edition.

WILDE, LADY (- SFERANZA ").
ANCIENT LEGENDS, MYSTIC CHARMS AND
SUPERSTITIONS OF IRELAND. With a Chapter on the
Ancient Races of Ireland by Sir William Wilde. 6s.

MILITARY.

DOUGLAS, WILLIAM.
DUELLING DAYS IN THE ARMY. Imp. 16mo.

7s. 6d.

KOETTSCHAU, LIEUT. COL.
THE COMING Mean CO-GERM An WAR. Translated
by .John Hill. Large post 8vo. 7s. 6d.

POETRY.

ADAMS, W. DAVENPORT.
SONGS FROM THE NOVELISTS. Foolscap 4to.

Printed in Brown ink on hand-made Paper. 7s. 6d.

HAMILTON, EDWIN.
THE MODERATE MAN, AND OTHER Humorous
POEMS. With numerous illustrations by Harry
Fairness. [In the pr-.^s.

MURRAY, D. CHRISTIE.
A BUNCH OF WILDFLOWERS. [In the press.

THEOLOGY.

ARNOLD, REV. F.
ROBERTSON OF BRIGHTON. Post 8vo. 9s.

COLLINS, MABEL.
THROUGH THE GATES OF GOLD. A Fragment

of Thought. Foolscap 8vo. White Cloth. Gilt top. 4s. 6d.

CURTIS, GEORGE Tickler.
CREATION OR EVOLUTION ? Demy Svo. 10s. 6d.

WELDON, REV. G. W.
TILLOTSON's SERMONS. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d.

TRAVEL.

BATES, E. Katharine.
A YEAR IN THE Great Republic. 2 vols.

Crown 8vo. 21s.

copy, WILLIAM.
JAPANESE LIFE, LOVE, AND LEGEND. From

the French of Maurice Dubard. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.
DODD, AXXA Bowman.
CATHEDRAL DAYS : A TOUR THROUGH
SOUTHERN ENGLAND. Crown 8vo. With Numerous
illustrations. 6s.

HARDY, IZA DUFF US.
ORANGES AND ALLIGATORS : Sketches of South

Florida Life. Crown Bvo. 5s.

KEAXE, JUHX F.
THREE YEARS OF A WANDERER'S LIFE.

New Edition. 3s. 6d.
SIX MONTHS ON THE HEJAZ. Crown 8vo. 6s.

MISCELLANEOUS.

FROM KITCHEN TO GARRET. A New Work on
Household Management. By Mrs. Paxton. "With Numerous
Illustrations. Crown Svo. 6s.

GRACE AND FOLLY : DANCERS AND DANCING.

Illustrated Wrapper. By Edward Scott. Is.

ECCLESIASTICAL ENGLISH. By George Washington
Moon. Crown Svo. 3s. 6d.

LIVING PARIS : A Guide to the Manners, Monuments,
and Institutions of the People. Foolscap Bvo. With
Maps and Plans. 6s.

TRAVELS IN THE INTERIOR; OR, THE

WONDERFUL ADVENTURES OF LUKE AND BELINDA.

Edited by a London Physician. Illustrated by HAKUi'

Furnish. Large Crown Svo. Gilt top. 6s.

■^*^ An attempt to teacheth aiiatounj and physiology of the human

body in a novel and en'ertoiniup manner'.

COMMON SENSE IN THE NURSERY. B^

Marion Garland. Crown Svo 2s. 6d,

DISHES AND DRINKS ; OR, PHILOSOPHY IN
THE KITCHEN. By G. L. M. Strauss. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.

ILLUSTRATED BOOKS SUITABLE FOR
PRESENTS OR PRIZES.

THROUGH GREEN GLASSES. By F. M. Allen.
Illustrations by M. Fitzgerald. Cloth gilt. 6s.

THE STORY OF ANTHONY GRACE. By G. Manville

Fenn. Illustrations by Gordon Broke. Cloth gilt,
bevelled boards. 6s.

VERDI, MILAN, AND '' OTHELLO." By Blanche

Roosevelt. With Eighteen whole-page Illustrations. Cloth
gilt. 7s. ed.

AT THE RED GLOVE. By Katharine S. Macquoid.
Illustrations by C. rf. EEiNHiRT. Cloth gilt. 6s.

TRAVELS IN THE INTERIOR; OR, THE Wonderful
ADVENTURES OF LUKE AND BELINDA.
Illustrations by Harry Furnish. Cloth gilt, bevelled boards.

JOHN 0' LONDON : a Story of the Days of Roger
BiiCon. By Somerville Gibxey. Illustrations by M. Fitzgerald.
Cloth giitj bevelled boards. 6s.

FOLK AND FAIRY TALES. By Mrs. Burton

Harrison. With twenty-four original whole-page Illustrations
by Walter Crane. 2nd Edition. Crown 8vo. In handsomely
designed cover, gilt edges. 6s.

CATHEDRAL DAYS : a Tour through Southern

England. By Anna Bowman Dodd. With Illustrations from
Sketches and Photographs. 6s.

OLD COURT LIFE IN FRANCE. By Mrs. Frances
Elliott. With twenty-one original whole-page Illustrations
Royal 8vo. 7s. 6d.

FIFTY YEARS OF A GOOD QUEEN'S REIGN.

By A. H. Wall. With sis Portraits. Imp. 16mo. Cloth,
3s. Gd. ; bevelled boards, gilt edges-Ls. 6d.

At all Libraries in Town and Country.

A WOMAN'S FACE. By Florence Warden. 3 vols.

'In April.

FOR FREEDOM. By Tight Hopkins. 2 vols.
MISER FAREBROTHER. By B. L. Farjeon. 3 vols.

'In 31 arch.

A VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS. By Caroline

FOTHERGILL.

MARVEL. By the Author of '' Molly Sawn.'

AN ADVENTURESS. By the Author of '' For Love

and Honour." 2 vols.

MOLLY'S STORY. 3 vols.

UNCLE BOB'S NIECE. By Leslie Keith. 3 vols.

THE NUN'S CURSE. By Mrs. Liddell. 3 vols.

MAD. By the Marquis Biddle-Cope. 6s.

A PRINCE OF THE BLOOD. By James Pain.
3 vols.

HER TWO MILLIONS. By William Stall.
3 vols.

THROUGH GREEN GLASSES. By F. M. Allen.
With Numerous Illustrations by M. Fitzgerald, 63.

THE FOX AND THE GOOSE : a New Sporting
Novel. 3s. 6d.

THE TWIN SOUL : A Psychological Romance.

By Dr. Charles Mackay. 2 vols.

ONE MAID'S MISCHIEF. By G. Manville Fenn.

3 vols.

SIX SHILLING NOVELS.

GRETCHEN. By Rite.

Mad. Bv the Marquis Biddle-Cope.

LUCK AT THE DIAMOND FIELDS. By D. J. Belgrade.

JOHN 0' LONDON. Bv Somerville Gibney.

TBE STORY OF ANTHONY GRACE. Bv G. Manville Fenn

THROUGH GREEN (classes. Bv F. M. Allen.

AT THE RED GLOVE. Bv K. S. Macquoid.

A BIRD OF PASSAGE. By B. M. Croaker.

HIS HELPMATE. Bv Frank Barrett.

A TERRIBLE LEGACY. Bv G. W. Appleton.

THE MASTER OF THE CEREMONIES. By G. Mantle

Fenn.
IN JEOPARDY. By G. Manville Fenn.
DOUBLE CUNNING. By G. Manville Fenn.
THE ALIENS. Bv Henry F. Keenan.
AS IN A Looking GLASS. Bv F. C. Philips.
A LUCKY YOUNG WOMAN. Bv F. C. Philips.
TEMPEST DRIVEN. By Richard Dowling.
A MENTAL STRUGGLE. Bv the Author of " Molly Sawn."
Il LORIMER. Bv The. Gift.
THE SACRED NUGGET. By B. L. Farjeon.
THE CHILCOTES. By Leslie Keith.

THREE-AND-SIXPENNY NOVELS.

PASSAGES FROM THE LIFE OF A LADY. By Hamilton Aide.

IN LUCK'S WAY. Bv Byron Webber.

MISS Lester's GIRLS. Bv M. ^V. Paxton.

Were TEMPESTS BLOW. By M. W. Paxton.

THE DIAMOND LENS. By Fitzjames O'Brien.

THE FOX AND THE Goose : A Story of the Currant of Kildare.

FROZEN HEARTS. Bv G. W\ Appleton.

JACK ALLYN'S FRIENDS. By G. W. Appleton.

LIEUTENANT BARNABAS. Bv F rank Barrett.

TWO Pinches OF SNUFF. Bv William Stall.

THE CONFESSIONS OF A COWARD AND COQUETTE.

Bv the Author of " The Parish of Hilly."
A Lilies's MISTAKE. By Mrs. Lovett Cameron.
IN ONE TOWN. By E. Downey.
ANCHOR WATCH YARNS. By E. Downey.
Atlas. Bv Mrs. J. Gregory Smith.
LESS THAN KIN. Bv J. E. Panton.
A REIGNING FAVOURITE. By Annie Thomas.
THE NEW RIVER. Bv Somerville Gibney.
UNDER TWO FIG TREES. Bv H. Francis Lester.
COMEDIES FROM A COUNTRY SIDE. By W. Outr.^m

Tkistram.

Two-shilling NOVELS.

A LUCKY Young WOMAN. By F. C. Parties.

THb: OLD FACTORY. By William We^tall.

BED Lymington. By William Stall

Ralph NORBRECK's TRUST. By Wm. Stall.

THE CHEQUERS. By James Ruxciman.

CANON LUCIFER. B^. J. D. Neville.

THAT VILLAIN ROMEO. By Fitzgerald Molly.

LOUISA. By K. S. Macquoid.

THE LAD YE Nancy. By •' Rite."

MERE Shaking. Bv J. 'F. Keene.

THE DEAN & HIS DAUGHTER. By F. Philips.

JACK AND THREE Fills. By F.' C. Philips.

AS IN A LOOKING GLASS. By F. C. Philips.

SOCIAL VICISSITUDES. By F. C. Philips.

PROPER PRIDE. Bv B. M. Croeer.

PRETTY MISS NEVILLE. By B. M. Croaker.

MISS GASCOIGNE. By Mrs. Liddell.

THE PRETTIEST WOMAN IN WARSAW. By

Mabel Collins.
A MAIDEN ALL FORLORN. By the Author of

Molly Sawn."

HER WEEK'S AMUSEMENT. By the Author of

Molly Sawn."
A COQUETTE'S CONQUEST. By 'basil."
IN A SILVER SEA. By B. L. Farjeon.
GREAT PORTER SQUARE. By B. L. Farjeon.
THE HOUSE OF WHITE SHADOWS. By B. L.

Faejeon.
Grief. By B. L. Farjeon.
THE LAST STAKE. By Madame Poli.
SNOWBOUND AT EAGLE'S. By Bred Harte.
THE FLOWER OF DOOM. By M. Bentham-Edwards.
VIVA. By Mrs. Forrester.
FOLLY MORRISON. By Frank Barrett.
THE MYSTERY OF Willard. By Richard

DowLiNG. 'ein the press.

THE WEIRD SISTERS. By R. Dowling. [Inthepre.v.
HONEST DAVIE. Bv Frank Barrett.
UNDER ST. PAUI/S. By Richard Dowling.
THE DUKE'S SWEETHEART. By R. Dowling.

AN IMPECUNIOUS LADY. By Mrs. Forrester.
THE GREAT Hester. By Frank Barrett.
A BAG OF DIAMONDS. By G. M. Fenn.
THE DARK HOUSE. By G. M. Fenn.
EVE AT THE WHEEL. By G. M. Fenn.
THE CHAPLAIN'S CRAZE. By G. M. Fenn.
LITTLE Twopenny. By the Author of '* Mehalah."
A HOUSE OF TEARS. By E. Downey.
LADY Walworth's DIAMONDS. By the Author

of " Phyllis*'
A PRINCE OF DARKNESS. By the Author of

The House on the Marsh."
THE SKELETON KEY. By R. Dowling.
Polka. By B. L. Farjeon.
A DEADLY ERRAND. By Max Hillary.
OLIVER'S BRIDE. By Mrs. Oliphant.
EATEN UP. By Eosten.

%* A series of "Half-crown Novels" will be issued
shortly by Messrs. Ward & Downey, comprising: works by
the following Authors : — The Author of " Molly Sawn,"
Frank Barrett, Miss Bentham Edwards, Mrs. Lovett
Cameron, Mabel Collins, Mrs. Croaker, J. D. Neville,
Richard Dowling, B. L. Farjeon, G. M. Fenn, Mrs. Forrester,
BiiET H .RTE, Richard Ashe King, Mrs. Macquoid,
Fitzgerald Molly, F. C. Philips, Mrs. Liddell, " Rite,"
Annie Thomas, William Stall, &o. Each Novel will
be tastefully bound in cloth gilt, and will contain a
frontispiece by some well-known Artist.

^*^ Messrs. Ward & Downey's Illustrated Catalogue
contain Portraits of the Author of " Mehalah^"" the Author
of '•'■ Molly Bawn'"' G. W. Appleton, Frank Barrett, Mrs.
Lovett Cameron., Mabel Collins, Mrs. B. M. Croaker., Richard
Dowling., B. L. Farjeon, George Manville Fenn, Percy
Fitzgerald, Somerville Gihney, James Grant, Victor Hugo,
Bred Harte, Richard Ashe King (" i>'a.<i7"). Mrs. Macquoid,
Fitzgerald Molly, O'Xeill Daunt, T. P. O'Connor, John
Augustus CShea, Mrs. Panton, James Pnyn, F. C. Philips,
Blanche Roosevelt, George Sand, Florence Warden, William
Stall, and Harry Furnish.

Ward & Downey, Publishers, 12, York Street, Covent Garden.

•7
