OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

8&3

Song

I

JAMES WOOD.FOBD,

CARPENTER AND CHARTIST.

gilbert and livingston, printers,
st. John's square.

CARPENTER AND CHARTIST.

BY

HENRY SOLLY,

ATTHOE OF "WOKKXBQ KEH*8 CLUBS A>'D INSTITUTES," " This

Shepherd's Dream," " GONZAGA : A TALE OF FLOEE>"CE,"

ETC.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

2,oitifon :

SAMPSON LOW, Marston, Searle, & PJYIXGTOX,

CROWN BUILDINGS, 1S8, FLEET STREET.
1881.

\ All rights reserved.]

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/jameswoodfordcar01sol

,.1

S^ tc;

INTRODUCTORY LETTER

TO

J. R SEELEY, Mea.,

Regius PROFESSOR OF MODERN HISTORY IN THE UNIVERSITY
OF CAMBRIDGE.

Dear Mr. Seeley,

The following pages, I regret to say, are the
best, or at all events the only answer I can give to a
request you once made me that I should write an historical
sketch of the Chartist movement from my
own personal recollections. Though I cannot offer
you what you asked for, I think " James Woodford "
practically supplies an important part of the historical
links you desire; and I can only hope you and others
will accept them " for better, for worse," though they
may be by no means better but decidedly worse than
you expected.

I am aware that you object to mingling history and
fiction. You urge that, of course, history is of no
use unless so far as we can rely on its accuracy. Butin
the present case I can guarantee the historic truth
of all the portions of Woodford's narrative relating
to public events and public characters. You may
accept them with entire confidence. While as regards
the mingling with history, private biography and
adventures (whether real or fictitious), you will forgive
me for holding to my belief that the additional

vividness and reality thereby given to the facts and
lessons of history, far outweighs the drawback of a
want of absolute accuracy with regard to the private
narrative. But I fully admit that such historic fiction,
or semi-fiction, should be given to the world,
not as a substitute for the regular historic record, but
only as an addition.

Apart, however, from auy slight historical value the
following "recollections " of a Chartist carpenter and
joiner may possess, I think they may have a certain
special value, at the present time, to those persons (a
numerous class) who desire to be of use to the great
industrial classes of this kingdom. For they accurately
describe what various workmen of the past and
present generation think and feel on many important
points vitally affecting the welfare of the whole community.
Without pledging myself as to all the
details of Woodford's personal narrative, I can vouch
for its truth as representing, with complete fidelity,
the views and modes of thought of large numbers of
operatives in regard to those topics ; and I have
reason to know that working men, generally, would
accept it as, on the whole, a thoroughly faithful picture
of what it professes to describe. This is the more
important because the relations of employer and employed,
of " the governing classes " to the lower
strata of society, and even of workmen to one another,
with all matters relating to working men's organizations
— their wants, temptations, hardships, difficulties,
and sins — have, for the most part, hitherto been treated
of by members of the upper classes, or from an upper-class
point of view. Yet it surely is essential for the
general welfare, that social and political questions
should be viewed from the workman's standpoint also.

The lion's remark to aesop, though trite, had a good
deal of force in it, and the sculptured group would,
no doubt, have been differently arranged had the lion
himself been the sculptor. It is high time to recognize
the fact that the views of working men with regard
to what they want, think, and suffer, must be told by
themselves, or by those who have lived among them
and thoroughly understand them. Weekly-wage
artizans (and labourers also, but we are not now concerned
with them,) live under conditions and influences
so peculiar to themselves, that persons in
other ranks of society, as a general rule, are as unable
adequately to understand and describe them as the
most gifted Englishman would be to accurately comprehend
and describe North American Indians, or
the Japanese, without having resided among them.
A remark made some time since by a Lancashire mill-hand
to a number of his mates assembled to consider
certain proposals intended for their benefit, may bean
apology for the part I have taken in this publication
: — " The gentlefolk know nowt about us — 'kept
Solly — he do know summit." Yet if the middle and
governing classes " are to do justly by their working-class
brethren, and promote the true interests of the
whole community, they must, in some way or other,
learn to understand them. The motto of our recent
attempt to promote " The Common Good " by
journalism, you recognized, I think, as a sound one.
Sympathy " does depend " on Knowledge, and
Progress on Light and Love," whatever else may be
needful also.

But there is another and no less important reason
for publishing these recollections of "Jem Woodford's."
Many of the men who struggled forty years ago to

carry " The People's Charter " were among that
noble army of martyrs " who, in various epochs and
countries, have striven, at severe cost, to advance the
social and political condition of the great masses of
the people. They were the pioneers, in evil days and
often under terrible penalties, of those important
reforms, most of which have since been, or shortly
will be, carried into effect amid the applause of
senates, and the triumphant approval alike of Conservatives
and Liberals, of dukes and artizans. 1 The
lessons which their efforts give, both by failure and
success — the example or the warning which the leaders
and their followers in the Chartist agitation bequeath
to their descendants, according to the wisdom or
folly, the self-sacrificing patriotism or grasping greed,
they displayed, — ought not, as yen truly urge, to be
wholly lost or forgotten. Englishmen, to judge by
many recent signs, never needed such lessons more
than at the present day, if England's real honour and
welfare are to be wisely cherished and permanently
maintained.

In your caustic letter, printed in Macmillan's Magazine
(June 1877), 2 you showed how deeply you feel
the importance of diffusing that particular kind of
education which would enable our citizens of every
rank to exercise wisely political power. Foremost in
that education you class (I think most rightly)
historical knowledge, especially a knowledge of recent
history. No man has a better right than yourself to urge
its importance, and not merely on account of your own
historical writings, which, however, I venture to think

1 Note William Lovett's letter in the Appendix. 2 Reprinted
in the Prospectus of" The Workmen's Social and Political Education
League' of which Professor Seeley is the President.

are " a possession for ever." The comparative neglect
of such studies, until very recently, alike in our
schools and universities, has been productive of serious
evils — especially in the sphere of politics. Hence the
incalculable value of your successful efforts to gain
due recognition of the worth of these studies at the
headquarters of our national education (for Oxford is
following the example, in this direction, of Cambridge).
I may r , indeed, myself have ventured to believe that
in giving courses of historical lectures to workingmen,
which are to extend over several sessions, as I
attempted to do at the Artizans' Institute, it is better
to begin with the Roman Republic, with " Alfred the
Great," or " Charlemagne," than with the present
century, because it seems to me we cannot understand
the Present unless we comprehend the Past. I may
have replied to your arguments for a different method
by urging the value of expounding the great fundamental
phenomena and institutions from which our
modern civilization took its rise — or by contending
that experiments in politics which have closed, are
worth more as political lessons than those which are
still uncompleted. But I never doubted the force of
your arguments on behalf of an earnest study, at one
time or other, of the historical phenomena and political
institutions of the present age. And there is certainly
no room to doubt the value of studying the story
of William Lovett's political, social, and educational
aims, with those of his fellow-workers, of what they
did to carry those aims into execution, and of how
they were treated while doing it. His very interesting
autobiography 3 throws much useful light both ons

" The Life and Struggles of William Lovett, in his pursuit of
Bread, Knowledge, and Freedom." Triibner and Co. 1876.

the value of your own aims and on the means you
have recently adopted, by the help of the " Education
League," for promoting political education of the
people through their social and political clubs.

No man, in his day, saw more clearly, or contended
more earnestly, than "William Lovett, that if men are
to be really free citizens of any community, they
must be both honest and educated — not merely honest
as regards not stealing, nor educated simply in the
three R's ; but honest as feeling that the vote
is a solemn trust, and educated by discussion with
thoughtful men of different parties, by reading wise
books, hearing good lectures, and by studying
generally, as far as their opportunities permit, history,
political philosophy, and social economy. No man, in
short, at that time knew better or preached more
strenuously than Lovett, that citizens have duties as
well as rights, and that unless we perform faithfully
and wisely the one, we shall soon lose the other.
Feargus O'Connor was at the opposite point of this
compass.

But another great lesson is taught us all, I think,
by Lovett's career, which he could not so well preach
himself, but which was never more wanted, perhaps,
than at the present day — viz., that men will always
have leaders like themselves, not so much because
they make their leaders (though this is true to a
certain extent), but because they naturally follow
those who resemble themselves on a larger or grander
scale. I suppose we reap what we have sown in that
as in other matters. History, as well as our own experience,
shows us that there are always men of
energy aspiring to lead their fellows, aud that, in proportion,
as the multitude have anything wise or noble

in themselves, they will admire and follow those who
are noble, unselfish, wise, and good. So far as they
allow themselves to be mean, grasping, thoughtless,
self-indulgent, they will inevitably become the
followers, dupes, and possibly tools, of greedy, ambitious,
vain, and selfish men. And will not one main
root of all the mischief thus caused, be found in those
miserable jealousies and shameful backbiting whereof
Woodford speaks so indignantly in his recollections ?
For these are practices to which, unhappily, many
give way who believe themselves to be thoroughly
respectable members of society, but who forget the
Ninth Commandment, and one or two others also, in
their anxiety to undermine a rival, and give themselves,
or their party, a lift to power, whether in
social or political movements.

The Socialists of forty years ago, inspired by an
earnest and most benevolent Reformer, Robert Owen,
believed that the only thing required for the happiness
and perfection of the human race, was a change in
men's outward circumstances. Given suitable surroundings
from infancy to death, and all would
be harmony, peace, and joy. Those surroundings
they expected, apparently, to obtain simply by
improved social conditions, without troubling themselves
much about political reform, and still less about
religious convictions. The history of their movement
has been, to some extent, set forth in an interesting
work by G. J. Holyoake, 4 and we are not concerned
with it in the following pages.

The Chartists of forty years ago, however, said
that the first thing to be done for the salvation of the

" The History of Co-operation," by G. J. Holyoake. Triibner
and Co., London.

state, was to give the whole people a voice in making
the laws they were called on to obey, and that then
all other desirable changes would follow. Many
others believed that if the Charter were passed every
wrong would then be righted, and the wants of every
household supplied. Some worshipped the Charter
as an end in itself. A few, with Lovettat their head,
knowing it was only a means to an end, strove to get
the people so worthily trained and educated that they
would make a wise use of political power when they
should obtain it. Perhaps none of them, not even
Lovett himself, believed that there was much to be
learned from the Tories, or even Whigs, of the day —
believed rather that political truth and wisdom were
to be found exclusively in their own ranks and their
own views. Of course it is not easy for any earnest
man to realize the fact that no sect, party, or individual,
has all the truth on any subject — that each has only
a fragment of that truth, and that each therefore is
necessary to its opponent. Yet is it not the fact
which, at the present time, pre-eminently needs
recognition ? I have dwelt elsewhere, briefly, on this
subject, 5 and have adverted to the " burning questions
" which are sure to come up for solution before
very long, when the nation may be in no peaceful mood
for their discussion. Now it would be great presumption
on my part to attempt offering any answer to
those questions, at all events in a letter to you. But
there is no presumption in endeavouring to learn, or
even to teach, some of the lessons of experience handed
down in history. And of this, I believe, we may be
well assured, that if those questions are urged forward
by any party or its leaders, as Feargus O'Connor

5 " Party Politics and Political Education." Stanford :
Charing Cross.

sought to carry the Charter, or if attempts are made
to smother them by what has been termed " Jingoism "
or "Fireworks" — by appeals, in short, to vulgar
passions and mob violence, instead of to reason and
unselfish patriotism — if either from jealousy, ambition,
self-will, or unworthy fear, the best and wisest men of
any party are driven from its ranks; if newspapers are
bought or bribed for private or corrupt purposes ; if
public meetings are disturbed by noisy antagonists or
rowdy roughs ; if the people place childish and
unreasoning confidence either in newspapers or
personal leaders — if, in short, any party in the true
spirit of O'Connor's coarse but outspoken exclamation
at the Bath meeting (" D n the people's education
! ") 6 succeed in shutting out political light, that
they may do " the works of political darkness," it
requires little foresight, I think, to perceive that a
great and terrible catastrophe is inevitable. Captain
Swing's burning ricks, Newport Insurrections, the
riots of the " Sacred Month," Kennington Common
10th of April gatherings, and Orange-street conspiracies,
may be noted by some future historian as
mere child's play, compared with the troubles in store
for this nation. The men who rouse brute passions,
and violate the rights of public meeting, or gather
excited mobs to compass their private or party ends,
may quasi-valiantly head those mobs like John Frost,
or sneakingly slink out of danger like Feargus
O'Connor ; but, in either case, mischief may be done
in a day which a quarter of a century could not
repair. The forces now at the command both of the
ruling classes and of the toiling multitudes are so
much vaster, the accumulations of property so much
greater, the relations of credit and capital so much
6 Vol. i. p. 147.

more complicated and delicate, that it would be madness
to let the country drift into serious social or
political quarrels concerning the great questions of the
age, instead of using every available means for ensuring
them thoughtful discussion and an equitable settlement,
by means of systematic political education.
True, the Chartist agitation teaches the multitude
(and it will be well for them and for all if they will
learn the lesson) the folly as well as the wickedness
of attempting to accomplish their objects by mob
violence, or any kind of physical force. Yet many of
the honest as well as designing Chartist orators felt
they might, and did, make eloquent appeals to the
people, in the spirit of Campbell's stirring lines : —

Men of England, who inherit

Rights that cost your sires their blood —
Men whose degenerate spirit

Has been proved on land and flood. . . ." &c.

And are we to assert, without qualification, that all
political reformers must in every case be condemned if
they make such appeals to the people ? Is it not true
that there have been periods in the history of this
country when English liberties could only have been
secured at the cost of English blood ? No one knows
it better than yourself. But you would also remind
us that happily in those days the Crown possessed no
large standing armies, and that the people could not
then secure their rights by the ballot-box, by registration,
and political clubs. Should there unhappily
come a time, however, when the great bulk of the
industrial population, whether in cities or fields, found
their reasonable demands persistently refused, and
their unreasonable burdens as perseveringly increased;
found themselves continually out-voted through bribery
and corruption, out-manoeuvred by unscrupulous

stratagems and intrigue, involved in unrighteous
quarrels or unnecessary responsibilities abroad, and
denied all wholesome reforms and equitable progress
at home ; would you or any upright man dare to
condemn them if they died with arms in their hands?
Or, if believing civil war to be hopeless and wrong,
they emigrated en masse to our colonies, carrying with
them the best brain and muscle of our country, and
also (like our Irish brethren) an undying hatred of
England, with Saxon instead of only Celtic bitterness,
to foreign shores ? I think you would say they
deserved honour, at all events, not reproach, for preferring
death or expatriation to the endurance of
tyranny, whether at the hands of a sovereign, of an
aristocracy, or a mob ; for resisting the tyranny of
Caesar or his servile followers, whether Caesar be a
monarch or a prime minister, and the mob be dressed
in broadcloth or rags.

Certainly the true Conservatives are those who
endeavour to promote political education as a means
to the equitable and peaceful settlement of " burning"
or any other questions, and to ensure gradual progress
towards social and political improvement and reform.
Dr. Arnold's admirable words might fitly be inscribed
in letters of gold on the walls of every political club
and debating society, including "St, Stephen's" itself:
" There is nothing so revolutionary, because there
is nothing so unnatural and so convulsive to society as
the strain to keep things fixed, when all the world is,
by the very laws of its creation, in eternal progress,
and the cause of all the evils in the world may be
traced to that natural, but most deadly error of human
indolence and corruption that our business is to preserve
and not to improve. It is the ruin of us all alike —
individuals", schools, and nations."

Hence, as it seems to nie, the need of those social and
political discussions, and for those social and political
lectures, that study of History and Political Economy
to which you allude in your letter on the political
education of the people, and on which I have dwelt
in the pamphlet above referred to. As I have there
said, innumerable political clubs are springing up allover
the country. In the papers of the " Workman's
Education League " we urge the pressing need of
utilizing both them and the Workmen's Social Clubs as
centres of social and political education, not simply as
places for amusement and gossip, or as mere engines
for party fanaticism, bribery, and intrigue. If your
influence (deservedly great as it is, especially at the
headquarters of historical study), and that of the
various able young men trained at your university, and
now lecturing on Prof. Stuart's admirable " University
Extension " scheme, or at the London clubs for our
League," can help on the good work among the
industrial classes, for which Lovett and his brave
coadjutors " spencer and were spent" in times when
social and political education was often a dangerous
cause to advocate, none will have greater reason to be
thankful than those classes which possess the bulk
of the property, education, and religion, of this vast
empire. But for the working classes themselves it is
simply a question of gradual but magnificent progress,
or inevitable political annihilation and social decay.
Believe me,

Dear Mr. Seeley,

Yours, with sincere regard,

HENRY SOLLY.

Addiscombe Grove, Croydon,
May, 1881.

CARPENTER AND CHARTIST.

INTRODUCTORY.

Haying begun life first as plough-boy
on a farm (Farmer Mars den's at Broad-field,
in Essex), and then as a carpenter's
apprentice, while the firm of which I am
now senior partner employs between three
and four hundred men in the building
trade, I have seen a good many sides of
life, and known many people of all sorts
and characters. So I thought I might
have something to tell that would interest
the young folks, the children of my old
shop-mates, as well as some of the old
Chartists themselves, who are still living,
if I could only find how to tell it.

VOL. I. B

But I'm no great hand with my pen,
and I found that the publishers to whom
I took my manuscript when I got it
done at last, thought my style wouldn't
altogether go down with the gentlefolks ;
yet I wanted them also to read it if they
would. So after talking over the matter with
an old friend who has been as much used
to composition as I have to calculations,
I settled to give him leave to polish up my
rough notes and give them the right turn
here and there, and make the whole thing
ship-shape for the public, just as I've seen
the drawing master touch up his pupil's
sketches till they were almost as good as
his own. This is more particularly the
case with regard to all about the women in
these " Recollections," for I don't understand
the sex altogether. Besides, my
friend learnt many more things about their
histories both from themselves and Davie
Eoberts in later life than I ever knew, or
could have known.

But though, as I say, my friend has
polished me up a bit, he's left me rather

rough, still, I fancy, and all I have to say
is that I've done my best, because I
thought some of my recollections might
be useful to a few people, at all events ;
and such as they are, master reader, you
can take them or leave them, as you
happen to choose, and an old man's blessing
go with them, and with you too, if
you like to take it and find you can
keep it.

JAMES Woodward.

b 2

CHAPTER T.

It was a snowy Saturday night, in December,
and we were talking about the
Thatchers, for there had been a row over
there earlier in the evening, and father
had gone across to try and stop it, and
had just come back. I remember mother
saying —

Fifteen years ago, who'd have thought
it 'ud a' come to this ! Why, it was one
of the prettiest little weddings as ever I
see, for I remember a lot of us elder Sunday
school girls went up to church, and
brought her a few flowers. Poor Polly !
she was always a favourite wherever she
went, though she was so pretty — and vain
enough for two."

Aye," said my father, chiming in, " she
were a beauty, and no mistake, and though

I was but a lad, I fancied myself in love
with her, like the rest of us. Do you mind
our coming over from Ockerton, Molly,
that Sunday morning, and bringing those
dog-roses and things ? We all thought ita
fine thing to get married, and looked upto
Tom Thatcher as a confounded lucky
dog. Tom was a good-looking, strapping
young chap at that time, he was."

Yes," said mother, " and I remember
how the kind old vicar (I wish we had one
as good among us now) looked at them
admiring like, and yet a bit sorrowfully, I
thought, as he shook hands, and they went
off to make their mark in the book. He
had seen a good many young couples go
from that altar quite as well looking and
happy ; and some of them hadn't too much
luck afterwards."

Then we all sat quiet, looking into the
fire. Presently says I, " What happened
to them, then? "

"What happened? " said my dad.
Why this happened. The young fellow
had just got a situation of twelve shillings

a week, a cottage, and pickings, as farming-man
up there at the Hall, Squire Fletcher's.
He was a Lunnon banker you know, making
heaps of money in town, and wasting
a bit of it pretty freely, as I could see, in
what they call " hamatoor " farming down
here. Well, Tom Thatcher got the benefit
of it, and he went to work with a will on
the bit o' farm, and she looked after the
cows and poultry, and I often used to
think as I went about the place, what a
nice life of it they had."

But how came you to see so much of
them, then, father ? "

Why, don't you know I was the gentleman's
carpenter, Jemmy, kept on regular
at work all the year round, on the fences,
and carts, and repairs in and out o' doors ?
And I got the place, Master Jemmy, just
afore you were born," said my father,
stroking my head kindly, as if I had been
the cat. Then there was another silence,
till father went on again, rather slowly, —

Poor Polly. But troubles didn't come
all at once. I remember some time afore

I went to the Hall for good, I were doing
a job for my master, and I saw she had
got a bonny little girl in her arms, and
looked as bright and happy as you could
wish." I looked at mother, and gave a
bit of a wink.

That's Maggie," says I, " she comes
to our Sunday School." Mother smiled
but said nothing, and father went on, —

After a time there were more children,
and then there were complaints up at the
Hall about the milk and eos, and. the
young mother was accused of keeping
what she didn't ought to. Then Thatcher
was too fond of the ' Three Blackbirds,' —
but the worst job of all was he and a
lot more of Essex carters QT>t drinking one
day at a ' public ' in Whitechapel, after he
had been selling Squire's hay, and when he
came home the money was short, and he
said he'd been robbed. But the master
was told how Tom had been standing treat,
and then how they got to ' tossing for
pots.' So there was a regular row about
it, and Tom, he'd have had the sack at

once, but Polly goes up to Madam, and
sobbed herself into ' his-strikes,' and promised
it should never happen again. But
somehow after that the Squire was always
very stern with Tom, and seemed to be
always suspecting him like, and Tom
sulked, and his wife was peevish, for the
children came fast, and he was a great
deal more at the ' Three Blackbirds ' than
was good for any of them, except landlord.
He made a good thing of 'em all, he
did. Well, you see, one night, about six
o'clock, it was getting dusk, and I was
just shutting up my workshop in the
coachyard, when I heard such a row in
Thatcher's cottage. He was swearing at
his wife like a costermonger, and she
scolding like twenty cats, and then I heard
a scream, so I ran down and coachman
after me — he was just putting his horses
to — and there lay poor Polly all of a heap,
for the brute had knocked her clean over.
This won't do, Master Tom,' says I, and
we picked the poor woman up, and found
she was more frightened than hurt, though

her eye was blackened. Then Tom wanted
to fight me, bnt coachman wouldn't let us,
and he went out, up the yard, swearing
worse than ever, and as he went up towards
the Hall, not thinking in his cups
what he was about, who should he meet
but young Master Fletcher come to ask
what was the matter, and why the carriage
didn't come round. So Tom, seeing him,
turns sharp round on us, who were just
behind him, gives coachman a nose, which
makes him look like a butcher, and runs
off to the barn. Young master gets all
the story out of coachman in the heat of
the moment, for he was mortal angry, as
was natural, and next day Tom and his
wife got notice to cut, this time for good
and all. I never saw a little chap look so
flabbergasted as poor Master Edward that
night, for he was a kind-hearted, delicate
little fellow, you know, and he was very
fond of poor Polly, and of Tom too, for
that matter. Tom used to put him up on
the cart-horses and take him about the
fields, so he cried like a baby when they

were going. Tom's worked on the roads
ever since. He'll not get another berth
like that in a hurry."

I was very unhappy myself by this time,
for before that night I sometimes thought
my pretty Maggie had got trouble at home,
and it was plain enough now, that the
scrimmage " which had made my father
go over to the Thatchers' an hour or two
before, wasn't the first thing of the kind
there, nor likely to be the last.

When I saw Maggie at Sunday school,
next day, looking so pretty and down-hearted,
and as if she had a world of shame
and trouble to hide, and then heard her in
the choir afterwards singing like an angel,
I said to myself, " Now, Jemmy Woodford,
you see what you've got to do for the rest
of your days. You'll just help Maggie
Thatcher to bear her troubles, and bring
her better days, mind that ! " And so I've
tried my best to do it ever since ; God
knows that.

But not exactly in the way I once
thought it might be. Though, perhaps, it

was all for the best. I couldn't think so,
however, for a long time, and I'm not sure
about it now. I often thought it very
hard, for I knew Maggie first, and, I mayas
well say it outright, I loved her from
that day, with all my heart, though we
were but mere boy and girl ; couldn't help
loving her, and always shall.

Well, there was a lad came to be apprenticed
to father, named Davie Roberts. He
and I took to each other, though he was a
year or so younger than myself. But he
was a bold, daring, venturesome lad, and
yet as tenderhearted as a girl. I got him
to come to Sunday school, for I liked my
teacher, and knew it 'ud do Davie good ;
but he had been knocked about at day
school (and at home too), and when he
found he weren't to be licked at Sunday
school, he gave teachers a deal of trouble.
He seemed to enjoy teasing them, and
didn't get much good, I thought, from
coming ; but years after, I know he looked
back sorrowfully enough to their patient
kindness, and that did him a deal o' good

when he and they were miles apart. Their
teaching wasn't all lost. But at the time,
he only seemed to care about what he
called asserting his independence, and
revenging himself on anybody as taught
him for bad treatment elsewhere. For all
that, he was such a bright, high-spirited
young chap ; all the girls liked him, and I
soon saw Maggie Thatcher thought a good
deal of him.

I fancy he became a sort of hero in her
eyes, because he w r as always getting into
scrapes somewhere, and getting punished
for them. Sometimes she was very angry
with him, but still always admired him,
and was uncommon sad when at last one
Sunday he was declared to be " the saddest
boy in the whole school," and was going
to be expelled. Yet it wasn't wickedness
in him, or I know she'd have hated him.
And I fancy the thought came in her mind
that perhaps she could reform him ; for I
came upon 'em once by a stile, and she
was half crying, and begging him to be a
better lad, and not vex teachers so, and if

he'd promise, she would speak to her own
teacher and try to get him kept on. I
passed on as quick as I could, with merely
a " good night," but I could see his face
was as red as a turkey-cock's comb, and I
suppose he did promise, for though he
never took much to his lessons, either
there-or anywhere else, he was kept on,
and behaved a deal better; and about a
year afterwards, when the Squire and
Parson gave the " School Treat," and the
prizes, — young Davie, he gets a prize for
good behaviour ! Maggie, as usual, got
two or three, and when I saw them in a
corner of the field after tea, showing each
other their books, I guessed how it was all
going. I should laye liked well enough to
show my beautiful books to the pretty little
lass, God bless her ! But it wasn't to be ;
and I tried not to be so mean as to envy
him, for I could see how happy he was.

There was another little lass came to
that school, whom the lads thought a good
deal of, and a prettier, livelier little maid
than Kitty Barber one wouldn't often see.

She was a merry soul, to be sure, at that
time ; always up to fun and mischief, and
making everybody as merry as herself
when they'd let her. We used to call her
Puss-in-Boots," because she used to
come to school one winter in a rare fine pair
of fur-edged boots, of which she was mighty
proud and made a great show of, and her
name being Kitty, it all suited very well.
But though she was so merry and bright,
I wasn't over fond of her, for you see she
was an orphan brought up by an uncle
and aunt, who lived near the Thatchers',
and Maggie Thatcher had always been
uncommon kind to her. I often thought
what a blessing it w r as to Kitty, or might
have been, to have as a friend a girl with
Maggie's good sense and modesty, to keep
her flightiness in check ; and I knew that
many a time Maggie's advice would have
kept poor little " Puss-in-Boots " out of
scrapes; and many's the time, too, when
Maggie's candle was burning at night that
she might mend Kitty's old clothes, or to
get her ready for church and school in her

new finery. So I didn't like to hear
Maggie made fun of and laughed at behind
her back by a girl to whom she had been like
a little mother. Nor I didn't like the sharp
things Kitty would say to Maggie, sometimes
to her face, when Davie and a lot of
us was by, and so make all the other boys
laugh at Maggie. She didn't mean anything
particular unkind, and didn't think
how ungrateful it was to her benefactor.
But there, — Kitty thought a deal of Davie
Roberts, like most of the other girls, and
that made her tongue stinging when she saw
he thought so much of Maggie. I suppose
that's all as it generally is. As for Maggie,
she came down upon Kitty sharp enough,
I fancy, when they were by themselves
after one of these little affairs ; but she
kept on being her friend, and working for
her all the same, and never changed.

Father, coming home latish one night,
told ns he had been kept at the Hall, fixing
a temporary work-bench over a sofa for
young Master Edward, who had met with
an accident at school some days ago,

and had to be brought home in the
carriage.

He is a lively young chap," said my
father.

And as full of funny fancies as an egg
is of meat," added my mother. " Do you
mind his harnessing our little Jem to his
wheelbarrow along with the big Newfoundland
dog, and making 'em tear round the
grounds after dark last winter, with a
penny trumpet and the stable lanthorn ? "

We all laughed, and says I, " He is a
nice young chap, free with his apples and
marbles, and not a bit of pride in him."

But father turned sharp on me, and
says he, quite stern-like, " Jem, how dare
you take things from the young master ?
I won't have my sons cringing to rich folk
for apples or anything else."

But I don't cringe, father ; he will have
me take them, and I never asked him for
nothing in my life, and you shouldn't say
so ! " I added, for my back was up.

Don't answer your father like that, sir,"
said mother.

There was a brother chip, named Bill
Stokes, supping with us that night ; came
to Broadfield to consult father about a job
at the school at Ockerton, where young
Master Fletcher went, and where he was
employed. So to make things pleasant
again, he says, " Ah ! I mind when that
young chap first went to Ockerton School,
my heart sometimes ached for him, among
all those rough lads. For you see he
seemed rather delicate and only used to
women-folk, and there were some precious
young blackguards and bullies in the Doctor's
team. I've seen the tears in his eyes
many a time, but he got laughed out of
all that, and holds his head up now with
the best."

"Aye," said my father, "And I hope
he'll have cried enough over his own little
troubles to have some feeling, when he
grows up, for the big troubles of others.
Poor folk in this land want a word said for
them, now-a-days.

Bully makes bully, we used to say,"
answered our visitor. " But, howsomever.

vol. i. c

I suppose the big folk are beginning to
speak up for the little 'uns. They carried
that 'ere Reform Bill in first-rate style
over the Tories heads and the Duke's
sword ! "

Yes," replied my father, " but I don't
see as it's doing us any good. I've no
need to grumble, but I can't bear to hear
how all the poor folk are suffering in Spital
Fields and down in Leicester and Nottingham,
and all through Lancashire and Yorkshire,
and over in Ireland. Big Dan may
well beat his big drum for ' Regale ' as he
calls it ! I tell you what it is, mate,"
continued my father, knocking the ashes
out of his pipe, " the rich folk don't know
what poor folks feel, and what's more they
don't know how to treat 'em like Christians."


Like Christians ! " echoed our friend.
They don't treat 'em as well as their
dogs and horses, though they do look onus
as some sort of inferior creature."

u I've wondered to hear that nice little
chap, Master Fletcher," said my father,

talking sometimes about his father's servants
and work-people as if they were so
many niggers. Yet he'll be as sociable
and friendly with me as you please when
he comes to handle my tools in the workshop.
It's only bad bringing up, and
hearing his governor talk about the lower
orders, and such like, in that nasty proud
way."

Well, we'll have our innings some
day," chuckled Mr. Stokes, rubbing his
hands cheerfully. " We must keep our
eyes open, and look out for our chance,
Woodford."

So rising, he shook hands and departed,
leaving me in great wonderment as to how
and when "poor folk" were to get their
innings, and who would bowl to them, and
what bats they would use, all which
became plain to me, and a good many
more, in due time.

c 2

CHAPTER II.

Time went on, and I was out of my apprenticeship
; and through father's speaking
for me to Squire Fletcher, I got a
good berth at once in the yard of a friend
of his (a great timber-merchant), down at
Rotherhithe ; and who should come down a
year or two later to live there for a time
but young Master Edward himself. I had
made a few acquaintances, but they were
not worth much, and a deal too fond of
the beer to suit my book. So I was uncommonly
glad when the young gentleman
took to me pretty heartily ; for all
that he was rather proud, and made me
understand there was a difference between
us. But when he did talk and make himself
agreeable — ah, there w r as nothing I
had known like it. Lucky for me he was

very fond of rowing, and it was hardly
safe for him to go on the river there by
himself, because of the lot of steamers
and craft of all kind, up and down every
minute, and the strong tides and the
timber-rafts. So, as I had got handy with
my oar, he used to ask for me to go with
him now and again ; and so we often had
a good pull together. He was uncommonly
plucky, I should say, on the water,
and rare fun it often was. But the way
in which we dodged the steamers sometimes
made my flesh creep a bit, not being
a regular boatman, and Master Edward a
very bad swimmer. Then at night sometimes
he would stand talking with me a
bit on the wharf. He had got to look
after the erection and management of
some new machinery for a patent, and a
mill-wright and one of the engine-fitters
stayed to watch the experiments when the
machinery was ready, sometimes half
through the night ; so they and I used
to have many a chat. They were very
intelligent, steady fellows in the main, and

liked to give me a wrinkle or two that
would do me no barm, not like some of
the chaps in the building trades whom I
used to meet at the " Sawyer's Arms."
Joe Rufford was the name of the engine-fitter
; I can't remember what they called
the other. But though young master was
always very civil to these men, barring his
being nasty sometimes, and expecting
more than they were inclined to give, he
plainly thought they were only a more intelligent
kind of horse or machine of some
sort. But it seemed to me that was what
nearly all the upper-class folk thought in
those days of the " great unwashed," as
I've heard them call us. And if Master
Edward had not known me as a boy,
learnt a little carpentering of me, and
played with me at the Hall, he would not
have been as friendly, I guess, as be was
down at Rotherhithe, and even then when
I had done anything for him that he
wanted, he seemed to forget all about meas
much as if I had been an old shoe.
Not that I wanted a tip, and as for a

srlass ! I should think not indeed. Father
drummed all that out of me. as I -
years before, and made me want to be
always as independent as the gentlefolk
themselves. So I hated to see fellows
sneaking up and touching their hats and
asking for ;i something to drink' whenever
they had done a i : : :-. gentleman.
or, may be, had only been talking to him
a bit. Hot their meanness ! I know how
the gentry despise us for all that sort of
thing. Father, as I said, shook those
notions out of me. But what I mean was
that Edward Fletcher knew a deal more
than I did, and had read a wonderful lot,
and I often wished he'd let me look at
some of the many books he had got there,
and talk to me about them: for I was
fond of reading, but could not often get
hold of a book, and I thought t he was
often rather lonely like, and I used to say
to him in my mind, " Why don't you ask
me up to that room of yours when you're
all alone, and tell me a bit about the tides
and stars, and Canada, and Eebelhon

there, and what the 'Americans are doing
with their Republic, and all that." But I
didn't dare ask him, not even for a book.
Yet he would not have been as proud ashe
was, I am certain, but for the ways
o' thinking of all his class. But I believe
he was a bit selfish with all his pleasant
kindly ways, not caring much for other
folk — I mean for poor folk — he cared a
deal when he saw any of his own set in
trouble. But I did think it rather
strange, when I was took ill there once,
and even the head clerk at the wharf came
to ask after me, and left half-a-crown with
my landlady to get me something nourishing,
Master Edward never came a-nigh me
the whole time. But he had a deal on his
mind, I will say that. The gentleman who
had taken out the patent which Master
Edward was doing his best to work into
shape, was a regular queer customer. He'd
drink brandy and water like a fish, and
come down to the wharf more than half
screwed before dinner, pull off his coat and
work with a will, making the men fly about

till they were half mad, but still keeping
them at it, and knowing just what he
wanted them to do. By Jingo ! he was a
clever customer, with an eye like a hawk.
But he was too clever by half. He'd all
sorts of smart projects and rare notions.
If he could only have stuck to one or two
of them, and made them complete, he
might have been the richest man in
England. But Master - Edward never
could get things to go right, because his
employer, this Mr. Brindley, was never to
be found when wanted ; and the poor
young gentleman fretted himself to fiddle-sticks
in sheer disgust. I've known him
sit out in the shed bv the engine-fire hour

J o

after hour till past midnight, waiting for
Mr. Brindley to come and finish some important
experiments ; and more than once,
when everything was going to the bad for
want of the master, I've rowed him across
the river at 11 or 12 o'clock at night, and
he has tramped up Limehouse Road and
fished the governor out of the back-parlour
of a certain tavern, and brought him down

to the wharf just in time to save the
cookery. But all that wasn't business,
and couldn't last. Young Master made a
fine discovery himself in another line, and
Brindley was regular cock-a-hoop about it,
and told him he'd made their fortunes, and
years afterwards it was proved that if they
had worked on at it, Brindley' s estimate
of its being worth 20,000 1, a year was
under the mark. But what can you do
with a chap that's always boozing ?
Young Master Fletcher, at all events,
couldn't either lead or drive him, fret ashe
might.

Poor fellow ! He had something more
to fret about, I fancied, than not getting a
livelihood. His father could give him
bread and cheese. But I think there was
a young lady in the case, whom he was
desperate fond of, and her folks wouldn't
hear of it, because he had nothing to live
on, and she was very beautiful, I heard,
and many to woo her, and her family held
their heads as high as the Fletchers, or
higher. So he was in a great taking about

the failure of these experiments, and
Brindley' s drinking, and, at last, one day
they came to high words, and I couldn't
help overhearing young Master say in a
towering rage (for the window was open,
and I at work just below), " I wish to God
I had never seen you, Brindley ! " and
then the fellow, who had been drinking
hard as usual, got into such a passion, I
thought I should have had to go to part
them. He swore he'd knock young
Fletcher down, and I don't know what he
wouldn't do ; but the young gentleman
held his own, and as they didn't come to
blows, I stayed outside. Then there was
a low murmuring of voices, and next I
heard Brindley saying he was very sorry,
and he didn't know how much Master
Edward had on his mind, and he mustn't
give way, and they'd manage between
them to make a heap o' money, and he
should win the young lady after all ;
faint heart never won fair lady," and soon,
till my young gentleman looked quite
bright again for a few days. However, it

all came to nothing. After many ups and
downs, he found he could make nothing
of either the new or the old discovery,
clever as they were ; and almost brokenhearted,
I think, he went away; all the
machinery was sold, and Brindley soon
after died of what they call " delirium
tremens"

I was laid up at the time Master Edward
left, and, as I said, he never came to seeme,
which I thought rather hard at the
time, for I cared for him a deal more than
he cared for me, and I didn't consider I
was nothing more to him than his father's
workman, getting my wages every week.
I had never been to college, and had next
to no schooling. My dirty flannel jacket
and corduroys, and paper cap, all helped
to put a great wall between us. I wasn't
a gentleman and had nothing to give him,
and wasn't supposed to know anything he
cared about. So no wonder if he thought
as much about me as I did about my jack-plane,
and a deal less than he did of his
dog. I used to envy that dog sometimes.

But no one could help liking him, he was
so pleasant and high-spirited, and had such
a way with him. After I got a hint about
the young lady, I used to think, Ah, she
may have a many to court her, but if she

We »

knows he's in love with her, I'll be bound
for it, she'd like the experiments to turnup
trumps.

Well, he went his way and I went mine,
and when we met again it was under
rather different circumstances.

But before the whole business down at
the wharf came to an end, I had learned a
deal fresh the mill-wright and engine-fitter
if I didn't learn much from Edward
Fletcher. One had worked in the large
London shops and the other came last from
Birmingham, but he was a Sheffield man.
They both belonged to their Trades' Union,
and showed me many things about wages
and masters I had never thought of before.
Then they were first-rate politicians, and
chatted among themselves about the Reform
Bill and Dan O'Connell, Harry Hunt,
and Joe Hume. They always made me at

"home among them, though they didn't like
my not belonging to a Union, and I never
stood treat. Indeed, for the little I took
altogether, I should have been shown the
door by the landlord, I believe, many a time
if I hadn't been in such good company.
For my friends, though on the whole, as
I said very steady men, thought nothing
of one or two, or even three pots a night,
with extras on Saturdays if they didn't
go home. It's being in lodgings or living
at a public-house plays the deuce with men,
for then they have to make a home of
the " public," and, of course, they're only
welcome there if they drink freely.

Once I had a row with them, soon after
they came (though it was my own fault),
for I had never heard of mill-wrights
before, and says I, one day, in a cocky sort
of manner, " Well, I don't see what right
an engineer has to be working in wood. I
should think you might leave that to us
carpenters ! " and didn't they turn upon
me ! I never heard such language before,
even from Jem Thatcher or at the " Three

Blackbirds." But I wasn't afraid of them,
though once I thought we should have got
to blows, and when they saw I could stand
up for myself, and was only one against
two, they cooled down and showed me how
pattern-making and mill-wrights' wood-carving
were regular engineers' work, and
then I saw how foolish I had been.

Well, I got to understand from their
talk what my father and Mr. Stokes used
to mean in their talk, and I added a few
more notions to my ideas about the working
men and their masters, and the upper
classes : and, says I to myself, " If there's
many thinks as you gentlemen do, there's
trouble in store for somebody, and a
storm's brewing, as sure as Old Nick's
alive." And though I thought they were
sometimes too hard on the masters and the
aristocracy, I believed there was a deal too
much truth in all they said. I began to
read the accounts in the weekly newspapers,
which my gentlemen took in, of
political meetings both in London and the
country, which before I had never troubled

my head about, and I looked at the sad
accounts of distress (which filled columns
of those and other papers) in a light that
hadn't occurred to me before. I couldn't
help feeling that the working classes were
suffering a great deal of injustice, and
that the upper classes, instead of trying to
put an end to their sufferings and wrongs,
were only bent on their own business or
pleasure. But I didn't know then (and
there was nobody to tell me) how much
the whole nation, working men and allowed
to a large number of those upper
classes who had fought the battle of the
people and struggled and suffered for
Reform " in the days of Pitt, Castlereagh,
and Dundas, when it was real
martyrdom in many ways to do so. I've
learnt since there were noblemen, baronets,
Maps., great merchants, manufacturers,
shop-keepers, who were ruined socially,
politically, or actually, who went to prison
or into the Gazette, or were driven out of
the country because they stood up against
the Tory tyrants of the day ; and at last

they got Catholic Emancipation and Repeal
of the Test and Corporation Acts,
and the Reform Bill, and then a many
useful measures. But for all that the
poor were half starving at the time (1837),
and the distress in the manufacturing districts
was often terrible, even to read of.
"What must it have been to bear ?

One day in February, 1837, my friends
told me they were going up to a public
meeting that was to be held at the " Crown
and Anchor " in the Strand, and asked if
I'd like to go with them. I wasn't very
fond of a crowd or a row, and, from what
I heard them saying, I thought there was
like enough to be both. However, I went,
and shall not soon forget it. A new world
had been opened on me by the engineers'
talk at Rotherhithe. Before that time, I
had taken all things as I found them ; the
difference of ranks and of privileges, the
inequalities of fortune and enjoyment, the
pride of the great folk, and the suffering
and intemperance of the poor. I took
them as "laws of nature," not to be

VOL. I. D

dodged or altered. But what they had
said, prepared me to suck down like a fish
all I heard that night. The King had just
died — a new Parliament was being summoned
— the nation was in a ferment.
O'Connell, Roebuck, Oakley, Joe Hume,
Leader, Col. Thompson, Sharman Crawford,
and other leaders of the Radical Party,
who had stood up in the late Parliament
against overwhelming odds on behalf of
the rights of the people, were present, and,
amid vociferous cheering, denounced the
Whig Ministry, with Lord John Russell at
its head, exposed the treachery of the
middle classes towards the working men,
by whose aid they had got the Reform Bill,
and claimed a new reform which should
put an end to the wrongs and sufferings
of the lower classes. Speaker after speaker
eloquently denounced the existing state of
things as a sham and a shame, demanding
immediate redress. I was amazed beyond
telling, and completely carried away by the
enthusiasm of the speakers and the crowd.
But there was one among them who struck

me, when I first saw him on the platform,
as more worth noticing than all the rest,
for I felt sure he was a working man.
When I found from my friends I was right,
and that he was only a journeyman cabinetmaker,
I looked up at him with a sort of
awe and delight. For thinks I, What a
wonderful chap you must be to be sitting
there with all those nobs and famous
speakers, and going to speak yourself, too,
I shouldn't wonder. Sure enough he did
speak, and as well in one sense as the best
of them ; for he knew just what he wanted
and what we working men wanted, and he
went at it in a plain, quiet, but terribly
determined way, that made you feel he'd
hold on like grim death, come what might,
till he got all he asked for. He was a tall
good-looking young fellow with a lot of
long curly brown hair, and all the workmen
round me cheered him till the roof
rano- ao*ain : but there were others of our
class I could see didn't like him so well.
And that's just what I've noticed ever
since. If one working man ever gets
d 2

above his mates and is cheered and clapped,
there are a dozen or two thousand, very
soon out of temper, and running him down
as jealous as monkeys in the Regent's
Park gardens at feeding time — and all of
them thinking they have as good a right ashe
to be put up on a platform, or stuck in
some important office, and be cheered and
buttered and clapped.

What's the young fellow's name ? " I
asked ; " he's a rare good 'un, whoever hebe
;" and then I heard a name which was
pretty well known through England two
or three years afterwards, though as he
was only a working man and a pioneer in
great and noble movements, who made
roads for other men to pass over to victory,
while he seemed only beaten at almost
every point, folks don't know so much
about him now-a-days as about some
general who has won a battle in India.

"Well, who is he?" I asked of my
friend the engine fitter.

Who is he ? " replied Mr. Rufford,
rather slowly, "why, I take it that's

William Lovett, the Cornish lad, and by

I wish there were five hundred like

him.' 5

Tell me all about him," says I.

Can't tell you now, you duffer. Listen
to the speakers and learn a little more
as you ought to know. But come along
after the meeting and have a pint, and
I'll tell you a bit about our Cornish
boy."

CHAPTER III.

Coming out of the meeting quite dazed and
wonder struck, I saw Roebuck, O'Connell,
and others getting into an open carriage
and driving off, with our fellows shouting
and hallooing after them at the top of
their throats, and I too went shouting after
them like mad, when all of a sudden I run
my head against a great blue-coated arm
and the light flashed from my eyes with
the blow, and I felt myself caught hold of
and swung clean round by one of those
raw lobsters they called " Peelers," the
New Police ; and says he, " I say, my fine
fellows, shut up this row and clear the
pavement, will you ? " But the words were
hardly out of his mouth when a powerful
young fellow in a fustian jacket wrenched
his hand off my arm, crying out, " He

wara't saying nothing' to you ! Let 'im bide,
will yer ! " and while the bobby grabbed at
him, saying, " I'll run you in, at all events,"
a whole heap of our chaps flung themselves
on him, and before he could draw his
truncheon, my friend and I were swept
clean away from him.

When I got my breath I saw it was Joe
Eufford that had picked me out of the
"lobster's" 1 claws, and I told him I
thought it was very handsome of him. So
we went off to a " pub " which he recommended,
and I stood treat in the cosy tap-room
corner while he told me a little about
the young Cornish cabinet-maker. As anybody
can now read all about him for themselves
in his own " Autobiography " 2 I
shan't put down here what they can read
better told there. But he was doing then,
and for many a year afterwards, a noble
work for Englishmen, and I shall often

1 The " New Police " used often to be called " raw-lobsters
" in those days, because of the colour of their
uniform.

2 Published by Triibner and Co., Lydgate Hill.

have to mention him, along with others,
before I've done.

So Mr. Rufford went on to tell me
by easy stages, how Lovett was a self-taught
man, and hadn't been brought up to
the cabinet-making, but had pushed himself
into the trade by sheer determination
and using his brains, and how he had
joined discussion-societies and what they
called a Mechanics' Institute, and how he
had helped on a fine move for workingmen,
called the Co-operative Society, and
then how he had been fighting the battle
of the " Unstamped Press," shoulder to
shoulder with those true friends of cheap
knowledge for the people, Hetherington,
Watson, and Cleave, in London, and Abel
Heywood in Manchester, to get the taxes
on newspapers, &c, repealed — in fact how
for the last ten years there had been nothing
going for the good of the people but
what William Lovett had been mixed up
with it, or taken the lead in it. So I said
I thought I should like uncommonly well
to know Mr. Lovett, whereupon Mr.

Rumford laughed at me immensely, and said
I had a good deal of " cheek," and a good
many steps to climb on the ladder before I
could shake hands with a man like that.
Now this daunted me a bit, just when I
was beginning to feel that kind of enthusiasm
for what is better than oneself, which
I've often noticed since is one of the best
feelings a youngster can have. It comes
freely enough in one's youth, but if checked
then doesn't sprout so well afterwards.
It's a fine thing for a young man to know
men whom he can attach himself to, and
honour and look up to.

However, my friend was in a very good
humour that night, from having baulked
the bobbies, and he promised he'd do what
he could to bring me under Lovett's notice,
and just before we separated, he said,
And when he does shake hands with you,
remember you owe it to him that you don't
run a chance of being drawn to serve in
our tyrant's body-guard, that accursed
Militia. William Lovett, and his brave
wife there, let the rascals take his furniture

rather than he should serve in it, because,
as he toll the magistrates, he had no
voice in choosing the persons who made
the laws, and while he was called on by
those laws to protect the rights and property"
of others, his own rights, and his
own poor erty which was his labour, were
not protected. But the whole affair, young
gentleman," said Rufford, as he lit his last
pipe, and I paid the score, " was brought
before Parliament ; think o' that, my boy,
by Henry Hunt and Joseph Hume, and it
made such a shindy that there has been no
drawing for the Militia ever since. So you
see we're got some friends in high places,
and they'll help to haul us up there, too,
by-and-by."

From that time Mr. Rufford was always
very polite and friendly, in fact, as I saw
afterwards, rather too much so, for though
he was a good smart workman, and as
honest as gold, he was a little too fond of
Free and Easier," and worse places than
them ; and if I hadn't been brought up to
be rather shy of the public-house and low

dissipation, and hadn't still had a sort of
hope as to bonnie Meg Thatcher, he might
have taken me a deuced hit astray at that
time. Then he spent his money very
freely; and though no one need want a
glass while he had a tanner left, one good
turn, he said, deserved another, and he
expected all his friends to be equally
generous, whether they had had a pull at
his pot, or whether they hadn't, which
sometimes made it come hard upon me,
with only small wages. But almost all the
journeymen I came across in those days
seemed to be much in the same way as far
as drinking went; and the an out they
spent both from " footings " and " fines "
in the workshop, and when they were
tippling and standing treat at night, tossing
for pots, paying bets, and so on, was
enormous. Some say it's only a little better
now; but I believe there's considerable
improvement.

But my engineer did me many a good
turn in his way. Among other things, I
well remember his coming to me one day

after lie had left Rotherhithe, and saying
the foreman of a large shop in the building
trade near where he worked wanted another
hand, and that I had better come np and
ask for the berth. It was better wages,
and some chance of rising, which I never
could have just working as a jobbing carpenter
at an old timber-yard, down at
Rotherhithe. " But if you get into a shop
like Peto and Grasses's," he added, " you're
sure to get on ; for there are so many
drinking chaps (and it's the cleverest drink
the most), that a steady young cove with a
little brains has got a rare chance." Well,
thinks I, that sounds true enough, and I'd
like to be near an old friend ; so I applied
for the place, and got it, and came to town,
and lodged near where Rufford was living,
out there in Camden Road, where there
were green fields then, not far from
White Conduit House, and Copenhagen
Fields.

They were a nice young couple I lodged
with — Mr. and Mrs. Taylor. I heard of
them through Mrs. Thatcher, who was aunt

to Mrs. Taylor. He kept cows, and she
minded the dairy, and they had two of the
prettiest little children I ever saw. One
night, soon after I came, they were talking
about a young girl as we sat down to
supper ; and the Missus — she says, " Ah,
he'll be a lucky man who gets her to wife."
Yes," says her husband; " she'll make a
rare good wife if she gets the right man,
though I'm afraid she has a hard life of it
at home. She's a mere child still, but
she'll be the comeliest lass, by-and-by, as
ever I saw, present company always excepted."
" And as good as she's pretty,"
says the Missus, simpering, and looking
like a blush rose on a May morning. Well
who should they be talking about, I found,
but her cousin, the girl Maggie Thatcher,
who I thought so much about when she
and I went to Sunday School, at Broad-field.
So I went to bed, wondering if
Davie Roberts was after her still, or whether
I should go down next Sunday to see father
and mother, and ask about her again.
Well ; I did go down, and what I learnt

wasn't quite pleasant, and made my young
couple rather sad when I came back and
told them — but I was a deal more cut up
about it myself than they were — which
was perhaps natural enough. What follows
about my former school-mates, I learnt at
various times, but put it all together now
as advised.

I found father and mother pretty welland
cheerful, except for the rheumatics,
and they seemed uncommon glad to seeme,
for I hadn't been home since Christmas,
and after dinner they told me all they
knew about the Thatchers, and I learnt
something also from a neighbour ; but it
was very little I heard then about Davie
Roberts, or the young master up at the
hall. There was plenty to be learnt, however,
about poor Maggie and her parents ;
for Tom Thatcher would go on just in the
old way ; and one night, Maggie, it seems,
couldn't stand it any longer, and she told
the drunken brute she didn't care what he
did to her (for she had hardly begun to
speak before he up with his fist), but he

shouldn't knock mother about if she could
help it." And then, her mother told me,
she drew herself up (she was but fifteen,
though tall of her age), folded her arms,
and looked the fellow full in the face. Fora
moment, he seemed cowed before her,
but the next minute he cried out that he
wasn't going to be lectured by an impudent
wench," and made a rush at the
brave girl, felling her to the ground at a
blow. Then when his wife screamed, and
was lifting her up, says he to poor Maggie,
"Now, miss, who's a-going to say I shan't
hit that blubbering old fool when she gets
a-nagging me ? " Meg was up on her feet
by this time, but she said her head seemed
going round like a mill wheel, and h er eyes
were all so blinking-like, that she could
scarce see. And then, as his wife was
crying, he bid her hold her row, and when
that only made her sob the more, he was
going to give her what he had just given
poor Meg, when quick as lightning the girl
lifted a wooden chair and struck full smash
upon him. The ruffian went down all of a

heap, and before lie could rise, for he was
nigh stunned, Meg was out in the street
shrieking " Murder ! Help I " I don't
think the cowardly neighbours would have
done anything, for they were used to such
rows, and my father and mother were
living further away than they used to be,
and heard nothing of it. But there was a
new parish constable lately put on in the
village, and as good luck would have it he
was coming by, and thought he'd better
interfere. So he steps up, and Meg goes
back with him, and he asks if she'll give
her father in charge. " No," says she,
I'll not do that to-night. He's got something
to-night he never had before. But
looked here, father," (sand she turned
full on him," said the constable to me, " as
I might turn my bull's-eye on you") " you
may murder me, if you please. I'll do
nothing to save you from the gallows. But
mind — I'll swing for it myself, if knocking
out your brains will save mother from anymore
of your devil's tricks." Thatcher
was sober enough now; and whether it

was that lie saw by the girl's eye and
manner that she was in earnest, or the
sight of the constable, or the effects of the
blow he had got, I can't tell, but from that
time they say, though he's often sulky and
cross as a beast, and there's a deal to put
up with, he's never lifted his hand agen
mother or daughter since; and what's
more, he told one of his mates he thought
he must have been behaving rather badly
at home, somehow, now and then. But he
didn't come to that notion all at once, and
swearing a terrible oath at his daughter
after she had told him what to expect, he
stumbled out of the cottage muttering,
I'll pay you out for this some day, young
woman, as sure as you're born," and began
chopping wood in their garden-shed in the
starlight.

At first when I heard of all this I
trembled like an aspen leaf to think of
what dangers the brave girl was living in.
But I believe, though there was so much
that was brutal in Thatcher when the
drink was in him, there was no malignity

VOL. I. e

in him. When he got sober I think he
couldn't help admiring her pluck and her
love for her mother, and from something
he said to me, I fancy he was wishing
sometimes he could make her love and
respect him, too, a bit. At all events, he
never lifted his hand against either of them
again, nor often against any of his mates, as
far as I could hear. There was some good
in him as well as bad, and, poor fellow, he
had had a great deal to make him go
wrong, and not much to help him go right,
anyways.

Meg's mother now had a quiet time of
it, so to speak, but though the child had
won a great victory, and not a bit too soon,
I don't think the effect on her own mind
was altogether good. There were all the
seeds in her of a sort of Queen Bess, as
the old song speaks of, and that victory,
and the need of constant opposition to her
father, made her afterwards, at times, I
could see, rather cross-grained, and even
a little imperious and domineering. Yet
there was such a world of tenderness and

love in her heart, and when she was happy
(which wasn't often), such a lot of fun and
mischief in her, and she kept on growing
so pretty (prettier and prettier every year)
with her beautiful auburn hair arid bright
blue eyes, that I don't wonder if any fellow
lost his heart to her ten times over. I
know it made mine ache that Sunday to
hear that she and Davie regularly wrote to
each other about once a month, and that
he sent her beautiful verses of his own
making, and paid for her letters as well as
his own. And once when he came home,
the pretty things he brought her, mother
said was a sight of itself. For he was
working somewhere down in Sussex then ;
and earning good wages, which he could
do when he liked. He was one of the
smartest hands for a mere practical joiner
that ever worked at a bench, and be did
like to work now, it seems, with all his
heart. But he had never had regular
training in what they call the theory part
of it, any more than I had, though that
was never thought about in those days.
e 2

UNIVERSITY OF

ILLINOIS MRDADV

So I tramped back to town in the dark,
that Sunday night, and took to working
pretty hard myself, not only in the shop,
but after hours, reading every book I could
buy or borrow, and studying in my poor
way, and trying to understand ways of
doing things at the bench ; for I began to
see there was a right and a wrong way of
doing most things. We had a good sort of
foreman where I worked then, and he took
rather a fancy to me, seeing I tried to get
on, and put me up to some first-rate dodges,
particularly in stair-casing jobs ; but he
said he could have taught me a deal more
if I had only known a little geometry. He
used to swear at the English gentlefolks
(behind the master's back) for not having
poor folk better taught in this country, and
would tell us what fine schools they had in
Scotland, where he came from. He tried
to teach me a little of what he knew, and
lent me his books freely enough. But he
was a good deal bothered with the state of
the times, and all the troubles of the working
classes and the poor ; and was often out

of an evening attending meetings of one
kind or another. But he took me with him
to these sometimes, and of all the good
turns he did me, one of the best was when
he took me one night to a sort of debating
or discussion society, which had grown out
of one Lovett had belonged to years before,
in Gerard Street, Soho. For the talk I
listened to there made me see there were
two sides to most questions, and that one
mustn't be in too great a hurry to decide.
I learned to think a deal more as I sat in
that room, and the next day while my hands
were busy, than ever I had done before.
Besides, it made me read about the matters
I heard discussed ; and as I never dreamed
of attempting to speak myself, I listened to
all sides impartially, and learnt to be more
cautious, I think, than some of my mates,
who were easily led away with a glib tongue
and a lot of flashy talk about things they
didn't understand. I know all this cut two
ways, because sometimes, when I ought to
have gone to the front and taken my part
in some agitation, I found I was hanging

back, and almost deserved to be called a
sneak, because I would look at the question
on all sides, and couldn't make up my mind
which was right. But this didn't often
happen. We working men were much
oftener swept off our legs by a common
enthusiasm in those days and hurried along
with the stream, than in danger of too much
deliberateness and caution. I don't think
the working classes are nearly so enthusiastic
about anything now-a-days, good or
bad, as they were then. But I'm not sure
that's a wholesome sign.

One never-to-be-forgotten day, the 31st
of May, 1837, this worthy man, whose
name was Sandy Kelso, told me in the
dinner-hour he was going to give me a
treat. He knew how I longed to meet
Win. Lovett again and hear him talk, so
he bid me get ready to go with him and
he'd try to smuggle me in at a meeting to
be held that evening at the British Coffee
House, Cockspur Street. It was about
three or four months after that gathering
at the Crown and Anchor ; and I should

think I was mightily pleased at the chance.
So I waited under the statue at Charing
Cross, as Kelso bid me, with my heart
knocking against my ribs, till he came
quietly up and told me to keep close alongside.
It was a sort of feeling of awe with
which I found myself in the crowded room
among a number of working men, and face
to face with eight live members of Parliament.
But the tall Cornishman, I think,
was more to me than all the rest, and from
the corner into which Kelso let me squeeze
myself, I heard, with immense satisfaction,
Wm. Lovett introduce the business of the
meeting according to the resolution of the
"working Men's Association," which had
been formed the year before, ,and of which,
I think, he was Secretary. That Association
aimed at the general improvement,
education, and enfranchisement of the
working classes ; and at the public meeting
I went to in February, at the " Crown and
Anchor," they proposed and carried a petition
to Parliament for " universal suffrage,
annual Parliaments, vote by ballot, payment

of members, no property qualification
for members, and equal electoral
districts." That petition was signed by
about 3000 persons; and Mr. J. A. Roebuck,
M.P., who was then one of the
staunchest Radicals in the House of Commons,
having consented to present it, and
then to move a resolution in favour of
universal suffrage, Lovett and his committee
invited all whom they believed to be
Radical M.p's to come to this meeting in
Cockspur Street, and to say whether they
would support Roebuck. Eight responded
by their presence, and by degrees I found
that they were Joseph Hume, whom I had
been taught to reverence as the incarnation
of incorruptible integrity and patriotism ;
Daniel O'Connell, the wonderful agitator
and Irish "Liberator;" Dr. Bowing,
since Sir John Bowing, a life-long friend
of the people; J. T. Leader, Col. Thompson,
the great pioneer of the Anti-cornea
agitation ; Benjamin Hawes, afterwards
Sir Benjamin ; Wm. Sharman
Crawford, afterwards a leader in the

"complete suffrage " movement; and
Charles Handley. While I was wondering
not a little at a cabinet-maker having the
audacity to address these great men as if
he were their equal, yet quite respectfully,
he requested them in turn to say what they
were willing to do, to put their Radical principles
into practice. But though one after
another spoke, only Sharman Crawford
and Leader appeared to go along with
Lovett and his friends as thoroughly as he
wished, and thereupon he took them to
task in a surprising way. Then O'Connell
got up and fired away at him so fiercely
that at first I thought Lovett would have
had to slink out of the room like a dog
with his tail between his legs, and 1 felt
very uncomfortable for him. But no, by
George ! for as soon as the great orator
sat down, up jumped the leaders of the
Unstamped Press " movement, Wethers
Cleave, Watson, " mighty men of
valour," with plenty both of tongue and
cheek. Didn't they speak out, and didn't
I chuckle in my corner to think what friends

Lovett had. Kelso looked round at me
several times during the evening, his sharp
Scotch face beaming with satisfaction and
pride, and 1 winked and grinned at him,
and cried " Hear, hear," lustily when I
heard the others at it. The end of it all
was that the meeting adjourned for a week,
and then they all agreed to vote for a Bill
to be brought into the House of Commons
embodying nearly all that Lovett and
others wanted. Then there was a committee
of twelve persons appointed to draw
up the Bill, consisting of six M.p's and six
workmen, viz : —

D. O'Connell, M.P. H. Hetherington.

J. A. Roebuck, „ J. Cleave.

J. T. Leader, ,
C. Hindi ey, ,
Col. Thompson, ,
Was. Crawford,,

J. Watson.
R. Moore.
W. Lovett.
H. Vincent.

And this was the origin of the celebrated
People's Charter, which made noise enough,
for a time, after that night.

It seemed a grand triumph for Lovett and
his friends ; and Kelso, Rufford, and I, had

a very jolly evening with, a few others at the
Bell," Old Bailey, on the strength of it.
But before much progress could be made
the king died, and Parliament was dissolved,
and the committee couldn't meet
again for some time.

The young man last named on the above
list, Henry Vincent, was one of the very
pluckiest little chaps I ever set eyes on.
He seemed as if he had enough " go " in
him to upset the whole House of Commons,
and the aristocracy into the bargain, if they
didn't work on the square as we bade them.
I heard a good deal more about him afterwards,
and so did the country at large, fora
more telling speaker never got on a platform.
Eloquent ? I believe you ! But it
was his humour and satire that told on an
audience, even more than his eloquence,
except just at the end, and then after he had
been speaking for two or three hours, and
keeping everybody fixed in the closest
attention or laughing consumedly, he'd
wind up with a magnificent appeal, that
made us all jump up and hurrah like blazes

the moment lie sat down. He was always
in the front of the battle from this time till
1843, and did splendid service. He was
very near getting into Parliament two or
three times, twice at Tavistock and once at
Ipswich, but unluckily for the people's
good he never quite hit it. So at last he
gave up politics altogether and took to professional
lecturing, which enabled him to
support his family, while politics didn't pay
at all, neither for him nor for anybody else,
I think, except scamps.

I tried hard now to understand what the
row was all about, and one morning as I
went to work I saw a lot of men standing
round a great placard on the wall, which
proved to be an " address " from the
"Working Men's Association," drawn up
by Lovett. It was very long, but very fine,
and when I got to the shop I found Kelso
had a number of copies which he was distributing.
It made the matter pretty clear
to most of us. The great Reform Bill,
about which such a fuss has been made,
wasn't of much use after all — the working

classes had given the middle and upper class
hearty and generous support to carry it,
though it didn't do much for them, and now
that the great manufacturers and merchants
and employers had got all the power they
wanted, they turned a deaf ear to the just
complaints of the people, and, not content
with spurning their petition for political
rights with contempt, as the address said,
they were " binding them down with still
more slavish enactments." But the people
were not going to be done out of their rights
in that way. Were they " to allow despotism
to triumph ? " No. " The people
have now learnt," said the address, " a
profitable lesson from experience, and will
not again be stimulated to contend for any
measure which excludes them from its
advantages. They now perceive that most
of our oppressive laws and institutions, and
the consequent ignorance and wretchedness
to which they are exposed, can be traced to
one common source — Exclusive Legislation,
and they therefore have their minds intently
fixed on the destruction of this great and

'pernicious monopoly ; being satisfied that
while the power of law-making is confined
to the fete, the exclusive interests of the few
will be secured at the expense of the many."
Hence the Association urged on their
fellowmen the necessity of contending
for political power as the most certain
means of redressing all their wrongs," and
there was the beginning of the great
Chartist agitation. Several of the leading
Radicals among the middle classes began
to see, as I have shown, that the Reform
Bill of 1832 had left the great bulk of the
people as much at the mercy of the wealthy
classes as (before the Reform Bill) all
classes had been at the mercy of the
borough-mongering aristocracy ; and even
Mr. Atwood, M.P., the Birmingham
patriot, who more than any single individual,
perhaps, had helped to carry that
Reform Bill, 3 had begun, Mr. Lovett told
us, to talk of it as being " nothing better

3 The Birmingham Political Union, of which he
was the head, led the van, and roused the country at
large, in the memorable struggle.

than a witch's bantling," and of the new
set of borough-mongers as being little
better than the old.

Of course we all welcomed this address
with immense enthusiasm, and numbers
hastened to enroll themselves in the association.
By another address presented to
the young queen on her accession we informed
her Majesty and the country at
large that out of a population of 25,000,000
of people only 800,000 had the power of
electing the House of Commons, which we
denounced in Lovett's eloquent language
as " a flagrant act of injustice," and one
that was the cause of indescribable want
and wretchedness as well as ignorance and
vice among the people. I began to feel
desperately indignant with the Government
and the governing classes, and especially
with those whom O'Connell called
"the base, bloody, and brutal Whigs,"
almost ready, in fact, to strike a blow with
bludgeon or broadsword the moment word
was given.

But neither Lovett nor any of his friends

were going to say that word. They always
denounced the folly of attempting to get
by force the reform they demanded, and
spoke sternly enough to any of us who
even hinted that physical force might be
necessary. For some time I couldn't
understand that. I had heard it was the
display of physical force alone that made
the peers, and the Iron Duke and the King
himself give way and pass the Reform
Bill ; so why should it not pass the People's
charter ?

One night there was a grand discussion
on the political situation of the times at the
Debating Society I spoke of before, and I
got some new light then on the subject.
After a very able introductory speech by
one of our best men, I think it was either
Hetherington or Vincent, a young barrister
(of the Middle Temple, I think they
said), got up and declared that folks who
denounced the Reform Bill and the Whigs
in the supposed interests of the working
classes didn't know what they were talking
about. He showed what a wonderful deal

that Act had done to break the power of
class tyranny in the United Kingdom, and
how many great reforms had already come
out of it, especially Municipal Reform,
which had given self-government to nearly
all the towns of any size in the country.
He didn't deny that much remained to be
done, and that a further extension of the
Franchise was necessary, but it was to begot,
like all other reforms, gradually, and
by peaceable agitation, and keeping in with
friends like the Whigs, who had helped us
before, and would again, if we didn't make
enemies of them by foolish talk and black-guarding
them. As for the Reform Bill
having been carried at last by fear of
physical force he thought that was pretty
true. Birmingham and the Midland counties,
to say nothing of the North, were, no
doubt, ready to march on London, " but,"
said he, with huge emphasis, " what would
their marching have done if the Government
hadn't found that they couldn't depend
on the soldiery ? It was Alexander
Somerville and the Scots Greys (then

VOL. I. F

quartered in Birmingham) that really
carried the Reform Bill, gentlemen; and
don't you tell me we are going to have the
troops on our side again for a quarter of a
century yet. I tell you, any appeal to arms
by the working classes alone would end in
your all being blown into rags before the
week's out, and you haven't got the middle
classes with you now, remember that."

More shame for them ! " cried a number
of voices, " we worked to get them their

Reform Bill, and it's a shame if they

don't help us now ! "

Gently, John, over the stones," said
my young lawyer in a mild, determined
sort of way, not a bit put out. " Don't you
see, gentlemen, they are rather afraid of
you just now, so they aren't trust you
with votes, and you've got to show them
you are all such sensible, fair-play chaps,
and so well-educated, that they needn't fear
to see you get political power ; then they'll
vote for your five points, or anything else
you like to ask for." But it was no good.
They didn't like his calling them " chaps,"

nor the smile on his face, though it was all
meant good-huraouredly, I fancy ; and they
didn't like his hinting they ought to be
better educated before they had a vote, and
altogether they made such a row, and were
so fierce and unfair as I thought, that it
made me a deal more inclined to believe he
might be right ; for, said I to myself, they
wouldn't go on like that if they had any
better arguments. Kelso was vexed with
them, and said it was only a few unruly
members, and then he showed me how
conduct like that only proved that their
education and training had been shamefully
neglected by the governing classes,
and that if they were not to have the
suffrage till they were better educated they
might wait till doomsday. " It's a foul
shame," he cried, stopping under a lamp-post
in his excitement as we went up Gray's
Inn Road, " to tell working men they're
not fit for political power because they're
ignorant and uneducated, and yet to keep
them without free schools, and to ply them
with public-houses and these accursed beer
r 2

shops on every side. I tell you what it is,
Master Woodford " — and then catching me
by the arm, he strode on at a great pace,
" the gentlefolks will never care to give
the working classes good and cheap schooling
until they do get political power. You
mark nry words." But he told me afterwards
there was a lot of truth in what the
lawyer said about the Reform Bill, and
the good it had done, and getting improvements
gradually, and by persuasion, but
that Lovett and his party never dreamt of
using physical force.

When I told Rufford all that had passed,
and what each man had said, he coolly
answered, "Yes, yes, it's all true, but
some of it's rubbish, and yet true ; but
the lords, and the squires, and the M.p's
want a deal o' education too ; aye, full as
much as the working men, young fellow,
and it's because they are so infernally
badly brought up, without more notion of
their duties than my hammer, that things
go to the devil, and we working men have
to pay the piper ! "

CHAPTER IV.

Ned Rufford was a very sharp, long-headed
tyke, and let me in for a lot of
clever dodges, and showed me the ways of
the world in a surprising manner. But
Sandy Kelso was a better guide for me
than Rufford ; he had a deal more principle,
and more book-learning, besides being able
to get me on in my trade. It was a bad
day for me when he got the sack, after I
had beeii at Grapnell's about ten months!
and I never rightly understood why he had
to go, but he always thought it was because
he didn't drive the hands enough. I know
he was a first-rate workman himself, knew
twice as much as the man who got his
place, and who was always a-nagging us if
we weren't sweating ourselves to death.

'Now, you can't get real good work out of
a workman in any trade, I don't care what
it is, if lie feels all day long as if the devil
were behind him with a rope's end in his
tonsure and a time-book in his hand, so
that you aren't look round or hardly draw
a long breath, but what you know the
foreman or master is saying to himself,
Curse that lazybones ! Why can't he
keep to his work ! " Good work must be
done with a cheery heart, with a sort of
love for it, taking a pleasure and pride
in it, like; a ad you'll never have that
feeling with a slave - driver at your
back.

But then, I know there's another side
to the story. In our shop, as in most, I
suppose, there were some precious lazy
chaps, who often scamped their work when
they thought it wouldn't be spotted, and
fellows of this kidney must be driven, and
looked after pretty sharply, too. So I
suppose the best thing is to weed them outby.
degrees, and get as good a lot together
as you can, and then, with a foreman like

Mr. Kelso, you may work the coach by
much better motives than fear of the slave-driver
or the sack, and get the men each todo
his best for you, which the right sort of
men will do gladly enough when they find
you value good work and mean to do the
best you can for them. Leastways, that's
what I've found to be true, first as man
and then as master. But then there are
very few men who get decently taught their
trade now-a-days. There's nobody to teach
an apprentice. The lads when they come
into the shop have to pick it up as best
they can ; the sharp ones learn, and those
who can "treat" an old workman get
many a wrinkle ; but the common run don't
learn much for a long time, and then they
only feet hold of the lower branches of
their trade. No fellow can care much for
doing things well, and in a workmanlike
manner, when he knows that he's only a
bit of scamped work himself. All this is
as much against the employer and the
customer as it is against the workman, and
the waste of stuff, as well as of time, is

immense. I remember old Grapnell coming
into the shop one morning, swearing like a
trooper because there were half a dozen of
us with our hands in our pockets. " What
the devil," he cried, " are you idling about
here for ? " " Waiting for the foreman to
set out our work, sir," said one of the menas
sullenly as you please.

"Pretty lot you must be," grumbled the
old man, " if there isn't one among you
can do that." Kelso came up just then,
and as Mr. Grapnell turned away, he said
to us, "Aye, but the maister 'ud have to
pay you rather mair, my boys, if you could
set out your work without waiting for me."
This set me a-thinking, and the end of it
was Kelso undertook for "a sma' consideration"
to teach me drawing and " coquetry."
I liked his lessons, and worked away
o' nights pretty hard. But as I was saying,
he himself soon after got discharged,
and I lost my teacher, but I worked on as
I best could, which wasn't saying much. I
never was over quick at anything. But I
got some good from attending classes at

the Mechanics' Institute, in Southampton
Buildings, Chancery Lane.

It was a great misfortune losing Kelso;
bad in my trade, and bad for me outside.
For he didn't get another berth at once —
trade was very slack then — and so he soon
went back to Edinburgh. Rufford, however,
was always friendly, and took more notice
of me than was to be expected, considering
he was full ten years older. But he couldn't
teach me anything in my trade ; he didn't
care for reading, except the weekly newspaper
; and his talk wasn't always of the
cleanest, nor his ways either. In fact, to
speak plain, he'd have done me a great
deal of harm if I hadn't been blessed with
a decent father and mother, and thought
so much of Maggie Thatcher. As it was,
he rather helped me to keep out of the
dirt, for he frightened me rarely with all
his hospital stories, and what he called his
experiences," and though I didn't want
that kind of help much then, yet in after-times
when temptation came on me much
worse than it did then, it was of great use

to me. Others have told me it was the same
with them. But it's my belief if a young
fellow is brought up decently and carefully
he'll be as modest and pure as a young
maid, and won't let nasty talk take hold
of him. After a little time, when Rufford
found I didn't make that kind of thing
welcome, he very seldom brought it up, or
tried to get me into his own way of living.
In fact, I remember well his telling me one
night, and letting his pipe go out while he
talked, as we strolled round Copenhagen
Fields, he thought I had the best of it, and
he should try and turn over a new leaf. I
believe he did, too. But habit is a strong
master, for good or for evil.

The style in which Lovett and his friends
were trying to push their plans, may be seen
in the following extract from a first-rate address
drawn up by him and issued by the
"Working Men's Association" to their
"working-class brethren in America." After
congratulating them on much that was good
in their institutions, and blaming quite as
frankly what seemed unworthy in their conduct,

the address continues thus: "We
seekto generate a moral stamina in the ranks

of the millions, and accordingly make moral
conduct the test of membership, convinced
as we are that a drunken, a dissipated, and an
immoral people will never attain to political
and social greatness ; that, whatever maybe
the form of their government, they will
be the slaves of their own vices, and consequently
the fitting slaves of others.

Feeling satisfied that true liberty, its
obligations and duties, are never appreciated
by the ignorant, we seek to instruct ourselves
and fellows in all that regards our
political and social rights. To that end we
seek to establish libraries of the best and
choicest works appertaining to man and
society. We seek to promote conversations,
discussions, and public meetings
among us, and thus not only make the
sons of labour acquainted with their rights,
but qualify them also to carry their knowledge
into practice.

We seek to make the mothers of our
children fit instructors for promoting our

social and political advancement, by reading
to and conversing with them on all
subjects we may be acquainted with ; and
thus by kindness and affection to make
them our equal companions in knowledge
and happiness, and not, as at present, mere
domestic drudges and the ignorant slaves
of our passions." l

When I heard Kelso reading aloud that
address to a number of our men, and particularly
this part of it, I thought more
than ever what a blessing it was for our
class to have such men at our head ; and I
expected to see a wonderful change before
long come over the manners and ways of
all working men. Fancy my astonishment
when I heard Kelso saying to the foreman
of another shop, as, on a later night, he
finished reading it to him and a select lot
of what you may call upper-class hands
at the " Carpenters' Arms," Somers Town,
"Well, what clo you think of William Lovett

1 There was also another fine " Address to the
working classes " on the subject of education, drawn
up by him, and issued by the Association in 1887,
but from which I haven't room to quote here.

now ? " " Think ! " said the foreman, after
a puff or two, " why, that he's a regular
prig," — and then the others only laughed,
and one of them said, " Aye, he's as full
of conceit as a Scotch haggis of stale meat."
Kelso drew off in a silent rage, but he
wasn't so angry and disappointed as I was.
I knew better than to be disappointed in
later days, for I have always found that if
any one of our class tried to raise the rest
there were plenty ready to pull him down,
and daub him with mud into the bargain.
Not that men like Lovett cared a rush for
what was said of them ; but the mischief
is when a great party, like that which
Lovett and Co., were trying to organize for
social and political improvement, are taught
by jealous backbiters to sneer at and distrust
the best men among them. They
must have leaders of some sort, and
Englishmen seem to me to have a fine
readiness to honour merit where they find
or think they find it. But English workmen
are confoundedly ready, also, to suspect
all who want to help them, and to be

jealous or men of their own class who show
what Kelso called "climbing " and " governing
power." Heaven knows they have
had reason enough to suspect and distrust
any who profess to be their friends. But
why they should be so abominably jealous
of their own natural leaders I never could
understand, and shall always think it a
mean side of their character. The mischief
that came out of all this sort of feeling in
that Chartist movement we shall see plainly
enough by-and-by. But I have given all
those long bits from Lovett's addresses not
only because of the honour I feel for the
man himself, but to show what chances
my fellow-workmen had in those days, and
what Lovett would have led them on to if
they would only have followed him. If
they didn't take the chance, and if they
let knaves and fools come betwixt them
and him, that was their look-out, and a
shame and a sorrow it was to them for
many a day.

But in the time I'm now speaking of,
though foremen, and ambitious would-be

leaders, and drinking coves sneered at this
fine Cornish cabinet-maker, the great bulk
of the regular workmen, especially in London,
trusted and respected him thoroughly.
It was only when he came to be widely
known as the author of the People's Charter,
and the principal man in a movement
which began to take large dimensions, that
jealousy on the one side, and the dirty
ambition of vain, selfish men on the other,
clipped his power of helping on either our
enfranchisement or education. There were
a good many of this colour in the Chartist
ranks, but I think Lovett would have held
his own fairly against them, and shaped
the movement on the right lines, but for
the amazing influence gained by one man,
who, I'm bold to say, and I say it deliberately
after forty years' consideration, did
more harm to the working men's political
and social well-being than half a dozen
Loves could repair; more, in fact, than
any dozen traitors or enemies of the people
all put together.

How I came to see into that matter

pretty easily was tins wise. I had of course
joined the "Working Men's Association as
soon as Kelso proposed it to me ; and one
night before he left London (I remember
it as though it were yesterday) after a
public dinner at White Conduit House,
given to some Radical M.p's, where Lovett
had made an eloquent speech, and I, having
been taken in by Kelso after the cloth was
drawn, had been cheering him till I was
hoarse, Kelso brings me quietly up to the
platform, and says he in a whisper, " Now,
my boy, wouldn't you like to be introduced
to the author of the People's Charter ? "
Well, my tongue stuck to my mouth, and
I was so glad I could hardly thank him,
when I found myself being led up to Mr.
Lovett, and heard Kelso saying, " Here,
Mr. Lovett, here's a young Chartist carpenter,
who's a great respect for you and
the Charter, and wants to deserve your
respect and that of the Association." Then
I remember the tall, broad-shouldered man
looking me full in the face for a moment
or two with his great brown, serious eyes,

and taking me by the hand, I heard horn
say to me, slowly, yet heartily, " If you'll
do your duty by the Charter and the Association,
young man, you may depend on it
we'll all respect you — a deal more, may be,
than you'll deserve, for we don't do things
here by halves, do we, Alexander Kelso ? "
and then he gave a pleasant little (very
little) bit of a laugh. Then I remember
blundering out something about his being
my leader and chief, and how I should
serve him, and his taking me up with,
"jN T o, no, young fellow, we don't want
leaders and chiefs among working men.
Do your duty, and serve your fellow-countrymen,
and don't trouble your head
about me." Then I heard him telling
Kelso how angry a certain Mr. Feargus
O'Connor, an Irish barrister, was, because
their committee had invited Daniel O'connell
to the dinner. " Why," said Kelso,
I've heard Feargus in former days declare
he was only a joint in O'Connell's tail ! "
Aye," said Lovett, " but Dan didn't wag
his tail so as to make Feargus part of the
VOL i. G

head ; and so they've quarrelled, and I
begin to have my doubts about both of
them."

After that night Mr. Lovett generally
gave me a kind nod when he noticed me at
the meetings, and seeing me hang about
his table, he would sometimes give me a
job to do here and there, which sent me
home as gay as a lark.

CHAPTER Y.

I think it was somewhere about this
time I heard two of our men talking together
one evening, just as they went out
of shop after work, about something that
made me miffhfcy curious* " Oh ! Mr.
Trimming," said I, " do let us go with
you." "Look sharp then, my lad;" and
I just ran home, got my tea, and by eight
o'clock I was going with them into a coffeehouse
near Battlebridge. 1 There was a
large number of rather roughish-looking
customers crowded into the room, and at
the further end whom should I see but
Ned Afford in the chair. I thought it
strange he hadn't told me of the meetings
offered to take me to it ; but afterwards

1 Now called " King's Cross," I don't know liv.
The old name, I've heard say, was a history.

G 2

I saw plain enough he didn't want me
there, partly because I was one of " Lovett's
lot," and partly, I think, because he didn't
want to get me into trouble. "Well, he
was explaining, to the great discontent of
his audience, how that Alexander Somerville,
formerly a private in the Scots
Greys, at the last moment had declined to
attend the meeting (and, as I learned
afterwards, because he didn't like the
nature of it). " But," cried the chairman,
as murmurs and more outspoken anger
were beginning to make confusion, " but
(now can't you be quiet and listen, gentlemen)
— but, I'm glad to say here's another
friend who was also in the Scots Greys,
and he's not so squeamish, and he'll tell us
all about how it went once, in the barracks
at Birmingham when the bloody-minded
Tories wanted to massacre us as they did
the Manchester folks with their yeomanry
at Peterloo ! Here, gentlemen, is Mr.
Stirling, late of the Scots Greys." Then
the room rang with cheers, which were renewed
more and more vociferously, as a tall,

soldierly-looking man rose from beside the
chairman, making a military salute, and
then a bow, and when at last silence came,
he began in a clear, quiet voice : —

I think, Sir, you want me to tell you
how the Reform Bill came to be carried at
last. Well, mates, I believe it was our
regiment that carried it. (Applause.)
You know we were quartered in Birmingham
at that time o' day, and the Birmingham
Political union numbered about 60,000
members, and all the principal towns in
England had formed unions like theirs.
They had all had great meetings, but the
biggest were at Birmingham. So when
news came down by the night coaches (and
rare crowds were waiting for them as they
came in every morning !) that the House
of Lords had thrown out the Reform Bill,
and that Earl Grey's ministry had resigned,
their numbers went up to above
100,000. Placards were issued in London,
saying, ' To stop the Duke, run for gold ! '
that meant, you know, mates, ' Empty
the Bank of England's money-chest,'

slaughter,) and they say that in one week,
more than a million of sovereigns were
drawn in small sums for bank-notes. I
should like to have seen the faces of the
directors while their clerks were shelling
out the yellow-boys, eh! much laughter,
a n d clajpjp ing of h a n ds.)

Well, the next thing we heard was that
the men from the North were to come clown
South, and the Birmingham Union, with I
'•^on't know how many more, were going
io march on London, and camp out on
Lamp stead Heath, and that we were to be
ordered out the night before on to the
London road to stop their march. We
knew what that meant ; but if we hadn't,
the meaning would have been plain enough
on Sunday the 13th of May, 1832, when
we were all of us set to grinding our
sabres, because it was said the people were
to begin walking next day. Now my
friend who was to have talked to you a
bit to-night, and he 'ud ha' done it a deal
better than I "— (" No, no ! Bravo ! Go on,
my man! ") — " and who's as fine a fellow as

ever put foot in stirrup-iron, and a true
friend of the people " — (" Why didn't he
come here to-night ?") — " Tell, he never
said he would. But it was he stopped the
Scots Greys from murdering the Birmingham
unionists — leastways, he took the
lead ; but I know there weren't twenty of
us had any stomach for the work, and
perhaps we shouldn't have gone even if
Somerville hadn't told us privately his
mind about it. But he did tell us on the
quiet, first one and then the other. So
first thing on that Sunday morning, I
remember, I was rubbing down my nag,

and one of our corporals, Donald (no

I won't give his real name) — came into the
stable (Corporal Trim we used to call him,
for he was always so spruce), and says he,

I say, Master Stirling, we shall have to
go down among the people in real earnest
after all.' (You see it had often been
talked about before.) ' Eh ? ' says I,
looking up rather scared. ' Yes,' says he,

I heard captain talking to our sergeant-major
last night ; and says he, those blackguard

unionists are d d impudent, and

are going to walk up to London on Monday,
and it won't do ; and the magistrates have
had a hint from the Home Office, and
they and the colonel have had a talk
about it, and it's all settled. The fellows
want a little blood-letting.' So when
corpora] had finished, I gave a good whistle,
and began rubbing down my horse again."
(The crowded meeting had been listening
like one man, and here they relieved their
feelings with a bit of a laugh, then there
was dead silence again, and the soldier
went on.) " So presently corporal says
under his breath, ' And what do you think
of that, my boy ? ' ' Think ! ' says T,
softly, c wdiy I think — if we w r ere ordered
to charge the Brummagem boys — I think
our horses would shy.' " (The meeting
burst out into a roar of laughter, with
cries of bravo ! and immense clapping of
hands and cheers that might have been
heard half a mile off.) "Aye, you laugh,
my mates, and so did our corporal — roared
like a good 'un, he did. l D'ye think all

our horses would shy, then ? ' he added.
Well,' says I, ' looking at the colour of
their manes (great laughter), that's my
belief, corporal.' ' Aye, aye, you mane the
same as I do,' says he. I told you he was
a smart young chap ; and then he turned
towards the stable-door, saying, ' Well, I'd
a deal rather they did shy, Harry, than —
you know what. But it won't do to say
so.' ' Course not, corporal.' ' Tho' we are
soldiers we ain't slaves, nor a-going to
make our countrymen such. Why, as
Sandy Somerville says, If a beggarly
French trooper knows better than that ' —
he was thinking, mates, you see of 1830 —
■ I should think a free-born Briton might.'
(Great applause.) Just then the sergeant-major
walks into the stable, looking rather
suspicious and sulky, so we shut up, but I
rather think our officers and the Iron Duke
himself heard something about the feelings
of the men, and poor Somerville was made
scape-goat and got his three dozen lashes,
and was drummed out of the regiment, as
true a martyr for the good cause, my menas

ever roasted at Smithfield, but the long
and the short of it was that the Duke found
that he couldn't trust either the London
police, the yeomanry, or the troops, and
least of all our bonny Scots Greys ! "
(Three rattling cheers for the Scots Greys
followed.) "And so you seethe Reform
Bill was carried, and that's how it all came
about." (" But what's the good of it now
we've got it?" shouted half-a-dozen voices.)
Ah, there it is. We want a deal more than
that, and it's a thundering shame if you
can't get it — and I hoped Somerville was
the man that would have led you on — but
somehow his horse has shied now, and
though I'm no longer in the ranks, (not
drummed out, mind ye — got my discharge
all regular,) yet may be I could help you a
bit, and all the better for having been in
the Scots Greys." Here the cheers began
again, and in the midst of it we found a
desperate scuffle going on near the door,
and cries of " Spy ! Spy ! Government
Spy! Turn him out!" The soldier and
Rufford looked uncommonly serious, and

there was some talk of breaking up the
meeting. Instead of that, however, the
leading men with their friends made a
rough sort of scrutiny, and everybody who
wasn't known to somebody who was known
got a civil request to bolt, and if he didn't
he got something else, which sent him not
very quietly outside and over the stairs.
Then the remainder talked in low earnest
tones about what was to be done to get the
Charter carried — and there was a deal of
talk about street fightings, and Colonel
Macedon, and eight-foot pikes, and things
I didn't like to hear about, and angry complaints
because Lovett wouldn't hear of
fighting in any shape ; and then some of
them cried up Feargus O'Connor, and said
that he was the boy to lead them; and
then there were many who spoke, in the
same style, of Julian Harney and Bronterre
O'Brien, and a lot more.

I rather think some of these were at the
meeting, but I didn't know 'em by sight
then, and there wasn't much light of any
kind, and I more than ever wished I were

safe out of it, for I didn't like a deal of
what I heard, nor their blaming Lovett ; so
I declared to myself, as I got outside the
door, I'd go to no more of these meetings
unless Lovett was going too ; but said I
to myself (and at the time I meant it too),
I'll follow him through thick and thin —
through gaol doors, or a hundred bobbies,
or red-coats either ! "

But I knew he'd like to hear all I could
tell him, so I took some notes which I was
always rather handy at, and I got some of
my mates to help me afterwards with what
they could remember about it.

All of a sudden, as I was stumbling along
the dark passage and over the threshold
into the open air, I felt my arm grasped,
and some one whispered " Come along, Jem,
I want to speak a word with you." I
thought I knew the voice, but it was so
strained and harsh I didn't believe it could
be my pal, till we came under the gas-light,
and then I saw it was Davie Roberts, and
no mistake. We grasped each other's
hands, for I know we were main glad to

meet again, both of us, but his face was thin,
and he looked so fierce and queer, I should
hardly have guessed him to be the same
young chip that used to look so smiling
and spruce on Sundays at Broadfield. So
almost the first thing I said was, " Why,
Davie, what makes you look as if you'd
been to a bull-baiting ? " " It's just that,"
said he, " I have been seeing our agricultural
labourers baited worse than bulls or
badgers either, and our regular mechanics
are not used much better, and I can't stand
it no longer. That's the kind of talk, my
boy, we've just been hearing that'll do us
good. We must come to that at last ! "
To what?" I asked, and he answered
with a vicious swing of his stick, and I
gave a long whistle.

Now don't you be a white-livered cur,
Jem," said he, and I turned upon him
rather sharp. " No offence, mate." he
added, "but can't you see what the Government's
driving at? Have you. forgotten
the Manchester Massacre ? or the Dorchester
labourers ? Don't you know how

they're driving the farm-labourers to beggary,
and their blasted Bastilles, and don't
you see — don't you feel it in your bones —
that they'll be clown on our "Workman's
Associations before long, and then on onr
Trades Unions, and make us worse slaves
than ever those chaps were on the ' 
' side of the water ? "

May be I see all the bad the beggars
are after as well as you do," said I. " But
I've heard all about Oliver the spy, and
about a good many more blackguards of
his kidney, and I'm confoundedly mistaken
if there wasn't one or two of 'em there
to-night. And what's more, I don't believe,
not for a moment, that you or Julian
Harney, or half-a-dozen ex-privates of the
Scots Greys, and, least of all, that big
blethering Irishman, what's his name —
O'Connor ? are going to bring the Government
over to the side of fair-play, and
justice for all."

And so you're going to put up with it
all ; and not stir a finger to help save our
class from slavery ? "

Nay, not so fast, friend Davie. I am
stirring all my fingers, and all my brains
too, and I've got a good leader to work
under, and if you'll come with me tomorrow
night I'll take you to Mr. Lovett,
and he'll show you what's to do." (Didn't
I feel a bit proud at thinking I could introduce
a fine young fellow like Davie to
my hero.)

Oh, bother William Lovett ! " cried
Davie. " It's all cursed nonsense to think
you're o'oino- to make either \Vhio-s or
Tories listen to your smooth-speaking
blarney. I tell you it's only muskets and
pikes that'll ever make a lord, or a son of a
lord, or any one as knows a lord, do justice
to jack-planes, hob-nails, and mortar-boards."


But I was getting cross : so that we
oughtn't fall out just when we'd met, I
said, " But, Davie, do you mean you've left
your work clown at Fordham — or has it
left you ? "

"Mb; I've thrown it up. I couldn't
stay down in that hole while all this was

going on ; so I gave them notice, for I'd
saved a bit there — as well as the publicans
would let me; and then they offered to
raise my wages. And didn't they slang
me for going, just when they were so
throng of work — two contracts on hand,
Jem ! But I told them working men had
been slaves too long, and our turn was
coming now. So we didn't part very good
friends, you see, and I needn't go to them
for a character. And now I'll go for
political reform or revolution ! "

CHAPTER VI.

I cautioned him to keep his bloodthirsty
designs to himself, and hinted there was a
Peeler within ear shot, carefully watching
us, and then after a minute or two I said,
And was this all that brought you up to
town, Davie?" " Not quite," says he,
jauntily, to hide a bit of shamefacedness.
"You're a deep one, Jem, — and
you know — of that little birdie as I want
some day to bring to my nest when I've
got one. I didn't half like being so faraway,
and she with such a brute of a
father. . . Ah, Jem, if I could only get
her away at once from that cursed place
into that snug little home of my own, maybe
I'd leave the brutal Government to
itself for a bit longer." . . Here I lost all

VOL I. H

patience, and broke out in a way that
made him stare. " Devil take you,
Roberts, are you mad ? Why, she's
hardly seventeen, and you aren't twenty !
Don't 'ee know all these early marrying
are the curse of our class, and do more to
keep us under the masters' thumb than all
the bad Governments, and lords, and
bully-raging capitalists that ever were
spawned ? Stupid nonsense ! Talk of
marrying ! . . ."

It was true enough what I said in my
rage, but I don't know if I should have
been so certain of it if he hadn't been
courting poor Maggie Thatcher. However,
I said it, and he looked at me rather hard,
and answered pretty sharply ; so we might
have quarrelled, but we were too good
friends for that, and sweetened up before
we parted, when he said, " Well it's no
good if I did want her to marry straightaway,
for I know she won't leave her poor
mother for all the lovers who ever came
caterwauling. And I know she didn't
ought to, Jem. I will say that. But I

should like to get her away from that old
reprobate's company — I should — and maybe
I shall some day ; but I went down last
Sunday, and gave it all up for the present.
But, by George, it was hard parting.
When that girl does smile on you, or when
she looks so sorrowful, it's enough to turn
you inside out — and I don't know where I
am." (I couldn't help wishing she didn't
know or care either, for I felt quite wild,
but I kept it to myself. So he went on.)
She was very sweet and pleasant, you
see, at first, but by-and-by, when I tried
to get a promise out of her and talked
about settling, she cut up uncommon rough,
and gave me a deal of sauce, Jem, which I
didn't altogether stomach. She axed me
if I had ever had a mother myself, and
whether I should be for leaving a dear
good ailing woman like her all alone to the
mercies of such a husband, because if I
would she didn't think I should make a
pattern husband myself at all ; . . and so
we parted, with stinging words and rather
sore hearts, it may be, and in a bit of a

H 2

pet . so there's an end of that for the
present. . . But lor', Jemmy, what business
have any of us to go swooning
about after the girls, when every man Jack
of us is wanted for tough work like this,"
and he clenched his great stick and again
shook it in the air. We gripped each
other's hand, and parted. I felt for him
on more scores than one when I heard
how he had left Maggie Thatcher, for I
knew he must have been very unhappy
since, and that made him look so ill-starred
and queer. But there was one thing I
didn't like. I happened to ask after little
Puss-in-boots," whether he had seen her
or any other of our old schoolfellows ;
and he coloured up and looked away, and
answered rather awkward like, as it
seemed to me, which struck me at the
time because I needn't to like the way in
which he would sometimes joke and romp
with her. I knew the girl thought a deal
of him, and was jealous of Maggie, so I
was vexed when I found she had been
looking out for him after he had parted

with Maggie Thatcher, and had even come
a bit of the way with him towards London.
But I don't know how anybody could help
loving Davie Roberts — for a time, at least
let alone a soft-hearted wench like poor
Kitty.

Next night, as we left work, the street
was full of the news, which came among
us like a bombshell, that Rufford had been
arrested with two or three others who had
been at the meeting the night before, and
that the soldier had escaped just in time.
I ran as hard as I could to Davie's lodgings
to see if he were all safe. There I found
he had been " sent for " early that morning,
and when I got to the Clerkenwell
Police Court, all out of breath and anxious,
I soon heard that he had been sent off in
the prison van, under remand, with Rufford
and half-a-dozen more. I got sight of
them for a few minutes next day, by losing
half a day at the shop, and getting their
solicitor to take me in, and found there
was very little danger for Davie because
he hadn't actually spoken at the meeting,

though lie tried hard, he told me, to get a
chance ; but he had been watched, and
something of what he said to me afterwards
was brought up against him by the
policeman whom I noticed. So he was
marched off along with the rest, and I
found from their talk and what the solicitor
said that it was likely to go hard with
Rufford, at all events. So some of us set
to work, raised a fund, and got a " talking
man" to defend our unlucky mates. Jt
was Mr. Parry, afterwards Serjeant Parry,
and a fine true-hearted man, as he always
showed himself. We lost a deal of time
and spent a lot of money over this business,
for we knew our mates were smarting for
the working classes all the world over, and
I nearly got the sack for leaving work so
often. But it was all to no purpose.

There was a deal of bad feeling against
Rufford already among the employers, who
said he was a scheming fellow, trying to set
his fellow workmen against them, and that
he had laid a plot to get a strike through
all the engineers' shops in London.

Whether this was true, I can't say, but it
was sworn to by one or two of the witnesses,
and I'm pretty sure it helped to
make the jury look at him as a dangerous
revolutionary fellow. I may have been
wrong there, but at all events he and
another chap were convicted of sedition,
and got a year's imprisonment with hard
labour. Davie and the rest were discharged
with a caution ; and when Davie
had got clear of the crowd who were cheering
him and the others, and groaning and
hooting judge and jury, and, above all, the
witnesses (two of them whom the mob
fixed on as spies were near being lynched),
he took my arm and squeezed it like a vice.
The blasted liars ! " he began under
his breath, but I mustn't give all the
epithets with which we working men used
to garnish our remarks when we were

angry. "The tyrants," he went on,

mean to squelch us under their hoofs as
if we were vipers — and by G — d they
shall live to see what it is to make us turn.
If they will have civil war, it shall come,

Jemmy — it shall come ! " It made it worse
for my friend Roberts that he couldn't get
work at first when he came back to town,
and so he had more time to think of political
wrongs and to busy himself about the
Chartist agitation. Not but what his and
every other man's help was wanted, Heaven
knows, but want of work always makes a
fellow better disposed for evil thoughts,
and poor Davie took a more bitter view of
things than even I could quite go with
And the worst of it was that this made him
a worshipper of O'Connor instead of Lovett,
and I felt sure mischief would come of it in
some way or other. It made me right
angry sometimes, as well as miserable, to
think how a fine, high spirited, kindhearted
fellow like him was throwing himself
away.

Before long, however, there was room
for another hand in our shop, and I spoke
to the foreman, and Davie was taken on.
But I almost wished it had been somewhere
else, for there was a great bullying fellow
in it who always drank hard at night, and

used to come in a precious bad humour
next morning. One Monday morning
nothing would please him, and one of the
apprentices in particular was unlucky
enough to have to wait on him, and was
always getting jawed and cuffed. "When
we were groin* ou jj t dinner some said the
poor lad made a saucy jest at his tyrant, ashe
was rushing off out of his way, which he
might well feel inclined to do. But whether
he did or not the bully swore he did, and,
catching him by the collar of his jacket,
declared he'd teach him better manners and
pay him off for all his cheek when in the
shop. He had just struck savagely at the
boy, who dodged the blow, and he was
going to aim another, and I was thinking
what I would do, for he was half a head
taller and a lot older than me, when Davie
steps up, cool as a cucumber, catches his
arm, and says " Let the lad be, mate. He
won't so much to blame — and fair playa
jewel." Then the chap turns on Davie,
who off with his coat in a trice when he
sees what's coming, and they have a regular

set-to. A ring was made, and all the men
kept quiet lest the " bobby" should hear.
Well, the fight went on for two or three
minutes, and I can tell you a deal of hard
hitting may be done in that time — it's not
like the fight when the " Fancy " go at it
with their slow, careful watching. In a
street fight when men's blood is up they
think a deal more about hitting than
guarding ; and when our fellows saw the
blood flowing fast, and some of them cried
out that it was a shame to let it go on, I
saw the chance was come, and shouted
Part 'em ! part 'em ! There'll be one
o' them tried for manslaughter ! " But
others swore no milksops should spoil
sport, and wouldn't let the rest stop 'em.
So then I remember I tucked up my sleeves,
and stept into the ring, and said to the two
at work, " Now mates, this won't do. The
bobbies '11 be here directly, and whoever
strikes next blow will have to fight me
too." Then there was a fierce roar among
those w r ho were for the smashing to go on,
but the others took heart and held them

back, while Davie drew back a bit, precious
well bruised, wiping his crimson face, but
having done his part like a man, and the
big bully turned on me. But he soon
found I was fresh, and he was fagged ; so
after a few rounds he swore savagely and
drew off. One of his backers gave him a
knee, for he was like to faint, and I half
carried Davie into the " Pig and Whistle "
hard by. But the apprentice lad had got
off, and was put under another master
from that clay, and had a considerably
easier time of it, while Davie and I were
better friends than ever, and the bully was
a deal better behaved.

Of course I went to see Rufford while he
was in gaol, though it cost me half a day's
pay each time because of the hours, and as
the warder stood by there wasn't much
comfort to either of us, I thought. But
he said it did him good, so I went when I
could. The first time I went I remember
as if it were yesterday, that he had something
heavy on his mind, and yet he didn't
like to speak. But the next time he was

so eager and restless, and he looked so wild
that I thought his prison life was driving
him mad. " Jem," says he, " will ye dome
a bit of a favour ?" " Aye," says I,
"if I can, and welcome. You want a
doctor, don't you ? " " No, no," he snaps
me up, sharp like : " I'm none the better
for this accursed treatment ; but it 'aunt
that. Look here, old pal. There's a poor
girl living down in Pinnace's Rents, Baldwin's
Gardens, you know where — named
Caddy. I don't know her other name, or
whether she has one. I wish you'd look
her up, and give her a trifle to help keep
her straight and a bit of food in her. She
wasn't one of your altogether virtuous sort,
you know, but after we know'd one another
I believe she was true to me, poor thing — ■
and she never had a chance of being much
better. A pretty, gentle young thing, and
a cough on her chest, and not a friend in
the world, God help her ! Many a time
we've sat on a doorstep, far on in a summer
night, talking of what a queer world it
is, and all we wanted to see put to rights

and I told her at last I'd marry her, and
the poor thing sobbed in my arms till I
thought she'd ha' fainted. And then you
see, Jem, came this blasted business — and
I saw her pale face and crying eyes in
the crowd round the Old Bailey. I was
glad she'd know why I didn't come to see
her again. But I'm afeared she'll be
starving, or worse — may-be, dying of that
cough. . ." " I'll go straight," said I,
depend on that, old fellow, and give her
all I've got." " God bless you," said he,
you'll see every penny of it back again
when I come out — and I'll tell 'ee what,
Jem — see if you can't get my watch and
Sunday togs from the old cat where I
lodged, and pawn them if you find the girl
hasn't any work. Don't take the tools,"
said he, as I went out, " I can't spare
them."

So I went to my lodgings, got all the
cash I could, and went to the wretched hole
called Pinnace's Rents. But it was only to
see the dead face of the girl Rumford loved
with all the love, I suppose, he had got in

his heart. Starvation and cough had done
their work. She had died that morning, and
there she lay on her truckle bed, second-pair
back, with a pink flush still on her young
thin cheeks, very fair and sweet-looking, and
I thought — suppose she had been my own
sister. But somebody beside Rumford must
have loved her once — and then, I think my
eyes got so moist I could hardly see my way
down the steep narrow stair. It was a
sorrowful message to take to poor Rufford,
and the whole affair made me think a deal
about these poor girls, and what could be
done for them, and how this sort of thing
can be put a stop to. It seems strange ina
city like London, with so many Christian
folks about. But the men are most to blame.
When I toll Rufford he didn't speak —
couldn't, I think. At last he cursed himself
for not sending me to her when I first
came to the prison, and groaned, and
wrung my hand. I couldn't get the sight
of his face or hers out of my mind for
many a day. " Starvation ! " said he, at
last. " Poor Caddy. True to the last."

I longed more than I need say to see
Maggie Thatcher now and then, if it were
only to pass a word with her and see her
bright eyes smiling, as it seemed, and just
to know she were pretty happy as things
go. But I felt it was better to keep away,
so even when I went down to father and
mother for a Sunday afternoon I didn't go
near her. And this made me not like
going to Broadfield, and I think, now, it
fretted poor mother not seeing me often er,
and I hoped she guessed the reason. T
did meet Maggie, though, where I little
dreamt of it. And somebody else too.

I had been sent to a fine house a little
way out of town, down Acton way (called
Fountain Hall, if I remember right), to fit
up scenery and that sort of thing for some
private theatricals, as they called it, which
the fine ladies and gentlemen were going
to amuse themselves with. As I came
through a passage and passed an open
door, there sat Maggie in the room stitching
away for her life at some of their finery
for the following evening's performance;

and seeing her there, looking so neat and
bright, says I, "Why, Maggie! who'd ha'
thought of seeing you here ? " She looked
up with all her old saucy fun, " And what
business have you in this fine place, Master
Jem, I should like to know ? " So we had
a few minutes' chat, and with a deal of
blushing she told me the young ladies had
made her promise to act as a waiting-woman
or something of that kind in the
affair next night. " Then I'm blowed if I
don't get leave to stop and see it," says I,
and, oh, she did laugh so merrily, just like
her old dear self. " I wish you may, Jem,
she said, " for then I should be sure of
having one old friend at hand, and I
shouldn't v seem so much afraid of all the
fine folks." Next day we had a little more
balk. "It's a strange world to live inhere,"
said she. " Everything seems so
peaceful and beautiful — folks all seem so
kind and gentle, you know. Then they
play music, and sing — oh, the young ladies
do sing like angels. I've sat and listened
to them till the tears were in my eyes, and

I thought I were in heaven. Eh, Jem,
what a fine thing it would be if we could
all live like this, and get out of the
quarrelling and dirt and — " " And hardwork,"
said I. "Well, I don't mind
work," she answered me slowly, a but it's
having nothing but work, work, work,
from morn in o* to nio-ht, all the wear round.
And no music, no — " I don't know what
she was going to say, but I guessed. She
hadn't asked after Davie ; and yet I felt, or
thought I knew that she longed to, but was
too proud. So before I left her I just
said a word or two about him pleasantly,
partly, I own, to see if she still seemed to
care about him, after he had left her so
coolly. And when she flushed up and
stopped sewing a minute I knew what
more she wanted in her life, poor thing,
to make it beautiful or even bearable.

The theatre was all finished, and I had
a five shilling tip squeezed into nry hand
by the young master for putting on the
steam and working early and late to get
the job done in time, and I asked leave to

VOL I. i

stay, and found that was just what they
wanted, for fear anything should go wrong,
and they'd make up a bed, though they'd
got a scene-shifter from London. At last
the lights were all lit and the company
were gliding and strutting just like sw r ans
and peacocks into their places, when who
should I see among the actors behind the
scenes, dressed up so beautifully I hardly
knew him, but young Mr. Fletcher, talking
to one of the lady actresses who was the
most beautiful creature I think I ever saw.
I noticed how he looked at her and she at
him, and I guessed it all in a moment, and
I did hope for his sake she was going to
be kind to him. He didn't remember me,
and I kept out of the way.

Well, the play went on, and though I
had been to some of the London theatres,
I thought I never saw real acting till I
saw Master Fletcher and his young lady
a-courting and quarrelling. They did act
beautifully — just like life. It was pretty
plain that he, at all events, felt every word
he said. But there w T as a mighty fine

young spark there (from Oxford, they
said), who had to make love on the sly to
our Maggie, and he seemed a deal too
much in earnest also, and she seemed
to like it so well and blushed so through
her paint that I didn't half like it. But
if I weren't pleased with this young chap
when before the scenes, I liked it a deal
less when I came on them once behind the
scenes, and he was making love to her in
real earnest, and she half laughing, half
crying, told him to be quiet in a way that
would have made any man more forward
than ever.

But it all came to an end. The fine-feathered
folk went off to a grand supper,
the music stopped, and the lights went
out, and I think Maggie, as well as myself,
felt rather glum as we went clown to our
supper in the servant's hall. At least, she
was very quiet, and seemed uncommonly
shy of me. The next morning I was
going off before breakfast through the
shrubbery, with my tools at my back, when
I heard my young gentleman (he from
i2

Oxford) saying on the other side of the
hedge " Now don't be so cruel, you little
beauty. Can't you make-believe a little bit
longer ? " And then I heard that playful
little laugh, which I should have known
at the North Pole, and I heard Maggie
Thatcher saying " Don't talk nonsence,.
Mr. Haughton. You don't care a bit
about me, and you'll have forgotten all
about me when you're twenty miles away'*
Then he makes all sorts of vows, and then
there was some more fooling, and I felt as
sick and queer as if I'd taken poison. I
didn't know what to do, till I thought of
rattling my tools as if somebody was going
to work close by, and then they cleared
out pretty quick. But I couldn't leave
now till I had seen Margaret, and I made
up my mind to lose a quarter or even half
a day rather than miss her.

I had to wait two or three hours, though,
before I could see her alone : and when I
did, she seemed quite froze up like. So
I felt pretty awkward, too, but when I
began saying " Margaret," she took me up

short. "Margaret, indeed! We are
getting stuck up." " Well then, Maggie,"
says I, " I want to make bold to give you
a word of caution." She began to look
rather black and dangerous, but I cared a
deal more for her than myself, so I went
on, " It isn't quite the thing, you know,
for an honest girl like you to let that
young spark be making love to you."
Then she flashed out like lightning, "Who
are you a speaking to, I should like to
know?" But I kept my head down and
pushed on, " Xo, it isn't, nor the more so
when there's a brave, honest lad loving
you madly, though you don't trouble
about it: but he's worth more than a
dozen of these young Tom-fools in purple
and fine linen ; and I know you loved him,
-t 00 — once." " Pooh ! " she cried, with a
fine, haughty toss of her head, and her
brown eyes flashing, "I haven't much
cause to trouble myself about Davie
Eoberts, I should think, after the way he's
gone off — you know all about that, I suppose;
and I wonder you should come

preaching to me, when I'm only taking a
little comfort to cure heart sore." She
spoke bitterly enough, but I could see her
lip was quivering.

If he has gone off," said I, "it's not
for want of love for you." " I don't
believe it !" she cried, trembling ; and then
she broke away, and didn't even say goodbye;
but she was near crying, poor thing,
and I daresay did cry like a good 'un,
when she got away. If I could only — if I
could but have taken her to my heart and
given her some comfort ! Poor Maggie !

CHAPTER VII.

I went straight home after work that day,
and wrote to Roberts the same night.
Davie, my boy — come back and go down
to Broadfield as fast as you can, if it's only
for an hour, or you'll lose your lass to a
dead certainty, and maybe if you don't,
she'll get into sad trouble. Come back,
old boy, or never show your face to her orme
again." Then I gave him in a few
awkward words some notion of what I had
witnessed, and my opinion of the young spark
who was making love to our poor girl.

Stow all that follows about Maggie is
more written by my friend the editor than
myself. I have it all in my mind clear
enough to this day, for every word she said

about it afterwards went straight to my
heart, and I told him all about it, just to
make my story complete. But I couldn't
write it down to save my life ; and I didn't
think he'd make much of it — but he has,
and I will say he's got it all out just as I
could have wished ; and though it made me
feel queer at first to read it, I'm glad now
he's done it. But he had a deal of talk with
Maggie herself, and Davie too, in later
times.

Margaret had to stay on at the fine
house all that day, but saw nothing more
of Mr. Haughton, the Oxford young gentleman,
till the evening, when it being too
dark to see any longer to work, one of the
maid-servants proposed that they should
get a little fresh air, and she went with her
to one of the garden doors, and peeped in.
It was a lovely sight, and they couldn't
help creeping in, for the family and their
guests had all gone out after dinner for an
evening drive and ride. The girl soon disappeared,
but Margaret strolled on, half
fearfully, among the beautiful flower-beds —

up one green walk and clown another, till
she came to a grass plot surrounded with
old trees and shrubs, and at one corner was
an arbour covered with, honeysuckles. The
birds were singing their last songs, and
everything seemed full of peace and happiness.
"Ah," thought she, " if this could
only last, and those I love, mother and all,
could only be with me ! " Just then she
heard a soft musical voice behind her, which
she knew too well, and which sent the blood
to her face, and made her heart beat fast.

Ah, my pretty Miss Maggie, I hoped I
might get a chance of meeting you again ;
so you see I wouldn't go for a ride with the
rest,"

Oh, Mr. Haughton, I thought you were
all away from here," and she turned to go
back to the house. But he caught her
hand, and spoke so kindly, she said, and
his tone and manner were so different from
anything she had ever met with in the men
she had hitherto known — there was something
so beautifully sweet and gallant and
refined about him, as she thought — that,

after a slight struggle in her mind, she gave
it up, and let him lead her away to the
arbour.

Will you love me a little bit, Maggie ? "
said he, as he tried to take a kiss. But
even amid the intoxicating sweetness of his
lover-like flatteries and caresses, Margaret
afterwards confessed the strange repulsive T e-
ness she speedily felt towards this sleek and
impassioned young gentleman-wooer when
the contrast flashed upon her — between his
bold familiarities and the respectful gentle
tenderness of her early workman-lover.
She did not for a moment suspect the baseness
of thought and feeling that lay hidden
in the breast of the refined and cultivated
Oxford suitor. She was too young and
innocent for suspicions of that character.
But her own true refinement and womanly
instinct told her something of the infinite
gulf that lay between the characters and
purposes of the two men who, in the common
phrase, had been " making love " to
her. And it was the intensely vivid consciousness
of this contrast that saved

Margaret Thatcher from weakly yielding
her heart to Mr. Haughton's crafty flatteries
and blandishments. It gave her time, in
fact, to reflect, and awakened that spirit of
resistance whereof there was enough, and
to spare, in the poor girl's nature ; and
which now, as at many other times in her
past sad life, was enlisted against the power
of evil, though she scarcely even guessed
that in this case it was so.

Mr. Haughton seemed to feel instinctively
the change that was coming over the
bewitching .maiden by his side, and with the
prudent tactics past experience in evil had
taught him, he forbore to play the ardent
lover any more. But when Margaret rose
from the seat, as she speedily did when
once her feeling of antagonism was roused,
and as her lover walked demurely beside her,
he began to talk of various objects around
them in a style that was inexpressibly interesting
to her. All the joy she had felt on being
temporarily lifted into a higher and brighter
realm of being, when she was being wooed
in the play, and when she listened to the

young ladies singing, and looked on the
splendid acting, and on the fair company
assembled to witness it, now came swelling
into her heart again as she listened to this
accomplished and sprightly young Adonis.
What might he not hope, what might she
not fear, if opportunities of frequent meeting
were but granted ?

Was there no protecting Providence —
protecting the lover even more, perchance,
than the innocent girl — in the circumstance
that Edward Fletcher that night turned
into the garden of the old Hall, when he
came home from his ride, to smoke his
cigar and ruminate beneath the stars on the
prospects of immortal fame before him (if
he should enter Parliament), and on the
bright eyes of his beautiful mistress,
instead of accompanying his friends to the
tea-table ? However that may be, it did so
happen that he encountered his friend and
the young dressmaker (whom he recognized
at once as the waiting-maid of the amateur
performance) in one of the pleasant rose-embowered
walk s . A mn teal and awkward

halt took place, and a momentary silence
of surprise and the most provoking embarrassment.
Mr. Haughton began accounting
for bis absence from the riding party,
Fletcher commenced inquiring into it, and
Margaret slipped away from her lover, all
at the same time. And then began a conversation
between the young men, of which
human history contained no record, and
two results of which alone manifested the
probable tenor — one was that Mr. Haugh-ton,
amid mingled inward laughter and
wrath on his own part, and amid vehement
remonstrances and laments by all the company,
especially the ladies, took his departure
next day for Oxford, which he declared,
no doubt truly, he ought to have done the
very next day after the theatricals; and
the other was a letter which, years after,
when the writer was dead, the receiver
showed to James Woodford, carpenter and
Chartist. It may as well be given here to
complete this strange sad little chapter ina
poor girl's life.

Dear Fletcher, — Don't think you drove

me away from Fountain Hall. It would
have taken a stronger man than you to do
that. Fact is, I knew I should catch it
from my venerable ' Dean ' if I didn't cut
and run for the 'Varsity ; aud my governor
might hear of it, and I am not in much
favour with him already. Neither can I
say exactly that you had spoilt my sport,
though persevering malice might have had
that ill-omened and vindictive triumph.
The truth is, the little witch has something
of the devil in her — a little too much,
perhaps ; and I am always glad when Fate
or envious friends arrest me in the course
of wickedness which I grant I am too prone
to follow. Believe me, Ned, I do not
delight in sinful ways, and often resolve to
leave them utterly. But when Opportunity
(you know what Goethe as well as Shakespeare
said of it) tempts me so strongly,
what can I do but yield ? I am no saint
not even half a one, like you ; and, unlike
you, I have never succeeded in protecting
myself from evil by falling in love with a
charming girl of my own order of beings.

But in the present case I don't think I had
much chance. Bv all the e'ods, the lightning
flash with which imperial Jove blasted
poor Semele was nothing to the scathing
bolt wherewith my brown-eyed witch would
have annihilated your poor friend had she,
in the course of courtship, once discovered
marriage was not in my line at all — at least
with such as she. The dear little thing in
her innocence, I am certain, thought I was
wooing her all in honest love, like any of
her bucolic or workman lovers. And, to
tell you the truth, Ned, I really believe I
was — only I know it would not have ended
so ; and she is a kind of girl I could not
bear to drag down into the gay and easy
life filles dejoie. I fear you'll say you
wish I had always been so scrupulous ;
but, my dear fellow, you don't understand.
There are lots of girls among: the lower
orders who have never been really pure ;
their surroundings from the first, I suppose,
have been bad — they are brought up toit.
Nobody in particular is to blame
it's the fault of circumstances or Providence,

and is all meant, no doubt, in
the present state of things, for the general
good."

But I don't like quoting any more of
this vile stuff, and only give that because it
points truly to the real sources of much of
the disgusting evils with which society is
afflicted. They must be grappled with in
the early lives and homes of the poor. Till
these are purified, the supply of vicious
elements and temptations k to the middle
and upper classes will never be arrested.
But what do the " lower orders," — the
sturdy, honest, self-respecting operatives of
the country — think of the matter ? How
long are they going to let the richer and
better-educated men among us look to their
class for victims ? If victims are needful
(and a great many gentleman and officers
declare they are — for the army especially),
cannot the working men suggest that those
officers and gentlemen had better find them
in their own rank! and hint that their
sisters' and daughters' honour is quite as
dear to them as that of the women of a

higher class may be to the families socially
above them ?

Mr. Haughton was right. And during
the long wakeful hours of the night following
that quasi-paradise-arbour meeting,
Margaret Thatcher thought more of Davie
Roberts, far away, than of " the glittering
gentleman ; " and felt conclusively she
would rather be Davie's wife amid all the
humble, or even squalid surroundings which
their lot might entail upon them, if ever
they came together, than be Mr. Haughton's
bride walking " in silk attire," surrounded
by all the beauty, refinement, and grace
which education and wealth could give.
Davie's true heart and tender, respectful
love, which had been hers from childhood,
were more to her than all the young
Oxonian could offer her, even if he meant
one half of what he said.

But had she still poor Davie's heart and
faithful love ? Had she not driven him
from her by her rude, ill-tempered treatment
when last they met ? Ah, there was
misery enough for her in that thought.

VOL. i. K

But Davie was more then to blame than
she had been ; though in this lonely, trying
hour, she was sore troubled with the
thought of her sins, poor child. And no
doubt she had some reason to be, though
others had also much to answer for.

The young ladies kept her at work all
the next day, and she listened to their
sweet singing, and peeped out at the lovely
garden smiling in the summer sunshine as
she passed open windows; and thought that
heaven, if there was one, must be something
like the scenes around her there, with
just one true heart beating with hers, one
true love " by her side, whoever he might
be. So in the evening twilight, when the
great folks were all at dinner, and she knew
that Mr. Haughton had returned to Oxford,
she stole out once more to the sequestered
grass-plot amid the old oak-trees, and sat
down again in the arbour, and thought.

Had Mr. Haughton then appeared at
her side, with his soft voice and winning
ways, it would not have been fatal, perhaps,
ultimately, to Davie's hopes, but Maggie's

peace of mind and his would probably have
gone for many a day.

Maggie Thatcher returned home the clay
after that in which she was wandering out in
the twilight amidst the roses and rhododendrons
and grand old oaks of Fountain Hall.
The young ladies were very kind to her at
parting, as they had been throughout, and
insisted on her accepting several pretty
presents, besides a large and lovely nosegay
of their choicest flowers. With all her
pride she could not keep the tears from her
eyes as she took leave of them, and the
ladies wondered. Then an angry flush
covered her face, and she hurried away, for
she thought she heard one of them asking
the other, " What on earth the girl could
have to cry about, when they had all been
so kind to her ? Those sort of people surely
can't be so very sentimental."

However that may be, young Maggie
Thatcher went back to her dull, squalid
home very heavy-hearted. The beautiful
flowers seemed mocking her all the journey,
and she was more than once on the point of
k 2

angrily and sadly throwing them away.
But there was a rush of joy in hugging the
little ones, and in being once more folded
in her ailing mother's bosom, and in kissing,
over and over again, the dear pale face —
that face which, in spite of the poor soul's
fretting and sickness, and heart-breaking
troubles, had seldom been turned on her
but with love. Then the return of her
father, surly and complaining, threw its
dark shadow over all, and the flowers were
hurried out of sight, and Margaret confessed
she went to her little bedroom
thoroughly wretched, without a ray of
hope or peace, and utterly ignorant of
where to look for them.

The next day about noon, a handsome,
well-dressed young man rode up to the
Three Blackbirds," in Broadfield, and
having given his horse to the ostler, and
called for a glass of ale, he proceeded to
inquire of mine host if there wasn't a
labouring man of the name of Thatcher
living somewhere in the village, as he had
a little windfall to leave with him. Mine

"host snuffed his coming prey with joy, and
doubtless wondered mentally, as he pointed
out where Thatcher's cottage lay, how
long it would be before the said windfall
found its way into his till. " They'll
be at dinner now, sir," he observed, " and
you'll just catch him, maybe, if you go at
once." But the young gentleman seemed
to prefer letting the head of the family goto
his work before calling to discharge his
mission.

When at length he approached the cottage,
Margaret knew him, of course, only
too well, and turned red and then very pale.
But by the time he had entered under
the low roof and stood on the brick floor,
she had recovered her usual spirits, had
called up all the defiant resisting elements
of her nature, and offered him a chair without
a word of welcome. The mother looked
inquisitively and rather anxiously first atone,
and then at the other. Mr. Haughton
himself was a little disconcerted at his reception,
but soon proceeded to explain that
a friend of his, a lawyer, had discovered

that there was a small sum due to a certain
William Thatcher, of Broadfield, in winding
up the accounts of some Friendly
Society, and as he was to pass through the
village on his way to London, he undertook
to leave it, for he guessed the man must bethe
father of the young woman " whose
acquaintance he had had so much pleasure
in making on the theatrical boards at
Fountain Hall, &c, &c." A young lady
there, he said (but he ought to have said
the young lady's maid), had given him her
name and address, and there was the
money, 1/. 18s. 9d., which, however, he
must hand to the father and get his
receipt.

For God's sake, sir," cried Margaret,
when she understood the matter, " don't
do that. You don't know what mischief
you'll be doing us if you give that money
to father. Give it to mother, or take it
away as fast as you can, before father sees
or hears of it ! "

The fine young gentleman looked at her
with amazement — could not understand

the case ; but made the mystery a pretext
for getting her to step out with him into
the adjoining lane.

Maggie," said he, taking her hand
with all the warmth of an ardent, but
respectful lover — for he had learned
caution, and really felt a sincere respect,
as well as admiration, for the rustic beauty
" Maggie, I meant to have kept away
from you for a long time to come, till I
could offer you a home . . . but . . . but,
indeed, I cannot live without you. You
are dearer to me than any woman ever has
been or can be. . . . But I know you
will not be left without plenty of other
wooers. That money I brought your
father is only a pretence I made for calling
on you — to prevent suspicion. . . . No,
don't, pray don't turn away. I can't tell
you how I love you. . . . Promise me
you'll wait a little while for me, and then
that you'll come to share my lot. . . .
I know that you can't leave your mother,
but we'll manage all that. I can't bear
you and she should have to live on with

that drunken sot. . . . Dear Maggie,
promise me."

If the poor girl hesitated, who can blame
her ? She longed with all the strength of
her wild, ardent nature, to rise out of the
dreary surroundings of her present life into
that higher and lovely existence of which
she had lately had such exquisite glimpses.
Above all she longed to lift her mother out
of her father's reach, and now it would seem
as if everything, save one, that she most
desired were being offered her. But that
one was Davie Roberts' love, and perhaps
it would never be hers again. To love
and to be loved were imperious necessities
of her nature. Should she throw away
the passionate love now offered her, and the
prospect of release for her suffering mother,
merely for the chance of one day winning
back a lover who had contemptuously,
cruelly thrown her off ? And how hard
it is for a young girl to resist the pleading
of any lover — most of all such a one as that
now pressing her hand and gazing with
such lover-like earnestness into her eyes !

And as to Mr. Haughton. Do not think
him an unmitigated villain. He was desperately
in love, no doubt, as the words
are usually understood, and was just so far
prepared to sacrifice himself, his prospects,
and position, by marrying this labourer's
daughter, if he could not win her on any
other terms, as to justify him to himself
in making her believe he desired and intended
to marry her if she consented.

But it was the girl's unselfishness that
would save her if anything would. When
she asked her suitor, with all the sweet,
unsuspecting trust and dawning love that
began to fill her heart, what he would be
able to do for her mother if she believed all
his beautiful words and promises, the quick
instinct of affection felt grievously disappointed
by the evasive reply. Something
seemed to make it plain that the man
was simply playing on her love for her
mother to win her consent. Hard treatment
had made her suspicious. And then
while this fear was chilling her, the image
of Davie Eoberts, with his look of mingled

anguish and indignation, as lie broke away
from her when they last parted, rose up
before her, and all the happy scenes of
their early love and later " courting," came
crowding up, till she felt in her inmost
heart that if she promised herself to the
man now holding her hand in his delicate
jewelled grasp, Davie would never be the
good and happy man she had delighted to
fancy him. He had told her many a time
if she were not to become his wife he would
fling himself recklessly, miserably away.
And what if he ft ad left her in anger, could
she not humble herself to ask his pardon,
and so bring him back ? Could she not
risk even a more bitter degradation — risk
his not accepting her repentance, and turning
his back on her for ever ? Why should
she not think more of his happiness, his
welfare in every way, than of her own
selfish desire to be a fine lady, and to please
this gay young grandee ? Ah, why not ?

So in the strength of these dark suspicions
of one lover, and pure unselfish
thoughts for another, with a great effort

she conquered the terrible temptation,
dragged her hand from the tempter's
grasp, faced him with a sad but resolute
Xo," and, as she turned to go, added, ina
way he had never seen before, but which
he could not misunderstand, " I thank you,
sir, for what perhaps you mean as kindness,
but look you," and her brow darkened,
never come near me again. You had
better not; I mean it." Then she walked
quietly down the lane.

Mr. Haughton knew his chance was
gone, for that time at all events, and
decidedly very unhappy, as well as very
wroth, he wended his way thoughtfully
back to the "Three Blackbirds." It
was certainly a little consolation to reflect
that Maggie had thrust back the 11. 18s. 9d.
upon him, since his trick had failed. But
then, as the Yankees say, he felt himself
whipped " by a woman, and doubtless he
didn't like that.

CHAPTER VIII.

There was to be a great Chartist meeting
at Bath the night after the amateur
theatricals at Fountain Hall. Feargus
O'Connor himself, besides other leading
orators, especially Henry Vincent, if I remember
right, were to address the Radicals
of that renowned city, and the excitement
was intense.

Birmingham, true to its character and
creed, had been taking an important step.
The famous " Political Union," which did
so much throughout the country to help
pass the Reform Bill, had recently proposed
a " General Convention of the Industrial
Classes," a " National Rent Fund," a
Sacred Month " (i. e. a general holiday
and abstinence from all work), a plan for

Simultaneous meetings " all over the
kingdom, and a " National Petition. The
last-named measure was a very able, pithy
document, containing all the points of the
People's Charter," except " Equal Electoral
Districts." The idea of all the working
classes abstaining from every kind of
work for a month, in order to show the
middle and upper classes their dependence
for the comforts, and even necessaries of
life, on the men whom they were treating
as aliens and serfs, was a very favourite
and most plausible idea with us poor hand-workers
from the day it was proposed till
the memorable time when some of us tried
to put it in execution. We never stopped
to ask how we ourselves were to get fed
and pay our rent if nobody did a stroke of
work for a month. " Look here, Jem,"
said Mr. Fletcher to me years after, when
he was enlightening me on that and one or
two other subjects, "Your project puts mein
mind of this fellow," and he showed mea
print of an election row, and of a chap
seated up in the corner of the picture on

the bar of the sign-board of an inn, and
sawing away at it as hard as he could swing,
forgetting that as soon as he had cut halfway
through he would have a mighty tumble
and a broken head, for he was cutting away
the very bar he sat upon. " There, my
friend," said Mr. Fletcher, "you'll be cutting
away your own support by your sacred
month, as well as that of the bloated aristocracy
! " Eh, dear ! what a rum world
it is, my mates.

But the " Convention " was the first
thing to be done ; and a grand affair it
was. Fifty three delegates were sent up to
London — those from Newcastle were appointed
by a meeting composed of 70,000
persons, from Glasgow by 150,000, from
Birmingham by 200,000, and from Manchester
by 300,000 ; other towns in proportion.
Among them were three magistrates,
six newspaper editors, one Church of England
clergyman, one Dissenting Minister,
and tw r o doctors of medicine. Workmen,
with a few shopkeepers, &c, made up the
great body of the Convention. Their first

meeting was held at the place where I had
the good luck to go under Kelso's wing two
years before — I mean the British Coffeehouse,
Cockspur Street ; afterwards they
met at a hall in Dr. Johnson's famous
quarters, viz., Bolt Court, Fleet Street. I
had got appointed by the small society I
belonged to in Kirby Street, Hatton Garden,
and felt uncommonly jolly when
Lovett was proposed as secretary. I was
rather too shy to open my lips to speak for
many days, but I shouted heartily enough
for his appointment. Some of the physical
force party didn't at all like this move ;
and Feargus was pretty mad to find it had
been made before he came to the Convention.
But Lovett' s election had been carried
triumphantly, and he couldn't upset it.
One of the first steps taken after this was
to push on measures for getting the great
petition to Parliament for the charter extensively
signed, and with this view it was
resolved to send out missionaries to various
districts for enlightening the nation on the
subject of the charter and getting signatures.

Davie Roberts was one of those
appointed, and had to address meetings in
Somerset and Gloucestershire. Restless
and miserable about Maggie, and full of
burning desire to get the charter at once
made law of the land, he had jumped at an
offer of this appointment.

The night when the great meeting abovementioned
was to be held in Bath, Davie
was in the committee-room of the Chartist
Association in that town, waiting to go with
the rest of the speakers on to the platform.
He told me afterwards he had been much
struck with the look of a sallow-faced,
dark-haired, very young man, Who was one
of the four principal leaders of the movement
in Bath and the neighbourhood. On
making some inquiries about him, Davie
learnt that he had not long before, in the
most gallant fashion, swung himself up in
front of the meeting at a great open-air
gathering held in Wiltshire by the country
gentry and farmers to oppose the Repeal
of the Corn Laws ; and through the unexpected
and generous help of Earl Ducis

(a staunch supporter of repeal) he was allowed
a chance of addressing the vast assembly,
and firing a shot for the charter }
for the crowd took up the cry of " Fair
play ! " — the swells were overawed for the
moment, and so for once in his and their
lives the young Chartist agitator got a
comparatively quiet hearing at a great
county meeting in the South of England
on the subject of the Charter as a remedy
for the people's wrongs. Our fellows got
it more their own way in the North, but it
was the talk of the country that such a
thing could happen in the South. I remember
the Wiltshire Independent came
out bravely about it. So all this, of course,
made the young man a hero in Davie's and
many other eyes, and he edged up as near
him as he could. Then somebody told him
this audacious youth often took opportunities
of urging his working-men hearers to
improve their minds as well as struggle
for their rights, and that he sometimes
even held religious services after their
meetings, or on a Sunday evening in the

VOL. I. L

villages, where the Chartists provided him
with a room. Davie, who was getting
more and more interested in the young
man, asked whether the Bath Committee,
to which he belonged, were also in favour
of these lectures and discussions ; but just
then he noticed the youth in question was
speaking to the great agitator himself. It
was a curious contrast. The slim, pale
youth, with his burning eyes and eager expression,
taking what he thought was a fine
opportunity for interesting the tall, burly,
red-haired " Master of Legions " (as somebody,
I think, called him) in the plans they
had been adopting in Bath (and which they
wanted to see adopted throughout England)
for qualifying the people to use wisely the
franchise when they got it. So he spoke
rapidly and clearly, and Feargus listened
rather impatiently, but he did listen, for
he saw many others were listening too.
The dark-haired young man soon finished
by saying, " And so you see, Mr. O'Connor,
we are doing our best to educate the
people."

D n their education ! Stick to the

Charter," was the loud, contemptuous comment
of the imperious demagogue, as he
turned his back on the speaker. And for a
moment silence fell ou the whole room.
The young man and the Bath leaders
generally were so taken aback and disgusted,
that they could not utter a word.
Soon a few of the pot-house sort took heart,
and applauded their leader's sentiments.
But Davie said the whole party moved onto
the platform completely upset; and as for
himself, with all his faith in physical force,
and his anger at what he called Lovett's
mealy-mouthed, milk-and-water doctrines,
he never had any real faith in O'Connor
himself after that night, great as had been
his admiration for him till they met. So,
of course, he was before very long in the
black list of the Northern Star. He knew
well, no man better, that we must educate
the people if the Charter were to do 'em
anv o'ood ; and he ever afterwards looked
on Feargus as siding more or less with the
devil in the great fight. The pale young man,
l 2

of course, quite agreed with him in this
opinion. O'Connor formed an equally contemptuous
view alike of him and of the Bath
leading Chartists generally, and thenceforth
they were all marked men. The editor of
the Northern Star gave them very little
chance from that time of doing much for
the Charter. They were to be " squelched "
and were sneered down, or insinuations
thrown out against them accordingly.

Both Roberts and I often wished we
had seen and heard more of the young
Educator, but after a time he seemed to
sink out of sight, like so many of those
whom O'Connor drove from the movement.
It ought, however, to be remembered hereto
Bronterre O'Brien's lasting honour, that
he always stood out manfully for educating
the people, so much so, that the O'Con-
notes nicknamed him the "Schoolmaster."
Would that he had been better ballasted :
no man could then have checkmated O'connor
better than he.

Looking back at Davie's account of that
meeting, and of many others, and at what

I have myself grown to, I can't help
wondering at the comparative indifference
of English working-men to politics now.
Just think of the enormous masses of men
who attended meetings to send up delegates
to that Convention, as well as at the
crowded and enthusiastic meetings, not
merely in the great towns of the North, butin
the small, sleepy towns, and even agricultural
villages of the South, whenever it
was announced that a Chartist lecturer was
going to speak. Do English working-men
at the present day think that politics don't
affect them, I wonder ? or do they believe
that the middle and upper classes will take
good care of their interests, and see that our
rulers don't take too much upon themselves
? If they do, perhaps they are right,
but I rather fancy they are wrong.

The following night Davie had to address
a meeting, single handed, at Stroud. The
busy cloth workers in that industrious valley
were waking up. It was expected and
proved to be a crowded meeting. Two or
three leading Chartists of the district were

to take part in the proceedings, but not till
after Davie's address. Davie had got a
warm, dashing style of eloquence, which
he had first learned on Temperance platforms,
as he had thrown himself into that
movement heart and soul a twelvemonth
or more ago. It was just like him to take
up a work of that kind, for all the chaffing
and rude practical jokes he had to go
through on account of it among his companions
only made him more zealous for it.
But it wasn't only chaff and mischievous
tricks and a lot of sneering he'd got to put
up with. Those were days when the
roughs and rowdies used to come, well
primed, to Temperance meetings, and send
things harder and nastier than bad words
at the speakers' heads. But Davie never
flinched till he went on the Chartist stump,
and then, when he was knocking about the
country with never a Temperance coffeehouse
to be seen (they hadn't come up
then), and only the public-houses to go to,
he had to give in at last. But he had
learned how to speak, and with his really

deep, strong feelings as to the wrongs of
the working classes, he had soon become
a great favourite wherever he went.
O'Connor had not " connected " him then.
His fame had been trumpeted up and down
these beautiful Gloucestershire valleys, and
the clothworking^ Chartists from far and
near had come tramping up the valley or
down the hills to Stroud, through sludge
and darkness, to hear the orator and show
their zeal in the cause. But the poor
fellow's heart was heavy as lead, even in
the midst of his triumphs.

Davie was sitting in the tap-room of the
public-house which had been assigned for
his headquarters as a mark of honour.
Lesser stars were generally accommodated
with half a bed or a shake-down composed
of a hearth-rug and great-coats in the
humble dwellings of sympathizing and self-sacrificing
friends. Two or three of the
leading members of the Chartist local committee
had just come to bring him to the
meeting, when another came to the door
and said, " Please, here's a letter for Muster

Roberts." It had been sent first to one
person and then to another, and so had
been delayed. Davie, seeing my handwriting,
asked for a few minutes to read it, In
about a quarter of an hour's time* just
when the chairman, Davie, and the committee
ought to have been going on the
platform, there was a fine stir among these
gentlemen, and the impatient audience soon
saw something had gone wrong. They
shuffled and knocked with their sticks, and
a few of the more audacious actually cried
Time's up' for they had a long way to
walk after the meeting was over. The
committee were at their wit's end. For
poor Davie was not to the " fore."

"Mr. Roberts, " said one of the elders,
after time enough had been given for reading
the letter at least twice over, " we must
be going." " Mr. Roberts," said another
presently, "we really must be off. What's
the matter?" But, to the consternation
of all present, instead of getting up and
accompanying them, Roberts only answered
in a husky voice, " Gentlemen, you must

do this job without me to-night. I must
go back to town by the night coach " — and
seeing their horror and rising wrath, he
went on, " You've got lots of first-rate
speakers here, I know," and then as the
men broke out in all sorts of wild and fierce
remonstrances, he struck his hand on the
table with a great oath, and swore he
couldn't and wouldn't speak — no, not if all
the devils in hell howled at him. " There
were worse devils on earth, and he must beat
the throat of one of them before another
night came." The poor fellows looked atone
another aghast. They thought (only
too naturally in those days) that the missionary
had been partaking rather too
freely of the " good creature " supplied by
his host. But Davie had only had three
or four glasses. He couldn't take less,
sitting there three or four hours. And a
veteran among them read the riddle more
truly. He whispered to his mates to go
and set the ball a rolling — to say that Mr.
Roberts was very unwell, but he hoped soon
to come and address them ; that in the

meantime, &c, &c. Then, all the rest being
gone, he sat down kindly by the side of
Davie, who he could see was struggling
with some great inward trouble, asked
leave to look at my letter, talked about the
great opportunity he would have by going
to the meeting of exposing the wickedness
of the upper classes, told him the Stroud
night coach was gone and the mail was
certain to be full : but promised to borrow
a cart and drive him four miles after the
meeting across the country to catch another
night coach, if he would stay and do his
best for them at the meeting. After a
minute or two Davie rose, and dashing his
hand across his eyes, exclaimed, " By G — ,
brother, you are right ; I'll go and give
them my mind." So go he did, and spoke
in a way that electrified the Stroud Valley
cloth workers, and sent them home with a
determination to get the Charter and to
grind the aristocracy to powder, which
went tingling to their finger tips, and made
them each long to be marching on London
with a pike on one shoulder and a musket

on the other. But Davie had learnt caution
from Rufford's fate, and in the very tempest
of his fiery eloquence, he didn't utter
a word the Government spies could lay
hold of. Lucky for him. There were
more than one present, besides constables.
The following day, Saturday, Rufford
was to come out of prison, and a number
of us were going to have a grand supper to
welcome him, so you may be sure I had
plenty to do; all the more because my
foreman couldn't spare me till the dinner
hour. I wasn't much in heart for merrymaking,
for besides that business about
Maggie Thatcher, Rufford looked so ill and
worn, that it went to one's heart to see
him. He didn't look like a triumphant
martyr at all, nor did most of our fellows
when they came out of prison ; and I've
noticed how nearly all of those who were
imprisoned never took such an active
part afterwards in the movement. This
came, I take it, of their going on the false
tack at first of trusting to violent talk and
physical force to get the Charter, instead

of reason, argument, and appeals to men's
consciences or sympathies. But when the
conduct of the An ti Corn-Law agitators is
contrasted in this matter with the Chartists,
greatly to the disadvantage of the latter, it
ought to be remembered that Cobden,
Bright, and Co. had 100,000/. to spend in
printing and public meetings, while our
men often had the greatest difficulty in
raising 100/., and many a time they could
get nothing at all unless by some of those
firebrand speeches. But as to imprisonment,
when our great chief, Lovett, had to
bear it, the effects were very different.

Well, I was going back to work that
Saturday morning after breakfast, when I
saw Davie Roberts Aval king as fast towards
me as if he were in for a wager. " Thank
goodness!" cried I; "I'm glad you're come.
But I don't know — maybe you'll say it's a
storm in a tea-cup, after all."

Jem," said he, under his breath and ina
strange tone, " don't play the fool with
me. You see I've come — almost the
moment I got your letter. But " — then

his voice sank a bit, and lie couldn't sro on
at first — " but, Jem, old friend, what's the
good of my going down to Bromfield ? If

you'll tell me where that double-d d

young scoundrel is to be found, I'll go and
have it out with him, and make sure of his
doing her no mischief. But I'll not see

her. I tell you that girl don't care a

rap for me — never will. I know it as sure
as we are standing here." Then, as he saw
I differed from him, he went on almost ina
fury, " She don't care, Jem — she wouldn't
mind if I were dead ! She as good as told
me so when — when I saw her last. What
should I go whining to her for ? I tell you

she don't care a d n for me, or else do

you think she'd be taking up with a young
jackanapes like that ? "

Well, I was sorry to see him so put
about ; yet I couldn't honestly tell him I
thought the girl did care for him, or else,
as he said, how the deuce could she have
been listening to that Oxford spark ? Ah !
what do men know about young girls'
hearts ?

But it won't do," says I, " to leave the
poor child to that tarnation young scoundrel,
though he do wear kid gloves and a
quizzing-glass ;" and I couldn't help laughing,
though it wasn't a pleasant laugh, I
dare say. Davie's eyes glared like a wildcat's.


Leave her to him ; I should like to
know who proposes that. . . . But I cant
go to her. I aren't go. . . . Jem, you
must, there's a good fellow. Good friend
and true you always have been. You must
run down as soon as shop's closed."

Davie," said I, " there's many a thing
I'd do for you as I wouldn't do for none
besides. . . . But I can't do that. ' Once
bit twice shy.' I told you how she answered
me. Tell you what it is. I know enough
of Maggie Thatcher to say that not a soul
could be of any use to her now but somebody
she loves, or has loved, as she once,
I know, loved you."

"What follows I leave my friend who
supervises this to tell. I can't, and he
knows all about it.

CHAPTER IX.

It seems that within two or three hours
of Mr. Haughton's departure from the
Thatchers' cottage, Davie stood at the
door. Mrs. Thatcher feebly gave him the
old kind welcome, but Maggie hardly
answered his greeting. It was joy almost
too great the first moment to see him there
again. But then all her pride was up in
arms — ail the resentment at his leaving her,
which she had been nursing for months —
and so she stood there, cold, defiant outwardly
— within, her heart beating as if it
would burst its walls.

And Davie — he was distracted between
the memory of his early love and the cruel
way in which he thought she had treated
him— between the love which the sight of

her had brought back in all its force, and
the thought of the aristocratic lover, to
whose vile pleadings she must have been
listening. So they stood silent, fierce, and
miserable.

It was an awkward moment, but Davie
at last put an end to the torturing suspense
for the moment, by taking up the girl's
sun-bonnet, which lay on a chair, and
handing it to her with one hand, while he
tried to lead her to the door with the other.
At first she wouldn't move, and Davie was
on the point of throwing her hand from
him and bolting away back to London.
But somehow it seems just then he found
she was coming. They went out together
in the lane, and then, but very slowly and
reluctantly, she went with him over a stile
into a field. The setting sun, she remembered,
was throwing long beautiful shadows
from great trees on the rich grass, where
the cattle were quietly feeding, while the
air was full of the birds' even-song.

If you want me so much to come with
you now," she said at length, in a hard,

cold manner, " why did you go off as you
did, and never write to me for months ? "
Davie's heart was in his mouth. Had she
then been looking for a letter from him ?

"I'd have written — ay, and come a
dozen times over," said the half-penitent
lover, " if I hadn't thought you'd done with
me, Maggie, for good and all."

Oh, I dare say. That's the way all
you men talk when you play the fool with
a girl, and make her fancy all sorts of
things, and then worry her with your
tempers, and then go off in a huff."

Davie was losing patience again. He
was always very quick in his feelings, and
though he couldn't easily be fierce with her,
he didn't believe she had ever thought much
about him, and he began to move away.

"Well, good-bye, then," he said. " You've
had another lover with daintier hands than
mine to comfort you. A high - born
scoundrel, I believe. I know all about it.
You needn't scowl on me, Maggie Thatcher.
You know you've been taking up with that
young lord, and — "

VOL. I. M

"Then that Jem Woodford," she broke
in with, " has been telling you a pack of
lies."

Jem Woodford never told a lie ! " cried
Davie angrily, " and you know you've met
t'other one."

It was a great moment for this poor
labourer's daughter. If she hadn't thrown
Mr. Haughton's treacherous love in his
face, he would actually have been in that
very field when Davie came.

I sent Mr. Haughton away from yon
lane," she answered quietly, " two hours
ago ; and I'm thinking he won't come back
in a hurry. You needn't be jealous of that
lad, Davie," she added, in a softer and
sorrowful tone. " Think of your own
doings by me."

Whatever I did," said Davie, " I don't
think you fretted much about it, Miss
Thatcher, and I won't give you — " anymore
trouble, he was going to say, but ashe
turned half round to take one last look
at the dear face of her whom he couldn't
help loving better than ever now that he

seemed once again to be losing her for ever
he saw that face was being covered with
the sun-burnt hands, and he heard a stifled
sob — and all the truth rushed on him at
once. He was at her side in an instant, and
by an uncontrollable impulse he took her in
his arms and laid the girl's head, with all
its mass of flowing curly hair (the sun-bonnet
seemed to have fallen off), softly
against his rough jacket, while the tears
ran down her face, and she offered no resistance
to his comforting caresses.

Oh, Maggie, Maggie. I thought you
didn't care a bit about me."

I haven't known a happy hour," said
the poor child, as well as her tears would
let her, " since we quarrelled."

Here was a strange revelation. Maggie's
pride and maiden coyness had quite misled
her lover, and her temper had both enraged
and wounded him more than once beyond
endurance. But he couldn't help feeling he
had himself sometimes been much to blame.
So the reconciliation was complete, and it
was a very sweet and blessed hour they
m 2

spent by the old stile that evening as the
shadows lengthened and the sun went
down, and a deep peace stole into their
hearts.

At length Mao-oie began to think of
mother," who would be " badly wanting
her tea." " Davie," quoth she, " we must
be going," and suiting the action to the
word, she prepared to spring lightly over
the stile. But Davie caught her. " One
word before we go. Tell me, my darling,
just to make me always feel confident and
presuming like — why do you care about
such a fellow as mu ? "

I know," answered the pretty maid,
with her eyes, (said Davie afterwards,) as
well as her lips, and with such a saucy
smile.

« Tell me."

Then don't squeeze my hand so tight.
Why, you see, Davie, ever since I've known
you, you've always lifted me, like, out of the
dull, teazy round of things into what —
what was like a new life to me. You
talked so fine about working folks' troubles

and — their wrongs — " (" Go on, darling")
" And you did so want to help them, and
once I heard you make a speech, ducky,
and " (in a whisper) " it was such a beauty.
I mean such rubbish. Be quiet. But I
knew you meant well. I knew too, only too
well, how much labouring men want someone
to help 'em — and though father hasn't
been what he should have been, he knows
right from wrong better than many, and
he has said more than once you were one
of a thousand — "

Oh, it's so nice listening to you. Do
go on, Maggie."

But I think that's all. Oh, no. You
see, you write such beautiful poetry, and
you read it so nicely. Well, yes — and then
other folks praised you, Davie, and then
the — girls talked about you — "

Oh, you darling little witch ! how pretty
you are ! "

Nonsense, get along. But, Davie, one
word. How came you to care such a lot
about me ? "

Because you were one of a thousand —

always helping other folks — picking up
some poor little brat out of the ditch, or
giving up your supper, when you got any,
to them as had none. And when that poor
Kitty Barber's mother died, I shan't soon
forget all you did for her ; nor how you
stood between your mother and one who,
if he weren't your father . . ."

Davie, dear, come along, we must be
trotting."

One good kiss, Maggie, before we
cut . . ."

And while the blushing girl adjusted her
sun-bonnet, and her lover still kept one
arm round her, she looked into his eyes
with an expression he never could forget to
his dying day, and said, —

Oh, Davie, who that have loved like
this could ever quarrel ? "

Hanging would be too good for 'em if
they did," responded Davie cheerfully, as
they sprang over the stile and went quickly
down the lane.

Poor things ! They didn't know then
that it takes a deal of loving — ay, and

loving of a very self-sacrificing kind, too, I
think, as well of what is called discipline,
before the ill that is in us seems to get
burnt out of us. I suppose it's true what
I heard a parson once say, that even Heaven
would not be Heaven to those who aren't
ready for it.

Somebody says, " Call no man happy till
he's dead ;" and I say, " Call no love perfect
till you're parted."

It should be mentioned here that when
Mr. Haughton was returning through the
pleasant lanes of Broadfield, discomfited
and humiliated, to the " Three Blackbirds,"
in search of his horse, he suddenly spied a
straw hat with pink ribbons ahead of him,
with a light, dainty, girlish figure under it
tripping jauntily along. Quickening his
pace, he overtook the damsel, and of course
entered into cheerful conversation with herby
way of consolation for his recent disappointment.
Kitty Barber (the little
Puss-in-boots " of our earlier days) was
equally, of course, quite ready for a little
flirtation with a handsome young gentleman,

with such affable manners and beautiful
riding-whip and spurs on his heels. The
intimacy grew apace, and the bright Oxford
gentleman did not reach the " Three Blackbirds
" as soon as he had expected; but
when he did it was not in a proud or happy
frame of mind. Kitty liked a little flirtation
well enough, but was not at present
disposed for a more serious attachment.
Foolish girl. She had always loved Davie
Roberts since they were schoolfellows, and
was only too well aware that he and her
handsome rival, Maggie Thatcher, had
fallen out so thoroughly that she cherished
desperate, not to say passionate expectations
of seeing him, after all, a suitor for
her own hand.

So after a due amount of playful compliment
and rustic banter, Kitty wished the
owner of the riding-whip and spurs good
evening at the corner of a lane, and tripped
off with a self-satisfied smile, leaving him
to try the effect of a ride back to London
and short whist at his club till the small
hours, by way of soothing his troubled mind.

In the course of twenty-four hours it
was known to the village of Broadfield
generally, and to Kitty Barber in particular,
that Davie Roberts had returned and made
it up with his sweetheart, and then the disappointed
maiden, in the anguish of her
heart, wished for at least two hours that
she could have mounted behind the gallant
stranger on his beautiful horse, and ridden
far away from Broadfield for ever. But
Kitty Barber knew more than the innocent
Maggie about the dangers of such companionship.
Some of her associates had
both enlightened and warned her.

So, after parting with Maggie, Davie
went back to the West of England to finish
his lecturing work, and everybody wondered
what had come to him, for he was almost
as full of wit and fun in his speeches as
Henry Vincent himself, and more eloquent
than ever ; and though he didn't give 'em
that savage, bitter style with which he had
electrified the Stroud Valley Chartists, there
wasn't a town or village where he spoke
but heaps of men, and women too (Davie

was always a mighty favourite with the
women) begged and prayed him to come
again soon ; and many a place wanted to
send him straight away from the meeting
up to the Queen and her ministers to tell
them what poor people were suffering,
certain that she would do all he wanted.

But though Davie liked all this sort of
thing as much as most men, and got his
head turned a little, I'm afraid, by all the
praise and nattering he got, there was a
stronger magnet still drawing him back to
London ; and he knew what we said was
true, that, if he kept much longer away
from the bench, he wouldn't be able to get
a place in any good shop for a long time.
So he came back as soon as his engagements
were over, and we got him a berth
with a very good firm ; but we had to clap
an alias on him, for he would never have
got work, then, under his own name. The
first question most foremen would have
asked, or, at all events, the first the master
would have asked at pay-time, would have
been whether he was "that d d Chartist

fellow who went about trying to make
folks discontented, and put them up to
plundering, burning," &c, &c.

So Davie Eoberts settled down again to
humdrum work with hammer and chisel,
compass, plane, and centre-bit, not
altogether, it must be confessed, quite
contentedly. When he was down at
Broadfield it was all right enough, and
many and many a happy Saturday evening
and Sunday they two passed together.
But in the shop and after work in his
lodgings, or at the " public," he was often
very glum. I could see he was fretting
sometimes to be out again, and on the platform,
amusing the honest, hard-handed
serfs who welcomed our Chartist orators as
if they were angels from heaven. And the
way the Convention was going on, and the
Parliament folk, too, on their side, was not
likely to make a true Chartist easy at his
work or anywhere else.

Still Davie now stuck to his trade very
fairly. But trouble was in store, though
the sky was pretty clear for a time. Kitty

Barber had lost both father and mother,
and lived with an aunt, who, though a good
woman in the main, didn't understand
much about keeping young girls in order,
and hadn't authority enough to manage
her niece wisely, even if she had known
how. So the poor motherless thing ran
almost wild, and, but for Maggie Thatcher,
would have had scarce any guidance or
help in living a decent sort of life. She
wasn't at all a bad sort of girl in herself,
and for a time was very fond of Maggie,
as she had reason to be. But she was
vain and selfish, and very giddy. She
never meant to sting her benefactress ;
but when she saw that the lad idiom
above all others she liked best out of the
whole school was " keeping company " with
her friend, an evil spirit seemed to enter
into her heart, and at times she hated that
friend " like poison." But in general, I
fancy, she was only thoughtless and selfish,
just like most of us, and would say, when
she had done a mean or cruel thing, " Oh,
I didn't think," meaning she thought only

of herself. Unless we do think about something
else beforehand, I've noticed it is
generally too late when the temptation
comes, for then we do just what we like,
ivithoid thinking. But, for all this, Kitty
was just the kind of girl to please a man,
very pretty and very lovable, too, in her
way. It was a silly, flighty, sort of way,
but none the less attractive to many whom
she could make fools of. It was an evil
day when she began to say, and kept on
saying, " Well, I don't see but what I've
as good a right to win Davie Roberts' love
as that sulky young vixen, Maggie Thatcher.
I know he's many a time shown he's liked
me a deal better than any one else."

Said Maggie Thatcher, however, troubled
her head very little about Miss Kitty's
jealousies, for the good reason that she knew
nothing of them. She continued trying
to do the wayward girl all the good in her
power, though sometimes hurt and surprised
at Kitty's behaviour. Davie Roberts' love
was everything to her, and enabled her to
bear cheerfully much more troubles at home

than any she met with outside. Her father
went on just in the old way, except that he
never lifted his hand against either his wife
or children, while the poor woman's health
got worse, and the younger children more
fractious," day by day, in spite of all that
Maggie could do to mend matters. Davie's
presence of an evening, however, was
always a " cheer-up " — the mother ceased
complaining, the children listened with
delight to his queer stories, even the surly
father came home earlier from the " Three
Blackbirds," and in a better temper than
usual, to listen also, and sometimes got
quite pleased and interested in hearing
about Davie's experiences in the West, and
in discussing the grievances of the poor.
So this was indeed a happy time for Maggie
Thatcher compared with her previous life,
and she blossomed out, both in face and
mind, till Davie was more in love with her
than ever.

Once he took her to spend a whole Saturday
in the Remorse Gardens, and a very
happy day it was. There was music, and

flowers, and lots of happy-looking work-people,
and climbing boys, and wonderful
acrobats, and Davie all the time holding
her hand. And then the mid-day meal ina
pleasant little nook, and more music and
exhibitions and games, and tea in an arbour,
with the moon rising through the trees,
and then fireworks, and then riding home
in the summer night, a-top of an omnibus,
with his arm round her to make sure
against her falling off. " Oh, it's just
heavenly ! " sighed the happy girl with her
head on his shoulder, more than once,
before it was all over.

True, there were sights to be seen in
the gardens before they left, anything but
heavenly, and which make decent folks ask
why must public places of amusement be
thus disgraced ? But Maggie and Davie
were wrapped in their o vvn pure and mutual
love, and there was little room in their
hearts for the entrance of evil thoughts.
So the remembrance of that day was ever
afterwards like a very beautiful dream,
but more abiding and intensely real than

any dream. They both knew they had
once at least, and for many hours, been
full of deep and unmixed happiness, and
they were the better able all their lives to
believe in the blessedness that might yet
be to come.

CHAPTER X.

About this time I was sent by our foreman
to do a bit of a job at a fine house near
Kensington Gore; and think how I was
struck all of a heap " by seeing my young
gentleman again, Master Fletcher, lolling
on a sofa in the drawing-room, when we
went in with our shoes off to look at the
curtain frame. He didn't know me, but I
wanted badly to ask him if he didn't remember
" Jem Woodford" (for I always felt
drawn to him, like), and yet the foreman
being there too, made me more backward
in speaking ; but when we came down in
the dinner-hour, I told the groom (who was
then in the servants' hall) how I used to
know him, and asked all about him, for I
wondered how he came there. So, says

VOL. I. N

Bill, the groom, " Oh, he's just on a visit
here now, and a first-rate rider he is too,"
and when I asked him a little more, he
answered, " Oh, he takes it easy, he do ;
he's always riding or walking in the parks
or lolling on that 'ere soft ; and I hear as
how he's a Government artist and writes
for the play, too, and flirts — oh, my !
doesn't he flirt with the young missis ! ' '
When wee went up to the drawing-room,
after their lunch, my young gentleman was
gone, and I hadn't another chance of
speaking to him. But I came across him
again, I'm glad to say, or rather he came
across me. Not many months after that
I heard a voice I thought I knew, one
evening — some one talking with our landlady
about her first floor front ; and going
out into the passage (for, thinks I, if it be
him I won't miss him again if I can help it),
who should I see coming down the stairs
with another gentleman but young Mr.
Fletcher. I touches my cap to him, and
says, " Good evening, Mr. Fletcher ; you
won't be remembering me, I dare say, but

it isn't so many a long day since we were
down together by the Thames wharf ; nor,
for the matter of that," says I, getting
bolder, " since you drove me about with
the wheelbarrow;" and then he gave such
a pleasant laugh, and said, "What, Jem
Woodford, where have you been all this
time ? " So I just told him, and asked him
if he was coming to lodge with our landlady,
and he said no, he wasn't, but his
friend was, for she had got a room at the
back of the house which would just suit fora
" studio " I think he called it. " You see,
Jem, this gentleman is going in for painting.
I don't mean house-painting, but pleasant
work than that, and what I hope will pay
better." Think how I was taken aback
when I found Mr. Fletcher's friend was
Mr. Haughton, who had left Oxford. So
he did come to lodge at our house, and
fitted up the room over the stables at the
back of his drawing-shop, and there he
worked away like a dozen.

Mr. Fletcher told me he had been studying
at Oxford since he used to be at then
2

wharf at Rotherhithe, having had some
thoughts of being a parson, hut had given
it up. And then I soon told him why I
didn't like the sight of Mr. Haughton, and
he said slowly, half to himself, as it were,
Yes, I'm afraid he's no better than
many others. But you see, Master Jem,
that's just why I want him to work
hard at his ' profession. He has plenty
of good in him, my friend, depend upon
it, whatever you Radical fellows may think
of the broadcloth. For I suppose you area
dangerous Radical like the rest of your
class?"

Well, I should have rather liked kicking
Mr. Haughton down-stairs, nevertheless,
the first time I met him on them, though I
didn't know all the bad about him till later
on. But I knew I had no business to make
a row in my landlady's house, and I should
only have been taken to the police-station
and all for what ! Because he had
chosen to make love to our Maggie. Well,
I suppose he had a right to do that, as
much as Davie or I. It's a great pity one

can't thrash a scoundrel, sometimes, before
he's done mischief.

Of course I should never have gone
near his room, hadn't Mr. Fletcher come
to see him now and then, and asked me
once or twice to come up and have a
chat there. I always went then, for I
dearly liked a talk with my old young
master.

But one night, in particular, I remember,
it wasn't so pleasant. It was when there
had been a great meeting of Chartists, and
all London was talking about it; and says
Master Edward to me, " Why, Jem, what
have those noisy blackguards been about
to-day ? You have nothing to do with
them, I hope ? " " What blackguards, sir,"
says I ? " Wiry, those Chartist fellows;"
and thereupon I fired up in a moment, and
said quite blunt, " You don't know what
you are talking about, sir, to call them
blackguards ; there are first-rate respectable
men among 'em, and very honest men,
too, that you might be proud to be
acquainted with." He seemed taken a

little aback with this, and they both looked
at me from head to* foot.

Mr. Haughton laughed more than I
liked, and said, " I say, Fletcher, we must
take care of our pockets." Now workingmen
are generally pretty quick to take
offence if they are chaffed by their betters,
and I told Mr. Fletcher he didn't ought to
have asked me up there to have me and my
friends talked about in this way.

"Well, well," said he rather ,
" I didn't know they were
friends of yours, Woodford. We didn't
wish to hurt your feelings, and I don't
suppose you would join them in a 
party."

Excuse me, Mr. Fletcher," said I, " but
you've no right to talk of honest men in that
way. They only want to get their rights."

Don't you believe any such nonsense as
that, Woodford," he answered me quite
sharp.

"Why," cried Mr. Haughton, "don't
you know, Fletcher, what the Chartists
want is ' Universal Suffering and Animal
Parliaments ! "

You gentlemen have got the last," said
I rather sulkily, " for your genteel snobs in
the House crow like cocks as well as bray
like donkeys when they want to put down
an honest man." They laughed, but I
didn't mind, and stood up for my Chartist
comrades, and was going to say something
about William Lovett, but I could see
Mr. Fletcher didn't like it, and was so cool
and shy of me, and the other young sprig
was smiling so sneeringly, that I very soon
wished them good-night, and walked out of
the room rather in a huff. Well, they
didn't seem to care to have any more talk
about Chartists after this, but we did talk
about other things now and then, and after
a bit I found Mr. Edward quite as pleasant
and taking as ever. I don't think he was
much spoilt by all the gay life he seemed to
be leading, for all he was working so hard,
too, at his new business ; and he used
sometimes to give me a ticket for the
theatre and for a picture-gallery or two.
But still I don't mean to say that he wasn't
rather on the high horse with me at times,
and perhaps a trifle more after he found I

was an out-and-out Chartist ; though T did
make matters a little better in that quarter
by telling both him and his friend there was
a great difference between physical-force
Chartists and moral-force Chartists, and
by letting out a little against Feargus
O'Connor. However, he finished up once
by saying, " Well, Jem, I believe you area
thorough good fellow yourself, but as for
the Chartists generally, I would not like to
touch them with a pair of tongs ; I only
hope they'll all come to grief as soon as
convenient, and I think the less we hear of
'em the better."

Another evening, I remember, when my
young master had asked me if I'd like to
come up and see his friend's painting, he
began saying what a jolly life it was to be
always at work in trying to produce such
beautiful things as Mr. Haughton was
painting and such as I had seen in some
picture-gallery to which he had sent me the
Saturday before, " but we won't talk about
Chartism, Woodford," he said pleasantly.
So says I, looking at the painting, which

seemed very beautiful, " It's a fine thing,
sure, to be always engaged in work of this
kind, and a deal pleasant than to be
always planing and sawing." Well, he and
Mr. Haughton laughed quite pleasantly,
and Mr. Fletcher said he wished a few more
folks could have better work than that
everlasting sawing and planing. " But I'm
coming among you fellows, Jem, after all,

for I have joined Messrs. ," naming

one of the largest firms in the building
trade.

I opened my eyes in amazement, and
he went on, " Yes, after the break-down
of those experiments at Eotherhithe my
father took me into his own counting-house
a little while, but there's nothing to be got
out of that wretched banking business now.
The Joint Stocks are going to make a clean
sweep of us." " Indeed," said Mr. Haugh-ton,
" your governor lives in pretty good
style on nothing, then." " Oh, there's
enough for him and the establishment at
Broadfield Hall, but no margin for me, my
boy. It takes 3000Z. a year to keep up

the game there. So I must try my luck
with one of his customers." They laughed,
but I w r went away thinking what queer
differences there are between middle-class
notions of enough to live upon and those
which we have.

But I was thinking also about the painter-gentleman's
way of getting a livelihood ;
and I thought (as Mr. Fletcher said) it was
all very pleasant for Mr. Haughton, no
doubt. Somehow I had come to think
better of that gentleman, and I liked to see
how happy he seemed to be at his work. Hardwork
of any kind seems to make any fellow
the better for it. But at last there came
the day when all the folks who had been
drawing pictures for the exhibition of what
he said was the Royal Academy, had to
send them in to the judges, and that was
not nearly such a pleasant piece of business.
I could see the young man was mighty
anxious about what they would say to his
picture ; and though he tried to pass it off
in a light sort of way, I knew he was in a
great fright all the same about whether this

picture would be taken in by the " hanging
committee," as he called it. And then at
last there came the day when their answer
reached him ; and he sent for me to go upto
his room one Saturday afternoon. Mrs.
Taylor told me she thought he was rather
down in the mouth ; and sure enough there
he was, sitting with one arm over a chair,
and his head bent down on his hand, and
he looked just like one of our fellows when
the master's onyen him the sack. As he
heard me come in he picked himself up, and
said in a half-cheery sort of way, though I
could see it was rather forced, " Well,
Master Jem, we all have our luck, I suppose,
good, bad, or indifferent, and now I have
mine, and precious bad it is." " What is
on now, sir?" I says. "Well," says he,
they won't take my picture, and all the
work, I'm afraid, has gone for nothing ;
and there's worse than that behind. However,
we must all bear our troubles like
men, and there's no use whining about it,
so here goes," and he handed his picture
over to me, the poor picture he had taken

so much pains about (and very beautiful I
thought it, and I wondered how any committee
could have the heart to refuse it),
saying, " There, take it away, my man, I
can't bear the sight of it."

Soon he added, " Now, Master Jem, I
want you to nail it down in that case and
put a couple of leather straps on; d'ye
understand? It's going to the picture-dealers."
So I said I'd do it. But I could
not help thinking, when I saw how
wretched he was that evening and for some
days after, and how he went and flung
himself away afterwards, that it might have
been better for him after all to have been
only planing and cutting wood than
painting all those beautiful figures which
he had got on his canvas. But, lor' ! what
a difference there is between doing pleasant
things to get paid for them, or, at all events,
expecting to get paid for them, and finding
out that folks don't want what you have
been working at so hard after all ! How
curiously things do jump together sometimes
! I remember, full twenty years

after that Saturday, I was at one of those
new places that were springing np all
about, called " Workmen's Clubs," and as
I came into the place I smelt a very savoury
smell, and the steward looked up at me as
I passed the bar of his kitchen, where he
was making some apple-turners, and very
happy he looked, and still more as if he
enjoyed the thought of what the work was
going to bring him when he had sold all his
turners to the members. About half an
hour after, when I was up in the bagatelle-room,
up comes my steward with a tray full
of beautiful pies,- and showed them to the
company, expecting there would be a
general rush to buy them. Well, I could
not get out of my head for some time the
poor fellow's look of dismay and vexation
when he found there wasn't one of the
members inclined to fork out 2d. for the
turners, and thinks I again to myself,
Oh, there's a deal of difference between
pleasant work, and getting paid for it.
The rough work after all, or leastways work
for getting up those things that folks fancy

needful for their necessaries and comfort,
pays best, though it is not so pleasant, maybe,
doing at the time."

And this reminds me of what a deal of
rubbish I've heard in my time since I mixed
more with what are called the middle
classes, about what they call a " genteel
occupation." Thousands of unfortunate
young fellows every year are brought up to
be clerks of one kind or another, or " count
perhaps, because that life is
supposed to be more genteel or respectable;
and then, too late, they find they can't get
even a bare living, and yet must keep up
the outside look of a gentleman to have
even a chance of employment. I've often
wondered why tradesmen and clerks don't
put their boys oftener to learn a trade,
which would give them not only a better
chance of a livelihood, taking all the year
round, at least as far as clerks are concerned,
but would give them, I think, a
deal more interesting work to do than bookkeeping,
or quill driving, or selling the
same thing day after day over a counter.

A mechanic is always making some thing
or other that's useful (and I remember
Mr. Fletcher telling me once that a poet at
first meant " a maker "), cutting or carving
or putting together, and there's plenty of
room for skill and for thinking about your
work, and you see it growing under your
hands, and then at last, when it's finished,
why there it is, something to look at and
use, and perhaps admire. But, when a
showman's clone selling, there's not much
left to look at ; so that if a maker of useful
things only knows how to do his work welland
takes a pride in it, his life in the workshop,
spite of all the drawbacks, is a very
happy one, and that helps mainly to make
his whole life happy. But, then, there it
is — so many workmen don't know or care
how to do their work in the best way, and
don't take any pride in it at all, but only
want to get it done anyhow, and get paid
as much as they can on Saturday night.

But if the middle class are foolish in the
matter of gentility, so are some of the
working-men themselves, for you'll often

see a man who's a bit cleverer than the

rest so anxious and scheming to get out of

the ranks of workmen — discontented and

miserable, because he's expected to say

Sir " to his employer, and to " take

orders " instead of giving them. But then

I know this is sometimes the fault of masters

and foremen, who don't treat the workmen

as they ought to do. Still, I do say it is

far better to make oneself a good workman

than to try to get above your work and be

called a gentleman. If it be said that I

myself have got out of the hand-labour

ranks, I answer that was because I was

pressed by my master to take one job after

another until I was an employer almost

without knowing it. I didn't bother and

chatter about becoming " genteel," and

being addressed as " Esq," which always

seemed to me great flummery. I only tried

to do as well as I could, whatever work was

set before me; at least if I knew I was able

to do it at all. That's the long and short

of the matter.

As to getting rich, it seems to me that

money is made, in the long-run, by doing
ivhat you don't like, and sticking to it. And
when you come to turn it over, that's the
way, I rather think, in which all real, I
mean lasting, success is gained in everything.


Of course there are lucky hits, and
flukes," as folks call them now-a-days,
that bring in a lot of money or fame all of
a sudden. But I've noticed that doesn't
often stay by a man.

I had better mention here that Mr.
Haughton left Mrs. Taylor's not long after
his picture had been refused, and I thought
when I happened to mention his name that
Mr. Fletcher seemed growing shy of him,
pleasant and sparkling as he was. I believe
the disappointment sent him down-hill
faster than he was going before; while
success might have made a man of him.
But I don't fancy he had ever gone the
right way to get success anywhere. However,
he still kept painting ; sometimes,
though, he did other things besides to get
money, not quite so respectable. He was

vol. i. o

a great deal too much at a certain theatre
I know, and I was uncommonly sorry, one
night, to hear that Kitty Barber had been
sitting to him for what they call " a model."
But cards, I heard, were his chief business.
There were several other workmen lodged
in our house, or next door, besides myself,
and many a curious talk we have had
together when we met at a neighbouring
public," and sometimes (when we could
do without a fire) a few of us would meet
in a bedroom and sit on the truckle beds
talking till bed-time, or stroll in the parks.
I remember there was a Richard Fleming,
carriage-window maker, employed in the
Great Western Railway works at Padding-ton.
Many a time I have sat up listening
to his talk, though I cannot remember
much of it now, except his pitching into
piece-work " one night, which he said was
Old Nick's device for men working themselves
into early graves just to give their
masters fine houses and horses. " A fair
price for ' day-work, ' " he would say, " but,
mind you, no devil of a foreman to drive

and nag you. Why should a fellow always
be sweating and tearing along just to earn
extra profits for his employer, and wear his
own internals (he didn't use that word, but
it's more polite) to fiddle-strings ? " I
have heard some men, though, stand up
for piece-work as the best thing for the menas
well as the masters, and it does seem a
deal more fair for both parties, but there is
a lot to be said on both sides. And, as
Davie said, all work in the iron trade and
most factory work is done and paid for by
the piece. " Ay, ay," explained Fleming
with a thump on the table, " but, all the
same, it's a big shame men should have to
work themselves to death to earn a fair
wage. But, mind, mate, I don't complain
of fellows doing it with their eyes open and
of their own free will to put money in their
own pockets. What I fight against is their
doing it to put money in the employers'
pockets. What do they care about us, I
should like to know ? Many a time I've
seen a man that had worked well for the
same firm for thirty or forty years, spotted
o 2

by the master, and then the foreman gets a
hint that So-and-so is getting rather weak
in his wrists or his knees, eh ? Can't keep
him on much longer ! Then the poor
fellow gets sacked." " True enough," said
I, " but, after all, the man had received his
wages all those years, I suppose. And it
would be rather awkward for the masters
if they had to give annuities as well as
wages." But the remark wasn't very well
received.

I remember another good fellow that
used to crony with us, Jem Burt, who took
to me because my name also was Jem. He
was but a young chap, not used to town
when he first came, so I could give him a
wrinkle or two. He lodged with us at
Mrs. Taylor's, and when I first knew him
he hadn't been regularly apprenticed, and
was what is called an "improver" at a
large cabinet-maker's shop in the West-end.
Well, one Saturday night he comes home
regular down in the mouth — had got discharged,
and no mistake. " What is it for,
Jem ? " says I. So then he told me how

lie bad always tried to do his best, but the
foreman said he was a deal too slow ; they
wanted work turned out sharp and quick,
and " he didn't ought to spend such a lot
of time over it." " And at last he said I had
better go and try to get a situation in some
amateur gentleman's workshop where they
only did fancy-work, and where there were
no customers. So," says Jem, " I'm
blowed if ever I'll take pains with my work
again, 'kept to get it out of hand and done
with." " Ay, but," I replied, " there are
other firms in the West-end besides

's, and at some of them you will find

good work is cared for more than fast work,
if I've heard rightly." Next week he went
round to them all, but trade was slack, and
there were more men being turned off than
taken on ; and, as he had never joined a
Trades' Society before he was discharged,
he had no box to come upon, and the poor
fellow was very hard up. We made a little
levy for him, but of course that didn't last
long.

One night, when he had come home in

great trouble, after trying to get a berth all
day long, I remember good Mrs. Taylor
(she was rather unhappy about him, and,
in fact, had let him run on without paying
rent for three weeks), I remember her
coming down-stairs from young Mr.
Haughton's room. "Yes, yes, there's
trouble enough for you down here, but I
don't know but what there's more up
there," and then she told us, while I sat
listening with open ears, how, because the
young gentleman's picture had been
rejected by the Royal Academy, he meant
to give up painting altogether, and emigrate,
or something of that kind. I wish
he had. I'm certain that man had a bad
heart, but Mrs. Taylor, like all the women,
was taken in with his pleasant, winning
ways and handsome face.

But when he was going away, and I was
nailing down the picture in the packing-case,
he called Mrs. Taylor upstairs and
told her his friend Mr. Fletcher was very
ill, and had nobody to look after him
properly, because he wouldn't let his family

be told, and the people at his lodgings were
too busy to wait upon him. " Bring him
here, Mr. Haughton, as you're going to
leave," said Mrs. Taylor at once — for she
had often seen him and liked him, " if he'll
bear moving. I'll nurse him with all my
heart." So the poor gentleman was brought
to Mr. Haughton's room, and Mrs. Taylor
came out uncommonly strong in the nursing
line, and when I was at home, of course I
waited on him. He was rather light-headed
that night, and Mr. Haughton gave us a
hint to keep his razors locked up, for he
raved in a way that would have frightened
weak nerves. Mrs. T. could not make it
out at first, but I understood, for I
remembered something about a young lady
as far back as Rotherhithe days, and what
I had seen lately at the private theatricals.
The doctor looked so grave the next day
when I was home in the dinner-hour, that
I risked it, and set off at once for Broadfield
House, and brought back the young gentleman's
mother. However, he had a strong
constitution, and pulled through, but was

very weak for a long time afterwards. His
mother was a fine, gracious lady, and when
she went away thanked me in a manner I
couldn't forget, and sent me, from herself
and her son, she said, the books of all
others I most wanted, but couldn't afford
to buy, Nicholson's " Practical Carpenter
and Joiner," and " The Builders' Practical
Directory," huge volumes, and handsomely
bound into the bargain, worth a mighty
deal more than any little service I'd done
for them. But I suppose Master Edward
told her what would suit me.

When he was leaving he told me very
sadly, I thought, that he was giving up all
idea of business, and should probably go to
Oxford or Cambridge again for a time.
Talking about it in the evening, I said I
wondered why he should go there, and
Mrs. Taylor, who had been handsomely paid
for her trouble, and who had got her apron
to her eyes when she came down from his
room, said she was pretty sure the poor
young gentleman was thinking of " taking
orders."

Why, we take plenty of them," says
Burt, who was always rather droll, even in
his troubles, " and think ourselves lucky to
get 'em, don't we, Woodford ? What's the
gentleman bothering about that for?" I
didn't quite understand what all his trouble
was about then ; but both Mrs. Taylor and
I knew it was something very bad indeed,
if he were going to be a clergyman.

The poor young gentleman put the best
face on it, however, that he could ; and
when he was going, and while I was helping
him to pack up his togs, he talked away
quite cheerful like, but rather fast and wild,
I thought.

Then he went away, and wouldn't tell
any of us where he was going ; but when I
tried to say a cheery word, and spoke of old
times, just to show I knew what a gentleman
he was, and how he came from a set
of brave " ancestors," he gripped my hand
tight, and couldn't trust himself to speak,
for he was still weak and shaky, but hurried
away to the cab that was waiting at the
door.

CHAPTER XI.

As I said somewhere before, I didn't
care to go as much to Broadfield while
Roberts was going backward and forward,
as I should have done, and as after father
and mother were both at rest and I couldn't
see them any more, I sometimes wished I
had done. For, indeed, I thought a good
deal of the old folks, and I know they
thought much, perhaps too much, of me. I
was their only child that grew up, and we
loved each other dearly. But I thought
they guessed — in fact, to make sure, I just
hinted to mother one day — why I didn't
come oftener at that time. I was glad
Maggie and Davie were so happy together,
and that I had helped to bring it about.
But I wasn't bound to make myself miserable

with seeing them together, and I was
attending the Chartist Convention as often
as I could, and reading besides all the books
of every sort I could lay my hands on —
Euclid among the rest — and I went long
walks on the Sunday with Burt or some of
my shop-mates, partly to give my mind
something better to think of than a couple
of young fools spooning about together.

One Sunday when I had gone home (it-seems
only the other day), I recollect dear
mother saying, like the foolish fond mother
she was (only foolish about me), " What
makes you so glum, Jem, now-a-days ? I
should think there wasn't any girl a young
man like you oughtn't make up to, not any
as I know, eh, father ; isn't Jem good
enough for the best of them ? " " Ah,"
says father, looking up with his quiet queer
smile, " James is a rare sensible lad, but I
can't say he's much of a beauty." Mother
could not help laughing any more than me.

And the girls think a great deal of
good looks, you know, mother," said I as
soon as I could. " Well, let them ! " cried

she, " and I say, though I don't think Jem
had much to boast of as a boy, he's been
growing a fine young fellow to look at — "
No, no," I interrupted, laughing outright,
you're a dear old mother, but that's a
regular bounce ; and I see mothers are
pretty much the same all the world over ! "
"I tell you what," said father, "he's a
good son, and a neat joiner, and handsome
is that handsome does." Then mother got
up and came and kissed me. And I'm fool
enough to remember it all, and write it
down forty years after.

So, taking all things together, I was
rather pleased when the younger Mr.
Grrapnell sent for me one day and said,
"Woodford, here's an old friend of mine,
a builder, down at Eastleigh, in Somerset-shire,
wants me to. get him a good steady
leading-hand for a large job he's got there.
I think you would suit him. London
wages. Would you like to go ? But, if
you do, you must stick to it, and promise
not to leave for twelve months if he wants
to keep you." I thanked him, and said I'd

like it very much, but I never had worked
yet as a leading-hand. " Oh," said he,
Mr. Stone (our foreman) says you often
set out the men's work for them, and that
you are quite fit for it, so that's settled,
and you must do us credit." Now I owed
this promotion to the classes I had attended,
and to working at geometry at nights,
which I mention now for the benefit of my
younger mates. But I was sorry to leave
the Convention, just when Mr. Lovett, too,
and his party wanted all the support they
could get. And I told him so, but he only
said cheerily (though his face always looked
rather sad, I fancied), " Never mind, my
man, you can do good work for the Charter
down at Eastleigh as well as in London.
Do your best, James, and I shall always
be glad to hear from you." These words
made me feel proud, and ready to do or
give up anything for the good cause,
though, indeed, the state of hundreds of
thousands of my countrymen in all parts
of the kingdom at that time, and for years
after, was quite miserable enough to make

one go through fire and water to help
them, without a word from my noble-hearted
leader.

So I went down to that pretty little
Somersetshire town, and dull enough I
found it at first. There was a deal of building
going on for the Squire, (who lived in a
large hall about a mile off, ) both in his own
mansion and in the cottages and stabling ;
so there were a number of men in the
building trades all lodging in the town,
and I soon got pretty comfortable. Before
very long I found that most of them were
regular back-bone Chartists, and of course
we took in several copies of the " Northern
Star." But, just as it was in London,
they were divided into two parties ; there
were the out-and-out Feargus O'Connor
men and the admirers of William Lovett.
I needn't say that the men I cotton' d to
were the latter party ; and one of the best
men among them — a sort of leader — was
named John Bembridge. He was superintendent
of the Sunday School of a small
dissenting chapel in the town, and when

he found what a warm partisan I was of
Lovett's he took to me very heartily, and
invited me to come and help him teach in the
school. He was working at the Squire's,
but for some time he had been living
regularly in the town, and working for the
resident builder who had got the contract.
I spoke to him as soon as I well could about
Jem Burt, and to my great satisfaction, as
well as poor Burt's, he got him taken onto
help make the Squire's new book-cases.
When he came down (we had to send him
the money to pay his fare) he looked a
regular guy, and about as thin as the
living skeleton," so we advanced him a
few more shillings to rig him out before
going to work, for he wasn't hardly decent.
Oh, Jem," said I, " you've learnt your
lesson, I hope, and mean to join your
Trades' Union now." He assured me,
eagerly, that if there was a lodge at East-leigh
he'd join the first pay-day after
repaying us, and would have done so in
London if he had got work. All the other
cabinet-makers in the shop were in the

Union, so there was no difficulty in Burt's
making this insurance against reduced
wages or loss of employment when the
money came in. More than once in after-years
he said to me, " Can't think, Jem,
how it is men don't all belong to a Trades'
Union. What a miserable helpless lot weare
without it ! "

A curious feature in the Chartist agitation
came before us one night at Eastleigh
in this way. The Anti Corn-Law agitation
was beginning to be felt throughout the
kingdom, and, as we have already seen,
was even invading the agricultural towns
of the South. Deputations from the
Council, of its ablest speakers, were sent
to most of the principal towns, but its
paid agents penetrated everywhere. One
of them, a Mr. Sidney Smith — a very
clever, eloquent chap he was, too — took our
Somerset town in the course of his travels,
and was talking for about two hours in the
large room of the principal inn, with one
of the leading gentry of the place in the
chair. Nobody but that gentleman would

have ventured to preside, for everybody
else almost was dependent on the favour of
the landowners and the farmers for a livelihood
— from lawyers, doctors, shopkeepers,
tradesmen and schoolmasters, down to the
poorest working-man. Well, it was the
tip given us from headquarters at that
time to go to all Anti-Corn-Law meetings,
and, after the lecture or speeches had been
given, we were to move resolutions declaring
that nothing would really meet the
wants of the country and remove the
terrible suffering which the Anti-Corn-Law
lecturer truly described, except the passing
of the People's Charter. So a tidy little
knot of us had squatted ourselves together
at one end of the room ; and after Mr.
Sidney Smith sat down, up gets our friend
Bembridge with, " Mr. Chairman and
Gentlemen, I rise to move a resolution
which I think will meet the wants of the
case better than anything going to be proposed
by the gentleman who has given us
this learned and eloquent address." At
the first sign of opposition in the camp,
VOL. i. p

the whole meeting (which had been getting
rather sleepy-like) gathered itself together
and pricked np its ears amazingly; but
they let Bembriclge go on pretty quietly
for the time, the more so as our fellows
cheered him at every fourth or fifth
sentence. Before long, however, there
was a regular row. The chairman refused
to let the speakers on our side go on, and
at last the meeting broke up, like many
another of the same sort, in confusion.
We little knew then how much of what we
had to complain about was caused by those
abominable Corn Laws, and what a terrible
mistake our leaders were making in hindering
their speedy repeal. But there was a
deal to be said for the mistake ; as I've
heard it said, we were something like a blind,
helpless giant : we didn't know what to door
say, or, if a few of us did, like Lovett
and Bembridge, Bronterre O'Brien, Moore,
Vincent and Lower, we could never get a
chance of fair play or a hearing among the
middle and upper classes.

But I ought to mention here that the

Anti Corn-Law meetings were not the only
ones at which Chartists in those days
attended to move resolutions in favour of
the Charter. They frequently attempted
the same game at any public meeting
called for any purpose, and I can't defend
them at all on that road. I remember that
in 1844 they appeared in force at a great
meeting at Glasgow convened by Robert
Owen and his friends to propagate the
principles of Socialism. Here, however,
they met with a determined resistance,
and were beaten in the vote bv a great
majority. It is not generally known in
these days that the Socialist party then
had rather a strong Conservative bias in
regard to Chartism. Robert Owen and
his leading disciples, such as Alexander
Fleming, Lloyd Jones, William Pare, Abel
Heywood, Gr. J. Holyoake, and " Shepherd"
Smith, contended that mere political reforms
would be of little value, and insisted
on the superior need of social improvement.
Like Lovett and his friends, they were also
earnestly desirous of promoting education,

and the magnificent building in Manchester
now used for the Free Library, was built
by a company of Socialists and educational
apostles (of which Abel Heywood, I think,
was chairman) for a Hall of Science, where
lectures, classes, reading-rooms, &c, were
held, to minister to the education of the
operative class. The Socialist body at
that time was very strong. They had
above ninety branches in various parts of
the kingdom, and subscribed their money
with a self-sacrificing enthusiasm which, in
spite of the professed atheism of some
portion of the body, partook largely, I
think, of the true religious spirit. The
cross-currents, as one may say, of these
two movements — Chartism and Socialism
would afford matter, I fancy, for much
thought and study to those who care about
the history of our English working classes ;
but I must not go further into the matter
at present. But, no doubt, the great and
(often though not always) beneficent development
of modern co-operation is a
result of that much dreaded movement,

which was once scarcely less hateful in
the ears of middle-class and respectable
Englishmen than that of Chartism itself.
And the work of Owen in starting infant
schools at his sew Harmony, and in setting
on foot plans for the rational recreation
of the people, by means of concerts
and tea-meetings (which latter great institution
may be said to have originated with
him), as well as the part he took with the
late Sir Robert Peel in promoting factory
legislation, should always be remembered
to his honour.

Soon after I heard some of my mates
one evening talking about a person who
had started a cricket club, and who, they
said, was doing a good deal of good in the
parish, and he was the vicar's curate.

"Does a deal of good, does he? 1 ' said
Bembridge. " I wish those persons 'ud
show a bit more sympathy with workingmen
under their political wrongs. An
ounce of justice is worth a ton of charity
after all." But I didn't pay much attention
to their talk, and none of us had any

great love for " the cloth." Not that we
had any bad feeling towards them, but I
believe we mostly thought the whole Church
Establishment was a matter of money, and
that all clergymen did and said their doings
and sayings merely to get paid. So that
we had rather a feeling of contempt for
them, because we thought them so uncommonly
like hypocrites. The same with
regard to religion generally. There was
very little real enmity against it, as far
as I could see, among working-men. We
only thought it humbug, and not worth a
sensible man's troubling his head about.
What we wanted was to see how we could
make the best of this world, not of another.
But Bembridge was putting other thoughts
into our heads, when he talked about
Christianity, if it meant anything at all, as
meaning justice from the rich to the poor,
and fair play in politics as much as in a
street row.

One morning, as we tramped out to the
squire's — I can see the sun now just
rising over the trees in the park, and the

hares scudding home over the dewy,
sparkling grass — Bembridge and the rest
of us were boiling over with the thought
of a meeting we were going to hold in a
few days to welcome a Chartist of the
name of Bartram, who was coming out of
Rochester gaol, where he had had twelvemonths
of it for something the country
beaks called sedition ; and we were all to go
in procession to meet him ; and then he
was to spin us a yarn at a public meeting
at night. Of course this was nuts to me,
and rare fun I thought it ; which, however,
was a good deal more than the squire, or
any number of country squires and parsons,
were inclined to think of the matter.
However, we all meant to keep strictly
within the law ; and the meeting came off
in the large club-room of the " Spotted
Dog," which was crowded in every hole
and corner. Bembridge was called to the
chair, and made a really fine speech, in
which he drew the line very broad and
strong between the moral-force Chartists,
and those who wished to get the Charter

by physical force. He said the latter
meant either losing heart a great deal too
soon — for men must learn to wait patiently
for all great and important changes — or
else they had no real understanding of the
principles of liberty, which must always be
based on law and order, and that they
only wanted to throw the country into
confusion for the furtherance of their own
selfish purposes. And then he expounded
the principles of the Charter, and the need
of education to use it aright, in a way I
never heard before, except from the mouth
of William Lovett. Then he introduced
Mr. Bartram, who was of course much
cheered, both when we met him at first
near the gaol, and afterwards when he rose
to speak at the meeting ; but I can't say I
was much pleased by his remarks. Not
that there was anything violent about them ;
on the contrary, he seemed to have been
regular tamed down by prison diet, and
could only throw out a few big, commonplace
things about Britons and their rights
and some of the pet phrases hashed up from

the Northern Star. However, before the
Chairman rose to speak, wasn't I dum-foundered
at seeing one broadcloth gentleman
in the room with a white tie, sitting
close beside the Chairman, whom I recognized
at once as young Mr. Fletcher. If
the Archbishop of Canterbury and the Duke
of Wellington had been shaking hands with
Bembridge I should hardly have been more
astonished; but though I knew him at
once, his features were a good deal altered ;
he looked pale and thin, and yet there
was all the old pleasant expression, with
something added, which I liked better still,
and had never seen there before. Towards
the end of the meeting John Bembridge
asked him if he would say a few words,
which he did, and very sensible words they
were, expressing his sympathy with the
remarks of the Chairman, his earnest
desire to see working-men have all reasonable
redress for any real grievances, " but
ventured," he said, " to remind us that we
had duties as well as rights ; his wish was
to help us to do our duty, as far as it lay in

his power, but at the same time he knew
he was bound, as a minister of the Gospel,
to help us in obtaining our rights as
citizens, as Englishmen, and as men." Of
course that brought down great applause,
and when he rose to go the men made way
for him with great respect, many shaking
hands. I heard afterwards that young
Mr. parson got into a deal of trouble with
his rich folk for going to the meeting, and
that one of his church told him " he wished
he (Mr. parson) had ' been in bed and
asleep,' instead of going to the ' Spotted
Dog.' ' I could not go out after him then
very well, but found out where he lodged,
and wasn't very long in making my bow to
him there one evening. He shook hands
very heartily, made me sit down, and I
should think we were talking as friendly as
possible for two hours before I came away.
Well, Woodford," said he, "I suppose
you wondered at seeing me down at that
meeting in a white choker, but you know I
was more than two-thirds on the way to it
when I left Oxford and went into business.

And the fact is, Master Fern, I've had
a deal to 2:0 through since I saw you
last, and have learnt a few things which I
shan't forget in a hurry. Perhaps some
day I may tell you a little more about what
has made a pretty considerable change in
my notions of life, but the upshot of it
all is that I gave up my idea of being a
man of business, and have taken orders, as
they call it, and become a church parson.
After passing my examinations and getting
ordained, and then knocking about a little
time in London and the neighbourhood, I
got the curacy down here, and have been
working for about a twelvemonth in this
place." "And a very pretty place it is, sir,"
said I, "but I think you must find it uncommon
dull after London." " Dull ! " said
he, " I should rather think I do. I happened
to see a picture the other day of Robinson
Crusoe on his desert island, just after getting:
ashore, sitting: in his cave on one of
the boxes saved from the wreck, with his
head resting on his hands, and looking
about as miserable as if nobody had ever

been unhappy before, or at least half as
unhappy as he was. You see that is something
like what I felt when I first came
down here, and never knew what real
solitude was till then, or what it was to be
eating one's heart out and carrying a
cheerful smile on one's face all the time.
What made it a good deal worse was that
the two or three rich, educated folks here,
belonging to. my church, are about as hard
and cold and proud as if they were a cross
between Mammon and Beelzebub ; so I
never get any comfort in their society, I
am sorry to say, though that may be partly
my own fault. However, there is this
good come of it, Woodford — I learnt to
know and honour men of your class in a
way I certainly never did before, and I
suppose never should if I hadn't found my
only comfort in life in sitting at the fireside
of men like that John Bembridge, your
chairman at the meeting the other night.
A first rate fellow that ! "

Yes," said I, " a very fine fellow he is,
and a very fine speech he made."



"I tell you what, Woodford," said
Mr. Fletcher, taking me up sharp, " I've
learnt something from Bembridge and
others since I've been in Eastleigh. I
never knew till I came down here what
a lot of blessings I had had till I lost
them. But this I mean to do"— and his
voice became rather husky— " if ever I
get back again to that kind of life with all
its pleasant parties and sociable evenings
—to the music and drawing, and reading
and talking with friends ; to its dances,
and concerts, and dinners, Jem, and all
that sort of thing, which makes social life
beautiful and delightful and refining, I'll
bring the working men with me ! " Seeing
me staring at him, he went on, "Don't
you see that most of these poor fellows
have none of all these enjoyments— know
nothing of the kind of life I lived for many
years, and which comes so naturally to
middle and upper class folk that we think
nothing of it till we lose it ; while workingmen
have only the public-house and beer-shop,
and you know what that means. I've

seen a good deal of all the beastly work
that goes on in those places and afterwards,
and how the wives and children suffer
from it ; and all just because they must
drink and drink as long as, and whenever,
they want a little chat and a social glass.
Heaven help them ! and may it help me
some day to bring them out of all that ! "

He rose and walked about his little
room, clenching his hands, till I said,
Thank God, sir, you've come down here,
if that's what is to come of it, and I thank
Him, too, for bringing you amongst men
like Bembridge ; but I could show you
as good as he is up in London, and I only
wish you knew William Lovett himself."

"Well," said Mr. Fletcher, "I wish I
did know him; perhaps I shall some day.
You must give me an introduction."

But, sir," said I, " I thought you
fancied us Chartists a desperate bad and
dangerous lot; at least, you did when I
last had the pleasure of knowing you." I
didn't quite like looking the young gentleman
full in the face as I said this, but I

could see lie was colouring up a bit, and at
first he didn't answer ; but presently says
he, "Well, Jem, I was very wrong-headed
at that time about a good many things —
Chartists among the rest. But one of the
things that I have learnt lately is this : I
had met John Bembridge on two or three
occasions at the Mechanics' Institution
(where, however, there are not many
mechanics, but that is no fault of his), and
not hearing anything of his political views,
I always liked the sensible, manly way
in which he had handled any subject
he had to speak upon. For though he was
a Dissenter, I used to go and call upon
him, particularly when I should otherwise
have been inclined to go and han or
drown myself : and I never failed to feel a
better, wiser, and a stronger man for his
company. Well, one night I had gone to
see him as usual — he lived in a room over
the Mechanics' Institution — and his wife,
who took care of it, told me he was down
at a meeting in the lecture-room. It was
but a small place, and when I entered the

door I saw about twenty men, some of
them in their shirt-sleeves, sitting round a
long table, with Bembridge in the chair at
the head of it ; so I was going to back out,
when Bembridge gets up, comes forward
and says, ' Come in, sir ; we're only having
a bit of a talk about politics ; we shall be
very glad to see you.' So I sat down by
the fire and listened. But you, who know
what I used to think about Chartists, can
imagine what I felt when one of the company
struck his brawny arm on the table,
when his turn came to speak, and began,
4 Mr. Chairman, though I'm as good a
Chartist as any of you,' &c. What else
he said I have no idea. To tell the truth,
I had hard work to sit still ; I thought I
had fallen into a regular den of thieves,
and had it not been for my opinion of the
chairman, I should certainly have made for
the door pretty quickly, and never come
near the place again ; but I didn't like to
seem rude, after being treated so politely,
and certainly I didn't wish to hurt my
friend, the chairman's feelings. So I sat

it out for about half an hour longer, and
then came away, hardly knowing whether
I was on my head or my heels. Bainbridge
took an early opportunity of asking me
what I thought of the meeting, and I
guess he was not prepared to find such
bitter, unreasoning fear and hatred of everything
bearing the name of Chartist and
Chartism as I confess I showed. However
I listened quietly to a good deal he had
to say on the matter, till I could stand it
no longer ; and yet I could not give up the
subject altogether, and came to talk with
him at an early day. Then it was he
spoke to me in a way that I can tell you,
Master Woodford, privately, I think I shall
never forget to my dying day. He asked
me (and you know how stern he can look
sometimes) how I could find it in my conscience
that, preaching the Gospel every
week of my life, and asking men to follow
Christ, I should take no thought of all the
great and crying wrongs under which the
poor of this country were labouring. ■ Mr.
Fletcher,' said he one evening, quite
yoL. I. Q

solemnly, and in a way that seemed more
like what I expect to hear some day before
the Judgment-seat than anything I had
ever heard before in this world, ' do you
think that if Christ were on earth now, He
would be content to be preaching smooth
things for rich folks, or arguing about
words and texts, and names and creeds,
but never have a word to say about the
sufferings of the people, and all the oppressions
that are daily going forward under
the name of law?' And then he spoke
about class-legislation, and, on my word,
he drew such a picture of the iniquities of
the present state of things — social and
political — that I went home, almost
wondering how it was that any of the rich
folks or the parsons dare to walk about
the world, except in sackcloth and ashes.
I must, however, do him the justice to add
that when he was speaking at Mr. Bartram's
meeting he did says the poor would have
behaved as badly as the rich if they had been
in their places. However, to make a long
story short, he convinced me at last that if

Christianity meant anything at all, it meant*
justice from the rich to the poor, as well
as honesty from the poor to the rich ; that
the strong ougMfc not to use their strength
whatever the laws may say — in order to
oppress the weak, and for their own selfish
purposes ; but to lift up the down-trodden,
give light to them that are in darkness,
c undo the heavy burdens, and to let the
oppressed go free.' All this became clearer
to me by degrees. But then the terrible
riddle was, What are the means to be used
for bringing about a better state of things?"
Oh, I suppose Bembridge was clear
enough, sir, upon that point, too," said I ;
he showed you, I daresay, how we must
get the power of making and altering the
laws, if we are to have our interests fairly
attended to ?" " Yes," said Mr. Fletcher,
he said that when one set of persons
make the laws for another set, they are
pretty certain to make them for their own
interests. Working men would be sure,
he said, to have done the same ; and that,
in one way or another, all must get a
Q 2

voice in making the laws they are called
upon to obey ; that, in fact, the first step
in obtaining fair play for all classes will be
to get the People's Charter passed. I saw
there was a great deal of truth in what he
said, but could not go with him altogether.
So then, by Bembridge's advice, I wrote
Mr. Lovett all about it the next night (for
I had written to him about his views on
education before), and got back a fine
answer, just like himself; and there it is,
if you like to read it," which, I believe you,
I did.

The next Saturday afternoon I had the
pleasure of a long walk with Mr. Fletcher,
and I remember asking him whether he
really now thought the People's Charter
was the best way of getting just laws
passed for the people, and the bad ones
upset ?

Yes," he answered very firmly, " I do
now. I don't like the 'Annual Parliaments.'
but we can't square everything ina
great popular movement to our own taste.
But as for the other points, I think they

are most important, though I could not see
it for a long time. But Lovett's letter
was very able, and then Bembridge invited
me to a discussion on the subject where a
number of his friends were assembled ; and
for three weeks running I met them every
Monday night, and we had a regular set-to
over the merits of the Charter. At the
end of the chatter, I honestly confess, I
found that they had both reason and
common sense, as well as a kind of religious
principle on their side, and ever since that-time
I have always stood up for them, and
for the ( Six points ' wherever I was called
upon to speak on the subject at all."

"What, have you become a member of the
Society?" said I eagerly. For I was better
pleased than almost ever in my life before.

No," he answered, with a pleasant
smile, " not quite that; I don't choose to
rank myself with any political party, and
you may depend upon it that I have quite
enough to bear for taking the part of the
Chartists at all. Besides, I don't want to
leave this place just at present, as I think

I am doing some little good here ; and the
day on which I joined the Chartist Association,
or took the name of Chartist upon
me, would certainly be the last but a dozen
or two of my stay in this town."

Much of all this conversation seemed queer
enough to me at the time, for I didn't even
then quite understand what a name of
horror and fear that of Chartist was among
the middle and upper classes of the kingdom
in that day. Of course, I knew it was
disliked, but I had never fully felt with
what hatred and loathing the word and the
thing were regarded. It was the same
thing in the minds of a vast number of
persons with incendiarism, bloodshed,
pillage, and universal disorder. The
National Convention, of which we had
entertained such great hopes, had been
sitting in London for some time, but, I am
sorry to say, not to much purpose, and
some of the delegates showed a great deal
more zeal than judgment; and I can't
wonder at their behaviour and speeches
exciting immense fear, and even disgust,

among the property-classes. The worst
of the matter, however, was that men like
Lovett in London, and Bembridge in the
country, were not able to make themselves
sufficiently felt by the rank and file of
Chartist, or to get the real leadership.
The mischief that was being* done at this
time by Feargus O'Connor and his partisans
working mainly through the " Northern
Star" — is beyond reckoning. I believe
that Feargus was himself sincerely desirous
of seeing the Charter passed, and of giving
the working classes of the country a much
larger share of power than they then possessed
; but the extraordinary vanity and
jealousy of the man made the idea of
rivalry, or even companionship in power,
simply hateful to him ; and his whole force
was bent on keeping every man down in
the Chartist ranks who had any ability for
leadership, or who was supposed to have
it by any of the Chartist body. The effect
of this upon the movement was, of course,
ruinous ; all the best men in our body, all
the men of real thoughtfulness and purity

of aim, were either silenced or driven from
the movement by the suspicion and obloquy
directed against them through the agency
of Feargus and his supporters; and though
O'Connor himself by no means openly, or,
at all events, regularly, supported the
policy of physical force, yet his words and
speeches were continually framed so as to
cherish a desire for it amongst his followers,
and even to put them forward in the way
of attempting it, while he himself prudently
held back.

This is not the place for giving a history
of the Chartist agitation, and I only want
to jot down the impressions made on my
mind at the time, and proved by after-events.
I could see it all going on in
miniature down in that little country town,
and I know it was pretty much the same
in every other part of England. But the
O'Connorites had the enormous advantage
of possessing the only recognized newspaper
organ of the movement, and this
they worked in the most unscrupulous
manner for their own ends. Bronterre

O'Brien and one or two prominent men,
seeing and writhing under the injustice
and mischief caused by the one-sided
character the movement was assuming,
attempted at different times to start papers
of their own. All, however, to no purpose.
As too often happens, I suppose, in this
world, the evil-disposed are more numerous
and more successful than the men of
thought and high principle.

As regards the particular fortunes of the
Chartist agitation in our district, the meeting
to which I have just referred brought
on a sort of crisis, for the squire and many
of his friends in the neighbourhood, getting
thoroughly frightened, sent for our employer
one fine day, and told him that they would
not have any such " mischievous firebrands "
in the place ; and the squire said he would
rather have the contract thrown up and
pay the forfeit than that Bembridge and
others should be allowed to continue in his
employ ; while all the squires and well-to-do
folks joined in assuring our master that
they should entirely withdraw their custom

from him unless he discharged the ringleaders.
Of course, our master at once
p-ave John Bembrido;e and one or two more
the sack, and assured the county gentry
and clergy that he would never harbour
dangerous, scheming characters again, and
had got rid of all who were likely to do
harm. It was a gloomy night for us all
when Bembridge told us the news, and we
sat with our heads in our hands, boiling
over with anger and resentment, and
meditating schemes of revenge.

Indignation and schemes, however, were
all unavailing. The rest of us had to keep
our necks in the collar and grind away,
for it was our living, and we could better
afford to do something to support our unfortunate
leaders if we continued at work,
than if we had g-one out on strike, as we
very much longed to do. A volunteer levy
was made, of course, for we determined
that, at all events, we would not let Bern-bridge
leave the town ; and clubbing our
money together, with the help of a five
pound note from Mr. Fletcher, we got

enough to start him and his wife in a little
huckster's shop, which we hoped would
support them, and would still enable us to
have the benefit of his leadership and
advice. But I am sorry to say — and I say
it with shame — that some of our men
supported" the shop by dealing there,
running up a pretty good score, and then
failing to pay it. Added to his bad debts,
Bembridge found, after a time, that he
understood his trade much better than
how to buy and sell groceries ; so that
before very long he saw that if he was not
to be made a bankrupt, he must shut up
the shop and accept a situation in a London
furniture firm, which a friend had got for
him, and where nothing was said or known
about Chartists.

The matter was more serious, however,
for good Mr. Fletcher. Several leading
members of his parish, and his vicar, spoke
to him in a way which he was not at all
likely to stand ; and before long, on receiving
notice from his superior to resign his
curacy, he resigned not only that, but his

position in the Church of England too, and
tried for a time to work on as a nondescript
conventicle preacher (according to the
learned language of his late friends), by
opening a room for Sunday worship and
preaching on Sunday evenings. Of course
he had a good many hearers among us workmen,
and for the first time in my life I felt a
real, deep interest in what is called religion.
I don't exactly know wmy, but, as I said
before, I never had cared much for anything
I had heard either in church or chapel at
any time. I used not to care even forgoing
to hear Mr. Fletcher when he
preached at the church, because it seemed
rather tame and smooth, not hot and strong,
as we used to have it at toe Method chapel
in Broadfielcl ; while Bembridge's Dissenting
parson was so very hard at folks for
their sins. That was right enough, I know,
but it didn't help or instruct me much,
and besides, he often shot over one's head a
long way, so that I could not understand
very much of that ; and I thought that if I
were to go to a place of worship downright,

and be called a " saint " or a " Method "
for it in the shop, I might as well go in
for the regular thing anyhow. But then,
again, when I did go among the Independents
or the Baptists — especially when
they preached what they called Calvinism
it always seemed to me as if they were
talking a deal of blasphemy and rubbish.
I didn't believe a word of what the parson
said, even when I understood it, which
wasn't always. But after Mr. Fletcher
came out of his fine church pulpit, and
fired away in that low, long-ceiling room,
with its few flaring candles and bare black
benches, he used to make religion something
real like, and brought Christ's example
and character to bear upon the sins
of the world — both our own sins and those
of all the nation, not merely scolding us for
them, but showing how the Lord helps one
out of them, and all in a plain, simple way,
that to most of us was very helpful and
satisfying. Poor Bembridge, in the midst
of all his troubles, had that preaching to
cheer him. He knew, and we knew, that he

had been helping one minister of religion,
at least, to show working men that Christ
and Christianity did mean lifting off
heavy burthens and bringing them freedom
and justice, as well as soup-tickets and
tracts.

Before Mr. Fletcher had resigned his curacy
over that row, he had invited me one evening
to take a cup of tea with him at his lodgings,
and in the course of our chat he asked
me if I remembered a lady who had played
the principal part in those private theatricals
which I had been allowed to witness, after
fitting up the little stage for them? "Yes,
indeed," I said, " one would not very soon
forget her ! " He looked pleased, and took
out of a drawer a picture, which I saw at
once was the young lady he spoke of, and
I knew by the smile on his face, and the
way in w T which he looked at that bit of cardboard,
that he had special reasons for
liking to have it by him. So then he told
me he hoped the lady would some day
come down and keep house for him.
u For," said he, " in spite of your and Mr.

Bembridge's company, it is rather dull
here sometimes, and now he is going
away." I am sure I hoped from the
bottom of my heart be would have that
fair young thing to brighten his lonely
hours. If ever a man seemed able to
make a woman happy, and deserved that
one should keep him company in a snug
little home, it was Mr. Edward Fletcher.

It was about a week after he had taken
the room for his Sunday services that I
had to call on him about the little Sunday-school
we were trying to get together. I
could see there was something very heavy
on his mind, and before long he told me all
about it.

You see, Jem," said he, " the worst of
the business is that other folks, besides the
rich folks down here, don't think much of
a parson if he isn't in the Church of England
; and they fancy, too, that his means
of livelihood must be very uncertain ; and
I have got a bad reputation now among
my friends of being a desperate and
dangerous character — I am supposed, in

fact, to be a Chartist leader, and ready for
any amount of outrage and violence that
may be attempted. My friends in London
look upon me as a second edition of the
Rev. Richard Stephens, hopelessly lost, in
fact, in this world, if not in the next also.
But the consequence of it all is that the
relations of that young lady whom I once
told you I hoped would be coming down
here before very long, have put a stopper
on the whole affair."

"Well, sir," said I, " but if the young lady
knows her own duty, as well as her interest,
she is the first person to be considered in
the matter. What matters anything else ?
I suppose you can maintain her ? "

Oh, yes," said Mr. Fletcher, " I have
enough for her and myself, too, or else I
could not be preaching to those chaps in
that old barn up there ; but well-brought
young ladies don't like very much to go
against their own parents, and I don't
know that they ought. So I am afraid I
have seen the last of her in this world," he
added ; but his voice was growing rather

indistinct, and I could see, as he turned
away, that it was some trouble to keep
down his feelings.

But I didn't like to see him almost
blubbering like a whipped schoolboy, so I
said, rather roughly, I'm afraid, " Oh, you
mustn't take on like that, sir. We must all
bear our troubles like men. It'll all come
right by-and-by, depend upon it." Then
he looked up at me quite pleasantly, instead
of taking offence, and shaking hands, he
said, —

Thank you, Jem, thank you. . . . But
if it don't, never mind. You're right, and
thanked for it. We've got something else
to do in this world, I fancy, than making
ourselves comfortable in it — got to see
what we can do for other folks' comfort,
too, eh, Jem ? "

"You have shown us you think so, Mr.
Fletcher — aye, and you've made more than
one among us feel it pretty strongly, I'm
thinking."

There was a bright, and what I should
call a dreamy look in his eyes for a

vol. i. a

moment ; but the shadow fell again before
long. So I did not say much more, but
turned the conversation, and went away
with a heavy heart, for I knew his trouble
was great.

CHAPTER XII.

Oxe beautiful Saturday afternoon, not
long after that talk, Mr. Fletcher invited
rue to take a walk over the hills with my
heaviest hammer, as he wanted to get some
geological specimens ; and I mind well how
we sat down when he had got what we
wanted, on a rock looking over the country
towards the Quantocks, and ate some cake
he had brought.

Jem," said my gentleman at last, " I've
let you into a bit of a secret about my
love-affairs. I suppose you've some of
your own?" It so happened that while
we sat there silent, looking over that
beautiful land far away into the west,
where the sun was setting, I had been a
dreaming of Maggie Thatcher, and thinke
2

ing rather sadly how she'd never sit beside
me, looking at a sunset, with her head
resting on my shoulder, and my arm round
her, as I had seen her and Davie together.
So when Mr. Edward said that, I could
not at first answer. But I did presently ;
it was such a comfort for once in my life
to tell a real friend all I had gone through
in that matter, and how it seemed to have
darkened my whole life, and left very little
happiness to come into it. I knew he had
felt all the same himself, and so I just let
out to him ; but what with, the beauty of
the evening, and with never having told a
human being before, but had kept it all
crushed down, like, I did feel very bad,
and made a bit of a fool of myself, maybe.
But he took it all so kindly and gently, (far
more kindly than I fear I did when he first
told me of his trouble), and said I must try
and forget my own trouble in thinking of
Davie's joy. " You've got that blessing,
Jem, for your comfort, which I have not,
of knowing your friend will have her, and
will make her a good husband." Then, as

we walked home in the twilight, he spoke
about John the Baptist, and what a fine
generous-hearted fellow he must have been,
and he quoted to me a few verses of what
John said of Jesus having the bride.

But he did me even more good, I think,
when he said, as we parted, " John's Master
give you strength, friend, to think of others
more than of yourself." He preached on
that thought next day, and I have felt
better all my life for what he said that
night — though it wasn't exactly about how
to get the Charter.

My own stay in Eastleigh, however, and
my chance — the first I had ever had in this
world of getting real religious teaching
that would stick by me — was soon to be
cut short. For the storm which blew down
the pine-trees didn't spare some of the
scrub. Our master at Eastleigh was a
fussy, fidgety sort of man, always afraid
of our doing him out of his rights in someway,
uncommonly sharp about keeping time,
and not wasting stuff ; but a fair-dealing
man on the whole; and when he saw I had

a conscience, as well as himself, and enough
knowledge to put the men under me at
their work in the best way for saving time
and material, he became very friendly in a
rough sort of manner. So much so that
I was afraid some of my mates would get
jealous, and maybe spiteful, which I found
afterwards one or two of them did. For
the mean beggars, when Bembridge and
the other men were discharged, and we
thought all the row was over, dropped a
hint, when talking one day to the 'squire's
butler, that one of the worst of the
Chartists had been left, "just because he
happened to be a favourite of the master's."
So the 'squire came in a rage to the shop,
and the master sent for me in the evening,
and we had it out. I was rather proud of
being a martyr, and spoke in a way I only
meant for independence, but I should call
it insolence now, as he did then. So,
according to his promise to the 'squire, I
had my discharge, too ; but T saw the goodman
was a bit troubled ; and when he said
to me at the pay-table on Saturday,

" Woodford, I'm sorry to part with you,
as you know, for you've always been steady
and up to time, and served me well. But
you needn't have been so rude, young-fellow
" — I cut in at once, "Beg pardon,
sir, I'm sure. I didn't mean anything disrespectful,
but you know, sir, we workingmen
are used to speak roughly, and bespoken
to in that way, from the time we
were boys, and we don't mean it half so
bad, sir, as it seems to you gentlefolks."
That pleased him, and he said quite friendly
like, " No, no, I understand. But why
can't you leave politics alone — leave 'em to
those who know a deal more than you
do?"

Oh, sir," says I, " there's one thing
those who make our laws don't know half
as well as we do," and then I couldn't help
tipping the wink to some of our men
standing round, just to encourage them to
hold on.

What's that ? " says he.

"Where the shoe pinches," says I, and
then they all laughed, and the master

looked black again; bub lie shook hand*
with me, and said, " Well, well, good-bye,
Woodford. If all Chartists stuck to their
work as well as you, I shouldn't mind if
the whole trade went for the ' Six Points
or a dozen more."

When I got back to town, of course the
old folks saw me pretty quick. They
looked cheery, " Though father," said
mother, " be sadly troubled with rheumatiz."
They told me that young Roberts
was out of work, as there was little doing,
and the newest comers, unless they are
leading hands, of course get discharged
first. " But, I suppose, he and Maggie
Thatcher are as thick as ever ? "

"Well, I don't know about that,"
answered mother in rather a queer w r ay.
I don't think it's alias smooth as varnish
there."

I felt sorry, but didn't like asking anymore.
I knew if there was anything wrong
I should hear about it from Davie himself
pretty soon. But I had a shrewd guess as to
the point where trouble might come from.

I came to my old masters, who hadn't
bothered their heads much about Chartism,
and though they looked rather glum when
I honestly told them why I had left East-leigh,
they were soon satisfied that I had
no more mischief in me than when I had
left them, and I was soon put on, and back
among my mates in the old shop. I was
glad enough, too, to find there was a corner
for me in my old lodgings.

Mrs. Taylor's reputation as a kind,
motherly sort of landlady generally kept
her house full, and for some time there
had been two cabinet-makers, with their
wives and children lodging on the second
and third floors. But the trade was in a
bad state, and the poor fellows were working
for very low wages, so that the children
looked half-starved, and had scarce a shoe
to their feet. The men were steady enough,
but they didn't get enough to keep the life
in them, and there was trouble to spare
when three of the children were down in a
low fever. Two of the poor little things
died, and then the two families crowded

into three rooms, where even then they
were better off than scores of men, who,
to my knowledge, had but one room for
bedroom, parlour, nursery, and kitchen, as
well as wash-house, with four or five
children. All this time the men saw their
masters living very comfortably and seeming
to make a good income. No wonder
they fancied said masters got more than
their fair share of the profits of the business.
But what they didn't see, as I have
since, was the worn anxious looks of the
masters dio had to go into the " Gazette,"
and leave the pleasant homes to which they
and their wives and children had been
accustomed half their lives. The men
often feel the pinch of poverty sorely
enough, but they little guess what anxieties,
sleepless nights, and other miseries the
employers have in bad times, when money
is "tight" and bills can't be discounted,
or customers don't come, or don't pay their
debts. Aye, friends, I've seen both sides
of the picture in my day, and sad enough
they both are.

The journeymen cabinet-makers, like many
other journeymen, however, never having
been masters, only saw their own troubles,
and thought it very hard they should be
suffering so bitterly while the masters were
enjoying all the comforts, and most of the
luxuries, of life. So they talked the matter
over, and settled that the employers could
afford, at all events, a small increase in
wages — say two shillings a week. Then
they held meetings, and the pinched, sallow
faces of those who came told sorrowful tales.
They sent in their united application, and the
masters met and conferred. Some could
no doubt, have very well afforded to give
the increase, but others with less capital or
business-like talent, and, perhaps, therefore,
with inferior workmen, would have
been nearly, if not quite, ruined by an
advance. Besides, as they all agreed,
what's the use of giving more wages ?
The men would only spend it in drink ; for
the more they get the more they want, and
high wages always mean hard drinking."
There was enough truth in these remarks

to make them generally applauded ; and
yet it was a cruel shame to tar us all with
the same brush. I'm not going to defend
my old mates through thick and thin. For
I know how disgracefully many of them
did waste their money, and damage their
health, by taking a drop too much, and
how many of them might have had comfortable
homes, if they hadn't spent their
wages as fast as they got them. But then,
gentlemen, say I, whose fault was it that
these poor fellows were never taught better?
Who gave them no end of public-houses
and these cursed beer shops, but never a
school for a hundredth part of them, nora
place where they could go to for a chat
and a pipe except the pot-house — nor
decent dwellings that were fit for human
beings ? I know the men in my day drank
very hard — lots of them in every trade,
some trades worse than others. One of
the best w r workmen I ever knew, a bricklayer,
was telling me only the other day
how he had often heard the men, thirty
years ago, on a Monday morning, when

they came on the scaffold, " boasting how
jolly tight they had got the day before ;
while now," he said, " a man who talked

in that way would be called a d d fool

for his pains." Oh, yes, workmen drank
hard in those days, and so did the gentlefolks,
who hadn't half so much excuse for
it ; and if the manners of the gentry are
improved, well, so are those of the workmen,
as my friend, the bricklayer, observed.
No doubt there's still room for improvement.
The whole system of fines and
footings, payable in drink, is bad to the
core (though there's not as much of it as
there was). And then again, those benefit
clubs got up by landlords to bring custom,
are generally a cruel nuisance. They
seldom have members enough to make
them safe. Those they have grow old, and
no vounor ones will enter, so that there's
nothing but disappointment and loss fora
great majority. All this teaches poor
men to be afraid of saving, and Heaven
knows that's not the lesson they need to
learn. It is the large societies, Bedfellows,

Foresters, Hearts of Oak, Royal Standard,
Shepherds, Druids, and such like, or the
Temperance Benefit Society, that are the
only safe clubs for working men. But
even with them there's a great deal too
much to be spent in drink when their
lodges and courts have to meet, as is
generally the case, at a " public." I've
known many a man spend a shilling in
saving sixpence, till the wives wish their
good men had never joined the club.

Davie Roberts, as I said before, signed
teetotal " at one time, and I rather
respected him for it. I've seen a deal of
nonsense and bigotry among teetotalers,
but there's a noble and a brotherly spirit
at the bottom of it, and I'm certain the
good they've done during the last forbears
passes belief. I can't say I ever felt called
to join myself. Perhaps I ought, but then,
never taking more than a glass or two, I
didn't see any need to swear I'd take none
at all. True, steady men are wanted to
join, as I've heard 'em say, to make ita
respectable thing to belong to a teetotal

society. If only tipsy folk joined — well,
it would be a disgrace to belong to it. But
weak brethren can go into it without shame
when clergymen and ladies and all the
sober swells are there before 'em. Still I
know I was doing good in my way, by
showing my mates I could take a pint and
stop there, or leave it alone altogether. I
suppose it's true, what Mr. Fletcher once
said, I remember, that we all have our
mission, and I think that was mine. But it
would have been a bad job for old England
if the teetotalers hadn't fulfilled theirs.

But to go back to the cabinet-makers
and the masters. They soon agreed that
the trade would not afford any advance in
wages, and they promised to stand by one
another. When their answer came, most
of the men were for a strike; but their
leaders and officers said it was " no go."
They declared the men wouldn't hold out
two months, and the employers would get
enough men from the country long before
that, to do all the work that had to be
done, which was not much after all.

There isn't enough union among us,"
they urged, "to fight and win. Wait a bit
till we've doubled or trebled our Union
members. Then w r e may have a chance.
But it's sheer madness to strike now."

The leaders prevailed, as they often do.
Folks make a great mistake who fancy it
is the leaders of Trades' Unions that stir
up the rank aud file to strike. Faroftener
the latter push on their officers, and go to
war in spite of safe advice. It used to
make me uncommonly cross to hear the
nonsense gentlefolks talk about strikes.
Why, one would think a child might see
that, as a general rule, it can't be for the
interests of the officers of a Union to
whittle away its funds in strikes, for then,
of course, there's so much less in the box
for the officials' salary, while the best and
leading men in a trade are usually sure,
without strikes, of as good wages as the
trade can afford. In this case, I believe,
they were quite right to resist their
followers. There wasn't a chance for them.
But I was main sorry for the poor fellows

who had got families and had to muddle on
in such a miserable way.

Jem Burt turned up one day as I was
leaving work, looking as blank as a dead
wall. When the job was finished at East-leigh
for the 'squire's furniture, he couldn't
get work there or anywhere else in the
district, so he had tramped all the way upto
London ; and as he now limped along
by my side, hungry, shivering, and footsore,
he told me how he had had to spend
most of the tramp-money allowed him by his
Lodge in drink at the public-houses where
he slept each night, so that in fact he was
half-starved, and as weak as ditch-water.
It is a bad job, I may remark, for men on
tramp that, in general, there's no lodging-house
for them but where more than
half their allowance must go in beer.
Things are somewhat mended in this respect
since my time, but it's bad at the
best. Even the steadiest have to order at
least a pot while they are in the house,
besides what they drink on the road ; while
the temptation to take more while chatting

VOL. I. S

and smoking at night is very great. Some
shabby chaps are not ashamed to sponge
on a poor tramp till all his travelling-money's
gone, and in either case he has
nothing to pay for a breakfast next morning.
So there he goes creeping along with an
aching head and an empty belly, eight or
ten miles, till he gets to the next " house of
call." Years ago I heard that the " Amalgamated
Engineers," feeling strangely these
hardships of the tramp system, voted, by
a majority of all their Lodges, 10,000/. to
provide lodging-houses apart from the
public-house in all the principal towns of
the kingdom. But, as usual then, the law
was against the honest workman, and on
the side of the brewer and publican ; for
the " Engineers " were advised that such
an appropriation of their funds would be
against law ! and they had to give up the
sensible notion. Poor Burt had come in
for his full share, and more, of these hardships,
and my heart ached for him as I
looked at him sideways. But I had to tell
him again plainly, as I had done before,

that I thought he was a deal too soft in the
matter of standing treat and " tossing."
Pounds and pounds that young fellow had
lost by want of firmness, and he was better
than many I've known. But you can't
wonder that men, especially the younger
ones, don't like to be disagreeable with
their companions, or be chaffed and sneered
at by them, and the landlord too, when
they go for a little enjoyment — the only
pleasure they get all day. I have heard it
said that, above all things, the British
workman hates being thought shabby ; and
I've noticed it's true. Besides, they know
they've no right to sit by the landlord's fire
and not drink something for the good of the
house ; only the worst of it is, as I used to
find sometimes to my cost, the pint so often
brings on the pot, and the pot the gallon,
and though we needn't always pay for
it on the nail, Saturday night brings a
heavy reckoning. I believe that most of
the men, though they want their pint, care
more for the " company " than the drink,
when they've had a glass or two ; and ones
2

of the best things ever done for them is
getting them these places where they can
take it or leave it as they like, and yet be
as sociable as they please. Many a time
I've had to order another pint because I
had got into a good discussion; but I
seldom took more than my regular allowance
myself, and following Kelso's advice
given when I first came to town, I used to
hand on the " extra " to any chap out of
work who happened to be in the house, or
perhaps to a mate on the tramp. And
perhaps here's the place for saying that, talk
as teetotalers will against the " public,"
many's the good talk I've had in the tap-room
of our " House of Call " in Kentish
Town, over our pewter, and many a good
wrinkle I've picked up, besides getting
plenty to think about. Not that I ever
liked the place in itself, and it's a stupid
beastly way of paying for the accommodation
of a room and a fire, by ordering so
much drink ; still, there used often to be
real good talk in the tap-room, and particularly
in the bar-parlour (though that cost

more), and in the parlour one is not so
much in danger of being interrupted by
drunken, rowdy fellows. In the tap-room
we were always at the mercy of any vagabond
who chose to turn in and squat down
among us. But, with all its drawbacks, I
say there was much to like in the cosy old
rooms with their bright fire, and the feeling
of perfect freedom (of independence
of all masters and foremen and rules and
regulations) with which you stretched out
your legs there and ordered your pint.
But all that seems gone now, and only a
great flaunting "bar" put up instead,
where there's a deal more drinking, and no
real conversation, and no rest. It's a vile
change for the worse, except indeed that
anything which makes workmen dislike the
public' " and take to one of these social
clubs instead, is a change for the better.

I daresay, if anybody but working men
should read these pages, they'd begin to
think there's a deal too much said in them
about the public-house ; but working men
them serves well know I can't help it, because

they know Low largely that British
institution, as I've beard it called, enters
into the daily life of most workmen, and
that I could not truthfully describe my
life and that of my mates without frequent
mention of it. But I needn't say that I've
known many respectable houses, and landlords
too, who have been real good friends
to working men and their societies; but
no doubt the general tendency of the trade
is demoralizing, and working men know too
well that the way in which we have to go to
the " public' " for all our business, company
and amusement, is a great curse to us.

However, to return to Jem Burt, he
was down-hearted indeed, I can tell you,
when he found he had walked all the way
to London and went round to the " houses
of call " (not next day — he was too ill, and
had to rest a bit), but to no purpose. True,
it wasn't as bad as before, because now he
had something from his Trades' Union —
little indeed, but enough to keep him from
starving. There were hundreds worse off
than himself, for they had their families to

keep, and Jem hadn't made a fool of himself
yet, by taking a wife and haying a
heap o' children. But there were too many
'prentices in the trade then.

Help came to them at last, poor fellows,
and from those who used to be called " our
natural enemies." French polishing had
come in. and of course cabinet-makers
were the first to learn it. Burt very soon
took a good place in the new line, and the
wages they earned for a time were good to
begin with, and kept rising. Then more
and more men pressed into the trade, till
they were all in as bad a way as before
they left their old trade ; in fact, I think
they couldn't earn, when things came to
the worst, more than about 16s. to 18s. a
week. We know what that means for a
respectable mechanic in a large town. So
at last they held meetings and formed a
Trades' Union, and wages soon went up
again to a reasonable figure, from sos. to
35s., and have kept pretty steady ever
since. But that was some time after.

CHAPTER XIII.

Of course I was among my old Chartist
friends the first night after I got back.
Mr. Lovett gave me a very kind welcome,
as did many others. But neither he nor
they were very well pleased with the way
things were going on in the Convention.
It seems that although instructions were
given to the missionaries whom the Convention
were now sending out " to refrain
from all violent and unconstitutional language,
and not to infringe the law in any
manner by word or deed," a Mr. Cobbett, a
delegate from Yorkshire, was so alarmed
by the proposal to send out missionaries,
that, as he could not get the Convention to
confine its business to the presentation of

the national petition, he withdrew. Mr.
Lovett also told me, as he says in his
memoirs, that, owing to an unfortunate
delay in presenting the National Petition,
the physical force party had taken great
offence ; they had formed a society called
the Democratic Association of London, at
the head of which was George Julian
Harney, a very zealous and enthusiastic
Chartist, but unfortunately, says Lovett,
one of the most indiscreet and violent
amongst them, " for he scrupled not to
flourish his dagger at public meetings, byway,"
as Mr. Lovett slily adds, " of giving
c point ' to his c perorations.' " Lovett,
however, afterwards did justice to the great
and beneficial change that came over this
eloquent firebrand, by adding a note in his
book as follows : " Our friend Harney has
since redeemed his past violence and folly
by his intelligent conduct and moderation
in the cause of right and justice." And I
am glad of the opportunity of adding that
I believe any one might now be proud
of Mr. Harney's friendship; for in his

adopted country across the Atlantic lie has
shown what a valuable citizen a youthful
hot-headed Chartist may become when
arrived at years of discretion. However,
at that time all such violence was, of
course, most mischievous ; and yet, to
please a man of this stamp, O'Connor
called the public meeting at the " Crown
and Anchor" on March 11th, 1839, "at
which," says Lovett, " the physical force
party displayed such violence and folly as
to cause the Birmingham delegates, Messrs.
Salt, Hadley, and Douglas, to secede from
us." But now mark the consequence of
the sober men in any movement withdrawing
from it because of the violence or
folly of the rest ! The mischievous folks
had been in the minority previously ; but
the resignation of the Birmingham men,
followed, as it unhappily was, by many
other resignations, left vacancies which
were now filled by men of headstrong and
unprincipled character. It was now also
that the Convention began to consider the
question of what they called " Ulterior

Measures " — to be adopted if the petition
should be rejected. A good many felt confident
it was impossible Parliament could
reject a petition signed by 1,283,000 persons,
all of them genuine signatures, from
men who were sincere in their convictions
a petition which was nearly three miles
long, and which had to be wheeled into the
House of Commons on great trucks.
Others, however, said there was no limit to
the injustice, and despotism of the present
Parliament, and they were anxious to consider
what should be done in case not
merely the petition, but a motion for the
People's Charter, were rejected by the so-called
representatives of the people.
Pushed on by the London Democratic
Association, the Convention proceeded to
discuss, at first in rather an informal wav,
proposals for a run on the banks : a general
suspension of all labour (what I referred
to before as " the Sacred month ") ; a recommendation
to the people generally to
provide themselves with arms ; and other
steps of a similar and very revolutionary

character. Then, in order to add fuel to
the flame of excitement, both in the Convention
and throughout the country,
occurred the dismissal of Mr. John Frost,
which I have already mentioned. Later
on — the 10th May, 1839 — came the arrest
of Henry Vincent on a charge of conspiracy
and sedition at Newport, and
Feargus O'Connor brought forward, for
the second time, his motion that the
Convention should adjourn to Birmingham.


After Mr. Lovett had given me a little idea
of the present state of things, said I, "And
what, sir, do you think, then, of doing? "
Well, Woodford," said he, " a few of us
have taken a room at the "Arundel " Coffee
House (where a number of delegates are
lodging) for general discussion on all these
matters when we're not at the Convention.
If we can only come to some reasonable
conclusion about these ' Ulterior Measures '
among ourselves before they are formally
introduced to the Convention, we may have
a chance of wiser and more prudent courses

being adopted." This seemed to me a
very sensible step. Lovett was, of course,
appointed secretary, and before very long
had drawn up an admirable manifesto to
be issued to the people of England. I say
61 admirable," although I could not go along
with the whole of it ; and I ventured, after
it had been read to the Convention, to observe
that I didn't think he would have
agreed to some proposals which the more
extreme party had been urging. " No,"
he said, " I do not altogether approve of
them, I must honestly tell you, but one
must give up something for the sake of
union and for the good cause. You see,
Woodford, we can never have our own
way altogether in this world, and must
make concessions occasionally, so long as
we don't compromise our principles." I
saw the truth of this ; and, besides, I had
great confidence that from the influence
which Lovett still possessed in the Convention,
and all over the country, he would
be able to keep a heavy drag on the more
outrageous motions of the O'Connorites.

He had something of the same confidence
himself, as he admits in his memoirs ; but
his unfortunate and most unjust imprisonment
shortly after upset all his calculations.
The manifesto ought to be read at full
length by any one desirous of understanding
the state of things at the time ; but it
is too honos to give here.

Tt was a curious change, and, in its way,
a great relief from all the work and worry
of the workshop and the Chartist meetings,
to go down on Sundays sometimes to
the quiet Broadfield village, where everything
seemed so lazy and peaceful. It
seemed to cool one's fret and fever, and put
a few good thoughts into the mind, when
I sat out of doors, looking up to the blue
sky, or when, for Mr. Fletcher's sake, I
went now and then to church. I used to
take poor Burt down with me sometimes
to cheer him up a bit while he was out of
work, for father and mother would always
give a kind welcome to any friend of mine.
Mr. Stokes, from whose talks with father
I first got a glimpse at politics, used to

come across from Ockerton now and again,
when it was a fine Sunday, especially when
he thought I'd be there, to hear all I
could tell him about Lovett and the Chartists.
I was very glad to get a chat with
him too, for he had lately been over to
America (the States), and had a mighty
deal that was curious and instructive to
tell us about what he saw there.

One afternoon, just as we were all sitting
down to tea, I remember Davie and Maggie
dropping in, so we made quite a large
party. But why I speak of it is that I
mind father saying something about a
stupid young chap he had been trying to
teach carpentering, and could make nothing
of him ; and then Davie saying, " Aye, sir,
he must be a lout, for a fellow should be
only too glad to get such a chance as you'd
give him." Then we went on talking about
how hard it was now-a-days to get anybody
to teach anything — both Davie and
Burt saying how bad it was for a lad (or a
grown man either) to learn anything in a
shop ; whereon Maggie asked what reason

there was for this. So we told her (for
we all agreed about it) that it was partly
because men are afraid of being ousted by
younger fellows, whom they may have
taught to take their own places, and it's
not being anybody's interest to teach
them — partly the foreman " driving "
them.

But," said Davie, " perhaps its chiefly
because you get ridiculed so, if you don't
know anything, and have to ask, or if you
happen to make a mistake." " Yes," said
Mr. Stokes, " English workmen are so confoundedly
ready to laugh at a fellow ; but
it's quite different in America. There they
never seem to think the worse of you if
you don't know how to do a thing, leastways,
they don't show it, if they do; but
they just give you a lift, and put you along
good-humoureclly. I worked in the States
years ago, soon after I was out of my
time, and I've been in their shops again
lately, and it's always the same, as far as
my experience goes. May not be so with
others."

Say Maggie, " That's very nice of the
Yankee-doodles. What's the reason of the
difference ? "

Can't tell, I'm sure. Perhaps because
there's more room in that big country,"
and he began elbowing right and left of
him, and set us off laughing. "The
good humour doesn't all get squeezed
out of a chap as it often does here, where
one man so often envies another man his
berth, or his wages, or his fine home, or
anything that is his, as the catechism says,
don't it ? You see there's more plenty of
everything over there, work and wages
and food, and the very days seem longer,
and so they are not so strict, either,
about Union rules, and aren't afraid of
teaching a poor beggar, lest he should
become a rival some day ; and then they
don't mind working at two or three trades
at once."

;; I think I shall emigrate to America,"
said Davie thoughtfully.

Yes, it would just suit you," said
Maggie, with that pretty twinkle in her

VOL. I. T

eyes we knew so well. " You know you
can't bear being chaffed."

Davie looked very much as if he couldn't.
So I said, "It's all the more nasty of
English workmen to ridicule one another,
because if there's one thing they hate most,
it is being laughed at." Davie gave a side-glance
at Maggie.

Aye," said Mr. Stokes, " but that's
because we are all so consumedly proud."
Maggie returned the look to Davie.

But there's another thing," said my
father, lighting his pipe, " of which all
Englishmen, it strikes me, whether they
be rich or poor, are a deuced deal more
afraid of than ridicule, and that is of being
thought to do something that's mean and
shabby. I rather fancy that is often one
reason why they can't bear being ridiculed.
And I believe that fear of doing anything
thought dishonourable by one's mates is
stronger among what are called the lower
classes, than the higher — except the nobility."


"Yes," said Mr. Stokes, "for the nobs

have nothing else to fret about. I believe
there's more honour among costermongers,
and among thieves, too, for that
matter, than among City gents."

I ventured to ask why he thought so.

Why you see every week in the newspapers
how the City men let their sureties
in for guarantees, and backing bills and
such things. And I've a brother a clerk
in the City (worse luck for him, poor
fellow), who tells me how he sees it going
on. But a costermonger who diddled his
mates in that way could never show his
face at Covent Garden; and a thief who
betrayed his pals would be safe to be
kicked to death, or split upon, the very
first chance."

We all agreed to the correctness of Mr.
Stokes' view.

Maggie," whispered Davie, in rather a
hard sort of way, and leaning back with one
arm over the back of her chair, so loud I
couldn't help just hearing, as I was next
to him, " Maggie, shall I tell you what
some fellows are more afraid of than either
t 2

of what those gentlemen have been naming?
Doing anything to vex their dearie."

Women are quite as much vexed when
they pain their sweethearts, sir, as men,"
whispered Maggie, bridling np, and with
such a mixture of sweetness and sauce as
might have made a fool of any man .

So I guessed, as I did when they entered,
that they had been having a tiff on the
way. Soon after they got up, wished us
all good evening, and went away — she
looking like a queen, and he as handsome
as a play-acting hero on the stage.

That's a fine, clever fellow," said Mr.
Stokes, between his puffs, when they were
gone, " and she is a bonny lass. I always
said she would be. But he seems rather
uppish, eh ? What you may call a bit conceited,
eh ? "

Well," said I " he is very clever. And
don't you know, Mr. Stokes, how hard it is
for one of us working-men to be very
clever and not to be conceited ? By-and-by,
when we are al] better educated, it
won't be such a wonderful thing to be

clever, and a sharp chap like Davie won't
seem such a rare sight to himself or his
companions."

Mr. Stokes appeared to consider that
rather a deep remark, and thought over it.

Now as to what follows I can't say it's
quite pleasant telling it all, yet it may be
of use to some, both men and maidens ;
so, if I tell anything at all, I may as well
give the whole of what I remember, but
some of it was told my friend, not to me,
and so, as before, I got him to fill up what
he knew and I didn't.

What happened then was something like
this, I believe. Davie, as I said, was out
of work, and had to report himself every
morning at his house of call, so that he
could only go down to Broadfield occasionally.
Two or three jobs had been
offered him, but unluckily he wasn't up to
them for want of better training. There
was one, I remember, where a tough bit of
stair casing had to be done, and which
would have been many a pound in his
pocket if he could have taken it ; but he

could not. So when I saw this, I said to
him, "Why don't you make use of this
holiday-time to do a bit of study ? Here's
a fine chance for you to make up for your
lost time. Don't you see how many a man
is walking the streets with his hands in his
pockets because he has only learnt the
lower branch of his business, or it may be
only one little bit of it. If you will go and
enter at some drawing school, I will help
you to the mathematics, and then we will
see if we can't get some old hand for a suitable
consideration to let you into the mysteries
of stair-casing, and even hand-railing,
too, it may be." However, it was all of no
use. He did try a little, and then gave it up.
He never had enough perseverance in him,
I believe. But still, any working-man
knows how the being out of work weighs
upon a fellow's spirits, so that in nine cases
out of ten the leisure-time he gets when at
play " (i.e. out of work) is no good to
him, either for amusement, or study. And,
talking of this play-time, gentlefolks who
speak about a workman's wages, and say

that so much is quite sufficient to keep him
and his family in comfort, don't consider
how many weeks in the course of the year
workmen (especially in some trades) have
nothing whatever to do. Many is the
family that would no doubt be very comfortable
all the year round if " the goodman
of the house " was in work all the
time at a certain wage ; but indeed it is
very different.

I could see how this state of things
helped to make Davie now and then very
fretful ; and I daresay poor Maggie found
it out to her cost, too. He was one of
those excitable dispositions which somehow
are always in extremes ; and consequently
he was often just as flat, as at others he
was like a gingerbread bottle ; so that after
a time, when he did go to Broadfield, he
generally went mooning about in a silly
sort of way, not making himself very
agreeable to anybody. Maggie Thatcher,
of course, had plenty to do in looking after
her sick mother, her drunken father, and
the poor little children, so that often when

Davie came she was in anything but holiday
trim, and could not do much to raise
his spirits or even to give him any of her
time. Kitty, however, was always ready
to give him her company, and was lively
enough no doubt, so that I think he saw
quite as much of her as he did of his regular
sweetheart. I am sure this did him no
good, and lie must have been pretty sure of
it too ; for I recollect his saying to me on
one occasion, with a great smite on his
forehead, " I tell you what it is, Jem ; I
don't like this way of going on at all, it
doesn't suit me ; Maggie's generally in a
fret or a fidget when I am down at Broad-field
; and whenever I go with that pretty
little flirt Miss Puss-in-Boots (you recollect
her ?) it makes me feel a worse fellow than
ever. It makes me up to all sorts of mischief,
and, oh lor ! how she does make me
laugh at the parson and all his chatter.
Then, when I go with Maggie Thatcher, it
is all the other way. She's as wise and as
clever as she's handsome and good ; but
then, you see, Jem, she knows it. And I

don't like being lectured and tutored even
by so wise and handsome a girl as Maggie."
So that I could see the end of it was he
found it a great relief to cut the Thatchers
and go and chat and laugh and romp with
that silly Puss-in-Boots.

But if friend Davie would not make use
of his opportunity of learning himself, he
began to take Maggie in hand and tried to
teach her. The poor child no doubt had
faults enough and to spare; but it's awkward
to have one's ]over sifting them out,
and telling one all about them. Matters
came to a crisis, it seems, one evening, when
her lover, having come to the cottage and
sat there some time without speaking, says
Maggie, quite briskly, —

Why, Davie, you look out-and-out glum
to-night ; you haven't a word to cheer us
with, and you haven't been here for a week
before, and we're all as dull as dead mice."

Davie didn't brighten up much at this
speech, and they sat looking at each other
rather dismally for a minute or two. Then
he said, —

Come for a turn in the lane."

Maggie was puzzled, and felt cross, I
dare say.

How can I leave all this work, I should
like to know ? "

At last, however, she came and went
with him out of the cottage into the lane.
Then her lover began, rather hesitatingly,

I don't know how it is, Maggie, but we
don't seem to make one another quite as
happy as we used to do when I come to see
you now ; you always seem to be in such a
way."

"But, Davie dear, you know," began
Mao-crie in rather a troubled tone, and then
she stopped. So Davie took up the running
again, saying, —

And then you must let me tell you, my
pet," then, going on insinuatingly,
You have a queer temper, you know,
Maggie. Now I don't want to be cross
about it, you know, my darling, but I
can't help telling you it has often sent me
away from you so miserable, you can't
think."

Temper ? " said the girl slowly, and
reddening np.

Yes, Maggie ; it's no use stuffing it
down, so I must speak. We can't go on
in this—"

Here Maggie broke in rather fiercely.

Temper ? well, I'm likely to have a
temper I should think ! What with mother
a-f getting from morning to night, and
father a-nagging of me, and coming home
drunk every Saturday night, and cross asa
singed cat all Sunday, and no money
coming in, and the children everlastingly
after me for something or other, and fretting
their poor little hearts out for want of
fire or food, or something — love it may be ;
oh dear ! "

It's that last you're a wanting of,
Maggie, my dear, to keep you from fretting—"


Maybe it is ; but you don't seem like
to bring me any of it — talking about
my temper indeed, and casting up old
scores against me. Oh dear ! I don't
see much good in living at all. What

on earth I wonder were we all born
for?"

Here Maggie sank down dejectedly on
the old stile where she had once been so
happy, looking very wretched, bnt very
handsome, with her brown hair all tangled,
while a few tears would well up in spite of
her efforts to hide them. Davie could not
stand this ; all his resentment and all his
lecturing were forgotten in a moment ; he
took her in his arms and was almost as
ready to cry as she,

Now don't'ee, Maggie dear, don't'ee
anger me so ; let's make it up ; but it
kills love to hear you going on at me as
you do, sometimes, in those tempers of
yours."

It's curious how people occasionally
attribute to others exactly the misdeeds of
which they have been guilty themselves.
Maggie's tongue was sharp enough no
doubt, and her temper none of the
smoothest; but Davie's lecturing, and
attempt at schooling her, was not likely to
be very successful in mending matters.

Kills love, does it? Well, I should
say it's not worth much if it's killed as
easily as all that."

Ah, lass, you know little about a man's
love if you don't know that there's many a
thing he can stand a deal better than being
snubbed by the girl he loves."

Pooh ! you make much of a trifle."

"It's not a trifle ! " cried Davie impetuously
; " such ways of going on just turn
everything topsy-turvy. It aggravates a
man beyond all endurance, and just makes
him hate her. Xow, Maggie dear, can't
you say you know you are wrong for once
in a way, and then we will be good friends
ever after ?"

Why, Davie, you were just as much to
blame as I have been — if I have been at all ;
but I won't say I have been in the wrong
when I don't think so. I said I wouldn't,
and I won't."

At this time they heard the village clock
strike eight.

Oh, poor mother ! " cried Maggie, " I
must be off; so good night, Davie."

Good night," replied be, but rather
sulkily, and so they parted ; not by any
means to their mutual satisfaction or
profit.

END OF VOL. I.

Imported by Messrs. Sampson Low & Co. can

be had on application.

Crown Buildings, 188, Fleet Street, London,
January, 1881.

3 Election from tete £st of Books

PUBLISHED BY

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston.

ALPHABETICAL LIST.

A CLASSIFIED Educational Catalogue of Works pub*
wished in Great Britain. Demy 8vo, cloth extra. Second Edition,

revised and corrected to Christmas, 1879, 5 s
About Some Fellows. By an Eton Boy, Author of "A Day

of my Life." Cloth limp, square imo, 2s. 6d.
Adventures of Captain Ago. A Phoenician's Explorations

looo years B.C. By Leon Cahun. Numerous Illustrations. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 7s. 6d. ; plainer binding, Jr.
Adventures of a Young Naturalist. By Lucien Biart, with

117 beautiful Illustrations on Wood. Edited and adapted by Parker

Gillmore. Post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, New Edition, Js. 6d.
Afghan Knife the). A Novel. By Robert Armytage

Sterndale, Author of " Seonee." Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s,
After Sundown ; or, The Palette and the Pen. By W. W. Penn,

Author of " Blind Man's Holiday," &c. With Portrait of Author.

2 vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 245-.
Albania: A Narrative of Recent Travel. By E. F. Knight.

With some very good Illustrations specially made for the work.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, lis. 6d.
Alcott (Louisa M.) Jimmy' 's Cruise in the " Pinafore" With 9

Illustrations. Second Edition. Small post 8vo, cloth gilt, ^s. 6d.
Aunt Jo's Scrap-Bag. Square imo, 2s. 6d.

(Rose Library, is. )
- Little Men : Life at Plumfield with Jds Boys. Small

posts, cloth, gilt edges, 3s. 6d. (Rose Library, Double vol. 2s.)
Little Women. 1 vol., cloth, gilt edges, $s. 6d. (Rose

Library, 2 vols., is. each.)

Alcott louisa M.) Old-fashioned Girl. Best Edition, small
post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, $s. 6d. (Rose Library, is. )

Work and Beginning Again. A Story of Experience.

i vol., small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Several Illustrations. (Rose
Library, 2 vols., Is. each.)

Shawl Straps. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 3^. 6d.

Eight Cousins ; or, the Aunt Hill. Small post 8vo,

with Illustrations, 2> s - 6(1-

The Rose in Bloom. Small post 8vo, cloth extra,

3-r. 6d.

Silver Pitchers. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, p. 6d.

Under the Lilacs. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 5-r.

Jack and Jill. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 5^

"Miss Alcott's stories are thoroughly healthy, full of racy fun and humour . . .
exceedingly entertaining We can recommend the 'Eight Cousins'" —
Athenaeum.

Alpine Ascents and Adventures ; or, Rock and Snow Sketches.
By H. Shuts Wilson, of the Alpine Club. With Illustrations by
Whimper and Marcus Stone. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d. 2nd Edition.

Andersen (Hans Christian) Fairy Tales. With Illustrations in
Colours by E. V. B. Royal 4to, cloth, 2$s.

Architecture ( The Twenty Styles of) . By Dr. W. Wood, Author
of " The Hundred Greatest Men." Imperial 8vo, with 52 Plates.

Art Education. See " Illustrated Text Books."

Autobiography of Sir G. Gilbert Scott, R.A., F.S.A., accredited
by his Son, G. Gilbert Scott. With an Introduction by the
Dean of Chichester, and a Funeral Sermon, preached in Westminster
Abbey, by the Dean of Westminster. Also, Portrait on
steel from the portrait of the Author by G. Richmond, R. A. 1 vol.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra, 1 &s.

THE BAYARD SERIES,

Edited by the late J. Hain Friswell.
Comprising Pleasure Books of Literature produced in the Choicest Style as
Companionable Volumes at Home and Abroad.
"We can hardly imagine better books for boys to read or for men to ponder
over." — Times.

Price 2s. 6d. each Volume, complete in itself, flexible cloth extra, gilt edges,
ivith silk Headbands and Registers.

The Story of the Chevalier Bayard.

By M. De Servile.
De Joinville's St. Louis, King of

France.

The Essays of Abraham Cowley, including
all his Prose Works.

Abdallah ; or, The Four Leaves.
By Edward Laboullaye.

The Bayard Series continued) :•

Table-talk and Opinions of Napoleon
Buonaparte.

Vathek : An Oriental Romance.
By William Beckford.

The King and the Commons. A
Selection of Cavalier and Puritan
Songs. Edited by Professor
Morley.

Words of Wellington : Maxims and
Opinions of the Great Duke.

Dr. Johnson's Tassels, Prince of
Abyssinia. With Notes.

Hazlitt's Round Table. With Biographical
Introduction.

The Religio Medici, Hydriotaphia,
and the Letter to a Friend. By
Sir Thomas Browne, Kent.

Ballad Poetry of the Affections. By
Robert Buchanan.

Coleridge's Christened, and other
A Case containing 12 Volumes, price 31s.

Imaginative Poems. With Preface
by Algerian C. Swinburne.

Lord Chesterfield's Letters, Sentences,
and Maxims. With Introduction
by the Editor, and
Essay on Chesterfield by M. de
Ste.-Beuve, of the French Academy.


Essays in Mosaic. By Thos. Ballads


My Uncle Toby ; his Story and his
Friends. Edited by P. Fitzgerald.


Reflections ; or, Moral Sentences and
Maxims of the Duke de la Roche-focal.


Socrates : Memoirs for English
Readers from Xenophon's Memorabilia.
By Edw. Levied.

Prince Albert's Golden Precepts.

6d. ; or the Case separately, price 3s. 6d.

Beauty and the Beast. An Old Tale retold, with Pictures by
E. V. B. 4to, cloth extra. 10 Illustrations in Colours. 12s. 6d.

Begum \r Fortune { The) : A New Story. By Jules Verne.
Translated by W. H. G. Kingston. Numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth, gilt edges, Js. 6d. ; plainer binding, plain edges, 5^.

Ben Hur : A Tale of the Christ. By L. Wallace. Crown

8vo, 6s.
Bearers' German Copybooks. In six gradations at ^d. each.

Biart (Lucien). See "Adventures of a Young Naturalist,"
My Rambles in the New World," "The Two Friends," " Involuntary
Voyage."

Bickersteth' s Hymnal Companion to Book of Common Prayer
may be had in various styles and bindings from id. to 21s. Price
List and Prospectus will be forwarded on application.

Bickersteth rev. E. H, M.A.) The Beef and other Parables.
I vol. , square 8vo, with numerous very beautiful Engravings, 2s. 6d.

The Clergyman in his Home. Small post 8vo, is.

The Master's Home Call; or, Brief Memorials of

Alice Frances Bickersteth. 20th Thousand. 32mo, cloth gilt, is.

The Master's Will. A Funeral Sermon preached

on the Death of Mrs. S. Gurney Buxton. Sewn, 6d. ; cloth gilt, u.
A 2

Bickersteth rev. E. H., M.A.) The Shadow of the Rock. A
Selection of Religious Poetry. imo, cloth extra, 2s. 6d.

The Shadowed Home and the Light Beyond. 7 th

Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, $s.
Biographies of the Great Artists illustrated). Each of the
following Volumes is illustrated with from twelve to twenty full-page
Engravings, printed in the best manner, and bound in ornamental
cloth cover, 3.5-. 6d. Library Edition, bound in a superior style,
and handsomely ornamented, with gilt top ; six Volumes, enclosed
in a cloth case, with lid, £1 itt. 6d. each case.
Hogarth. Fra Bartolommeo. Sir David Wilkie.

Turner. Giotto. Van Eyck.

Rubens. Raphael. Figure Painters of

Holbein. Van Dyckand Hals. Holland.

Tintoretto. Titian. Michel Angelo.

Little Masters of Rembrandt. Delarocheand Vernet.

Germany. Leonardo da Vinci. Landseer.

Fra Angelico and Gainsborough and Reynolds.
Masaccio. Constable.

Few things in the wsy of small books upon great subjects, avowedly cheap and
necessarily brief, have been hitherto so well done as these biographies of the Great
Masters in painting." — Times.

A deserving series." — Edinburgh Review.

Most thoroughly and tastefully edited." — Spectator.

Black ( Wm. ) Three Feathers. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lady Coverdale's Sweetheart, and other Stories. 1 vol.,

small post 8vo, 6s.

Kidney : a Novel. Small post 8vo, cloth, 6s.

In Silk Attire. 3rd Edition, small post 8vo, 6s.

A Daughter of Heth. nth Edition, small post 8vo ; 6s.

Sunrise. 15 Monthly Parts, is. each.

Blackmore {R. L>.) Lorna Done. 10th Edition, cr. 8vo, 6s.

Alice Lorraine. 1 vol., small post 8vo, 6th Edition, 6^.

Clara Vaughan. Revised Edition, 6s.

■ Crack Powell. New Edition, 6s.

Cripps the Carrier. 3rd Edition, small post 8vo, 6s.

Mary Waverley. New Edition, 6s.

Ere7?ia ; or, My Father's Sift. With 1 2 Illustrations,

small post 8vo, 6s.

Blossoms from the Xing' s Garden : Sermons for Children. By
the Rev. C. Banquet. 2nd Edition, small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Blue Mariner the); or, The Adventures of a Mussulman, a
Christian, and a Pagan, in the time of the Crusades and Mongol
Conquest. Translated from the French of Leon Cahun. With
Seventy-six Wood Engravings. Imperial imo, cloth, gilt edges,
7^. 6d. j plainer binding, 5^.

Boys Froissart (Tie). *js. 6d. See "Froissart."

Boy's King Arthur the). With very fine Illustrations.
Square crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, "js. 6d. Edited by SIDNEY
Lanier, Editor of "The Boy's Froissart."

Brazil : the Amazons, and the Coast. By Herbert H. Smith.
With 115 Full-page and other Illustrations. Demy Svo, 650 pp., 21s.

Brazil and the Brazilians. By J. C. Fletcher and D. P.
Kidder. 9th Edition, Illustrated, Svo, 21s.

Breton Folk : An Artistic Tour in Brittany. By Henry
Blackburn, Author of "Artists and Arabs," "Normandy Picturesque,"
Sec. With 171 Illustrations by Randolph Caldecott.
Imperial Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 21s.

Bricks without Straw. By the Author of " A Fool's Errand."
Crown 8vo, with numerous Illustrations, Js. 6d.

British Goblins : Welsh Folk-sore, Fairy Mythology, Legends,
and Traditions. By Wirt Sykes, United States Consul for Wales.
With Illustrations by J. Ff. Thomas. This account of the Fairy
Mythology and Folk-Lore of his Principality is, by permission, dedicated
to H.R.H. the Prince of Wales. Second Edition. Svo, 180.

Buckle henry Thomas) The Life and Writings of By Alfred

Henry Hath. With Portrait. 2 vols., demy Svo.
Burney capt.) See "On Horseback."

Burn ham Beeches sheath, F G.). With numerous Illustrations
and a Map. Crown Svo, cloth, gilt edges, 3c 6d. Second Edition.

Butler { W. F.) Trie Great Lone Land ; an Account of the Red
River Expedition, 1869-70. "With Illustrations and Map. Fifth and
Cheaper Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, Js. 6d.

. The Wild North Land ; the Story of a Winter Journey

with Dogs across Northern North America. Demy Svo, cloth, with
numerous Woodcuts and a Map, 4th Edition, i8j-. Cr. Svo, js. 6d.

Akim-foo : the History of a Failure. Demy Svo, cloth,

2nd Edition, i6j\ Also, in crown Svo, Js. 6d.

r* A DOG AN lady A.) Illustrated Games of Patience.

^ Twenty four Diagrams in Colours, with Descriptive Text. Foolscap
4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 3rd Edition, \2s. 6d.

Caldecott {P.). See " Breton Folk."

Celebrated Travels and Travellers. See Verne.

Changed Cross the), and other Religious Poems. imo, 2s. 6d.

Child of the Cavern {Tlie) ; or, Strange Doings Underground.
By Jules Verne. Translated by W. H. G. Kingston. Numerous
Illustrations. Sq. cr. Svo, gilt edges, 7a 6d. ; cl., plain edges, Jr.

Child's Play, with 1 6 Coloured Drawings by E. V. B. Printed
on thick paper, with tints, Js. 6d.

New. By E. V. B. Similar to the above. See New.

A New and Cheap Edition of the two above, containing
48 Illustrations by E. V. B., printed in tint, handsomely
bound, 3s. 6d.

Children's Lives and How to Preserve Them ; or, The Nursery
Handbook. By W. Lamas, M. D. Crown 8vo, cloth, 5j.

Choice Editions of Choice Books. 2s. 6d. each, Illustrated by
C. W. Cope, R.A., T. Keswick, R.A., E. Duncan, Birket
Foster, J. C. Horsey, A.R.A., G. Hicks, R. Redgrave, R.A.,
C. Stonehouse, F. Taylor, G. Thomas, H. J. Townshend,
E. H. Werner, Harrison Weir, &c.

Milton's L' Allegro.

Bloomfield's Farmer's Boy.
Campbell's Pleasures of Hope.
Coleridge's Ancient Mariner.
Goldsmith's Deserted Village.
Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield.
Gray's Elegy in a Churchyard.
Neat's Eve of St. Agnes.

Poetry of Nature. Harrison Weir.
Rogers' (Sam. ) Pleasures of Memory
Shakespeare's Songs and Sonnets.
Tennyson's May Queen.
Elizabethan Poets.
Wordsworth's Pastoral Poems.

Such works are a glorious beatification for a poet." — At/ientBum.

Christ in Song. By Dr. Philip Chaff. A New Edition,

Revised, cloth, gilt edges, 6s.
Cobbett ( William). A Biography. By Edward Smith. 2

vols., crown 8vo, 25^.
Confessions of a Frivolous Girl ( The) : A Novel of Fashionable

Life. Edited by Robert Grant. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Cradle-Land of Arts and Creeds ; or, Nothing New wider the

Sun. By Charles J. Stone, Barrister-at-law, and late Advocate,

High Courts, Bombay. 8vo, pp. 420, cloth, 14J.

Cripps the Carrier. 3rd Edition, 6s. See Blackmore.

Cruise ofH.M.S. " Challenger" (The). By W. J. J. Spry, Ren.
With Route Map and many Illustrations. 6th Edition, demy8vo, cloth,
i8j. Cheap Edition, crown 8vo, some of the Illustrations, Js. 6d.

Curious Adventures of a Field Cricket. By Dr. Ernest
Candle. Translated by N. Dangers. With numerous fine
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, gilt, p. 6d. ; plain binding and edges, $s.

JT\ANA (P. Li.) Two Years before the Mast and Twenty-four
-*-^ years After. Revised Edition, with Notes, imo, 6s.
Daughter (A) of Heth. By W. Black. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Day of My Life (A) ; or, Every Day Experiences at Eton.

By an Eton Boy, Author of " About Some Fellows." l6mo, cloth

extra, 2s. 6d. 6th Thousand.

Diane. By Mrs. Macquoid. Crown Svo, 6s.

Dick Cheveley : his Fortunes and Misfortunes. By W. H. G.

Kingston. 350 pp., square imo, and 22 full-page Illustrations.

Cloth, gilt edges, js. 6d. ; plainer binding, plain edges, 5*.

Dick Sands, the Boy Captain. By Jules Verne. With
nearly 100 Illustrations, cloth, gilt, I or. 6d. ; plain binding and plain
edges, 5-r.

Dictionary general) of Archeology and Antiquities. From
the French of E. Bos. Crown 8vo, with nearly 200 Illustrations,
1 or. dd.

Dodge mrs. M.) Hans Br biker; or, the Silver Skates. An
entirely New Edition, with 59 Full-page and other Woodcuts.
Square crown 8vo, cloth extra, $s. ; Text only, paper, is.

Dogs of Assize. A Legal Sketch-book in Black and White.
Containing 6 Drawings by Walter J. Allen. Folio, in wrapper, 6s. 8d.

Might Cousins. See Alcott.

Eighteenth Century Studies. Essays by F. Henchman.

Demy 8vo, i&r.
Elementary Education In Saxony. By J. L. Ashford, M.A.,

Trin. Coll., Camb. For Masters and Mistresses of Elementary

Schools. Sewn, is.
Elinor Dry den. By Mrs. Macquoid. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Embroidery handbook of). By L. Higgins. Edited by Lady
Marian Afford, and published by authority of the Royal School of
Art Needlework. With 16 page Illustrations, Designs for Borders,
&c. Crown 8vo, 5*.

English Philosophers. Edited by I wan Muller, M.A., New
College, Oxon. A Series of Volumes containing short biographies
of the most celebrated English Philosophers, to each of whom is
assigned a separate volume, giving as comprehensive and detailed a
statement of his views and contributions to Philosophy as possible,
explanatory rather than critical, opening with a brief biographical
sketch, and concluding with a short general summary, and a bibliographical
appendix. The Volumes will be issued at brief intervals, in
square imo, %s. 6d., containing about 200 pp. each.

The following are in the press : —
Bacon. Professor Fowler, Professor of Logic in Oxford.
Berkeley. Professor T. H. Green, Professor of Moral Philosophy,

Oxford.
Hamilton. Professor Monk, Professor of Moral Philosophy, Dublin.

\Rtady.
J. S. Mill. Helen Taylor, Editor of " The Works of Buckle," &c.

English Philosophers (continued) : —

Manse. Rev. J. H. Huckin, Dad., Head Master of Repton.
Adam Smith. J. A. Farmer, MA., Author of "Primitive

Manners and Customs." [Ready.

Hobbes. A. H. Posset, B.A., Fellow of New College, Oxford.
Bentham. G. E. Buckle, M.A., Fellow of All Souls', Oxford.
Austin. Harry Johnson, B.A., late Scholar of Queen's College,

Oxford.
Hartley. "> E. S. Bowen, B.A., late Scholar of New College,
James Mill. ) Oxford. [Ready.

Hud e e S son y-}^ssorrow LER .

Arrangements are in progress for volumes on Locke, Hume, Paley, Reid, &*c.

Episodes of French History. Edited, with Notes, Genealogical,
Historical, and other Tables, by Gustave Masson, B.A.

1. Charlemagne and the Carlovingrians.

2. Louis XI. and the Crusades.

3. Francis I. and Charles V.

4. Francis I. and the Renaissance.

The above Series is based upon M. Guizot's "History of France'
Each volume is choicely Illustrated, with Maps, 2s. 6d.

Enema ; or, My Father's Sin. See Blackmore.

Etcher the). Containing 36 Examples of the Original
Etched-work of Celebrated Artists, amongst others : Birket Foster,
J. E. Hodgson, R.A., Colin Hunter, J. P. Heseltine, Robert
W. Macbeth, R. S. Charnock, H. R. Robertson, &c, &c.
Imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2/. 12s. 6d.

Eton. See " Day of my Life," " Out of School," " About Some
Fellows."

Evans (C.) Over the Hills and Far Away. By C. Evans.
One Volume, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

A Strange Friendship. Crown 8vo, cloth, $s.

Eve of Saint Agnes (The). By John Keats. Illustrated with
Nineteen Etchings by Charles O. Murray. Folio, cloth extra, 21s.
An Edition de Luxe on large paper, containing proof impressions, has
been printed, and specially bound, 3/. 2> s -

T^ARM Ballads. By Will Carleton. Boards, is. ; cloth,
•*- gilt edges, If. 6d.

Fern Paradise (The) : A Plea for the Culture of Ferns. By
F. G. Heath. New Edition, entirely Rewritten, Illustrated with
Eighteen full-page, numerous other Woodcuts, including 8 Plates of
Ferns and Four Photographs, large post 8vo, cloth, gilt edges, \2s. 6d,
Sixth Edition. In 12 Parts, sewn, is. each, \

Fern World (The). By F. G. Heath. Illustrated by Twelve
Coloured Plates, giving complete Figures (Sixty-four in all) of every
Species of British Fern, printed from Nature ; by several full-page
Engravings. Cloth, gilt, 6th Edition, \2s. 6d.

Mr. Heath has really given us good, well-written descriptions of our native
Ferns, with indications of their habitats, the conditions under which they grow
naturally, and under which they may be cultivated." — Athenaeum.

Few (A) Hints on Proving Wills. Enlarged Edition, is.
First Steps in Conversational French Grammar. By F. Julien.

Being an Introduction to " Petites Lemons de Conversation et de

Grammaire," by the same Author. Fcap. 8vo, 128 pp., is.
Flooding of the Sahara (The). See Mckenzie.
Food for the People ; or, Lentils and other Vegetable Cookery.

By E. E. Orlebar. Third Thousand. Small post 8vo, boards, is.
Fools Errand (A). By One of the Fools. Author of Bricks

without Straw. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations,

8s. 6d.
Footsteps of the Master. See Stowe (Mrs. Beecher).

Forbidden Land (A) : Voyages to the Core. By G. Pert.

Numerous Illustrations and Maps. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 21s.
Four Lectures o?i Electric Induction. Delivered at the Royal
Institution, 1878-9. By J. E. H. Gordon, B.A. Cantab. With
numerous Illustrations. Cloth limp, square imo, 3-f.
Foreign Countries and the British Colonies. Edited by F. S.
Pulling, M.A., Lecturer at Queen's College, Oxford, and formerly
Professor at the Yorkshire College, Leeds. A Series of small Volumes
descriptive of the principal Countries of the World by well-known
Authors, each Country being treated of by a Writer who from
Personal Knowledge is qualified to speak with authority on the Subject.
The Volumes average 180 crown 8vo pages each, contain 2 Maps
and Illustrations, crown 8vo, 3-f. 6d.

The following is a List of the Volumes : —
Denmark and Iceland. By E. C. Motte, Author of " Scandinavian

History," &c.
Greece. By L. Sergeant, B.A., Knight of the Hellenic Order

of the Saviour, Author of " New Greece."
Switzerland. By W. A. P. Coolidge, M.A., Fellow of

Magdalen College, Editor of The Alpine Journal.
Austria. By D. Kay, F.R.G.S.
Russia. By W. R. Merrill, M.A., Oriel College, Oxford,

Lecturer on the Rochester Foundation, &c.
Persia. By Major-Gen. Sir F. J. Goldsmith, K.C.S.I., Author of

Telegraph and Travel," &c.
Japan. By S. Mossman, Author of " New Japan," &c.
Peru. By Clements H. Markham, M.A., Cab.
Canada. By W. Fraser Rae, Author of "Westward by

Rail," &c.

Foreign Countries continued) : —

Sweden and Norway. By the Rev. F. H. Woods, M.A., Fellow

of St. John's College, Oxford.
The West Indies. By C. H. Eden, F.R.G.S., Author of 'frozen

Asia," &c.
New Zealand.
Prance. By Miss M. Roberts, Author of " The Atelier du Lys.'

Mille. Mori," &c.
Egypt. By S. Lane Poole, B.A., Author of "The Life of Edward

Lane," &c.
Spain. By the Rev. Wentworth Webster, M.A., Chaplain at

St. Jean de Lus.
Turkey-in-Asia. By J. C. McCoAN, M.P.
Australia. By J. F. Vesey Fitzgerald, late Premier of New

South Wales.
Holland. Ey R. L. Poole.
Franc maude Jane). The following form one Series, small
post 8vo, in uniform cloth bindings, with gilt edges: —

Emily's Choice. $s.

Hall's Vineyard. 4s.

john's Wife : a Story of Life in South Australia. 4s.

Marian ; or, the Light of Some One's Home. $s.

Silken Cords and Iron Fetters. 4s.

Vermont Vale. $s.

Minnie's Mission. 4s.

Little Mercy. $s.
Beatrice Melton's Discipline. 4s.

Froissart (27ie Boy's). Selected from the Chronicles of England,
France, Spain, &c. By Sidney Lanier. The Volume is
fully Illustrated, and uniform with ' ' The Boy's King Arthur." Crown
8vo, cloth, Js. 6d.

SHAMES of Patience. See Cadogan.

Gentle Life (Queen Edition). 2 vols, in 1, small 4to, 105. 6d.

THE GENTLE LIFE SERIES.

Price 6s. each ; or in calf extra, price 10s. 6d. ; Smaller Edition, cloth
extra, 2s. 6d.
A Reprint (with the exception of " Familiar Words " and "Other
People's Windows ") has been issued in very neat limp cloth bindings
at 2s. 6d. each.
The Gentle Life. Essays in aid of the Formation of Character
of Gentlemen and Gentlewomen. 21st Edition.

Deserves to be printed in letters of gold, and circulated in every house." —
Chambers' Journal,

The Gentle Life Series (continued) : —

About in the World. Essays by Author of " The Gentle Life."

It is not easy to open it at any page without finding some handy idea." — Morn-trim
Post.

Like unto Christ. A New Translation of Thomas a Kempis'
De Imitation Christi." 2nd Edition.

Could not be presented in a more exquisite form, for a more sightly volume was
never seen." — Illustrated London News.

Familiar Words. An Index Variorum, or Quotation Handbook.
Affording an immediate Reference to Phrases and Sentences
that have become embedded in the English language. 4th and
enlarged Edition. 6j\

"The most extensive dictionary of quotation we have met with." — Notes and
Queries.

Essays by Montaigne. Edited and Annotated by the Author
of "The Gentle Life." With Portrait. 2nd Edition.

We should be glad if any words of ours could help to bespeak a large circulation
for this handsome attractive book." — Illustrated Times.

The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia. Written by Sir Philip
Sidney. Edited with Notes by Author of " The Gentle Life." Js. 6d.

"All the best things are retained intact in Mr. Friswell's edition." — Examiner.

The Gentle Life. 2nd Series, 8th Edition.

There is not a single thought in the volume that does not contribute in some
measure to the formation of a true gentleman." — Daily News.

The Silent Hour: Essays, Original and Selected. By the
Author of "The Gentle Life." 3rd Edition.
"All who possess ' The Gentle Life ' should own this volume." — Standard.

Half-length Portraits. Short Studies of Notable Persons.

By J. Hain Friswell.
Essays on English Writers, for the Self-improvement of

Students in English Literature.

"To all who have neglected to read and study their native literature we would

certainly suggest the volume before us as a fitting introduction." — Examiner.

Other People 's Windows. By J. Hain Friswell. 3rd Edition.

"The chapters are so lively in themselves, so mingled with shrewd views of
human nature, so full of illustrative anecdotes, that the reader cannot fail to be
amused. " — Mor 7iing Post.

A Man's Thoughts. By J. Hain Friswell.

German Primer. Being an Introduction to First Steps in

German. By M. T. Pre. 2s. 6d.
Getting On in the World ; or, Hints on Success in Life. By

W. Mathews, LL.D. Small post 8vo, cloth, is. 6d. ; gilt edges, jr. 6d.
Gilpin's Forest Scenery. Edited by F. G. Heath. Large

post 8vo, with numerous Illustrations. Uniform with "The Fern

World," 12s. 6d. In 6 monthly parts, 2s. each.

Gordon (J. E. H). See " Four Lectures on Electric Induction,"
" Physical Treatise on Electricity," &c.

Gouffe. The Royal Cookery Book. By Jules Gouffe ; translated
and adapted for English use by Alphonse Gouffe, Head
Pastrycook to her Majesty the Queen. Illustrated with large plates
printed in colours. 161 Woodcuts, 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2/. 2s.

Domestic Edition, half-bound, 10s. 6d.

By far the ablest and most complete work on cookery that has ever been submitted
to the gastronomical world." — Pall Mall Gazette.

Great Artists. See " Biographies."

Great Historic Galleries of England the). Edited by Lord
Ronald Gower, F.S.A., Trustee of the National Portrait Gallery.
Illustrated by 24 large and carefully-executed permanent Photographs
of some of the most celebrated Pictures by the Great Masters. Imperial
4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 36J.

Great Musicians (The). A Series of Biographies of the Great
Musicians. Edited by F Suffer.

5. Rossini, and the Modern Italian

School. By H. Sutherland
Edwards.

6. Marcello. By Arrigo Boito.

7. Purcell. By H. W. Cummings.

1. Wag-ner. By the Editor.

2. "Weber. By Sir Julius

Benedict.

3. Mendelssohn. By Joseph

Bennett.

4. Schubert. By H. F. Frost.
# * Dr. Hiller and other distinguished writers, both English and

Foreign, have promised contributions. Each Volume is complete in
itself. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 3^.

Guizot History of France. Translated by Robert Black.
Super-royal 8vo, very numerous Full-page and other Illustrations. In
8 vols. , cloth extra, gilt, each 24?.

It supplies a want which has long been felt, and ought to be in the hands of all
students of history." — Times.

Masson's School Edition. The

History of France from the Earliest Times to the Outbreak of the
Revolution; abridged from the Translation by Robert Black, M.A.,
with Chronological Index, Historical and Genealogical Tables, &c.
By Professor Gustave Masson, B.A., Assistant Master at Harrow
School. With 24 full-page Portraits, and many other Illustrations.
I vol., demy 8vo, 600 pp., cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

Guizot History of England. In 3 vols, of about 500 pp. each,
containing 60 to 70 Full-page and other Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt,
24s - . each.

For luxury of typography, plainness of print, and beauty of illustration, these
volumes, of which but one has as yet appeared in English, will hold their own
against any production of an age so luxurious as our own in everything, typography
not excepted." — Times.

Guy on (Mde.) Life. By Upham. 6th Edition, crown 8vo, 6s.

Handbook to the Charities of London. See Low's.

of Embroidery ; which see.

to the Principal Schools of England. See Practical.

Half-hours of Blind Man's Holiday ; or, Summer and Winter

Sketches in Black and White. ByW. W. Penn, Author of "After

Sundown," &c. 2 vols., cr. 8vo, 24J.
Hall (W. W.) How to Live Long; or, 1408 Health Maxims,

Physical, Mental, and Moral. By W. W. Hall, A.M., M.D.

Small post 8vo, cloth, 2s. Second Edition.
Hans Drinker; or, the Silver Skates. See Dodge.
Harper's Monthly Magazine. Published Monthly. 160 pages,

fully Illustrated, is. With two Serial Novels by celebrated Authors.
' Harper's Magazine ' is so thickly sown with excellent illustrations that's count

them would be a work of time ; not that it is a picture magazine, for the engravings

illustrate the text after the manner seen in some of our choicest editions deluge" —

St. James's Gazette.

It is so pretty, so big, and so cheap. . . . An extraordinary shillings worth —

160 large octavo pages, with over a score of articles, and more than three times as

man' illustrations." — Edinburgh Daily Review.

An amazing shillings worth . . . combining choice literature of both nations." —

Nonconformist.

Heart of Africa. Three Years' Travels and Adventures in the
Unexplored Regions of Central Africa, from 1868 to 1 87 1. By Dr.
George Schweinfurth. Numerous Illustrations, and large Map.
2 vols., crown 8vo, cloth, 15.?.

Heath francis George). See " Fern World' " Fern Paradise,"
"Our Woodland Trees," "Trees and Ferns," "Gilpin's Forest
Scenery," " Burnham Beeches," "Sylvan Spring," &c.

Heber's bishop) Illustrated Edition of Hymns. With upwards
of 100 beautiful Engravings. Small 4to, handsomely bound, 7s. 6d.
Morocco, i%s. 6d. and2ij. An entirely New Edition.

Heir of Kilfinnan the). New Story by W. H. G. Kingston,

Author of " Snow Shoes and Canoes," &c. With Illustrations. Cloth,
gilt edges, Js. 6d. ; plainer binding, plain edges, Jr.

History and Handbook of Photography. Translated from the
French of Gaston Islander. Edited by J. Thomson. Imperial
imo, over 300 pages, 70 Woodcuts, and Specimens of Prints by the
best Permanent Processes. Second Edition, with an Appendix by
the late Mr. Henry Fox Talbot. Cloth extra, 6s.

History of a Crime (The) ; Deposition of an Eye-witness. By
Victor Hugo. 4 vols., crown 8vo, 42^. Cheap Edition, 1 vol., 6s.

Ancient Art. Translated from the German of John

Winckelmann, by John Lodge, M.D. With very numerous
Plates and Illustrations. 2 vols., 8vo, 26s.

England. See Guizot.

France. See Guizot.

History of Russia. See Rambled.

Merchant Shipping. See Lindsay.

United States. See Bryant.

History and Principles of Weaving by Hand and by Power. With
several hundred Illustrations. By Alfred Barlow. Royal 8vo,
cloth extra, \l. $s. Second Edition.

How I Crossed Africa : from the Atlantic to the midian Oceafi,
Through Unknown Countries ; Discovery of the Great Zambesi
Affluents, &c— Vol. I., The King's Rifle. Vol II., The Collar
Family. By Major Sera Pinto. With 24 full-page and 118 half-page
and smaller Illustrations, 13 small Maps, and I large one.
2 vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 42J.

How to Live Long. See Hall.

How to get Strong and how to Stay so. By William Bailie.
A Manual of Rational, Physical, Gymnastic, and other Exercises.
With Illustrations, small post 8vo, $s.

Hugo ( Victor) "Ninety-three." Illustrated. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Toilers of the Sea. Crown 8vo. Illustrated, 6s. ; fancy

boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d. ; On large paper with all the original
Illustrations, I or. 6d.

See " History of a Crime."

Hundred Greatest Men the). 8 portfolios, 215-. each, or 4
vols., half morocco, gilt edges, 12 guineas, containing 15 to 20
Portraits each. See below.

"Messrs. Sampson Low & Co. are about to issue an important ' International'
work, entitled, 'THE HUNDRED GREATEST MEN;' being the Lives and
Portraits of the hoo Greatest Men of History, divided into Eight Classes, each Class
to form a Monthly Quarto Volume. The Introductions to the volumes are to be
written by recognized authorities on the different subjects, the English contributors
being Dean Stanley, Mr. Matthew Arnold, Mr. Fronde, and Professor Max
Muller: in Germany, Professor Helmholtz ; in France, MM. Taine and
Renal ; and in America, Mr. Emerson. The Portraits are to be Reproductions
from fine and rare Steel Engravings"— Academy.

Hygiene aid Public Health (A Treatise on). Edited by A. H.

Buck, M.D. Illustrated by numerous Wood Engravings. In 2

royal 8vo vols. , cloth, one guinea each.
Hymnal Companion to Book of Common Prayer. See

BlCKERSTETH.

Illustrated Text-Books of Art-Education. Edited by
■L Edward J. Pointer, R.A. Each Volume contains numerous Illustrations,
and is strongly bound for the use of Students, price 5-r. The
Volumes now ready are : —

PAINTING.

Classic and Italian. By Percy
R. Head. With 50 Illustrations,
german,

Flemish., and Dutch.
French and Spanish.
English and American.

Illustrated Text Books continued) : —

ARCHITECTURE.

Classic and Early Christian.

Gothic and Renaissance. By T. Roger Smith, With 50 Illustrations,
$s.

SCULPTURE.

Antique : Egyptian and Greek. | Renaissance and Modern.

ORNAMENT.

Decoration in Colour. | Architectural Ornament.

Illustrations of China and its People. By J. Thompson,
F.R.G.S. Four Volumes, imperial 4to, each 3/. *$s.

/// my Indian Garden. By Phil Robinson, Author of " Under
the Punkah." With a Preface by Edwin Arnold, M. A., C.S.I., &c
Crown 8vo, limp cloth, 3^. 6d.

Involuntary Voyage (An). Showing how a Frenchman who
abhorred the Sea was most unwillingly and by a series of accidents
driven round the World. Numerous Illustrations. Square crown
Svo, cloth extra, *]s. 6J. ; plainer binding, plain edges, 5-r.

Irish Bar. Comprising Anecdotes, Bon-mots, and Biographical
Sketches of the Bench and Bar of Ireland. By J. Frederick
Flanagan, Barrister-at-law. Crown Svo, \2s. Second Edition.

Irish Land Question, and English Public Opinion (The). With
a Supplement on Griffith's Valuation. By R. Barry O'Brien,
Author of " The Parliamentary History of the Irish Land Question."
Fcap. Svo, cloth, 2s.

Irving (Washington). Complete Library Edition of his Works
in 27 Vols., Copyright, Unabridged, and with the Author's Latest
Revisions, called the " Geoffrey Crayon" Edition, handsomely printed
in large square 8vo, on superfine laid paper, and each volume, of
about 500 pages, will be fully Illustrated. 12s. 6</. per vol. See also
"LiL tie Britain."

Cm CK and will. By Miss Alcott. Small post Svo, cloth,
J gilt edges, $s. With numerous Illustrations.

John Iloldszcorth, Chief Mate. By W. Clarke Russell,
Author of "Wreck of the Grosvenor." Crown 8vo, 6s.

KINGSTON (W. H. G.). See "Snow-shoes," «•' Child of

-**" the Cavern," "Two Supercargoes," "With Axe and Rifle,"

"Begum's Fortune," " Heir of Kilfinnan," "Dick Cheveley." Each

vol., with very numerous Illustrations, square crown imo, gilt edges,

Js. 6ci.; plainer binding, pain edges, $s.

T A DY Silver dale's Sweetheart. 6s. See Black.

Lenten Meditations. In Two Series, each complete in itself.

By the Rev. Claude Banquet, Author of "Blossoms from the

King's Garden." imo, cloth, First Series, is. 6d. ; Second Series, 2s.
Library of Religious Poetry. A Collection of the Best Poems

of all Ages and Tongues. With Biographical and Literary Notes.

Edited by Philip Chaff, Dad., LL.D., and Arthur Lilian,

M. A. Royal 8vo, pp. 1036, cloth extra, gilt edges, 21;.
Life and Letters of the Honourable Charles Sumner the).

2 vols., royal 8vo, cloth. Second Edition, 36^.
Lindsay (IV. S.) History of Merchant Shipping and Ancient

Commerce. Over 150 Illustrations, Maps, and Charts. In 4 vols.,

demy 8vo, cloth extra. Vols. I and 2, 21s. ; vols. 3 and 4, 24J. each.
Little Britain ; together with The Spectre Bridegroom, and A

Legend of Sleepy Hollow. By Washington Irving. An entirely

New Edition de luxe, specially suitable for Presentation. Illustrated

by 120 very fine Engravings on Wood, by Mr. J. D. COOPER.

Designed by Mr. Charles O. Murray. Square crown 8vo, cloth

extra, gilt edges, ioj\ 6d.
Little King ; or, the Tanning of a Young Russian Count. By

S. Brandy. 64 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, gilt edges, p. 6d. ; plainer

binding, $s.
Little Mercy ; or, For Better for Worse. By Maude Jeanne

Franc, Author of "Marian," "Vermont Vale," &c, &c. Small

post 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. Second Edition.
Lost Sir Massinger. New Edition, crown 8vo, boards, coloured

wrapper, 2s.
Low's German Series —

1. The Illustrated German Primer. Being the easiest introduction

to the study of German for all beginners, is.

2. The Children's own German Book. A Selection of Amusing

and Instructive Stories in Prose. Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissner.
Small post 8vo, cloth, is. 6d.

3. The First German Reader, for Children from Ten to

Fourteen. Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissner. Small post 8vo,
cloth, is. 6d.

4. The Second German Reader. Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissner.

Small post 8vo, cloth, is. 6d.

Buchheini 's Deutsche Prosa. Two Volumes, sold separately : —

5. Schiller's Prosa. Containing Selections from the Prosa Works

of Schiller, with Notes for English Students. By Dr. Buchheim.
Small post 8vo, 2s. 6d.

6. Goethe's Prosa. Selections from the Prosa Works of Goethe,

with Notes for English Students. By Dr. Buchheim, Small
post 8vo, 3-r. 6d.

Low's International Series of Toy Books. 6d. each; or
Mounted on Linen, is.

1. Little Fred and his Fiddle, from Asbjornsen's "Norwegian

Fairy Tales."

2. The Lad and the North Wind, ditto.

3. The Pancake, ditto.

4. The Little Match Girl, from H. C. Andersen's " Danish

Fairy Tales."

5. The Emperor's New Clothes, ditto.

6. The Gallant Tin Soldier, ditto.

The above in 1 vol., cloth extra, gilt edges, with the whole 36
Coloured Illustrations, 5*.

Low's Standard Library of Travel and Adventure. Crown 8vo,
bound uniformly in cloth extra, price Js. 6d.

1. The Great Lone Land. By Major \V. F. Butler, Cab.

2. The Wild North Land. By Major W. F. Butler, Cab.

3. How I found Living-stone. By H. M. Stanley.

4. The Threshold of the Unknown Reg-ion. By C. R. Markham.

(4th Edition, with Additional Chapters, 10s. 6d.)

5. A Whaling Cruise to Baffin's Bay and the Gulf of Boothia.

By A. H. Markham.

6. Campaigning on the Oxus. By J. A. MacGahan.

7. Akim-foo: the History of a Failure. By Major \V. F.

Butler, Cab.

8. Ocean to Ocean. By the Rev. George M. Grant. With

Illustrations.

9. Cruise of the Challenger. By W. J, J. Spry, Ren.

10. Schweinfurth's Heart of Africa. 2 vols., 15^.

11. Through the Dark Continent. By H. M. Stanley, i vol.,

\2s. 6d.

Low's Standard Novels. Crown 8vOj 6s. each, cloth extra.

My Lady Greensleeves. By Helen Matters, Authoress of
Coming' through the Rye," " Cherry Ripe," &c.

Three Feathers. By William Black.

A Daughter of Heth. 13th Edition. By W. Black. With
Frontispiece by F. Walker, A.R.A.

Ailment. A Novel. By W. Black.

In Silk Attire. By W. Black.

Lady Coverdale's Sweetheart. By W. Black.

History of a Crime : The Story of the Coup d'Etat. By Victor
Hugo.

Low's Standard Novels continued) : —

Alice Lorraine. By R. D. Blackmore.

Lorna Done. By R. D. Blackmore. 8th Edition.

Crack Powell. By R. D. Blackmore.

Clara Aug-han. By R. D. Blackmore.

Cripps the Carrier. By R. D. BLACKMORE.

Enema ; or, My Father's Sin. By R. D. Blackmore.

Mary Waverley. By R. D. Blackmore.

Innocent. By Mrs. Oliphant. Eight Illustrations.

Work. A Story of Experience. By Louisa M. Alcott. Illustrations.
See also Rose Library.

The Afghan Knife. By R. A. Sterndale, Author of "Seonee."

A French Heiress in her own Chateau. By the Author of
One Only," " Constantia," &c. Six Illustrations.

Ninety-three. By Victor Hugo. Numerous Illustrations.

My Wife and I. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe.

Wreck of the Grosvenor. By W. Clark Russell.

John Holdsworth (Chief Mate). By W. Clark Russell.

Elinor Dryden. By Mrs. Macquoid.

Diane. By Mrs. Macquoid.

Pog-anuc People, Their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. Beecher
Stowe.

A Golden Sorrow. By Mrs. Castel Holy.

A Story of the Dragronnades ; or, Asylum Chris-ti. By the Rev.
E. William, M.A.

Low's Handbook to the Charities of London. Edited and
revised to date by C. Macedon, F.S.S., Editor of " A Guide to the
Churches of London and its Suburbs," &c. Paper, is. ; cloth, is. 6d.

l\/fACGAHAN {/.A.) Campaigning on the Ox us, and the
^-*- Fall of Khiva. With Map and numerous Illustrations, 4th Edition,
small post 8vo, cloth extra, "js. 6d.

Macgregor john) "Rob Roy" on the Baltic. 3rd Edition,
small post 8vo, 2s. 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, $ s - 6</.

A Thousand Miles in the "Rob Roy" Canoe, nth

Edition, small post 8vo, 2s. 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, t>s. 6d.

Description of the " Rob Roy" Canoe, with Plans,

is.

&c ;

The Voyage Alone in the Yawl "Rob Roy" New

Edition, thoroughly revised, with additions, small post 8vo, 5-r. ;
boards, 2s. 6d.

Mckenzie (D.) The Flooding of the Sahara. By Donald
Mckenzie. Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 10s. 6d.

Macquoid{Mrs.) Elinor Dry den. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s.

Diane. Crown Svo, 6s.

Magazine. See Harper.

Markham (C. R.) The Threshold of the Unknown Region.
Crown 8vo, with Four Maps, 4th Edition. Cloth extra, har. 6d.

Maury (Commander) Physical Geography of the Sea, and its
Meteorology. Being a Reconstruction and Enlargement of his former
Work, with Charts and Diagrams. New Edition, crown Svo, 6s.

Memoirs of Count Riot de Merito. 2 vols., demy 8vo, 365.

Memoirs of Madame de Remusat, 1802 — 1808. By her Grandson,
M. Paul de Remusat, Senator. Translated by Mrs. Castel
Holy and Mr. John Lille. 4th Edition, cloth extra. This
work was written by Madame de Remusat during the time she
was living on the most intimate terms with the Empress Josephine,
and is full of revelations respecting the private life of Bonaparte, and
of men and politics of the first years of the century. Revelations
which have already created a great sensation in Paris. 8vo, 2 vols., 32J.

Menus (366, one for each day of the year). Translated from the
French of Count Brisse, by Mrs. Matthew Clarke. Crown
Svo, vos. 6d.

Men of Mark : a Gallery of Contemporary Portraits of the most
Eminent Men of the Day taken from Life, especially for this publication,
price is. 6d. monthly. Vols. I., IE, III., IV., and V., handsomely
bound, cloth, gilt edges, 2$s. each.

Mendelssohn Family (The). Translated from the German of
E. Bock. Demy Svo,* carmichael

Strogoff. 10s. 6d. and 53-. See Verne.

Milford (Miss). See " Our Village."

Military Maxims. By Captain B. Telling. Medium imo,

in roan case, with pencil for the pocket, 10s. 6d.
Mountain and Prairie : a Journey from Victoria to Winnipeg,

vvx Peace River Pass. By the Rev. Daniel M. Gordon, Bed.,

Ottawa. Small post Svo, with Maps and Illustrations, cloth extra,

Ss. 6d.
Music. See "Great Musicians."
My Lady Green sleeves. By Helen Matters, Authoress of

Coming' through the Rye," "Cherry Ripe, 5 ' &c. I vol. edition.

crown 8vo, cloth, 6s.

Mysterious Island. By Jules Verne. 3 vols., imperial 1 6mo.

150 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 3s. 6d. each ; elaborately bound, gilt
edges, Js. 6d. each. Cheap Edition, with some of the Illustrations,
cloth, gilt, 2s. ; paper, is. each.

National Music of the World. By the late Henry F.
"*■ V Chorley. Edited by H. G. Hewlett. Crown 8vo, cloth, Ss. 6d.

Naval Brigade in South Africa (The). By Henry F. Nor-bury,
Cab., Ren. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, iox. 6d.

New Child's Play (A). Sixteen Drawings by E. V. B. Beautifully
printed in colours, 4*0, cloth extra, 12s. 6d.

New Guinea (A Few Months in). By Octaves C. Stone,
F.R.G.S. With numerous Illustrations from the Author's own
Drawings. Crown 8vo, cloth, 12s.

What I did and what I saw. By L. M. Albertus,

Officer of the Order of the Crown of Italy, Honorary Member and
Gold Medallist of the I.R.G.S., C.M.Z.S., &c, &c. In 2 vols.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Maps, Coloured Plates, and numerous
very fine Woodcut Illustrations, 42J.

New Ireland. By A. M. Sullivan, M.P. for Louth. 2 vols.,
demy 8vo, 30J. Cheaper Edition, I vol. , crown 8vo, 8s. 6d.

New Novels. Crown 8vo, cloth, 10s. 6d. per vol. : —

Mary Marston. By George MacDonald. 3 vols. Third Edition.

Sarah de Bering-er. By Jean Angelo. 3 vols.

Don John. By Jean Angelo. 3 vols.

Sunrise : A Story of these Times. By William Black. 3 vols.

A Sailor's Sweetheart. By W. Clark Russell, Author of "The

Wreck of the Grosvenor," "John Holdsworth," &c. 3 vols.
Lisa Lena. By Edward Jenkins, Author of "Gin's Baby."

2 vols.

A Plot of the Present Day. By Kate Hope. 3 vols.

Black Abbey. By M. Crommelin, Author of "Queene," &c.

3 vols.

Flower o' the Broom. By the Author of "Rare Pale Margaret,"

3 vols.
The Grenadiers : A Tale of Berlin. Translated from the German

by Captain Wm. Savile. 3 vols.
Errant : A Life Story of Latter-day Chivalry. By Percy Greg,

Author of "Across the Zodiac," &c. 3 vols.
Fancy Free. By C. Gibbon. 3 vols.
The Saltwater Tragedy. By J. B. Aldrich.
Prince Fortune and Prince Fatal. By Mrs. Carrington,

Author of " My Cousin Maurice," &c. 3 vols.

New Novels continued) : —

An English Squire. By C. B. Coleridge, Author of "Lady

Betty," '' Hanbmy Wills," &c. 3 vols.
Christowell. By R. D. Blackmore. 3 vols.
Mr. Carol. By Miss Seguin. 3 vols.
David Broome, Artist. By Miss Reilly. 3 vols.
Braes of Yarrow. By Chas. Gibbon. 3 vols.

Nice and Her Neighbours. By the Rev. Canon Hole, Author
of "A Book about Roses," " A Little Tour in Ireland," &c. Small
4to, with numerous choice Illustrations, \zs. 6d.

Noble Words and Noble Deeds. From the French of E. Muller.
Containing many Full-page Illustrations by Philippoteaux. Square
imperial imo, cloth extra, ys. 6d. ; plainer binding, plain edges, $s.

North American Review the). Monthly, price 2s. 6d.

Nothing to Wear ; and Two Millions. By W. A. Butler.
New Edition. Small post 8vo, in stiff coloured wrapper, is.

Nursery Playmates prince of). 217 Coloured pictures for
Children by eminent Artists. Folio, in coloured boards, 6s.

f)BERAMM£RGAU Passion Play. See "Art in the
^ Mountains."

O'Brien. See " Parliamentary History " and " Irish Land
Question."

Old-fashioned Girl. See Alcott.

On Horseback through Asia Minor. By Capt. Fred Burney,
Royal Horse Guards, Author of "A Ride to Khiva." 2 vols.,
8vo, with three Maps and Portrait of Author, 6th Edition, 38^. ;
Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, 10s. 6d.

Our Little Ones in Heaven. Edited by the Rev. H. Robbins.
With Frontispiece after Sir Joshua Reynolds. Fcap., cloth extra,
New Edition — the 3rd, with Illustrations, $s.

Our Village. By Mary Russell Milford. Illustrated with

Frontispiece Steel Engraving, and 12 full-page and 157 smaller Cuts
of Figure Subjects and Scenes. Crown 4to, cloth, gilt edges, 2\s.

Our Woodland Trees. By F. G. Heath. Large post 8vo,
cloth, gilt edges, uniform with "Fern World " and " Fern Paradise,"
by the same Author. 8 Coloured Plates (showing leaves of every
British Tree) and 20 Woodcuts, cloth, gilt edges, \2s. 6d. Third
Edition.

DA INTERS of All Schools. By Louis Viardot, and other
-* Writers. 500 pp., super-royal 8vo, 20 Full-page and 70 smaller
Engravings, cloth extra, 25^. A New Edition is issued in Half-crown
parts, with fifty additional portraits, cloth, gilt edges, 3 1 J. 6d.

Painting (A Short History of the British School of). By
Geo. H. Shepherd. Post 8vo, cloth, y. 6d.

Palliser mrs. ) A History of Lace, from the Earliest Period.
A New and Revised Edition, with additional cuts and text, upwards
of 100 Illustrations and coloured Designs. I vol., 8vo, il. is.

Historic Devices, Badges, and War Cries. 8vo, 1/. is.

The China Collector's Pocket Companion. With upwards
of 1000 Illustrations of Marks and Monograms. 2nd Edition,
with Additions. Small post 8vo, limp cloth, 5s.

Parliamentary History of the Irish Land Question (The). From
1829 to 1869, and the Origin and Results of the Ulster Custom. By
R. Barry O'Brien, Barrister-at-law, Author of "The Irish Land
Question and English Public Opinion." 3rd Edition, corrected and
revised, with additional matter. Post Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

The Right Hon. \V. E. GLADSTONE, M.P., in a Letter to the Author, says:—
"I thank you for kindly sending me your work, and I hope that the sad and discreditable
story which you have told so well in your narrative of the Irish Land
Question may be useful at a period when we have more than ever of reason to desire
that it should be thoroughly understood."

Pathways of Palestine : a Descriptive Tour through the Holy
Land. By the Rev. Canon Tristan. Illustrated with 44 permanent
Photographs. (The Photographs are large, and most perfect
Specimens of the Art.) Published in 22 Monthly Parts, 4to, in
Wrapper, 2s. 6d. each.

. The Photographs which illustrate these pages may justly claim, as works
of art, to be the most admirably executed views which have been produced. . . .

"As the writer is on the point of making a fourth visit of exploration to the
country, any new discoveries which come under observation will be at once incorporated
in this work."

Peasant Life in the West of England. By Francis George
Heath, Author of "Sylvan Spring," "The Fern World." Crown
Svo, about 350 pp. r vos. 6d.

Petites Lemons de Conversation et de Grammaire : Oral and
Conversational Method; being Lessons introducing the most Useful
Topics of Conversation, upon an entirely new principle, &c. By
F. Julien, French Master at King Edward the Sixth's School,
Birmingham. Author of "The Student's French Examiner," "First
Steps in Conversational French Grammar," which see.

Phillips (L.) Dictionary of Biographical Reference. 8vo,
1/. 1 1 s. 6d.

Photography (History and Handbook of). See Islander.

Physical Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism. By J. E. H.
Gordon, B.A. With about 200 coloured, full-page, and other
Illustrations. Among the newer portions of the work may be
enumerated : All the more recent investigations on Striae by Scottish
De la Rue, Moulton, &c, an account of Mr. Crooked's recent
researches ; full descriptions and pictures of all the modern Magnetic
Survey Instruments now used at Kew Observatory ; full accounts of
all the modern work on Specific Inductive Capacity, and of the more
recent determination of the ratio of Electric units (v). In respect to
the number and beauty of the Illustrations, the work is quite unique.
2 vols., 8vo, 36^.

Pinto major Servia). See " How I Crossed Africa."

Plutarch's Lives. An Entirely New and Library Edition.
Edited by A. H. Clough, Esq. 5 vols., 8vo, 2/. har. ; half-morocco,
gilt top, 3/. Also in I vol., royal 8vo, 800 pp., cloth extra, 18s. ;
half-bound, 21 s.

Poems of the Inner Life. A New Edition, Revised, with many
additional Poems. Small post 8vo, cloth, $s.

Poganuc People: their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. Beecher
Stowe. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s.

Polar Expeditions. See Koldewey, Markham, MacGahan,
and Nares.

Pointer edward J., R.a). See " Illustrated Text-books."

Practical {A) Handbook to the Principal Schools of England.
By C. E. Pascoe. New Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 2 s - 6rt.

Prejevalsky {A r . M.) Ero?n Kulja, across the Tian Shan to Lob-nor.
Translated by E. Delmar Morgan, F.R.G.S. Demy 8vo,
with a Map. 16s.

Primitive Folk Moots ; or, Open-air Assemblies in Britain.
By George Laurence Gomme, F.S.A., Honorary Secretary to the
Folk-Lore Society, Author of "Index of Municipal Offices." 1 vol.,
crown 8vo, cloth, \2s.

This work deals with an earlier phase of the history of English
Institutions than has yet been attempted.

Publishers' Circular the), and General Record of British and
Foreign Literature. Published on the 1st and 15th of every Month, Ted.

Pyrenees the). By Henry Blackburn. With 100 Illustrations
by Gustave Dore, a New Map of Routes, and Information for
Travellers, corrected to 1881. With a description of Lourdes in jSSo.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, Js. 6d.

J2AMBA UD alfred). History of Russia, from its Origin
■*»■ to the Year 1877. With Six Maps. Translated by Mrs. L. B.
1 i 1 .2 vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 3%s.

Recollections of Writers. By Charles and Mary Bowden
Clarke. Authors of "The Concordance to Shakespeare," &c. ;
with Letters of Charles Lamb, Leigh Hunt, Douglas Ferrol,
and Charles Dickens ; and a Preface by Mary Bowden Clarke.
Crown 8vo, cloth, vos. 6d.

Remusat madame de). See " Memoirs of."

Robinson phil). See " In my Indian Garden," " Under the
Punkah."

Rochefoucauld s Refections. Bayard Series, 2s. 6d.

Rogers {S.) Pleasures of Memory. See " Choice Editions of
Choice Books." 2s. 6d.

Rose in Bloom. See Alcott.

The Rose Library. Popular Literature of all countries. Each
volume, is. ; cloth, 2s. 6d. Many of the Volumes are Illustrated—

1. Sea-Gull Rock. By Jules Sanded. Illustrated.

2. Little Women. By Louisa M. Alcott.

3. Little Women Wedded. Forming a Sequel to "Little Women."

4. The House on Wheels. By Madame de Stole. Illustrated.

5. Little Men. By Louisa M. Alcott. Able. vol., 2s. ; cloth, 3s. 6d.

6. The Old-fashioned Girl. By Louisa M. Alcott. Double

vol., 2s. ; cloth, 3s. 6d.

7. The Mistress of the Manse. By J. G. Holland.

8. Timothy Titcomb's Letters to Young People, Single and

Married.

9. Tending, and the Two Captains. By Baron De La Motte

Fouquet. A New Translation by F. E. Bennett. Illustrated.

10. Dray Miller's Dowry, and the Elder's Wife. By Saxe

Holm.

11. The Four Gold Pieces. By Madame Gourd. Numerous

Illustrations.

12. Work. A Story of Experience. First Portion. By Louisa M.

Alcott.

13. Beginning Again. Being a Continuation of "Work." By

Louisa M. Alcott.

14. Picciola; or, the Prison Flower. By X. B. Painting.

Numerous Graphic Illustrations.

The Rose Library continued) : —

15. Robert's Holidays. Illustrated.

16. The Two Children of St. Domingo. Numerous Illustrations.

17. Aunt Jo's Scrap Bags.

Stowe (Mrs. H, B.) The Pearl of Orr's Island.
19. The Minister's Wooing:.

20. Betty's Bright Idea.

21. ■ The Ghost in the Mill.

22. Captain Kidd's Money.

23. "We and our Neighbours. Double vol., 2s.

24. ■ My Wife and I. Double vol., 2s. ; cloth, gilt, 3.?. 6d.

25. Hans Drinker ; or, the Silver Skates.

26. Lowell's My Study Window.

27. Holmes (O. W.) The Guardian Angel.

28. Warner (C. D.) My Summer in a Garden.

29. Hitherto. By the Author of " The Gayworthys." 2 vols., is. each.

30. Helen's Babies. By their Latest Victim.

31. The Barton Experiment. By the Author of " Helen's Babies."

32. Died. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe. Double vol., 2s. ; cloth,

gilt, $s. 6d.

33. Warner (C. D.) In the Wilderness.

34. Six to One. A Seaside Story.

35. Nothing to Wear, and Two Millions.

36. Farm Ballads. By Will CarLeton.

Russell {IV. Clarke). See "A Sailor's Sweetheart," 3 vols.,
3Ij. 6d. ; "Wreck of the Grosvenor," 6s. ; "John Holdsworth (Chief
Mate," 6s.

Russell (W. FT., LL.D.) The Tour of the Prince of Wales in
India. By W. H. Russell, LL.D. Fully Illustrated by Sydney
P. Hall, M.A. Super* royal 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 5 2s. 6d.;
Large Paper Edition, 84J.

CAJVCTA Christina: a Story of the First Century. By
*^ Eleanor E. Orlebar. With a Preface by the Bishop of Winchester.
Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 5-y.

Seonee : Sporting in the Saturn Range of Central l7idia, and in
the Valley of the Nerbudda. By R. A. Sterndale, F.R.G.S. 8vo,
with numerous Illustrations, 2U.

Seven Years in South Africa : Travels, Researches, and Hunting
Adventures between the Diamond-Fields and the Zambesi (1872 —
1879). By Dr. Emil Holub. With over 100 Original Illustrations
and 4 Maps. In 2 vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 42^.

Serpent Charmer the) : a Tale of the Indian Mutiny. By
Louis Rousselet, Author of "India and its Native Princes."
Numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 7-r. 6d. ;
plainer binding, $s.

Shakespeare the Boudoir). Edited by Henry Wendell.
Carefully blackett for reading aloud ; freed from all objectionable
matter, and altogether free from notes. Price is. 6d. each volume,
cloth extra, gilt edges. Contents :— Vol I., Cymbeline — Merchant of
Venice. Each play separately, paper cover, is. Vol. II., As You
Like It — King Lear — Much Ado about Nothing. Vol. III., Romeo
and Juliet — Twelfth Night — King John. The latter six plays separately,
paper cover, gd.

Shakespeare Key ( The). Forming a Companion to " The
Complete Concordance to Shakespeare." By Charles and Mary
Bowden Clarke. Demy 8vo, 800 pp., 21s.

Shooting: its Appliances, Practice, and Purpose. By James
Daniel Dougall, F.S.A., F.Z.A., Author of "Scottish Field
Sports," &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ior. 6d.

"The book is admirable in every way We wish it every success"— Globe.

"A very complete treatise Likely to take high rank as an authority on

shooting." — Daily News.

Silent Hour ( Tie). See " Gentle Life Series."

Silver Pitchers. See Alcott.

Simon (rules). See " Government of M. Tiers."

Six to One. A Seaside Story. imo, boards, is.

Smith (G.) Assyrian Explorations and Discoveries. By the late
George Smith. Illustrated by Photographs and Woodcuts. Demy
8vo, 6th Edition, \%s.

The Chaldean Account of Genesis. By the late

G. Smith, of the Department of Oriental Antiquities, British Museum.
With many Illustrations. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 6th Edition, i6j-.

An entirely New Edition, completely revised and rewritten
by the Rev. Professor Sauce, Queen's College, Oxford.
Demy 8vo, i8x.

Snow-shoes and Canoes; or, the Adventures of a Fur-Hunter
in the Hudson's Bay Territory. By W. H. G. Kingston. 2nd
Edition. With numerous Illustrations. Square crown 8vo, cloth
extra, gilt edges, *js. 6d. ; plainer binding, $s.

Songs and Etchings in Shade and Sunshine. By J. E. G.
Illustrated with 44 Etchings. Small 4to, cloth, gilt tops, 25T.

South African Campaign, 1S79 the). Compiled by J. P.
MacKinnon (formerly 72nd Highlanders), and S. H. Shadbolt ;
and dedicated, by permission, to Field-marshal H. R.H. The Duke
of Cambridge. 4to, handsomely bound in cloth extra, 2/. vos.

South Kensington Museum. Published, with the sanction of
the Science and Art Department, in Monthly Parts, each containing
8 Plates, price is. Volume I., containing 12 numbers, handsomely
bound, 16s.

Stanley (If. M.) How I Found Livingstone. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, Js. 6d. ; large Paper Edition, 10s. 6d.

"My Kalulu," Prince, King, and Slave. A Story

from Central Africa. Crown 8vo. about 430 pp., with numerous graphic
Illustrations, after Original Designs by the Author. Cloth, Js. 6d.

Coomassie and Magdalen. A Story of Two British

Campaigns in Africa. Demy 8vo, with Maps and Illustrations, 16s.

Through the Dark Continent, which see.

Story of a Mountain (The). By E. Reclus. Translated by
Bertha Ness. 8vo, with Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt edges,
fs. 6d.

Story of a Soldier's Life ( The) ; or, Peace, War, and Mutiny.
By Lieut-general John Alexander Swart, Cab., Aide-de-camp
to the Queen from 1859 to 1872. 2 vols., demy 8vo, with Illustrations.


Story of the Zulu Campaign (The). By Major Ashe (late
King's Dragoon Guards), and Captain the Hon. E. V. 
(late 17th Lancers, killed at Ulundi). Dedicated by special
permission to Her Imperial Highness the Empress Eugene. 8vo, 16s.

Story without an End. From the German of Carve, by the late
Mrs. Sarah T. Austin. Crown 4to, with 15 Exquisite Drawings
by E. V. B., printed in Colours in Fac-simile of the original Water
Colours ; and numerous other Illustrations. New Edition, "js. 6d.

square 4to, with Illustrations by Harvey. 2s. 6d.

Stowe (Mrs. Beecher) Died. Cheap Edition, boards, 2s. Cloth,
gilt edges, $s. 6d.

Stowe (Mrs. Beecher) Footsteps of the Master. With Illustrations
and red borders. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Geography, with 6o Illustrations. Square cloth, 4s. 6d.

Little Foxes. Cheap Edition, is. ; Library Edition,

4?. 6d.

Betty's Bright Idea. is.

My Wife and I ; or, Harry Henderson' s History.

Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.*

Minister's Wooing. 5.?.; Copyright Series, is. 6d.- } cl., 2s*

Old Town Folk. 6s. ; Cheap Edition, 2s. 6d.

Old Town Fireside Stories. Cloth extra, y. 6d.

— — Our Folks at Poganuc. 10s. 6d.

We and our Neighbours. 1 vol., small post 8vo, 6s.

Sequel to "My Wife and I."*

Fink and White Tyranny. Small post 8vo, $s. 6d.

Cheap Edition, is. 6d, and 2s.

Queer Little People, is. \ cloth, 2s.

Chimney Corner, is. ; cloth, is. 6d.

The Pearl of Oris Island. Crown 8vo, $s*

— Little Pussy Willow. Fcap., 2s.

Woman in Sacred History. Illustrated with 15

Chromo-lithographs and about 200 pages of Letterpress. Dem
4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 25J.

Student's French Examiner. By F. Julien, Author of " Petites
Lessons de Conversation etdeGrammaire." Square crown 8vo, cloths

Studies in German Literature. By Bayard Taylor. Edited
by Marie Taylor. With an Introduction by the Hon. George
H. Broker. 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

See also Rose Library.

Studies in the Theory of Descent. By Dr. Aug. Weismann,
Professor in the University of Freiburg. Translated and edited by
Raphael Mendoza, F.C.S., Secretary of the Entomological Society
of London. Part I. — "On the Seasonal Dimorphism of Butterflies,"
containing Original Communications by Mr. W. H. Edwards, of
Coalburgh. With two Coloured Plates. Price of Part. I. (to Subscribers
for the-whole work only), 8s ; Part II. (6 coloured plates), 16s. ;
Part III., 6s.

Sugar Beet (The). Including a History of the Beet Sugar
Industry in Europe, Varieties of the Sugar Beet, Examination, Soils,
Tillage, Seeds and Sowing, Yield and Cost of Cultivation, Harvesting,
Transportation, Conservation, Feeding Qualities of the Beet and of
the Pulp, &c. By L. S. Ware. Illustrated. 8vo, cloth extra, 21s.

Sullivan (A. M., M.p). See " New Ireland."

Sulphuric Acid (A Practical Treatise on the Manufacture of).
By A. G. and C. G. Lock, Consulting Chemical Engineers. With
77 Construction Plates, and other Illustrations. Royal 8vo, 2/. 12s. 6 J.

Sumner (Hon. Charles). See Life and Letters.

Sunrise: A Story of These Times. By William Black,
Author of " A Daughter of Heth," &c. 3 vols., ^\s. 6d.

Surgeon's Handbook on the Treatment of Wounded in J Far. By
Dr. Friedrich Esmarch, Professor of Surgery in the University of
Kiel, and Surgeon General to the Prussian Army. Translated by
H. H. Glutton, B.A. Cantab, F.R.C.S. Numerous Coloured
Plates and Illustrations, 8vo, strongly bound in flexible leather, 1/. 8s.

Sylvan Spring. By Francis George Heath. Illustrated by

12 Coloured Plates, drawn by F. E. Hulme, F.L.S., Artist and
Author of " Familiar Wild Flowers;" by 16 full-page, and more than
IOO other Wood Engravings. Large post 8vo, cloth, gilt edges, 12s. 6d.

'TAUCHNITZS English, Editions of German Authors.

**■ Each volume, cloth flexible, 2s. ; or sewed, is. 6d. (Catalogues post
free on application. )

(B.) German and English Dictionary. Cloth, is. 6d.' }

roan, 2s,

French and English. Paper, is. 6d. ; cloth, 2s. ; roan

Zs. 6d.

Tauchnitz {B.) Italian and English Dictionary. Paper, is. 6d.;
cloth, 2s. ; roan, 2s. 6d.

Spanish and English. Paper, is. 6d. ; cloth, 2s. ; roan,

2s. 6d.

New Testament. Cloth, 2s. ; gilt, 2s. 6d.

Taylor bayard). See " Studies in German Literature."

Through America ; or, Nine Months in the United States. By
W. G. Marshall, M.A. With nearly hoo Woodcuts of Views of
Utah country and the famous Yosemite Valley ; The Giant Trees,
New York, Niagara, San Francisco, &c. ; containing a full account
of Mormon Life, as noted by the Author during his visits to Salt Lake
City in 1878 and 1879. In I vol., demy 8vo, 2\s.

Through the Dark Continent : The Sources of the Nile; Around
the Great Lakes, and down the Congo. By Henry M. Stanley.
2 vols., demy 8vo, containing 150 Full-page and other Illustrations,
2 Portraits of the Author, and 10 Maps, 42J. Seventh Thousand.
Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, with some of the Illustrations and Maps.
I vol., 12s. 6d.

Tour of the Prince of Wales in India. See Russell,

Trees and Ferns. By F. G. Heath. Crown 8vo, cloth, gilt
edges, with numerous Illustrations, 3-r. 6d.

Two Friends. By Lucien Biart, Author of " Adventures of
a Young Naturalist," " My Rambles in the New World," &c. Small
post 8vo, numerous Illustrations, gilt edges, Js. 6d. ; plainer binding, $s.

Two Supercargoes the) ; or, Adventures in Savage Africa.
By W. H. G. Kingston. Numerous Full-page Illustrations. Square
imperial imo, cloth extra, gilt edges, Js. 6d. ; plainer binding, $s.

J Under the Punkah. By Phil Robinson, Author of "In
^ my Indian Garden." Crown Svo, limp cloth, uniform with the
above, 3-r. 6d.

Up and Down; or, Fifty Years' Experiences in Australia,
California, New Zealand, India, China, and the South Pacific.
Being the Life History of Capt. W. J. Barry. Written by Himself.
With several Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 8s. 6d.

Large Cbowx 8vo

WORKS.

Containing 350 to 600 pp

and from 50 to 100
full-page illustrations.

In very
handsome
cloth binding,
gilt
edges.

Twenty Thousand Leagues

under the Sea. Part I.

Ditto. Part II.

Hector Servadac . . .

The Fur Country . . .

From the Earth to the
Moon and a Trip round
it

Michael Strogoff, the
Courier of the Czar . .

Dick Sands, the Boy
Captain

Five Weeks in a Balloon .

Adventures of Three Englishmen
and Three
Russians

Around the World in
Eighty Days . . ,

A Floating City . .

The Blockade Runners

Dr. Ox's Experiment ,

Master Zacharias . .

A Drama in the Air

A Winter amid the Ice

The Survivors of
Chancellor " . .

Martin Paz . . .

The Mysterious Island,
3 vols. :—

Vol. I. Dropped from the
Clouds

Vol. II. Abandoned . •.

Vol. III. Secret of the Island


The Child of the Cavern .

The Begum's Fortune . .

The Tribulations of a
Chinaman

The Steam Houses vols.: -

Vol. I. The Demon of Cawnpore
j

Vol. II. Tigers and Traitors

thes.

d.
10 6




10 6

10 6

10 6

7 6

7 6

7 6

7 G

7 G

22 6

} 7 6

In

plainer

binding,

plain

edges.

s. d.













3 6

3 6

3 6

3 6

3 6



Containing the whole of the
text with some illustrations.

In cloth

binding, gilt

edges,

smaller

type.

3 6

3 G

2 vols., 2s.
each.



















Coloured Board?

2 vols., Is. each.

2 vols., Is. each.
2 vols., Is. each.













2 vols. Is. each.











Celebrated Travels and Travellers. 3 vols. Demy 8 vo, 600 pp., upwards of 100
full-page illustrations, 12*. 6d. ; gilt edges, 14*. each :—

(1) The Exploration or the Would.

(2) The Great Navigators op the Eighteenth Century.

(3) The Great Explores op the Nineteenth Centxjbt.

JJ/ALLER rev. C. H.) The Names on the Gates of Pearl,
*" and other Studies. By the Rev. C. H. Waller, M.A. Second
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

- A Grammar and Analytical Vocabulary of the Words in

the Greek Testament. Compiled from Bride's Concordance. For
the use of Divinity Students and Greek Testament Classes. By the
Rev. C. H. Waller, M.A. Part 'L, The Grammar. Small post 8vo,
cloth, 2s. 6d. Part II. The Vocabulary, 2s. 6d.

■ Adoption and the Covenant. Some Thoughts on

Confirmation. Super-royal imo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Warner (C. D.) My Summer in a Garden. Rose Library, is.

Back-log Studies. Boards, i*. 6d. ; cloth, 2s.

Ln the Wilderness. Rose Library, is.

Mummies and Moslems. 8vo, cloth, 125.

Weaving. See " History and Principles."

Wills, A Pew Hints o?i Proving, without Professional Assistance.
By a Probate Court Official. 5th Edition, revised with Forms
of Wills, Residuary Accounts, &c. Fcap. 8vo, cloth limp, is.

With Axe and Rife on the Western Prairies. By W. H. G.
Kingston. With numerous Illustrations, square crown 8vo, cloth
extra, gilt edges, "js. 6d. ; plainer binding, $s.

Wolsey (C. D., LL.D.) Introduction to the Study of International
Law ; designed as an Aid in Teaching and in Historical
Studies. 5th Edition, demy 8vo, i8j\

Words of Wellington: Maxims and Opinions, Sentences and
Reflections of the Great Duke, gathered from his Despatches, Letters,
and Speeches (Bayard Series). 2s. 6d.

Wreck of the Grosvenor. By W. Clark Russell, Author of
"John Holdsworth, Chief Mate," " A Sailor's S wee' heart," &c. 6s.
Third and Cheaper Edition.

fLoxitionl

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston,

CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET, E.C.

gilbert and livingston, printers,
st. John's square.

OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS

8Z3

J

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/jameswoodfordcar02soll

CARPENTER AND CHARTIST.

3Y

HENRY SOLLY,

AUTHOR OF " WOEKIXa MENS' CLUBS AND INSTITUTES," " THE

\r % shepherd's dream," "gonzaga: a tale of florence,"

V* % etc.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

Pontoon :
SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston,

CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET.

1881.
\^All rights reserved']

GILBERT AND Livingston, PRINTERS,

ST, JOHN'S SQUARE.

JAMES Wooded,

CARPENTER AND CHARTIST.

CHAPTER I.

Maggie Thatcher didn't see much of lier
lover for some days after this occurrence,
as might be expected, and Kitty Barber
met him, as usual, more than was at all
desirable. Maggie tried to carry off her
own unhappiness with a high hand, but
with all her wisdom and strength and self-sufficiency,
she was a true woman ; and it
was intensely painful to her to see how she
had repelled this strange, impulsive, noble-hearted
young fellow, who, whatever his
faults were, had certainly made her, now
and then, happier than anybody else had
ever done, or, as she believed, ever could ;
but at length one day, poor thing, she
A 3

heard from a kind, officious neighbour a
great deal about Davie and Kitty being
seen together, which made her at first very
angry and then very sad ; so when he came
next evening she taxed him with " going
with that deceitful young minx," whereupon
he fired up and swore he didn't care
an old rag about Kitty, but loved lier
(Maggie) as much as ever ; and then went
on to swear he couldn't stand her temper,
for all that, and wouldn't, if they gave him
cool to do it. Hereupon, of course, they
broke off again, and he started up the lane,
while she went dashing about in a blind
fury to keep herself from dissolving in
tears. Of course, as Davie went up the
lane he met Miss Kitty, who generally
watched for him only too successfully.

Come now," said she, " let's sit down,
and just tell me why you are so vexed, for I
see you are — and I don't like my poor boy
should be put upon in this fashion by anybody.
I know who has been writing you."

Well, before very long, poor Maggie had
repented of quarrelling, and had come up

the lane to find her provoking lover, and
try to make it up with him once and for
all. Now it so happened, just before
Maggie appeared on the scene, that 
had been troubled, she said, by a
fly getting into one of her languishing eyes.
The pain appeared to be considerable,
and Davie had, of course, to do his
best to extract the offending substance.
This done, their hips were inevitably so
near together that Maggie came up justin
time to see a very hearty kissing
match going on between them. She had
tried more than once to turn a deaf ear to
all the gossip which she had heard, and
within the last ten minutes even had persuaded
herself that she was foolishly
jealous, and must come and ask Davie to
forgive her ; but now all the reports that
had reached her came flashing in upon her
like scorching flame. She turned right
round, and went back to the cottage without
saying a word. The poor girl must
have had a bad time of it that night ; and
when Davie came the next day, she looked

up at him, without leaving her work, full
in the face, and just said, —

'' Thank you, sir, for calling ; but I saw
you yesterday kissing in the lane — I did !
and now you had better go back to your
new love."

'' By Heaven ! then I will," exclaimed
her angry lover, 'you're a mean spy ! "

I hate you ! " she burst out in ungovernable
fury.

"Vixen ! " he cried, "you have driven
me from you, and this time for ever ! " and
away he went like a shot.

Not, however, this time to Kitty Barber's
dwelling ; he seems to have rushed about
the country half the night, then back to
his lodgings in town, just in time to receive
a letter from a lad, with the word " immediate
" written on it, from Mr. Lovett, as
Secretary to the Convention. He was in a
mad enough mood — angry with himself,
with Maggie, and even with Kitty for
being so pleasant and captivating ; and, in
short, there was very fierce strife in Davie
Roberts' heart that long, terrible night

and morning, between good and evil.
Weary and wretched, he tore open the
letter while the lad waited, found it was a
request from the Convention that if he was
not yet in work he would go down, with
two or three more of the London Chartists,
to attend a meeting in Devizes. The letter
said that the deputation would be headed by
Henry Vincent (this was in April, just before
he was locked up at Newport), who had
already risen greatly in the estimation of
the Chartist body generally, by his remarkable
eloquence and impetuous zeal in the
cause of the Charter. Roberts caught at
this proposal, and at once despatched the
lad with his ready acceptance.

The deputation was to start by coach atone
o'clock that day, so, hasting put his
head under the pump by way of refreshment,
and swallowed a hasty breakfast,
he came on to catch me in the breakfast
hour. I soon saw something was much
amiss, for he seemed to be in a regular
taking. When I spoke to him rather
soothingly, I little guessed what he had

been doing or what was coming, or I doubt
if I could have kept mj hands off him ;
however, the delay gave me time to feel
very sorry for him, whatever it was that
had gone wrong. So when he burst out
complaining of " that Maggie Thatcher's
temper, and that he couldn't put up with it
any longer, and had broken with her forever,"
I managed to say pretty quietly,
though bitterly enough, " Davie Roberts,
have you ever thought how much you may
have caused all this that you complain of, by
your own behaviour ? " For I must say I
had heard something of his goings on with
Kitty from the father and mother when I
had last been down at Broadfield. I treated
it at the time, for the most part, as idle
gossip, and thought perhaps it was no
business of mine ; but when he came talking
like that, I guessed how it was, and
that poor Maggie had been irritated at his
behaviour beyond all endurance. I had it
on my lips to say to him, " I am afraid,
after all, you are only a selfish humbug,
and have been treating that girl shamefully

; '* but I didn't say it out loud, only
turned away and made the observation to
the chimney-pots ; but I did say, when
he went on a little more about her temper,
"Would to God, Roberts, that you had left
the girl to me; I would have taken her
and loved her every day of my life, temper
and all." For I was half mad with pain,
and sore-hearted enough for two. Roberts
opened his eyes pretty wide at this, and
didn't quite know what to make of it. I
believe if that moment he could have seen
Maggie Thatcher standing before him,
and they two by themselves, he would have
gone down on his knees, taken her hand,
and begged her to forgive him for ever and
a day; but as that could not come about,
he only uttered some rough words about
her, said I might do as I liked, for she was
nothing more to him, told me of the invitation
to go down to Devizes, and left me
with scarce a shake of the hands, for we
neither of us felt, I guess, as if we were to
be friends any more.

After Davie was gone I had enough to

think of all the rest of the clay, and was
very thankful he came to me on a Saturday,
when work was soon over, for, try as
I would, I couldn't give my mind to it
properly. Davie's last words kept ringing
in my ears. I couldn't keep them out of
my head. In the afternoon, instead of
going to Lovett's headquarters, I walked
down to Broadfield. As I got out of town,
the trees and grass looked beautiful, the
birds were singing, and all sorts of strange,
wild, blessed fancies would come up in my
mind, queerly mingled with sorrow for
Davie and his sweetheart, for I knew what
trouble they must both be in. Father and
mother gave me the old dear welcome, and
by and by I heard all that mother knew
about the quarrel, and which indeed was
already gossip for half the village. I went
with them to church on the next morning,
but none of the Thatchers used to go ; and
in the afternoon, while father and mother
were dozing in their arm-chairs, and I was
thinking whether I should go and try to
see Maggie (being drawn in different ways

bj feelings that seemed like hungry dogs
fighting over a bone), who should I see at
the door but Maggie Thatcher timidly-looking
in, and with her finger on her lips.
I was up in an instant ; and, with my
heart all a-flame at the sight of her dear
face looking so sad and, as handsome as ever,
I went by her side down the lane without
either of us saying a word. When we got
to an old bench in a field, long called " The
Lover's Seat," and had sat down, she looked
so piteously in my face that my eyes grew
moist, and then, bursting into tears, she
said, as well as they would let her, —

Oh, Jem — you're an old friend — the
only one left — I must tell you all — I've
gone and angered Davie at last, past mending
this time — and he's gone off, and will
never come back — and — I hate him — he's
taken up with that viper whom I've been
kind to since she was a motherless chit —
and now he's gone, and I shall never see
him again. But I don't avant to, Jem. I
hate him." (She said this with frightful force
and bitterness.) " I don't want ever to see

him again — but I am so miserable, and I
can't live without some comfort in life —
and you've known me all my life, Jem, and
have always been kind to me — and you will
be kind to me still, won't you, and tell me
what to do?"

Then she began sobbing again, poor
thing. I couldn't stand that, and with all
my old love for her flaming up in my heart,
where it had been so long kept down, I
took her in my arms before I knew what I
was about, and kissed her again and again,
and wiped away the hot tears from her
eyes, and whispered to her, —

"Yes, my darling, I'll do anything to
make you happy ; I always loved you, my
own dear Maggie, and I will be a comfort
to you now in your trouble, and as long as
I live, please God " — for the only thought
in my heart then (there wasn't room for
another) was, that if Davie had been
neglecting her for another girl, and couldn't
put up with her temper, and had made her
hate him, I had now a right to take all
this great blessing she offered me, and it

seemed to me as if I could make lier very
happy, happier than any other living
soul.

Aye, that all seemed as clear as sunlight
for a few minutes ; but, bless you, I
didn't understand a woman's feelings in
such matters more than a monkey understands
milking a cow. For, though it
seemed a real comfort to her at first, the
way I answered her, — she soon disengaged
herself; and, taking my hand, and putting
me back a bit, as it were, and then wiping
her eyes, she said, "Tbank'ee, thanked,
dear old Jem — I knew you were a true
friend — but, now, don't'ee be making love
to me, that's a good fellow — you see, I've
been — Davie's darling, and if I never
see him again — you know, I seem to
belong to him still — but oh, donee go
away from me — I'm so unhappy, and I do
want a bit of kindness and comfort more
than I ever did in all my life."

I'm sure she didn't mean to be cruel;
she hadn't an idea what she was making
me suffer. It was all her humbleness as

VOL. II. B

wouldn't let her think, even, what she must
be making a fellow feel.

Still, one thing was plain amid all that
horrible confusion, and that was that I
might be of some use and comfort to her,
if I could give up all thoughts of being her
lover, and care for her only as mj sister.
So, whatever it might cost me, I said to
myself I would try, with God's help, to belike
a brother to the poor child. So after
a time I took her home to her mother, and
the smile with which she thanked me, as I
said good-bye, and the look of peace in
her face, were a better reward than any
I ever expected to have, and a great deal
better than I deserved.

After that I used to go and cheer her up
whenever I could. And somehow, after a
time, she was dearer to me than ever,
though I never, as I believe, for a moment,
passed the line she drew.

Once or twice I had a note from Davie,
by which I could see he was in a miserable
way, and I saw, too, that he had no idea
of coming back to be Kitty Barber's lover.

So mj heart softened towards him, and
though I was sure it was better for both
not to try and bring them together again
at present, I seemed to feel as if I were
guarding and comforting my darling for
that poor fellow, who was wandering about,
hundreds of miles away. My old love for
him seemed to come back as I crushed
down all thought of trying to oust him.
And though it was sometimes very hard
and bitter work, I don't know but what I
had more real peace and comfort during
that time than ever before, or, maybe,
since.

But I won't deny I couldn't help, now
and again, seeing that if Davie never did
come back to her, nor marry her, she
might like, years hence, to take me " for
better for worse," and that the more comfort
I could be to her now, the more
chance for me by-and-by. But, thank
God, I didn't huilcl on that thought — never
let it stay with me more than a minute or
so, just once and away, perhaps when T
needed a drop of water to cool my own
B 2

thirst; and bj His help, Who, I Iliad
come to learn by this time, never does
fail us (for I soon found I wasn't upto
it by myself), I was able to be a
true friend and Helper, though a very
poor one, to Maggie Thatcher, without
once making her wish she hadn't trusted
me.

Whatever mv chances, however, mio^ht
be either of helping Maggie and Davie to a
reconciliation at last, or of taking his place
in her affections, they were all upset by a
strange misfortune after Roberts had been
gone about four or five months. For
master sends for me one day to his ofl&ce,
and says that his friend the builder at
Eastleigh badly wanted me to go back
again — that all the old alarm about
Chartism had died away down there, and
if I hadn't a grudge against him for
sending me away when the 'squire ordered
him, he'd give me a friendly welcome back
again and good wages. As one might
expect, I was almost knocked over at the
thought; and Mr. Grapnell, seeing I didn't

look much like willing to go, began saying,
"J don't want you to leave, Woodford, of
course, but it will be a deal easier for me
to get a good staircase band in London,
tbougb not a steadier than you, than it
will be for my friend down in Somerset.
He's tried several, but the good workmen
are such fellows to drink, and the common
run can no more strike a curve and
find a centre, or put up a skylight, than
a pig. Come, let bygones be bygones,
my man, and pack up your tools and



told bim I didn't bear a bit of malice.

I always liked the gentleman, and I knew

bow the screw bad been put on bim. It

wasn't that — " Well, what was it then ?

Weren't the wages good enough ? " No,

no, not that. All the time the master was

speaking I was driven about in my mind

like a ship in a gale. Truth is, the strain

on me was sometimes getting almost too

much for me. The peace of mind I felt

for a time was fast slipping away. I loved

that girl as much, or more, than ever, now

that I saw, so often, how very lovable she
was, in spite of all her tantrums. Besides
she was softened and sweetened by her
great sorrow, and by knowing she had, in
some degree, brought it on herself by her
temper. So that I couldn't help thinking
of her day and night, whenever, indeed, I
wasn't at work. I used to count the days
and hours till I was to see her again;
while all the time I was with her I had to be
almost as cool as if I had been her grandfather.
But for all that, I knew I couldn't
bear not to be often near to help and
comfort her, and I felt sure my only
chance of ever calling her my wife, if she
and Davie didn't come together, was, as I
said, to keep near her now. Then again,
I couldn't bear leaving her without some
friend, so to say, at hand. So there I
stood twirling my cap, and looking as
stupid, I daresay, as an ass in the pound.
But what settled me at last to go was that
I knew things couldn't well go on much
longer, so far as I was concerned as they
were doing then. So I told the master I

wouldn't mind going down to Eastleigli
just to do the 'squire's grand staircase,
which, he said, needn't to be above four or
five weeks at the outside, and then I must
be back again in town. He promised that
I might come back when the job was done,
and I wished lira good-morning, lighter in
heart a bit than I went to him, for I was
sore spent with the strange fix I had got
into, and could hardly get about my work.
My shipmates sometimes chaffed me with
*' either being in love or half starved, they
weren't sure which;" and my mother was
getting downright unhappy about me. It
was the uncertainty about the whole affair
that came over me. If Davie had been
out-and-out married to Margaret Thatcher,
it would have been all plain sailing enough.
But I knew Davie Eoberts, and knew that
with all his goodness of heart, there was a
deal of the devil in him, and a sort of vindictiveness
that made it very hard for him
either to forgive or forget. So I guessed
it was most likely (unless something
wonderful turned up) that he would stay

in Wales and marry one of the pretty girls
that are so plentiful clown there (he was
half a Welshman himself), and never come
back to Broadfield. An impulsive, hot-tempered
fellow he was, and that would
have been just like him. But then there
was another thought that weighed a great
deal with me. If I went down to East-leigh
I might meet Mr. Fletcher again,
and hear him preach and pray. He had
done me good in a way that I felt was for
life, and not for this life only. I couldn't
exactly explain what he had done for me,
if I tried — and I don't want to try. But
I know in my own case, and I've seen it
with many others, that there's nothing in
the world a man feels so grateful for, if lie
gets it, as what is called spiritual good. I
know many would say, "That's allnonsense.
Most men value money, or drink, or success,
or their wife or sweetheart, a precious
deal more than any spiritual good the
parson may do them." No doubt, but
that is because he cloesnH really do the good
which I mean. It is rather uncommon, I

believe, to feel it has been clone for 'em.
All I say is, that chien we do feel it, Être
are more thankful for it than for any other
blessing.

CHAPTER II.

So I went down once again to Eastleigli,
after a sorrowful parting with Maggie (who
seemed to feel my going a deal more than
I thought she would), and was kindly
welcomed by Mr. Barnett, the builder, and
by some of my old mates who were still
there, but others seemed rather cool and
jealous, particularly the one who I thought
had done me an ill turn when the row about
Chartism took place. I remember his saying
the very first morning, as we went to
work, —

I say, Master Woodford, I hope you

aunt a-going to get us all into another

mess over this precious Charter of yours."

Don't fear," says I, pretty short.

"The Charter's not for the likes of you.

It's only for true-born Britons, who

Never, never, never, will be slaves ; '

You can be a slave as long as your patience
lasts, mj man, without help or hinder from
me."

Then my mates laughed ; and he pretended
to laugh, too, but he had a black
look for me in his heart, I know.

That didn't much matter to me, I thought;
but an enemy can always do mischief. However,
I soon forgot all about the man and
his black looks, for I had a tough job before
me which it took all my wits to tackle, and
a good many eyes looking at me. Glad
indeed I was to find Mr. Fletcher was still
at Eastleigh, and when work was done for
the day a very warm kindly welcome I had
from him. I missed Bembridge greatly,
and couldn't see my way clear to do anything
for the Charter, though I thought
more than ever now that Mr. Lovett was
suffering in Warwick goal. But, as I was
only down for a short time, and couldn't
keep the ball rolling there, I didn't think I

ought to stir them up, and perhaps get
them all sacked. So I was obliged to be
quiet, and only thought how soon I could
get back to the London Chartists, and to
Broadfield, and in the meantime how often
I could have a talk with Mr. Fletcher and
hear him preach.

One night, after I had been about three
weeks at Eastleigh, one of my mates and
I, instead of going straight home at night,
went with a couple of labourers in the
village to have a look at the allotment gardens
which the Squire had parcelled out
for all the men on his estate. And very
capital things they were, I could see that.
Then we all had a pint at the village inn,
and my companion and I had our bread
and cheese, for the labourers wanted to hear
all we could tell them about the Chartist
movement. So it was past nine before we
moved home. The moon was shining
brightly, but there was a dark bit of road
under the park palings where the trees
were thick. Just as we were in the darkest
part we came upon four more of the

labouring men who lived in that village,
and I knew one by his voice, having chatted
with him sometimes in coming backwards
and forwards.

It was so dark that I could only just
see that they appeared to have some
bags with them : and as we came up and
passed a word or two of " Well, Bill," and
Well, Jack," and so on, they said they
had been out late gardening on their allotment
ground, and were going home nov'
with some roots and vegetables for the
housewife's pot-boiling.

As we walked briskly along, however,
we suddenly heard a rustling in the
wood under the shadow of which we were
passing.

One of the men stopped, and says to me,

Here, Master Woodford, just hold my
scraping-iron and bag of roots for a minute,
will you, while I see what's up there ? "
and put what seemed a thick iron rod into
one of my hands and a bag into the other.

What's this ? " says I ; but just at the
moment, as he was moving off, not towards

the place where we had heard the noise,
but in another direction, four men jumped
out of the hedge over the pangs and
rushed at us.

Footpads, by Goes ! " said the man
who had given me the things to hold, and
then away he and his friends went like a
shot.

My companion, seeing them run, and
hearing what they said, and having nothing
in his hands to defend himself with, had cut
and run at the first alarm, and so there
was I left face to face with the highwaymen;
and as they sprang at me pretty
fiercely, I thought the best thing Alas to
lay about me with the iron tool in mj
hand, which I did so sharply that one of
the fellows was dashed to the ground, and
another had his arm broken, before the
other two had pinioned me and laid me on
my back. When, however, I expected to
have my watch taken, and pockets turned
inside-out (precious little would they have
found there, though !) fancy my surprise on
finding that they were the Squire's gamekeepers,

that my iron rod was a gnnbarrel,
unscrewed from the stock, that the bag of
roots was a bag of pheasants lying at my
feet, and that I had disabled one keeper
and half killed another. Then it flashed
on me how that the beggars had been out
poaching, and had played the scurvy trick
upon me, by which they got off, leaving
me to bear the brunt of the business. Of
course, I was taken to jail, kept there a
fortnight, till the doctor said the keeper's
life was out of cano-er, then was brought
before the bench. It wasn't the first time
I had been before the magistrates, but till
that day only as a spectator. To stand in
the dock with irons on my wrists was a
new feeling, and the more unpleasant
because I knew I had been doing " grievous
bodily harm," as the indictment (or whatever
they called it) ran, to two fellow-men engaged
in doing their duty, I suppose, (queer
duty !) according to law, game law, i. e.,
and accursed law, too, I think. But, then
the knowledge that I had been innocent of
anything but defending myself, as I thought,

against robbers, kept me up, and I spoke
out and told the bench all about it. Of
course, the Squire wasn't sitting there, but
he was in Court, and had been in the
magistrates' room. At first I thought
they were going to believe me, and the
testimony to character given by my employer
and Mr. Fletcher, and especially the
evidence of my shipmate who had runaway,
evidently made a great impression
on them.

But the Squire's counsel (for he had
sent for one in a hurry all the way from
Bristol) pressed the case against me very
hard. He said the Squire had suffered
very much. " from these scoundrel
poachers," and an example must be made
of them. Then he was just arguing that
my shipmate had no doubt been poaching
with me, for the gamekeepers said they
saw a man with me resembling my mate
whom they couldn't catch, when a note
was put in his hand, the reading of which
made him put on a horrified look and
exclaim, " Good gracious ! where are we !"

Then he requested that Mr. Fletcher might
be again put in the witness-box.

Sir," said he, '' I think you know-something
about a certain set of dangerous
characters in Eastleigh known as Chartists
? "

Mr. Fletcher winced.

I was sorry for him, but he spoke straight
out like a man.

I do, and thoroughly respect several
of them ; I do not consider them as dangerous."
(Sensation in court and on the
bench.)

'' Humph ! " and the barrister looked at
the bench, and knew that all the value of
Mr. Fletcher's testimony to my character
was gone; and that Mr. Fletcher's character
was gone too.

I think you have attended their meetings
? "

Sometimes."

'' Is not the prisoner a leading member
of their Society ?"

I don't know that they have any society
in Eastleigh now."

VOL. II.

Counsel : *' Sir, I beg you will not prevaricate.
Is the prisoner Woodford an
out-and-out Chartist, or is lie not ? "

I am not here, sir, to be insulted by

you."

One of the Magistrates, sternly : " You
had better answer the question."

I am quite ready, your worship, to
answer questions, but not to be bullied.
James Woodford I believe to be a thoroughgoing,
moral-force Chartist." sensation
again.)

My employer was next re-called.

Squire's Counsel (triumphantly) : " I
believe the prisoner was discharged from
your employment about a year ago for
taking an active part in the Chartist agitation
down here ? "

If I was sorry for Mr. Fletcher, I was
ten times more so for my master. His
state was pitiable ; but he had to answer
and gasped out,

'eyes, sir — but — "

Oh, never mind the buts, my goodman
we only want to know the fact.

You may step down now. Gentlemen, I
think I need not trouble sou any more."

Not the least occasion, Mr. ,"

replied the Chairman.

The magistrates' two heads nodded to
each other.

Committed for trial. Bail refused,
because of the still dangerous condition of
one of the gamekeepers."

And I was forthwith locked up. In the
silence and darkness of my cell I had time
enough to bless the sneaking fellow who
told the butler, who told the Squire, who
told the barrister that I had been discharged
a year ago for Chartism.

Of course, I had written off to my father
when I was first taken to prison, and Mr.
Fletcher took a world of pains, and I fear
spent a deal of money to help me. My
dear old dad pinched himself and mother
sadly to send off all they could spare, and
a barrister from Bristol was also engaged
for as well as against me. He was a clever
young chap, and made out a pretty strong
case, but he didn't like or understand the
c 2

Chartist side of the matter. However, it
was not much any of them could do, and
very little use their doing anything at all.
The evidence in the depositions read
at the Assizes was too strongly against
me, though what my master and Mr.
Fletcher (who explained nobly the difference
between the physical and moral-force
Chartists) and my shop-companion said at
the trial, and the way they said it, evidently
made a good deal of impression both on
the Judge, and I think on some of the
jury. My employer had plucked up courage
and came forward like a man to give me a
good character, for he wanted to have me
back at my work, and wished to clear his
own character, besides having a kindly
feeling towards me, and, I think, fully believing
the story I told. However, the end.
of it was that I got sentenced to two years'
imprisonment with hard labour ; and was
marched off to prison with that sort of
feelings which only a man who has been
unjustly condemned to prison Hfe can
understand.

It was about the very dreariest day I
lead ever spent in my life, when, after a
long trial in a hot, stifling room, where
scores of people were staring at me as if I
were a wild beast, while my witnesses were
being badgered and brow-beaten by the
Squire's Counsel, I was sent off in the
prison van with a lot more poor wretches,
some of whose faces were enough to turn
you sick. I knew I was going to be
deprived unjustly of my liberty and be
condemned to silence and the torturing
treadmill or oakum-picking for two dismal
years, scarcely ever seeing any of my
friends, and then only in the presence of a
turnkey, father and mother fretting their
hearts out, and, worst of all, seeing nothing
more of poor Maggie, and I knew how she
would fret at losing brother as well as
lover. My heart seemed to sink in me like
lead, as I sat down on my pallet in
the dark, when the key of my cell was
turned.

Next, day, however, and for many a day
after, I found there were worse things to

be borne in that infernal hole than my own
thoughts and privations and sentimental
regrets. The companionship of regular
ingrained ruffians, their malicious delight
in teazino^ and hurting me and others when
they got a sly chance, merely to revenge
themselves, I suppose, for what society was
inflicting on them, their intolerably disgusting
talk when we were by ourselves at
night (a frightful abuse that of herding
prisoners together, now mostly remedied),
and then the scarcely less terrible loneliness
during twelve hours of the evening
and night when I was under "the
separate system," with the dreadful torture
of the treadmill till I was too ill to go on
it. All these miseries laid a weight on me,
body and soul, which for years I could not
bear even to remember. The visits of the
Chaplain were the only comfort I had during
all these dreary months, and though he
seemed rather case-hardened by his work,
and was often stupidly stuck-up and conventional,
yet I saw he was a good and
sincere man, and he seemed to believe a

good deal of my story, and was really kind
and lielpftil to me.

I can't say low many months exactly
lead gone over in this way. when one morning
the governor came along the corridor
and stopped the turnkey as I was being
taken out after breakfast to the oakum-picking.


Here. Woodwards' said he, "'' the Secretary
of State has sent you a pardon fi^om
her most gracious Majesty, and I daresay
you don't want to give tis your company
any longer*'

Good heavens ! what a moment it was.
My knees trembled, and I could hardly
speak. But I pretty soon found myself
outside, and my dear old father and Mr.
Fletcher waiting; for me in the loose.
Then I found that, fortunately for me at
last, the fellow who had got me into this
misery and shame had been apprehended
some time after for another aggravated case
of poaching and attempt to murder, and
sent to the county earl where I was confined;
but, though a wild and desperate

fellow, there was good in the man at bottom,
and, as often happens, a sense of justice
and fair play. So when tie found lie was
in for either hanging or transportation, he
made a clean breast of it, and told the
chaplain what were the facts of the case
with regard to unfortunate me. The
chaplain, who was already inclined to
believe me innocent, laid his representation
before the governor, and they sent it to the
judge who had tried my case, and, as it
squared with his own convictions in the
trial, he soon got a pardon for me from the
Home OflBce.

One of the first things I heard about, on
comines out of o'aol, was the rising; in Wales
under Frost, Williams, and Jones ; and the
next was that Davie Roberts had been in
it. When I heard the whole story, it
answered the question I was burning to
ask father, whether Davie had come back
to Broadfield, and made it up again with
Maggie Thatcher.

Down to Devizes it seems the Chartist
Deputation had gone in April, 1839; got

there late at nio-ht, and next morning' were
welcomed by a tolerably large gathering of
their Wiltshire fellow-Chartists, that is to
say, as many of them as entered to show
their colours. For the Londoners found it
was true, as they had been told at the
Convention, that a reaction had set in in
that part of the country, and they went
down to trv and turn the tide again in
favour of the good cause. When, however,
the time for the open-air public meeting
was drawing on, it became pretty evident
that the tide was not going to turn just
then, for the upper-class folks set a queer
sort of example to the Wiltshire workingmen
as well as to Chartists in all parts of
the kingdom bv setting on a mob of am-culture
labourers to charge the Chartists,
upset their platform, and disperse the
meeting. Vincent and the rest of them,
however, were not disposed to give in
altogether on the non-resistant principle,
so they stood up to fight like trueborn
Britons. Davie's blood was up, and he was
desperate with heartache into the bargain ;

SO he charged the peace-breakers with a
will, and many of them were sent flying.
But numbers were against the defenders
of the Charter. Davie got his head cut
open with a brick-bat, and was carried off
insensible ; several of the other Chartists
were very roughly handled, and there was
an end of the mission to Devizes. No
doubt the well-to-do classes of the neighbourhood
— magistrates included — were
highly pleased at this result, and doubtless
thought the precept, '' thou shalt not do
evil that good may come of it," might very
properly be relaxed for once in their favour.
Instructions came down to Vincent to go
into Monmouthshire, where a very formidable
movement was being organized under
Mr. Frost, who, as I said before, had been
a magistrate for the county, but had been
most unfairly dismissed by Lord John
Russell for attending the Chartist Convention
and two Chartist meetings in London.
The gallant miners and ironworks among
the Welsh hills had been thoroughly roused
by the eloquence of Henry Vincent and

other of our emissaries ; but they had
somewhat gone ahead of their leaders sofar
as those belonged to the moral-force
party. They were all of them, in fact, in
that part of the country taking a leaf out
of Feargus O'Connor's book, and had quite
made up their minds that soft words — or
hard either for that matter — would butter
no Chartist parsnips, and that pikes and
fire-arms alone could carry the day. There
had consequently been a great deal of arming
among them ; and when Vincent's
fiery words fell on their ears, on the occasion
of this visit which I am now describing,
it was a spark in a powder barrel. Davie
Roberts followed his eloquent leader to
Newport as soon as he was well enough to
travel, and got to that borough just in time
to witness the committal of his friend to
prison for giving vent to seditious language
at a meeting in the neighbourhood. This
was more than Roberts and the rest of the
Welshmen could stand. To increase their
indignation, came news of that sad business
at Birmingham, when one of the darkest

clays that ever dawned for English workmen,
and the Chartist movement witnessed
the imprisonment of that great and goodman,
my noble leader, William Lovett,
along with John Collins, a fine fellow also,
to Warwick gaol, for the heinous offence
of printing and posting a proclamation
in Birmingham denouncing the shameful
conduct of the Birmingham magistracy
and the London police for their brutal
attacks on an unarmed Birmingham
populace in the Bull-ring. At the same
time, three of those who had really
been engaged in the Birmingham riots
were sentenced to death. The Rev. Robert
Stephens, " Methodist minister and firebrand,"
whose attacks, however, had chiefly
been upon the new Poor Law, was sentenced
to eighteen months' imprisonment.
Another of our ablest leaders — a man of
considerable education — Dr. Macdonald,
had got twelve months ; while from thirty
to forty other Chartists were sentenced to
various terms of imprisonment. Smarting
under all these cruel blows, the Convention,

wliicli had been moved from London by-o'connor's
influence, dissolved itself on a
resolution which, however, was only carried
by the chairman's casting vote. Feargus
himself was at length arrested and held to
bail on a charge of sedition. He afterwards
got a year in York Castle; but the Government
seem to have spared him as long as
they could, feeling perhaps that he was the
best friend to the '*' powers that be " inconsequence
of the manner in which he
sowed division in the Chartist ranks, and
stirred them to sedition. For thus the
Government got satisfactory excuses for
having their leaders committed to prison.
Some of those who were thus shut up were
certainly no great loss either to the movement
or the nation ; but it was very different
in the case of others, especially the
removal of Lovett at such a time from the
head of affairs was a real national calamity,
for thus the way was left open for violent
and unscrupulous counsels to prevail,
leone of us, however, lacked motives in
abundance to take any desperate steps that

might present themselves ; and, for my
own part, I felt so mad at the idea of
Lovett's imprisonment, and the hardships
which we heard he suffered in gaol, and
which brought him nearly to death's door,
that I would have shouldered pike or pulled
trigger against the tyrannical murderers,
could it have afforded him any possible
help or satisfaction. This was just how it
was in Monmouthshire, also, where the
Chartists were enraged beyond all bounds
by the cruel way in which Vincent and
his fellow sufferers were treated.

CHAPTER III.

Arrangements had been made for a simultaneous
rising in the North as soon as
tidings should be transmitted to the
Chartists in that quarter of the insurrection
in Monmouthshire. Davie had been quite
in his element. Everything round him
suited well with the troubled state of his
own mind, and his vehement hatred of
oppression. He had been kept on by the
Convention lecturing and spouting (sometimes
earning a little at his trade), during
all those stormy months.

Happily, I suppose, for the general welfare,
and ultimate good, even of the
working classes at large, violent steps at
that time were resorted to in one locality
only — the one where Vincent and Davie

Roberts had been exerting their abilities as
agitators for the last six months among
the Welsh mal-contents. The storm was
gathering round the gaol, where Vincent
was confined, as a nucleus of agitation.
On Saturday evening, November 3rd,
1839, the Monmouthshire miners were
mustering from far and near, armed and
desperate. Mr. Frost, with his two
principal coadjutors — Messrs. Williams
and Jones — were in the midst of the
gathering, and never were leaders looked
up to with more devoted loyalty than were
those three men by their exasperated
fellow-countrymen.

The following night, as soon as darkness
began to fall, they marched their
followers — four or five thousand strong —
down from the hills on the town of Newport,
the only body of troops for the
defence of which consisted of thirty redcoats,
ensconced behind the shutters of a
room in the principal inn of the town,
under the command of a non-commissioned
officer and the Mayor of the Borough,

Mr. Thomas Phillips. Proud, indeed, felt
the insurgents, as the marched along in
serried columns, confident of a glorious
victory, and expecting that the Charter
would thus be carried at the point of their
pikes. Prouder, and more hopeful than
all, no doubt, was poor Davie himself; he
felt himself every inch a soldier, and when
the inn came in sight, he rushed on at the
head of his column, like a hero of the first
water. The thirty soldiers and the mayor
behind their shutters heard the tramp of
many feet, and knew that a very large
force must be approaching for the attack.
Had they allowed themselves to be assaulted
behind their defences, the consequences to
themselves would in all probability have
been most disastrous; but a victory for
the rioters would undoubtedly have been a
far greater calamity. Mr. Phillips (who
for his gallant conduct on this occasion
was afterwards knighted by the Queen
with special marks of honour at Windsor)
took the bold step of having the shutters
torn down in the face of the enraged

VOL. II. D

multitude outside. This was the signal
for a discharge from the fire-arras of the
Welsh rioters. The mayor was wounded
with several others, but in the next instant,
the soldiers fired volley after volley right
into the dense ranks opposed to them.
Two or three rounds, however, were sufficient.
The miners took to flight, in spite of
the strenuous exertions of Frost, Roberts,
poor Shell, and the braver spirits among
them. Thereupon, the red-coats, leaping
through the windows, charged with fixed
bayonets, and Frost was captured on the
spot. Williams and Jones were coming
up with their columns, and meeting the
flying masses, gave the signal for disbanding,
and such as were not captured
took to their heels in general riot and confusion.
Roberts escaped for a time. The
three leaders were very speedily intercepted,
and with the rest of the prisoners
committed to gaol for trial on a charge of
high treason. Seldom has there been
such a marked illustration of the inability
of armed mobs to contend against disciplined

troops. Here were 5000 armed
men put to headlong flight by thirty
soldiers.

The next morning, a haggard, bloodstained
man was knocking at the door, in
the dim twilight, of a poor cottage among
the hills, about five miles from Newport.
The inmates were still asleep, and he could
gain no hearing or entrance. He knocked
more vehemently — frantically indeed, forby
this time, he said, all his courage had
evaporated under the pain of his wounds,
and a sense of utter defeat. He might
well knock, for he heard, dashing up the
mountain path, a horse's hoofs, and he
knew only too well who was on his track.
Just as the alarmed cottagers within had
scrambled down to the door, and had taken
out the wooden bar to see what was the
matter, a mounted trooper, armed to the
teeth, swung himself from his horse, seized
Davie Roberts by the hands, had the handcuffs
over his wrists, set him on the horse
behind him, and was off again down the
mountain side before the Welsh cottage
D 2

mountaineers well knew wHat had happened.
They understood it, however, only too well,
soon after, as troops of wrathful miners,
furious with their enemies and themselves,
came slinking past in parties of thirty or
forty, on their way back to the homes from
which they were hourly expecting, for many
a day afterwards, to be ignominiously
dragged.

The day on which the news of the Newport
rising reached Broadfield (and it spread
all over the country like wildfire), my
father happened to meet Margaret Thatcher.
She was trying not to look anxious, but
she was all of a tremble, and father felt
uncommonly sorry for the young thing with
nobody to rest on.

Says she, "Mr. "Woodford, can ye tell
me if all this be true about the fighting
down there in Wales ? "

"I'm afeared it's a great deal too true,
my dear ; more's the pity ! "

And can ye tell me," — then she stopped,
and blushed as red as a peony, and she
could hardly speak — " You've always been

a friend to me, Mr. TToodford — most of all
since poor Jem was locked up — and I
haven't a friend in the world I can trust
but him and sou, and I don't mind asking
YOU, but can ye tell me, or can ye find
out for me, whether Davie Eoberts was
in it ? "

Father said she looked so sorrowful, he
quite longed to bring her home to his wife
for a little comfort. He could not tell her
then, but he found out by next day what
had happened to young Eoberts. So he
told her carefully, but she turned very
white, and then thanked him so sadly and
lovingly. He asked her to come and see
his wife, but she only shook her head and
pressed his hand very hard, and went back
home.

It seems she had an aunt who was pretty
well to do, having married a sort of under-bailiff,
and who was living, I think, near
Galleywood Common, in Essex. That good
woman was bustling about early in the
morning of the day after father had told
Maggie all about Eoberts, getting ready

for lier husband's breakfast (I believe she
had no children), when, hearing the latch
lifted, who should she see coming in, all
draggled and wet, but her niece from
Broadfield.

'' Ashy, Maggie ! " she exclaimed, " what
on earth brings you here at this time o'
day?"

Oh, aunt," said the girl, sinking on a
seat, '• I've walked thro' the night all the
way from Broadfield, and I am ready to
drop. Give me a bit to eat."

'' Walked ! all night ! from Broadfield,
through the rain — twenty miles ! Why,
my poor lass, what in the name of — but
here, take this, and this, and let's have the
wet shoes off you ; and here's your gown
and shawl wringing wet, too ; dear, dear.
Come, child, and let's put you to bed a
bit."

But though the motherly kindness of the
good woman was very sweet to the aching-heart
of the wanderer, nothing could give
her troubled spirit or body much rest till
she had unburdened her mind, and told her

aunt, 'mid many tears, all the story of lier
quarrel with Davie, and how he was now
wounded and in prison, and how she wanted
her aunt to lend her a few pounds, that she
might go to him and nurse him if they'd
let her, and help get some wise lawyer to
defend him.

The good aunt had been head over ears
in love herself, and she persuaded her burly
kind-hearted husband that the poor thing
must have the money. So after dinner
Maggie went back by coach to Stratford
(whence it was only three miles' walk to
Broadfield) much quicker than she came,
and with a good bit of the heavy burden
^Yit\l which she had walked to Galleywood
Common in darkness and rain, lifted off
her weary heart. But enough trouble remained,
and swiftly as the half-completed
rail and galloping horses bore her down
next day to Monmouthshire, pictures of
Davie, blood-stained, wan, parched with
fever, and perhaps dying of his wounds,
would force themselves on her mind, and
made the hours seem to creep by with 

Of

tolerable slowness. A few shillings had
secured for her mother and the young ones
needful attentions from a neighbour, so
that she felt free to leave them. But as she
neared Newport, a cold chilling fear crept
into her heart, as she thought, '' What if
Davie has not forgiven me as I have forgiven
him ? '' or, " What if it be unbecoming
of me to be forcing myself on him in
this way?"

But when once they got sight of each
other, there was no doubt about forgiveness,
or propriety, or anything else ; and as
she was clasped in the wounded man's arms
on his dingy truckle-bed, and their tears
mingled, there were other eyes moist, too,
and rough hands drawn across those eyes
to hide the weakness.

A special Commission came down to try
the rioters for high treason. To be found
guilty of that charge, of course, meant
sentence of death. When, after a long and
patient trial, Frost, Williams, and Jones
were committed, and left for execution,
Maggie was waiting near the gaol door, to

get a chance of speaking with Davie ; and
when the kind-hearted turnkey (himself a
"Welshman, and a bit moved to sympathy
by Maggie's handsome, sad, and pleading
face) got leave for her to be admitted, she
went with the feelings that it would be
almost their last meeting in this world.
Several of the Newport Chartists, hearing
that she was Davie Eoberts' sweetheart,
had shown her great kindness, but she
seemed insensible to everything except the
one absorbing question, " Will he live or
die ? " When alone, her remorse was sometimes
terrible, for she kept saying to herself
and the friend who gave her a lodging, '' If
I hadn't worried him with that temper of
mine, he wouldn't have taken up with that
Kitty Barber, and we shouldn't have
quarrelled, and he wouldn't have been down
here, fighting against the red-coats, and
getting shot, and like to be hung."

Oh, missis," she moaned, " my misery
is greater than I can bear."

Davie tried hard to comfort her. All the
rare generosity of his nature rose up at

the sight of lier grief, for lie knew well lie
had been much in fault, and lie vehemently
took all the blame of their estrangement
on himself. But it was too late for either
penitence or generosity to help the poor
souls now. Davie Roberts, supported by
a turnkey, had to answer to his name in
the dock, as his leaders had had to do before
him, and many others too, before and after
him who had been caught with arms in
their hands on that fatal Sunday in November,
1839. His youthful appearance, and
bright feverish eyes, with the deadly pallor
of his face and forehead on which his thick
brown curls lay tangled, excited considerable
sympathy among the spectators, and I
think even among the jury. But it was
proved by several witnesses that he had
been lecturing and addressing public meetings
all through South Wales and in other
places for several months past. This would
have told heavily against him, had any
really seditious language been also proved
to have been used by him. But no one
seemed able to quote treasonable or even

physical force exhortations frolics speeches,
and some witnesses deposed to hearing him
tell the people to be very careful not to
break the peace. Fortunately for him no
traitor was found to tell of the very violent
language he really had used in several
places shortly before the outbreak, when
he was maddened by accounts of the treatment
of Lovett, Vincent, and others in gaol,
and by the proceedings of the Convention
in London. Hence the balance of all this
evidence was rather in his favour. Maggie's
fee, swelled by a contribution from many
members of the Convention, paid to a
remarkably clever young spark from Bristol,
who saw it was an opportunity to make
himself known, was a much more efficient
ally, while the best chance of all was
actually the courage Davie himself had
shown in the fray. For being one of the
foremost in the onslaught he was one of
the first to fall by the soldiers' bullets, and
then had dragged himself aside and lay
trying to staunch his wound in the darkness
while the soldiers rushed down the

street after the flying mob. The prisoners
who were taken were almost all from among
those fugitives and two or three of the
wounded ; but when the street was clear
Davie was secretly carried into the cottage
near which he lay, and his wound bound upon
condition that he would be ofiP before daylight.
This promise the poor fellow faithfully
kept, and dragged himself to an old friend
among the hills, as we have already seen.
Hence his counsel urged with great energy
that no witness had even attempted to.
prove that Davie had been seen in the fight,
or with arms in his hands ; there was
nothing whatever against him except that
he had been found a long way from the
scene of action, wounded and exhausted,
at the door of, probably, some near relative.
Doubtless he was attracted like many
others by the unusual disturbances going
on to see what could be the cause it, and
unhappily, but surely with most innocent
indiscretion, had gone too near the fatal
spot and been hit by a stray shot, fired it
might be by the rioters themselves. Then,

conscious how much appearances would be
against him, had fled with the flying
crowd. Was this evidence on which to
convict a man of high treason, and take
away an innocent citizen's life ! Surely
the halter and the axe would have victims
enough to o^lut their fury without sacrificing
more of Eno-hsh lives on such
miserably insufficient evidence as had just
been laid before the jury. Let the gentlemen
of the jury think of the mothers, and
wives, and innocent children, whose whole
future welfare in this world, perhaps in tl^e
next, was dependent on the verdict which,
as free-born Britons and as men, they were
this day solemnly called on to deliver."

A buzz of sympathy and applause ran
round the court when he finished; and
many an eye was turned in loving pity not
on Roberts only, but also on the young
girl who, scarcely able to breathe in the
agony of suspense, stood near the dock,
gazing alternately on the prisoner and the
jury, sometimes with an imperious mien as
if commanding that her lover should be

instantly released, sometimes with a look
of passionate supplication like a captive
princess in disguise. A momentary silence
followed. Then the prisoner's counsel
stated that he should call no witnesses because
there was no evidence to rebut — not
enough to convict a man of stealing a
pocket-handkerchief, much less to send him
to the gallows. Then came the summing
up by the judge. Even poor Maggie, who
could not keep her attention to anything
that was said for more than a minute at a
time, could see that it leaned to mercy.
The government would only be too glad,
as the judge well knew, of any reasonable
excuse for avoiding further bloodshed,
and he did not conceal the fact that there
was a great lack of sufficient evidence
against the prisoner. Then the jury
retired. A time of dread and almost
intolerable suspense followed, during which
there was a strange and unwonted quiet in
the court. Every soul seemed longing to
set the quasi-felon free.

At length the jury re-entered their box.

Guilty or not guilty ? "

Not guilty, my lord."

Maggie Thatcher clasped her hands together,
and bursting into tears, sobbed
out, " Thank God ! Thank God ! " while
Davie made an instinctive rush towards her
against the bars of his cage. Then the
judge rose, the usual formalities were
passed through, the excited crowd rapidly
left the court, and many gathered round
outside the door to congratulate the liberated
prisoner, and to press small tokens
of their sympathy and gladness on him
and his interesting " young woman," 'just
to help them home again, you know, and
to get ready for the wedding."

Poor Maggie, like Davie, was sore
puzzled between her pride and her necessities
how to receive all this kindness, but
she remembered her aunt, and knowing
that most of her borrowed money was
gone, she, amid many smiles and tears,
accepted the generosity showered on her,
and tried in vain to speak her thanks ;
while the people round felt that the sight

of lier beautiful blushing face, and the
trustful gladness with which she took her
lover's arm and walked away, were quite
enough reward for their donations.

But there was bitter sorrow among the
Chartists for many a day. And not
among them only. For years most true
Chartists, whether they approved or condemned
the Newport rising, mourned for
the fate of men whom they looked on as
genuine martyrs for English liberty; and
resolutions or petitions for the pardon of
Frost, Williams, and Jones," began or
concluded nearly every Chartist meeting
for years after their transportation.

Soon after Davie and Maggie came back
to Broadfield, I came out of gaol, and also
arrived in the village. Then, of course, I
heard the whole story, both of the part
Davie had taken in the Newport riots, and
of his recent return with Maggie. So I
quickly hunted him up, and under the
liofht of the stars we talked it all out, and
I finished up by saying, " Now my dear
old fellow, as soon as you can get work

again, you and she must be spliced at
once." I would take no refusal, for I had
had time enough to think it over and over
while I was in gaol, and I knew by this
time that their hearts were indeed one, so
that they ought to run no more risks of
those miserable and ridiculous misunderstandings.
I won't say that my heart
wasn't a little heavy and sore, but I suppose
I shan't forget to my dying day the
happiness I felt when poor Davie took my
hand, squeezing it with all his might, and
saying, " God bless you, Jem ! for all you
have done for my Maggie and myself, and
above all for that you didn't make love to
her, and try to oust me, but just took care
of her as a brother should ; oh ! she's told
me all about it. God bless you, old friend,
and may your turn for such a blessed
union as this come at last ! "

I went to my old employers' next day and
told them all my story, and was precious
glad to see how thoroughly they believed
me, and how glad they seemed to be at the
mystery being cleared up, and at the

VOL. II. E

Government pardon (pardon indeed) !
opening my prison-doors. They said they
should have work for me on the following
Monday, and I was well pleased, I can tell
you, to find Kelso once more back in his
old post ; he and I had some famous walks
together before my work began again. The
first expedition was to our " house of call'*
to inquire if anything could be got for
Davie. At first all seemed blank, but after
a little time a job was found for him that
promised to be permanent, if he would
take the trouble to learn a few things that
he wasn't properly up to then. He was
glad enough to set to work with a will. I
lent him my books, and gave him as much
time as I could. The banns were put up
in Broadfield Church the following Sunday,
and in a month's time they were married.
Happy indeed they were in their little
lodgings in Camden Town, during not
only those early days, but for a long time
after, he sticking to his work like a brick
by day, and working with me at his drawings
and his geometry at night. Then

there was a delightful walk for them upto
Hampstead Heath, Primrose Hill, or
the Regent's Park, every Sunday, which
did them a world of good — Maggie especially,
for lie did miss the country lanes
and field footpaths of Broadfield. But the
Millennium hadn't come set.

On looking back on what I have written,
it seems to me I have said a good deal
about other folks' faults and not much of
my own. But though I have not read a
great deal of such histories, I fancy that
must be common enough. I remember
hearing once that we all carry two wallets,
one hanging before, and the other behind
us. We put our neighbour's faults in the
foremost, and our own in the other — which
means I suppose we can see their faults a
deal more plainly than our own. But it's
not altogether that, for, if we do see our
own ever so plainly, we think " It is an ill
bird that fouls its own nest ;" and why
should we tell tales of ourselves ? Why ?
Because our pride wants humbling, and if
we confess, perhaps there s more chance of
E 2

mending. Not always. We've Heard, I
think, of very candid folk who

Confess their faults and — never mend."

And then again, we can see better than
anybody else how much there is to be said
in excuse for our faults, what great allowance
should be made for us, &c., &c.,
though, if we could only do that for our
neighbours —

But what is the good of palavering in
this way ? I suppose it is because I don't
like saying that about this time I can see,
on looking back, I was getting very surly
and morose, as they call it. I seldom had
a kind word for anybody, unless may befor
Maofme : and I don't know as I ever
did anybody a good turn then if I could
help it. I felt regular soured with the
world altogether ; and in a way, I knew I
hated half the men I came across, especially
the Government, the physical force Chartists,
the Northern Star — and " Feargus "
above all and everybody. So there is a
bit of my confession ; and I don't see the

good of telling any more mischief about
myself, particularly as I think, though I
won't be sure, that that's the worst.

All these private troubles and joys, however,
of which I have been speaking, had
not lessened my interest in the great
movement for which noble-hearted Lovett
was now a martyr in "Warwick Gaol. And
when he was released (on the 25th July,
1840), I needn't say I was one of those
who had intended to go down with the
other London delegates to greet his entrance
intoBirmino^ham, as arrangements had been
made for a public procession, and a grand
festival to do him honour. "Unhappily, however,
his health had been so broken by the
cruel treatment he had received in prison,
that, declining this triumphal reception,
as well as a number of other invitations,
he went off to Cornwall, as he says in his
memoirs, to " try as a restorative the air
of his native place." We did, however,
manage to persuade him to come to a
public dinner given to himself and his
fellow-prisoner, Mr. Collins, at the White

Conduit House, in a large tent, on August
3rd, when there were a thousand of us
sitting down with them to dinner. Mr.
Oakley, M.P., was in the chair, and Tom
Buncombe, M.P., the other member for
Finsburj, and Dr. Bo wring, were present,
with many others. Richard Moore, a man
of sterling worth, and a great friend of
Lovett's, acted as secretary. This dinner
was a great suc-cess, and raised the spirits
of all the friends of the Charter, except
those who were intolerably jealous of any
honour shown to Lovett, which they always
fancied was so much disrespect to their
idol, O'Connor. Lovett and Collins had
printed and published a very valuable little
work called " Chartism," which was partly
written in gaol, and was very favourably
received ; so much so that a second edition
was brought out ; but this, in consequence
of the opposition made by the O'Connorites,
Lovett says, was only a loss. Lovett also
was shamefully treated by a certain publisher
and printer, as well as dunned by
other people, for claims which ought never

to have been made ; but, on the other hand,
*^ various working men's associations, the
Cabinet-makers' societies," and other
friends had all been exerting themselves indifferent
ways to support Lovett's wife
and daughter while he was in prison, to
enable him to go down to Cornwall, and to
start him in a small business when he
returned ; for it seemed clear his health
would not allow of his returning to work
at the cabinet-making trade; and he thought
that a small bookseller's shop, in Totten-ham
Court Road, might earn the family
bread. His wife, who was always a brave
and true helpmate to him, could manage
the shop for the most part, leaving him
free to devote himself to the great object
of his life — the enfranchisement of his
poorer fellow-countrymen and their elevation
in the social, mental, and moral scale.
He was soon therefore again endeavouring
form a Society on the plan set forth in
the pamphlet on Chartism ; and in compliance
with a requisition, he drew up an
admirable address, which was signed by

Collins, Hetlierington, Cleave, Rogers,
Moore, &c., among other leading men,
proposing the establishment of a Society
to be called the '' National Association of
the United Kingdom," for promoting the
political and social improvement of the
people. The whole of this address ought
to be read in Lovett's Memoirs (page 248),
by all persons interested not only in the
history of the political agitations of that
day, but also as a help and guide for the
improvement of the condition of the people
at the present time. The broad and high-toned
principles on which he desired to
work out his aims will be seen when it is
mentioned that a principal object was to
erect *' public halls or schools for the
people — such halls to be used in the middle
of the day as infant, preparatory, and high
schools, in which the children shall be
educated on the most improved plans the
Association can desire, embracing physical,
mental, and political instruction ; and used
of an evening by adults for public lectures,
on physical, moral, and political science.

for readings, discussions, musical entertainments,
dancing, and such other healthful
and rational recreations as may serve to
instruct and cheer the industrial classes
after toil, and prevent the formation of
vicious and intoxicating habits. Such halls
to have two play-grounds, and (where
practicable), a pleasure-garden attached to
each ; apartments for the teachers ; rooms
for hot and cold baths ; for a small museum ;
laboratory ; and general workshop, where
the members may be taught experiments
in science, as well as the first principles of
the most useful trades."

Here were the germs of many improvements
more recently carried into effect,
such aslrTorkmen's Clubs, Penny Readings,
and even Technical Education. Other
useful plans and suggestions followed, and
the address closed with the words : — '' We
remain your devoted servants, in the cause
of liberty and social happiness," — followed
by the names of those who signed it. All the
members of our Association welcomed the
reading of this noble scheme with immense

satisfaction, when Loyett read it to us
in draft one night ; and I was specially
glad to see how heartily Davie Roberts
applauded it.

The address, however, of course was
viewed by O'Connor and his friends as a
shameful conspiracy (or at all events they
thought proper to regard it as such) for
subverting his power and plans, and it was
denounced most bitterly in the Northern
Star, as a scheme for supplanting the
National Charter Association. All who
put their names to it were denounced as
'' traitors, humbugs, and miscreants," and
Lovett himself singled out for special abuse.
The consequence was, says Lovett, that
votes of censure and denunciations now
assailed us from all quarters of the kingdom
where O'Connor's tools and dupes
were found," and, as he (Lovett) says
again — "if their power had been in proportion
to their own vindictiveness," the
lives of our leaders would very likely have
been sacrificed. Indeed, a Mr. J. Watkins
preached and published what he called a

Sermon to show the justice of assassinating"
our friends. Hereupon we issued
another address, drawn up like the former
by Lovett, vindicating our conduct and
defending the plans proposed with regard
to the public halls for the people. The
second address said that " by means of
them our working class brethren might betaken
out of the contaminating; influences
of public-houses and beer shops — places
where many of their meetings are still
held, their passions are inflamed, their
reason drowned, their families pauperism,
and themselves socially degraded and politically
enslaved." Speaking of our objects,
the address went on to urge '' all who
would place freedom on an enduring basis
to adopt such a course of agitation in favour
of our Charter, as should unite in one bond
of brotherhood the wise and benevolent of
all classes, intent on cherishing and ]propagating
the noblest principles of freedom
among young and old, so that the most
substantial fruits might be gathered from
the political power we are now seeking to

obtain." The address further insisted on
the need of " seeing our brethren prepare
themselves to use that power (the franchise)
wisely when they shall have obtained it'*

It then declares that we are " opposed
to everything in the shape of a physical
and violent revolution," — and that '' sanguinary
warfare, calling up the passions in
the worst forms, must necessarily throw
back for centuries our intellectual and
moral progress " — that the " mere possession
of the franchise is only a means to a
just end," and that the great question is,
how shall all the resources of our country
be made to advance the intellectual and
social happiness of every individual ? — and
what benefit would be the franchise to those
who if they had power would sacrifice all
who differed from them ? " The address
concludes with describing the vast extent of
the social misery Which class legislation
has occasioned, and then calls for united
action " in order to investigate and remedy
our social evils, and to place the liberties of
our country on a sound and lasting foundation.

We sat listening to Lovett as lie
read this address by a bates wing gas-light,
with almost breathless interest, and as he
concluded, we burst into cheers repeated
over and over again, as our answer to the
shameful attacks made on him and his
scheme.

As I said before, however, my object is
not to give a history of the Chartist agitation,
or of the labours and sufferings of my
great-hearted friend; only to draw attention
to them, and to rouse the working men of
the present day to cherish the same ardent
public spirit and desire for the political
and social improvement of the people,
while they learn from the experience of
former days how to work out the same
objects by wise and judicious measures ;
above all, I most earnestly desire to help
my brother working men to avoid the
terrible evils which arise from jealousy
of the truly wise and good on the one
hand, and blind slavish idolatry of selfish,
needy, or grasping demagogues on the
other.

And so between working with head and
hand, the best part of another year passed
away.

Few things I regretted more during all this
time than mj complete severance from Mr.
Fletcher, who continued toiling on quietly,
modestly, but I am afraid rather sorrowfully
in the little town of East Leigh.
There he had found his work, and there he
believed it was his mission to labour. I
should gladly have gone back as soon as
the wedding was over, but I fancy Mr.
Barnett did not altogether wash me to return
to East Leigh so soon after I came out of
prison. He was evidently rather nervous
about what the squire (who was never
fully persuaded of my innocence,) might
say ; besides which, he had naturally been
obliged to supply my place with another
man. And though I must say I didn't
altogether wish to be so near that happy
little family party in the Camden Town
lodgings, I was very desirous of helping
Davie in his new zeal for '' technical education."
I wanted, also, quits as much, to

Stork with Lovett, and the rest of them,
in the new start which he was now making,
and of course all the more because of the
shameful attacks that were being made
against him. So I fagged away in London
at the bench in the daytime, and for the
National Association or Davie in the evening;
until one day 'Mv. Grapnell, june.,
called me once more into the office, and
said, " Well, AVoodford, it is the old story;
Mr. Barnett wants you to go down again
to East Leigh for a few months, and if you
are willing to go, and let bygones be bygones,
I suppose I must spare you ; but
take care you don't get mixed up with the
poachers again ! "

Well, sir," said I, " I don't much like
their company, and I don't like going
where there is a large crop of them ; but
still I suppose it will be all safe now, and
I think I have learnt a lesson."

I was the more willing to go because
Bembridge told me that the Chartist cause
had been reviving at East Leigh, and that
I mio'ht be of a good deal of use he thought

in helping to guide it on the lines of the
moral and intellectual improvement of the
people, and to get a branch of the National
Association established there. So taking
leave of father and mother, and mj very
dear friends in Camden Town, who seemed
as happy as ever, and as if their happiness
never could be less, I once more returned
to the little Somersetshire hot-bed of
Chartism, as it had now become.

CHAPTER lY.

Of course I went and looked up the
minister as soon as I lead half an hour to
spare. He was sitting over his books and
writing-desk, and it looked all the same as
it used to do, just as if I had only left
him the night before ; but when he got upto
shake hands with me, though there was
the old friendly smile on his face, I was
shocked to see what a change had come
over him. I should hardly have known
him if I had met him in the street — he
looked so pale and worn — with his cheeks
all sunk, and his eyes glowing like lamps.
When he spoke, too, it was in such a hollow,
weary tone, it made me quite unhappy.

'why, sir," says I, "you don't look the
same man; I am afraid you have been

VOL. II. F

fretting down in this dull little hole. How
is the chapel work going on ? "

'' Oh, pretty well, Jem," said he ; "Bern-bridge's
parson left here some months ago
for a better ' sphere ' (which is Latin, yon
know, for better 'salarj^'). Then they
asked me to take his place, which I gladly
did ; but I can't say it is very encouraging,
and it is quite true I do feel uncommonly
dull and solitary here sometimes."

And then I could not help saying, '' Well,
sir, but is not that young lady coming down
yet to take care of you ? "

But he only shook his head, and turning
round to the window, said, " ]^o, no, my
man, that is all over; but I am much
obliged for your kind sympathy. I know
you would make it all straight if you could,
but I have just gone and done for myself
as far as this world is concerned."

'' But that is a big shame," said I, firing
np ; " for with your leave, I make bold to
say that there never was a man that better
deserved the support and encouragement
both of rich and poor, fair lady, or fine

gentleman, aye, or working man, than
sou."

Much obliged to you, Woodford," he
answered, '' for your good opinion ; but you
ree it is not shared by the folks who could do
the most to help me to be a useful member
of society. And if I have to put up with a
little hard usao^e for the sake of the workingmen,
it is no more than the best of your
class have had to do, and have borne their
troubles bravely without any whining."

That's true," I said, thinking of the
many men who had been or were still in
prison for speaking the truth about the
tyrannical government, and class legislation
under which we were all living then. '' So
I wouldn't mind if it didn't seem to betaking
your health away from you, for I am
sure you must be doing a good deal of
good here, sir."

'' Oh, never mind my health ; I shall
pull through. And now I want to askyoLi
what they say in London about this conference
that Sturge and Miall have summoned
to meet in Birmingham next month."
P 2

Well," I replied, " the man whom, as
you know, I trust above all others, and who
deserves that everybody should trust him —
William Lovett — he says it is a fine thing,
and has good hopes of it ; though whether
it really turns out of any use or not depends
upon the way the O'Connor party choose
to look at it. If they come down in force,
I don't think we or anybody else shall be
much the better for it."

Do you think they will try to upset it,
Woodford ? " he asked.

No, not exactly that, sir ; but it is
very likely that, as Feargus did not start it,
and can't play first fiddle, he will tell his
men to keep it at arm's length, ' pooh-pooh
' the whole affair, and try to make it
rather ridiculous in the eyes of the working
classes."

*' But at all events don't you think it
is a fine attempt to make reconciliation
between the middle and working classes,
and to get justice for all ? "

"Indeed, I do, Mr. Fletcher; I shall
never forget when you first showed me

that new paper called the ' Nonconformist,'
in which the editor, Edward Miall, was
cracking up the cause of what he called
Complete Suffrage,' but which in reahty,as
you know, was very like what we meant by
Universal Suffrage. Ever since that I
have watched him and his work with a
great deal of respect and hope too, and
now that he has got Joseph Sturge and
Sharman Crawford to join with him,
I think real good may be done. It is
a grand thing to have middle-class men,
and an M.P., once more standing up
for us ; it does so much to smooth away
class prejudice, and get rid of that bitter
fear and hatred of Chartists and Chartism
that has done such a deal of harm."

'^ I suppose," put in Mr. Fletcher, " it is
on that account Miall and Sturge proposed
this new name."

I should think so," said I. " But most
of those men who first came out for the
Charter, when "William Lovett brought it
out, seem to have crept back into their
holes again. We don't hear much of Roebuck,

or Daniel O'Connell, or even Joseph
Hume, being willing to face the storm in
favour of us poor worries, since that confounded
ISTewport riot. Shall you go to
the conference, sir ? "

I haven't been asked," said he, smiling ;
'' but I'd go there or anywhere else to say
a word for justice being done to fellows
like you."

•'' Oh, if that is all," said I, '' I think we
shall all gladly send you as our delegate, if
you can get a friend to lodge you in Birmingham,
for we can't afford much for
travelling expenses. They have got the
Branch Society still formed here, though it
hasn't been doing much lately ; but I will
get them together, and have you appointed
in a trice."

Oh," says he, '' I can pay all travelling
expenses. Don't trouble about that."

Aye, but " travelling expenses " were
often a great difficulty in working many a
scheme among us working men.

This proposal was received Levy heartily
by our little knot of Chartists, who still

stood bj one another (tliougli they did not
dare to make themselves miicli known in
the neighbourhood) ; and Mr. Fletclier was
duly elected as our representative to the
Complete Suffrage Conference held in
Birmingham in April, 1842.

There was not a man absent of us when
he came back and told us what had been
done, and I shall never forget the eager
faces of our poor fellows, as we all sat
round the table, and filled up the back
forms and corners of our club-room at the
*' Red Dragon," or how they cheered him
when he first came in, and as he went on
with his discourse. It appeared that
William Lovett, having cordially promoted
the meeting, and Feargus, as I expected,
having attempted to pooh-pooh it, there
was a great majority of the right sort of
men, all of them earnest, downright Chartists,
who were pledged to the lips not to
give up one of the six points, but to make
every other concession possible to meet
the views of our middle-class friends.
Messrs. Miall, St urge, Sharman Crawford,

J. Humphrey Any (since made Serjeant
Parry, a true friend of the people), the
Eev. T. Spencer, of Linton Charter House
(near Bath), a Church of England clergyman,
but a first-rate man, and Mr. Fletcher,
were all equally conciliatory, and for three
days a discussion went on, taking each of
the six points in order. One after another
they were urged by Lovett and the other
Chartists, and one after another were being
conceded by the middle-class folk; but
among the latter was an eloquent, high-courage,
sturdy young Quaker from the
North, a large manufacturer, and a very
influential man already in his own district.
The news of his coming made a great
sensation among us," said Mr. Fletcher,
and considerably encouraged us till we
found that though giving us very valuable
sympathy and support on many points, he
was making a very dogged opposition to
two or three articles of the Charter, which
exasperated its supporters and made us all
tremble a little for the fate of the conference.
At last his objections to this and

that were all removed, except to the last
point, wliicli was Annual Parliaments. But
the Chartists made a touching appeal tous
and pressed this ' point ' also, on the
ground that they were already regarded in
their respective localities with no little suspicion
for having come to a middle-class
conference on the subject ; and it was
stated that if they fulfilled the gloomy
expectations of their friends at home, and
gave up any one of the six points, they
should be regarded as traitors to the cause,
and on their return home would find they
had lost all influence, and would be ' sent
to Coventry ' into the bargain."

They [i. e. the Chartist Delegates] had
come to the conference in a spirit of faith
and trust, in spite of no end of opposition,
and even obloquy, among their constituents
and the rest of the Chartists. They had
come in fact, not exactly with their lives,
but with their reputation — their whole
social and political influence — at stake in
the localities where they lived ; all of them,
of course, to some extent leading men, and

all of them therefore with a position that
they would have been very loth to lose.

Greatly to my surprise, I need not
say," continued our brave parson, " I was
asked if I would move the adoption of this
Annual Parliament Clause on these grounds,
and though I didn't particularly like the
job, I felt the force of the men's arguments,
and pleaded for them to the best of
my power. The result was all the middle-class
opposition was withdrawn, the whole
of the six points were carried, and even the
eloquent young Quaker from Rochdale remained
our friend''

That young man's name was John
Bright, and it is pretty well known what
he has done since to earn the gratitude of
his countrymen.

Then," said Mr. Fletcher, continuing
his narrative, " we wound it up with a
magnificent meeting .in the Town Hall,
when Joseph Sturge, whose wisdom and
courtesy, and broad popular sympathy, had
so helped to secure the unanimity and success
of the conference, presided over an

audience wliicli filled every nook and
corner of that spacious building. He spoke
well as chairman, and was cheered to the
echo. William Lovett, Henry Vincent,
Bronterre O'Brien, Lower, and others, all
made admirable and stirring appeals, and I
should think the Town Hall hadn't often
rung with such enthusiastic cheers as
answered them. Fancy my alarm when I
found myself urged to second one of the
resolutions, Mr. Thomas Spencer having
gone home, and we being the only two
clergymen who had attended the conference;
but I can tell you, gentlemen," said
Mr. Fletcher, '' it was just the hardest task
I had ever tried in my life, to stand up
before such a meeting as that, and when I
began I didn't know whether I was in the
body or out of it. However, the audience
were very kind and demonstrative, and
clapped most generously, so that I soon
recovered my senses, and only remember
the infinite sense of relief with which I
found my last words were being heartily
cheered as I dropped into my seat."

Then, sir," said one of our men as the
parson concluded amid our cheers, 'you
think the conference will help us to get the
People's Charter?"

'eyes, I do," replied Mr. Fletclier,
more than anything else which, has happened
since you started it ; because it will
ha 70 lifted it up on to an entirely new
platform, christened the movement with a
new name," (that, by the bye, was the only
thing we did not like, and we told him so
afterwards. We did not want a new name,)
got it out of the old rut, and will have
made Members of Parliament look on it as
something more than another name for
violence and anarchy."

He then told us that it was decided to
call another conference towards the end of
the year, of a more largely representative
character if possible, when final steps
should be taken for putting the whole subject
before Parliament in their ensuing
session. " To the second conference," he
continued, " the hopes of most Chartists
will now be directed with very longing

eyes, and, as you know, great expectations
are entertained with, regard to the results.
So that, gentlemen, is the upshot of what
passed at our first conference. But I must
not omit one curious and interesting; thing
which happened to me. I was introduced
at the conference to a very fine fellow,
named Arthur O'Neill, a working man and
a delegate, and he told me all about his
Christian Chartist Society, which they had
formed after hearing of one in Scotland.
It must have seemed a very queer title that,
to all respectable middle-class Christians in
Birmingham I have no doubt, when he first
announced it, for I suppose their notion of
Chartist and Chartism would be the very
antipodes of Christianity. But I must say
it took my fancy amazingly. For you see,
friends, I had taken to Chartism just because
I thought Christianity told me I ought
(cheers) ; and when a very intelligent,
modest, good-looking young fellow came
up to me after one of the sittings of the
conference, told me his name was O'Neill,
and asked me if I would come and say a

few words some evening before I left to his
little society, I got interested pretty quickly,
and went on the Sunday afternoon (I was
engaged every night, and was preaching
for an old friend morning and evening on
the Sunday, so that was my only opportunity).
I prayed with them, and preached
to them, and did a lot of ' talkee-talkee '
with O'Neill and his committee besides.
It seems he was an out-and-out Chartist,
but he was also a firm believer in Christ
and Christianity, and so he thought the two
things might be united ; and finding some
Baptist or Methodist workmen of the same
mind with himself, they formed this Christian
Chartist Society. When it was first
launched, respectable folks looked at them
much as you would look at a mad dog.
But they worked quietly on, 'instant in
season and out of season,' always abounding
in good works, and careful to give no
offence. If a neighbour or a neighbour's
child were ill, a ' Christian Chartist ' was
sure to be ready to run for the doctor or sit
up to nurse all the night long. If help

were wanted for a burial, half-a-dozen
Christian Chartists would volunteer to
carry the coffin. If a fight had to be
stopped or a quarrel prevented, there were
Christian Chartists ready to do it. Teniers
' Good Samaritan ' work in short was
needed, some of these good fellows were
always ready day or night to do it without
fee or reward. ' And so you see,' said
Arthur O'Xeill to me, ' all the prejudice
against us has been lived down, and we
stand so well now in tins town that we
have only to go to any of the wealthy,
benevolent men of Birmingham and tell
them we want a little money for this or
that, and we get it immediately.' Yes,
yes, my Chartist brothers," concluded Mr.
Fletcher, " Chartism is a fine thing, and
O'Neill is a fine fellow. And Christ and
Christianity are better still, in my opinion,
whatever that's worth. Without them, I
think, all our schemes and societies won't
do us much good ; but with them we may
go ahead and be sure of victory." Didn't we
give him a rousing cheer when he sat down !

I often wished to hear more of that
young man and his good work ; but unhappily
about a year later, and before he
could put it on a permanent basis, he was
laid hold of by some of the magistrates
who were off their heads with fright, — and,
for something in a speech he had made,
which they called sedition, was most unjustly
sentenced at the Stafford Assizes,
in the summer of 1842, to twelve months'
imprisonment in Stafford gaol. Mr.
Fletcher, I remember, read us a very interesting
but very short letter which he
had received from O'Neill while in gaol ;
but the young man never took much part
in the Chartist movement again . He found
a fine field for congenial work, however, in
becoming minister of a Baptist chapel in
Birmingham; and I've no doubt many of
his Christian Chartists joined his congregation,
and continued to carry on their useful
works, and to be good Christians and
staunch Chartists as well.

For myself I must say I liked this name,
Christian Chartist," immensely. I told

Mr. Fletcher lie "was as good a Christian
Chartist as any of them, and that he had
better start a Christian Chartist church at
once, not for East Leigh only, but all
England.

Thank you, Jem," said he, *' but the
Church of Christ is good enough for me.
It can do all we want — if only it would do
its duty — its political duty, among the
rest."

True enough, but then it don't, thought
I. Perhaps it will some day, yet.

^' Another curious thing happened," said
Mr. Fletcher, when talking afterwards with
Bembridgo and myself in London about the
conference, "as I was returning from Birmingham.
While waiting on the platform
for the train to Gloucester, I saw a young
Chartist delegate doing the same, who had
made oue or two speeches at the conference
that pleased me very much. So we began
talking, and I suppose we should have
travelled in the same carriage, but he intimated
that he had a companion, and I saw
nothing more of him till we got to Gloucester.

II. G

ter and was preparing to mount the coach
to Bristol [there was no line then between
that town and Bristol]. Then he and his
friend got up with me at the back, and he
informed me that he had been arrested that
morning by the gentleman sitting opposite
us, under a warrant from the Bristol magistrates
for taking part in a so-called seditious
meeting some months before. He had kept
out of the way hitherto, but they guessed
he would be at the Birmingham conference,
and despatched an officer."

Poor beggar, he'll get twelve months,"
said one of my mates.

'' I only hope they will let him have books
then," replied Mr. Fletcher, "for he could
make stand use of them. I don't know
when I had been more pleased with a man's
conversation than I was with his. And
when I asked him where he got such capital
notions from, he said, ' Well, chiefly from
an American writer, a Dr. Channing's
works.' This made me wonder what the
writings were which had wrought so wholesomely
on that young Chartist workman."

'' I have all his works," said the chairman
of our Chartist Association. '' Bern-bridge
got them for me ; and I shall be
happy to lend them to you. But I should
think that what your companion had got
most good from, were one on ' Self-culture,'
and another on ' The Elevation
of the Labouring Classes." However, I
admire nearly everything the man wrote,
at least, that I have read. I've many a
time blessed the day when Bembridge was
cracking 'em up to us. The Doctor has a
good deal to answer for, also, for any twist
I may have got, as well as your Bristol
Chartist friend, towards good or evil. I
see too, that Henry Vincent, in a great
speech he made the other day at Bath,
referred to the-same writer."

On my word, it grows interesting,"
replied Mr. Fletcher, his eyes kindling up.
I must certainly read the man's notions.
I take your offer, with thanks. But what
a terrible Radical the Yankee Doctor must
be if his views breed up such thoroughpaced
Chartists ! "

'' And land them in Newport and Bristol
gaols," I added.

No, no ; Channing is no more of a
Radical or Chartist than the founder of
Christianity," said our chairman, "but no
less. He is no politician, i.e., not a party-politician
at all. But he seems to me to
be trying all he can to do what you are
doing every Sunday, Mr. Fletcher, — to
apply Christianity to our mental and moral
improvement as citizens and men, to raise
us and our political communities nearer to
God, — and if that's Radicalism or Chartism,
then the New Testament is pretty full of it.
But that's not what would land any fellow
now-a-days in a gaol, though it would have
done it a hundred years ago. Your Bristol
friend must have gone in for club law a tidy
little bit, I am afraid, before the magistrates
could be down upon him."

What, man ! " said I, rather crossly,
"have you forgotten Warwick gaol? I
should like to know what landed William
Lovett there, if it wasn't applying Christianity
to politics. But there are a good

many fine fellows now-a-dajs," I grumbled
out, thinking of Davie Roberts, and others
as good as he, " who laye lost all hope of
getting the improvement you speak of
except by club law. Worse luck for them,
and the nation."

After all this chatter, however, about the
Yankee parson's writings, I thought I would
read them as soon as the chance offered.
When I did read them, I didn't wonder at
any working man (or gentleman either for
that matter,) being the better all his life
for having read them ; and I'm going to be
grateful, too, all my life that I heard of
them, though I don't say I understood or
cared for everything I found in them.

But there was another gloomy shadow
had come over us at East Leigh before the
dark and terrible days of August, 1842.

Ingot long after Mr. Fletcher had returned
from that first Birmingham Conference, I
met him one day in the street, carrying a
carpet bag, as I was going home to my
dinner. There was something up, I could
see, that was very bad, but he hardly spoke

just shook lances, squeezing mine pretty
hard ; said lie was glad he had met me —
it was like ' a whifF of the briny ' to a
sick man," and he'd write as soon as he
could. Then he swung himself up outside
the coach that ran between East Leigh and
Taunton, and I looked after him, wondering.
He did write, after a few days, from the
fine old place where the young ladj^ lived
who he had once hoped would come and
keep his home at East Leigh. He had been
sent for, he said, to see her, but he feared
it was only to see her pass out of this
world to the fairer, happier world to
which, not to earth, she seemed properly
to belong."

What could a poor ignorant fellow like
myself say to him in presence of such a
sorrow ? I could only quote his own
words, which I had often treasured up as
they came from his pulpit right to the
hearts of myself and others ; and he told
me afterwards they were a help and strength
to him, when thus echoed back to him, —
as they had often been to me.

I was thinking very sorrowfully about him
not long after, when the postman slipped a
letter into my hand, in his handwriting, but
it hadn't got the black seal I was expecting.
When I saw the first words inside I
jumped up, clapped my hands, and then
gave God thanks — for it told me that the
young lady was going to live, and not die,
as her parents, rather than lose her, had
given their consent to her marrying Mr.
Fletcher, in spite of his Chartism and
'conventicle shop;" and all was happiness
and peace.

In due time the brave, good man brought
home his bonny bride to a pretty little
house he had taken for her on the outskirts
of East Leigh, and a new beautiful life from
that time dawned on him, after all his
sacrifices and sufferings. I rather think
we did give them both a warm reception
when they came home, and I don't know
which of the two looked the most pleased.

I hadn't very long, however, to enjoy
the sight of my dear parson's happiness,
or to profit by his teachings. My work

for Mr. Barnett was finished soon after,
and lie told me Mr. Grapnell wanted me
back in town. He was very pleasant, and
so were all the slip, and a lot of them and
my Chartist pals actually invited me to a
grand supper the night before I left, when
Mr. Fletcher took the chair, and we were
all as jolly as you please, though I was uncommonly
sorry to be leaving them.

CHAPTER V.

On my return to town, my first visit, after
seeing the dear old folks at Broadfield,
and spending a day or two with them, was
to hunt up Davie and his wife, but this
proved a longer business than I expected.
Things were not so pleasant, I found, as
they had been ; work had sometimes been
rather short, Davie didn't keep quite so
steady to his home, I am afraid, as in the
early married days, and they had had to
move into much less comfortable lodgings.
This was the more unfortunate, as two
little souls had been added to their circle,
and poor Maggie's tell-tale face, as well
as Davie's, looked rather pinched and
careworn. Of course we had a deal of
eager talk together, and I think I was of

some use to both liiisband and wife, so
that I was able to harness ito mj old
work in conjunction with Lovett with a
tolerably easy conscience. Lovett, Bern-bridge,
and other friends, by means of
the National Association, had got into a
much larger building than I left them in,
having taken what was known as Gate-street
Chapel, Lowborn, which was rechristened
as the '' National Hall."
Considerable sums of money were raised
by the help of various liberal and public-spirited
gentlemen ; but unfortunately a
debt of about 400/. remained after all
expenses were paid, and that hung like a
millstone round the neck of the association
till the day of its death, tripping our
efforts, and greatly contracting the sphere
of our usefulness. The National Hall,
which would hold about 2000 people, was
opened in July, 1842, with a public
festival. A Sunday-school had been
opened, and Bembridge was one of the
most regular teachers. The education
given consisted of reading, writing, arithmetic,

grammar, and geography, with such
other information as they were able to
give. Lectures by various eminent men
were frequently given, and altogether a
considerable amount of good was done by
this organization. Feargus O'Connor was
now developing his Land Scheme, and
getting money out of the pockets of many
unfortunate dupes, while the attention of
the working classes was of comes diverted
by the trail of this reel herring from the
pursuit of the great object for which so
many sacrifices had been made and so
much suffering endured. The state of the
country at large continued to be very
lamentable, and although there did not
seem to be so much danger of political
outbreaks or seditious and revolutionary
proceedings as there had been, there was
no little danger from the profound discontent
and intense sufferings amono- the o-reat
body of the industrial classes. I see that
Thomas Cooper, in his autobiography, has
powerfully depicted the state of things as he
witnessed it, and as many thousands felt it.

Hence, during the summer of 1842,
there was sterner business going on than
peace-making, Sturge-and-Miall Suffrage
conferences, or beneficent National Loveth
work. What was known far
and wide as the terrible " Plug Plot " was
spreading like wild-fire. The delegate
meeting held in Manchester, on August
12, had resolved, by an immense majority,
on encouraging the movement and promoting
what was called the *' Sacred
Month," in which no work of any kind
should be done "so as to see if that would
bring Parliament (as they said) to its
senses, and make them pass the Charter."
Large bodies of men went from mill to
mill in the factory districts, turning out
all the hands, and taking the plugs
from the boilers. It was whispered that
the Anti-Corn League approved of these
proceedings, believing they would help on
a repeal of the infamous Corn Laws. At
Bacup, August 12, there were 2000 men
going about with sticks, turning out the
mill-hands, and demanding provisions

from the shops. At Stourbridge, Dukin-
field, Ashton, Hyde, and. Denton, similar
work went on. Every morning fresh
news came to London ; and in many
workshops, ours included, one man was
paid by the rest to read the newspaper
during our breakfast and dinner-hour.

One of the worst rows took place at
Preston, where the military were called
out, the Riot Act read amid showers of
stones, and four men were shot dead in
the streets, besides many being wounded.
A large mill-owner at Stockport, a Mr.
Bradshaw, who had locked his factory
gates in the face of the mob, was beaten
by them so badly that he had to take to
his bed.

Military out again ! " was the frequent
exclamation in our shops of a morning,
during those dismal days. Sometimes it
was at Chatsworth, sometimes at Blackburn,
and then back again at Ashton.
For fifty miles round Manchester," Mr.
Damage says in his " History of Chartism
" (p. 242), when summing up the sad

cloino-s of the time, " the same excitement
prevailed." Even ordinary workmen,
bricklayers and others, were forced to
stop work. And the worst feature,
perhaps, of the whole affair was the
extent to which these tumultuous bodies
of men be'yQ;ed or demanded and got
money and food from large numbers of
the middle and trading classes. Night
after night excited groups of men throughout
the rest of the country and in London
gathered at their respective Chartist
meeting-places, and, rubbing their hands
exultingly, would exclaim, '' Now's the
time. It's come at last. Go it, my Lancashire
lads ! If we don't get the Charter
now, we never shall ! "

My old friend, Jem Burt, had turned
out a capital fellow — smart and handy
with his tools, and with a head on his
shoulders. He attended classes at the
Mechanics' Institute, Chancery Lane, and
often came to lectures and discussions at
the National Hall ; but, like so many more
good fellows, he had no patience with

wrong — couldn't bear to wait for Lovett's
slow moves for the Charter, and was a
great admirer — not, indeed, of O'Connor,
but of Thomas Cooper ; and was fairly
swept ose his legs by that able and earnest,
but at that time hot-headed Chartist
leader's remarkable eloquence the first
time he heard him. McDoual, also Leech,
Campbell, and other determined and
honest Chartist chiefs, had immense attractions
for him, and a fatal influence
over him. There was one magnet, however,
that I thought would keep him from
any very wild extravagance. He was
desperately in love with Maggie's younger
sister, a pretty, quiet, but very delicate
girl; and she was uncommonly fond of
him. If he could have gone on steadily
they might have been married in a year or
two.

Burt, however, was wild to hear Cooper
again, and to go to all his meetings; he
vas, in fact, quite unsettled by the state
of the times, and by what Mr. Fletcher
called his hero-worship. Thomas Cooper

seemed more to him a great deal when
this Plug Plot broke out than poor little
Nelly Thatcher. One night he came flying
up my stairs, just as I was thinking of
going to bed, after teaching at the National
Hall all the evening, and, shaking
my hand frantically, he exclaimed, '' Give
me joy, old fellow ! The Executive have
agreed to send me down to the Potteries
for a week; they want to connect us,
don't you see, with the ' Sacred Month.'
Cooper is pounding away there like a
dozen, and wants a representative of the
London Chartists ; so, praise the pigs, I'm
off tomorrow morning ! "

And to the Potteries he went, joyful
enough. Coming back was a very different
matter.

All through Staffordshire the men were
up, and it was no joke when those colliers
and ironworks lost patience, and began
to take the law into their own hands. It
was on August 7 that the great meeting
on Mottram Moor had been held, when
the resolution was passed that all labour

should cease until the People's Charter
became the law of the land, and within a
week, in nearly all the great towns of Lancashire,
thousands upon thousands of the
working classes had carried the same resolutions
amid deafening cheers. It was justa
week afterwards — that is, on Monday,
August 15 — when Burt found himself set
down by the coach at the door of an inn
in Hanley, in the Potteries, after riding
for miles every now and then through
crowds of excited colliers, who were brandishing
sticks, and swearing it was time rich
men gave poor men their rights, and Jem
said, in the few lines I had from him, " How
I longed to jump down and join them ! "

As soon as he got something to eat,
away he went to a place called the Craven
Bank, where he was told Cooper was to
hold a meeting that night. Immense
numbers of men with grimy faces and
sturdy limbs, thick sticks, and queer
speech, were pressing and jostling to get
as near the speaker as they could. Jem
was soon in the thick of the crowd and

VOL. II. H

listening with throbbing heart to all the
vehement and stirring words poured outby
the fiery orator. All the day long
Hanley, Burley, Stoke, and Langton,
had been wild with excitement, and the
tradesmen had begun putting up their
shutters long before evening. All sorts
of reports of what the mob were doing indifferent
places were flying about. Small
bodies of troops, accompanied by the
magistrates, were marching about ; but
just as they were sent for to one spot
where things looked dangerous, mounted
messengers came, urgently demanding
their presence somewhere else. Both
men and; officers were harassed to death.

Cooper's lecture was announced for
eight o'clock in the large room of the
Crown Inn at Hanley, but by six p.m. the
crowd "Vias so great that the committee
asked him to go over to the bank and
address them there. By this time it was
pretty certain that there had been serious
rioting and destruction of property in
several placeS;.

Knowing all this, Cooper dwelt strongly
in his address on the need of keeping within
the law, and declared that they who broke
it were not the friends, but the enemies of
freedom. But when he came to denounce
the crimes of the rich, and the oppression
and tyranny of the governing classes, withall
his burning eloquence, Burt said that
he, like thousands around him, felt ready
to go anywhere, and do anything that
might help to overthrow the gigantic
wickedness under which they suffered.
Men who had gone through what the
workmen of the potteries and the manufacturing
districts generally had been
suffering for many a day, were, of course,
as ready as gunpowder to explode when
such a torch was set to it.

Cooper closed the meeting at dusk, but
the crowd did not disperse. Every one
was asking, " What next ? " All seemed
to feel that after such an appeal, and now
that they were all there in their strength,
something must be done to follow it up.

We must make a beginning mates,
H 2

somewhere ! " cried a man on the bank,
close to Burt, in a voice that rang through
the air like a trumpet, and thousands of
voices shouted " bravo ! " cheering with a
great roar. Then another man cried, "We
must show our tyrants that we coi reach
them, aye, in spite of all their red-coats
and police ! " And again the cheers
boomed out. " Down with the accursed
magistrates ! They are the first of our
tyrants to be struck ! " and, while this was
being cheered more lustily than ever, two
pistol-shots were fired, and hundreds of
Hanley men shouted, " Down with Parker !
To hell with old Parker ! " and there, in
the gathering gloom, in another instant,
that vast, angry, maddened multitude were
hurrying away to the house of Mr. Parker,
a Hanley magistrate.

Happily he and his family got warning
just in time, and escaped to Burley.
Burt said he never could have believed he
should have lived to be one of a huge mob
engaged in setting fire to the house of a
peaceable man, who had certainly never

injured him. But lie said he felt at the
time as if he were being swept along in a
Holy War " against all tyrants ; that it
was, indeed, time the reign of tyranny and
the years of down-trodden misery should
come to an end ; that, as the man on the
bank had said, they must make a beginning
somewhere, and that if they struck a blow
to the best of their ability, who could tell
how mighty their example might prove,
until the revolution swept over the whole
land, and England once more was free !
As he said on his trial, when, in a few
simple, and very touching words, he tried
to make out the best case for himself
he could, '' Xo one who has not been in
the midst of an immense and excited crowd
can have any idea how catching their madness
is, and how you seem to lose hold on
yourself, and to become merely part of a
huge body, rushing here and there without
any will of your own, but full of the feeling
that makes every one shout and roar, and
perhaps fight, burn, or destroy." I know
that is true. I have felt something the

same more than once, as if I were part of
a huge monster, like a wild elephant, but
with the teeth of a lion, and the rage of a
mad bull. And, as I told poor Jem, I did
not so much blame him for being carried
away with the mob, as for going among
them at all at the first. Yet who would
not have wanted to hear Cooper speak that
night ? Certainly he was most to blame.
But then he hardly knew the extent, I
suppose, of his own power. So Jem went
at the work of destruction with a will,
joined as lustily as the maddest among
them in the yells of triumph with which
the thick darkness was soon lighted by the
lurid flames shooting up from the magistrate's
doomed mansion, and then rushed
off with the infuriated riot ors, when that
work was finished, to surround Dr. Yale's
house at Langton. There also, happily,
the family had got away in time, but the
obnoxious magistrate had a narrow escape.
And now began a scene which has so often
been both the saddest in itself, and the
cause of infinitely worse evils and crimes

than ever would have been committed, but
for the devilish spirit inspired by drink.
Some of the foremost of the mob, before
the house was fired, broke into the doctor's
cellar, knocked off the necks of the bottles
by hundreds, and soon, to Burt's infinite
horror and disgust, he saw numbers of his
fellow-patriots in a state of beastly drunkenness.
Those who had drunk, but not
enough to be stupefied, rushed at the work
of destruction with wilder devilry than ever.
Not only Dr. Yale's mansion, but other
dwellings in the neighbourhood were
quickly in flames from top to bottom.
Soon terrified women and children, half
naked, ran shrieking past, flying for their
lives through the flames and the crowd,
into the darkness ; and then, as the oaths,
curses, and shouts rang louder and louder,
mingled at last with cries of " The soldiers 1
the soldiers ! " Burt stopped in his course,
drew out of the mob, and began to ask
himself if all this frightful business was
indeed the commencement of a reign of
Freedom, Justice, and Peace.

The soldiers did come ; too late to prevent
incalculable mischief and misery, but intime
to prevent that mischief spreading
far and wide. Jem Burt heard them
coming, when, long after midnight,
dispirited, and ready to drop with fatigue,
with a vague, terrible feeling of guilt and
remorse on his mind, and his thoughts
flying through the darkness at last to the
quiet village of Broadfield sleeping peacefully,
he was trying to creep back to his
inn unobserved either by rioters or the
military. In vain.

So long as the captain of the little
company of soldiers was uncertain in the
darkness whether he might not have to
charge a fighting mob, he kept his men well
together; but when it became clear, as they
came near the light of the burning houses,
that the rioters, having had notice of the
approach of the military, were taking to
their heels, he gave orders to capture as
many prisoners as his men could secure
and keep. Unhappily for Burt, he was
one of the first observed by an active

young corporal. Then he found himself
caught as he stumbled along, bound, and
handed over to the guard, almost before he
knew what had happened.

Thomas Cooper had wisely yielded to the
urgent advice of his friends when they saw
how matters were going, and started about
midnight for Macclesfield on foot (as no
one would lend him a gig), accompanied by
two young men, who were sure they knew
the way. His object was to catch the train
for Manchester the next morning, and so
be present at the Chartist delegate meeting
in that town.

Of his adventures that dismal night he
has given a graphic account in his autobiography
also of the proceedings at the
delegate meeting. But to follow up the
further events of that sad and memorable
time would lead me too far afield. He
was arrested not long after for his share
in the scenes which had been taking place
in the Potteries, and narrowly escaped

" The Life of Thomas Cooper." Written by
himself. London : Fodder and Houghton.

transportation for setting fire to "Dr. Yale's
and Mr. Parker's houses, when lie was
many miles away. But lie got two years'
imprisonment in Stafford gaol for *' sedition
and conspiracy."

It was during that imprisonment, of
which he also gives a striking narrative (as,
indeed, he does of his whole career), that
he wrote his remarkable poem, " The
Purgatory of Suicides;" but, like William
Lovett and many other political prisoners,
he was at first so hardly used, that his
health gave way, and had he not secretly
obtained the means of writing to Thomas
Buncombe, M.P. (that staunch friend of
the people's rights), he would probably
never have come out of the gaol alive, and
would certainly have written no poetry,
for he was not allowed pens, ink, paper, or
books till his case, with all its attendant
hardships, was brought forward in the
House of Commons.

Still he had done a world of mischief,
though his intentions were worthy of any
true patriot. And long after he had left
gaol in triumph, and was living and working

happily at home and in the great world,
some of those who had been goaded by his
resistless eloquence into deeds of violence,
not at Hanlej alone, were wearing out
their lives in chain-gangs in the colonies.
For the act recently passed by Sir George
G-rey, was brought to bear heavily on
these rioters. Jem was tried with the
rest, and sent across the seas, after one
heart-breaking interview with poor Nelly
Thatcher and the rest of us. Nelly
couldn't get over it, for, as I said, she was
of a very delicate constitution, and before
Jem had been gone three years, she was
sleeping in Broadfield churchyard. It was
sorrowful news to send to Sydney, and it
was a sad trouble to Maggie and her
mother. Maggie had loved the weakly
little sister with great love, as, indeed,
she seemed to love all whom she cared
about, more or less, even her reprobate
old father, as far as he'd let her. And
even he came to be kind to her a bit at
last, after they had stood together by Nelly's
dying-bed. But all these troubles were a
black shadow on her heart for many a day.

Davie Roberts, happily for him, was out
of that hole. He had learnt his lesson,
but, among other of my friends, he felt
the pinch of those dark days. Wages were
lower, and sometimes there was no work
for him at all. Many a talk had I listened
to in which men were expressing very
audibly their dissatisfaction with the existing
state of things. At the meetings which
were held by different trades there were
some very rash and violent notions uttered,
with threats of vengeance for what the men
knew to be the wrongs under which they
were labouring; but sometimes uncommonly
good sense was talked. I remember
Kelso making a fine speech one night at
a lodge meeting about the necessity for
workmen to get better educated in their
trades. After talking about the bad
state of trade, and the Stafford Assizes,
and the Charter, and how far the masters
and governing classes ought to find work
for us, he went on, — *' Why, you know,
mates, in old times the journeyman seemed
to belong to his master, and really did in

the old feudal castles, where tailors, shoemakers,
carpenters, &c., were all serfs of
the baron ; and then in the towns, in
the trade guilds, you would find the master
sitting side by side with his journeymen,
teaching them all he knew. But masters,
now-a-days, don't know much (A laugh),
and, therefore, can't teach the men ; but,
for all that, they can't get it out of their
heads that those under them belong to
them all the same, and that not one in
their employment has any right to say a
word to them, and that nobody outside has
any right to say a word for them, anymore
than if they were out-and-out their
slaves (Great applause). Now, I don't
like the word ' master,' it smacks a little
too much of serfdom and despotism to
please me. But, mind you, when it means
a ' teacher,' as it used to once, among
handicraftsmen, and as it does still for
schoolboys, then I don't object. Nothing
I have liked better all my life than to find
a man who could be my master in that
sense. If a man can and will teach me

anything, I don't care who lie be — employer
or journeyman, lord or chimney-sweep —
then I'm his obedient pupil, and much
obliged to him (Modified applause). I heard
a gentleman tell a good story the other day
of how he was travelling outside a stagecoach,
with a man on the box talking with
the coachman in a very flashy, conceited
sort of way about the nonsense of
orders of nobility, and saying that he had
travelled with Earl Ducis in a railway
carriage the other day, and looked at him
from head to foot, and didn't think he looked
a much better sort of man than himself,
after all ; ' but then, you know, coachman,'
said my fellow-traveller, ' I never did see
a better man than myself, did you ? ' 'I
thought,' said the gentleman, ' that he must
be a good one, to be sure of that, but I
could see he was only a seedy sort of chap ;
and then I made bold to remark that I
thought the speaker was about the most
unlucky man I ever met with. He seemed
quite taken aback ; didn't utter a word all
the rest of the way ; perhaps he was sulky,

perhaps it gave him and coach such a deal
to think of, that the could do nothing else
till they got to the journey's end.' (A
laugh.) Now, don't you see, mates," continued
Kelso, '' the thing we most want in
this world is to find men who are better
than ourselves, who can teach us, and give
us a wrinkle or two, not only in our trades,
but in a good many other matters also ?
It's only nasty conceited folks, fellows
always wanting to be cocks o' the walk,
that can't bear any to be better than themselves.
Why not use your play-time to
get a better knowledge of your trades, and
of the real principles on which you have to
work ? A man who doesn't understand
what he's doing, and only just does what
he's told, and in the way that it's shown to
him, after all is but a poor stick, tho' he
mayn't be a knob stick, but a downright
honest fellow." (Some laughter, hissing,
and applause.)

When the men were talking together
after Kelso sat down, I heard one of my
shipmates saying, —

Aye, but there's a bit of truth in some
of that jabber. Don't you see it's all very
well with us when in the shop, or jobbing
about, as long as were only got to keep on
the square, and the mitre will serve ; but
when it comes to bevels and curves, and
getting your centres right, and so on, then
your rule of thumb is just the devil to pay,
and no mistake."

The men near him laughed, and some
said, —

Right you are, Tom ; we'll go bail for
that."

Others growled, and said, —

It was all nonsense. They had got
eyes in their heads, and supposed they
could see where to cut."

'' Ah ! " said Kelso, turning on them,
but I suppose you can't, unless the foreman
stands by you half the day ! "

'' Gammon ! " cries one of the grumblers.
'what d'ye mean?"

Mean ! Why, you know as well as I
do, that I had to nurse you all the time you
were putting up that hip-roof last week in

the Old-street-road. I couldn't trust you
to cut one of those rafters by yourself."

The man turned away very sulky, but
the rest of us knew it was all true, and only
laughed. Kelso said to me afterwards, as
we were walking home, —

You see, Woodford, in many trades
what men want is to learn how to make
models. They ought to be brought up to
make working-drawings for, and also from,
models in wood, tin, zinc, &c., because,
don't you see, they would then learn how
to grasp the shapes and sizes of the various
objects which they are required to make,"

Yes," said I, " and all that, 1 suppose,
would help us in working to scale."

Of course. You found that working
to scale is one of a man's greatest difficulties."


Yell, it's easy enough, Mr. Kelso, as
you know, to work on a quarter-scale drawing,
for most of us, I suppose, soon learn
that then a quarter-inch stands for a foot.
But when you come to talk of a three-eighths
scale, for instance — " and I

VOL. II. I

stopped, looking very dismal, for I remembered
one or two plaguy rows over that
figure.

Kelso could not help laughing at my wry
face, and said, as we parted at the corner
of the street, —

Why, I don't believe one man in a dozen
would be able to make out his three-eighths
of an inch to the foot, or, for that matter,
be able to take the dimensions required for
his own job from any drawing."

'' More shame, Mr. Kelso, for those who
had the teaching of us."

Well, you've hit the nail there, Wood-ford,"
said he, over his shoulder; then added,
with a bitter sort of chuckle, " And how
many of 'em would have cared to learn anything
if they had had the chance ? "

Ah, said I to myself, there's the rub.
But we must catch 'em when young. However,
that hint about making models I found
one of the best wrinkles he 4iad ever given
me.

Now I know there is a good deal of truth,
also, in what Kelso said about masters

when lie was talking to us that night, and
I know there is plenty of fault may be
found in the way they treat the men. But
when workmen become masters, I am sorry
to say I have seen them turn against the
men, and drive them harder and treat them
worse than born gentlemen. I know it's
only natural we should do so, but still I
think it is a bad nature ; and I have tried
always pretty hard myself to keep a lump
of love for the men somewhere in my own
heart, and to respect them and show I
respected them unless they did what was
disrespectable. But then, again, I've seen
what I didn't see so clearly then, that the
men themselves are often a great deal to
blame for the way they get used, and as
I've more than once said to them since,
If we didn't spend so much of our wages
in drink, and got a little more education,
and kept ourselves generally more like the
middle-class folks both in manners and conversation,
we should certainly be treated
more respectfully by the employers."

I 2

CHAPTER VI.

I AM quite sure that many a time disputes,
and even strikes, would be avoided if employers
were in the habit of treating the
men more respectfully, and if the men
deserved it. So many of those fights
between Labour and Capital (as they are
called) would never take place but for misunderstandings,
and these often grow out
of want of mutual respect. I never can
understand why the capitalists and the
workmen should not settle their differences
with regard to wages, just as friendly like
as merchants and brokers settle the terms
on which they are to buy and sell when
they meet on 'Change. As a master
builder, now, I have to go and buy my
wood of the timber merchants, and of

course I want to get it as cheap as I can,
and tliej want to get as good price for it
as they can, and if we can't agree there
is no bargain made ; but then we don't
quarrel about it, and very likely next time
we meet there is business done between us.
The only reason why it should not be so
between the employers and their work-people
seems to me the ignorance of one
another's real position, and the want, as I
said, of mutual respect. But at the time
I'm speaking of, I often felt as mad against
the masters and well-to-do folk generally,
as most of my mates. I thought nearly
all the fault was on their side, and didn't
think how hard they or their fathers must
have been working and saving, and how
many comforts they must have denied
themselves before they could have come
into their property and got the whip hand
of us working men. Since I became an
employer myself I've noticed that at least
two-thirds or more of all employers, or
their fathers, all over the kingdom, were
only journeymen once, and that they were

saving while others were spending, working
with their hands and brains while the rest
were idling or worse. And if it had not
been for their savings workmen couldn't
be set to work and get wages. So that, I
see, working men owe a deal of thanks to
the capitalist, and, instead of grudging him
fair profits, should look on him as their
best friend for getting capital together. It
opens one's eves to many things to change
places with other people. Still, 1 don't
mean to say but what there's been a deal
of injustice and selfishness that has helped
to keep down the workmen and labourers,
especially in the way the laws have been
made and worked, and the way in which
the upper-class folk have got hold of all
the land. And then, again, I see it isn't
merely by working and saving that the
masters have got their capital. They get
a deal of it together on credit. Only
others must have saved, or nobody would
have any money to lend them.

But, though I'm as sure as I live that
there's been a deal of wrong done in these

matters, I don't feel so sure as I used to do
about all the remedies. Those who come
after me, I hope will have had a better
education than I had, and be able to put
things rather more on the square.

However, good advice, come from where
it may, don't fill the belly, and many were
the supperless nights when men, women,
and children had to go to bed with little
enough for that day, and not knowing whereto
get a bit for the next. Yet, somehow
or another, throughout all these bad times,
there was generally a few coppers for the
beer. It was in times like these, however,
that men found the value of having formed
their Trades Unions ; and perhaps this is
the place to mention some very good remarks
1 heard Eufford make one night at
a meeting of his trade, when he was trying
to draw in a lot of journeymen engineers
to join their society. Eufford, I should
say, had been very quiet since his imprisonment,
and I was afraid at one time that
from sheer want of excitement he would be
going to the bad, for he'd sit and soak for

hours together at the '' public," and never
seemed to care much about anything.
However, he was a right good fellow at
bottom, as I always thought, and he got
out of this state after a time, when his
master had given him a difficult job down
at their works at Greenwich, and let him
contract, himself, for a part of it. It all
turned out very well ; the master was both
satisfied and pleased, advanced his wages,
and on the strength of this, and from a
real wish, I believe, to lead a steady life,
he took a fancy to a good girl at the house
where he lodged at Greenwich, and straightaway
married her. All this, however, didn't
make him appear less interested in the
advancement of his fellow-workmen, but
more so, I think ; and what he was saying
the night I spoke of was something like
this : " Trades Unions protect the masters
from bad workmen, and the public from bad
work. If the men were ground down one
after another to starvation wages they
would of course degenerate in skill,
strength, and general ability for turning

out a good day-work. Besides this, they
would at length, in many cases, be driven
by discontent, and perhaps desperation, to
acts of violence ; and we should have
plenty of Whiteboyism or Recites in this
country as well as in the Green Island. In
fact, we need not be surprised if Captain
Swing, with his matches and blazing stacks,
appeared amongst the industrial classes if
ever they were brought as low as the agricultural
labourers were in 1830 ; and they
hould be, without Trades Unions. Those
wretched labourers, with their eight or nine
shillings a week, could never have been
brought to - that pass if they could have
refused to work for less than twelve or
thirteen, and had had a Trades Union to
back them up. (Applause.) And then only
see what a corporate, and so to say,
brotherly spirit is created among workmen
by these Unions ; how much the knowledge
that they belong to a Society for mutual
help raises and dignifies a man. Why, even
a militia man, when he has got his uniform
on, is on his mettle not to disgrace the

regiment he belongs to. WTiat a benefit it
would have been to agricultural labourers,
morally as well as in regard to wages, if
they belonged to an organization for mutual
protection and support ; and what a fine
thing it is for a fellow to say : ' There, I
have been paying my money into the
Society for many a day, and if I don't
want help from it, that will be because I
am doing well myself, and then my money
will go to help some poor devil who wants
it more nor I do.' Don't you see, gentlemen,"
said Rufford, " the capital of the
employers enables them to hold out so
much longer in any dispute with the workmen
than they (the men) can singly ; and
unless they have raised capital by their
weekly subscriptions they have nothing ta
fall back upon. Trades Unions, in fact,
cmrfpel employers to put such a price on
their goods as will allow of a decent livelihood
in the shape of fair wages to the
workman. If customers can't or won't
afford that price, it would be better the
trade should be given up and that capital

should go into other channels. This
applies not only to one trade, but to the
building and all other trades ; if houses
cannot be built for less than fair wages
will allow of, the landlords must lower
rents or the population must go somewhere
else ; anything better than that the workman,
whose labour is essential to everything,
should be ground down to starvation
wages. (Applause.) So with regard to long
hours ; working men, without Trades
Unions, would be compelled to slave away
for a much larger portion of the day, and
all the while a lot of other men would be
out of work because their mates are doing
too much. 1^0, no ! what I say is, a fair
dayes wage for a fair day's work, and
brotherly union among the workmen to put
them on a footing for Q:ettino: their dues.
(Applause.) But then, mind you, it must
be a fair day's work, and a day of good
work. If we keep up wages, my mates,
we must keep up a good standard of workmanship
too. And I'll tell you one thing
more before I've done; it's true that only

by getting capital, as I said just now,
can we meet the employers on equal terms ;
but I am not sure but what if we could
employ our capital by going into business
on our own account, and have workshops
of our own, instead of going on strike and
spending the money for supporting one
another while at play, it might be better
for us all. However, that is a big subject,
and I won'fc go into it now, for the good
reason that I don't quite understand it
myself (Laughter). But this I do understand,
that, if we are to do any good for
ourselves and for one another and wives
and children, we must keep ourselves sober
and steady, and lay by money for the rainy
day." (Considerable applause, amidst
which Rufford resumed his seat.)

Turning round to come away, wasn't I
surprised at seeing Mr. Fletcher just
behind me, with that pleasant smile on his
fine face which was sunshine to all who
met it.

'' Just run up, Master Jem, for a week,
to see how I like a set of good fellows in

Camden Town, who've asked me to come
and be their shepherd in my poor way, and
for them to see if they like me. ' Fair
play,' you know ' is a jewel,' and what's
sauce for the goose, &c. So we are taking
stock of each other, you see." Didn't I
hope he'd make a match of it with them !
and two of his best sermons he gave them
the next Sunday, which I took good care
to hear.

And how's the missus, sir ? " said I,
as we walked away together. The brightness
on his face when he answered, showed
me that all was right there, and that he
was as happy as ever I could wish him to be.

But, Woodford," he continues, " 1
tracked you out to have a talk with you
to-night, and I'm exceedingly glad I heard
your friend's little speech, and I've long
felt sure Trades Unions are absolutely
necessary in the present state of things.
But then 1 hear them denounced by the
upper class because they interfere so tyrannically
with a man's right to make the best
bargain with his employer that he can.

You know, Woodford, it does seem a slime
that a clever workman shouldn't be allowed
to earn as much as he can "

Ah, but Mr. Fletcher," I cried, interrupting
him, " that's all a hum ! Trades
Unions only fix what you call a minimum
wage, a sum which they say every man is
worth whom they admit into the Union.
They don't say a man shan't earn more if
he can get it ! "

'' Don't they ? Do you mean to tell me
there' d be no jealousy in a shop if it were
known that one or two of the men were
receiving 20 per cent, more than the rest ?
unless in some very exceptional cases ? "

I was rather taken aback at this, for I
knew it was so. But I answered, " Well,
sir, I can't say but what there would be
jealousy. But there's no Trades Union rule
to forbid the thing."

Perhaps not, my friend, but public
opinion, backed up, it may be with a little
mild persecution or even fattening, is
stronger than rules, eh, Woodford ? And
you know men have refused to work, struck

out-right, because of what tliej called the
injustice of paying one man more than
another." I couldn't deny it. '' But," he
continued, " there's another matter.
There's no use, mv dear fellow, blinking
facts. One does hear such complaints of
the idleness, negligence, and worse, of
working men, and I've seen so much of it
myself during my ife-time, that I'm almost
afraid to say a word for them lest I get my
head snapped off."

WTiat kind of bad conduct, sir, is it ?"
"Well, here's a man comes to do a job;
he comes late, finds he has not got all the
tools, or stuff, he wants, goes back to get
them, spends an hour or two looking at
his work, half-an-hour more in chatting
with the servant-girls — goes away early,
saying the job can't be finished to-day —
and worst of all, he's charged with malting
work for some other operative or himself,
at a later time, by leaving a leak here or a
chink there. Why, Woodford, only since
I've been in town this time a physician,
whom I met the other dav at dinner, when

I was cracking up my workmen-friends,
told us that as tie sat by a patient's bedside
lie noticed a man at work on the roof
of the opposite house. Presently the man
crept along to the roof of the next house,
and with his own eyes he saw him loosen
and remove one of the slates on it, and
then creep back again. Of course, when
the next rain comes, there'll be an outcry,
and our friend the slater will be sent
for."

That's very bad, Mr. Fletcher, if it's
true. But perhaps the man saw that the
slate was loose, and would be blown down
on somebody's head ; and he may have told
the people when he got down. And before
I thought much of that story, or of any
of those conundrums one hears of against
our class, don't you think it would be only
fair to cross-examine the witnesses, and
hear the defence of the accused, eh? "

*' All right, Jem," said he ; " if we could
get at them, and bring them face to face.
But we can't ; and all that we can do is to
sift every story we hear, and let each party

and folks of both classes know what is
thought and said of them."

And give each the chance, as far as we
can, of defending themselves, sir."

Yes, and speak up for those who can't
speak for themselves."

'' That's it, Mr. Fletcher ! and I know
the worries will have a good word from
you. But there it is — bother, we don't all
deserve a good word. Of course, there
are bad as well as good among us, and
plenty of the bad, I'm afraid. But so
there are in all ranks ; and I can tell you
a secret. The masters themselves are sometimes
to blame for the idleness of the men.
Did you never hear of their sending a man
to do a job, and telling him perhaps he'll
have to ' go in the hospital ' ? "

Xo ! "

Yell, they do ; and when a man gets a
hint of that kind he knows he mustn't get
through his work too quickly, or there'll
be nothing more for him to do at present.
But, mind, I do say there's a deal that's
unfair and dishonest among us journey.

VOL. II. K

men, even towards one another. Much
more one may expect it towards well-to-do
folk, who are always supposed by Jack
Plane & Co. to have no end of cash, and
to be all the better for being bled a little."
Mr. Fletcher laughed, and I added, " Yes,
there's a droll side to the devil's Avork,
but it seems to me, sir, the gentlefolks
who blame us all so bitterly, and sometimes
so deservedly, ought to ask themselves
what they are doing, or what their fathers
did, to teach us to keep the Eighth commandment,
or any commandments at all."

"Indeed!" said Mr. Fletcher, rather
sternly. " What have a few hundred
thousand Sunday-schools been about,
then, I should like to know ? Did you
never hear of them, Woodford ? "

"Yes, sir," said I; "but who teaches
the teachers ? " Mr. Fletcher looked very
grave over it, but we had a rare good walk
in the Regent's Park together, and he even
came and took a cup of tea at my lodgings,
when I got Davie to come too, and they
liked one another immensely; and Mrs.

Taylor brought up some sausages and
mashed potatoes, and we were so jolly.
We talked, among other things, about the
slater and " going in the hospital," and I
remember Davie saying, " Ah, but the
plumbers are the fellows to make work for
their mates ; and one of 'em told me a few
days back that they and their masters
between 'em, crib bits of lead and old taps,
and call it * plunder.' " I guess we all
laughed, though it was a dirty business to
laugh over; and afterwards Davie said,
when Mr. Fletcher asked him more about
the whole system, —

Why, you see, sir, I hold that the
masters are more to blame than the men,
because they're naturally looked up to by
their workmen, and if they encourage the
men to ' plunder,' and allow so much for
all that's brought in, the men feel their
consciences quieted, and think it's all
right because the master takes all those
odds-ancients into account when he's
giving his estimate for the work. But
I'm bound to think it's thieving for all

K 2

that." In which view we all agreed, and
then I got Davie to give us a bit of singsong,
for lie had a fine voice, and it was a
rare treat to hear him.

Since then, tho' I've become a master or
employer myself, I do think the masters
are most to blame, not only because they
are looked to as an example, but because
they ought to know better than the men,
except indeed that they were generally
only workmen once, themselves. But
when they tell a man, as Davie allowed,
and as I know they sometimes do, that he
must not hurry over a job he's sent to,
because work is slack, we can't wonder if,
when they want to put on the steam, they
find the man has learnt his lesson of
dawdling only too well, and refuses to be
pushed. As a very sensible customer of
mine, who was buying a house of me outby
Hackney Downs, said to me, when we
were talking of this matter (and he was a
thorough gentleman, fair to all parties, all
round): ** If a master sells himself to his
men, he mustn't wonder if, some day, they

turn on him. If he makes them cheat his
customers, he must expect that they'll
cheat on their own account (himself among
others), when they've learnt their lesson."
Of course. And I think the root of the
evil is (as this gentleman afterwards said),
the employers' over-anxiety to be rich. If
they would be content with moderate
profits, they wouldn't be tempted or driven
to all this dirty work. I can see that
more clearly since I went into business
for myself. But then, I see, also, that
the great capitalists often can and do
afford to take less profit than the smaller
ones, and so they beat the little masters
out of the field. It isn't always that
employers cheat or put the screw on the
men, "in haste to be rich," but just to
keep themselves from being drowned. Soit's
a muddle which ever way you look at
it, and I can't see my way out of it at
present.

Afford says Co-operation would cure it
all. Mr. Fletcher says : " Yes, Co-operation
plus Christianity, not minus Christ."

If you don't understand that, I do,
because I've learnt Algebra, as you had
better do, and because I go to hear Mr.
Fletcher preach, as you had better do also.

When Mr. Fletcher and Davie were
going away that night, and we were
finishing up our talk on the doorstep, Mr.
Fletcher said, as he shook hands with
me, —

I think you and Mr. Roberts urge a
good deal more for your fellow-workmen
behind their backs than you'd like to say
to their faces. What do you say now to
scamped work ? You never heard of such
a thing, I daresay."

Davie pulled such a long face that I
burst out a-laughing, but I clenched my
fists, and cried, " Drat the beggars, Mr.
Fletcher ! I wish all scamps in every trade
were tarred and feathered ; only, perhaps,
there wouldn't be honest men enough to
master the rogues ; but I never could
abide scamped work, either as journeyman
or employer, and I do know there's a rare
lot of it."

Davie lit this pipe, and looked at the
stars. (I always liked better looking at
them, by-the-bye, without the pipe.)

But, dear Mr. Fletcher," I whispered,
*' did you never hear of stamping parsons,
who bought their sermons and sold their
prayers ?"

He broke into a merry laugh; and so
ended that happy evening, and, soon after
came the darkest days of all.

Since those times I've known and heard
of many noble-hearted clergymen, both
among Church and dissenting folks, who
seem to me to be doing a deal of good.
But there will never be any of them that
could be to me what Edward Fletcher was.
He was Bunyan's Christian, Faithful, and
Great Heart all in one, I think. But I
mustn't, for my life, let him know that I
thought such a deal of him ; or he would
most likely have cut me for ever after, asa
toady and a fool.

CHAPTER Iii.

It will be remembered that when Mi
Fletcher came back to East Leigh from the
Joseph Sturge '' Complete Suffrage Conference,"
held in the spring of 1842 at Birmingham,
he told us that another and more
thoroughly representative conference was
to be held in the following December, and
which was ultimately attended by between
400 and 500 delegates. Accordingly great
preparations were made for it in all quarters
among the Chartists and their generous
sympathizers in the middle-class. Joseph
Sturge, Sharman Crawford, M.P., Edward
Meal], Arthur Albright, the Rev. Thomas
Spencer, rector of Linton-Charterhouse (a
truly large-hearted man according to my
notion), and a few other brave good men

among the gentry who had originated or
welcomed the '' Complete Suffrage " movement,
came again to the front. William
Lovett and his party were heartily supporting
it. But Feargus O'Connor, Julian
Harney, the '' Rev." William Hill, and the
whole brood of physical force partisans
were up and doing, and working with all
their might and main to get a majority of
their friends at the approaching meeting.
This, however, they would not have had,
nor would much harm, perhaps, have been
done, but for a fatal mistake, when the
conference opened, on the part of Sturge
and his supporters ; for, unhappily, they
were ill advised enough to insist on the
bill embodying the six points of the Charter
which they had drafted, but which they
called the "Bill of Rights" (in order to
avoid the hindrance to the movement
caused by the name of the People's Charter),
being made the first and principal
subject of discussion in the conference.
Even Lovett objected to this ; for, as the
father of the Charter, and a profound believer

both, in the wisdom of the name and
the righteousness of the movement which
he had started, he of course could not seethe
justice or expediency of throwing it all
aside for the sake of a bran new document
now first brought forward; while the
O'Connorites of course were not only justly
indignant at the proposal, but mightily
pleased at the chance it gave them of upsetting
the Sturgites, whom they certainly
regarded with anything but charitable feelings,
while O'Connor himself was boiling
over with ill-concealed resentment at anyone
presuming to take thereabout of his own
hands. Lovett, however, with Mr. Fletcher
(who was again delegated to represent us),
and all their party, in the interests of peace,
consented to a conciliatory motion proposed
by a very able young man of the name of
Somers, from the west of Scotland, to the
effect that the Bill of Rights, &c., should
be discussed pari passu (as I believe the
lawyers say) with the Charter, that is,
clause by clause, until the whole was settled,
neither taking precedence of the other. To

this reasonable proposal, however, unfortunately,
Mr. Sturge and his friends could
not agree, and Somers' amendment was
lost. Then came a vote on the resolution
proposed by Sturge and Co. for the Bill
of Eights to be discussed as the basis of
the conference, when it was lost by a large
majority, even Mr. Fletcher, to his immense
mortification, as he told us afterwards,
being obliged to vote against men for
whom he had such profound respect and
regard as the noble-hearted Quaker, and
many others of that denomination who had
rallied round him, such as Arthur Albright,
with Arthur O'Neill, Henry Vincent, Parry,
and especially Edward Miall, for whom he
always felt the highest esteem.

Thereupon the Sturge party withdrew
from the conference, and carried on their
deliberation in a separate building, leaving
William Lovett and Feargus O'Connor withall
their respective adherents, and poor
Mr. Fletcher, who was neither " fish, fowl,
nor good red herring," to carry on their
work by themselves. Feargus, of course.

was jubilant in a high degree. He and his
friends rubbed their hands with no attempt
at concealing their glee at having discomfited
the arrogant enemy, " who had presumed
to intrude themselves in their broadcloth
and starch among the honest workingmen
of England ;" while Mr. Lovett and
his reasonable friends were proportionately
dejected at what they saw was the utter
failure of this noble scheme for uniting the
upper and working classes in an attempt to
gain equal rights and liberties for all. Mr.
Fletcher told us when he came back that
he feared the movement "had suffered irreparable
mischief;" and so it proved from
that time ; though Feargus kept on his way,
exulting, for several years, drawing large
profits from the Northern Star, and blazing,
away through that brazen trumpet of his
with all his old insolence, beating down
rivals and glorifying himself. The movement,
as a matter of fact, after this never
had any real strength, though it made a
deal of noise at times ; even Lovett could
do nothing to reinstate it; and April 10,

1848, practically sealed its final and most inglorious
extinction in the celebrated " Kennington
Common " humbug of that date.
O'Connor's character by that time was
seen through by large numbers, though he
was still cracked up by a few bigoted and
blindfold partisans ; and his Land Scheme
finished ofi" the tale of his own incessant
attempts to cajole his followers and fleece
his dupes. Not that I think he had, by any
means, a desire or purpose to make money
out of their idolatry and folly. It was rather
a craving to satisfy his morbid vanity and
ambition which drove him forward in his
most mischievous career. But O'Connor's
idea of getting the people more on to the
land, I believe, was very good in itself. It
was his way of carrying it out that was so
unbusiness-like and discreditable. As diverting
attention, and funds also, from the
political reform he had been declaring so
vehemently essential to the welfare of the
country, it was specially ill-timed. I've
nothing to say about O'Connor's private
character. That was no business of mine.

It is in regard to the mischief lie did as a
public man that I want my fellow workmen
to learn what they can from his career.
And, even as a public character, I've no
wish to charge him with deliberate wickedness,
in spite of all the evil he did to our
class and the country generally. He was
only an instance (at least in my judgment)
of how much ill (when he can find fools to
believe in him) a man may do who gives
himself up to vanity and ambition, not
troubling himself about the mischief he's
doing, if only he" can glorify himself and
compass his own ends. I once heard Mr.
Fletcher preach from the words, '' Thou
shalt not do evil that good may come'*
and every word seemed to me a verdict
against O'Connor, as well as a good many
other pretentious politicians and brilliant
statesmen. But I'm only an ignorant
fellow, perhaps, in these matters.

It's a pity when one has to say so much
evil of any man as I've had to say of that
red-pated Irishman ; but it's no use blinking
facts, and one must call a spade a spade.

if better people are not to be humbugged
and half ruined. In this case, the big
spade " altogether ruined, not only many
better men than himself, but one of the
best movements for working men and the
nation at large ever started. And, as
there are always great political impostors
like him in different ranks coming up in
every period, and carrying away a lot of
silly folk, who are always ready and waiting
to be gulled by showy clap-trap, it seems
as well to remind working men of the
present day how a number of their fathers
were gulled by a mountebank forty years
ago, and choose O'Connor to swear by instead
of William Lovett. We had a bad
time of it at our first meeting after Lovett
returned to town from the conference, and
it seemed as if we were being driven back
into the desert and were never to go into
the '' promised land " at all.

Another year or two passed. I was saying
just now that Davie Eoberts was sometimes
out of work. He had two children,
nice little dears as ever you could wish to

see; but my heart sometimes ached for
them, as well as for the father and mother,
and many a time on Thursday or Friday
nights I know they were often hard up for a
crust of bread, even when he was in work ;
for the usual wao^es given then were not
enough to keep them all comfortably in food
and clothing. Xow, Davie had never been
what you call a drinking-man, and brought
home most of his wages on Saturday night;
but of course he wanted a talk now and
then with his companions, and he also had
to go to " the public' " to pay his contributions
loth to his benefit club and to his
trades union lodge. But whenever he was
there something must be spent. And
especially on Saturday nights, when all the
'* tubbing" for the little folks was going
on, and he had given his missis a handful
of silver, it didn't seem much to take a
shilling and get out of the way. And yet,
as I said, there was not enough to keep
them all in decent comfort, even if he hadn't
spent a penny on himself. But it does
seem hard if a fellow can't have a pint now

and then with a friend. I recollect one
night, when I had gone home with him, he
began complaining to his wife, rather
crossly, of the ragged state of the children,
and. of course, she flared up, and asked him
how he thought she could clothe and keep
them decently on the wages he brought
home, ''or even," she cried, '' keep the poor
little dears alive. You know they're always
ailing, Davie, and it's high time that we
got out of this place ; the drains are filthy,
and the roof lets in the water."

'well, but," said I, "the landlord
ought to do something for you, Mrs.
Eoberts."

The landlord ? and my curse go with
him ! " said the excited woman. " The
landlord won't spend a shilling on us, and
only says, ' if we don't like the place we
may go.' "

But after a time matters got worse ; and
then one night a woman on the first-floor
back told me, when I had come round to
learn how they were getting on, " That it
was sad to see those poor little children

VOL. II. L

and their mother crying together, and poor
Davie looking as if he were going to be
hung." I couldn't eat my own meals in
peace, knowing all this, and, of course, I
did what I could to help them ; but I began
to see that the wages in our trade, at all
events, ought to be raised, and I was not
sorry when word was passed through the
shops that a formal application must be
made to the masters for an increase of three
shillings a week. I was talking this over
with Davie as we walked to his home, but
when we got up to his rooms poor Maggie
met us at the top of the stairs with such a
miserable look on her face, that it haunted
me for a long time after. It seems one of
the children was very ill, and the doctor
said it was along of bad smells and want of
food and fresh air ; and then she cried to
her husband, —

Look here what your master's giving
you, and yet he rides in his carriage himself,
and has plenty of food, and gardens,
and ponies, and dogs for his children, and
then off to the sea when they want it ; and

how is he treating us, 1 should like to
know?"

Davie growled out, —

'' Aye, wife ; but there are a great many
folks worse off than we are ; and all the
time there are my Lords This and Mr.
That having their great balls and parties,
and going a-hunting and shooting all over
the country. Many a man keeps his fifty
horses and dogs, all better housed and fed
than we are !"

This didn't help to soothe the poor
mother's mind, and certainly she scolded
away in a manner that made me very sorry
to find myself there. However, we tried
to pacify her by telling her what the men
were resolving to do, which gave her a
little comfort for a time, and she nursed
the poor little sufferer that night with a
more hopeful heart. In a few days, however,
the child was worse, and Davie had
to bring word home to his wife that some
of the men had *• caved in," and that there
was no real *' fight " in them, so that the
employers had refused the application
L 2

point-black, and told the men that they
might go about their business if they liked.

At the time when all this was going
on, I felt as mad against masters and
well-to-do folk generally as most of my
mates. But I've seen more clearly in later
times, as I've said here before, that working
men ought, at all events, to be grateful
to the folk who have saved money and
grown rich, for it's that which sets us all
to work. If there were no capital, which
common sense as well as the learned men
tell us is what comes from saving, there
would be nobody to pay us our wages, and
we should all soon go to the dogs. But
I didn't understand much of that in those
days and it is hard — much as I hate and
despise an envious, grudging spirit — it is
hard to see others as jolly as they please on
your earnings, when you and those dear to
you are close to starvation or the workhouse
door.

Well, the little daring died before the
week was out, and almost before ]maggie
had got over sorrowing for her pretty little

sister's death. It was trouble upon trouble.
But what could doctors do against bad
drainage, and poor food, and bad air ? The
light went out in that house, and it was
very dark indeed. The child had taken tome
more than their first-born, a boy ; and
she and I did love one another a bit.
Many's the time IVe spent the evening at
Davie's lodgings, walking up and down his
little room with that child in my arms when
she was teething and fretting, and her
father and mother were dead beat with
trouble and fatigue. I could hush her off
then better than either of 'em, and she
would put her dear little wasted arms
round my neck, and lay her face against
my cheek, and sometimes pat my head
and say, " Grow' boy, Jem," just as Davie
had taught her. So, when they told me
she was dead, I felt as I had never done
before. I could love her mother in that
child, too, without any sin. Bless her !
may God bless her ! But I know He has,
and I hope to see her some day as an angel
in heaven.

I thought at first their cliilcl's death
would bring Davie and his wife more
together again. Many a husband and
wife, I fancy, have forgiven one another
over the dead body of their child, and have
put away all those wretched little misunderstandings,
and jealousies, and resentments
w^hicli married folks seem to me often
to take special pains to nurse. When I
was once saying to Mr. Fletcher what a
pity it was man and wife should fall out so,
as some of 'em do, he answered, —

Yes, Woodford, but I believe it's just
because, while they have human infirmities,
they nevertheless love one another so much.
They wouldn't feel hurt at a stranger or
mere acquaintance saying and doing things
which make them very angry coming from
one so dear to them ;" and then he quoted
some beautiful poetry which I can't exactly
remember, but he said it was from Coleridge,
and it was about being angry with
those we love, and how it works in one's
mind. He added, too, that he thought it
was the same depth of feeling and interest

in religion that made religious differences
so fierce and bitters

To my great sorrow, however, the death
of their little pet, somehow, didn't make
Davie and Maggie understand each other
better. She, poor thing, was in great
trouble about it, and seemed hardly able to
keep her reason. I never knew what a
mother's love was before. Her trouble was
awful to see, and what it must have been
to bear, Heaven only knows. Certainly
Davie didn't, or he would have shown her
more true sympathy. But he didn't seem
able to help her or himself to look in the
right quarter for comfort and peace. And
then, you see, she couldn't help thinking
(and I don't wonder) that if she could have
got the poor child better food and change

^ The lines referred to are from Coleridge's
'' Christened," Part II. :—

Alas ! they had been friends in youth,
But-whispering tongues can poison truth j
And Constancy lives in realms above ;

And life is thorny, and youth is vain ;
And to be wroth with one we love

Doth work like madness in the brain."

of air when it first took ill, or if tliej could
have lived in more wholesome lodgings
from the first, it's life would have been
saved. And she told Davie outright, that
if he hadn't spent so much of his wages on
himself, they wouldn't have lost baby. Of
course he fired up at that, and said, —

Nonsense, wife. Why, I haven't spent
one shilling a week on beer and 'baccy all
the time I've been out of work, and not
eve shillings a week, I'm certain, when I
had plenty to do. Hang it, a fellow can't
spend less than that if he's to have any
company at all. Why, you wouldn't keep
him moping at home, would you, every
night all the week round ? Nor be shabby
to the landlord, nor sneak away when
others have treated him, and his turn to
stand treat comes round ? I tell you what,
Maggie, it's deuced hard to put all the
blame on me — "

But she only shook her head, and said,
between her sobs, —

'' Those shillings would have saved my
darling's life ! " Which, wherever the blame

lay, I think was too true ; but I could say
nothing to help matters. I thought Davie
was sometimes selfish in going to 'the
public," and in filling his pipe ; but I knew
how hard it was for a man to give up all
company, and the 'baccy at least deadens
the appetite ; and I thought, too, his wife
might sometimes have made him happier
when he was at home. But I did say to
him once, I remember, —

Davie, I can't help thinking you were
all the better, years ago, for being teetotal."


Well," said he, " if it's such a good
thing, why don't you join ? "

I don't mind," said I, " if you will."

But he shook his head. He was a very
sociable man, was Davie, and many a time
it cost him nothing to get his skin full,
bea-use he could sing a sons: and tell a
story better than most men I've met. But
then he was one of the readiest men I ever
knew to treat others. As long as he had
a sixpence in his pocket he'd never land
standing a pot for companions. I mind

hearing Mr. Fletcher once say that many a
good man, as times go, many a very useful,
public-spirited, aye, and generous fellow,
was rather selfish at heart. I couldn't
understand it at the time ; but something
about Davie's way of going on after he was
married made it clearer to me. But he did
join teetotal, poor fellow, a few weeks after
the meeting on the 10th April, 1848, and
told his wife he'd do so the night before.
However, that's neither here nor there,
just now. The loss of her child seemed to
make Maggie more hard and cold towards
her husband, and to look at him as the
cause of all her trouble. There was nothing
I could say or do to help make things
smooth, but I could say, without offending
either of them, and did say, that I thought
employers, and house-landlords, and the
governing classes too, as well as parish
vestries, had all much to answer for, as to
the death of our little darling, and of many
another just as well loved as she was. But
I ought to add that whatever Maggie's
manner to Davie might be (and it altered

strangely at times), lie was really kind to
lier, in general, in this way, during those
dark days. But I think — tho' I don't
quite like saying it — if, throughout their
married life, he had sometimes been more of
a man, she would always have been more
of a woman.

CHAPTER VIII.

It was in this year, 1S4S, with all its
storms and troubles, that a number of us
had one great happiness. We saw our beloved
leader receive a bit of the honour and
gratitude he had so well deserved. I think
it was one of the happiest days in my life
when I stood among: a arose number of
William Lovett's friends in the National
Hall to present him wi^li a public testimonial
of respect for his public services.,
It was, indeed, a grand sight, not to be
forgotten, though the great world and the
'' upper ten " knew and cared nothing
about it. An admirable address (which I
shall put in, if I can get room — if not,
it will be found, full length, in Lovett's
'memoirs' p. 333) was drawn up by

W. Johnson Fox, Esq., M.P., and signed on
belial of the subscribers by the barrister
I spoke of before, Mr. J. Humffrejs Parry
(who was chairman of the committee and
the meeting), and Mr. J. T. Mallet, who
had acted as secretary. We first had a
tea-meeting, and then came the presentation.
There was a handsome silver tea-service,
and a purse of 140/., all spread out
on a table on the platform before the chairman.
After they were handed to him by
Mr. Parry, with some earnest words, which
we all echoed, Lovett replied so gratefully
and modestly, and spoke in such a way
about what he wanted to do and see done
for his fellow-countrymen, that Bembridge
and others, who had been his best fellow-workers
for many a day, seemed more
overcome than they liked to show; and
when, as I looked at him standing up there,
and thought of the first time I had heard
him speaking out for us at the '' Crown and
Anchor," ten years before, and of all the opposition
he had met with, and all the quiet
perseverance with which he had worked on

through good and ill report, I felt a great
lump in my own throat, and I couldn't cry
'' Hear, hear," at the right places. But it
was a very happy evening, and I don't expect
ever to know another like it. I am
sure Mr. and Mrs. Lovett were well pleased.
Time wore on. Years passed. The
potatoes-rot came, and Sir Robert Peel
showed himself a great man. The repeal
of the Corn Laws took place at last. Sir
Robert received the usual reward of true
patriots, and Disraeli took the opportunity
to crucify him. But very soon things
began to mend. The workmen in the
building trades had been organizing their
forces, and such men as Kelso, Roberts,
and others, had been using their arguments
and eloquence to some effect. A general
application was at length agreed upon, and
when the employers again refused, the
strike actually did take place, and the men
took out their tools, much to the surprise
of the masters. They expected to have
had an easy victory again, and were disappointed.
I suppose the state of trade

would then really bear advance, for before
long it was agreed to, though not quite to
the extent the men had demanded. I was
always myself in favour of arbitration, and
if one party offered it and the other party
refused I used to think they must be in the
wrong; but I have since seen there are
cases in which both masters and men
might be justified in declining it, but I
cannot go any further into that question
here. In the present case the men got
most of what they wanted, and what I
think they were fairly entitled to ; so those
of them who, like Kelso and Roberts, were
comparatively steady men, felt the benefit
in their homes, as did their poor little
children; a good many, no doubt, merely
drank the harder, and their wives and kids
were no better ofi*, sometimes rather worse.
Just as it was in later days, when by combination
the] men in various trades got
shorter hours of work, it was a great blessing
to those who could use their leisure
well ; but as for the rest it only gave them
longer time for drinking, and many a wife

complained bitterly of the Saturday half-holiday,
and short-time movement, '' for'*
said they, " it only gives the fools more
time to drink." Things are a little better
now than they were then.

During these last few years Chartism
sometimes seemed only half alive, but ifc
made a few more grand spurts after the
French Revolution, in February, 1 848. All
the best life of it, however, had been crushed
out of the movement by the way in which
Lovett, and all Lovett's friends, were denounced
by the O'Connor party and its
organ, the Norther n Star. O'Connor himself
had been turning the attention of the
people very much away from agitation for
the Charter, as I said before, to his Land
scheme ; while Lovett, finding himself slandered
and suspected by great numbers of
the Chartists, had been directing his energies
to enabling the working classes to rise
in the moral, mental, and social scale, and
thus to gain their political rights by showing
that they both deserved them and were
prepared to make good use of them when

obtained. Why O'Connor and his friends
should have attempted to galvanize the
movement by the stupid piece of folly
enacted on Kennington Common, I hardly
know, unless it can be explained as far ashe
was concerned, like many of his other
actions, by his inordinate vanity and greed
of power and notoriety. But, of course,
there were others responsible for it as well
as O'Connor, and I don't know that one
was more to blame than another.

After Davie was married, and Kitty
Barber saw that her hopes in that quarter
were certainly quashed — at least for the
present — I heard she gave herself up to idle,
loose ways, and at length left her home and
the village in search of the handsome young
scoundrel, Mr. Haughton, who had first
attracted her attention when he came to
persecute Maggie Thatcher, and who had
paid her at different times for being his
model. She didn't care about him before
that for a very good reason, as has been
told ; but after Maggie's marriage she was
seen throwing herself about one evening

VOL. II. M

in a regular rage, and declaring that there
was a much finer young fellow would be
glad to have her company " than any of
those poor Broadfield louts;" and when,
soon after, she left the village, it was
shrewdly guessed that she had gone in
search of the aristocratic young artist, and
nobody heard anything more of her for a
long time. I could not, however, help thinking
of the poor, motherless creature sometimes,
and with a good deal of pity, for I
knew myself what it was to love in the wrong
place ; but then I was not going to throw
myself into profligate ways because I
couldn't get just the particular girl I
wanted ; and Kitty might have kept herself
respectable, and there was more than one
decent lad in Broadfield would have married
her if she would have had him.

Well, about the time that I am speaking
of — i. e., three or four months before the
Kennington Common row — who should
turn up in our neighbourhood but poor
Kitty herself, with tawdry finery and a
jaunty sort of air about her, that made

one's heart ache. Xotv, at this time, tlioiigh
wages were better and there was enough to
eat, I could not help seeing that things
were not going on as well between Maggie
and Davie as I could have wished, and I
was, therefore, particularly sorry to see that
wretched girl coming among us once more.
Davie was often a good deal vexed with his
wife, and yet could not explain what was
the matter; while she didn't understand
his complaining ; in fact, he kept them to
himself, I know, a good deal, perhaps as
much as he could ; and when he did speak
about what vexed him, she replied that he
was always finding fault. Sometimes I
thought that he had just worried her beyond
all patience by his fidgety and irritable
ways, so that she had become really unjust
to him ; while all their troubles had, of
course, not helped to sweeten and smooth
a temper that had never been one of the
best. Once, when there had been sharp
words passing between them, he said, " Ah,
Maggie, there's many a girl I could have
made a deal happier than I have you."
M 2

Well," she answered, " may be it's a
pity you didn't try, Davie." Lie was
just on the point of adding, *' There's
many a man might have made me a deal
happier than you;" but somehow she
didn't. She knew there were few men
who would have borne with her, and let her
have her own way as he had done; and
then all Davie's noble thoughts, and what
are called aspirations, had been very precious
to her, and, in fact, had been her life
for many a day; and once, I remember,
when the wife of one of his mates was complaining
to Maggie of her husband, and
saying, '' There now, you see, the men
don't try to make us companions, or tellus
anything that interests them, and then
they complain that they get no company
at home, and must always be looking for
it at the public-house," Maggie brightened
up, and said, with a beautiful bit of
pride and pleasure, *' Ah ! it's not so
with my man ; for he does talk to me
about what interests him, and it's a fine
thing to hear what he and Jem Woodford,

and Lovett and Bembridge, and others,
are trying to do."

But then one evening when Davie was
talking to me about his home, and saying
how desperately unhappy he often was
there, he went on to say, —

Well, you see, my Maggie's a fine creature,
and very fond I am of her; but still
she's a bit too tart and sharp for me after
all, and will always have it that she's in the
right, and that she never does wrong, oh,
no I never at all. Ah, if she would but
allow just for once in a way that she was
in the wrong by way of variety, I can't tell
you, old fellow, what a fool I should be about
her, for I do love her as it is, and then I
should love her too much, it may be ! "

"Ah, Davie," said I, trying to smile,
perhaps it's seeing how often you confess
your faults, and then go and do the
same again, that has set her agen sajdng
she's in the wrong." Still I knew she was
a bit too proud, may be.

But they u:ere fond of one another, and
no mistake, for all their falling out now and

then. And how very happy she used to
make him when it was all risfht, and he did
as he ought. But I think they began to
see what Mr. Fletcher once told them outright,
that loving one another, even as
truly as they did, by itself, won't carry
married folks safely through all their troubles
and tempers. There mast be the love
of God, he said, in their hearts, and better
help coming than they can give each other.

I believe, however, things would have all
worked round well with them at last if it
hadn't been for that unhappy girl, Kitty
Barber, finding us out, and coming down
into our neighbourhood like an ill-bird of
prey. There is no doubt Davie had been
once very much and foolishly smitten with
her, and when he saw her again I fancy b
bit of his old folly returned. But it was
something worse than folly now he was
married.

Now, when Maggie saw the girl in that
miserable state in which she first turned
up in our neighbourhood, I know her heart
yearned towards her ; and she forgave and

forgot all the wrong she herself had suffered
from her. She gave her bits of clothes, and
took her nice food, and pinches of tea, and
tried to get her work. But after a bit she
saw a deal further into Kitty's past life
and her present notions than she liked;
and before very long she began to give up
all hope of the girl's leading a steady life.
Then she noticed, too, something that made
her more unhappy still.

Some folks would say that when Davie
first saw Kitty Barber had come into his
neighbourhood again, and knew that he
would like to go and chat with her sometimes,
just as he used to do when he was
vexed with Maggie, he ought, as an honest
man, to have said to himself he'd never go
near her, and not pass a word with her,
or even know her if they met. But, in
the first place, I think he was so good and
innocent himself, he couldn't believe Kitty
was as bad as she really was by this time,
just as he couldn't believe Feargus O'connor
was either altogether fool or knave ;
and, in the next place, he couldn't help

feeling a deal of pity for her ; and remembering
the old school-days at Broad-field,
when she was the pretty little innocent
Puss-in-Boots," whom most of the boys
were in love with. Of course the poor jade
saw quickly enough what he thought about
her, and made the most of it.

I am sure Davie was true to his wife in
heart as well as in act, even though they
too often fell out about trifles ; but one
never can tell what will happen if a fellow
goes on, as the poets say, like a moth
playing round a candle, which was what
Davie did. Of course it could not but
make Maggie sorry to see her husband
chatting and laughing Avitli the girl after
she had read the changes that had gone on,
and read them much more truly than her
husband. She would have done anything
on earth, in reason, herself, to try and bring
back the lost sheep to better ways, but she
knew too well it smacked of no good to
any one that Davie and Kitty should be
going on as if nothing had happened. So,
as I said, it made her very jealous and unhappy

to see them together, and with good
reason. Then, before long, she told Davie
her mind, perhaps in rather too domineering
a way, and he didn't like that, naturally;
and though he didn't say much, he was
vexed, and didn't alter his conduct a bit.
So Kitty cherished wicked hopes, and grew
bolder. Then I spoke a word or two. But
it was no good. Things were getting worse
and worse in more ways than one, when
one night Davie came to my room full of
trouble, and quite excited.

''By the Lord," he said, 'you're right
about that girl. She's a bad 'un, and no
mistake."

I said nothing:, for it wouldn't do to tell
a friend at a time like that, that he might
and ouo^ht to have seen the truth of what
his wife told him long ago. Presently he
broke out again : —

And oh, Jem ! Jem ! she says she owes
her fall to me. Tell me that's a lie, for
heaven's sake ! "

Davie," said I, rather sternly I suppose,
for I began to feel it was no time for saying

soft things, '' I believe it was a much finer
sort of chap than you who has most to
answer for in that girl's ruin. But I believe
that you have a deal to answer for,
too, and you ought to know it."

He started, and looked in my face, half
wildly, half fiercely, as if he'd been stung.

"AYhat do you mean by that, then?"
said he, at length.

'' Can't you remember, Davie, how I
warned you in old days that all that flirting
and fooling and romping were as bad for
her as for you ? "

The man hid his face in his hands, and
his whole frame shook.

Break with her, Davie, altogether.
Promise me — or, what's better, promise
Goal — you'll never speak to that girl again
for twelve months. There's no middle
course, and you may be sure it's not you
that can now do her any good. Help Maggie
to get her into a Penitentiary or Refuge,
and I'll give you every penny I can spare
towards it ; but leave her to the women.
Will you promise ? "

'' God helping me, I will, Woodford. . . .
and may He bless you for speaking out
plain. Isn't it strange how one's early
follies or sins find one out years after? "

Maggie's prayers that night, I believe,
had a deal of thankfulness in them ; and
next day she set to work to see about the
Refuge. Kitty was more willing to go toit
now, and we hoped she'd take a right
turn. She seemed to do so for a time, and
then the ladies got her a situation in service.
I felt pretty sure that, in a year's
time, she would either be reformed or have
gone altogether to the bad ; and, in either
case, would be out of Davie's way.

CHAPTER IX.

My friends went along happily now, for
trade had mended, and Davie had plenty
to do at fair wages, and there was not so
much danger of the money running out as
fast as it came in. What Mao^o:ie had said
about his going to " the public," after their
little darling's death, didn't seem to do
much good at the time ; and at first, even
out of mere bravado, and just to show he
wasn't tied to her apron-strings, I suppose,
he went nearly as often to the " Jolh^
Sawyers " as before, yet that didn't last
long. I told him he was a big fool, for I
lost all patience with him, and he took it
from me, tho' he wouldn't from his wife ;
and I think he only wanted an excuse forgiving
up altogether. The landlord and

his wife at the " pub " were sorry, I daresay,
to miss us both, for I said I'd give it
up if he would. But it was a rare good
job for Maggie and their boy. Of course
I helped as well as I could to make the
evenings go off pleasantly, and so did two
or three of our shipmates, who'd come
and spend an hour or two with us, when
we'd talk, and laugh, and sing, and were
uncommonly cheerful together. But the
room was very small and we kept the boy
awake sometimes, till he'd begin to cry.
So, now and then, we went out to a music-hall
(which, however, rather disgusted
Davie, and me, too, for that matter), or to
the theatre, or to a temperance lecture and
entertainment, or cheap concert. The
Mechanics' Institution in Southampton-buildings
helped us on famously, and Davie
and I would take it in turns to take care of
the little lad, to let Maggie go now and
then to a lecture or concert there. It had
been a great help to me in former days by
its classes, and now there was a good deal
of sensible recreation in it.

So it came about that Maggie softened
towards her husband, and all the best part
of her nature bloomed out, and a bit of the
old fun and sparkling sauciness of early
days showed itself, when she got away
from thinking of the little one who would
never laugh with her again. It was quite
pretty and touching to see Maggie trying to
make Davie talk and laugh as he used to door,
perhaps, putting a shilling in his hand
and telling him to go and see a play, and
come back and tell her all about it. But
he and I spent some hours every week over
our Euclid and " The Builder's Practical
Directory," or " Nicholson's Carpentry."

Davie had taken Maggie first of all
alone, soon after they were married, and
then, with their two children, more than
once to the tea-gardens where they had
spent such a delightful day when courting.
But after her little girl's death Davie
noticed she never liked going there again.
So he took her now and again during those
happy years I'm speaking of, for a run
down to Margate or Brighton, and they

used to come back looking so brielit and
jolly, it was a sight to see them. Then
there Twas another dear little Q»irl came to
bless their home, and take the place of the
one ozone away.

So we were all getting along very comfortable,
so to sap, for some time. Davie
got money fast now, for he was always
very quick, and had learnt all I could
teach him, and more, too. He had mastered
thoroughly what was long a sore
puzzle to me, study as I would. I mean
hand-railing. But the men who can do
this and other difficult branches of their
trade, are rather shy, as one might expect,
of letting theu^ mates see what they are
about when doing it ; and so I never got
any help from any of them except Kelso,
nor a chance of learning that trick in the
shop. I had to pay a brother chip half-a-crown
a lesson to teach it to me.

Another think' I was uncommon o^lad of
was, that about this time Mr. Fletcher
came to London with his amiable wife,

and settled with that congregation in
Kentish Town, which, as I said before, he
came up to visit. So we used all to attend
his chapel regularly, and a deal of good I
think he did us, and many more. Maggie
was never what you may call enthusiastic
about religion or clergymen, but she often
seemed to like going to a place of worship,
and she told me once some of her happiest
hours were at Mr. Fletcher's chapel of a
Sunday evening. We hadn't been able to
feel altogether at home, like, in any church or
chapel before became; and yet I had become
more and more sure one can't get along
rightly, either for this world or the next,
without the parsons. We seem to want
the help of some one who isn't always
being worked and worried with the cares
of a business or trade. But then, as B em-bridge
made Mr. Fletcher see years ago,
working men can only believe heartily in
those parsons who try to make this world
better for them to live in, and not merely
prepare them, as they call it, for another.
I remember hearing a friend of mine telling

some of us one evening what showed
pretty correctly working men's notion of
the kind of men the clergy should be.
He said he had proposed, as a subject of
discussion to a number of hard-headed
Lancashire men, the question whether lawyers,
doctors, or parsons were of most use
to society. " And how do you think,"
said my friend, 'the men settled it?"
One of us answered, he supposed they said
the lawyers, but most of us guessed it was
the doctors won the day.

isis, they agreed at last that the parsons
were the most useful, because if they
did their duty the others wouldn't be
wanted." We all laughed and agreed with
the Lancashire lads.

Mr. Fletcher, when he got back into the
kind of company and social intercourse he
had always been used to as a young man,
never forgot his resolution to help workingmen
to get the same rational and refining
enjoyments which the middle-class folk
have so largely, but of which the working
class used hardly to get a taste. The

VOL. II. N

purposes lie formed in his dark days at
East Leigh for the social enjoyment and
political elevation of that class I could see
were seldom absent from his thoughts, and
he worked hard in various ways to carry
them out, which certainly made those
workmen, who saw what he was doing,
take to his preaching in a way that is not
as common as it might be.

He took warmly to Davie, and Davie to
him. Poor Roberts had a deal on his mind,
and not a little on his conscience, and he
sadly wanted a man like Mr. Fletcher to
guide and comfort him. Maggie, too,
found Mr. Fletcher a great help, and grew
to be very fond of him. Her temper
mended with more sunshine, and we, or
at least they, might have gone on very
happily I think for many years if only
Davie hadn't been naturally of such a restless,
roving disposition. If I wasn't altogether
at rest in mind and heart, and had
to work desperately hard sometimes to
blow off the extra steam, it was hardly to
be wondered at : and sometimes I used to

think very seriously of leaving London for
good and settling down in Birmingham or
Sheffield, and looking out for a wife, as in
both places I had warm friends — (I was
glad enough afterwards I didn't go). But
Davie had no excuse for being fidgety.
He honoured and admired Lovett, and
Bembridge, and Moore, and others, and
worked with them at the National Hall
both weekdays and Sundays as heartily
as I did. He had the bonniest, bravest,
longest wife, and a beautiful little boy
and baby to brighten his home when he
was in it. But he never did know' when
he was well off, nor could he be content
with anything, nor stick to anything for
long at a time. Like many a man I've
noticed, after having once tasted the
sweets of popular applause and all the
excitement of public meetings, he never
lost a hankering for it again. It was
partly this, I believe, and partly a longing
to have the freedom of a country life and to
be his own master that made him listen to
Feargus O'Connor's rubbishy Land Scheme,
N 2

and take shares in it, though his wife declared
she never could go and " live in a
dismal, sticks allotment ground, miles
away from all the world." But that restless
devil in poor Davie's mind kept goading
him on ; and so it happened that at the
beginning of 1848 he was once more hand
and glove with some of O'Connor's tools
and dupes, and was a marked man among
them. I've reason to say " a marked
man," for the Government were watching
these men even before the French Revolution
of February, '48, but ten times more
closely after it. Not that I mean all the
men still working, then, with O'Connor
were his tools. Several honest, able men,
among others Samuel Kidd, delegate from
Oldham to the second convention, John
Lowry, and Bronterre O'Brien, ought to
be honourably mentioned. Ernest Jones,
also, a young gentleman of good family, a
barrister by profession, had thrown himself
into the movement, sacrificing all his prospects
and position in life, with a genuine
zeal and in a martyr spirit, deserving of

grateful remembrance by working men,
however mistaken his conduct may bethought.
There was a very able, honest
young fellow, too, whose acquaintance I
was glad to make about this time — a
thorough-going Chartist, but with a mind
capable of valuing a great many good
things beside the Charter, and who was
working quietly then, as he has been doing
all his life since, more or less, for the real
elevation of his class. He wasn't much
known then, but has been widely known
and honoured since — I mean George Lodger;
a working shoemaker, and a good and true
man, according to my judgment and that
of many others. His death, a year ago,
at a comparatively early age, and before he
could help his class by getting into the
House of Commons, was a real misfortune,
as I have heard several M.p's honestly
say.

But there, if I'm to speak of all the fine
fellows I've known in this Chartist movement
I shall never have done ; so, to
return.

This second Convention, which consisted
of forty-seven delegates from London, and
large towns in England, and from Edinburgh,
Glasgow, Aberdeen, Paisley, and
Dundee, in Scotland, assembled in London
on April 4, 1848, at the John-street Institution,
near Tottenham Court-road, and
brought heart-rending, and in some cases
alarming, accounts of the state of their districts.
They were thoroughly in earnest,
for the most part, but the plans of the more
sensible men among them were constantly
thrown out of gear by O'Connor's bombast
and extravagance, which stimulated the
younger and more reckless spirits to foolish
or dangerous words and acts.

The Convention pushed forward its preparations
for the great meeting to be held
on Kennington Common on the 10th, from
which a procession was to go across 
to the House of Commons
to present the National Petition. 0' Condor
declared he would be in the front rank of
it, '' and then let the military shoot if they
dare." Much alarm was evidently caused

among the bigwigs at the prospect of this
procession, and there was a rare stir in
our shop and in a great many others, when
one man after another came in breathless
with the news that the Government had
forbidden the procession as illegaL The
meeting itself was not to be interfered with
if peaceably conducted. Many of the
leaders of the movement believed — and
O'Connor encouraged the belief at one
time, while assailing it at another — that
the Ministers would give way as to the
procession. However, the preparations for
resisting it by force went rapidly on.
Special constables were sworn in to the
number of fifty or sixty thousand. Troops
were collected, and it was quite evident to
all, but those who were besotted with their
own headstrong fancies, that a fearful loss
of life would ensue if the procession attempted
to force its way. O'Connor had
to play a double game.

'bravo, bravo, old Feargus!" shouted
Davie Roberts, bursting into the tap-room
of our " house of call," where a number of

US were gathered on the Saturday evening
hear and discuss the exciting questions
of the day. For though I stood aloof,
with my chief, from all that business —
Convention, Kennington meeting, ]procession,
and all — I was desperately anxious
to see how things would go, knowing too
well that the cause we loved so dearly was
in more deadly danger from its friends,
both sham and genuine, than even from its
worst enemies.

'bravo!" shouted Davie, as he
flourished the Star. '' Here's that blessed
old boy telling us he can no longer dare to
bid us trait /" He almost shrieked out this
last word. " No, no, no more waiting.
He says, ' I tell you in my soul I believe
the propitious hour has arrived when our.
long suffering and martyrdom may be
crowned with victory.' That is our noble
O'Connor's appeal to all true Chartists."
And here he unbuttoned his coat, and
threw a heavy horse-pistol on the table
with a clang that made the room ring
again, *' And these," here he flung a rusty

pike-leach beside the pistol, " are my
answers to this appeal. Brothers, are you
ready !" and he looked round as if he were
a general at the head of an army. " The
hour has come ! " A dead silence followed.

The men were taken by surprise, but nota
single cheer was raised. It was what
they call the thin edge between the sublime
and the ridiculous. But in another
moment there might laye been a storm of
applause, and then half of 'em in gaol next
day. I was thinking of Jem Burt out in
the penal settlements, and of the poor girl
who should have been his wife ; and then I
thought of Maggie, and my head seemed

all in a flame But I got up a smile,

and said quietly, " General Eoberts — you're
a d d ninny ! ^^

Then there was a burst of laughter. In
an instant he rushed at me like a tiger;
but two or three caught and held him, and
danger from the Bobbies was over. The men
laughed all the more at his rage, because I
don't think they had ever heard me swear
before in their company. Sometimes they

used to call me '' Quaker Jem." Oaths,
after all, are a coarse kind of lingo, and I
don't hear gentlemen use them now-a-days.

Don't be fierce, old fellow ? " I cried ;
'' but just read that other letter in the
Star from your valiant chief, and then
knock me down, if you please."

Davie snatched the paper from my
hands, as I pointed to the memorable
letter, which, with such extraordinary
effrontery, appeared in the very same
issue as the one from which Davie had
just been quoting.

"Read! Read it out!" cried several
voices. But Davie, when he had hastily
glanced at it, stood dumb-foundered. So
then I read about O'Connor's abuse of
the mouthing patriots " who talked of
going armed to the meeting; read how
he sneered at the folly of '' raw recruits ; "
and then how he bid the people beware
of countenancing them. I never saw a
poor fellow so chap-fallen as our enthusiastic
friend, and when he got up,
pocketed his artillery, and flung himself

with a savage oath out of the room, I felt
very sorry for him, but hoped he and
others were saved from transportation.

This, indeed, was a very real danger;
for the night before in the House of
Commons, the Home Secretary, Sir
George Grey, had moved for leave to
bring in a Bill for the better security
of the Crown and Government, which
converted " open and advised speaking
of seditious language " from a misdemeanour
into felony, punishable with
transportation. That was hot work.
But the French Revolution of February,
and the ease with which it was done,
threw both '' the rung classes," as they
were often called, and the poor suffering
worries, off their balance. The Bill
passed the House of Commons the following
Wednesday (April 12), by a majority
of 295 to 40, and the House of
Lords, unanimously, the following day.

In spite of the Government proclamation
that the procession would be illegal,
the chief members of the Convention declared

their intention to join in it, with
the exception of Bronterre O'Brien, w4io
thought the course the Convention was
adopting most mischievous. I was at the
meeting in the Chartist Hall, Lambeth,
on the Sunday, when he gave in his resignation
as a member of the Convention.
He was badly received, his explanations
interrupted by groans and hisses, and at
last he had to sit down. As I watched
his fine features working with bitter
emotion, I couldn't help thinking how
little able the people generally seem to
distinguish their best and wisest friends
from sham and shoddy. O'Brien was a
man who, under happier political arrangements,
and, I suppose, with better training,
might have played a noble part in
the great political drama of the day. He
longed as much as any of the Convention
to see justice done to our class, but he
thought, and I believe rightly, that the distress
among those who sent the members
of it up to London was goading them onto
ruinous courses, while three or four

who cared little for the people compared
with their own power and vanity, were
swaggering and strutting away at the
poor fools' expense.

Coming away from that Lambeth meeting,
who should I meet but Rufford, who
showed up very friendly. A leading member
of the Convention joined us, and said
that O'Brien had " got Ms gruel, which
he well deserved." Eufford said '' Bosh ! "
and the discussion got warm, especially
when Eu:fford spoke his mind about
O'Connor.

''Do you really suppose," said he,
that either Feargus or Hill" (the editor
of the Star), " or half-a-dozen more of
their friends, really want the Charter
carried, and the agitation ended ? "

The other man stopping, faced us, and
said, with a good deal of warmth, " Now,
hang it, man, why what interest can
Feargus have in keeping up the game, I
should like to know ? "

What interest ! What do you suppose
they are making every week by the

Northern Star ? And what do you guess
its circulation would be if the Charter
were carried ? "

The man seemed planted for a second,
then said, "Why, they declare they are
losing by every issue of that paper ! ''

'rand do you believe them? You
know the circulation is about 40,000 a
week. You're talking nonsense."

The man seemed to have got something
to think about, and went off presently,
only saying, '' Well, you're a
darned grumbler; and if O'Connor does
make money out of us, he gives it back
freely."

Yes," said I, as the other man went
off with his friends, "he is generous,
often, in giving, I do believe."

'' He only gives a little," growled Effort,
" that he may get back twice as
much — bait for the hook — nothing more."

May be. But see how, over and over
again, he has paid lots of tin for the defence
of our Chartist prisoners."

Seems a lot to you, perhaps. What

are a few hundreds to the thousands he
must have been netting, not merely by the
sale of the stain but by advertisements ?
Ah, my boy, advertisements are the food
that makes the mare to go. And what a
heap of gold-dust serial papers must make
by 'em." I respectfully assented.

*' That's the worst of all newspapers,"
continued Eufford, as we walked on.
"They are great trading firms or companies,
and can't afford to do much more
than look to their dividends. People pin
their faith on a favourite newspaper, and
fancy that editors are only actuated by a
patriotic desire for the public welfare. I
suppose some of them are in earnest, and
do their best to hold out true lights. But
when a paper has got a large circulation,
depend upon it, dividends carry the day."

And the more rowing and desperate
moves, and striking and dangerous incidents,
and quarrels, and horrid crimes,
and general devilry of all sorts, the better
for the dividends." '' That's about the
size of it, Jem ! But when will you come

and see me and my old woman ? "
'' After the procession. Good-night." It
was a comfort to meet one man who had
eyes in his head, and wasn't trying to
stand topsy-turvy.

Monday, April 10, 1848, came at last.
. . O'Connor and the Convention had
made all their preparations, and the Duke
had also made his — the one for irretrievable
disgrace and failure, the other for
calm, peaceful, and triumphant success.
Mr. Fletcher told me that when he was
hurrying in the early morning to his place
of gathering, appointed for the special
constables of his district, he met an old
friend, an officer of the Blues, then quartered
at Hounslow, leading his troops into
a timber-yard near 'Westminster-bridge.
He noticed the friend hadn't got his usual
troop-horse, and his heart misgave him,
for he knew by that token bloody work was
expected, and the favourite old charger
was kept safe in quarters. Neither officers
nor privates much liked the prospect before
them on the morning of the 10th.

'' Better fight a thousand foreign foes,"
was the thought in many a brave heart, I
believe, *' than a score of one's own countrymen'*


VOL. II.

CHAPTER X.

The sun dawned that day on a strange
spectacle — one of which all men should
have felt bitterly ashamed, it seems to me,
and yet one of which they might also feel
amazingly proud. It was a bitter shame
that nearly twenty years after all classes,
except a few peers and Tories, had stood
shoulder to shoulder to wring the nation's
liberties from corrupt and certainly despotic
hands, the middle and upper classes
should have allowed so great a breach to
take place between them and the toiling
millions, that it could be possible for the
country to have been more than once
during that period on the brink of a bloody
revolution. Buff if there was that danger,
it was something to be proud of that fifty

or sixty thousand London citizens should
have stood quietly that day in the streets,
armed only with wooden truncheons, ready
to fight, bleed, and perhaps die, to uphold
the majesty of law and civil order, and to
say by that conduct, political reform was
to be won in this country only by peaceful
means, not bloodshed.

The 10th of April scene, as I read it,
was practically the final protest of Chartists
against political and social wrongs, delivered
in the stupidest, clumsiest manner
that can be conceived ; and the protest of
middle-class comfortable citizens against
being disturbed in their comfort, or hurried
into reforms faster than their judgment
desired, by the threat of physical force.

So the pavements of the great London
thoroughfares swarmed that livelong day
with noblemen, gentlemen, clerks (in great
force), tradesmen, lawyers, doctors, architects,
and artists, with Louis Napoleon
among the rest, and a few working men,
all sworn in as special constables to preserve
the Queen's peace. The new police


were here, there, and everywhere. Troops
lead been ordered up from Chatham and
Windsor, as well as from Hounslow, and
even from Chichester, Winchester, and
Dover. Horse and foot, with batteries of
artillery from Woolwich, were quietly
drawn out before noon from the yards and
hiding-places where they had been concealed
until the Chartist multitude had
crossed the bridges, and they then occupied
every pass by which that multitude could
return in organized array. All the public
buildings were garrisoned. The mounted
police had broadswords and pistols. The
ostensible object of the gathering on
Kennington Common was to pass resolutions
in favour of the Charter, and
denouncing the Government, and then to
return in force to present their huge
petition to Parliament. Whether this was
all that the Chartist leaders, or O'Connor
himself, intended to do, will never be
known. My own belief is that Feargus's
vanity and ambition had been stung into
restless activity by the recent French

Revolution, and that, fired with a great
longing to play some conspicuous part, he
simply collected the largest assembly in
his power. What was to come after he
left to the chapter of accidents, quite ready
to ride into a dictatorship atop of a great
wave of bloodshed, if that should be the
fortune of the day, but certainly not
having any deep-laid plans for such wickedness.
Else why lead an unarmed multitude
over the bridges, and thereby give the
Government power to wring the neck of
an insurrection as easily as a housewife
kills a fowl ?

All that was left for him, at any rate, todo
when he came back from an interview
with Mr. Mayne, Chief Commissioner of
Ponce, to which he was summoned at the
Horns Tavern, and had mounted his
waggon on the common, and looked over
the vast sea of upturned faces, was to
inform his bewildered followers that the
Government had refused to allow the
petition to be presented by the multitude,
or to permit them to re-cross the bridges,

except in twos and threes, or to cross
Westminster and Waterloo Bridges at all.
He lead been welcomed, Davie told us,
with ringing cheers by the enthusiastic
thousands as he rose, but many were ready
to hoot at him with yells of disappointed
rage when they found that, after all his
vapouring and preparations, O'Connor had
pledged himself to Mr. Mayne that the
procession should be abandoned. But his
remarkable eloquence and power of deluding
his followers were never more plainly
shown. Even Davie was again carried
away by it. He wrapped up the painful
and humiliating facts so neatly that you
might have thought, as the majority did,
that he had gained a great victory. He
began by saying, " My children, you were
industriously told that 1 would not be
amongst you to-day. Well, I am here.
(Loud applause.) I have received more
than a hundred letters entreating me not
to attend this meeting, for that, if I did,
my life would be sacrificed. But I would
rather be stabbed to the heart than resign

my proper place among mj children."
(Tremendous cheering.) He implored
them not to ruin their great cause by any
imprudence, told them of the blessings lie
was preparing for them by his land scheme,
asked all who would act with prudence,
and carry the charter, to hold up hands,
when, of course, a huge forest of horny
hands went up, and he concluded, amidst
deafening cheers, with declaring that,
though he might be stretched on the rack,
he would smile terror out of countenance,
go on conquering, and to conquer,
&c. And Davie cheered with the
loudest !

For in spite of all that Maggie, Mr.
Fletcher, and I could say — in spite even
of his immense disgust on Saturday night
at O'Connor's second letter in the Star —
Davie Roberts vowed he would march with
his brother Chartists to Kennington Common
and Westminster Hall that day. And
march with them to the Common he did,
though he had consented rather sulkily,
and only when he saw Maggie in tears, to

leave his pocket artillery at home. Lucky
for him that he did.

But though he was actually fool enough,
by his own confession, to join in cheering
that wonderfully silly rot of O'Connor's,
yet, when the excitement was over, and he,
with others, was feeling all the bitterness
and humiliation of his position, as they
tramped wearily and dismally home again,
the whole matter began to appear in a
different light, and they asked each other
what O'Connor's conduct and speech

really meant Men cursed him that

day for a fool, and a coward into the bargain,
who had been ready to die for him
the day before.

The sittings of the Convention, however,
continued for a time with considerable
spirit, as did the agitation generally, in
spite of the '' fiasco " (which, I believe,
means '' muddle ") of April 10. For the
terrible distress under which the working
classes were suffering, combined with the
revolutions going forward on the Continent,
was quite enough to keep the fires

going. Men in the manufacturing districts
felt, and constantly said, that it would be
better to die by shot and steel, fighting for
the Charter, which they thought alone
could remedy the evil, than by the lingering
death of starvation and disease. Large
open-air meetings were held in many
places ; one in Manchester, on Sunday,
April 17, was attended by 100,000 persons;
another at Halifax by 80,000 — surrounded
by the military. At Aberdeen, amidst the
cheers of 10,000 people, a resolution was
passed for forming a National Guard,
which was also resolved on at a Chartist
delegate meeting for Lancashire and Yorkshire.
Ireland was on the edge of rebellion.
Physical-force demonstrations took place
in Yorkshire, at Bradford, Willesden, and
Single. A desperate fight took place at
Bradford between the people, the special
constables, and the police. At last the
military had to be called out, and not till
after that did the fight end. Collisions
took place also at Oldham, Manchester,
Blackstone Edge, Ashton (where a policeman,

named Bright, was eliot dead, and the
military where called out), and other places.
Dreary work ! But in the midst of all
this misery and hullabaloo the Rochdale
pioneers were quietly talking about '' Cooperation,"
in a little room, I'm told, eight
feet square ; and a few other long heads
were discussing the nationalization of the
land reform, the currency lawes, establishment
of national loan systems through
State banks, exchange marts, reform of
the Poor Lawes, &c. Dissensions, meanwhile,
of course broke out among the leading
Chartists, while O'Connor's influence
had begun to wane from April 10. Most
of the physical-force men were still
thoroughly in earnest, and they saw that
he was not. Resolutions of confidence in
him were got up in all quarters, and where
trumpeted, exaggerated, or fabricated in
the columns of the Star. But, as Lovett
said to me one night, they couldn't stop
the ebb tide. O'Connor was right, of
course, in abandoning the procession and
in not telling the people to come armed.

but then lie should never have blustered
about forcing it through. To crown their
discomfiture the enormous National Petition
was found to contain so large a
number of fictitious and coarse ridiculous
signatures that no end of ridicule was
poured on the whole movement.

Amidst all the confusion and uproar the
Convention, in spite of the opposition of
O'Connor and his supporters, had resolved
on holding a " National Assembly," into
which it should merge, and which met
accordingly in London, on May 1, with
twenty-eight delegates, a much smaller
number, let it be observed, than formed
the Convention,— exactly the same number,
curiously enough, as that of the first
Rochdale Co-operators. But the resemblance
doesn't go much further. What a
huge difference, I've often thought, there
was in the value of the work those two
sets of twenty-eight were doing about that
time. Look at the consequences, after

a bit.

Yet I'm not one who says no good was

done bj all that physical-force foolery.
Anyhow the Chartist agitation, physical
force and all, made the Parliament people
and governing folks generally open their
eyes and think vrhat had to be done to
better the state of the working classes.
The members were, many of them, able,
earnest men ; but the schism caused by
O'Connor's opposition weakened its influence,
and the divisions in the Chartist
ranks became more and more apparent.
The old quarrel about moral and physical
force consumed much time; so did that
about O'Connor and the Star. Ernest
Jones and Julian Harney were informed
by Feargus that if they sat in the Assembly
they must give up their appointments on
the Star. Hard lines that, but no help for
it. Ernest Jones threw up the Star and
stuck to the Assembly, only to see it
crumble away and perish. Harney renounced
the Assembly and kept his berth
on the newspaper.

On July 3, O'Connor brought forward,
at last, his motion for the Charter in the

House of Commons, and got just fifteen
il.P.'s to vote for it. After this lie
appears to have " coquetted," and something
more, with the movement which
Joseph Hume had started for household
suffrage, triennial Parliaments, &c., after
having for years denounced and driven
from the agitation every man who on the
slightest pretence cotild be accused of
aiming at anything (even education) except
the " Six Points."

"Here's something else to make you
stare, Mr. Lovett," said I, one evening,
■^vhen I found him shaking his head
gloomily over the Chartist dissensions,
and when I had just got the proof of
O'Connor's conduct in that household
suffrage business. " What do you say to
tHs?" and I shall never forget to my
dying day the look of scorn that came
over" his fine face as he read the facts.
But the scorn soon passed, and then there
followed such a look of sadness, and a sigh
from the very depths of his heart. Poor
William Lovett ! Noble Lovett ! you bore

the shame and sorrow of your class, if ever
man did; but as all great leaders I fear
have had to do, and will yet for many a
day. But you didn't live in vain.

O'Connor's retribution, however, was
fast coming, and as I want to have done
with him, I'll just forestall one or two
events, and mention here that soon after
this time he publicly informed the Chartist
body that he intended retiring into private
life. Whether he really meant this, or
wanted to get a general vote of renewed
confidence, I can't say. But the result
was crushing. Not a single locality sent
a resolution to the star on the subject.
And though a third Convention was held
in March, 1849, containing a number of
first-rate men, and he was elected to it
with Gr. J. Mantle by the Manchester
Chartists, every one noticed how little influence
he had in it, how seldom he came
to its sittings, and low his whole appearance
began to foretell that melancholy
break-up of his mind which afterwards
came upon him. Then followed the discreditable

exposures and bitter attacks on
him connected with the gigantic delusion
and even frauds of the land scheme, so
that at last even his worst enemies misbehave
felt pity for such a downfall and
disgrace. And this reminds me I heard
Mr. Fletcher or some one say once in the
pulpit, that persons who think too much
of themselves, and about themselves, from
Nebuchadnezzar downwards, were always
more liable than other folks to go off their
heads. Queer, if it be so. But I've
noticed it myself, more than once, and it
certainly was so in regard to poor Feargus.
He died in confinement not long after, and
I've no doubt he was dealt with more
mercifully afterwards than some of us
would then have treated him, for ice could
not make fair allowances for him. But
the evil that he did lived after him, as, I
believe, Shakespeare says, and we felt it
for many a day. And now I've done with
him. High time. But before going back to
the summer and autumn of 1848, I may as
well mention that this third Convention

was distinguished by its taking up a
number of important reforms required
for the social improvement of the condition
of the people.

What do you think of this new convention,
Mr. Rufford ? " I remember asking
him when I went one night to take
tea with him at Greenwich, about three
weeks after it had assembled.

'think!" cried he. " AYliy, that it's
the most sensible creature that's turned up
for many a day. Look here, Jem ! These
lads are beginning to see the root of the
evils the country suffers from, and that
they must go for social improvements as
well as for political rights. What a
splendid programme they are getting out !
Those ' nine clauses ' of theirs embrace all
the great fundamental changes required.
But any good that comes in that direction
we shall owe to noble E-obert Owen."

The clauses are a move in the right
direction. And though I don't go with
them all, myself, by a long shot, you
know, it's a great thing to have them fairly

trotted out, and held up for consideration.
But don't you think there's a deeper bit of
wisdom in this move than even what you
mentioned? "

'' May be. What is it ? " said he, stopping
a hunch of bread and butter on its way
to his mouth.

'' Why, I begin to see that political reform
(which, as Lovett taught us long ago,
is only a means to an end) is far more
likely to be won when the people see
certain definite advantages which are to
come from it. Englishmen don't care for
abstract propositions, I fancy, or changes
of any sort, till they see the need of
'em."''

'upright you are, my boy. (But, don't
you see, my missus thinks you should take
a bit more of her turn-over.) And I'll
tell you another thing. The swells who
hold the ribbons and tool us along with
plenty of whip-cord sometimes, mil be far
more likely to give us good social reforms
through having had the fright of these
agitations and outbreaks."

VOL. II.

They'll begin to see they must do
something, sou. mean; and if we ask for
what is reasonable, they'll be glad enough
to give it."

"Right again. Two to you, old fellow."


[I may as well give here the clauses just spoken of,
to show how much more the leaders of the working
classes were then thinking of particular social reforms
than merely the points of the Charter. They seem tome
now a curious mixture of folly and sense, and were
as follows : — The nationalization of the land ; the
restoration of Common, Church, and Crown lauds to
the people, and the empowering the state to purchase
other lands; the separation of Church and State ;
national, secular, gratuitous, and compulsory education
; the right of co-operative societies to registration
and enrolment; the State to open credit banks for
associated bodies of working men ; the right of the
poor when out of work to employment ; all taxes to
be levied on land and accumulated property; the
interest paid on the National Debt to be regarded as
repayment of the capital ; every citizen to be allowed
military training; abolition of capital punishments.]

CHAPTER XI.

I MUST now go back to the miserable work
that was going on during the previous
autumn of 1848, and which led to consequences
more melancholy for those I loved,
and so for me, than anything I had ever
known before, or am likely, I hope, to
know again. I keep putting off coming toit,
for it was a dismal time.

My evenings during that autumn, I remember,
were generally pretty well occupied
in working with Lovett, Bembridge,
Xeesom, and the rest, at the National Hall,
or, now and then, with teaching a young-apprentice
in our shop how to set out his
work, &c. Sometimes I had a pleasant
chat with Mr. and Mrs. Roberts (though
not very often — they were so busy), and
p 2

also, as I have just said, with an old friend
like Rumford. But on Saturday evenings I
generally went to the '' Sawyers' Arms " for
an hour or two, to talk over the week's
news.

One night, Davie, who was often with
us, came in immensely excited, with several
of his shipmates, called for his pint, but
wouldn't sit down to drink it, and walked
up and down fuming, till we made him tellus
all about it.

"Well, it was this way. You know
there was a meeting this afternoon on
Clerkenwell Green ? The bobbies were
there, of course, and plenty of 'em — quite
quiet and well-behaved, all except one, and
he got hold of a couple of lads near me,
who were only larking a little bit with each
other, and handled them shamefully. Of
course, I wouldn't stand that, and took
their part. With that, he collars me, and
crying out, ' I'll run you in, my boy, at all
events,' he began shoving me along as if I
were a football. A lot of my mates were
going to upset him, but I cried to them not

to do that, but to come to the station-house,
and get a sergeant, who had been looking
on, to come with them. For I saw that
the fellow had been drinking, and I thought
the inspector, as well as the sergeant, would
see it too ; while if my pals had rescued
me, the whole force would have been down
on the lot of us." And he stopped to take
breath, and a pull at the pewter.

Aye, aye, go it, mate ! " was the cry
now, for we were all agog.

"So off we all went to the station, and
there my fine gentleman was cross-questioned
by the inspector, who looked at
him pretty sternly from top to toe, when
he smelt his breath, and then he questioned
the sergeant (who gave his evidence rather
reluctantly, but quite fairly), and finally
ordered my enemy into the back yard with
a flea in his ear, and sent us off to the
bosom of our families and domestic joy at
the ' Sawyers' Arms.' "

Hip, hip, hip, hurrah ! "

We were all as jolly as he at first, but
after a bit I began to think — and I thought

this — " That fellow will watch Davie for a
twelvemoiith,and if ever he gets the chance,
won't he be down upon him 1 "

The man had received a severe reprimand,
it seems, for however occasional
ill-behaviour may and must occur in so
large a body of poorly-educated men as
the force, I've long thought it admirably
governed ; and I must say the men are
generally very useful and well-behaved,
though, it seems to me, not half so civil
in the City as in the Metropolitan force.
The man in question, however, was an
exception, and he certainly vowed vengeance.
But there were worse men than
he in Government pay, as time showed.

I've said there were stormy meetings
going on thro' the summer of 1848 allover
the country; and in June, Chartist
and '* Repeal " (Ireland) meetings were
announced by huge placards very near
home. In the London Fields, Clerkenwell
Green, Horton (where Victoria Park is
now), Retinal Green, and Bonner's Fields,
large gatherings took place. I did not

go near them, but Davie was in a feverish
way about them all.

One night lie came rushing' up the stairs
where I lodged, and with an oath exclaiming,
" Confound all blasted ' Peelers ;' keep
it dark, Jem ! " he threw himself under mj
bed and lay as still as a mouse.

I locked the door in a liffey, off with my
clothes, out with my light, on with my
night-shirt, and into bed before I heard
the heavy tread on the stairs I was expecting.
It stopped on the first floor,
then a knock at front and back lodgers'
doors, then a parley, then it came up to
my door.

Xo answer, unless the gentleman could
hear me snoring, and took that for one.

Knock, knock, knock again.

""Wlio's there?" from under the bedclothes.


Policeman X. Open the door."

Then I stumble to the door in the dark,
upsetting a chair in the way, and rubbing
very sleepy eyes. I open it and confront
my Bobby.

What's the row ? Rather late, mj
friend, to wake up a man who has to beat
work bj six tomorrow morning."

Sorry to disturb you, my man," said
the constable, evidently getting doubtful
about the legality or wisdom of his proceedings
; " but just let me throw a light
into yer room," and the bull's-eye was
unclosed.

'' Nonsense," said I, opening the door
wide enough for him to put his head and
lantern in, " what do you expect to see
there? Come, be oiBT; and don't wake
me up again in a hurry. Have you got a
search-warrant ? "

The man knew he hadn't, and was
satisfied by the look of the room that he
had made a mistake ; so with clumsy
apologies he stumped downstairs again ;
but we heard him walking about for a longtime.


I believe it was Davie's friend ; but of
course we could not be certain. When I
had made sure the coast was clear, Davie
scuttled home as fast as he could, where

this wife was sitting up for him, and very
unhappy.

Next day I heard that he had been at the
great meeting on Clerkenwell Green ; that
the police had charged the people ; that a
scrimmage had taken place, and a good
many heads been broken. Davie, of
course, was in the thick of that work ;
"for," said he, "though I took nothing
but a bit of crab-tree with me, and was
determined not to join in any attack upon
either troops or constables (in fact, I had
promised Maggie I wouldn't), I couldn't
keep my hands quiet when I saw those

b peelers knocking the poor fellows

about and cracking skulls like egg-shells."

You mustn't go again, Davie," said I,
"or you're safe for two years' imprisonment,
perhaps transportation ; and what are your
poor wife and children to do then ? Can't
you see as plain as a pikestaff the people
haven't the ghost of a chance against the
government forces? "

Davie ground his teeth in silent rage.

It is not like Paris."

No," he said, at length, '^ not a chance,
until they are armed. But I can tell you,
Jem, arms are to be had ; and Englishmen
are as brave as Frenchmen."

True ; but not as well used to street-fighting.
And if ever there comes a Frenchman,
as hard, and cruel, and despotic as
old Boney was, you'll see French workmen
once again made hay of in Paris streets,
and the gutters choke full of their blood,
and then their butcher ruling over 'em
all."

I don't believe it, Jem — not a bit of it.
All we've got to do is to arm."

Then, seeing the look on my face, he
added fiercely, —

What's life worth, or home, or wife, or
children, or any mortal thing, I should like
to know, to slaves ? Am I to be working
and eating and drinking in peace and comfort
while thousands are starving, and the
people are being crushed by this infernal
despotism ? "

What use was there in saying more to a
benevolent hot-headed madman ?

As I turned array, very miserable, lie said,
But I promise you one thing, Jem. I'll
be tarnation close over it all, from this day
forti. I'll be as crafty as a spy, and bilk
the bloodthirsty hounds, depend on it."

That night we heard that Joseph
'williams, Sharpe, Vernon, Russell, and
Ernest Jones were all in quod for seditious
speeches at the meetings on Clerkenwell
Green. They were all committed for trial.

In spite of this, another great meeting
was called soon after, to be held in Bonner's
Fields, but large forces were brought up to
prevent it. Dr. McDouall was to preside.
Immense multitudes were tramping towards
the spot from all quarters. The women
and children were kept away. Most of the
men had got bludgeons, some had pikes.
A cab rattled past. The Doctor was
recognized by Davie and others who were
waiting to receive hint; and roaring cheers
went up from many thousand throats.
Way was made for the cab to the meeting
ground; the Doctor was politely handed
out of the cab by two constables, and

requested to confer with a military-looking
man in dark blue uniform.

You, sir, I presume, are " said

Dr. McDouall, inquiringly.

'* Captain — • — , Assistant Commissioner
of Police. I regret to inform you my
orders are to disperse this meeting by
force, and to arrest you, if you persist in
holding it."

Dr. McDouall and Captain exchanged
bows. The Doctor mounted the
top of his cab, and persuaded the angry
and excited multitude to turn tail and
march home again.

But the meetings went forward elsewhere.
The Doctor (McDouall) was, of
course, closely watched, and soon gave the
authorities ground for arresting him, which
was done at Ashton-undermine not long
after.

But Davie brought me with immense
exultation an account of how, on Sunday,
July 18, a great delegate meeting had been
held at Blackstone Edge, when a resolution
was passed, " That all movements for the

Charter lead failed, in consequence of the
Chartists opposing moral force to the
physical force of their oppressors." I kne^v
pretty well what would come next.

But it was the away at Ashton, on August
14, when the policeman was shot, that
chiefly sent a thrill of rage and terror
through the governing classes, and, I
suppose, made them think any measure
justifiable to put down the rising spirit of
insurrection ; while the leaders of the
physical-force Chartists, and many of their
followers, were getting equally unscrupulous
and desperate. So the demand for pike-heads,
daggers, pistols, ball-cartridges, &c.,
went briskly forward. And the Government,
or at least the heads of the police,
began to listen to the infamous proposals
of the notorious Powell. Ah, well, poor
Davie talked of being as crafty as a spy.
More than one meant to be the same.

On the day when the meeting was dispersed
in Bonner's Fields, a disreputable-looking
beggar in a faded shooting-coat and
leggings, was standing alongside a policeman

watching intently every man who seemed to
be taking an active part in the day's proceedings.
As Davie Roberts came up he
noticed the policeman nudge his companion,
and thought he heard him say, " That's
the fellow." Looking carelessly round he
recognized the man who had 'run him in "
a few weeks before, and saw too, the
malicious smile on his face. But as
McDouall came up soon after he thought
no more of the matter, except a passing
wish to have a fair set-to with the constable
and knock him into next week. But if
their chief showed the white feather what
could a poor sub. do ?

From a few words I overheard one night
between Davie and some of his set, I feared
they were now beginning preparations for
arming in earnest, and so it proved.

The night after we had heard of the
fatal business at Ashton I happened to
have been kept very late at a lodge-meeting
of our trade society over a row about a
defaulting member. It was a dark, rainy
night, and as I was passing through St.

James's Churchyard, Gierke well, I was
startled by seeing three or four men crouching
behind the gravestones. It was too
dark to see what they were about, but as
I thought they were grubbing in the earth
the idea flashed on me that they must be
body-snatches, for I had heard plenty
about those gentlemen when I was a lad.
Looking round for a policeman, I put my
hand to my mouth, and was just about to
give him a whistle, when one of the men
sprang over the railings and grasped my
arm.

Hush ! we're only putting away some
ball-cartridges. The police ran us close.
Keep it quiet, Jem."

Davie ! Davie ! " said I, all in a fluster,
I pray God you mayn't be sorry for this
miserable folly to the last hour of your
life."

Pray God, Jem," said he sternly, " to
smite down our tyrants, so that honest,
peaceable working men mayn't have to risk
their necks in getting justice done."

The other men had joined us by this

time, and as they all walked hastily away,
Eoberts added, —

And pray God to give you a better
heart, Jem. I guess you are but a selfish,
sneaking humbug after all — afraid to risk
anything for freedom."

Xow, I don't say it wasn't a bitter dose
to have dirt like that thrown at me, though
I knew he'd be sorry enough next morning
he had said it. But we all used strong
lanmiao^e now and then without meanings
much by it. And I did sometimes think I
was both cowardly and selfish in doing
nothing but talk and teach lads grammar
and geography, or what that noble-hearted
man, William Ellis, called social economy,
by way of delivering my fellow-countrymen
from the grinding misery and injustice that
was crushing the very life out of thousands
of them. And, vexed as I was with Davie,
I should have been base indeed, and unworthy
of the friendship of a fellow like
him, if I hadn't amused and honoured from
the bottom of my heart his unselfish and
most self-sacrificing efforts. But I couldn't

look at all the plans of him and this party
except as a miserable mistake. I felt
certain it was then, and I'm just as certain
now. So, what could I do ?

Three hundred ball-cartridges were found
buried in the churchyard next day by a
grave digger — as might have been expected,
his experienced eye telling him there was a
disturbance of earth in which he had had
no hand. The cartridges were taken with
great trepidation by churchwardens, grave-digger,
and police, to Scotland Yard, and
the newspaper boys got hoarse with proclaiming
the fearful discovery.

It was very soon, if I remember rightly,
after McDouaU's "upset" in Bonner's
Fields, and before this '^ find " in St.
James's churchyard, that I saw Davie as I
passed the door of the Hall of Science one
evening, talking to a rather spruce-looking
journeyman carpenter, who was shaking
Davie's hand with a deal of warmth, as if,
said Davie, he had just picked him out of
the Present's Canal. I didn't like the man's
face.

VOL. II. Q

38 JAMES Woodward,

"Alio's that fellow, Davie?" said I,
as lie came along with me a little way.

Oil, lie's a regular brick; kiiow^s Cuffey,
Fay, Ritchie, and all our best men. He
was at our meetiiiQ; there to-nioflit, and
heard me speak; declared it was prime
stuff, and the very tiling lied been wanting
to hear for many a day. Told me where
he worked in Leeds, but had just come to
town. Said he must throw in his lot with
us. Wanted to knows wdiat he could do to
help, and gave me ten shillings towards
the ' Liberty Fund.' I never saw a chad
so pleased."

Oh, I know" you can talk as well as
you fight."

By George, he did butter me, I can tell
you. I should rather have liked you and
Maggie to have heard wdiat he said."

Precious glad I didn't. Do you believe
all he says ? "

Why not ? You say I can talk. Jem,
you're jealous ! It's very hard a man can't
have a little encouragement, once in a way,
without one's best friends damping down."

And lie moved away.

Davie, that's bad fellow; depend upon
it. Did you look at this hand ? "

'' I'm not a fortune-teller."

Aye, but did you notice if it felt liard
and horny like an honest man's hand ! "

Can't say I did ; and, now you mention
it, it did feel rather soft'

Something like you, Davie, I'm
afraid."

But he was in no mood for chaff, and
didn't like it.

I was getting rather anxious, too, about
his position at the shop. His employers
had threatened once or twice to discharge
him for being so often away from his work
and late in the mornings. They certainly
would have done it, had he not been a very
clever hand, and they had heavy jobs to
complete. So I made one last appeal to
him that night.

It was no use.

He declared, with much excitement,
things would soon mend now, for they
would go the right way to work presently.
Q 2

I asked him what lie was going to do with
his new friend ?

'' Introduce him to-night at one of our
meetings."

'where?"

Davie was reluctant to tell me ; but at
last whispered, —

At the Orange Tree, Orange Street."

Then we parted.

Chapter XII.

I WENT round by the Orange Tree before
going home and had a glass. The place
was full of all sorts — good, bad, and indifferent,
— some very desperate-looking
roughs, and some very respectable men
of our Society. Cuffey and Fay, with
other leading Chartists, were just going
into an inner room. They welcomed me
warmly, crying, '' That's right, my boy.
We wanted you," and two or three whispered,
'' Are you in for it too ? It looks
like business at last, don't it?" I told
them I knew nothing about what they
were doing and didn't want to. I only
came to see if Roberts was there. They
said rather surlily he would soon be there,
and hoped he'd give me '' a lift, right
side uppermost." So I waited a bit, for

I was getting more and more anxious for
liii. Presently lie came in along with
the man 1 had seen speaking to him. I
noticed the fellow stood treat both for
Davie and several others. Presently he
edged towards the door, I gave Davie a
sign and whispered him to keep close so
that his friend shouldn't see him, but to
keep his eye on him. The man sidled out
of the door, and round the corner in a
liffey. I after him, Davie watching at the
door. Just outside I met a brother chip
of the name of Locke, and taking him by
the button I beo'an talking about some
affair in our Trades' Union Lodge, ]put
asked him to keep his ears open when we
got round the corner. I soon spied the
new convert with another man, as I expected,
and we lounged past them talking*
of the lodge-meeting. Then I left my
friend, he dawdled back again, and I went
round by another way back to the Orange
Tree. Locke was waiting for me on the
door-step.

'' Did you hear anything ? " I whispered.

'' Yes. Call Davie Roberts out. Look
sharp ! "

When Davie came, he seemed rather bewildered,
and said, —

I've just seen the blackguard."

Who do you mean ? "

Why that d policeman, that run

me in ; he's inside, in plain clothes."

I thought so. And did you see your
new friend vritli him r "

'No, by George, or I'd have wrung his
neck. They haven't l^een near each other,
I'll swear."

Oh, dear no, not at all. Davie, those
two men were round the corner just now
talking together as hard as they could.
Locke and I saw them." Roberts started.
'' Just tell Davie what you heard."

Well, I heard this, Da^ue Roberts.
The policeman said, ' I saw him go in not
ten minutes ago ;' and then the other chap
said, ' Come inside, and put your finger on
the fellow's shoulder. I think he's the
same cove as brought me here ' — at least
it sounded very like that ; but they talked

low. Then I walked on ; and soon after
they came up to that door, and I followed
them in. Then your Bobby works his
way through the men round the bar, and
I sees him put his finger on yer shoulder
as plain as I see you now."

Eoberts clapped his hand to his forehead,
as if he'd been shot. I knew he'd
think more of the warning, if another man
than myself told him he was being sold.
He looked in my face one minute with a
sort of despairing wretchedness, like as I
fancy men look when they are going to
drown themselves. Then he whispered ina
hoarse voice, " I must warn CufEey and
Fay;" and was dashing off, when I caught
his arm. " You will come back to me
directly?"

Yes, yes ! Wait for me here a
minute."

When he came back his forehead was
covered with sweat. 'rit's no use," he
said. " I've seen Cuffey, and they don't
believe there's much iu it, and they won't
give up the meeting to-night, and I'll not

desert them. But they'll take care those
two scoundrels are watched and kept out
of it. Good reason too. Why that place
and two more ' publics ' are choke full of
pikes, swords, loaded pistols, gunpowder,
tow balls, and heaven knows what. We're
all ready to begin, and everything will be
settled to-night. But I don't like — '' and
he paused.

I got him to walk a little way with me
up the street towards his home.

Now look here, Davie," said I. '' Can't
you see your whole plot is known to the
police. I'm as certain that villain who
spoke to you is an informer as that we're
standing here."

I believe it, and I've told Cuffey and
the rest all about it. But they won't believe
it, as I told you just now. They only think
I'm a coward, and if they're to be hung, I
must swing with them."

*' Very well, and I'll crack up your
heroism over your grave. I'll be bound
Mr. Fletcher will preach a splendid funeral
sermon. . . . Davie Roberts, look here. I

do honour sou more than I care to tell you,
for the pluck and the unselfish public spirit
with which sou are going into this business.
I believe I would do and risk as
much, or more, myself, to get the Charter,
if I thought it the right way — not half as
much credit to me as to you, for I've
neither wife nor child." (" Poor Maggie,
and the kids," said Roberts, sadly, half to
himself.) " And I would face aiij/ risk, or
suffer any pain, I think, to help workings
men get the Charter by moral force, for
then I know they would be prepared to use
their power well when they got it. But,
would to heaven that you could see that
now you are leagued with all sorts of blackguards,
and are stirring up all the filth and
scoundrelism of London. . . . Think of
the ruffians and thieves who'll be in the
thick of the row, ready to burn and plunder
on the first chance. Remember the
Potteries, and poor Burt. What good do
you expect can come out of all that ? . . .
Davie, I know you've liked and trusted in
Mr. Fletcher, haven't you ? " (He nodded

energetically.) '' And tliougii yon haven't
been to hear him often lately, I have ; and
I see, as I never used to, that it's no
good getting men the franchise, or giving
them power of any kind, unless so far as
you help them to become unselfish or self-restrained,
wise, and thoughtful. But, on
my word, I believe thoroughly, now, that
Mr. Fletcher is right in saying that nobody
can make us unselfish but Christ. You
don't think he's canting, I know, in saying
that, or me for saying it after him, do
you?" — ["No, indeed"] — "because you
know we are sincere. And you know, too "
(I hurried on, for I felt fidgety, as I always
did if ever I got on these subjects, which
wasn't often; but I. had promised Mr.
Fletcher I would take the first opportunity
of saying it all, and I saw Davie listened
with all his mind), " you know that I don't
mean we must all believe this or that particular
creed, but we must get Christ's spirit
and His help, and act on His precepts, if weare
not to be cutting one another's throats
all round, or else giving ourselves up to

beastly living and greed for money, and so
coming under a mncli worse tyranny, both
without and within ns, than your friends,
or anybody else, ever fought to throw off.
Look at the French workmen — are they
any the better for their last revolution and
all the bloodshed ? Depend upon it, too,
they haven't seen the worst of it yet. . . .
But what's the good of talking ? It's just
this wretched selfishness and these bad
passions, which we all have, that must begot
under if we are to have any real freedom
or peace, no matter what the Government
be. And how are you to get unselfishness
and self-restraint out of pikes
and pistols?" I was '' coming the
parson " in this style, you see, partly
because I knew the further I got him from
the '' Orange Tree," and the nearer home,
the more chance there was of his not going-back.
At last he said, —

'' Cromwell got freedom and peace out of
pikes and gunpowder, at all events."

No, he didn't. Mr. Fletcher was talking
on that very point in his last lecture,

and lie showed low eliot and steel were of
no use at all, even to Cromwell, for winning
freedom, as long as he'd only got a lot of
godless troopers and fellows with no
principle in them. Don't you know it
wasn't till he got his ' Bible arms ' together
that he smote the Philistines ? Didn't he
say he must laye ' God-fearing men who
would make a conscience of it ? How
many of those men at the ' Orange Tree '
to-night are either Grot-fearing or making
a conscience of it ? Remember this is not
my chatter. It's Mr. Fletcher's."

I could see that Davie's generous heart
was answering to these words, coming as
they did a- top of his terrible discovery.
about the spy who had been flattering and
journeying hin. So, still slowly heading
for Davie's lodgings, I went on talking.

You see, Davie, that looking through
history as well as I've been able to do while
attending these lectures of Mr. Fletcher's
on the history of Christianity, I can see
that nations, and movements of all sorts in
Christendom, have prospered for the last

eighteen centuries just so far as tliej really
put their necks in Christ's harness, and
lived under His yoke. . . . Christianity, in
spite of the evil done by bad men in its
name, seems to me to have been the chief
liberator ' of all who were oppressed,
whether by their own vices and selfishness,
or by the crime and selfishness of others.
And it stands to reason it must be so, first
because it is only from Christ we learn
perfect self-denial, self-sacrifice, purity, and
love. And secondly, because when we do
know what we ought to do and to be, we
want the strength and the will for doing
and being; it ; and this also the best and
noblest men and women, in all those ages,
said they found by looking to Christ for it
• — said this was not to be found effectually
and lastingly anywhere else. I believe they
are right. I can't see in history, nor find
in my own experience, anybody else who
can deliver us from our selfishness and
other sins. It is not so much, I fancy,
that we don't know what's right. What
we want is help to do it ; and that we get

from Christ, and from no one else, as sure
as Grod's in heaven and lias given His Son
to help US. It all seemed too good to be
true, Davie, dien I first heard Mr. Fletcher
say it. But I know now, bv trying it on,
it is true, and you'll find it so, my boy.
You don't think I'm canting ? "
No, no ; not a bit ! Cut on."
'' I've just done. Only if, as Mr. Fletcher
says and. I believe, Christ's appearance in
the world, and the power given to Him
since His crucifixion, is Grod's way of mending
the world, and raising us to goodness
and happiness, we may be as certain that
no other way will answer as that the sun
will rise tomorrow morning, and that half-armed,
undisciplined godless patriots are
no match for artillery, trained troops, and
Government spies."

Curse them ! a thousand times ! " .
And he clenched his fist, striking out
fiercely. But soon the savage look on his
face passed away — the brawny inst dropped
at his side, and it was almost in a moaning
way he said, as he stopped and faced me : —

Jem, why did you never say all this
before? It's too late now — too late."

Never too late to mend while ere live,
Davie. If you feel what I say is true (and
I know you do), you can get strength to
act on it at once. But I know I outfit to
have spoken sooner. I wish to heaven I
had. I've often wanted to, but you know
how a fellow hates canting and setting
himself up to preach, and what a deal is
expected of him if he does. However, I
promised Mr. Fletcher last Sunday night I
would say something like this to you when
I got a chance, and so I was looking out
for it. But I hadn't a notion you were so
near the edge, or I'd have spoken at all
costs, for I believe there's nothing else
would keep a man like you out of this mad
devil's business."

We stood silent a minute, and then I
remember I took his hand, and just said,
for I couldn't help it, —

Dear old friend, you know we have
been friends in rough weather and shine
for many a day, in spite of our little tiffs

now and then. . . . Don't think I'm a
coward, or that it's so much more brave and
good of yon to go on with this 
business than to come out of it ;
for I swear it's nothing but folly and
treachery to your master, Christ, and to all
working men. They need all you can do
to lift them up and bring them to their true
Deliverer, not to push them further into
the old mischief-maker's hell-cauldron, and
plunge in yourself. . . . Davie, for the
sake of true Chartism, and our downtrodden
brother worries — for your poor
wife's sake — for the sake of Christ and Godin
heaven — let me ask you to leave all that
miserable folly and wickedness behind, and
go home."

Davie passed his hand over his eyes,
turned away, stopped, came back, shook
hands, just murmured, —

'* Too late. . But God bless you, old
friend. Go and see Maggie and cheer her
up a bit. Good-night, and God bless
sou."

Then he went back as hard as he could

VOL. II. E

to Orange Street. I went home with a
heart-ache.

When he Quot to the ' Orange Tree ' the
first man, he told me, whom he saw was
Locke, standing on the door step, and
who, it seems, was on the look-out in case
my friend should return. He came to meet
him, saying, under his breath, —

Be off, Roberts. Don't come here tonight.
For heaven's sake don't go in, man,
they'll murder you if you do."

But Davie only thanked him, put him
aside, and pushed past the crowded bar
trying to go straight to the club-room
where the committee were sitting. The
moment he was recognized all the loud,
eager talking ceased, and a murmur began
to run through the place.

Hullo, Roberts ! " shouted one, "there's
been a spy here ! "

Caught a spy here ! " cried another.
"What do you think of that, my boy ?"

"No, by ," cried a tlnrd, coming

out of the committee-room, with more
behind him, " they have not caught the

spy, but here's the sneak ttIio rounded onus,
and by the powers we'll pay him
out ! "

Then the whole lot closed in on Davie,
who backed up against the wall and kept
the foremost at arm's length by sheer
strength and coolness. There he stood
like a rock, not taller than many of them,
but wonderfully strong and well-knit, as
pale as a sheet, but perfectly cool, and even
contemptuous. One big fellow grasped
him by the collar, but he held the man's
wrist as in a vice. There were a few
there who not only believed like the rest
that he had been betraying them, but who
hated him because he was a good speaker,
and sometimes a bit cocky, while others
had long had a grudge against him because
he was so popular with his songs
and stories in any set he went amongst.
Others again were bitter against him
because he worked with Lovett at the
National Hall. Their time for revenging
themselves was come.

But I don't suppose the crowd of work

2

men swaying backwards and forwards there
was a bit worse than an average lot of such
men as I have since known on 'Change, in
Mincing Lane, in the Leeds' Cloth Hall,
or on the Liverpool " Flags," had they
found a man detected as they thought in a
sneaking plot to blow some joint-stock
company into the air in which they had
largely invested, or if a spy had been
caught secreted somewhere in the Stock
Exchange. These men were a trifle more
rough, perhaps, and more accustomed to
use their hands, as well as to go direct at
once to their purpose, without a thought
for the consequences. But as far as Vindictive
fury and hatred might go, I believe
it would be six of one and half-a-dozen
of the other. Things were getting serious,
however, inside that Orange Street 'public"
just then.

Davie had so far indeed kept them from
rushing in upon him and dragging him
down. But things could not remain in
that state for more than a few minutes.
Da^ae, at first, tried in vain to get a hearing,

for the committee-men and some of the
most violent were mad to get at him, while
Locke and a few others managed to help
keep them back. But at last he raised
his voice so loud that they beo-an to
listen.

*' I'm no sneak, nor a traitor, and it's you
that should be ashamed of treating an old
pal, who's always been true to you, in this
way. I tell you I believed that man who
you say is a spy was as honest a man as any
here " (" More fool you ! ") '' until an hour
ago, when I heard what looked black ; and
I went straight to Mr. Cuffey and told him
all I knew."

That's true," said Cuffey, emerging out
of the club-room.

•' ^^VTiy didn't you say so before, Cuffey r ''
cried several.

'' Why, you fools," shouted Cuffey, " how
should I know what you were all jabbering
about?"

Whereon Davie continued : ''I went
away then for a few minutes with Jem
Woodford, one of Lovett's men, because

lie wanted me to go with him, and cnt the
whole concern here."

Terrific groans, amid which a man named
Ritchie called out, —

'' And I suppose you told him all about
our arsenal?"

'' Joseph Ritchie ! " said Davie (and
Locke told us his voice was almost terrible
to hear) " are you not an honest man
yourself ? How dare you say such a thing ?
You know I never breathed a word about
the arms to the man — though if that blasted
Government put me on the rack they'd
never get anything out of me agen you —
mind that mates ! Now let me go."

Why did you bring the fellow here,
then, at all?"

'' Why did you ever bring any mortal
Chartist here, yourself ? I suppose it was
because you thought they were honest men.
When a fellow talks as he did, told me where
he had worked in Leeds, said he wanted to
cotton with us, and upset the Government,
and gave me Io. on the nail for the cause
(which I handed over to Mr. Cuffey), how

•

was I to know lie was an infernal scoundrel
? But now, look you here, mates ! I
left Woodford and came back here to take
my share of any danger or any fighting
that might turn up to-night. Did that
look like rounding on you ? But if this is
all the faith you have in me, I see I'm in
the wrong place, and, if you'll allow me to
pass, I wish you all good-night ! "

Some called out, " All right, Davie's a
good fellow; it's a shame to suspect him."
Others cried, '' Let the varmint go. We
don't want any mealy-mouthed friends of
Lovett's here, or of Lovett's friends."

But more than one fiercely shouted, —

*' What, let him go and bring the redcoats
down on us ! Knock out the beggar's
brains ; curse him ! "

'' Nonsense," said both Cuffey and Fay.
'' He's all right. He's in a pet now, and
no wonder. He'll be all right in the morning
and stand by us like a man."

Then the crowd sullenly made way, and
Davie elbowed his way out. But three or
four men, among whom was Locke, who

knew where lie lived, followed him secretly,
till they saw he was going home, and not
to the police-station.

Davie told me afterwards he never had
so much trouble in all his life as to keep
his fist from dashing into the face of the
man who collared him ; and that what I
had been saying to him, a few minutes
before, somehow helped him to keep quiet.
But, if he had struck the man, he'd have
been lynched to a dead certainty ; and,
before Locke, who was watching and ready
to run, could have got a policeman, the
poor fellow would have had the breath
choked out of him, and Maggie would have
been a widow

I, little dreaming of the terrible danger
he was in, had gone home and got my tea.
It had just gone eight (I remembered the
time, because I heard the chimes just as I
was on the street-doorstep) when I went to
his lodgings, hoping, though faintly, to find
hmi there ; and, if not, to cheer up his
wife, as he asked me to do. I found her
very nervous and irritable, keeping her boy

out of his bed for company, and the poor
little man rubbing this eyes to keep awake
and stop the tears. So I stayed and chatted
a bit, and left her more comfortable.

What went on after Davie and I left the
place was this. It seems that Powell (for
it was that infamous spy himself who had
deceived Davie) had been suspected, even
through his disguise, while in the bar of the
*' Orange Tree " by some sharp-eyed chap.
The policeman in plain clothes heard angry
whispers, and made Powell move off. But
suspicion once roused, another man who
had seen him at Bow Street more than
once, swore it was Powell, and then it was
only by the policeman's humbugging a
number of the Chartists, and swearing that
the supposed spy was a refugee French
workman from Paris, and by exerting all
his strength, that he succeeded in getting
the rascal safe outside. But as soon as
they were clear off, Locke, who was a kindhearted
fellow, and didn't want to see the
spy strangled under his nose, told the committee
he had heard the man talking

English plainly enough an hour before, and
that the other man had pointed out Davie
Roberts to him in the croAvd. That was
quite enough, and while they congratulated
themselves on having found him out (as
they hoped, in time), every one began
asking who had brought the villain among
them. That also, as wee have seen, became
only too well known very soon.

CHAPTER Xii.

"Within half an hour after Davie had left the
Orange Tree," Powell and his friend the
policeman had disguised themselves in new
dresses, and, got up now like bricklayers,
had strolled back to Orange Street, whereby
the corrupting poster of five " bob "
irresistible bribe to needy pot-boy, (who
believed them to be merely inquisitive
Chartists), they got admittance to the backyard
of the '' Orange Tree," the boy meanwhile
hiding in the dark in an old hogshead,
within earshot. Once in the back-yard, it
was not difficult for the policeman to stand
on a dog-kennel, nor for Powell to stand on
the policeman's shoulders, and thereby to
peep between the curtain and the window-frame
into the club-room, where the committee
were sitting.

Can you see 'em, Bill ? " said the constable,
according to the pot-boy's subsequent
statement, when hard pressed.

'' I should just think I can."

Of course Roberts is among 'em."

Can't see him — nowheres."

"Curse you, Bill; you must see him.
It's catching him is all as I care about."

'' Well, if I must, I must. Yes, of course.
There the fellow is, smoking his jDipe just
agen the fireplace. Lor', yes. I should
know him out of a thousand. It's him that
speaks so pretty."

All right. Can you hear anything ? "

Dead silence for ten minutes. Policeman
got uneasy. They changed places. Then both
got down, and crept away as they had crept in.

Think of that, " said one. " Why, the
house must be full of crackers and bomb-shells
! Here's a pretty go."

And a jolly good find," said the other.

Pot-boy began to be frightened, but
durst blab to any one at first. But the
two men, jumping into a cab, soon found
themselves in Scotland Yard, quickly told

their tale, and in the course of an hour a
dull, measured sound struck on the ears
of the earnest and noisy talkers at the bar
of the " Orange Tree," producing such a
sudden silence that one of the committee-men
came out from the club-room to see
what was the matter.

All the men there that night — latest
comers, of course, included — knew they
ran some little risk by staying after the
informer had been detected. But they
were all growing desperate. They rather
liked the excitement of a little danger, and
moreover believed that as he had been discovered
before any real business had begun,
and of course knew nothing about the pikes
and ball-cartridges, he couldn't do them
any immediate harm. But his visit was a
reason for hastening on the insurrection;
and I believe it was resolved to pass round
the word through London to get to work
at sunset, the next night but one. Of that,
however, I am not sure.

Just as the committee-man opened the
door, he was startled by the sight of a

general helter skelter rush to the half-open
swing doors which let into the street, and
the next minute he saw the hats and greatcoats
of a column of policemen with drawn
truncheons and cutlasses at their side,
forcing their way through the crowd of
fugitives. It was evident they didn't want
any of that party, and they knew exactly
where to go for the men they did want.
Two or three of the committee escaped by
the window at which Powell had listened,
but the inspector was too quick for them,
and had got a few men iDOsted at the back
to cut off their retreat. The one man of
all others, however, whom one of the force
did particularly want, he couldn't find;
though, as he assured the inspector, '' he
saw him there with his own eyes not an
hour before " (so he did), and "he was
one of the dangerously of 'em all." So a
good deal of time was spent in searching
both for Davie and the war-material. The
latter was safely secured, but poor Davie
was out of their clutches. Not, however,
for long. A warrant was issued next day

for his apprehension, on the ground that
he had been seen there shortly before, and
must have escaped. At last the inspector
said they must be off. It struck nine as
the men, with the prisoners in their midst,
waited in close column before the tavern
for the word to " march." And the inspector
noted the hour.

Davie and his wife had moved from
Kentish Town lately, up to lodgings somewhere
between Park Street, Camden Town,
and Primrose Hill, that Maggie might more
easily take the children on to the hill for
fresh air now and then. As I was going
up the street to their lodgings, I remembered
afterwards seeing a girl waiting about
in the shadow within sight of those lodgings,
but took no particular notice of her.
She had got her veil down, and was soon
joined by a well-dressed man, who accosted
her with a good deal of familiarity. It was
pretty plain, however, his company wasn't
welcome.

At last she exclaimed, seemingly in great
distress, '' Oh, do go away, Mr. ." (I

didn't hear the name.) *' I can't bear
you."

'why, so, my pretty?" replied the
man, trying to take her hand. '' You're
quite respectable now, and fit company for
any gentleman."

For slime ; I say I won't have nothing
to do with you. You left me to my misery
and shame, you did, you hell-fire sneak !
and when I came and asked you for help
to live an honest life, you sneered at my
dress, and sent me away with a tizzy, —
curse you ! You're a bad, shabby lot, and
I've done with you. There's another will
be kinder than you, you d d sneak."

It was only too clear what kind of company
the poor wretch belonged to.

Then the man spoke rather low, but I
was just passing, and heard him say,
You're a pretty sort of wench to preach
to me."

I m not good for much, sir," cried the
unfortunate creature in a passion; 'but
you're a deal worse ! "

Then he put his hand on her shoulder.

She screamed, " Leave me alone, I say,
or I'll call the police ! "

Then I stopped and turned round. She
flung off in one direction, and he in another,
while I walked on. I had hardly been
gone ten minutes when, it seems, the step
that the girl had been expecting for the
last half-hour sounded on the pavement,
and Davie Roberts hove in sio^ht. The crirl
came back, and crept towards him, taking
away her veil. He stopped, and recognized
her at once. If a few minutes before, anyone
had asked him whether, if he met
Kitty Barber and she asked him to speak a
word to her, he would break his word and
talk and walk away with her, he would have
indignantly denied that it was possible,
lay, if at that moment there had been anyone
at his elbow to remind him of his
promise, I'm sure he would have turned
away silently, and entered his home and
sent his wife to see the girl and relieve her.
But Davie's fatal weakness was his readiness
to yield to the impulse of the moment.
He never seemed to have enough — I don't

VOL. II. s

know exactly what it is, but I mean enough
resistance in him — except when it was a
question oi" outside tyranny and injustice
in bodily shape. Then he was just — well,
a hero.

"Oh, Davie," said Kitty plaintively and
timidly, '' I've been waiting so long to see
you. Let me just tell you — "

What, Kitty Barber ! "

Yes. I couldn't go away altogether
without just one word from you. I've done
all you told me, Davie, and kept my place;
and I've saved a little money."

She was dressed neatly, and had on a
becoming little hat, and had got bask some
of her old good looks, and she seemed, too,
so sweet and sad. Davie looked at her,
first pitpngly, then kindly and tenderly.

Well, my poor girl, that's right, and
I'm glad of it."

By this time she was leading him on out
of the street towards Primrose Hill, but
talking all the way in a low, earnest voice.

'^ Yes, I stayed quietly at the refuge,
where you told me to go, till they let me

go to service, and there I had a hard, cruel
mistress, and I was kept so close, and never
a breath of fresh air or change of any sort.
But I thought of what you had said to me,
and I bore it as long as I could, till I
couldn't stand it no longer" — (here she
began to cry a little) — " and I came away,
and I'm going tomorrow down to Manchester,
where I'm to be well paid forgoing
on the stage as a ballet-girl. But I
couldn't go away without just a word from
you. You ain't angry with me, Davie — are
you ? " and she looked up at him so sorrowfully,
and the tears were in her eyes.

By this time they were a little way inside
the palings of Primrose Hill. It was cloudy
and dark. Just then, before he could
answer, and when his whole heart was
stirred within him, and old memories came
thronging up, the angry face of his wife
and her stinging words came up before
him also. He seemed to be in a dream.
Even then, though he had broken his word,
and let himself be led away by the temptress
— even then, if he had torn himself
s 2

from her, lie would have been safe. His
worst enemy could have made little handle
of his walking and talking with the girl,
wrong as it was, had he ended then and
there by wishing her good-night, and promising
that Maoforie should write to her.
But in the next moment he was awakened
from his fancies by her whispering, eagerly,
*' Oh, Davie, Davie, give me one kiss before
I go, and say you'll love me a little bit.
I've loved you all my life ;" and she flung
her arms passionately round his neck.

'' Love you ! " said Davie, startled, and
thrown off his balance, as he returned her
kiss with warmth, holding her for an instant,
as she whispered, " and you'll seeme
home now, dear, dear Davie ? "

Once she really loved him. Now she
acted it with as much heart as years of vice
had left her. But she over-acted it, and
the spell was broken. Without knowing
all that Kitty Barber afterwards confessed
how this was the wicked end for which
she had been long watching and working —
how she thought if she could only get

Davie to her lodgings lie might Vile him
away altogether from his wife, and get
him to go down with her to Manchester —
without clearly seeing all that gulf before
him, and all the girl's purposes, Davie
started back in horror at what he did see,
and wrenching himself from her arms, he
exclaimed, —

''Xo ! no ! Kitty, by this won't do !

I've a wife at home. There, be off with you ! '*
Then mentally ejaculating, *' I'm an infernal
blackguard ! " he was springing himself
round to hurry away, when he found
himself face to face with a man who made
way for him with much politeness. To his
intense dismay he heard the man's sneering
laugh, and then words which made his
blood chill. . . .

Oh, ho ! So you and Miss Kitty 
have made a match of it at last,
have you ? Come, come, don't be ashamed
of it. I've seen it all, and, of course, you
are going to take her under your protection
now?"

I don't know who you are, sir," cried

Davie, for it was too dark to see each
other's faces; *' but you are making a big
mistake, and, let me tell you, a most foolish
one. You've only seen a kiss in the dark — "

'No, no, my boy," replied Mr. Haugh-ton,
for it was he who had stealthily followed
Kitty and her friend, though he had
lost sight of them for a time. He, indeed,
had his own reasons for making out matters
as bad as he could and a deal worse, but I
think he really believed they were as bad
as he said. " No, no, young gentleman,
you don't get over me like that. But this
is the way with all you young profligates 1
You get a girl's affections, as you call it,
and then wash your hands of it, and leave
her to the workhouse."

'' It's all a foul lie, you fool, whoever
you be — though I begin to guess all about
you. Come, stand out of my way, or — "

The gentleman prudently removed himself
a bit, but called after Davie, as he strode
down the hill, —

You don't humbug me, young fellow.
I know what you've been up to." And

then he gave chase as well as lie could in
the darkness to the unhappy girl, who he
found had fled from the scene while these
words were being exchanged.

Davie gained his home panting and exhausted.
His wife had been anxiously
counting the hours for his return, and
keeping a little supper (with which she
had taken extra pains) hot for him.
When nine o'clock struck, after I had left,
and he didn't come, she became more and
more unhappy, thinking some accident
must have happened to him, or that there
had been a row of some sort at the " Orange
Tree;" and she kept fretting that she
hadn't asked me to go down there with her.
Then she began reproaching herself bitterly
that she had spoken to him so angrily, as
she told me she had done, when they last
parted. I couldn't have gone with her,
however, nor, indeed, have stayed nth her
any longer, as she begged me to do, and
much as I wished, because one of the men of
our lodge was very ill, and I had promised
to sit up with him that night. So, when she

heard her husband's step on the stair, and
he appeared at the door, she was trembling
with excitement, and threw herself into his
open arms with a little cry of joy. During
the ten minutes it took Davie to reach his
lodgings, the image of his wife in all her
purity, and love, and beauty, had rushed in
upon him with a force he had not felt for
some time lately, sweeping away all traces
of resentment ; while the contrast between
her wife-like trust and love and Kitty
Barber's baseness, and what he felt to have
been his own guilty weakness and momentary
infidelity of heart, if not of actual
conduct, quite unmanned him in his exhausted
condition, and the tears came.
Then the full fountains of her own penitent
and passionate love for her husband were
unlocked, and she tried to comfort him
with the tenderest self-forgetfulness. It
was a happy hour for them both, by the
side of the cradle of their sleeping boy,
after all their trouble. But Davie never
uttered a word of having met Kitty. He
would rather have died first.

Two days passed over, and Davie breathed
freely. He thought all danger from the
police for the 'orange Tree" business
was over, as far as he was concerned,
though at first both he and Maggie, as
swell as Mr. Fletcher and myself, were in
mortal fear when we heard of the numerous
arrests being made.

But on the morning of the third day,
just as Davie was going to his shop, a
strange-looking man in a billy-cock hat met
him at the door, and handed him a letter
directed to himself. Davie opened it at
once, and then wondered much to find
there was no writing inside ; whereupon
the strange man put his hand on his
shoulder, and said, " You are my prisoner.
Will you go quietly ? "

It seems this was the device for making
sure of the identity of the accused when
arrested under a warrant. I knew more
than one of my Chartist friends who were
hooked in that way. The constable who
had the grudge against Davie knew better
than to put himself forward, so he got the

detective, who had gone with him to the
'orange Tree," to collar my unhappy friend.
At the examinations before the police
magistrates, it was evident that things
would be pressed very hard against nearly
all the prisoners taken for their share in
the proceedings in Orange Street, because,
as it afterwards came out, evidence had
been given of the existence of plots and
conspiracies with wide-spread ramifications
for upsetting the Government and establishing
a Republic. In some cases, no doubt,
these plots were fostered by spies and informers,
eager for blood-money, but there
certainly was a large amount of dangerous
discontent and desire for a revolution
among the poorer and working classes. Soit
was soon generally known that most of
the accused stood a good chance of transportation
if they could not prove they were
somewhere else that day and night. The
discovery of the ball-cartridges, &c., at the
Orange Tree " was a clenched. The Kennington
Common donkeys were nowhere
now in the race of revolution and folly.

Davie Roberts absolutely and persistently
refused the help we all pressed upon him in
the shape of a fee to an able barrister to
defend him at the trial. He had resolved,
he said, to defend himself. His vise implored
him, with the tears streaming from
her eyes, to take this last chance of rescue,
but all to no purpose. AYe could not
understand it. He knew what we didn't.

As I was taking leave of him in newgate,
he just whispered to me, '' Yes, it's likely
to be a bad job, Jem. What time did you
call at my lodgings that night ? "

"About eight o'clock," said I. AYe
shook hands and parted. And Davie kept
saying to himself, half the night, "Ah,
then, if I had only kept my promise to
Jem, I shouldn't be here now." It had
struck eight o'clock, he well remembered,
just before he met Kitty Barber ; so if he
had gone up to his rooms instead of talking
vrith her he would have found me there,
and both his wife and I could have proved
his alii at Bow Street that da v. The
evidence of the policeman and the spy

would haye been discredited, and lie would
probably have been discharged. But both
Kitty Barber and Mr. Haughton could
have proved he was not in Orange Street.
"Wouldn't that have done ?

CHAPTER Xii.

The day after the examination at Bow
Street, a female asked and got leave to
speak with Davie Eoberts in Newgate, bail
having been refused. When she removed
a hood and shawl from her face, he saw,
almost with loathing, it was Kitty Barber.

I'm a deal more sorry to see yon here,
Davie, than may be you would think."

It was a wicked thing you wanted todo
by me and my wife, the other night,
Kitty Barber," replied Davie sternly.

Was it, then ? Well, the men are tarnation
wicked towards us women," retorted
the girl, with a bitter little laugh. ''So
sou needn't wonder if the women are rather
bad, now and then, towards the men. One
good turn deserves another. But look

here. I'm come now to do you a good turn
in real earnest. So make your mind easy ;
you'll get off. I'm a-going to get Mr.
Haughton (though I don't want to touch
him with a pair of tongs), and I'm coming
myself up to Bow Street next week, to
prove what they call your alii. No judge
or jury can go agen that. I didn't know
sou were before the beaks yesterday, but
I'll come next week."

No, you will not," replied Davie
quietly.

*' What do you mean ? " said she, almost
fiercely.

What I say. I defend myself, and I
don't mean to put either you or Mr. Haugh-ton
in the witness-box."

Then Kitty broke out, sobbing hysterically,
" You shan't prevent me, you shan't !
I've broken my engagement in Manchester,
and risked losing it altogether when I heard
you was in quod, that I might stay in town
and get you out of this blasted row."

'' That was very good of you, Kitty
Barber," replied Davie gently, 'sand I

shan't forget it. I hope God won't either.
. . But, don't YOU see? I'd rather be
transported twice over than that mj wife
should know I went with you that night to
Primrose Hill."

Kitty's eyes glittered.

''Ah, then I could cut you two fools
clean apart any day if I liked."

Davie winced, for he saw what an ass he
had been to speak as he had done ; and he
felt store now, as he had guessed before,
why the girl wanted to give her Evidence —
to give it so that a final estrangement
should take place between him and his
wife. But by a great effort he controlled
his agitation, and merely answered, '' Not
a bit of it. You can't play the devil's part
there if you wished it eYcr so much, my
girl. My wife would believe me sooner
than you any day, I'm thinking. So you'd
better go, Kitty." [His words werebraYe,
but, in his heart, he knew his wife would
ncYcr be the same to him again if she heard
of that meeting, though she might try exev
so^hard.] '' But if she or I could ever do

you any good we would, for all you've done
us a deal of harm. So send Jem Woodford
your address when you get to Manchester.
He or Maggie will be glad to help you
when I'm across the seas, if you really
meant well by us. There, good-night."

Then the wretched girl slunk away. She
knew she had told a lie about not going to
Manchester, but she really had an offer of
employment at some theatre there, and
risked losing it by staying on iu London
now.

One brief, bright gleam of sunshine shone
out upon us during those dismal days, and
I thought our troubles were ended. As I
came out of the prison one day a boy was
waiting to ask me if he could see " Muster
Roberts," as he had '' summit to tell him."
Locke had brought him to the door, but
couldn't wait any longer. But without an
order that couldn't be managed ; so then
he told me he was pot-boy at the " Orange
Tree," and wanted badly to tell my poor
friend all he had heard when hid in his beer-barrel
that fatal night. Of course I saw

Mr. Fletcher about it at once, and we both
felt sure that now, at all events, Davie was
safe. So I went home with a light heart,
but wouldn't say anything to Maggie till we
were certain, lest she should have sorrow
on sorrow. lyell for her I didn't. It was
about as great a surprise and disappointment
as I ever had in all my life, when I
found Davie stubbornly refusing to let the
boy be brought forward on the trial. We
could none of us understand it, neither then
nor afterwards ; for there wasn't the same
reason for not taking the boy's evidence as
there was against letting Kitty and Mr.
Haughton tell their tale. But I'm pretty
certain, tho' Davie never would tell me,
that he didn't feel safe, so to say, as long
as that girl could get to see him, or could
poison Maggie's mind against him, both of
which things he felt sure she would try todo
as long as they were all above ground
and in the same land together. Better let
the seas roll between them. There was a
chance that, then, Kitty's lying tongue and
bad, sore heart would be at rest — at least

VOL. II. T

as far as doing Mm or his poor wife mischief
was concerned.

The trials came on at the Old Bailey, indue
course, the following September. The
villain Powell was the principal witness
and confessed to having stimulated the
prisoners to buy arms, &c., in order to inform
against them, and had '' cast bullets
for them ! " When Davie's turn came,
Powell swore to seeing the prisoner in the
committee-room with the rest. The policeman
proved Davie's j)i'^sence at the
Bonner's Fields meetings, and swore to
having chased him after the fight there,
but had lost the scent. He also swore to
having tracked him to the "Orange Tree,"
and to seeing him with Cuffey, Fay, and the
rest. Another witness put in the box by
the counsel for the Crown, deposed to
Roberts being an old offender, and gave
the history of his connexion with the Newport
rising, and his narrow escape then.

By the time Davie was called on for his
witnesses and defence, he knew nothing
could save him, but proving that between

eight and ten p.m. on the night when the
committee were sitting at the " Orange
Tree," and he was charged with being
among them in the inner room, he had
been on Primrose Hill in company with
Kitty Barber and Mr. Haughton. However,
he began by putting the policeman
again in the witness-box, and making him
confess he had taken him (Davie) unjustly
to the station for the Clerkenwell Green
business ; and when the man denied that
lie had been severely reprimanded by the
inspector, the sergeant, whom we had got
to come to the court, confirmed the fact.
This evidently cleared Davie in the minds
of the judge and probably most of the jury
(as was plain from the judge's summing),
of the charge arising out of the
Bonner's Fields meeting. But, of course,
by far the most serious accusation against
him was the " Orange Tree" business. On
this point Davie said he had no witnesses
to call, and no defence to make, but that
which Hampden and Vane, Russell and
Sidney, had made when they were charged
T 2

with high treason. He urged that his
offence was not one whit greater than that
for which they and many other noble patriots,
whose shoes he wasn't worthy to
unloose, were honoured and loved through
all time by Englishmen of every class. He
had long believed, he said, that it was both
right and wise to resist a wicked and tyrannical
Government by force, and quoted
some grand lines beginning, " What were
we if Brutus had not lived ? He died in
giving Rome liberty ! " Then he went on
saying,—

True, he thought he had once learnt a
lesson as to the folly and wickedness of
using physical force even against a Government
like ours (bad as it was) nine years
before in Monmouthshire ; but he had forgotten
it since, under the accumulated tyranny
of the existing Government. And,
though it was false what the informer
Powell had sworn to, about his being in
the ' Orange Tree ' committee-room, he
should like to know what the Government
and governing classes, who were trying to

crush down every attempt of working men
to right their wrongs, were doing or going
to do in a better way, or for better ends,
themselves. If they didn't give the working
men a fair chance of speaking by their
representatives in Parliament, how could
they wonder if those men who had a spark
of patriotism in their breasts , and who had
never been taught how to speak smoothly
about great wrongs, occasionally forgot the
proprieties, and talked or acted in a way
he for one could not condemn, and which
he thought deserved very merciful treatment
in a time like the present, when even
steady men's heads were turned wild with
indignation." Davie wound up with an
eloquent appeal to the judge and jury, in
which there was just one faltering allusion
to his innocent wife and child, which
brought tears to some eyes, and his voice
broke down for a moment. So, then, he
rushed on for a moment with a force and
eloquence that seemed to sweep us off our
legs, and concluded amid vehement but
quickly-suppressed applause.

The judge and jury, of course, heard him
very patiently, but the summing-up would
have been fatal to him, even if the jury
hadn't made up their minds long before.
Verdict, "guilty;" sentence, "seven years'
transportation." Its announcement was
followed by a woman's shriek, and a bustle
in the court to get her into the fresh air.
Maggie Roberts had fainted. But the
Orange Tree " lot, who had been in court
or waiting outside, gave him round upon
round of cheering as he came out to the
prison van, for they saw now how unjustly
they had suspected him, and what a true,
noble heart he had. He told me those
cheers sang him to sleep many a night
after that sad day. But they couldn't
drown the sound of his wife's despairing
shriek, which seemed to ring in his ears, he
said, like a death-knell.

Yet the sentence was mild indeed compared
with what Cuffey, Fay, Ritchie,
Dowling, and Lacey got — viz., transportation
for life ; and we attributed this difference
partly to the appearance of a conspiracy

haYing been got up against Davie
by the policeman and Powell, and partly to
the impression produced by this speech.
Had lie let Kitty and Mr. Houghton prove
his alii, and the pot-boy give his evidence,
I suppose his acquittal must have been
certain.

A day or two before Davie had to go onboard
the convict-ship at Woolwich, I saw
he was labouriiio- with something he bitterly
wanted to say to me, and yet didn't like
telling. Soiled him on a little, and then,
making me solemnly swear not to tell a
soul without his leave, he let out all about
meeting Kitty, and going with her to Primerose
Hill.

I was startled, and at first fell into a
furious rage ; but I saw he had been saved
from a terrible sin, and I calmed down.
At last I got his leave to tell it all to Mr.
Fletcher, under the same promise. Mr.
Fletcher agreed with me that Davie was the
strangest, most romantic fellow that ever
was born ; but he got a very influential
legal friend of his (the man, in fact, who

had conducted the prosecution for the
Government) to go with him to the Home
Secretary, and, with Davie's reluctant
leave, they laid the whole case before him.
The great man listened patiently, and then
said, " I daresay it may be all true, but I
fear it's too late to do anything now. Do
you wish me to communicate with the
judge who tried your friend ? "

'•'Oh, no, Sir George, thank you, very
much," said Mr. Fletcher. 'roberts
wouldn't have let us speak to you on the
matter, if anything were to be said publicly
about it. But we thought, perhaps, you
could have a word said to the doctor who
has charge of the convicts going out, and
to the governor at Sydney, to the effect
there was strong reason to believe Roberts
was innocent of the charges against him,
and so get him better treatment, and an
early ticket-of- leave — "

The Secretary of State slightly smiled,
and said, " Xo, I can't say anything about
his probable innocence ;" then added graciously,
" but in consideration of the great

experience and legal acumen of my friend
here, and the high character you give the
man, I will do something to soften the
prisoner's lot ; and if his wife could join
him out there, I'll take care matters are
made as easy for him as the case admits."

In the meantime, I was taking Maggie
and the children to Newgate for a farewell
meeting with her husband, as he was to
go to Woolwich that night. When I left
them together, she, poor thing, was crying
in his arms as if her heart was breaking,
and he wasn't much better, and the poor
little dears sat on the floor wondering. I
came back before their time for parting
was quite up (they were only allowed a
quarter of an hour) because I thought,
perhaps, if I got talking with the turnkey
he oughtn't notice how the time was going,
and they'd have five minutes more. So I
heard Maggie say, thro' her tears, as she
was trying to bid her husband good-bye, —

I know, Davie, I haven't always been
a good wife to you — not as kind and loving
as I wish — I mean I know I haven't sways

kept my temper — but oh, my darling, it's
drear work when the heart's aching, and
the children crying, and but little money
coming in. . . . But, Davie, I think sometimes
of a bygone and better day. . . .
Don't you remember, dear, that day you
first took me to those tea-gardens . . .
and the music, and how we came home bv
moonlight. . I think — I'm sure there'll
be a happy time for us somewhere or other
by-and-by — a long while to wait, maybe,
but it 'will come — and then I shall be
so good-tempered, and all your old love
will come back to me."

Maggie, Maggie, darling, don't 'ee
break my heart. I love you now better
than I've done in all my life before."

Then I could see her smile so beautifully,
as she tried to put a brave face on
it, while the turnkey moved away from me
towards them, and I heard her say, in
answer to something Davie had whispered,
Ah, but you see, I shan't trouble you
much with my sharp tongue now for many
a day. . . ."

And he answered, holding her hand to
the last moment, and looking into her face,
Aye, aye, wife, if I could only be sure of
hearing your dear voice scolding me every
morning ! Good-bye, good-bye ! I've never
been fit to hold a candle to you, Maggie ;
but God is good, and may be He'll bring
us together again somewhere, when I've
learnt all He's got to teach me."

I'm as sure of that, Davie, as of our
love for these little darlings."

And she pressed the youngest child to
her heart, and the door closed on us, but
not before he gave me a look and a farewell
shake of the hand of that sort men
don't forget.

I have never seen him again. . God
bless thee, dear old friend !

Just before Davie left for Woolwich,
Mr. Fletcher came with a bit of paper
from the Secretary of State, and he told
him the good news, such as it was, which
he brought from that gentleman, though
he and I both agreed it was better to say
nothing about it to his wife till he was gone.

But it was worth a miglitv deal to the unhappy
man during all the sufferings, bodily
and mental, of his sea voyage, for it kept
hope alive, and was always something
pleasant to think of in the darker hours,
which were many. Aye I the hope of his
wife and children joining him — that meant
a wonderful deal of comfort and peace.

Mr. Fletcher told me that as he parted
with Davie, the poor fellow was very full
of self-reproach when he was thanking him
for all he said he had done for him ; and
though he knew it was right for Davie to
feel so, yet at last he couldn't help saving,
Nay, nay, my poor friend, don't think it's
quite so bad. VTe all have our sins, and
our punishment for them, too, thank God,
and I believe, after all, you're a much
better fellow than I am. I believe you did
very wrong to go in for that conspiracy,
but yon did it from a pure and noble
motive. You did what was far worse when
you broke your promise, and went and
talked with that poor outcast on Primrose
Hill. But you are eine across the sea to

save your wife the shame and agony of
letting her and all the world believe you
had been unfaithful to your marriage vows,
and for that I honour you more than I can
tell. Your soul, it may be, Davie, is whiter
than mine. Your temptations and trials
have been far greater than mine, and,
according to your light, remember, you
have worked and suffered nobly, and far
more than T, to get justice and right for
your fellow-countrymen. You'll be much
nearer the throne, Davie, by-and-by than I
shall, or many a man who scorns you
now. Cheer up, and trust in God, my
boy." "Wasn't it like that man to talk so
to poor Davie ? And he meant every word
he said.

CHAPTER XY.

When Mr. Fletcher told me all the Home
Secretary had said, I told him I had already
settled to take a passage for Maggie
and her boy in a ship that was to sail soon
after the convict ship, if she were willing
to go ; but I thought it best for them both
I should say nothing about it till he was
gone. I added, I meant to take all her
expenses on myself.

*' You shan't do that," said he; "at
least, I shall add about 40?., which I am
making up for them among my friends."

The Defence Committee added 101.,
which they would have given to a barrister
for Davie's defence, and then I went to
tell Maggie what we were doing for her,
and that she might follow her husband as
soon as she was ready. I shall never forget

that evening. She was a good deal
altered and broken down since the trial,
and the boy had been very poorly. Her
eyes were red and heavy, and her whole
appearance sadly different from what it
often used to be. She looked up as I
entered the little room, and seemed pleased
as I think she always did — to see me.

Have you seen him again, Jem ? " said
she ; then added, " Tell, I suppose I've
had the last word and the last kiss for
seven long years." Then she sat down
and covered her face with her apron. It
seems she had never thought it was possible
for her also to go out to Australia, and she
only thought of convicts as working in
gangs and chains, and never being allowed
to see or speak to a friend.

Then I told her what the Home Secretary
had said and done, and what Mr. Fletcher
and I had arranged for her, and that she,
too, might go to Sydney very soon.

Oh, Jem, Jem — true-hearted brother! "
was all she could say, and then she cried
like a child, and threw her arms round my

neck, and gave me a kiss that repaid mo
for all, and it was many a day before I
could bear the thought of having a kiss
from any other woman.

Ah, she did look beautiful and good that
nighfc as she stood there — true wife as she
was ; a blessing be with her wherever she
may be ! As we stood for a second looking
straight in each other's faces, I remember
even now how the sun was shining in at
their little window, and the brightness fell
on some flowers in pots which Davie and I
had given her. She was always fond of
flowers and pretty colours; and now the
old days at Broadfield came back to me,
when we all used to go gathering primroses
and cowslips together.

One word in conclusion about poor
Kitty Barber before I finish off what I
have to say about my friends.

Davie had whispered to me, as I was
bidding him good-bye for the last time,
I say, Jem, perhaps you'll see if you can
do anything for that poor hussy — you
know who. I told her to send you her

address at Manchester.'^ So I'll just mention
here that I spoke to Mr. Fletcher, and he
wrote to a brother clergyman in Salford,
who found her out, and gave as good an account
of the girl, on the whole, as one would
expect. I wrote now and again to her
myself, and at first got fair answers. But
I thought I had better run down myself
and see her ; so I got leave for a week, and
went. She met me at the inn, as I asked
her, with a queer mixture of satisfaction
and shame ; but there was something about
her looks that gave me a deal of pain, and
her breath stank of spirits. We walked
up and down near the railway station, ina
bye street.

Yes, I've kep' myself steady, Jem, you
may depend on that," said she. " A girl
that has once been loved by Davie Roberts
has no business with other men, though
he was lagged like a felon. And I kno
he did love me once. Perhaps it's a mercy
for him he wouldn't have me, but it would
have been a blessed thine for me. And
I tell you I hate that vile, stuck-up thing

VOL. II. . u

that got him away from me. Hasn't Old
Nick got her safe down there yet ? "

Hush, hush, Kitty ; don't talk like
this. It'll do no good."

But he did love me once — I know he
did ; and I mean to keep myself straight
for his sake, and for that last kiss he gave
me " (her voice broke down, and she sobbed
a bit, poor thing). " But it is a dreary
sort of life for me now, you know, Jem . . .
devilish hard to bear I can tell sou . . .
and to keep straight. . . . For I've plenty
of admirers, I can tell you. . . . But
it won't be for honos I've sot an
awful pain in my side now and then " (and
she gasped for breath). . . '' But it's just
like you to come all this way to see after
me, and if I could give a blessing, Jem,
I'd give it to you — only I'm more used
to the other things

said the best I could to her, which
wasn't worth much, and shook hands and
promised to see her once again before I
left Manchester, and begged her to see
Mr. Fletcher's friend as often as she could,

and to go to his church. She only shook
her head very sorrowfully, and went away.
But the very next night I met her quite
drunk, and saw her carried off to the lock-up.
The inspector told me they had had
her a dozen times already, and she used to
pray them to keep her there altogether,
but of course they couldn't do that. She
kept off the streets, but she had taken to
drinking instead.

The next day I went to the Borough
gaol ^\dth a kind lady the clergyman told
me of. "We found the prisoners were all just
gone into the chapel, as the lady had been
detained ; but when I found that Thomas
Wright, the celebrated '' prisoner's friend,"
was going to address them, I asked leave
to go in and hear him. A true friend to
prisoners " that man was, and we had a
specimen of his power over them that day.
He had gone up into the pulpit after the
chaplain had read the service, and rose upto
speak. The matron was just then
speaking to the lady and me, so that we
didn't catch his first words, but, looking
u 2

lip, we saw almost all the women in tears.
What can he have said, we wondered, to
have such an effect on them so sudden ?
When we asked, we found that when he
rose up and faced those galleries crowded
with unhappy women of all ages, he was
looking at them with that look of wonderful
compassion on his countenance which
I've never seen on any other human face ;
and then he just said, very quietly, " Oh, if
your mothers could see you now ! " There
was scarcely a dry eye among them. Some
of them were sobbing bitterly. Among
them I noticed poor Kitty Barber. And
that was the last I ever saw of her. She
was taken from the chapel to the prison
hospital, and the lady said I had better
not go to see her again. She would look
after her, which I know she did, like an
angel of mercy. But the girl died in a
few days. Poor little Puss-in-boots ! If
she had but had a good home and a mother
to look after her. .

To return to those whose home she had
helped to break up and make desolate.

Mr. and Mrs. Fletclier came down with
Maggie and the two children to Graves -
end when I went to see the dear souls off
to the colony, about three or four weeks
after the convict-ship had sailed. It was
a great comfort to us that the parson and
his kind lady came along with us, and it
helped me to bear up and not make a fool
of myself. But, do what I would, my
thoughts were sad, and I couldn't cheer
her up, nor the little darlings as I ought
to have done, for I knew I should never
look on her face again.

So they went sailing away over the seas —
husband and wife — not together — yet the
one not very far behind the other ; so that
before Davie had been working on the
roads in the colony a month, one evening
he found himself in the governor's office
face to face with his wife, the wife whom,
when he last parted from her, he hadn't
expected to see again for seven years. I
was told it was a strangely sad yet joyful
meeting, for when he clasped her to his

breast she felt the irons on his wrists,
while the cropped hair and rough smock
also told their tale.

But the governor, in a stately way, gave
them comfort. Davie was to be taken off
the roads and put to carpentering, and in a
few months, if he continued to behave ashe
had been doing, and if his wife could
keep a couple of rooms and do some of the
prison washing, Davie might be allowed to
live with her outside the prison, and in a
couple of years he might get his ticket of-leave.


So there was a deal more joy for the two
aching hearts than sorrow in that meeting.
And then, when they met again and could
sit down together by themselves, Davie
told his wife all about his meeting Kitty
Barber that night, adding, '' I knew how
she would put it, and what she wanted you
to believe, and I knew how Mr. Haughton
would have made it all seem true, and I
thought it would half, perhaps quite, kill
you, and that perhaps you wouldn't believe
me, Maggie, when I told you how it really

was ; and so you see I thought it better to
come out here, than that you should believe
I had been false to you, darling."

Then she looked at him, but couldn't
speak at first. When she could, he told
me she just whispered, '' But it was all
false what she and Mr. Haughton would
have said, Davie ? "

'' False as the father of lies, my own
wife, or I never, never could have spoken
to you again."

'' And you mean you let them send you
out here rather than give me the shame
and pain of thinking you had played me
false ? "

"That's about the size of it, my Maggie."

Well, I think it would have killed me
if I had believed them, for I shouldn't have
rightly known whether I was on earth orin
hell. Davie, we both have our faults,
and One above knows they have cost us
dear, but you have done what seems to mea
grand thing. I can't give you a crown
in heaven for it, dear ; but perhaps some
One else may. And I can do this."

Then lie knelt on one knee, and took
his hand and laid her cheek against it, and
said, " I'll try my best to be a good and
loving wife to you, Davie, with Grod's help,
all our days."

Dear, dear wife, pray for me that I
may be a good and true husband to you,
and worthy of all you've done for me, and
of what you think about me. But I'm
not worthy now, Maggie. If I ever am,
it will be your and Jem's doing."

I had many capital letters from them in
after days, when he was free to go where
he liked. In one of them Maggie writes : —

And oh, you would like to see us, dear
old Jem, as we are having our supper
under the trees at sunset, with the children
tumbling about on the grass-plat. . . .
We've nothing to wish for, if only our lost
lamb and dear, dear Nelly were here, instead
of their being saints in heaven. But Estella
has found out our own little darling up thereby
this time, and I know they are good
company. But I would like poor Jem
Burt to have her company here on earth.

All ! well, there must be a skeleton in
every house. . . ' No,' says Davie, when
I read him that, * it's a schoolmaster, nota
skeleton.' So I'll try and learn all my
schoolmaster's lessons as fast as I can, and
then, Mr. Woodford (I ought to mister you
now, I suppose, that you've become such
a big man, but I won't), we have such
beautiful flowers . . . and then the music —
ah ! it is lovely. Well, then, too, we've
got a first-rate parson, almost as good as
Mr. Fletcher. . . . And do you know,
Jem, I'm never out of temper now (except
when the butter won't come), and Davie
says I make a splendid dairy-woman and a
tip-top wife, and am as saucy as ever I can
be. So, no wonder if I'm the admiration
of all the colony. There ! that naughty
boy came and looked over my shoulder,
and would write those last words himself.
But, of course, what he says is aU quite
true ; and I may add, that if ever I get ina
passion with him, and he calls me ' Peggy,'
it tames me at once. So, having it all his
own way, with nothing to vex him, he is

such a good boy. and he's becoming quite
a leading politician,' and. will be in the
House some time, as sure as Christmas-day
comes here at Midsummer ; for I can tell
you he takes large building jobs, and talks
at meetings, and the folks here do think a
lot of him, and there's none can talk him
down ; and he bids me tell you he preaches
Lovett ' to them, so that good man didn't
live for naught, but will help the New
World on as well as the Old. Oh, we are
so good and happy out here, now, you
can't think. Of course we have our troubles,
but nothings to fret about. God has been
very good to us, and you may believe we
thank Him for it. And you'll believe, too,
dear old friend, how we thank you, too,
and love you, and think of you every day
of our lives, and we do hope to hear some
day that you've got a very happy home
and dear little wife of your own. God
bless you, Jem. Good-bye. — Your loving
sister, Maggie."

There, I thought that letter was worth

keeping. And so it was — all yellow and
faded as it is now.

In a letter from Davie himself, he writes
in just as good spirits, and said he'd been
to see " brave Jem Burt," who had got his
ticket, and was working pretty cheerfully
up in the bush ; but Jem wanted to come
and live near Maggie and himself. He had
also seen Frost and Jones, and hoped by-and-by
to see Williams. They were all
pretty well.

The old original Chartist movement had
at length collapsed, and with the exception
of Lovett's admirable education work at
the national Hall (though that, too, was
stopped for want of funds, unhappily, not
very long after), it seemed to have left
little fruit. But its lessons had sunk deep
into the hearts of a few generous, Christian-minded
men, foremost among whom were
the Rev. F. D. Maurice, Rev. Fred. Robertson,
Rev. Charles Kingsley, Thomas Hughes,
J. M. Ludlow, and others. Mr. Kingsley's
noble volumes, "Alton Locke," Mr.
Maurice's (as I think) still finer " Learning

and Working," and the " Christian Socialist"
movement, with the Working Men's
College in Great Ormond Street, were all
valuable and most beneficent results of the
work in which so many of us hard-handed,
and often thick-headed, worries had been
doing our best, often blindly, foolishly,
even savagely, but still earnestly and faithfully,
according to our light, and moved
thereto — at least, I think so — by the best
of motives, viz., sympathy with the sufferings
of others, hatred of oppression, and a
thirst for the rights of freemen. It certainly
was not all in vain ; for, besides the
benevolent labours of the men I have just
mentioned, there can, I think, be no doubt
that, as Rufford said it would be, the
governing classes took a deal more pains
to amend the laws affecting our social condition
and rights as working men, and to
legislate in favour of the extension of social
improvements, in consequence of this ten
years' Chartist agitation, which cost many
of its promoters so dear. I believe one
effect of those three clergymen's work, also,

has .been to do for a good many workingmen
what Mr. Fletcher did for me and
others long before, i. e., showed them there
might be a deal of good in a parson, and
be done his him. But, since they began
working, there have been many of the cloth
following in their wake, and brave, goodmen
they seem to me to be.

Richard Moore, who had been one of the
original twelve that first launched the
People's Charter, continued a staunch
worker in the moral force and educational
movement to the last. He was one of the
foremost leaders in the Free Press agitation,
and was chairman of the Society for
the Repeal of the Taxes on Knowledge.

True-hearted Bembridge, too, worked
on in the same way till his last illness, and
among his other good works was a great
struggle (hi which, at last, the publicans
beat him) to get a Free Public Library for
Marylebone. He was also one of the chief
organizers of the workmen's demonstration
on Primrose Hill in celebration of the tercentenary
of Shakespeare's birth, when

none of the upper class folks would take
any notice of the day — in London, at least.
Honour to the memory of these men, and
many like them !

After the Roberts' were off to the new
world, I got my father and mother to leave
Broadfield, for he was growing too old for
the work at Broadfield Hall, besides much
of it being rough work out of doors ; and
I didn't at all like going to the old scenes.
So I coaxed him and mother to come to a
nice little place I took for them in Kentish
Town, where mother could still look on
green trees, and where I fitted up a small
workshop for father, as I knew he'd be a
deal happier for working a bit, as long ashe
had the strength for it. I opened a
sort of technical class there on winter
nights for youngsters, which amused him
very much. Maggie's mother had been out
of all her troubles in this world (and I hope
in a much better one) some months before
the trial, and the good aunt at Galley-wood,
who had no children of her own,
had persuaded her husband, moved thereto

by Maggie's sorrowing appeal, to let her
take the two youngest children and bring
them up at the farm. The other two were
earning their own living ; and the father
went muddling on till he could scrape the
roads no longer, and died in the workhouse.


And now years have passed away, and I
have a happy home of my own, and a dear
good wife, and some little darlings, and weare
all as merry together as kittens at play.

]\lr. Fletcher married us, and christened
our pets, and I hoped he would have
prayed at my dying bed and oyer my grave.
But that was not to be. He worked too
hard and loved too much to last. But he's
better and happier where he is.

I have now become an employer in a
pretty large business, but I haven't forgot
the days when I was a journeyman, and I
believe I've tried to do what little I could
as an employer to help journeymen and
apprentices according to what I should
have liked masters and foremen to have
done for me. You may sometimes see

journeymen, when they become employers,
as I think I said somewhere before, act the
tyrant worse than any who have always
been what's called gentlemen. But then,
again, I've seen workmen turn against an
employer who has done all he possibly
could for them (sometimes doing it at
his own cost), and treat him shamefully.
There are faults to be mended on both
sides, and sometimes, I think, we want a
whipping all round.

But, then, there's a deal to be done, also,
it strikes me, as to mending the political
machine. Looking back, and after thinking
of our Chartist days, I can see, or
fancy I see, how politics have got to do
with most of our troubles, apart from
moral or religious matters; and that's
why, among other lesser reasons, I've
written what my friend has made into this
tale. Noble-hearted Lovett has been taken
to his rest since I began writing about
him. His faithful and worthy ally, Cambridge,
sleeps in Kendal Green Cemetery,
after having helped more than one clergyman

to see that they must try to establish
the kingdom of God on earth, and not
merely prepare men for it, as they say, in
heaven. Many other of Lovett's best supporters
have also passed away; and I
wanted English workmen to let me help
them to remember some of the lessons
which the labours and sufferings, failures
and successes of all these true patriots
should teach us.

Brother working men, let me ask you,
as the last word I shall write, to beware
of selfish, unscrupulous leaders, and their
thick-and-thin supporters. Many years'
experience have told me (though, as I have
not much book learning, I may be wrong)
that nothing keeps the world back so much
as jealousy and back-biting among leading
men and their partisans. I don't think
the devil does half so much harm by his
straight going sinners, as by his sneaking,
backbiting jealous saints There are always
plenty of good folks trying to remedy
wrongs ; and they would soon do it if they
didn't quarrel, and envy and hate one

VOL. 11. X

another as they seem to do. It is all these
dirty tricks which strike down the goodmen
and true, who ought to be leading the
Away, and give unworthy men power to do
mischief or hinder good. I saw it said
somewhere, once, that " half the time of the
wise is spent in correcting the errors of
the good," which may be very true, and
shows how careful politicians, philanthropists,
clergymen, and everybody else ought
to be, not only to desire to be of use, but
to learn the best way of being so. But
I'm quite sure half the strength of both
wise and good is lost in resisting the egotism,
ambition, and envy of those who get
the credit of being honest and able, w^lien
they're neither.

80 that's the moral I learnt from the
Chartist movement as it went on forty
years ago in this old England of ours. And
I hope and pray my hard-handed, and
warm-hearted, and often long - headed
brothers of the journeymen class won't let
the labours, and sufferings, and failures
of the great true-hearted chiefs of that

movement, nor the errors and sins of those
who ruined it, be altogether forgotten.
Heaven help us all, say I, to know and to
follow those only who are worthy to be our
leaders, and Him most of all who, by self-sacrifice,
showed us what a leader should
be.

Tale END

X 2

AN ORIGINAL LETTER BY THE LATE
WILLIAM Loveth.

18 3, Totteubam Court Road,
Oct. 10th, 1841.
Dear Sir, — Having been very busy preparing our
rules for publication, and with other matters connected
with the formation of our Society, I have been
obliged to delay the answering of your kind letter
till now. I am glad to perceive that you are now,
with us, convinced of the necessity of " Universal
Suffrage," though from a portion of your letter you
do not seem inclined to assist us in the agitation for
the People's Charter as a whole, and this arising in
my opinion from an erroneous notion which you, in
common with others, entertain respecting the last live
points, as they have been called. I will now, however,
as briefly as possible, lay before you my own
views on the subject, so that, on comparing them with
yours, your judgment will decide on the respective
weight of the arguments on both sides. In the
People's Charter I recognize an efficient means for
securing a great end, just and equal legislation. This

end you admit cannot be secured under the present
suffrage, as the selfish interests which class representation
engenders, joined to the overbearing power
which our aristocracy are enabled to possess on account
of its limitation, will ever cause the House of Commons
to be the mere mouth-piece of wealth and rank, rather
than that of the whole people. Then, to remedy this,
you will say with me, extend the suffrage as is proposed
by the Charter. But, I reply, something more is
necessary to secure the good end, namely, just and
equal legislation. Of what use is the giving me the
vote and the freedom of choice if I can only choose
rich men ? — if I cannot be allowed to choose those
legislators who will honestly represent my views and
interests ? The mere power of voting would therefore be
useless, and a mere mockery, unless the present j^i^o perte
qualifications are abolished — one of the points which
you consider non-essential, or, to use your own
language, " not involving the great principles of right
and justice." It seems to me to involve both; it has
been likened to the mockery of giving universal
suffrage to the sparrows with the object of choosing
birds to watch over their interests, but restricting
them so that they could only choose hawks. Need I
say much to a man of your judgment to show you
that equally strong reasons could be urged in favour
of the ballot, another of those points ? Is it not equally
a mockery, a cruelty, to give a workman, a shopkeeper,
or a householder a vote, and not protect him so that
he can give his vote conscientiously ? Regarding
equal representation, another point of the Charter, is
it not equally opposed, and does it not essentially mar
?i\\just and equal legislation when a little rotten place
like Thetford, containing about 160 voters, sends two

members to Parliament to nullify the votes of the two
members sent bj such a place as Westminster, in
which there are upwards of 13,000 voters ? Let us
suppose we had universal suffrage without equal
representation, and see how it would operate by taking
ten small boroughs and ten large ones.

Harwich has . 1,032 males above 21 . Westminster has 48,600

Thetford 831 „ Liverpool 46,320

Cheltenham . 1,253 „ Finsbm-y 53,962

Andover 1,191 „ Bristol 24,041

Marlborough . 1,006 ,, Tower Hamlets 72,604

Witness 800 „ Manchester 44,880

Knaresborough 1,501 „ Marylebone . 56,231

Richmond 1,133 „ Southwark 32,188

Tavistock 1,345 ,, Leeds 29,615

Huntingdon . 1,299 „ Hull 11,9.35

11,391 420,376

Return 20 Members. Return 20 Members.

This has been calculated from the census before last, not having the
last to refer to ; but similar results would be seen by the last-now

you see that the votes of 420,376 would be
neutralized or nullified by those of 11,391 persons;
and if the whole of the united kingdom was dissected
in the same manner similar results would be seen.
In all those, as well as in other small places, the
influence of wealth and power is great, and corruption
is notorious among them — hence I conclude that,
without equal representation, the political good
derived by the majority would be prevented by the
corruptions of the minority, so that just and equal
legislation the great object of our Charter, could not
be obtained. The next point, moment of members,
I consider equally essential, for without this we could
not have freedom of choice — we should still be obliged
to choose rich men, or persons who could afford to
spend three or four hundred a year, as members of
Parliament, which poor men could not do. And we
should remember that rich men are not always rich
in thought, and in those qualities fitting for legislation.

Many persons who are now fagging in the
counting-house, toiling for the Press, or in some way
to obtain a livelihood, would be soon the lights of the
Senate House, if members of Parliament were paid
for their services, as servants of the people ought to
be. Annual Parliaments, though not equally essential,
are necessary in order to enable the people to correct
their mistakes as speedily as possible ; for I think
they would make many mistakes at first, in choosing
persons of great promises and blustering pretensions,
whose inefficiency would speedily be seen when they
came to be tested by the common-sense of honest men
met for a glorious object. It is because I wish to seethe
House of Commons speedily purged and purified
of such persons that I am an advocate of annual
Parliaments. The argument of learning their duties
amounts to nothing — common-sense, and, above all,
common honesty, are the great essentials for a legislator,
and a great deal of the forms and ceremonies,
now thought important, would be swept away, if we
had an honest House of Commons.

In this hasty and imperfectly-written letter I have
endeavoured to show you that all the points of the
Charter are essential to the great end, and, being so,
cannot in any way be considered pa7'ti/ politics ; for
surely those cannot be considered party questions
which have reference to the equal rights of all. But
then it may be urged Chartism is very unpopular
among a large class of persons, and we shall have
greater difficulty in getting those along with us if we
adopt the Charter as a whole than if we contended
for a part only, that of the suffrage. I think there is
great error in this, for taking the middle-class of
the United Kingdom (and not those of one locality

only), we shall find that universal suffrage is the most
obnoxious point with them; let us get them over this,
and be assured we shall have little difficulty in getting
them with us for the whole. But shall we give up
what we believe to be necessary for the accomplishment
of our great object, because violent and foolish
men have rendered it unpopular ? As well might
Christians desire to give up their name or drop their
creed, because violent, intolerant, and persecuting
persons have assumed the name, as we Chartists to
give up our name, or any portion of our principles,
because fools and madmen have declared themselves
to be the high priests of Chartism. No, let us rather,
by our actions, prove that our principles are just and
our object worthy of support, so that good men cannot
much longer fail to appreciate them, and bad men, if
not now convicted of their folly, will sink into the
insignificance they deserve. I would urge you therefore
to investigate still further the Charter as awJwle,
and if eventually you think with me that all its points
are essential to good government, you will with me
be resolved to support it through good report and
evil, and through every kind of persecution that the
enemies above us and below us think proper to inflict.
You will then use your talents and your influence to
propagate its principles throughout society, and to
show to your fellow-men the necessity of uniting in
every just and peaceful manner to make it the law of
the land, through the instrumentality of which peace,
happiness, and harmony may be made to supersede
war, oppression, misery, and crime. An address from
you embracing these views, and at the same time
condemnatory of the violence and folly we all lament,
would do incalculable good, and both Mr. Lettering
II. Y

ton and myself would feel honoured in seeking to-obtain
for it any publicity in our power. In a short
time I hope to be able to send you copies of our laws,
by which you will see that we contemplate something
of your idea of an annual conference. Hoping we
shall have your able assistance in forwarding the
objects of the National Association in your town,
I remain, yours faithfully,

Wm. Lovett.
Rev. Henry Solly,
Yeovil.

APPENDIX B.

Since the foregoing "recollections" were written,
a friend has reminded me of the very interesting
scene which took place, during the height of the
Chartist agitation, in the market-place at Nottingham,
when the late Sir Charles Napier, the hero of Scinde,
was sent down with a strong body of troops to that
town to preserve order. Large and excited crowds
were constantly parading the streets, and a collision
between the troops and the people seemed inevitable,
when Sir Charles, having mounted a waggon in full
uniform, addressed them in a speech so telling, and
yet so kindly and sympathetic, that from that time
the danger of a fight was over. He told them how
earnestly he desired to see their real grievances redressed,
but he also told them what he had witnessed
of the horrors of war, entreating them to look to

other means than bloodshed for ob taming what they
desired, and not to place him and his men in the
terrible position of having to cut down their own
countrymen in the midst of their homes and their
families. An eye-witness described the whole scene
as one of the most affecting he had ever witnessed.
The people cheered the old warrior enthusiastically,
and quietly dispersed.

ST. John's square.
