J

"LI B RA FLY

OF THE
U N I VLR5 City
or 1 Ll Noise

6Z3

vl

BY

JULIAN STUEGIS

AUTHOR OF
'LITTLE comedies'

'an accomplished gentleman'
john-dreams '

IN There VOLUMES
VOL. L

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXII

^

^

-•^

?i3
V. I

CHAPTER I.

The world had been very kind of late to
John Wilmading Kirby, Member for Ked-gate.
Mr Kirby was fond of acknowledging;
the kindness of the world ; but he always
added to this frank acknowledgment
an abrupt nod and a smile, which seemed
to hint that it would have ozone ill with the
world, if it had not been kind to him. It
was well for the world that (to use one
of the Member's good plain words) it had
squared Mr Kirby. Had it been necessary
for the success of this determined person

VOL. I. A

that the framework of Society should fall in
ruins about him, he would have been found
amonof the shattered fragments of the Philistine
temple, still conscious of his justice
and of his uncommon tenacity.

Perhaps Mr Kirby had never been better
pleased with the order of the universe than
on this evening in April. The causes of
his contentment were many and sufficient.
In the first place Nature was doing her
duty. The evening was so soft and beautiful,
that one of the curtains of the diningroom
had been drawn aside and the long
window stood open to the air. The politician
sitting at ease in a big arm-chair, with
his glass of good claret at his hand and
the wood-fire cheerful at his feet, in a comfortable
corner where there was no suspicion
of draughts, allowed his eyes to rest
on the smooth lawn, where above the dark
mass of a great cedar a single star was
shining. Nor was his pleasure limited by his

vision ; for his progressive mind went leisurely
out into the twilight, and considered
the wide park, all grassy slopes and hollows
and majestic trees ; the stables ; the flower-garden
; the kitchen-garden ; the orchard ;
the coverts ; the cricket-ground ; the prosperous
farms whose occupants were punctual
with their rent. Now all these things
were very pleasant to this sanguine gentleman,
though none of them would ever come
to him. It made him glow and chuckle
to think that this fine property was waiting
for his young cousin Dick Hartland; and
that every day of the boy's long minority
was increasing its value in the market. Mr
Kirby's heart, which always warmed towards
prosperity, glowed with sevenfold ardour
at the prosperity of a kinsman. He had a
very strong and genuine feeling for his kin.
He liked to push on a relation almost as
well as to push on himself. He could not
stand a fellow, as he would say with or

without an oath, who would not stick
through thick and thin to his own flesh and
blood. In Mr Kirby himself the family
blood was of the reddest, and the family
flesh bountiful and firm. Too luxurious a
diet was not good for him ; and so it maybe
said that the second cause of his contentment
on this April evening was the
care which he had taken of himself since
the end of last year's session. He had
been living in the bosom of his family,
taking regular exercise, avoiding political
discussion where there was any possibility
of irritating contradiction, eating less than
usual, and counteracting his moderate cups
with frequent bumpers of Vichy water. He
was like a giant refreshed ; and he had
brought his vigorous digestion to a most
comfortable old English country - house,
where the cook was above criticism. Moreover,
the lady of the house, his cousin,
mother of the heir (and this may be reckoned

as another cause of contentment), was
a charming hostess. He liked to say of
her that she was the nicest little woman
in the world. To the pleasant abode of a
most pleasant lady he had come without
his wife and with all the freedom of a
bachelor ; and the man, who had been
asked to meet him, was his old friend, Mrs
Hartland's brother-in-law, Hervie Langton,
who, clever fellow though he was, liked
better to listen than to talk.

All these were causes of pleasure ; but
stronger than any one of these was the fact
that, after a silence long as the winter-sleep
of the dormouse, he was going to make a
speech, and to make it under the most
favourable conditions. He was to be conveyed
in a comfortable carriage to the
neighbouring town of Eedgate ; and to
speak in the famous *' Institute," which he
knew to be well warmed and well ventilated.
He knew the audience well too.

and knew that they admired their stout
member heartily. He knew also that all
reporters were to be excluded.

Mr Kirby was happy. His glass stood
on a little table beside him ; his napkin lay
loose across his ample waistcoat ; his big
legs were pushed towards the fire. He was
every inch a prosperous gentleman — and
there were many inches.

You may depend upon it' said Mr
Kirby with a slow wink, " that they won't
last another session. Their policy is the
dam'dest stuff and nonsense. The country
is sick of it."

And who is the country *? " asked Her-vie
Langdon, who was sitting on the other
side of the fire with one of his short legs
crossed over the other ; he was smiling
under his thick beard, as his manner was.

Everybody's sick of them' continued
the politician. " Society's tired of 'em, and
wants a change of performers ; the working

men hate 'em ; and the middle class
are angry, because trade's bad."

'* Is that the fault of the Government 1 "

Mr Kirby pulled himself up in his chair,
pulled down his waistcoat, took his coffee
from the footman, and finally winked.
That's as may be," he answered. " Those
fellows don't discriminate. They ain't educated
up to it. Nobody knows better than
you, my dear Hervie, what English middle-class
education is."

Hervie Laud-don nodded and raised his
fine eyebrows.

^' They are taught to calculate interest,"
continued the other ; *' that's what middle-class
education is. And when they go into
business, they find tables where the interest
is calculated for them. They are strong
enough to smash this Government — or any
Government, if it comes to that — but they
are the stupidest class in Europe, bar none."
Here Mr Kirby paused, struck a match.

lighted the cigar which he had been holding
between two of his big fingers, blew a
light cloud, and then removing the cigar
from his lips delivered himself of this remarkable
statement — *' The middle class
are fools."

The smile which had been twinkling in
Hervie Langdon's eyes and lifting the corners
of his moustache changed suddenly
into one of those hearty bursts of laughter,
which had never failed to surprise Mr
Kirby during a friendship of twenty years
or more. Mr Langdon lay back in his
chair, and laughed, as he never laughed at
any of his friend's jokes, till he was obliged
to wipe his eyes. As the noise of his laughter
died away, a small boy who was half
hidden behind his chair asked innocently,
Are they all fools ? "

Hullo ! " said Hervie Langdon ; " what
are you doing here, young man ? Why
didn't you go with the other children ? "

He put his hand back and drew his little
nephew into the fuller light. In this light
Dick Hartland's brown hair, which was
rather rough, showed a decidedly yellow
tinge. In his mother's possession was a
fine pale wisp, which proved to her satisfaction
at least that her baby had been a
golden-haired baby. Everybody liked the
boy's looks, though perhaps he had few
claims to beauty. His skin was clear if
somewhat freckled ; his forehead was wide,
and there was good space between his blue
eyes ; the cheek-bones looked as if they
might be prominent, when the cheeks had
lost their childish roundness, and the chin
was rather square. Dragged from his post
of observation this little hero showed no
embarrassment in the presence of his elders.
He looked his uncle Hervie in the face with
his inquiring eyes, as he answered him.

I like to stay with the men," he said ;
"and I like politics."

Ho, ho ! " cried Mr Kirby, who was
sucking at his big cigar; he blew a great
ring of smoke, and chuckled.

But is it true, uncle Hervie," asked the
boy, " that all the middle class are fools ? "
Mr Langdon drew his nephew on to the arm
of his chair, and pointing his cigarette at
his distinguished friend, said shortly, " Ask
him ; he's a great Liberal ; he ought to
know."

*' I won't speak ex officious said Mr Kirby
with a wondrous knowing look : " not ex
cathedra, as I may say, ha, ha ! " He
laughed, but on this occasion his friend
did not.

You be off to your mother," Mr Lang-don
said to Dick ; '* and tell Ossie and
Betty to go to bed. Good-night, dear boy ;
and put off being a politician as long as
you can."

Why ? " asked Dick, pushing his hair
back from his forehead and preparing to

receive instruction ; but his uncle only
patted his cheek, and smiled as usual.
His uncle Hervie's smiles were very mysterious
to Dick, in part perhaps because
they took place under cover of his beard.
They seemed to mean a great deal to the
little boy. He used to think about them,
when he was alone.

Now it happened that on that evening
Mr Langdon's son had not waited for his
father's commands, but had gone to bed
because he felt lazy, as he often did.
Therefore Master Osbert was already drifting
peacefully towards slumber, when he
was disturbed by the sudden entrance of his
cousin. Dick was very wide awake, and
seemed even more so ; he had the air of a
conspirator ; he advanced on tiptoe, and
spoke in a hoarse unnatural whisper; he
was possessed by a mighty purpose, intent
on great adventure. " Osric, Ossie ! " he
whispered. There was no answer but a

kind of grunt. '' Get up," said Dick. There
came from under the bedclothes a sound
like '* Whoffor,"

Encouraged by this sign of intelligence
Dick took a flying leap on to the bed.
Oh do get up," he said dragging the clothes
from his reluctant cousin's chin ; " don't
be so awfully lazy. It's such a splendid
plan ; we'll get out, and get on to the
back of the carriage, and go to Newgate
without old Peter knowing, and hear
him speak." Now " Peter " was the name
which these little boys for some humorous
reason only known to themselves
had conferred upon Mr John Wilmading
Kirby.

There, isn't any fun in hearing a speech,"
said Ossie sleepily.

*not if we make a row in the middle of
it ? " asked Dick triumphantly.

''Ah!" Ossie's interest was at last aroused,
but not for long. " It's very jolly here,"

he said plaintively, after a minute ; " goodnight."
He had been secretly getting a
good hold on the blankets.

** Ah, would you ? " cried Dick, and with
a dexterous jerk he pulled all the bedclothes
on to the floor.

Thus suddenly deprived of the warmth
and drowsiness which he loved, defenceless
and almost naked, Master Osbert Lang-don
had a good chance of displaying his
extraordinary amiability. He sat up on
his bed, clasped his hands in front of his
shins, rested his chin on his knees, yawned,
and stared at his cousin with eyes which
seemed to be opened to an unnatural roundness.
He even smiled as he said plaintively,
^' You always expect everybody to do what
you want."

No I don't," said Dick ; '' I only want
them to do what they ought. You ought
to get up. Oh do look sharp or we shall
be too late ; here's your shirt ; I'll help

you' As Ossie grew more wakeful, his
natural taste for mischief grew stronger
and stronger. It was not long before the
two little boys were stealing down the
passage with their shoes in their hands,
and the spirit of adventure in their hearts.

CHAPTER 11.

Mr Kirby was in great force and knew it.
The sound of his own voice was pleasant
in his ears. It may be said that for six
months or more he had not heard that
voice raised to public pitch ; for during the
short session before Easter he had scarcely
opened his full lips. As he spoke, his
mind was half busy with fragments of other
speeches, which delivered in his other manner
would soon be persuading or denouncing
his fellow-members of the Lower House.
But if his thoughts strayed sometimes to
the more important arena, he continued to
address with due weight and friendly heartiness
his admiring audience of the Relate
Institute.

The hall of the Institute was full and
fusty. Since the consumption of gas was
most liberal, it was hard to account for
the subtle smell of the smoke of cheap
candles. Hervie Langdon, who was fond
of speculating on matters of this sort,
connected it in some way with muffins
and tea in the parlour behind the shop.
Certainly the greater part of the audience
might well have come from such succulent
tea-tables as his fancy painted ; for the
small tradesmen of Red 2f ate were there inforce,
and had brought with them their
wives and daughters. Nor were these
latter slack in their zeal for the distinguished
politician ; for if they held him
second to the itinerant conjurer, who sometimes
appeared on that same platform, it
was only by so much as conjuring seemed
more important than politics. But though
the body of the hall was filled by Relate
shopkeepers and their womankind, there

was still room on the floor for a small
audience of a widely different character.
Behind the tradesfolk there was a small
company of labourers, who had plodded
in from a suburban beer-shop, under the
guidance of old Durley, professional flycatcher,
frequent poacher, and occasional
sub - agent in seasons of political excitement.
Old Durley bore an unfortunate
likeness to one .of his own ferrets. It
is to be feared too that he regarded ferrets
and politicians with somewhat similar
feelings ; he liked to see them at work,
and he loved to profit by their labours.
On the platform with the orator there
were, besides Mr Langdon, a gentleman
supposed to be of Portuguese origin, with
fat dark hands, who represented the landed
interest ; a very substantial farmer who
was Dick Hartland's chief tenant ; and the
Vicar, a large pale man determined not to
be fidgety, who in spite of his conscience.

I. B

pious efforts after an air of good-fellowship
and equality, could not but look like a
shepherd with a nervous eye upon his flock.
In the centre of the stage, with his broad
back turned to the picture of the late
Mayor, to whose munificence the town was
indebted for that useful building, stood Mr
Kirby and addressed his countrymen. In
every corner of the room before him was
brilliant light, except under the gallery
opposite, which had been designed for a
band, if ever a ball should be given in
that place. Under the gallery was darkness,
if not vacancy.

The orator had warmed to his work ; the
greater part of his task was done ; every
moment he became more knowing, more
friendly, more popular. *' It is no good
my trying to deceive you," he said — '* to
humbug you, if you will forgive the expression.
You know as well as I do what
this Government has done ; or rather what

they have left undone. It don't need much
of a man to tell us what they have done ;
for it's next to nothing. They tell us that
their great claim to our confidence is — that
they have let us alone — that they have not
worried our industries. But what I say —
and I am a practical man — that's my boast
what I say is that we don't pay a lot
of fellows to do nothing. ('* Hear, hear'"
cried one of the retail traders.) The public
servants must earn their wages. Then they
tell us that they have no time to do anything
for us. Why ? Because they are so
busy with foreign affairs. But I say that
it is time to let our neighbours alone.
Mind your own business, say I, and let
these foreigners alone. Do something: forme
— for us. We ain't foreigners. (shear,
hear," cried Mr Leon Gonzales, conscious
of his stake in the country.)

Now perhaps you Avill ask me — for you
are sensible practical men, as I hope I am

perhaps you will ask me what we — that
is, what our party will do for you, if we
come in — and come in we shall — and soon.
(the sooner the better," cried Mr Hopkins
the chemist, who frequently took part
in penny - readings and was not afraid to
be heard. This criticism from one of themselves
was greeted with much approval,
and some cries of " 'Ear, 'ear, 'Hopkins ; "
'' Good for you, Bill," and suchlike. During
the clamour the orator had the air of
one who is agreeably surprised by the discovery
of extraordinary local talent.) Yes,
gentlemen, the sooner the better, if I may
borrow the felicitous phrase of my good
friend William Hopkins. (Applause.) Now
I have no right to speak for the coming
Government. (eyes, you have," cried Mr
Hopkins.) No, no, my friend. I wish I
never had to disagree with you. I feel
safer when you and I are of one mind.
But I say, No. I speak to you as a plain

man to plain men — a friend among friends.
And as a friend among friends — (applause)
I may speak my mind freely. I'll tell
you what I think our people will do for
you, when they come in. I speak for
myself. I never was afraid to speak my
mind. I am not afraid now. (Hear,
hear.) What I think, I speak ; and what
I speak, may go forth from this place — this
beautiful hall of yours — (loud applause)
may go forth I say, and be repeated
through the length and breadth and depth
and height of this great country. (Loud
applause and stamping of the feet, during
which demonstration the orator whispered
to Mr Langdon, " You are sure there's nota
reporter V " Certain," answered his
friend ; " Hopkins saw to it. Give it them
strong ; they like it." Hervie Langdon
seemed to derive a peculiar pleasure from
the performance.) It is not hard to tell
you what we — what they will do for you.

They will institute a great policy of economy,
a far-reaching and minute economy.
Everything shall be clone a little cheaper.
All of you shall be a little richer on account
of our care and pains. We are practical
men ; we appeal to your pocket. (Laughter
and applause. As the sounds subsided, Mr
Kirby caught the eye of old Durley the flycatcher,
and he gave him something like
a wink as he began again.) But there is
something else which, unless I am much
mistaken — (" Not likely," said Mr Hopkins
with a knowing nod) — you will get out of
the Government which is to be. That 
is a treat Liberal measure. I for one
am not afraid to trust the people of England.
There may be more prudent men
than I. Don't let us undervalue prudence.
(Applause from the body of the hall.) But
there are other virtues besides prudence.
There are courage and honesty. Give me
the honest and the brave ; and I will give

them votes. (A voice, "And they'll give
their votes to you." It was the high peculiar
voice of old Durley.) And I am not
above taking em. (Laughter.) Some people
want to draw nice distinctions. Some say,
Give the vote to Tom, and not to Dick ;
or to Dick, and not to Harry. But I don't
value these nice distinctions. I am of a
wider generosity. My heart has room for
you all. I say, Give 'em all votes — give a
vote to Tom, to Dick, and to Harry. (Here
Shirley jogged the elbow of the man next
to him, and from his little knot of labourers
came presently a slow bovine cheer.) I
don't want to give a vote to the man who
pays £10, and to refuse it to the man who
pays £9, 10s. Some people value this sort
of wire-drawing business. I don't. I am
well content that the government of this
great country should be done by this great
people ; not by him who has so much, or by
him who has so little ; but by all who have

that chief possession — that inestimable
wealth — that proud title by which the
pomp of emperor and king grows pale —
the sacred name of Englishman. (The applause
was led by Mr Gonzales, who in
the enthusiasm of the moment almost made
up his mind to double his subscription to
the Hunt.) But don't let us be in a hurry.
(Applause from the body of the hall, where
the enthusiasm had been visibly cooling.)
Fairly, and softly. When are we to have
this great democratic measure ? When ?
I can't tell you. Can you tell me '? You
can judge at least as well as I — you the
able and honest gentlemen whom I see
before me — you the representatives of that
commerce which is the pride and glory of
England — that commerce so safe and so enterprising
— (shear, hear," from Peaseley the
grocer, who had just opened a little branch-shop
in the village of Glaring) — you who
are for reform without revolution, for progress

on the straight lines of the ledger —
you the bone and sinew of our country —
you the representatives of that great middle
class, from which I am myself so proud to
have sprung."

When the orator paused, there was a moment's
silence, during which old Under
the clerk woke with a start, and probably
under a false impression cried, "Amen."
Then laughter was smothered in applause ;
and boots and umbrellas thumped the floor.
As the surging sounds subsided, there was
heard a clear young voice calling — " Peter !
Peter ! " Hervie Langdon leaned quickly
forward in his chair, and stared into the
darkness under the opposite gallery. Mr
Kirby, who was not very quick to hear, held
up a large hand with fingers outspread ;
and, when silence was secured, asked in his
fullest and most patronising tone, " Did
I not hear somebody ask a question ? "
He waited with a tolerant smile ; he had

the air of one who was about to crush a
beetle in the kindest possible manner, but
to crush it. Then uttered in the same
clear treble came the words, "You said the
middle class were fools."

*eh? what? what?" cried Mr Kirby
astonished ; " what's that ? "

Didn't he, uncle Hervie ? It was when
you were smoking after dinner. Didn't he
tell you that the middle class were fools ? "

After these words there was a remarkable
silence. Then old Durley's beery
chuckle was heard ; " So they be," he muttered.
Then Mr Langdon on the elevated
platform, in the face of that important assembly
of his countrymen, burst into an
uncontrollable fit of laughter. Still wiping
his eyes he rose from his chair ; and, while
the worthy tradesmen starred with profound
wonder at the extraordinary humour of the
thick-set bearded gentleman before them,
he called over their heads to his friend

Durley. '' Durley," he said, '' just look
under the gallery for my nephew." The
venerable rat-catcher slipped back quick asa
ferret in a rabbit-warren ; but he presently
emerged from the darkness with his
head shaking, and protested that he could
find nothing but an open window. The
solid shopkeepers were still staring suspiciously
at Mr Langdon ; and that gentleman
now took his hands out of his pockets
and addressed them. *^ That was my
nephew," he said ; *^ he is a nice boy, but
mischievous. You all know what boys
are. You were boys yourselves — except
the best of you who were lucky enough to
be girls — are girls now if my short-sighted
eyes don't deceive me." This well-timed
allusion set all the ladies bridling and
2:i2f2flino:, while it turned the thoughts of
their male companions into a familiar channel
of jocosity. After a time of nudging
and laughter, during which Hervie Lang-don

put his hands back in his pockets and
stood smiling, he wound up his oration with
great speed. '' One does not answer little
boys," he said, — "except with the birch-rod.
You know our distinguished friend —
the great statesman who has talked to us
this evening. You know him ; and you
won't call him names ; nor he you. I need
hardly repeat that he won't call you names.
There is confidence and mutual respect between
you. All I have to do is to ask you
to join cordially and unanimously with mein
passing by acclamation a vote of thanks
to our distinguished friend, the Member for
this enlightened borough, John Wilmading
Kirby." As he sat down, there was a great
moving of chairs, and the bustle of departure
bes^an. With all this noise there was
enough applause to cover the retreat of Mr
Kirby. As the brougham was whirled
away from a side door, he said with a
thoughtful manner, " I think I'll make my

subscription to that damned pump as much
as £50." It was thus that he spoke of
the new Gothic fountain, which was to be
erected in the market - place of Eedgate.
As they drove through Glaring Park, he
asked with some warmth, *' Why doesn't
Sophie Hartland send that boy to school ? "
It is about time'' said Her vie Langdon,
who felt himself richer by a memory which
he could laugh at when he was alone.

CHAPTER III.

Sophie Hartland knew well that her boy
must go to school. It would have been
strange if she had not grasped the idea, since
she thought of Dick far more than of any
other person or thing in all the world.
From that awful day, when after a single
year of married life she was left a widow
and a mother, herself almost a child, her
son had been the most important of the
race of men. He had been a source of
streno-th too. Ashen she knew that her
husband, on whom she had already learned
to lean with absolute trust, had been crushed
under his horse and was dead, she turned
to her baby with an instinct of self-preservation.

But for her baby she thought that
she should not be strong enough to live.
A helplessness greater than her own appealed
to her. She prayed for her baby
before she prayed for herself. She prayed
that he might be like his father.

When the young mother could think
more calmly of her husband, her thoughts
passed always naturally from him to his
child. The sense of responsibility absorbed
her more and more. She felt as if she had
charge of a sacred creature, who was by
nature noble, and in whom any weakness
would be justly laid to her charge. And
this sense of responsibility made her stronger
day by day. Her life was full of little
tasks ; she would do everything for her
boy. And so daily her confidence in herself
increased. She found that she could
do what she set herself to do. She beofan
to value herself meekly on the power of
doing unpleasant things for Dick's sake ;

and so, one after another, most of them
ceased to be unpleasant. She found a
quiet pleasure in planning, in arranging, in
managing. She was proud of the extreme
neatness of the fine old house, which belonged
to her baby boy. She liked to be
consulted by the agent, who felt for hera
chivalrous devotion, and would scarcely
mend a gate without her sanction. She
troubled herself with the reckoning of many
figures, that she might foresee the future
value of Dick's property. She studied political
economy with the help of her brother-in-law
Her vie Langdon, who derived no
little amusement from her strange ambition
; and she learned to speak with intelligence
of freehold and copyhold, of the
natural law of rent, of the necessary limit
of wages. For the land laws of her country
she acquired an immense respect, partly
due no doubt to the difficulty which she
found in understanding them, but partly

also to that respect for all law and distrust
of change, which lie deep in all but the few
revolutionary women.

Out of doors Mrs Hartland rode about
the property, and saw things for herself.
She paid friendly visits to the farmers with
the grace and kindliness of a young queen.
She went more often into the labourers'
cottages, and would carry small gifts to
their wives and children. She was at home
in the village, which nestled at the park
gates ; and indeed she was seen so often
there, that people would have forgotten to
look at her, had she not been so pleasant
to the eye. For in spite of her Quaker-like
simplicity of dress, few women were prettier
than Sophie Hartland. The girlish
pouting lips had been schooled to an innocent
precision ; the cheek was a little thinner
and paler than it was on her marriage
morning ; not the lightest curl of the bright
brown hair was allowed to stray about the

VOL. I. c

temples. And yet the face of this wise
little mother, who so often tried to remember
what was dignified and becoming in the
widow of Ralph Hartland, and who could
discuss compensation for exhausted improvements
and shake her head over trades-unions,
was still almost a child's face, when
her son was twelve years old.

Nevertheless it may be said that Sophie
Hartland was now so far from her former
self, that she had clean forgotten what a
helpless being Sophie Meryon was. The
girl Sophie had been praised for her yielding
disposition. She had had no voice in the
choice of her gowns ; she had had but little,
as it seemed, in the choice of her husband.
That husband she had nevertheless endowed
with every virtue ; and, if he were not the
Bayard that his wife saw, he was at least a
very fine young fellow, honest, brave, and
of such determination withal, that his friends
said that it was well he had married so gentle

and submissive a girl. Now Sophie Hart-land,
when she was three-and-thirty, was
by no means submissive. She consulted
all sorts of people about her boy, his property,
and his education, because it washer
duty to have the best advice. But she
let nobody decide for her. She was jealous
of any interference between her and Dick.
She watched this precious lad with a jealous
eye. She loved him so much, that in
rare moments of weakness she feared that
her love would be punished by the loss
of him. She regarded him at one moment
with religious awe, at the next with the eye
of parental authority. He was awful as the
representative of all the Hartlands, the man
who was to fill that large place in the
county — more awful still as the son of her
own saint and hero. On the other hand
he was her property, her best possession ;
he was something so precious that it washer
duty to keep him safe by exacting per-feet

obedience. Die on his side was the
most amiable of little boys ; and he never
disobeyed his mother, unless, as little boys
will, he forgot her orders. He thought his
mother the best and most beautiful woman
in the world. He liked to see her smile ;
and he found that she smiled most sweetly
when he did what she told him to do. As
she was always devising pleasant things
for him to do, she had little cause to complain
of a want of prompt obedience. He
was not without friends. Under certain
conditions he was allowed to play with the
little boys in the village ; for the village
was a model, as Mrs Hartland's village was
bound to be. His cousins Osbert and
Betty Langdon were often with him.
Though he could play all day and never
tire, he early accepted his lessons as an evil
necessary for him. He knew that he must
learn ; for one of his first discoveries was
that he would be a person of great importance.

Big men touched their hats to him ;
the mothers of his playfellows called him
Sir' and dusted the wooden chair before
he sat on it ; farmers and labourers alike
were pleased to call him, " The little Squire's
Even in church he found that he and his
slight young mother sat in a pew twice as
big as any other pew. For him therefore
learning was necessary. He must know a
great many things, when he was a man.
When he was twelve, he thought that he
was almost a man, and that he knew a great
many things. Master Hartland was eager
to confront the world. He wanted to go to
school, in spite of his happy life at home,
in spite of his love for his mother. Perhaps
he was beginning, though he did not
know it, to rebel against petticoat government.
That, which he did know, was that
he wanted a lot more fellows to play with.
He thought that he should like to have
several hundred friends, who should all be

nearly as great friends as Ossie. Moreover
the unknown was irresistibly attractive.
He needed new things to examine — new
worlds to conquer. He was a small creature
of excessive energy. And so the idea
of a great school, all full of boys, filled him
with delight. Of course he would be sorry
to leave his mother ; but it would be
fun to write her letters. He could send
messages to his pony Daisy, but then she
would not understand them ; that thought
made it hard for a moment to say goodbye
to Daisy.

It is likely that the purchase of that
precious pony was the most heroic action of
Sophie Hartland's life. The acquisition of
that innocent little animal was not completed
without agonies of fear, without
sleepless and prayerful nights. Of course
her boy must learn to ride. She never
hesitated, though she feared. The Hart-lands
had always been a riding family.

Her husband had been the finest horseman
in the county, or, as she never doubted, in
England. Yet it was his pride of horsemanship
with his indomitable will which
had caused his death. He had made up
his mind to subdue a horse, which nobody
could ride ; and the brute and he had died
together deep down in a gravel pit on the
hillside. And so between this young widow
and the happy child, who sat on his new
pony in the sunshine, was the vision of a
white young face with matted hair. Scarcely
less pale was she, and her knees trembled
under her ; but she smiled on her boy and
praised his courage, and bade him be careful,
as any other mother might have done.

As Sophie Hartland had forced herself
to buy a pony for Dick, so, when the
proper time came, she was ready to force
herself to send him to school. She felt as
if he would take with him a part of her
life ; as if the beautiful old park would bea

waste in her eyes, and the home life a
dull mechanical routine. But of course she
must not keep him with her; for his father
had had the Englishman's sturdy faith in
the training of a public school. And so
the study of the public schools of England
had been begun by Mrs Hartland very soon
after the short-coating of her infant. From
that time forth she had lost no opportunity
of talking with fathers, mothers, pastors
and masters. She had consulted all sorts
of authorities ; she had made many notes of
measles, and of successes at the Universities ;
in a matter of such importance she felt ita
duty to spare herself no trouble. And yet
throughout all the period of earnest inquiry
and comparison she knew that she should
send Dick to Eton. His father had been at
Eton ; and a school, which had done something
to form Ralph Hartland, was according
to his widow's simple faith good enough
for anybody. It was almost sacrilege to

think otherwise. But she would not send
her boy to his father s tutor ; for she remembered
with indignation some idle jest
of that venerable man about his former
pupil's want of scholarship. To Eton, however,
Dick must go ; and this decision his
mother at last announced with due solemnity
to Hervie Langdon, who had enjoyed the
lion's share of consultation. Mrs Hartland
regarded it as a very great event for the
ancient College that Dick should become an
Eton boy ; nor was Dick's view of the
matter widely different from his mother's.

CHAPTER IV.

Dick went to Eton with a s^oocl store of
cheerfulness, the best intentions, and an
opinion of himself, which was at least
sufficiently high ; and in the long-run this
valuable equipment served him well. At
first he was doomed of course to some
experience of the rubs of life, and was a
little bewildered when he found himself of
no more importance than any other new
boy. But here his pleasant temper came
to his assistance ; and, though he thought
it very rude of young people to ask him
direct questions about himself and his private
affairs, he saw at once that such questions
were part of the venerable customs of

the place, and he bowed to them as such.
Perhaps, however, there was too evident an
air of self-respect about the little boy ; for
it is certain that he had not been many
days in the place, before he found himself
involved in a brisk skirmish with a dingy
and tormenting member of his tutor's house,
whose name was Dolamore. Dolamore had
not expected a fray ; he had only sought
a little cheap honour in the eyes of the
bystanders for the ingenuity of his petty
annoyance ; and when the new boy after a
period of perfect amiability suddenly went
at him with his head down, he was glad of
the arrival of the master, which put an end
to the conflict. Lack of science had prevented
much injury ; and Dick had a chance
of learning that threats and boastings are not
generally the prelude of vigorous action,
for though messages and even dirty and
twisted notes redolent of fire and fury
came thick to him during; the school-hour,

yet when at the end of that time he walked
somewhat slowly out into the sunshine, he
found with a thrill of pleasure that the
enemy was nowhere to be seen. Dick,
though he was hot about the ears and saddened
by the discovery that anybody could
wish to be unkind to him, had made up his
mind to bear himself bravely ; but none the
less was he glad that, when next they met,
the untidy adversary seemed to have forgotten
their quarrel and was deaf to the
hints of neutral onlookers.

But if Dick was a person of very small
importance at the outset of his Eton career,
it was not long before he began to make his
presence felt. He was still a neat little boy
with a white collar and a black jacket, when
other little boys similarly attired gathered
around him ; and when he was sixteen
years old, he exercised much influence in
his tutor's house, and was himself becoming
aware of his responsibility. Well - built,

active and with abundant energy lie was
prominent in games ; and he conciliated
rivals by his unvarying friendliness and
his pleasant smile. Boys, even more than
other people, judge each other by the eye ;
they read characters, as they run ; and
Dick with his brightness, his activity, and
his honest looks, was a pleasant object
than many handsomer people. If, as he
became known in the school, some fellows,
who were not among his acquaintance,
professed to hate him for his swagger, the
easy hatred of boys is for the most part
like the mist of the morning. Scarcely
anybody, who knew Dick, disliked him ;
and he was a favourite with the masters
as with his fellows. He never stayed out ;
he did his school-work respectably ; and he
did it all himself except a few Latin verses.
He had no talent for poetry. Perhaps the
discovery of his growing influence with
his peers, and the consequently increasing

sense of responsibility, would have made
Dick a prig for the time being, had he
not been so full of engrossing occupations,
that he had but little time for thinking
about himself.

If Dick felt to some extent responsible
for the views and actions of his fellows, he
felt far more strongly that it was his duty
to take care of his cousin Osbert Langdon.
He had taken care of Ossie, ever since with
the dignity of a full year's longer experience
of life he had assisted his tottering steps
across the nursery-floor. They were still
little boys at Eton, when Dick rebuked his
cousin one day for throwing his old fives-balls
at little cads, who struggled for them in
the dust. " But they like it' said Ossie.
But they ought not to like it," said Dick ;
and you ought not to like to do it. It's
beastly bad form." Thus early did young Mr
Hartland show some vas-ue consciousness of
the dignity of man, and of the importance

of the mutual respect of classes. As they
grew up in the school Dick gave more and
more thought to Ossie, and found him more
and more puzzling. Other boys, though he
had not the advantage of knowing them at
home, he was sure that he knew all about
without any trouble ; but he never could
be certain what Ossie would do next. This
character, which it was his duty to look
after, seemed ever chanmno^ its form. When
Dick was old enough to make theories, and
to regard them with satisfaction, he decided
that his cousin took the shape of the last
fellow, from whom he had parted. Nevertheless,
though it seemed as if there were
many Ossies, there yet remained one Ossie,
whom Dick loved, and on whom he kept a
watchful eye.

The two boys, now grown to a position
of some dignity, were at breakfast one
summer mornings. The fags had o-one, and
had left their portion of toast behind them.

The window was wide open ; the early
lio'ht slanted and trembled in the flowers,
which made gay the plain face of the
opposite house ; a soft air stole pleasantly
into the room. The drowsiness of this air
had a very soothing effect on Langdon.
As he put out an idle hand to the jam-pot,
it seemed strange to him that any sane
creature should submit to the trouble of
training ; he could not help asking his
cousin, if he really intended to start in the
school sculling.

Yes," said Dick with one eye on a small
manual of political economy.

"It's pretty fair cheek," said Ossie.

Dick laughed. " It's too good a chance
to be lost," he said. " Marlow has lent me
his boat ; and she's the best on the river.
She's too small for any of the other starters ;
it's just my luck."

But what's the good of giving up all
sorts of jolly things, and grinding every

night round rushes, when you can't possibly
win ? "

It's a good thing to do. One must do
something. Besides why shouldn't I win ? "

Well, you have nerve ! Do you think
you can beat Brown ? " Now Brown was
Captain of the Boats that year, and it
will be readily understood that this question
was not to be lightly answered. Dick
smiled at his own boldness in not saying
''No" on the instant. "He buries his
boat' he said ; " and he's not taking any
care about his steering."

If he doesn't win it's a moral for Cavendish."


He's stale," said Dick with a knowing
nod ; "he has done too much. I think I
can beat him in Marlow's boat."

I do like your cheek," said Ossie.

I'm glad you like it," said Dick ;
there's only a quarter of an hour before
construing."

VOL. I. D

Oh, I'm sure not to be put on to-day."

I'll give you a construe," said his
cousin with decision ; and he put away the
manual, which interested him a good deal
more than the classical authors.

I don't mind, if you'll let me look over
you. I can't go all the way to my room
for my book."

Hartland took his cousin by the back of
the neck and shook him playfully. " I
wish you wouldn't be so lazy," he said.
"You look beastly seedy and good-for-nothing.
I wish you wouldn't loaf so
much, and go with Dolores"* Then asa
new thought struck him, he asked more
anxiously — "You haven't been going anymore
to that brute Isaacs', have you ? "

Langdon raised his eyebrows pathetically,
smiled, and whistled.

'^ Oh, Ossie, don't be such a fool," said
Dick ; " fancy running the risk of being
sacked for going to a filthy gin - and -

billiard hole like that ! The next fellow,
who's nailed, will go."

Don't you be afraid," remarked Mr
Langdon with the air of a lazy sportsman ;
"they don't catch me. There's only five
minutes before construing." So Dick rushed
straightway into the business on hand, and
his cousin listened with an air of dignified
protest to a translation of some lines of
Horace. Later in the day, remembering
that he had not been called up in school,
he rebuked Dick pathetically for having
given him so much unnecessary trouble.

Having made up his mind to start in
the sculling, Hartland gave all his spare
energy to the task before him. It was a
point of honour with him to do as well ashe
possibly could. He was in the boat,
which had been lent to him, as often as
possible. He soon felt himself at home in
her, and had learned to steer her over the
difficult course with the utmost nicety. He

was so busy with the important business of
getting himself into the best possible condition,
that for a time he saw comparatively
little of his cousin. If uneasy thoughts of
Mr Cleveland Isaacs occasionally visited
him, they were instantly thrust out by
more solemn considerations of speed or
endurance.

This Mr Cleveland Isaacs was a source
of uneasiness in the school. He had but
lately appeared in the town ; and the elegance
of his premises and of his manners
aroused a suspicion that he aimed at other
than town patronage. He was accused of
inciting not only to drink, but to secret
cards and dice. He had been but a short
time in his new abode, when he was in
such bad odour, that the head-master felt
justified in launching a special thunderbolt
against him. So there passed round the
school a very short notice, which inspired

awe in little hearts by threatening instant
expulsion to any one who should hereafter
have any dealings with this fascinating
stranger.

Dick had looked once, and once only, on
the fascinating stranger, and had pronounced
him incontinently to be a repulsive cad.
He would have given him no second thought,
had he not an uneasy fear of any temptation
to mischief, which might beguile his
incomprehensible cousin. Once, when he
was hurrying to the Brocas, he saw Lang-don
in affectionate conversation with Delamere,
and he made up his mind to warn
him again against this dangerous friend.
But when he met him at lock-up, his mind
was so full of Brown's time round rushes,
of what Brown had said of Cavendish's
want of life, of Sambo's regret that Brown
would change his boat so short a time
before the race, that he clean forgot to find

fault with Ossie. Once or twice lie felt
called upon to rebuke him for not eating,
and for being slack and feverish ; but Ossie
only complained of the heat ; and indeed it
was an unusually hot summer.

CHAPTER V.

It was the night of the final heat of the
school sculling, and Hartland to the surprise
of almost everybody was one of the
four competitors. He had come in second
to Cavendish in his trial heat, and he had
come in, as his shrewd friend on the bank
had not failed to observe, '^as fresh as
paint." And now, when the final heat
was to be rowed, the bank of the Thames
from the Rafts to Brocas Clump was crowded
with boys. The evening light slanted
through them brightening the gay colours
of boating coats and caps, brightening
faces already bright with youth and laughter
and the joy of the battle. Dick's heart

was beating, as he stepped into his boat;
it was no small thing to be one of four
young heroes, who were to contend in
presence of that crowd so eager and so
quick of sympathy. The sunlight touched
his bright young head, as he sculled slowly
and in his best form to the starting-place.
The evening was still, the water oily calm ;
a moment of wonderful silence followed
the words " Get ready " — which words were
uttered, as the grandiloquent young writer
in the ' Eton Chronicle ' did not fail to record,
" by the stentorian voice of the Second
Captain of the Boats." Then in the stillness
sounded the one word ''Ofif;" and
thereupon arose a clamour, a high-pitched
shouting of youth, and straightway began
a rush of boys along the bank, as the four
boats leapt away together in the stream.

Brown, who had the best position under
the Eton shore, was soon leading, and
before he reached the Railway Bridge, he

was steering across the other competitors
to Bargeman's bush. In this bush however
the stalwart young Captain of the
Boats, who was attending too much to the
fellows behind him, caught his right scull
for a moment. He was instantly free
again ; but not before the pale and persevering
Cavendish had come up to him
on the outside. Once at close quarters
Cavendish was hard to shake off; if his
sculling lacked life, his stroke never got
shorter, and his pluck had been praised
in many * Chronicles.' Deep-chested, round
of body and muscular of forearm, Brown
looked as if he must go right away from
his antagonist ; but though he spurted
opposite Hester's Shed, he could not draw
his boat clear of the other. He made too
wide a curve at Sandbank, and Cavendish
was almost level with him after the turn.
And now the impetuous spirit of the Captain
of the Boats was vexed within him ; he

must be rid of this pertinacious fellow ; he
was not afraid of exhausting the strength,
which was so much admired in the school ;
he would show them what he could do.
He quickened his stroke, but in quickening
he begun to hurry forward ; he gained
a little, but his boat began to jump and dip
beneath him. Full of the determination to
shake off Cavendish he paid no heed to his
course ; at Upper Hope he went right out
into the stream, and Cavendish, who had
no thought but to stick to his leader, went
with him. Now was the moment for
Dick's judicious friend and amateur trainer.
His approving eye observed that his man
was, as he said to himself, "still in it."
He lifted his voice and piped loud and
clear across the river. Dick who had been
sculling cleanly and carefully, and had
gained some lengths by his steering, now
allowed himself a single glance over his left
shoulder. With a quick throb of excitement

he saw Brown and Cavendish close
together and right out in the bay. Steering
close round the lons^ corner, restrain in ga
wild inclination to spurt, he waited till
his boat was straight, and then for the first
time he quickened a little. Then the boys
at Athens staring with all their eyes, saw
to their amazement that Hartland was indeed
in it. They saw that it was a great
race ; they danced in their excitement about
the rails ; those who had breath yelled
for their favourites ; many were hoarse the
next morning. And now Brown was aware
that there was another with whom he must
reckon. He came bounding across the
river to his proper course ; he was strong
as a young bull and his boat leapt under
him ; to the ignorant eye it seemed as if
he must go right away from the slight
young boy, who was fully two years
younger. But he was hurrying with his
body and cutting his stroke ; as he slanted

across the stream his boat became unsteady
; his thoughts went back with a sigh
to the old craft which he had discarded.

It was a splendid race. As they neared
Rushes, Brown and Hartland were almost
level, and Cavendish little more thana
length behind. Dick was afraid of
being fouled in the narrow channel ; he
spurted and gained half a length ; he
slipped smoothly by the old bed of
reeds ; in a few seconds he was at the
ryepeck, and half the course was done.
He gained at least a length by his good
turn ; and now he was sailing away down
stream, with his eyes fixed on the landmarks
by whose aid he steered, and with
a very strong determination that nobody
should pass him ; he realised that he had
the lead, and he would keep it. Brown
was barely clear of Cavendish, when he had
turned the ryepeck ; his work was beginning
to tell on him ; as the young Johnson

of the ^ Chronicle ' put it, '' his efforts had
been too great for the arms of any man to
endure." Indeed those swollen forearms
hurt him not a little ; again and again he
spurted with but small effect on the speed
of his boat. With set teeth and long
strokes Cavendish stuck to him ; at Hester's
Shed the great Captain after a final
plunge accepted his fate ; his determined
antagonist drew himself clear and sculling
steadily down passed under Windsor Bridge,
second to young Hartland. " Never," wrote
the Chronicler, whose magniloquent young
pen has recorded this contest, "never has
the aquatic world been astounded by a
result so contrary to what most fellows
expected. We have witnessed another
start, another race, and another finish ; the
Blue Riband of the Eton Thames has again
been lost and won, and the winner has
turned out to be Hartland, whom we
warmly congratulate on his success."

After the race as Dick sculled up from
below the bridge, alone in triumph, he
could scarcely believe in his o^yn victory.
He seemed to be lifted out of himself, to
be moving; in some glorious dream fearful
of waking. The simple lad had never felt
anything like this ecstasy. He steadied
himself with an effort and thought about
the form of his sculling. The water under
him was yellow with the last sunlight, and
the blades of his sculls were golden as he
feathered them ; the rafts crowded with
boys in gay flannels lay low to the water
like Chinese river-saddens of bright flowers;
there was an immense clamour, as the winner
came from the shadow of the bridge.
As he stepped from his boat and made
his way through the crowd, they thronged
about him to pat him on the shoulder, to
touch the hero of the hour. It was intoxicating
; it was lucky that the boy had
a steady head on his shoulders. He was

thanking everybody, and struggling to the
chano^ino:-room : he wanted to be alone —
to recover himself.

When he was dressed, the winner slipped
away from his friends, and started for his
tutor's. As he went, his feet moved
quicker and quicker. He wanted to talk
it all over with Ossie, to enjoy his ready
sympathy, to laugh at his wonder. He
laughed aloud, as he hurried on, at the
thought that it was really he who had won
this great race. Suddenly the laughter
was struck silent on his lips. Out of a
dark passage came somebody stumbling
against him. It was the passage into
which opened the attractive premises of
Mr Cleveland Isaacs. Dick turned cold
in an instant. The boy who had fallen
against him out of the darkness was his
cousin Ossie ; and it was clear that Ossie
was drunk.

CHAPTER VI.

The sweet air came over the valley, and
filled the long low drawing-rooms of Glaring,
which had opened all its windows to
the south. It was the drowsy time between
harvests. The hay was stacked and the
wheat was growing yellow. The valley,
which stretched away from below the southern
face of the old house into the dim distance,
seemed twice as full of trees, for
every tree was growing round and full with
darkening foliage ; the broad acres of the
park were silent and sleepy ; it was the fulness
of summer. To Mrs Hartland, as clad
in her cool white crown she moved thrush
the long rooms, the great contentment of

the morning was but another cause of irritation.
She touched and retouched the
fresh flowers, because she had a theory
about the beneficial effect of occupation
on the distressed mind. Her distress was
caused by perplexity ; and, as she had
grown accustomed to the belief that she
always knew what to do, she was irritated
by doubt. She found herself at a loss,
and she did not like it. The subject of
her doubts was her son, and she liked that
still less. She was not sure, though she
had not acknowledged this even to herself,
that the decision remained wholly with
her; and this final doubt was unendurable.
Dick had come home with all his
honours ; and had been received as a young
hero should be, who had won the scullions
when he was but just seventeen, got into
Pop, and brought an excellent character
from his tutor. It is true that the mother's
joy had been a little damped by the fact

VOL. I. E

that her brother-in-law Her vie Langdon
had been advised to take his boy away
from Eton ; but, though she was very fond
of her nephew, the misfortune of another
person's son cannot be wholly bitter to a
mother. The mood in which she sincerely
condoled with Mr Langdon was not far
removed from that, in which she clasped
Dick in her arms and breathlessly thanked
heaven that he had never done anything
to grieve her. On dear Ossie's case she
could be very sensible ; she made light of
his childish folly ; she pointed out to his
father how much worse it would have been,
if he had been expelled. If Ossie's fate
had befallen her own child, the light should
have gone out of the world for her. But
Dick was a hero, a favourite with masters
as with boys ; no other woman could hope
for such a son. And now, when she was
telling herself this truth so full of comfort,
when she was hu2f£fino^ to her heart this

chief possession, Dick had quietly told her
that he wished to leave Eton at Christmas.
Moreover he had not yielded at once, when
she showed him the absurdity of such a
course. Was it possible that there was a
flaw in his character '? Could it be that he
was self-willed ?

Mrs Hartland found no pleasure in the
placid beauty of the morning. She was out
of temper ; and as she had acquired a habit
of pitying and despising women who lost
their temper, the consciousness of her present
state was intensely irritating. She was
cross with herself for being cross. She knew
that she had spoken sharply to her mother,
who considered herself a soothing presence.
Mrs Meryon was staying with her daughter,
and had tried to comfort her for Dick's
folly by pointing out the misfortunes of
their common friends. Ever since the
death of her young son-in-law Mrs Meryon
had been given to sio^hin<]j over her daughter

Sophie, at first on account of her helplessness,
and then more and more, as she found
to her great surprise that she herself was
not to have sole charge of the baby, on account
of her strange indifference to maternal
advice. She was perhaps too fond of expressing
a hope, which was certainly real,
that Dick would turn out well. For so
sympathetic a woman Mrs Meryon was
wonderfully Avell preserved. The round
smooth face showed few lines, and the
smooth hair under the cap scarcely a trace
of grey. Her air of gentle melancholy made
many more cheerful women feel vulgar.
She seemed to consent to live — to eat and
drink with a soft silent protest. She had
known sorrow. She was a widow ; and of
her two children Marion, Hervie Lang-don's
wife, had died young, and Sophie
would not appeal to her for comfort in the
trials of life. The comfort derived from
mingling tears was that nearest to the heart

of Mrs Meryon. She had learned to expect
little. When the weather was fine, she was
not deceived by its treachery ; when the
weather was dull, that was more fitting.
She kept a store of other people's sorrows,
as a squirrel keeps nuts ; she loved to crack
them at strange moments. On festive occasions
she sighed most ; for then she could
not help thinking of that poor dear somebody
whom she remembered in such spirits,
or of that poor dear other one who would be
so happy if he could be there ; so would she
tone down the mirth till the atmosphere
was such as she loved to breathe. In times
of sorrow this lady was like a gentle shower
falling softly if superfluously in a season
of heavy rains. Her life was a peaceful
stream, and in its sliding grey she viewed
herself with no little satisfaction.

To this maternal being, who was ready
to sit down and cry with her, Sophie Hart-land
had been cross. She did not wish to

sit down and cry ; she only wished her
own son to do that which she knew to befor
his good. Surely, as she told herself,
that was not unreasonable ; though she was
a woman, she knew what was reasonable.
Feeling that she must do something she
had sent for Hervie Langdon ; and he had
arrived in due course, and had brought
his boy and girl with him. Now, when
her friend and brother-in-law was here, she
shrank from consulting him. She had been
so proud of her management of her boy ;
and it seemed to her that she was about to
make a confession of failure. As she was
moving restlessly from jar to jar, Mr Lang-don
came in through one of the open windows.
He seemed to concentrate in himself
the measureless content of the outer
world. He tossed his half-smoked cigarette
out on to the gravel walk, and smiled upon
his sister-in-law. " Please don't do that,
Hervie," she said ; " it looks so untidy ; it's

such a bad example for the gardeners."
Still smiling, he stepped out again into the
sunlight, picked up the fragment of cigarette,
and awaited further orders. ^' Oh,
put it anywhere," she said impatiently;
** what can it matter ? " Then as she
caught his eye, she laughed and was angry
with herself therefor. " No, I am not
laughing' she said ; " I don't see how
anybody can laugh in such a stupid world."
*' It is a highly comical world," said
Hervie Langdon, as he carefully buried
the offending tobacco in a big flower-pot
by the window. Then he came in, and,
as he felt sure that she wanted to talk to
him, he showed no consciousness of the
fact; he chose a chair, and picked up the
Times.' " I think mamma has the most
depressing correspondence in the world,"
said Sophie, still obstinately busy with her
flowers ; " her friends are always in misfortune.
Poor Mrs Trippet has twins

again ; Emily Eustace's engagement is'
broken off; I don't know why she reads
me all these wretched things."

"Your mother thinks we are all awfully
hard-hearted' said Hervie round his paper ;
she gives us doses of other people's misfortunes
to stimulate our sympathy. It is
very good of her, if you look at it like that."

I think she might have spared me this
mornings. I have enough to trouble me."

Mr Langdon said nothing, but he threw
down his paper as if he had failed to find
any news. After a minute she said abruptly,
*' Dick wishes to leave Eton at Christmas."

Hervie showed a proper measure of surprise
and interest. " Does he give any
reasons *? " he asked.

"There can be no reason whatever," she
said, answering indirectly, as women sometimes
will ; " he is doing very well in every
way. His tutor says that it would, be the
greatest pity in the world that he should

leave now — just when he is beginning to exercise
his proper influence ; that it would bea
very bad thing for the House — and for
the school ; and that it will probably bethe
ruin of — of Dick'

*not so bad as that I hope'

** Of course he does not say so in so
many words ; of course he softens it forme,
as if I were one of those weak silly
mothers. Perhaps I am a weak silly
mother. At any rate it seems that my
own child thinks so."

*' My dear Sophie, you are the best of
mothers. I am sure Dick knows that you
are the best of mothers. What does he
want to do ? ''

Oh don't ask me. He is full of some
ridiculous ideas about studying political
economy, and history, and — and nonsense.
It is really too absurd in a boy of seventeen.
He wants to prepare himself for
public life — for looking after his property

for doing his duty to the land — I don't
know what he wants."

Mr Langdon seemed to be thinking.
He isn't much of a scholar, I believe 1 "
he said after a minute.

He says that he will never be any good
at Latin and Greek, if you mean that ; but
I am sure I don't know why he shouldn't
be ; his father did well enough." •

Hervie Langdon had a lively recollection
of some peculiarities of his friend Ralph
Hartland's scholarship ; but he thought it
better to let that subject rest. He said
nothing, and Mrs Hartland presently began
again in a more quiet tone.

*' I can't think what has made Dick so
conceited," she said. *'He was such a
gentle modest boy before he went to
school. It must be all the fault of that
horrid Eton."

Mr Langdon remarked to himself that,
if Eton was horrid, she should be glad that

her son would leave it ; but lie thought it
wiser not to say this aloud.

They must have flattered Dick," Sophie
Hartland said, " into thinking himself something:
out of the common."

'' I am not sure that he isn't something
out of the common," said Mr Langdon. .

No, Hervey' his sister-in-law answered
with firmness, and an air of impartiality
which she felt to be worthy of a man — " No,
Hervie," she said, " I am not silly about my
boy. I know that Ralph's son cannot be a
fool ; but I don't mistake my geese for
swans. Dick is like other boys — no better
and no worse."

No better than my poor Ossie, for instance
? "

She did not answer his question precisely.

'' Poor Ossie !" she said ; " I am so sorry
for Ossie. I am sure nobody can be better
and nicer than he is here with us. He is
such a dear affectionate boy, and so fond of

Powers ; he has such nice tastes. It must
have been the fault of those horrid friends ;
Dick ought to have kept him away from
them''

No, no," said Hervie ; " you mustn't
blame Dick. Ossie says that there is nobody
like Dick ; and that everybody in the
school says so." He looked at her keenly,
as he said this ; he fancied that the tone of
her next speech was a little milder.

Then why does he want to leave ? " she
asked.

Mr Langdon thought that the question
had better be left without further answer.
He continued to praise his nephew ; and
Sophie Hartland objected, and by objection
encouraged him to fresh praises ; and by
this process the mother's heart was slowly
but surely comforted. She even sat down,
and took up her work. " I wish you would
take my precious pair off my hands," said
Mr Langdon, perceiving that it was a good

time for an effective contrast. " Ossie entertains
me with imitations of his friend Mr
Cleveland Isaacs; they are really extremely
clever ; he would do very well on the stage
and so would Betty."

Oh, Hervie, how can you talk like that?"

They have taken to religion lately.
They are the most comical young creatures
in the world. They took me to church last
Sunday."

I am very glad to hear it, Hervie," said
Mrs Hartland gravely.

Ossie is going to sing in the choir, and

Betty has confided to me " here Mr

Langdon was rendered speechless by one of
his sudden attacks of laughter ; as soon ashe
could speak, and still wiping the tears
from his eyes, he finished his sentence —
that she is in love with the organist."

'' Oh, Hervie ! " cried his sister-in-law.

She has always fancied herself in love
with somebody, since she could see."

Really, Hervie, you ought not to talk so
of your daughter. You forget that she is
almost a woman."

She can't be more than fifteen," he said
after a moment's thought. " She is certainly
forward for her years. She has a
female friend, a certain Susan Bond, who
has just launched herself on the world ; and
this young person tells her that, though
men have given up religion themselves, they
won't marry women who haven't got it.
Did you ever hear anything like that from
a debutante ? You never saw such a letter
as she wrote to my little girl."

Did Betty show you the letter 1 "

Yes. They show me everything. Thank
heaven I we are the best of friends, my
children and I. They amuse me more than
anything in the world."

Mrs Hartland was not amused. She felt
that she ought to utter a protest. " You
know, Hervie," she said, " how much I have

always disapproved your theories about the
bringing up of children."

Look at the result," said he with an
easy smile ; " take the church for instance.
I never made them go to church ; and so
they like it ; and now they make me go."

If Betty goes to church, because a silly
girl says that it's the way to get a husband,
I am afraid that she will not get much good
from it."

Hervie began to smile in his beard, and
she said a little more sharply, " I never
know whether you are in jest or in earnest ;
but I think that your daughter's future is
worthy of a little seriousness."

He became grave on the instant. " My
dear Sophie," he said, " I feel quite sure of
Betty. How can Marion's daughter be anything
but a good girl ? "

Poor Marion ! " said Sophie and sighed.
I do hope," she added, " that Betty will
be as good a woman as her mother."

Never fear ! " said he stoutly. " And
let us hope that Dick will be as good a man
as his father."

Mrs Hartland shook her head. " That
he never will be," she said with decision.
I can't understand Dick. Does he suppose
that I would ask him to do anything
which was not for his good ? "

Perhaps he is beginning to think that
he knows what's best for him." Hervie
Land-don said this : but he said it under his
beard, and nobody heard him. " Ah, look
at 'em," he said aloud ; " there they are.
Look at the young creatures."

Beyond the terrace the smooth turf sloped
gradually away to the wood, which stretched
down into the valley. Out of the wood came
Betty flushed and fair, and dragging after
her her brother, who hung back laughing.

*' Ain't they beautiful?" asked their father.
They might have come to life from an old
Greek jar. It's a Bacchanal bit."

Sophie Hartland said nothing. She was
staring at her own child, who came running-out
of the shadows in pursuit of his cousins.
To her he seemed more beautiful than they,
though he would have seemed so to very
few others. He shouted, as he saw her
framed in the tall window ; he ran up the
lawn with his honest blue eyes full of kindness;
though Sophie was not fanciful, she
thought that her son was full of the morning.
And yet, as he kissed her lightly on
the cheek, she frowned a little, wondering
if this affectionate sweet-tempered boy could
be really obstinate.

Dick," said Hervie Langdon smiling,
it's a pity to give up being a boy before
you are obliged to. Expert crete ! "

I mean to be a boy and a man too,"
said Dick ; and he put his arm round his
mother with a manner affectionate and protecting.


VOL. I. F

CHAPTER VII.

Dick left Eton at Christmas. Very soon
after the subject was first discussed between
the mother and son, Mrs Hartland
made up her mind not to say another word
about it ; and it was only under pressure
of the strongest feeling that she ever departed
from this resolution. Sometimes
she felt, as she said, that she must speak.
She spoke strongly to her boy's tutor, and
that good man spoke strongly to his pupil.
Dick was perfectly amiable, and listened
with interest ; but he was not convinced.
Mr Kirby himself took the trouble to visit
Eton that he might put the thing to rights.
I'll just run down," he said, "and talk to

the boy myself, and tell him not to make
a confounded fool of himself." Mr Kirby
went down and talked to the boy, who
received him with the pleasantness smiles.
In the course of his remarks the politician
made himself by degrees very red in the
face and very angry ; but he failed to persuade
the boy. As he journeyed to London
in the train, his superfluous warmth escaped
in broken muttering, as of a storm passing
away ; and among them an attentive ear
might have distinguished such words as
spoiled," ^' prig," '^ conceited young ape,"
joined all of them with strong epithets.
He was really sorry that his young kinsman
should insist on beginning life with
a mistake. He was fond of the boy ; had always
thought that he would do him credit ;
had often pronounced him promising ; had
asserted warmly that he would push him
forward when the time came, as indeed
he intended to push him. Blood, in Mr

Kirby's opinion, was a good deal thicker
than water.

Dick was sorry to grieve his mother ;
but he was sure that he was right. He
felt no shadow of doubt ; the matter
seemed clear as the day. He told himself
that for him at least further study of
dead languages was of no use ; that he
could fit himself better for his part in life
elsewhere than at Eton ; that of course he
ought to fit himself for that important
part as well as he could. He admitted that
he might have some influence among his
school - fellows ; but that must not be
weighed against the wider influence which
he meant to have some day. Besides his
most useful occupation in the school was
gone when Ossie was taken from him. If
his cousin had been allowed to stay in the
school, he would have stayed to look after
him. But now, since Ossie had left, he felt
sure that he outfit to leave too. Moreover

Dick's curiosity was growing with startling
ra^Diclity. He had a great desire to know the
real world, as he already knew, or thought
he knew so well its picture in little. He
wanted to understand men and their needs ;
to analyse those political and social difficulties,
which must be due, he thought, to
a strange stupidity. He was charged with
excessive energy, and was tired of expending
so much of it in the games of boys.
There were so many new things to see
and to know ; and as he wanted to see
and know everything, it was certainly
time to begin. Sometimes he felt himself
already a man ; for the most part however
he was lucky enough to be a boy.

When the hours of discussion were over,
and the time for leaving had come, the
boy's courage almost failed him. Then he
felt, as he had never felt before, with what
imperial gentleness Eton held sway over
his heart. Of his own will he was going

from so much friendship. In one of those
moments of superstition, of which there
were so few in his life, he felt fear lest he
should be punished for neglecting this great
gift; he thought that perhaps some day
he would need a friend. So many fellows
seemed to be sorry that he was leaving ;
it made him tender. As the train passed
slowly over the river Thames, which was
eloquent of his first and sweetest victory,
he felt the tears in his eyes ; he was
ashamed ; he said to himself that this
would never do; he must face the consequences
of his own decisions ; he opened
the * Times,' and disappeared in his corner
behind that voluminous sheet. Though at
that time he had by no means outgrown
his respect for leading articles, yet it is
to be feared that he remembered but few
words of the printed wisdom, at which his
eyes gazed dimly during the journey to
London.

Dick Hartland, when he had escaped
from the discipline of school, was confident
enough that he needed no help in conducting
his further education. Nevertheless
having carried his point in the chief matter
he was ready to yield with a good grace
in that of less importance. He was prepared
to receive a tutor. He even pressed
his mother to find one for him, and so
allowed her to forget for a time that he
was passing from her control. She wrote
many letters, and made minute inquiries.
Meanwhile Dick troubled himself not at
all about his future instructor, for he had
made up his mind that he would learn only
what he wished to learn, and not a jot of
any other stuff" which it might please the
teacher to teach. A man, who could answer
all those questions, which he was eager to
ask, would be useful as a whole library of
books. A man, who failed to adapt himself
to his pupil, would soon resign a most

embarrassing position. It was easy enough
to manage that sort of thing, Dick said to
himself, and laughed. So he read his own
books and went his own way ; till by great
fortune he received a tutor, who adapted
• himself with a kind of fury to the demands
of his pupil. Fabian Deane had but just
taken his degree at Oxford, and was looking
about with excited eyes for something todo.
Suddenly he heard of young Hartland
as a promising youth in need of instruction ;
and obedient, as he loved to be, to the impulse
of the moment he wrote to Hervie
Langdon, who was an old friend of his
father, and claimed the position of tutor.
If the pupil was promising, the tutor was
interesting. " Interesting " was the epithet
most frequently applied to Mr Fabian Deane.
He was talked about more often than any
young man in Oxford. He had flung himself
impetuously into many sets, and had
made himself at home, at least for a time.

in all of them. He was always doing something,
or going to do something; and the
something generally startled the onlookers.
The unexpected delighted him ; he loved it
for itself ; and moreover he liked to know
that one man said to another, " Have you
heard what Deane did ? '' or " Do you know
what that lunatic Fabian is going to do 1 "
He was naturally unlike other people, and,
as soon as he was old enough to be conscious
of this unlikeness, he hugged it to
him with joy. He never made the slightest
effort to modify or to hide it; indeed it
may be suspected that he sometimes emphasised
it a little. It is certain that some
blunt people among his Oxford contemporaries
accused him of affectation ; but this
was a very crude estimate of a very interesting
character. He was naturally unlike other
young men ; and he liked to be unlike them.
As at different times Fabian flung himself
into different sets of men, so with like

ardour did he embrace now one occupation,
now another, and abandon in turn various
lines of study. Of history, to which the
life of his eminent father was devoted, he
was unreasonably impatient. But this was
almost the only field of study in which
he never urged his wild career. For two
years he abandoned himself to philosophy;
during that time he constructed the universe
in three or four different ways, and
dissolved it as often. "When he had thought
enough about thought, he one day thought
about thinking about thought : in that important
moment he decided that the occupation
was not for him : he, as it were,
burnt his books, and looked out of window.
For a time he examined man (and this was
the subject supremely interesting to him
in almost all his moods) with the purely
scientific eye. He inspected man's brain
in bottles, and wondered if he could think
with his back. But the pictures in the

scientific books offended his eye, which was
greedy of beauty ; the mystery of the medulla
oblongata failed to soothe his sensitive nature.
He turned with new zeal to art.
Now he became more Hellenic than the
ancient Greeks ; anon he was more medieval
than the early Italian painters. He began
to write a history of poetry. Suddenly it
occurred to him to write poetry instead of
its history ; but if he hated history, he
hated his own verses more ; as they cooled,
he was shocked by their deformity. He
denounced all sorts of things ; he denounced
all sorts of people ; he was powerful in
denunciation — a master of elaborate invective,
and of fiery sarcasm, with which he
loved at times to sear his own breast also.
Yet in spite of the pitiful inadequacy of
mankind and of himself, he enjoyed a great
brightness of spirit, which was made only
more brilliant by brief hours of majestic
gloom. Disappointed in the studies which

had by turn attracted him, he at last rushed
to that which commended itself as most repulsive
; and after six months severe study
of law he surprised more methodical people
by appearing in the first class. Then he
tried with very small success to wait
patiently. He fumed and fretted among
his photographs from the works of Bellini
and Carpaccio ; he scowled at his two casts
from the antique, which appeared inhumanly
cold. He was in this mood of enforced
calm, smoking idly like Vesuvius and full
of fire within, when he first heard of the
existence of young Hartland. All his lifelong
from those days, which seemed so fair
as he looked back, when the chosen playmate
of his childhood and best beloved was
a little fluffy dog, Fabian Deane had been
eagerly seeking a friend. In moments of
explosion he had often declared that he had
never found a friend. Perhaps he had
always asked too much. He wished to beloved,

improved, guided by a perfect being.
When he heard of young Hartland's condition,
an entirely new idea struck him. He
would abandon his wearisome search for a
guide, philosopher, and friend. It needed
but a moment's thought, and the object of
his life was reversed ; the whole thing was
upside down. He would be guide, philosopher,
and friend to somebody else. Fired
by this idea he wrote post-haste for the
place of tutor. Whatever else he might or
might not be, he declared that he was the
very man to open the mind of intelligent
youth. Indeed the only danger was that
he would tear it open by main force. Who
rode his hobby with Fabian Deane, was in
danger of being carried off the solid earth,
of careering through a very Walpurgis night
with a benevolent Mephistopheles for guide.
Dick's head was fortunately cool.

For three years the interesting tutor and
the promising pupil were constant companions.

For months at a time they lived
a quiet life at Glaring, which Fabian pronounced
the most delightful place in the
world, as its mistress was the most charming
woman. That Mrs Hartland could dono
wrong was one of the only two opinions,
which this eccentric genius never changed.
The other opinion was that in his pupil
he had found at last a friend. He found
Dick full of curiosity about his future
possessions, and his future duties — about
land and the people who lived thereon.
He showed him where to look for answers
to all, or almost all, his questions. He
caught the enthusiasm, as he always caught
an enthusiasm. He sought in the library
the standard works of economists ; and he
gathered the ephemeral pamphlets of politicians,
and of agitators. He was carried
by his pupil to the houses of farmers, and
to the cottages of labourers ; and he puzzled
the occupants of both not a little by his

impetuous sympathy and fiery volubility.
He was introduced by his pupil to Amiens
the enlightened cobbler, who, having seen
nothing like him, regarded him with undeserved
suspicion. If he could not answer
Dick's question at the moment, he seared
himself no trouble till he had collected many
answers. It seemed to him a great task
to explain the uses and the possibilities of
land to a wise young landowner. His eyes
were full of a future paradise; though its
form was ever changing with the last new
theory which he swallowed. He was ever
ready to swear that the question of land-tenure
was the one question of the day ; he
became fiercely contemptuous of all other
matters; he was fifty times as zealous as
Dick, who had first kindled his zeal ; he
delighted and amused the boy by his
ardour.

The friends spent much of their time in
travel, and devoted themselves abroad to

the same line of study, which they had
pursued at home. It is true that they
looked at famous buildings and visited
famous picture-galleries; for Dick thought
it right to see these things, and liked to see
them too. Fabian, that whilom devotee of
Art, scoffed in the presence of cathedrals,
and fretted before pictures. '* Shadows of
shadows ! " he would say ; " I can't stand
this dead past, when the present is so full
of interest. What's the good of gaping at
these works of man, when there is man
himself to be studied ? " And he looked
with his fiery eyes as if he would not only
study, but was ready to devour his kind.
But the time which they spent in galleries
was as nothing to that, which they passed
among tillers of the soil. They abandoned
all the wonders of Some that they might
ramble in the vineyards and olive-yards of
a land which was held on every conceivable
tenure. They turned their backs on the

Acropolis ; and Fabian swore that no
flavour of antique Hellas pleased him half
so well as the coarse bread and resinous
wine of the country folk of a new Greece.
Nearer home they spent months in making-friends
with the small proprietors around
Hamburg ; and after a few weeks of Paris
they gave a long summer to walks and
talks in quiet country places by the Marne
and Stone.

So after much reading, and looking, and
talking with his friend, it came to pass
that Dick Hartland, as a tall boy of twenty,
knew more, than many prominent politicians,
about land, and how men live on it.
He might already have adopted a theory,
had not the tutor's habit of swallowing
theories whole strengthened the pupil's
caution. The only definite purpose, which
he had formed, was that he would keep his
property, so far as he could, in his own

hands — that he would not limit in any
VOL. I. G

way his power of doing, as he liked, with
this interesting land. He was delighted to
think how interesting it would be. Fabian
Deane was quickly coming to the conclusion
that this boy, whom he had promised
to instruct was the wisest of mankind. If
for a moment he was annoyed by his
caution, he regarded it for the rest of the
day with something like veneration. He
challenged the universe to show such another
lad, and such another friend. Indeed
this friend, whom he had found at last, was
more like the original object of his search,
than he himself quite realised. Fabian was
more of a philosopher, but in their studies,
as in their journeys, Dick was for the most
part guide.

As the ceaseless roar of Niagara so is the
sound of London when her season is at its
height. To some this vast and complicated
machine for the production of pleasure
seems pitiless too as the great Fall, which
plunges down clear green behind her ever-rising
mists of rainbow spray, careless if she
bury deep below her weight of water a log of
wood, or a little child. To some, who have
suffered perhaps from too much machine-made
gaiety, such fancies may come ; but
happily not to a boy who with good health
and spirits, wide-eyed for simple pleasure,
feels himself on the brink of all delightful
possibilities.

Dick Hartland meant to enjoy the holiday,
which he was sure enough that he had
earned. He had but just arrived in England
after an absence unusually long ; he had
parted from his tutor for a time. To-morrow
he would embrace his mother, who unaware
of his coming was spending the night
at Glaring. In a few weeks he would be
of age ; already he felt himself his own
master ; one would have thought from the
pleasure, which this feeling gave him, that
he had been kept under the strictest control.
As he walked up the street to that
desirable Club, to which through the influence
of his uncle Hervie Langton he had
been elected in his absence, he was possessed
by a ridiculous sense of freedom. What
happiness was in store for him ! No carriage
passed, which did not bear some happy
creature to a new enjoyment. He felt sure
that of such enjoyments he would receive a
liberal share. He took it for granted that

even strangers would treat him well. The
young man, who glanced at him from the
hansom, would probably be his friend before
the week was out. As for that glimpse of
something: white and fair in the old family
chariot, what might not that mean % If it
were indeed a girl, who could doubt that
she was beautiful and tender and good ? A
vision and a wonder made his young heart
beat, and his foot more quick on the pavement.
When he passed through the doors of
the sober-seeming club, which had listened
to the wicked whisperings of generations of
old worldlings, and had ogled with its prominent
eye the beauties of a hundred seasons,
there was a light in the face of the
new member, which seemed somewhat peculiar
even to the porter of long experience.

Dick was pleased to find that the Club
dining-room was nearly empty. He felt
more shy than at any moment of his previous
life ; and yet his shyness was so little

painful that it seemed rather to intensify
his pleasurable excitement. He was interested
in a moment in the three young
men, who were the only other occupants of
the room. These were his natural associates;
into such as these his boy friends
must have grown since he left school. Yet
it seemed hard to believe that a few years
could have changed the boys, whom he
remembered, into beings so polished in
appearance, into men of the world so complete
in every detail. The three companions
had much in common. Their collars
were of the same pattern ; their coats had
been cut by the same hand ; their shoes
seemed to have been shaped on the same
lasts. Moreover they had the same air of
confidence ; of smartness tempered in different
degrees by ease ; of youthful health
and vivacity toned more or less in each by
London and late hours. Yet though these
three young men seemed very much alike
at the first glance, all likeness was forgotten

at the second. Certainly the two, whom
Dick from his dining-table could see well,
made an effective contrast. The one was
tall, dark, and slight, with a peculiar air of
distinction, and features almost feminine
in their delicacy. The other was ruddy and
cheerful ; and his brown hair would have
curled like a mulatto's, but for its rigorous
and frequent cropping. He seemed full of
comical thoughts ; he had an unusual share
of that frankness and freshness, which make
very small jokes more acceptable than the
epigrams of ancient diplomatists, and which
win the smiles even of a weary world.
Of the third youth, who was dining with
these two, Dick Hartland could see nothing
but the back of the head, and this was very
black glossy and close-cropped.

Dick lingered over his dinner absorbed
in the contemplation of this young England,
which ought to be so familiar, and which
was so strange. His eyes were ever wandering
to them, and his ears where open to their

talk. After a long and silent observation
he would have gone away happy, had he
not been suddenly roused to fresh and less
agreeable interest by the subject of their
conversation. He had been listening: to a
flow of strange language, in which one or
two phrases seemed every moment to recur
and to be greeted at each recurrence with
laughter ; of chaff more or less personal ;
of allusions to people and places, which
were still names of little meaning to him.
He had been listening like a spectator ina
foreign theatre, with an agreeable sense
that the performers were speaking characteristically,
when he was startled by the
sound of a name as familiar as his own.

*' What did Ossie lose last night ?" asked
the tall young man with the fastidious
expression ; " do you know. Regie ? "

*'Tliey tell me a thousand," answered
his friend of the fresh colour with a gravity
befitting the subject of losses.

"More' said the third gentleman with
a nod of the sleek head and a gravity of
tone even greater.

*' More ! " cried Eeo;ie.

"Oh, Dolamore always makes out the
worst about Ossie," said the first speaker
with a slight frown.

I know this,'^ said Harold Dolamore
with the same cool air of superior information
— " I know that Ossie can't last at this
rate ; he ain't a rich man. I'll bet you a
pony that Ossie Langdon is broke before
the 12th of August."

'' It isn't a thing I care to bet about'
said the other shortly.

"Well, I can't help it," said Harold;
"I'm as sorry as anybody. If I wasn't
fond of Ossie, I should be sorry for his
sister's sake ; she's "

"All I have to say," said the other
breaking abruptly into Dolamore's speech,
"is that it's not Ossie's fault. He's weak

as water ; and fellows take advantage of
his weakness." He frowned rather more
decidedly, and there was a slight flush on
his cheek.

"So she is," cried Reorie in his most
genial manner ; " Miss Betty's the prettiest
girl in London, bar none."

Bar none ! " echoed Dolamore in a
more moderate tone, as he raised his wineglass
to his lips.

And you know it, old man," continued
Regie leaning forward and making a show
of whispering to his tall friend, who remained
obstinately silent on the subject of
Miss Lano^don's charms.

During: this conversation Dick Hartland
experienced a few minutes' great discomfort
; he was wholly ignorant of the manners
of clubs ; he did not know what to do.
However when the talk turned from Ossie
to his sister, he could not sit still. He left
his seat and walked across the room ; and

then with a most boyish blush he said
rather hurriedly, " I think I ought to say
that you are talking about my cousins."

Kegie, who was in the middle of an anecdote,
which With much laughter he was
pouring into Dolamore's ear gave vent to
a peculiar crow, of which he was justly
proud. " Ho ! ho ! " he cried out ; "so we
mustn't talk of the gentleman's cousins."

Dick turned upon the speaker with unfeigned
astonishment ; but the tall young
man put his hand on his arm, and said
rather crossly — " Don't mind Kegie ; he
always says the wrong thing ; nobody
minds Kegie ; you must know him, don't
you ? Everybody knows him ; he's Stan-mere,
you know."

I think I remember him at Eton," said
Dick ; "but I shouldn't have known him."

I thought I knew your face," said
young Lord Stanmere putting out his hand;
you are Hartland ; I remember you ; you

were a swell and I was a snug ; but I remember
you. Come over here, and finish,
your dinner with us. We are going to the
play ; w^eVe got a box ; there's lots of room
for you. And you ought to remember
Harold too — Harold Dolamore. He was at
your tutor's."

Dick turned with surprise to the third
member of the party, who rose with much
politeness to shake hands with him. Certainly
Dolamore was much changed from
the dingy loutish boy, who had attacked
Hartland on the first morning of his school-life.
He was the best-dressed man, the
neatest, and the sleekest of the party.

When Dick had seated himself at the
table of his new friends, Stanmere plunged
at once into school-talk. He certainly enjoyed
an amazing flow of words ; and he
now and then pronounced a sentence or
part of a sentence in a strange tone, which
implied powers of mimicry. Yet in spite

of the young lord's gaiety and frank enjoyment
thereof, Dick found it hard to laugh.
His mind was full of Ossie, and he was
already thinking how he could help him.
At the first opportunity he said to the
fastidious Dodington, " I suppose my cousin
has been playing rather high '? "

Stanmere crowed aloud. " Plunging ! "
he cried ; " he's been plunging like the warhorse."


"Oh, it's nothing," said Dodington; "Ossie
has only been at the same game as everybody
else ; it's the thing just now ; everybody's
playing."

Dick determined to hope for the best ;
he wished to amuse himself for that evening
at least without uneasy thoughts of his
cousin. When Stanmere declared that it
was time to go, he asked what theatre they
were to patronise. " You never need ask
Eegie," said Harold Dolamore; " it's always
the Renaissance. And it's Patty Lane's

benefit and the last night of the season, —
and he wouldn't miss the event for a
million, would you, Regie "? How many
times have you seen *the Beautiful Persian,'
old man ? "

Give it up," answered Regie ; *' I can't
count over twenty."

It's the usual Renaissance business,"
said Toriugton rather plaintively ; *' Patty
Lane has got the best part she has had fora
long time ; everybody goes to see her ;
Regie has been every night."

^' No, no," cried Stanmere ; " Patty's best

part was in Whatdyecallit What was

that thing they played last but one ? You
know, Dolly."

Alonzo."

Yes, that was her best part ; she was the
fair Emma Jane." He began to hum an
air from the extinct burlesque, but broke
off suddenly to say with much gravity,
** She thinks it her best part ? "

Oh, she does, does she ? " said his friend
Dolamore, and he looked askance at Dick,
as if he would see what he inferred from
that statement.

And now Stanmere, who had scarcely
ceased for a moment the humming of frivolous
melodies, broke at the approach of
coffee into actual song. This song appeared
to set forth at due intervals that he was
a proper young man'' and that among
other feats he " only kissed his cousins on
the sly." Perhaps it was not very brilliant,
but it seemed to give the singer himself the
liveliest pleasure, and the hurried delivery
of the word " cousins," which was copied
from a popular actor, delighted him by its
spirit and accuracy.

^' You needn't sing to the waiter," said
Dodington, as the cupbearer disappeared
with a smile of respectful amusement.

Isn't Johnny Dodington a duke 1 " said
Stanmere to Dick; "he's so proud, he won't

VOL. I. H

know you sometimes ; he's haughty sir,
doosid haughty."

He's quite right, Eegie," said Delamere,
"you are bad form. I shall have
to cut you."

^'Oh no you won't," muttered Dodington
as he got up from his chair.

Cut me ! " cried Stanmere ; " I mean
to cut you both, and reform."

Like Prince Hal," said Dick.

The three young men stared at him as
if for an explanation.

Prince which '? " inquired Eegie, and
so obliged assail into souq- —

' He'll catch you a crack
In the small of the back

With his thundering great big stick !

Isn't he splendid as the uncle 1" And
he began to walk round with his cane
under his arm, while the waiter with a
condescending smile stood ready to help
him into his coat.

CHAPTER IX.

It was generally held to be too hot for
the theatres ; and yet the Renaissance on
the night of Patty Lane's benefit was full
in every part. It was the right thing todo
honour to that brilliant little lady.
Any woman, who was in Society, could
say with a sense of comfort that there was
scarcely a person in the house, whom she
did not know by sight ; though there were
some of her own sex with whom she must
have declined any more intimate acquaintance.
To the eyes of Dick Hartland the
house was brilliant and beautiful as a
palace from the 'Arabian Nights.' Almost
the whole floor was covered by the smartest

people male and female. Here and there
was a great lady made conspicuous by
the sobriety of her appearance ; but there
were others with complexions of perplexing
brilliancy and strangely flaxen hair.
There were young men of the same pattern
as Dick's new friends, whose presence was
acknowledged by short jerks of the head ;
but there were others, whose hair seemed
even shorter, canes and shoes brighter,
trousers stiffer and coats tighter, and who
stood up more often to display their well-tailor
figures to the house. Clearly
distinguished from these were two gentlemen
of an aggressively artistic appearance,
who found it necessary to explain to themselves
and to each other their patronage
of so frivolous an entertainment by descanting
on the occult merits of Patty
Lane's performances. These subtle ones
were privileged to see deep meanings in the
little lady's tones and movements, and they

regarded with cold antipathy the simpler
admiration of their cropped and careless
neighbours. There was even a metaphysician
in the midst of this gay audience — a
philosopher who came on principle, that he
might lull to rest the understanding, and
might stimulate the fancy to the recollection
of agreeable shapes, with a view to
dreams. Such, with the inevitable sprinkling
of commonplace if worthy people were
the occupants of the stalls of the Renaissance
Theatre. Stanmere and Dolamore
left their box when the curtain fell for the
first time, and came back after a rather
long absence, the young lord radiant with
the early knowledge of the last joke popular
behind the scenes, and his companion
with an appearance of amusement more
decorously subdued. Dick was annoyed
with himself for being unable to put away
his old school prejudice against Dolamore.
He disapproved of prejudices in the abstract,

but was apt nevertheless to trust
his own until he could get better evidence.
He was confident that he would soon see
through this fellow ; for he held that men
were easily understood. Meanwhile he
was irritated by him, and annoyed with
himself for his causeless irritation. The
truth is that young Mr Dolamore affected
many men in the same manner. There
was something irritating in his repose,
which seemed too perfect to be wholly
natural. He had a manner not uncommon
in these days. It is the effect of a determination
to be scrupulously gentlemanlike
; and deep in the soul of those, who
have cultivated it, one may suspect a
latent fear that, if they dared to be
natural, especially if they dared to be
naturally gay, some deep suppressed vulgarity
would spring to light. It is a
manner assumed by clever young men,
who have a taste for companions better

bred than themselves, and a nervous fear
lest this taste should be confounded with
snobbishness. It is a coolly independent
manner ; it is very like nature ; it becomes
in course of time almost natural ; it is so
good that to those, who wear it well, one
may hear the name ^^ gentleman" applied
rather more often than is really flattering.
Harold Dolamore dressed a little better
than his constant companion Stanmere,
and a little more soberly ; he laughed
much less loud and less often. Though
his scrutiny was so cool as to be sometimes
almost insolent, his manner in addressing
an acquaintance was far more
polite than his friend's. Whether Stan-mere
was a good judge of Dolamore's
merits, or knew why he saw so much of
him, may well be doubted; but he had
been heard more than once to declare
that Dolly was the best fellow in the
world, because he was such a gentleman.

As the curtain was rising on the next
act of this elaborate burlesque, a gentleman
and two ladies came into the opposite box,
which had been conspicuous as the only
empty box on the tier. In the first lady
Dick recognised a connection of his own.
This was Lady Marlborough, Hervie Lang-don's
sister, and a very influential person
in Society ; and the man, who followed her
into the box, was her husband, the eleventh
earl, who seemed to concentrate in his heavy
form and perplexed face the weariness of
the ten who had gone before. There was
a Marlborough lip, of which the family were
justly proud, but it was a lip which did not
lend itself easily to smiles. But neither this
man nor his wife kept Dick's attention for
more than a moment : it was the oriel, who
was with them, on whom his eyes were
fixed with wonder. " Who is it ? " he
said.

*' Don't you know Lady Marlborough I "

asked Dolamore, who was regarding her
with direct but respectful admiration.
Yes, yes," said Dick ; " but the other ? ''
** Well that's a good 'un' said Stanmere ;
don't you know your own cousin ? "
My cousin ! Is that Betty 1 "
^' That's Miss Langdon ; ain't it, Tory V
Eh ? What ? " said Dodington, who had
been looking across the house, and had
heard nothing of what the others were
saying.

During that act Dick's eyes wandered
again and again from the stage to the
opposite box. As he looked he recognised
the girl, whom he had known from childhood
; and yet he could scarcely believe
that this young woman of the world
was she. It was not more than a year
since he had seen her ; and she was a different
creature. To this simple youth, who
had no knowledge of the arts of the dressmaker
and hairdresser, and who had never

considered the revolution which is effected
in a single day of a young girl's life by the
strange process of '^ coming out," the change
in Miss Langdon was inexplicable. He remembered
a blooming young hoyden, restless
and lazy, in a rather shapeless schoolroom
frock ; and here before his eyes was
a beautiful young lady simply but exquisitely
dressed, who sat quite still to
look at the play. Instead of the rough
tumbled locks of old here was a fair head,
bright and smooth, save where the hair
was short and curly above the forehead.
Dick was amazed by her beauty. He had
always heard that she was pretty, and had
accepted the fact without doubt and without
enthusiasm. He remembered with a
sense of shame how untidy she used to be ;
and how passionately fond of chocolate.
With shame more acute he remembered
that he used to call her "Fatty;" that,
when she was lying in the hammock, half

asleep, and with a flushed cheek nestled on
her arm, he had more than once recalled
her to the rude realities of life by an 
shining. Was this fair behoof,
with the outlines of face so softly rounded
and the skin so dazzling, the same girl whom
he had dared to call " Fatty" ? Lived there
a man who would dare set swinD;inof the
hammock, in which this radiant loveliness
sought repose ? Great are the changes of
a single year in the history of a young
girl's life. Nature and art had combined
to adorn Miss Betty. Society and the
example of Lady Raeborough had changed
the schooling, whom Dick condescended
to notice when there were no boys about,
into the beautiful being, who when she
lazily turned her eyes from the stage as
the curtain fell, nodded and smiled to
her cousin with an air of good-humoured
protection.

When Dick had entered Lady Rae-borough's

box, and he and Betty saw each
more nearly, they were both blushing — but
he blushed the most. Lady Marlborough
received the young man with much kindness.
She liked boys, and she liked them
to have good manners and a good appearance.
If in addition to these gifts they
had money, she was pleased to take care
of them, to warn them against one female
friend, to throw them in the way of another.
Her influence with youth was so
great, that harassed mothers trembled at
her nod, and wily mothers paid assiduous
court to her. She had a very refined taste
for making; marriages. She could command
the attentions of the most agreeable
men in Tendon. She called more men by
their Christian names than did any woman
of her acquaintance ; and yet not a woman
of them all had ever dared to breathe a
serious accusation against her. Indeed few
wished to accuse her, for she on her side

never spoke ill of anybody. As this is a
rare virtue in her sex, so is it a virtue
which never fails of its reward. Avoient
are very tolerant of a woman, whose tongue
they need not fear; for it is the fear of
being stabbed by her friend to - morrow
which makes many a woman stab her
friend to day. Taught by their own
mouths how easily the tongue wags and
with what deadly effect, the weaker sisters
smile upon each other with terror in their
hearts ; each is nervously eager to anticipate
the other with some cruel speech.
Such are the weapons of the weak ; and to
such weak ones the rare woman, from
whom they feel absolutely safe, imparts a
restful feeling for which they are profoundly
grateful. Lady Marlborough was
naturally good-natured ; and she was also
well aware that to her good-nature she
owed much of that freedom, which made
her life so pleasant, and which she had

never abused. This popular and delightful
lady saw at a glance th young Hartland
would do her credit. She noticed in a
moment his neat figure, his pleasant smile,
his air of frankness and intelligence, and a
certain natural simplicity of one, who is
never obliged to think about his manners.

o

She liked his eyes too, though they were
perhaps a little too innocent. " I shall call
you Dick'' she said ; " I am a sort of aunt ;
but it's a horrible word, and if you ever
talk about me as your aunt, I shall kill
you. And you must come to my dance
tomorrow ; I am giving a dance for this
child. Good-night."

Yes, do come, Dick," said Betty, smiling;
: ^' o-ood-nio^ht."

CHAPTEK X.

When Dick woke the next morning, his
first thought was of his cousin Ossie. He
rebuked himself for having thought so little
of him the night before. The light and
movement of the stage, the strange audience,
the new friends, and above all the
surprising beauty of the culprit's sister,
had driven poor Ossie's troubles clean out
of his head. Now however he felt ready
for anything. He would dedicate the
morning to the discovery of his wayward
cousin, and of the true state of his finances.
He sang, as he dressed himself,
happy as a happy warrior, with a task
which would tax his strength. All the

morning lie could give to this good work ;
for his mother would not return from
Charing: before luncheon. When his mother
came, he must think of her. Indeed he
was thinking of her a great deal already.
Everything in her small well-ordered London
house was eloquent of her ; the quiet
charm of her presence seemed to linger like
the scent of rose-leaves, though she had
gone away. As he sat alone at breakfast
in the pretty dining-room, he could
almost see his mother opposite, pretty and
demure in her fresh cap, so eminently neat
where everything about her was neat. He
made a little bow to the empty chair; he
laughed with a sense of his good fortune
in having: a mother, of whom he could be
so proud. Not long after breakfast Dick
dashed out of the house, and hurried away
in pursuit of Ossie. Since nothing would
induce Hervie Langdon to sleep in town
in the season, and Lady Raeborough did

not find it convenient to take in a nephew
as well as a niece, Ossie had secured for himself
a couple of little rooms not far from
Piccadilly ; and thither Dick hastened with
the natural expectation of finding his
cousin in bed. He smiled to himself with
the pleasing thought that, if Ossie were in
bed, he could by no means escape from the
lecture which he deserved. He was admitted
by a slatternly maidservant, who
conducted him to his cousin's sitting-room.
The sitting - room was empty, and he
marched through it without ceremony into
the bedroom ; but here, also, there was
nobody. It looked as if the culprit had
escaped. The slavey was perplexed and a
little resentful when Dick questioned her
about the lodger's whereabouts ; but she
consented to see if Mr Langdon's servant
was in the house. Dick paced about the
little rooms, which were very untidy, and
showed a strauss mixture of the lod over's

VOL. I. I

sumptuous property, and the dingy dusty
goods of the landlady. A large dressing-case
; a liberal display of ivory brushes, of
which a pair had strayed as far as the
fringed mantelpiece of the sitting-room ;
a silver cigarette-case ; a cane with a top
of Dresden china lying across the rickety
centre-table; an opera hat in the flabby armchair;
a smoking-suit of stamped velvet
on the dusty floor ; the florid frame of the
dingy looking-glass bristling with cards of
invitation ; these and other details made
Dick, in spite of his disappointment, smile
at their agreement with him, who ought to
have been the central figure in the picture.
The scene was provokingly characteristic ;
but where was the actor '? At last Ossie's
servant appeared, very respectful, but unluckily
very ignorant. All that he knew
was that Mr Langdon had come in on the
previous day when he himself was absent,
had packed a few things with his own

hands, forgetting, as the narrator did not
fail to observe with an air of decent regret,
some of the most essential articles ; and
that he had left word with the young
woman, who seemed to have forgotten the
fact since the night before, as indeed washer
invariable custom, that he was going
into the country. Neither the young
woman nor anybody else could say when
he intended to come back.

Foiled in his attempt to capture his
cousin in bed, Dick next proceeded to visit
all the clubs of which Ossie was a member ;
but at no one of them could he obtain any
news of this irregular member. Then he
went to Lady Marlborough's house, on the
steps of which he encountered a young
palm-tree and a gay company of flowers,
who were the earliest and not the least
beautiful guests at the ball of the evening ;
but not even here could he gain any information
about the object of his search.

Upon this he made up his mind to rest fora
time; and since the luncheon hour was
past and he was very hungry, he jumped
into a cab and was driven homeward. He
had done a good morning's work ; and
though he had learned but little, his conscience
was at rest. He felt very happy
in these old streets, full of afternoon sunlight
and the comfortable sound of rolling
carriages. It was pleasant to feel himself
a part of this humanity, so pleasure-loving,
so leisurely active. Little notes were floating
over half London — invitations, entreaties,
refusals, regrets, rapturous acceptances
on fragrant note-paper. The solemn business
of dropping cards was already beginning,
and majestic butlers appeared framed
in majestic doorways. A brilliant lady
was carried by in her Victoria with her
collie grave-eyed beside her ; another no
less fair sat by her nurse and the baby,
who little knew the value of her own lace ;

a third was glancing hither and thither
with bright eyes from her place between
her two little girls a very mother of butterflies.
All such things, fleeting beauties in
the sunshine, passed the quick observant
eyes of young Hartland, who was delighted
with the little comedies of life.
How pretty and gay it all was, and how
innocent it all seemed !

When Dick had reached his mother's
house, he was told that she had arrived.
He ran quickly up stairs. The door of the
drawing-room stood open, and in the doorway
he stood still with a feeling of surprise ;
for there was Ossie, whom he had been
seeking with such zeal.

Mrs Hartland was sitting in a low chair
by the open window ; and close beside her
stood her loving nephew, and neatly re-arranged
the flowers on her little table.
They were so absorbed by their talk that
neither had heard the light quick step upon

the stairs. Dick, as he looked with admiration
at the pretty group, felt something
like a pang. It struck him that such as
these were the little attentions which people
talked about as pleasing to women ; he
feared that he would be too forgetful of
them all his life. The next moment he
laughed at himself, and laughing stepped
into the room with the slanting sunlight on
his face. Ossie turned to greet him with
the greatest delight. He held him by both
hands and beamed upon him with an expression
so child-like, tender, and innocent,
that Dick straightway forgot all the stories
of his wildness and high play. ^' Let me
go," said Dick; " I want to kiss my mother."
He kissed her very tenderly, and allowed
himself to be kissed on both cheeks. Then
he blushed a little under her calm maternal
gaze ; " Fm all right, mother, ain't I ? " he
asked : and then he besran to tell her all
that had befallen him since he came to

London the day before. He praised Dodington
and Stanmere, his club and his
dinner; he praised the theatre and Lady
Marlborough, who had been *^ awfully kind"
to him ; he expended a double portion of
praise on the beauty of Betty, at which her
brother Ossie, being now in a sentimental
mood, sighed gently.

^' I am glad to see that you are as easily
pleased as ever," said Sophie Hartland, patting
her son's cheek lightly.

"There's so much to be pleased with'
said Dick largely. " But what I want most
now," he added, '' is a little cold meat. I've
been hunting for Ossie all the morning, and
I've had no luncheon."

Ossie went down to Glaring with me,"
said Mrs Hartland ; " he has been a dear
boy and a very good nephew. If you ring
the dining-room bell they will bring you
something to eat ; and take Ossie with you,
for I am going to be busy."

Dick was staring: at his cousin and wondering.
Was it possible that this was the
gambler of whose losses the clubs were talking'?
Dick's long experience of the young
man obliged him to confess that it was
possible indeed.

Dick did not think it wise to begin his
talk with scolding, and so, while Ossie satin
the arm-chair and watched him eating his
late luncheon, he began to speak about his
companions of the evening before. " Dodington's
an awfully good fellow," he said.
When the other fellows went off after the
play, he would walk home with me ; he
talked to me as if we had been friends all
our lives ; he told me all about himself ; he
talked about you as if he really cared about
you, and — what are you smiling at ? "

"You innocent old Dick' said Ossie.
*'I am Betty's brother, and you are her
cousin. Don't you know that Tory is overhead
and ears in love with Betty ? "

'' In love with Betty ! "

That's nothing to shout about. Everybody's
in love with Betty. She's the young
woman of the year. I wish she'd be a little
more careful." And here Ossie shook his
head slowly and with great solemnity.

What do you mean V

*' I don't like the way she goes on. She
keeps poor dear Tory in a fever. One day
she's so kind that he thinks it all right;
and the next she yawns when he talks to
her. Then she flirts with other chaps ; she
will flirt with that fellow Dolly, though I
asked her not to."

"What sort of a fellow is he now ? "

"Oh, he's an awfully good chap, of
course ; but, of course, I wouldn't let
Betty marry him."

Fancy little Betty breaking people's
hearts ! " said Dick after a pause ; and
he beo^an to lauo^h. " Unless she's much
changed," he added, " she won't ask your

permission when she wants to marry
somebody."

"No; I am afraid not," said Ossie with
a chastened gravity.

"From what I hear, you don't take
any too good care of yourself. Dodington
told me you'd been playing too high."

'i've given it up now altogether,"
answered Ossie with the same admirable
seriousness : "I was telling your mother,
when you came in, that I should never
touch a card again."

Did you promise her ? " asked Dick
anxiously.

She wouldn't let me promise. But
there's no need of promises : I don't care
a bit for play." He turned in his chair,
and laid a hand caressingly on his cousin's
shoulder as he added — "Nobody understands
me but you, Dick."

I don't," said Dick.

Oh yes you do," said Ossie, regarding

him with extreme gentleness and with half-closed
eyes : ^' You always did understand
me. I don't really care a bit for cards ;
or betting ; or rowdy people ; or society ;
or anything of the sort. I am really domestic.
"What I like best in the world
is talking to some good woman like your
mother."

That's right' said Dick ; '^ you are
under the right spell there. She is a
good woman."

I ought to marry a woman like that,"
said Ossie sentimentally, — " a good, gentlewoman
with sweet grey eyes. I would go
and live in the country — not at Windsor or
Ascot, or any of those cockney countries —
but far away in Cornwall or somewhere ;
and I'd farm ; I should like to farm. I
think I care more for flowers than for
anything in the world."

*' Well, before you quite give up the world,
Ossie, I hope you'll come with me to the

Eaeboroughs' to-night. I shall be shy, if
you don't."

I can't," said Ossie shaking his head
once more ; '' I've promised to go and tea
with the Medals children. Do you know
them ? They are the dearest children in
the world, and so fond of me ; they won't
let me go till any hour."

*' They'll be in bed before eleven ; they
won't keep you from the ball."

I shouldn't be in the mood," said Ossie
gravely. Then as his dreamy eye happened
to wander to the clock, he jumped up ina
hurry ; " By George ! " he cried, " I shall
be late : I promised to go to tea with
Nelly H. P."

'' Who's Nelly H. P. ? "

Hurtee Parkinson ! You know Nelly
Parkinson 1 "

I know her photograph," said Dick ;
everybody knows that."

She's the best fun in the world," cried

Ossie with sparkling eyes — "but she's an
awful little cat. If I didn't make desperate
love to her, she'd do Betty an ill
turn."

Why should she want to harm Betty ? "

** Oh, she's a great friend of Betty's ;
and Betty's so awfully thoughtless."

"A nice sort of friend she seems to
be," said Dick.

Oh, she's all right ; she's perfectly good
form ; everybody likes her. If I were to
throw her over this afternoon, she wouldn't
rest till she'd done Betty a bad turn ;
I have to be awfully devoted for Betty's
sake ; it's an awful bore ; I must rush ;
good-bye, dear boy ; I shall look you up
tomorrow."

Dick heard the front door shut behind
his cousin, and sat alone wondering what
he should do with him.

CHAPTER XL

A DINING wit, who in spite of his youth
was a guest at many tables, once said that
her society lay in circles round Lady Marlborough,
as the Inferno round Lucifer.
The comparison lacked grace, but was not
without truth. Indeed so vast and unwieldy
has London society become, that
every year it tends more and more to form
itself anew into sets, each distinct though
not exclusive of the others' members, each
composed of ring within ring ; and at the
centre of each — centre of the innermost and
most intimate ring — is a family, a house,
a woman. But as the moon is fairer than
the other beauties of the heaven, so did

Lady Eaeborougli outshine all other leaders
of society. The best people went to her
more gladly than to any other ; and those
happy men, who were admitted to the
smallest parties of all these eminent women,
had the name of Lady Marlborough most
often on their lips. It was not her rank
which made this lady great, though the
earldom was one of the oldest in England;
it was not the family house, though few
could boast of finer rooms. A quick eye
for the more obvious traits of character, and
consummate tact in dealing with them ; unfailing
self-confidence, combined with feminine
charm ; the rare and natural good-humour,
which did not prevent her from
executing prompt justice on the wretch
whose offence against society could by no
means be ignored ; the hand of iron in the
Parisian glove ; the kind heart under the
Parisian gown ; the quick ear to hear ; the
tongue which was so often witty and so

seldom cruel ; these were the gifts and virtues
which made this happy lady a queen
in the social world. Her very rivals were
not embittered by her success ; the coldest
among them but rarely cared to hint disapproval
of her delightful gaiety and harmless
freedom. Free and gay she sat upon
her social throne, and her society lay in
circles around her. Farthest from her, in
the widest circle, were people of all kinds
political supporters of the Earl's brother,
country neighbours and their cousins, most
respectable ladies attended by Thomas,
Richard, and Henry — the great crowd who
three times a-year thronged the broad staircase,
and jostled each other respectfully
under the wide ceilings, which had been
sumptuously painted by a modern imitator
of the Caracas. In this wide region priestesses
of the innermost sanctuary met with
effusion ; but not one of those, who belonged
exclusively to this most distant place, might

set foot a fourth time in the year within
that spacious marble hall. Three times
they were received with consummate grace ;
for the rest they were absent from that
lady's busy mind, but were present on her
list, till the hand of Death, or of the implacable
butler whose task it was to punish
the neglect of social duties, struck out their
names. Within this glacial circle were
regions, ring within ring, each more genial
as it lay nearer to the central glow ; and
the denizens of each enjoyed the privileges
of all outside them with some peculiarly
their own. Those came to smaller gatherings,
and dined occasionally at the most
formal banquets ; these dined more often
and sometimes at more friendly dinner-parties.
Close around the centre of the
target, the very gold, the lady herself, were
the select, the chosen intimates, the dear
friends of the charming Countess of Marlborough.
Within this sacred circle a duchess,

VOL. I. K

whose influence was confined too strictly
to her. county, might fear to tread ; but a
little lady, whom everybody knew, though
it was doubtful if even she knew her grandfather,
was one of its most sparkling ornaments.
To these sacred precincts the dining
wit, who was but young to his work, stung
by some gadfly of a mad ambition, had like
the fabled fool rushed in. Around him was
babble of talk, which fell on his startled
ear as from an unknown tongue ; talk of
people called by Christian names or more
familiar abbreviations ; the last tale of
Charlie's wildness, or of Susan's extravagance.
Chilled by this rare atmosphere
the diner was deserted by his wit ; his
great loose lips hung dry and doleful ;
silence became intolerable ; calling all his
vanity to support him he plunged into a
story, which was not quite new, and which
was too broad for the occasion. It was at
some moment during the next twenty-four

hours that this unfortunate young man,
striving to solace his wounded spirit with
epigrams, chanced on that comparison of
Lady Marlborough with the central figure
of the Inferno, which has been condemned
already as deficient in grace.

It need hardly be said that the ball, to
which Dick Hartland had been bidden,
was not one of the most exclusive gatherings.
There was need of many people,
that the great rooms might not appear
uncomfortably empty. It was necessary
too that there should be troops of dancing
men ; and the majority of these had no
individuality in the eyes of their hostess,
who received them with such artful-artless
grace. Many a youth, whose name she
had never cared to ask, fancied that he
had made an impression : by such agreeable
means did Lady Marlborough increase
without effort the general sum of happiness.

Dick had been commanded to come early,

and he was one of the first to touch the
slender hand of his hostess, who stood like
a benignant goddess at the head of her
great staircase. From Lady Marlborough
his eyes turned to the girl who stood beside
her. If Betty had looked beautiful in
the theatre, she looked twice as beautiful
now ; she was radiant in her new gown, and
with the prospect of pleasure. She greeted
her cousin with great good humour on his
first appearance in her little world. " Can
you dance '? " she asked.

"I think so," said Dick.

She gave a little laugh, which showed
her white teeth, as she said ; " If you
ain't sure, you had better talk to me
when I am not dancing." Here her manner
changed, and she added with far more
emphasis, — " Please Dick ; whenever I am
not dancing; I've so much to tell you."

Dick was surprised by the change,
but, as he was about to question her,
he felt himself gently pushed aside.

Dodington was in his place, and was asking
his cousin for a dance. " How are
you ? " said Dick cheerfully to his new
friend.

Dodington nodded ; but the eye, which
he turned on Dick, was less cordial than
on the previous evening.

No, I am not engaged'' said Betty
lazily ; and as she moved away on Dodington's
arm she turned to say to her cousin, —
*' Remember ! Directly after this dance ! "

'^ If you would rather not dance this — ''
began Dodington coldly.

Oh, I don't mind," she said ; '^ come
on ; somebody must begin."

And now the rooms began to fill more
quickly, and the babble of voices grew
fuller in the ear. Dick, who knew very
few people, drew back into a corner and
looked out with curiosity and excitement.
He seemed to be aware for the first time
of the beauty of women. He had talked
without a thrill with the peasant women

of France or Holland ; he had chatted all
his life with the housewives of his native
village ; but it was hard to examine these
fair ladies with the same cool accuracy.
He was strangely uncritical that evening.
He gazed with admiration on complexions,
which deceived no one else ; he saw
poetry in the dark circles of Miranda's
eyes, nor suspected the soft touch of the
pencil. If on every side was abundant
hair flaxen, golden, or foxy-red, was he
not among his own fair countrywomen ?
When the dance was finished, he remembered
his cousin's commands and went to
look for her. She was standing in the
doorway; and exactly opposite to her and
talking to her was that most brilliant of
beauties, Mrs Hurtee Parkinson. All about
the doorway men were looking and comparing
; behind Betty's elbow was Dodington
looking taller and paler than usual ;
for the rest a small space was left about

the ladies. Mrs Parkinson's hair was
of the most becoming shade, her cheek
not too brilliant, her eyebrows not too
strongly contrasted with the fair fuzzy
curls on the top of her head ; her dress
was peculiar and yet strictly fashionable ;
her slim but remarkably pretty figure
was displayed to the best advantage. It
seemed to Dick that Betty was altogether
too cool under the direct and critical scrutiny
of this little woman. He thought
too that Dodington, who avoided his eye,
liked this little scene no better, than he did.
Mrs Parkinson stood with her head on
one side and dangling her large fan.
'' How lovely you look to-night," she said
with the prettiest emphasis on the adjective.
The girl pouted and fanned herself.
She liked direct compliments ; she liked
the presence of men, who stood about
and admired her ; she was glad that Dick
was a witness of this little triumphal

episode ; but the chief pleasure of the
moment was derived from the knowledge
that John Dodington was close to her, and
could not tear himself away in spite of
his annoyance. Miss Langdon liked to bethe
centre of a little scene, if it didn't
involve too much trouble. She loved
amusement, when it was brought to her.
On this occasion it was brought to her
in a most lively shape. Stanmere pushed
his way through the admiring men, and
his face was beaming like the sun. '* It's
our dance, Miss Langdon," he said ; " how
goes it Mrs Parkinson ? I suppose Miss
Langdon '11 throw me over as usual."

"No," said Betty smiling in her most
agreeable manner, and she went away listening
to an animated flow of nonsense ; as
she went, she nodded to Dick ; but she
gave neither look nor word to Dodington,
who turned gloomily away to the staircase.

Of course you don't see poor me," said

Miss Bond, as Dodington almost stepped on
her ; " nobody sees me when all these beauties
are on the carpet ; I am only fit to be
trampled on." Susan Bond was a popular
girl, and even more clever than popular.
She was not pretty, but she was always
well dressed ; she danced well, and with all
sorts of partners ; she had good teeth, and
was given to much laughter. She could
play the piano, do conjuring tricks, arrange
tableaux, and talk to almost anybody
about almost anything. She had a reputation
for making things go off well. She
was such a nice girl to have in a country
house. 'isn't Betty a perfect dear to-night?"
she said to Dodington. She was given to rapture
about her girl friends ; and she knew
that this young man would like this subject,
if somebody else would introduce it.

As Dick was looking and wondering, he
felt a' touch on his shoulder; he turned
and saw the smiling face of his hostess.

*' Who are you staring at ? '* lie asked,
and she held up a warning figure ; " have
you fallen in love with anybody ? "

AYith everybody I " answered Dick
laughing ; " it's intoxicating ; I am in love
with them all."

Them all ! " said drily the old Statesman,
on whose arm Lady Marlborough
was leaning; " We should have said
'you all and not excluded the most
charming woman in the rooms." The
old gentleman directed a skinny forefinger
towards Dick's ribs, and chuckled.
Dull dogs these boys, dull dogs ! " he
added to the lady, as they moved away
together.

A little later in the evening Dick found
himself with some surprise on the most
friendly terms with the fascinating Mrs
Parkinson. She was delighted with his
freshness ; she told him that he was cherubic,
and suggested that he should take her

down to supper. When they entered the
dining-room, she gave a little cry of interest.
"There's your naughty little cousin
Ossie," she said. Ossie, in spite of his protestations,
was undoubtedly there ; though
he had not advanced beyond the ground-floor.
He had brought Dolamore to supper
; and the friends were supping gaily.

'' You naughty boy ! " said Mrs Parkinson
; *^ why didn't you come earlier, and
dance with me ? "

I couldn't," said Ossie gravely ; *' I've
been doing a Bear for the Medals children."

Are you a bear still 1 " asked the lady,
''or will you ask me to dance now that you
are here ? "

It can't be done," said Ossie ; " I've a
very particular engagement ; " and he shook
his elbow with a knowing air.

Naughty boy I naughty boy ! " said the
lady archly.

'' Where's H. P. 1 " asked the boy ; " you

know I've some peculiar tastes — I like
H. P."

"You are really too good," said Mrs
Hurtee Parkinson ; " the poor dear has got
another of his colds ; he insisted on my not
staying at home."

To tallow his nose. I should like to
see you doing the domestic." Ossie winked
slightly at Dick, and filled the lady's
glass with champagne. " And you came
here to see me ? " he asked with exaggerated
tenderness.

The lady laughed a most silvery laugh.
*' Ridiculous child ! " she said. " Take me
up-stairs, Mr Hartland, before your cousin
says anything wicked."

Where are you going ? " asked Dick of
Ossie.

To the club," said he ; " come on there
when Mrs H. P. is tired of you; I'm furiously
jealous of you ; come on Dolly ; you've had
enough to eat ; let's to business, my boy."

CHAPTER XII.

When Dick went up-stairs after supper, he
found that the scene had changed. Many
people had gone, and others were refreshing
themselves in the dining-room. There was
no longer a crowd ; and the more serious
dancers were dancing with the religious
zeal of whirling dervishes. They assured
each other in the necessary pauses and with
broken voices that it was delightful to have
room to move, that the floor was perfect,
that it was the best house in London for a
ball. But, though these were warm in their
praises as in their blood, they were not
many enough to counteract the general air
of weariness. There were girls, to whom

the right men had not been attentive ; men
who had missed expected pleasures or were
repenting neglected duties ; thin mothers
growing chilly at the approach of dawn, and
fat mothers half strangled by unconquerable
yawns. Even in Dick's eyes the fresh
beauty of many faces had faded like a
dream ; even he could hardly be blind to
powder deep upon the withered cheek and
little wrinkles at the corners of dark-rimmed
eyes. Something excessive in the bloom of
the lady, who was leaning on his arm, made
him avert his gaze, while he blushed at his
unmanly suspicion. As his eyes wandered
round the room, they met those of his cousin
Betty. Miss Langdon showed no sign of
fatigue. If she were a little less rosy, she
seemed the lovelier for this new refinement;
if her gown were a little less fresh, it draped
more exquisitely her beautiful form.

Leave me on this chair, please," said
Mrs Parkinson with her quick bird-like

glance and sudden smile ; '^ leave me ; your
cousin wants you ; go."

Dick bowed with a smile for her little
imperious manner. When he came to Betty,
she seated herself and pointed to the next
chair.

You haven't been near me all the evening,"
she said.

I haven't had a chance," said Dick ;
"you've had an army of people running
after you. I can't get over it, Betty ; I
can't get over your being such a personage;
a young lady with a troop of lovers,
and "

Hush ! " said Betty ; " you mustn't talk
like that. Suppose somebody heard you."

There's Dodington," said Dick, looking
with a smile to the opposite doorway, from
whence his new friend was surveying the
room. Dodington wore an exaggerated
air of indifference, which seemed hardly
consistent with the nervous energy of the

hands that were busily twisting bis gloves
into a confused knot.

"Don't look at him," murmured Betty
with her eyes fixed on the fan in her lap ;
"I want to talk to you." In spite of this
statement she seemed to have nothing to
say ; and after some minutes waiting Dick
said, " Tm off : I think Dodington wants to
speak to you'

Please ! please don't go ! "

There was no resisting this soft appealing
voice and the look, which came with the
words. Dick was bound to stay ; but he felt
that if he stayed, he ought to scold his cousin.

Betty," he said in that tone, which
Ossie had known so well in Eton days
as the warning signal of an approaching
"jaw"— "Betty," he said, "I feel as if
you were being awfully hard on Dodington."

She looked at him with gravity and
regret, but there was promise of a demure
smile about the corners of her mouth.

*' Everybody seems to know that he is in
love with you," he added severely.

Hush ! " she said ; '* you really mustn't
talk in this shocking way."

"You ought not to behave badly," said
Dick warming to his work ; '' you know
what power you've got ; and you ought not
to use that power just to make mischief —
to do harm in the world."

Power ! I ! " she murmured.

Oh, you know all about it," said. Dick ;
'^ you know well enough that you ought not
to play fast and loose with a good fellow.
You are bound either to take him, or to let
him go. Do you mean to take him ? "

^'I don't know," she answered; "how
comical you are ! " and she laughed.

"You ought to know. You ought to
think of him."

I think too much of him," she said and
sighed ; *' I'm tired to death of thinking
about him."

VOL. I. L

Do you mean to marry him ? "

Hadn't I better wait till he asks me ? "
she asked softly.

You know he'd ask you fast enough, if
you gave him a chance."

^' Please don't go ; Dick, please don't
leave me ; if you leave me for a moment, till
he's gone, I'll never forgive you. Please ! "

Miss Langdon threw so much expression
into the word ^' Please," that few men could
resist it.

Should you like him to marry any one
else ? " asked the Inquisitor sternly.

Susan Bond would suit him exactly,"
she said demurely ; " Susan would like it."
Then she suddenly sat up straight and
laughed. " He's gone," she said ; "I know
his parting glance. Now you may go too.
You ought to go and look after Ossie. He
needs it a great deal more than I do : I am
so glad you've come back — because now you
can keep Ossie straight."

Betty Lad grown up in the belief that
it was Dick's business to look after Ossie.
Ossie shared the belief; and, moreover, he
was fond of being looked after. He liked
to get lots of good advice, and felt an additional
pleasure in neglecting it.

Good-night, Betty," said Dick gravely ;
and don't be too cruel. It never occurred
to me before what mischief girls might do."

She looked at him with a pathetic raising
of the pretty eyebrows, but made no other
answer : she looked provokingly comfortable.


"When Dick found himself on the pavement
with the first light of dawn about his
head, he was aware of a strong and healthy
inclination to go home and to bed. And
yet he had no thought of yielding to this
inclination ; he must look after Ossie ; the
mere sidit of Ossie had been enough to
double his old feeling of responsibility.
"When he reached the Club, he found it

almost empty. The Head Waiter informed
him that Mr Lan2fdon had been there with
Mr Dolamore, and had gone away with the
same gentleman. Then with a manner at
once respectful and caressingly confidential
the waiter dropped his voice, and informed
]mr Hartland that he rather thought that
Mr Lanofdon and Mr Dolamore mio;ht be
found at No. 17a in the next street. As
Dick looked doubtful, his informant added,
It is a club, sir, recently opened ; many
of our gentlemen frequent it at present,
sir ; they go, I understand, to play cards."

No. 17a had been recently a private
house ; a short lease of it had been taken
by some enterprising gentlemen, and it had
been converted at once into a club, with
few if any changes of internal arrangement,
and with the readiest admission to all men
who wished to risk their money. Young-men
in dress clothes were readily admitted
in the small hours ; and Dick was told at

once that he would find Mr Langdon in
the front room on the first floor. Dick
disliked the look of the place. It was a
private house run to seed. The hall was
dingy, the banisters dusty ; and over the
marble mantelpiece was a great square
patch of darker colour, which had been
lately covered by an equestrian portrait of
a general long forgotten by an ungrateful
country, and recently disposed of — frame
and canvas and all. Through a door on the
left Dick saw a plentiful cold supper laid
out ; here and there was a dirty plate, which
told of some solitary fester ; there were
pink shades over all the lights ; and on the
sideboard amid a great array of bottles
stood a cheap copy of the Venus de' Medici
in alabaster. This statue seemed to be the
only concession to artistic taste : it was
clear that the youngest of clubs relied for
its success on other and more dangerous
attractions.

Dick did not linger amid the scant beauties
of the ground floor. He ran up-stairs,
and turning; the c^ilt handle of the drawings
door looked on a scene, which was
even less to his liking. Opposite to him
old curtains of red velvet had been drawn
across the two high windows by some careless
hand, and through the gaps the early
light stole faint and blue into the room,
and made the flames of the few candles
strangely yellow. Everything except the
heavy furniture had been removed by the
late occupants. Along one side of the room
two long; brass-bound cabinets stood side
by side ; on them was nothing but dust,
and in them nothing but dusty shelves.
On the other side three sofas, which had
once been gorgeous, were pushed against
the wall ; and on these had been thrown
greatcoats, canes, silk scarves, and opera
hats in elegant confusion. In the middle
of the room were a couple of card-tables ;

and around one of these tables men were
standing, silent, intent upon the game.
When Dick had taken a few steps into the
room, he saw that the man facing him, the
boy with the flushed face and tumbled hair,
was Osbert Langton.

Presently the silence was broken ; the
men about the table straightened themselves,
and all beo:an to talk at once. Ossie
dropped his cards with a laugh, and, as he
did so, saw his cousin.

'^ I can't go on any more," he said ;
here's my nurse come for me."

Somebody laughed ; all faces were turned
to Dick, and Dolamore stepped forward
politely and shook the new-comer by the
hand.

*' Have a drink % " asked Ossie as the
cousins were eroino; downstairs together
No ? Nor will I. I will go home to bed
like a good boy."

Dick blew a strong breath, as they stepped

into the street ; " What a fusty life ! "
he said.

"Isn't it? 'said Ossie ; "it's beastly; I
hate it." After a pause he added, " I'm
clean broke, old man. I shall have to borrow
a few hundreds from you. It's your
fault ; the luck was just on the change, and
I was in for a good thing, when in you
came ; and out went luck. I shall be uncommonly
glad when the season's over ; I'll
come and stay with you ; I always feel
good in the country ; when I'm with your
mother, I feel like an angel. She's an
angel, Dick, your mother is. I should
be awfully good if she was my mother."

Ossie's voice had become more and more
solemn : but Dick showed no stern of behoof
impressed. He strode along with his hands
deep in the pockets of his light overcoat.
He kept silence in spite of his cousin's
pathetic glances, till they reached the
house, where Ossie lodged. Then, when

the key was in the door, Dick said, —
Look here, Ossie ! If I lend you money,
you must promise me to give up play. Will
you promise 1 "

Ossie left the key in the door, and turned
round on the step. His hat on the back of
his head had rather a rakish air ; but the
corners of his mouth were drawn down with
an expression sufficiently contrite. " Dick
my dearie," he said, and he laid his hands
on his cousin's shoulders with the caressing
manner of a child, — " Dickie old man, I'll
promise anything you ask me. But you
know, old chap, my promises ain't worth
much. I'd just as soon not promise."

*' I'll lend you the money," said Dick ; —
and do try not to be such a fool."

I'll try," said Ossie ; '* good - night,
Dickie, and thank you. I'm a poor creature
; that's the worst of it. Good-night ! "

CHAPTER Xin.

Dick would have liked to celebrate his
twenty-first birthday as quietly as the
twenty which had gone before ; but when
he spoke on the subject with his mother, he
saw at once that there were certain ceremonies
connected with the cominof-of-aofe
of a Hartland, which she regarded with
religious veneration. " I had hoped," she
said with a slight tremor in her voice,
that everything would be as it was when

your father "

Then Dick made haste to interrupt her.
It shall be exactly as you wish, mother,"
he said ; and after a minute he added more
quietly, " I only wish I was sure that it

would always be as easy for me to do what
you wish''

She gave him her hand without speaking.
Presently it appeared that with a view to
this important day in her son's life she had
treasured all the accounts of the festivities
which had been celebrated in honour of his
father. " It seems so strange to think,"
she said with a sad smile, " that at that
time I had not seen your father. I found
these papers after we were married ; and I
kept them for you." After this Mrs Hart-land
indulged in no more reminiscences,
but busied herself with preparations, which
were to do honour to her boy. She left
London early in July that she might have,
plenty of time before the birthday, which
was in the first week of August.

Dick felt sorry that the season was draw-ins
to a close. He had come to London so
late, that he had not had enough of the
movement and brightness of this fantastic

world. People seemed to him so much
kinder and more natural, than his occasional
doses of cynical fiction had led him
to expect. One day, when he was holding
forth on this theme, he saw his cousin Disregarding
him with the tender superiority
of a friend who had lost his illusions.

You old innocent," said Ossie softly ;
do you suppose these women don't know
the acreage of Glaring, and how much
a-year you will put in your pocket ? "

"Pooh, pooh!" answered Dick loftily;
some of the kindest are people for whom
I couldn't do anything, if I wanted to."

"But you are important, Dickie," said
the young man of the world ; " you are
somebody ; they like to know somebodies ;
it's comfortable ; they like to have 'em in
their houses."

What right have you to talk this cynical
stuff; I am sure people are kind enough
to you."

So they are," said Ossie with a sigh ;
'^ and I give 'em nothing but anxiety."

However injustice to Mr Langdon it maybe
said that after the night of Lady Rae-borough's
ball his conduct for the rest of
the season was distinguished by unusual
moderation.

Dick almost forgot to look after his wayward
cousin. With the din of London
Society thundering in his ears and his
memory busy with a thousand trifles, he
gave himself to the pleasure of the fleeting
moment, and went on his careless way
with laughter and an open heart. Nevertheless
he did find time for an interview
with the family solicitor ; and for more
than one interview with a lawyer who was
a personal friend of his own. There was
one action, which is usually connected with
the majority of a land-owner, about which
the young squire had made up his mind
once and for ever. He had determined not

to deprive himself of the power of doing
with his property whatever might at anytime
seem good in his eyes. He meant
to keep his real estate in his own hands.
And now the great day was approaching ;
and the old house in Glaring Park was full
of guests. There was Lady Marlborough, so
quick with life and energy that it seemed
as if she could begin another season on the
morrow. She had come with her husband,
her maid, her pug, and Mrs Hurtee Parkinson,
who was to amuse the Earl, until it was
time to carry him to Scotland. There was
Hervie Langdon with his son and daughter;
Miss Susan Bond dio was invited as
Betty's dearest friend ; the great Mr Kirby
but just freed for a time from the duties of
critical opposition, and accompanied on this
occasion by his silent little wife and that
one of his daughters who was most like her
mother. There w-ere Lord Stanmere and
John Dodington as friends of the hero of the

occasion, and likely to amuse the girls ; and
Fabian Deane, who would have come from
the works end to do honour to his whilom
23upil. These — with Mrs Meryon, who would
on no account be absent from her daughter
Sophie at a time, which could not but be
eloquent of melancholy recollections, and a
small detachment of distant relatives, who
represented another branch of the Hartland
family — filled the old house from garrets to
cellars so full, that even the old Glaring
ghost could scarce find room to walk.
Everybody was happy in his or her peculiar
fashion. Everybody said how delightful it
was to get into the country again ; that the
weather could not be more favourable ; that
it was impossible for anybody to come of
age at a more convenient time. It seemed
impossible that anybody in such a place,
and under such a sky could be unhappy.
There was no room in so fair a world for
any grief more tragical than the soothing

melancholy, which nourished the sympathetic
heart of Mrs Meryon.

The second day had been chosen for the
cricket match with the village. Dick had
gone off after breakfast with the younger
men to meet the rest of his eleven on the
cricket-ground ; and, after an interval long
enough to prove their independence, most
of the ladies had followed them. Sophie
Hartland, as she stood at the end of the
terrace looking westward, could see beyond
the gentle hoUJhv of the land the flash fluttering
on the top of the white tent, and
on the smooth-shaven green small fissures
in white flannel. She could see moreover,
or thought that she could see, which of
the active youth was her own boy, for
whom, when but a baby, his father had
laid down that cricket ground, and had
boasted of the games which he and his boy
would play together. Mrs Hartland was
so intent upon the distant scene, and so

full of the thoughts which that scene
aroused, that she did not hear the heavy
tread behind her ; she started as Mr Kirby
spoke close to her ear.

'^I am glad to find you alone," he said.

When she turned at the sound of his
voice, there was the broad red face so close,
that the little lady, obedient to an impulse
of which the next moment she was ashamed,
drew a little backward. Mr Kirby threw
the end of his cio:ar into a flower - bed.
He was wholly unconscious of the dislike
which he aroused in Mrs Hartland, whom
he always extolled as ''a charming little
woman ; " while she, for her part, had a
prodigious respect for the politician's practical
sagacity.

'^I want to talk to you about Dick,"
Mr Kirby began. "When are we to put
him into Parliament '? "

Now this question was by no means
unexpected. When Dick was a little boy

VOL. I. M

his mother had decided that he was to
have a political career. In later days, when
her son was poring over political pamphlets
or volumes of political economy, she had
once or twice made a careless remark,
which was intended to invite confidence ;
but Dick had always treated the subject
as a joke, and made serious discussion
impossible by a declaration one day of
communistic principles — another, of his
determination to become Prime Minister.
And so Mrs Hartland had learned to refrain
from all allusion to politics. She did not
know what were Dick's intentions ; and
she was by no means content to be ignorant.
So when Mr Kirby trod heavily upon
the subject, he aroused in her a tumult of
feelings which, had he suspected it, would
have filled him with amazement. She
grew pale, and then red ; and she moved
away to the garden-seat, which was close
at hand, with a sudden feeling of the

necessity of support. As the politician
deposited his solid bulk beside her, she
was rapidly debating whether she should
tell him everything or nothing. He was
the last man to whom she liked to confess
that there was not perfect confidence between
herself and her only son. On the
other hand, she declared to herself that
she must not sacrifice Dick's career, which
might depend so much on the help of this
man of political sagacity and experience,
to any foolish prejudice of her own. She
knew that people were always laughing at
women as irrational creatures. It seemed
that her own boy attached no value to her
advice. Nevertheless, she would try to
help him ; and thus she would prove to
herself once more that she could prefer the
sensible course to her merely feminine impulse.
Mrs Hartland need not have distressed
herself. Her companion was more
inclined to deliver his views, than to listen

to her confessions. He liked to sit in the
sun ; and he liked to say what he had to
say to an attentive listener and a charming
little woman. He preserved an air of
attention while the lady, with a successful
effort to appear calm, said that she could
not answer for Dick — that he was deeply
interested in political questions, but seemed
somewhat unsettled.

'' I rather think," she said with a little
laugh, " that Dick has some highly revolutionary
tendencies." The little laugh had
no natural sound ; but Mr Kirby had no
ear for delicate distinctions in laughter.

Revolutionary is he ? " he said ; and
he chuckled. "My dear lady, we like
that. That's just what we look for in a
young 'un. It frightens the women ; and,
of course, it's all the dam'dest nonsense — I
beg your pardon, but it is, you know — but
it's the riojht think; at the right time of life.
It's the rash young 'un makes the good

liorsemaiL That's what my sporting friends
tell me. Radicalism should be taken young
like the measles — and first love, — and
things of that sort, eh ? " Here the great
man grew red with half-stifled laughter,
being mightily pleased to find himself in
so humorous a vein. " The great thing is,"
he continued with a more solemn air, " to
get your Radicalism over early ; to take it
strong and get rid of it for ever ; to get it
clean out of the blood. Look at old birmingham
! He took it too late in life ; and
he has never got it out of his system.
Every now and then he has a touch of it ;
it spoils a Bill ; or it crops out unexpectedly
in a speech, and enrages a foreign power.
Don't you be frightened by Mr Dick's
radical nonsense ; there's nothing to steady
a man like such a bit of land as this." He
waved his heavy arm to the slope before
them, the wood and the rich valley below ;
but his companion's eyes wandered away

to the right and rested somewhat wistfully
on the distant cricket-ground.

*' It's the thing for a young man to be
revolutionary. You may believe me. We've
all been through that. Your boy is exactly
what I was at his ao;e."

A pang shot through the mother's heart,
and for a moment she turned her startled
eyes on her companion. He thought that
she could scarcely credit this great comforting
truth ; and so flushed with kindliness
he repeated it with greater emphasis. '•' I
give you my word," he said, as he laid a
large red hand on hers with a protecting
air ; "I give you my word that he has
reminded me ao;ain and ao-ain of what I
was at his ao^e."

Mrs Hartland's eyes had wandered back
to the young figures scattered on the
distant green. She was reassured. She
felt a return of warmth. After all things
might be much worse. It was clearly impossible

that Dick, that her husband's son
should ever become like John Wilmading
Kirby.

"You won't mind my speaking to the
boy asked Mr Kirby, as the lady rose
from her seat.

Of course not," she said smiling. '' Besides,"
she added with a little laugh, in
which a keener ear might have discerned
a pathetic sound, — " what have I to say toit?
In a few days Dick will be his own
master."

Meanwhile this young man, about whose
future many worthy people took thought
at least sufficient, was himself thinking of
none of these things. Affairs public and
private were alike absent from his mind.
He was standing up in the sunlight, with
the peak of his cap on the back of his neck,
and sloo'OTnoj the village bowling; with entire
satisfaction.

Did you ever see such energy ? " asked

Ossie wearily, as he lay in the shadow of
the tent by the feet of Miss Susan Bond.

"You are not troubled with that complaint,"
said the young lady, as she tapped
him playfully on the head with her large
parasol ; but Ossie only looked at her under
his drooping lids with tender reproach.

CHAPTER Xii.

Dick was returning from the village in the
highest spirits. He had been dining at the
Old Bear with his tenants, the prosperous
farmers who paid him rent. He declared
that he had enjoyed himself immensely ;
he had made a speech, which was received
with laughter and applause ; his health
had been drunk ; and he had left the
f casters at a comparatively early hour,
when wine had given place to spirits, and
cigars and pipes were lighted. It was time
that he should return to his other guests at
the house.

"What jolly fellows they are!" he said
to Fabian Deane,' as they walked back
together across the Park.

Yes," said Fabian ; " they're jolly
enough, when they are gorging and guzzling
at your expense. I wonder if their
labourers think them jolly fellows."

'' Good fellows they are," said Dick, " if
you know how to manage them ; and anybody
can manage them ; they have got
hearts, every one of them. They'll be
generous enough, if you don't bully them
into generosity."

I. hate 'em," said Fabian briefly ; " they
are narrow and obstinate ; they eat too
much beef."

Narrow yourself ! " said Dick, laughing ;
'you ought to have dined at home, as I
advised you. Miss Susan isn't narrow."

'' That's a clever girl," cried Mr Deane.
By George, she is a clever girl ! " he
repeated fiercely, as if somebody had contradicted
him.

The dinner at Charing: had been less
noisy than on the previous evenings. There

were many complaints of their young host's
absence. Even Stanmere had been rather
quiet ; and Dodington had hardly spoken a
word. There was a certain uneasiness in
the air. All the women felt that something
was going to happen ; that a crisis
was at hand in the world of sentiment.
In the drawing-room the party became
even less lively. Lord Raeborough showed
unmistakable signs of the approach of boredom
; he fidgeted, and looked again and
again at his wife with eyes heavy and reproachful.


'' Nellie, my dear," said Lady Raeborough
to Mrs Hurtee Parkinson ; " do go and
amuse Covenant. He has got on new
shoes, and you haven't noticed them." So
little Mrs Parkinson crossed the room with
her fine eyes fixed on Lord Raeborough's
shining feet, and asked him how such a big
man could walk on them ; and she sat by
him, till he smiled unwillingly ; and then

she tripped to the piano and sang the Last
new song from Italy, which expressed in
the conditional mood the passionate desire
of the composer to weep because the grass
was wet with dew, and to die because the
violets bloomed. The rest of the party
played a card-game, but without much
pleasure ; and nobody was amused except
himself by Stanmere's facetious cheating.
sirs Hartland felt that her guests were not
gay, and began to wonder what women of
the world did to make their parties go off
well ; she was vexed with her mother for
sitting close beside her, and growing more
and more peacefully happy as the social
barometer fell.

Into the midst of the party thus irrationally
dull Dick came as a new excitement
with Fabian at his heels. " What on earth
are you staying in the house for ? " he
asked as he entered the room. ''Do you
know that it's the loveliest nio-ht of the

year, with a moon shining like — like anything
? "

Everybody jumped up ; Stanmere threw
the cards up to the ceiling; half the
people began to question the new-comers
about the dinner and the farmers.

*' Oh may we go out, dear Mrs Hart-land
? " asked Miss Bond with the pretty
deferential manner, which she never forgot
to use for the benefit of her gentle hostess.

"Go out'? of course," cried Dick, who
was just telling his mother that he had had
a Teat success at his dinner : " come alone
Ossie, and get cloaks and things." Dick
was back in a minute with his arms full
of shawls and divers wraps. As he came
in, he passed a cloak to Dodington with
a smile ; it was Betty's cloak. Dodington
knew it well ; but yet he raised his eyebrows
as one who would ask a question,
and looked round as if to see who claimed
the garment. This tall handsome young

man looked pale, and almost laggard. He
had slept ill of late. He was in a condition
absurdly sensitive. He could not bear to
speak to anybody of his hopes and fears ;
and yet he knew every other moment that
nobody would be blind to his distress.
A neat, careful, and successful cricketer, he
had distinguished himself the day before
by making some wild hits off the best
village bowling, and succumbed; ignominiously
to one of the slowest of the second
gardener's slow half-volleys. It could not
be concealed from the eyes of the old professional,
who umpire, that something had
gone wrong with this young gentleman.
Truly he was in a parlous state. "This
is yours I think ? " he said to Miss Lang-don
after a moment's elaborate indecision.
'' Thanks," she said ; '' that's too warm ; "
and she plucked a light shawl from under
Dick's arm, and so with a firm hold of
Susan Bond, vanished through the window.

Not without your duenna ! " cried Mrs
Hurtee Parkinson, and she rapped Ossie playfully
on the shoulder as she followed the girls.

Come on' said Dick to Dodington.

No, thanks," said he with a voice unnaturally
languid ; "I have got hold of a
book that is awfully interesting."

Perhaps Dick would have expressed some
surprise at this new taste for literature, but
at that moment Stan mere clad in a long light
ulster rushed through the room, and swept
his host before him out of the window. Betty
was standing alone on the terrace ; the
moonlight softened and refined her extraordinary
loveliness ; Stanmere stopped short,
and expressed his admiration by a whistle.

Lord Stanmere," cried Mrs Parkinson
from the end of the terrace on the left,
^' come here directly, and help me to keep
Mr Osbert in order."

Coming ! " said he, and with a profound
bow to Betty he trotted away.

Miss Bond had carried off Mr Deane,
whom she had on that very day declared
by letter to be the most interesting man
that she had ever seen, so clever, so unlike
the general run of young men in Society.
Something to the same effect she had already
hinted to the man himself. Indeed
it must be confessed that she was given to
telling the man of the moment, even if he
were a young man in Society, that he was
so different from other young men. It was
easily said, and it had an extraordinary
effect upon her popularity. Fabian was
very happy. It was a delightful change
from the intolerant and beef-eating farmer
to moonlight and good manners. He liked
people who saw at a glance that he was not
like other people. It was clear that Miss
Bond thought him interesting and it
seemed to him that there must be something
great in a girl, who had seen so many
people in more than two or three seasons,

and who was yet so ready for new ideas,
so quick to feel interest in any one who was
interesting. " Ha ! isn't she like Gretchen 1 "
he cried looking back to the terrace, where
Betty was standing with the moonlight soft
about her.

• *' Who is to be Faust ? " asked his companion
quickly — " ah 1 yes ; isn't that Mr
Hartland, who has just joined her ? "

Dick "? My sometime pupil ? If my
pupil be Faust, what in the name of all
that is terrible am IV

You must be the but no ! politeness
forbids me to say."

The same power forbids me to compare
you with Martha."

Miss Bond had a pleasant laugh ; and
she laughed pleasantly, as she said " You
are much too literary." After a pause she
added, " Do you think it will be Dick — Mr
Hartland, I suppose I ought to say 1 "

*' Do I think what will be Dick ? "

VOL. I. N

Miss Bond laughed again, but she only
answered by nodding her head three times
towards the cousins. '"' Let us go on a little,"
she said ; " old Martha is afraid of chills."

Betty stood motionless in the moonlight,
till Dick came to her. Then she
turned slowly, and walked by his side in
silence.

"Betty," he said suddenly, "you are
being very naughty." She answered nothing,
but sighed ; and Dick felt that it was
hard to scold her seriously. " Poor old Dodington!"
he said; "you are treating him
awfully badly. He's worn to a shadow."

At this she laughed, and her low laughter
was so pleasant that he could not help laughing
too. After all it was not unpleasant to
be privileged to scold this fascinating cousin.
Then she grew serious again, and laid her
hand trustfully in his arm.

Why should one marry anybody ? " she
asked.

«' Why indeed '? " asked Dick in return
and with some contempt. " However he
added in a moment, " you won't be long
without a husband'

Why not '? " she asked innocently ; but,
as Dick only gave a short laugh for answer,
she said presently, " I think you are the
strangest man I ever knew."

"Why?"

Don't you think it's funny of you
to be lecturing me about another young
man ? "

"Not at al," said Dick with decision;
if I haven't a right to tell you, when
you are behaving badly, I don't know who
has."

She laughed a little under her breath.
It is so hard to know what sort of man to
marry."

A girl should marry the man she loves,"
said Dick, as if it were the simplest thing
in the world.

Susan says that the nicest men don't
marry ; and that they won't take any notice
of us till we marry other people."

Bah ! " said Dick : " pleasant for the
other people ! It seems to me that Miss
Bond is not a good friend for you."

Susan's the nicest girl in the world,"
said Betty calmly ; " but she's awfully
clever ; she understands life."

The one plain question for you is
whether you like John Dodington enough."

How can I tell ? " asked she gently.
You know you once told me that I ouo-ht
to think of him ; and when I do think of
him, I think that I ain't fit to be a poor
man's wife."

A poor man ! "

'* Dick," she said, " you don't know
anything. His wife can't possibly have J

much to spend ; and she'll have to live ■
a great deal in the country. I do get
so bored in the country ! "



That's thinking of him. I suppose'
said Dick. "If you cared for him in the
right way, I suppose you would be willing
to live anywhere with him." He
spoke with less than his usual certainty.

'' Not anywhere," she said ; — " not in
the Regent's Park for instance."

You don't care for him," said Dick,
as if he would put an end to the matter.

But I do care for him," she said ;
only — only I am so afraid he wouldn't
be amusing."

Dick gave a short contemptuous laugh.
*' If you feel like that," he said, " don't
marry him."

Miss Langdon stopped, and stood still
with her hand still resins on his arm.
That's your advice — really and truly ? "
she asked softly.

Yes," he answered ; " it's kinder to
him to let him alone, and to let him
know the worst." He was sorry for the

poor youth, and yet half contemptuous of
him for allowing himself to be brought to
such a woful state by one of these pretty
creatures. These pretty creatures seemed to
him like birds of gay plumage in the sun,
as simply eager for admiration, almost
as helpless. He felt a strong impulse
to take exclusive charge of this sweet
child, and to vanquish Miss Bond, whom
he regarded at the moment as the personification
of evil influence. He would
be his cousin's a:ood anselm : till on some
future day he could find for her some
husband, whom she could both love and
respect, and who would be strong enough
to rule her through her respect and love.
She was still standing by his side in
silence, as if she awaited further instruction.
He looked down on her with unusual
tenderness ; and her eyes raised to his in
the shadows seemed very innocent and
pathetic.

"I always like to do what you wish'
she said softly.

He was still looking at her ; and he
forgot to speak for a minute. He felt
sure that he had given her the best advice ;
it was certain that she didn't care enough
for Torinp^ton. He beo^an to think that
she must have suffered much from her
doubts, and from her swain's attentions.
It mio^ht almost be said that Torino-ton had
persecuted the poor child. " Poor Betty ! "
he said in a low voice, and he laid his
hand on hers in a protecting manner ;

Poor ah Fabian I Miss Bond ! where

did you spring from V

I wonder you didn't see us coming,"
said Susan. " Mr Deane has been doing:
Mephistopheles for my amusement ; it's
capital."

CHAPTER XY.

Dick was out of doors next day before
any of the guests were stirring. He had
something pleasant to say to Mrs Amiens,
the wife of his old friend, the cobbler ;
and, as he stepped across the park and
met the fresh beauty of the morning,
he felt that he was giving himself a
treat. He ran across the short grass,
because he was too happy to walk, and
vaulted the gate for very lightness of
heart. Close to this gate lies the village
the least formal of villages. Cottages
are scattered along the country road ;
and even at the very centre of the price,
where the Old Bear Inn stands with brood

elbow-room at the crossing of the ways,
with its venerable sign planted far before
it, — even there the fields push in
between the houses, and the hens walk
out into the dust, which is stirred by
few wheels between sunrise and sundown.
The village of Glaring has a comfortable
air. Here and there is a small house
of red brick with a warm little yard beside
it and a lean-to for the corn ; and
in one place an old wooden barn stands
with one corner in the street, and an air
of sublime indifference and repose. Besides,
though scarcely two of the labourers'
cottages are alike, they are all
alike in one point. They are all weather-tight
and wholesome, for they had belonged
for generations to the generous
people of Glaring Park ; and to see that
they were kept in perfect repair had been
regarded as one of her chief duties by
the good little Lady Bountiful, who had

gone up and down for years past with
kindness in her heart, and a passion for
order. Very little business was transacted
in this model village ; for the thriving
town of Kedgate with its politics and its
paper was less than two miles distant ;
and Eedgate was ever eager to provide
the country round with its own beef and
mutton, with London soap and candles,
even with old furniture for the ladies
and old English china, and the very last
novelty in aerated waters.

Even Nicholas Emmens, who made
and mended the iron-bound boots of the
labourers, and now and then did a piece
of neater work for a farmer's wife, or a
servant-girl at the House, would have found
time heavy on his hands but for his interest
in social matters and in his patch of garden.
Dick found the cobbler sitting in his low
window for the sake of lio^ht, and stitching
grimly. Nicholas was a little hurt by the

young squire's delay in visiting him ; he
was too ready to see neglect in those who
might think themselves his superiors on
account of the accident of birth ; there was
much defiance in this silent man. He
bowed to his visitor without speaking, and
he did not lay aside the boot, which he was
patching.

Dick greeted his friend without embarrassment,
and asked after his health, and
his children, and his wife. *rand I want
to see Mrs Emmens," he said ; ^' where is
she ? Is she busy '? "

Ain't she always busy '? '^ asked her pale
husband with his repressed smile.

She's a thundering good woman," said
Dick ; '^ and you ought to be grateful for
her."

You needn't fear to say that she is
a good woman," said the other slowly.
"Perhaps there ain't many of your fine
ladies that would work, as she works ; with

-J

the house ; and the cooking ; and all the
children ; and she always cheerful, and
good-tempered ; and clean, and neat."

She's all that," said the young squire ;
where is she ? "

Mr Emmens did not move, but he lifted
up a voice, which was not very melodious,
and called, *' Caroline ! Caroline ! "

Mrs Emmens came from the other little
room at the back ; and as the door, through
which she came, gave a glimpse of wooden
tubs, it was likely that this was to be a
washing-day. She came in rubbing her
hand on her coarse apron, and smiling at
the sight of young Mr Hartland, which, as
she sometimes said, did her a deal more
good than the parson any day, though the
parson was a civil well-meaning gentleman
enough. Dick shook her warmly by the
hand, and asked after all the children byname
— a feat which filled their mother
with admiration of his cleverness. Then

he complimented her on the wonderful
neatness of the room, in which he could
but just stand upright ; on the cleanliness
of the red brick floor with its loose piece
of coarse drugget ; on the polish of the old
deal dresser, whereon the crockery was
arranged in nice order.

"And now show me the garden," he
said, " and let me see if your husband
keeps it as he used to."

That he does," said she ; and she looked
proudly at Nicholas, who would look as if
he did not hear their idle talk.

Do you think I might make your husband
a present ? " asked Dick, as he stood
bv Mrs Emmens, and looked with admiration
at the little piece of earth, which seemed
to have been cultivated inch by inch.

She did not answer for a minute or two.
In spite of her great reverence for her husband,
she had her full share of that sense
of responsibility for him, which all good

women of her class feel for their lords.
The belief in the weakness of man had
been born in her ; and after many years
of married life she was still surprised at
her husband's steadiness, and gave thanks
daily that he was not like other women's
husbands. She was dimly conscious of a
revolutionary element in him, which might
rouse him some day to fierce rebellion
against their narrow life. In a cramped
life the woman is almost always safer and
better than the man ; she acquires more
easily a love of routine for its own sake ;
in most cases she has less imagination.
Mrs Emmens was duly cautious ; she was
distrustful of gifts for her husband, whoever
the giver.

I have learned a good deal from
your husband in various ways," said
Dick.

'' Learned from him ! Have you now ? "
asked Mrs Emmens. " Well, I don't wonder

at it. There's a many might learn from
him in my opinion."

"Well," said Dick, "I have seen a lot
of what they call spade-labour ; but I have
never seen a little bit of this old world
kept so beautifully as your husband keeps
this ; and I mean to make him a free present
of it."

The woman looked up and down, and
laid her hand on the stuff bosom of her
gown as if her breath were failing. " And
pay no rent ! " she said with a gasp. It
was hard to conceive such a position. It
seemed as if there must be something
dangerous, or wrong about it. She was
shocked. " Here, come along, and speak
to him," she said. '

*' Don't look as if you were dragging me
before a magistrate," said Dick, as she led
him back through the wash - house ; *' I
don't mean any harm."

"Now you tell him," said the woman,

and she moved a little to one side ; lie
put the corner of her apron in her mouth
and bit it hard, that she might resist the
temptation to speak.

'* I've been telling your wife," said Dick,
"that I want to make you a present of
your cottage and garden."

Nicholas put down his boot. There was a
faint flush in his pale cheek : otherwise he
showed no extraordinary emotion. Naturally
his first attitude was defensive. " And
what am I to do for this 1 " he asked.

Nothing," said Dick with a little impatience
in his tone ; " T want to give it you,
because I please — and because you take
such care of that garden, that you ought
to have it."

And it won't bind me in any way ? "

"No."

"Not to go round canvassing among the
working men, and such like — at election
times 1 "

DICKS WAXDEPJXG. 2 09

Do you think I'd bribe you 'i "

You must excuse me, sir," said Nicholas
Emmens ; " but it does seem unaccountable
; and politics does do strange things
with you gentlemen ; and — but there — I've
never thought ill of you ; and if you mean
this, and if you abide by your meaning,
why, I "

He stopped short in his speech, and Dick
saw that he was shaking.

There's nothing simpler in the world,"
said Dick, who felt bound to say something ;
you see you are different to all my other
cottage tenants, because they are all labourers
; so there will be no jealousy. As for
the thing, it isn't worth thanking me for ;
it's a mere nothing to me. So it's all
settled — and good - bye." He took the
man's hand, which was still trembling.
Nicholas was looking away through the
back-room and the low doorway to where

this little piece of bountiful earth lay warm
VOL. I. o

in sunlight. " I can't thank you," he said
presently. "I'm just hungry for it. I'm
just hungry to call it mine."

Mrs Emmens had taken the corner of her
rough apron from her mouth and applied
it furtively to her eyes. " God bless you,
sir," she said.

Dick was ashamed of so much gratitude.
He pressed her hand, which was roughened
by much work. " Good-bye," he said hurriedly
; " good-bye, Nicholas ; I'm glad it's
settled ; " and he escaped into the road.
As he hurried home, his mind was full of
the good woman whom he had left. He
recalled her look, Ashen he told her of his
intention, a look almost of horror. He
could still see her standing there in her
stuff gown which stood out all round from
the pleats about her waist, with her hair
almost unnaturally smooth, with her mouth
opened wide with wonder. " It's better
to be good than pretty," cried Dick aloud ;

and then he laughed ; and then he thought
of his cousin Betty, and laughed again.

As Dick stepped lightly across the park,
he was presently aware of a stolid figure
bearing down upon him, and then of a big
voice hailing him in a lofty but friendly
manner. He recognised the form as that
of Mr Kirby, and the manner was the same
as that with which this prominent politician
was wont to cry " Question, question ! " in
the House of Commons.

Mr Kirby did not hurry ; and yet, Ashen
he joined his young friend he was red in
the face, and he took the bier cio;ar from his
lips and breathed heavily once or twice, before
he spoke. When he did speak, he lost
no time in coming to the point. " When
are you going to join us in the House ? "
he asked and laid a large hand kindly on
his young kinsman's shoulder.

There's plenty of time to think of that,"
said Dick after a minute.

You can't begin too early," said Mr
Kirby, giving the shoulder, which he held,
a slight shake for emphasis : " the sooner
you begin to learn the game, the better'

What does one learn ? " As the politician
was not ready with an immediate
answer, Dick laughed and added — " If you
step down to the village, and ask Nicholas
Emmens, he'll tell you that one learns to
say what one don't think, and to vote as
one's bid."

"And who the blank is Nicholas —
what ? "

Emmens. Don't you know Nicholas
Emmens '? You shall. He's a wonderful
clever fellow ; he's the village cobbler ; he's
a tremendous politician. He ought to be
in the House, if you like."

"Never mind Mr — what's his name?
Hemmings. You are quite right to
cultivate that sort of people. But just
now I want to talk about you. Of

course you mean to go into Parliament,
and "

I don't know that," said Dick. " Isn't
it getting to be rather a bear-garden ? "

And," continued Mr Kirby, paying no
attention to the interruption, — " it's a game
that should be learned young, like other
games. You've got to keep the game
going. The other side send the ball over,
and you put it back in the most awkward

corner."

The politician was rather pleased with
this illustration ; he put his cigar back in
his mouth, while he paused to consider it.

That's doing your duty to your country,
is it '? " asked Dick innocently.

That's the thing to do," said Mr Kirby
slowly.

"But suppose," said Dick, "you know
that the other side are rio;ht ? "

"They never are right," said Mr Kirby
with a wink and a chuckle. He turned

towards the house, and the young squire
walked by his side.

'' Do you believe in manhood suffrage ? "
asked Dick presently.

Eh ? What ? " asked the politician,
who did not often attend to the questions
of outsiders ; perhaps he tacitly expected
previous notice. '*' Eh ? what ? " he asked ;
*' manhood suffrage '? eh 1 Oh, yes, that's
all right. The bulk of them will vote the
right way."

You mean they'll vote your way," said
Dick. FindiDo^ that this remark was honored,
he added, '' Don't you think that
there are too many voters already who
don't care the chuck of a copper which way
they vote ? Ain't these indifferent voters
the chief cause of bribery — the puppets of
the wire-pullers ? "

Our machinery is all right," said
the older man ; " I've been looking into
that myself. We shall be ready to work

the machine in every village in England."


Dick whistled doubtfully. 'well," he
said after a minute, '' I don't think I believe
that all men are equal ; or that all men
have a right to vote ; or that all men
are anything. Most men are exceptions, I
think. I wouldn't give a man a vote, until
I knew he was eager to have it, and not to
have it to sell."

So far as I follow you, my dear boy,"
said the politician pettishly, "you seem to
be talking the dam'dest doctrinaire nonsense."


Not a bit," said Dick stoutly ; " it's all
this talk about Liberty and Equality that's
doctrinaire — at least if I know what the
word means. This divine right to vote,
and to sell your vote for a go of gin, seems
to me frothy French stuff. I've tried to
believe in it, but I can't."

*' Just you listen to me," said Mr Kirby

stopping and again grasping his young
friend's shoulder. " I'll say this to you. Of
course I couldn't say it from my place in
the House ; but I'll say it to you. The
thing has got to come ; and if any young
fellow sets himself against it, it'll do for
him. Manhood suffrage has got to come."

"So has death," said Dick gaily; "but
that's no reason why you should help it
on."

Mr Kirby regarded his young kinsman
with a frown. Then he resumed his progress
with due gravity. He felt that his
momentous confidence had been received
with improper flippancy. Dick on his side
felt contrite ; he told himself that it was
really very good of this great man to take
such pains with his political education.
Dick was rather pleased to think that Mr
Kirby, who now wore a very thoughtful
air, was pondering deeply the best means
by which his self-willed kinsman might be

brought into the proper frame of mind.
He did not know that the politician's
thoughts had already wandered from him ;
that he was thinking of his own digestion,
and considering; the chances of roast chicken
for luncheon.

There was a roast chicken for luncheon,
and Mr Kirby was fortunate enough to
secure his favourite wing. The frown had
vanished from his brow, as he followed his
hostess from the dining-room to the hall.

In the hall Mrs Hartiand paused. " Did
you speak to Dick ? " she asked ; she was
careful not to seem anxious.

Speak to Dick ? " said he ; " eh ? oh !
yes. I spoke to the boy. I pumped him ;
pumped him dry. He told me everything.
Well make something of the lad, my dear
lady. He's very young ; but we'll make
something of him." Pie chuckled ac^ain,
and coughed. He thought it a most comfortable
house to stay in.

Chapter XVI.

Sophie Shetland could spare but a moment
for talk about her boy. She felt that
she had a thousand things to do before the
evening ; for in the evening there was to
be the great ball, and neighbours were
coming from all that side of the country.
It was a time of confusion in the old house.
Already the drawing-rooms and the library
had been cleared for action. Now, when
luncheon was over, the dining-room table
was being removed in fragments, to make
way for many little supper tables. Mrs
Hartland felt that she must keep an eye on
everything. She was happy when busy,
and happy too because for a time she could

dismiss her guests from her mind with a
clear conscience. She had refused all offers
of help and was at last left alone. Lady
Marlborough had sent her lord to drive ]\Trs
Hurtee Parkinson in the phaeton ; and she
herself with great good-humour had gone
for a walk with that admirable little housewife,
but silent companion, Mrs Kirby.
The young people had drifted out of the
disturbed house to the shade of the ibis:
trees on the lawn ; and Mrs Meryon after
recalling for her daughter's sake some of
her old acquaintance, who would have enjoyed
a dance so much, had they only been
alive, had gone to her own room with the
intention of writing letters, and was there
sleeping like a child. So Mrs Hartland,
when she had ordered Ilervie Langdon to
keep Mr Kirby in the billiard-room, was
happy in a clear ground, and gave herself
to the task of minute supervision.

Betty and Ossie exhibited an infantine

delight in the state of affairs. The disorder
inspired them ; and when the general
irregularity culminated in a dinner in the
servants' hall, their spirits were ready to
overleap) all bounds. Moreover space had
been found in the old house for a few more
men, who would be useful at the ball ; and
among these was Harold Dolamore, who
had a talent for amusing this young brother
and sister.

The ball was a complete success. Mrs
Hartland was condemned to hear a thousand
praises of the beauty of the rooms,
the excellence of the floor, the success of
all her arrangements. They praised her
for everything, including the cloudless sky
and the soft moonlight ; she almost felt
herself responsible for the lavish beauty of
the night. Indeed, as young people heated
with the joy of dancing strolled through
the open windows on to the wide terrace,
it was but natural that they should feel a

desire to express gratitude. It is likely
that their jokes were trivial enough, but
lovely was the low laughter in the moonlight
; and some of many mean thoughts
and base ambitions were rebuked by the
still beauty of the world, or forgotten in the
wonder of the time. There were young
men and maidens, and the night was very
fair. Hervie Langdon standing in one of
the windows with his hands in his pockets,
found himself thinking; such thoughts as

Q CD

these, and burst out laughing at himself.
Thus effectually aroused, he looked about
for his own boy and girl ; and while he was
looking for them, he ran against Dick.
Dick told him that he had not seen Betty
for at least an hour, and that Ossie was
behaving very badly. " He hasn't danced
with a single neighbour," he said ; " he's
been trotting about all the evening; with
Miss Bond."
Mr Langdon put out a hand to detain

his nephew. '' That's delicious," he said ;
'that's Betty's doing. She told me this
morning with the most delightful gravity,
that at her request Susan Bond, who it
seems is a wonderfully clever girl, had promised
to take Ossie in hand, and to keep him
out of mischief. Now the joke is that that
girl is very fond — what they call deeply
attached — to my ridiculous boy."

'attached to Ossie ! It's impossible."

Impossible, but true," said Hervie Lang-don.


Dick could not stop to argue the matter.
He had been devoting himself without a
moment's rest to his duties as host; and
he was now in search of a distinguished
dowager, who would never forgive the
House of Glaring, if she did not have an
early chance at the supper.

AVhen the ball was drawings to an end,
when carriages were rolling away, when
the pale light of dawn was creeping across

the lawn and shining faintly blue on the
conservatory at the eastern end of the long
drawing-room, Dick, who at last found
time to rest from his labours, paused for a
minute among the hothouse flowers, and
looked into the room, where a few couples
were still dancing zealously. Miss Betty
was floating round in the arms of John
Dodington, who danced well. When they
stopped, he stood looking down at her with
his dark eyes ; but she looked only on the
floor, smiling a little, and opening and
shutting her fan. Dick felt sorry for Dodington.
As he turned away, he saw that
Stanmere and Dolamore where standing on
the other side of a young palm-tree, and
were also staring into the room.

'ris it to be a match ? " asked Stanmere.

I wonder," said Dolamore.

I hope so' said the first speaker ; " the
dear old chap is awfully far gone."

The lady is very apt to find people

damned bores' said Dolamore, in his
smooth careful manner ; " and poor dear

old Tory ."

Dick moved away ; there was something
in Dolamore's tone, which vexed him. He
knew that it was absurd to be vexed by
this man, who was without doubt a good
enough fellow in his way. As for the
chances of John Dodington and Betty Lang-don
being happy together, he knew that he
need not trouble himself about that matter.
She could venture to be kind to the poor
youth on this evening, because her mind was
at last made up. What could be more natural
? Probably she had told him that it
could never be. Certainly he looked dismal
enough. And now the band, of which the
thriving town of Kedgate was justly proud,
could play no more. The last guests were
driven away in the morning light. The ladies
who were at home went blinking up-stairs ;
and silence and sleep settled on the house.

The morning; after the ball was sacred to
repose. Breakfast went up to some people
on little trays ; others came down to breakfast
at irregular intervals. They seemed
to take but a languid interest in each other ;
and they scarcely noticed the absence of
their hostess and their young host. Mrs
Hartland was engaged in confidential talk
with the housekeeper ; and Dick was
riding about the property with his agent.
It was Saturday, and on that evening
the festivities would be finished. A dinner
was to be given to the labourers in a laro;e
tent, which was being erected in the park ;
after the dinner the park was to be open
to the village ; the Kedgate band would
return after a day's rest ; there would be
dancing on the green, lights in the trees,
and fireworks in the distance. Most of the
young people, who were staying in the
house, had appeared before noon ; and as
the day was hot, they gathered by degrees

VOL. I. P

under the biggest tree on the lawn. Miss
Langdon seemed sleepy, but contented.
She sat in the most comfortable of the
straw - chairs, where she could listen at
her ease, and smile without fatigue. She
exerted herself so far as to keep in idlest
motion a large straw - fan ; and, as she
fanned herself, she allowed her eyes to
travel far away beyond the green turf,
which sloped downward to the climbing
wood ; and beyond the wood to the valley,
which lying far below and stretching
away into the distance, was crossed by
little lines of hedgerow, rich with full
rounded trees, and full that day, as a long
shallow vase with wine, of unaccustomed
sunlight. On her right was the wide park
with its soft hollows and long level spaces,
its great trees here and there, its cricket-ground
in the distance, and its coverts
beyond the cricket - ground. On her left
was the smooth - shaven lawn, and the

famous avenue, which led to the chief
entrance.

Betty did not talk about scenery ; but
though she had never troubled herself with
the comparison, it may be said for her that
she preferred the beautiful to the sublime.
A landscape full of warmth and richness
and repose was very pleasant to her. Her
eyes were half closed ; the fatigues of the
evening before had only given a new charm to
her beauty ; sitting in the shade she looked
out lazily and basked in the broad sunlight.
Her pleasure was not diminished by the fact
that Stanmere and Fabian Deane were both
looking at her. The latter was smoking
cigarettes fiercely, and flying through all
ages of literature to snatch fantastic comparisons
for this lovely creature. Though
he reclined in his chair, a model of repose,
his mind was abnormally busy with this
fascinating task, and so absorbed, that he
heeded not a word of the talk of Stanmere,

who in a mood of gravity due to much
dancing was giving him his views of life.

Ossie was sublimely happy. Lying at
the little slippers of Mrs Hurtee Parkinson
he watched the eyes of that lively lady ;
and Miss Susan Bond watched him. Mrs
Parkinson threw him fragments of talk,
while her large eyes now rested on him,
now wandered to other youth. However
agreeable the man, with whom she was talking,
she almost always had the air of expecting
another man. She only half-listened
to compliments, but rewarded them with
quick glances. If her ear was attentive to
the coming man, she had a peculiar light
laugh, which was fascinating in itself, and
was an answer good enough for the man at
her elbow. It was only when she had a
definite part to play, — when there was some
persons whom for social reasons it was
necessary to charm, — that Nellie Parkinson
was able to concentrate her attention. For

the most part she felt herself the pretty
centre of men's eyes ; and she plumed herself
with birdlike movements of the head,
and with restless glances which took toll
from the spectators, as the organ-grinder
collects the smallest change. She liked
Ossie ; and he was so conveniently boyish
that she could treat him as a petted child
without fear of the censorious. Miss Bond,
who was clever, watched the two pretty
creatures as a collector with a card-board
box and camphor in his pocket might smile
on two light butterflies hovering and pausing
in the sun. If she wanted to secure
one of the butterflies, she had good store of
practical proverbs ; she knew that everything
comes to those who know how to
wait. She amused Mr Osbert Langdon
without eflbrt ; she took great pains never
to bore him.

If the group under the wide shade was a
picture of repose ; if the sole disquiet was

in the wandering eyes of Mrs Hurtee Parkinson
; yet there was one who came and
went unrestiDo:, one who was restlessness
from head to heel. John Dodington was
in a pitiful state. He was an honest
youth ; yet he was acting, and knew it.
He was proud ; yet he was laying himself
open to the pity of all these people. It was
but too likely that his own servant, when
he brought his hot water in the morning
offered him pity therewith ; he was always
a considerate master. He was naturally
reserved ; yet he could not tear himself
from these young folk under the tree. He
came to them assail and ao;ain ; he talked
twice as much as usual ; he was strangely
epigrammatic, and exhibited an uneasy
gaiety ; he made cynical allusions to
women, and then blushed ; he said he was
going and went not ; he forbore to look at
or to speak to Miss Langdon, as if by this
obvious forbearance he would prove to

others, even to himself, his complete indifference.
He congratulated himself on
his success ; but not for one moment did
he believe in it. He declared that he had
letters to write ; he repeated the declaration
three or four times ; nobody asked him to
stay. When he had gone, he reappeared
again to complain that the post had gone ;
one would have thought that on those unwritten
letters depended the happiness of
his life. Indeed he tried to smile in a
knowing manner ; but nobody asked him
to whom he was so eager to write. He
brought a paper from the house, and from
it he read passages which interested nobody;
he had never done such a thing in his life
before. At last he undertook to show his
friends a gymnastic feat ; he twisted himself
into a position, which he suddenly felt
to be ludicrous ; he untwisted himself cold
and nerveless ; he tried to smile when Mrs
Hurtee Parkinson broke into silvery laughter.

'' Tory is going mad," whispered Ossie to
the lady. " Isn't it the dog-days ? " asked
she. Miss Bond smiled at Ossie, as if she
would claim his sympathy for the unfortunate
youth. Certainly the proud and
dignified John Dodington was strangely
unlike himself. Pretending to be absorbed
in his paper he slowly sank into the depths
of silent gloom.

That evening Dick Hartland was standing
at the end of the Terrace. The park
before him was full of village people. Half
screened by some great dark trees on the
right was the tent, where the labourers had
dined, and had listened to the young
squire's few but friendly words. In the
distance by the cricket - ground, people
were dancing ; lights were shining and
moving ; and the music came to the house
with all the added beauty of the cool evening
air. Dick was thinking that it was a
great thing to be able to do something for

all these people. He hoped and thought
that he would never be careless of their welfare.
What could be easier, he asked himself,
than to do a good turn to one's friends ?
As he was thinking such thoughts, he felt a
light touch on his arm ; and turning he saw
his mother. He put his arm round her.

They seem happy, don't they 1 " he said.

Yes," she answered with a restrained
excitement in her voice, which surprised
him ; " but I have some news for you."
Then she paused.

What is it ? "

I think it is good news. I think you
will be pleased. I hope you will be pleased,
my dear, dear boy." She looked up at him,
and Dick could see in her upturned face
an unusual tenderness, which almost frightened
him. *' It is about Betty," she said.

What about Betty ? "

"She has promised to marry Mr Dodington."


Impossible ! It can't be."

"He has just told me. I do hope that
it is for the best. I think it a very good
thing that Betty should marry a really
nice man. He is nice, isn't he, Dick 1 "

He's a first-rate fellow."

'' Dear Dick ! " she said leaning a little
nearer to him. " I hope you are glad. I
have sometimes thought — it has crossed my
mind that you might like Betty — that she
and you might "

"I! What! Betty and I!" Dick
laughed, and his mother felt relief.

I shouldn't have liked it," she said ; " I
don't think it would have been for your
happiness ; but I have fancied sometimes
that Betty — I do think that marriage will
improve Betty wonderfully."

Dick laughed again, but not heartily.
^'AVomen are certainly strange creatures,"
he said ; " not you mother — but the rest."

CHAPTER XVII.

Dick awoke next morning with mind perplexed.
He could not understand Betty's
conduct. He hated the suspicion that she
had not been wholly honest, when she spoke
to him of Torin2[ton so short a time ao-o.
Since nothing was to be gained by wondering,
he determined to trouble himself no
more, but to hope for the best. Surely
there were good grounds for hope. He
knew that prominent among his mother's
theories was that of the wonderful effect
of marriage on the female character. He
thought that his mother ought to be an
authority on this subject. He was inclined
to agree with her opinion, that Betty needed

some person of strong character to take care
of her ; though he was hardly certain yet
that John Dodington was such a person.
Though he liked Dodington, he had known
him but a short time. He knew that he
was a good fellow ; that he was regarded
by other good fellows like his friend Stan-mere
as comically scrupulous. But yet he
could not feel sure that among his friend's
merits was that strength of character, which
in this case was the thing most important.
He hoped that his mother might be right in
this opinion also ; but it occurred to him as
possible that women were apt to attribute
great force of character to any man, who
had a fine profile and a reserved manner.
One thing was clear ; there was no good
in crying over spilt milk. When Dick was
vigorously brushing his hair, hope was
plainly in the ascendant : when he entered
the dining-room, arrayed as befits a prosperous
young Briton on Sunday morning,

his mother looking up from the teapot felt
a quick throb of relief; he seemed in the
highest spirits. As he came to kiss her,
she thought that he looked more like his
father than he had ever looked before.
Perhaps Mrs Meryon, who enjoyed a temperament
quickly and subtly sympathetic,
recognised the thought in her daughter's
mind. Certain it is that amid the frivolous
talk, and above the home-made sausage
which she had but just secured, she directed
at Sophie Hartland a gentle sigh, which
was eloquent of the uncertainties of life.
Dick intercepted the soft glance, which
accompanied the sigh ; " how are you,
Granny ? " he asked with the careless confidence
of youth. He wrung the hand of
John Dodington, who was trying not to
look too absurdly happy. He looked for
Betty ; but that inscrutable young person
had not appeared. About the other women
there was an air of suppressed excitement,

and of mystery, for which there was not
the slightest reason. The younger men
had an appearance somewhat sheepish ;
while Hervie Langdon regarded the youth,
who had been so strangely eager to become
his son-in-law, with frank but not unkindly
curiosity. " How extremely funny it allis,"
he observed in a whisper to his sister
Lady Raeborough.

'' Really Hervie," she answered, " I do
think that for this occasion only you
might take a serious view of something.
Remember that you will have to arrange
about settlements."

Mr Land-don laid down his knife and
fork, and groaned aloud. He was serious
enough now. " Shall I have to see my
lawyer 1 " he asked ; he had not thought of
this repulsive necessity; he looked across the
table at John Dodington with active hostility;
then he groaned again, and then he laughed.

Dick was restless in church. He felt that

he must have a talk with his cousin Betty,
and convince himself that this eno:ao:ement
was a good thing. In spite of himself his
thoughts returned again and again to this
subject. Moreover, his restlessness was increased
by the near neighbourhood of Mr
Kirby, who filled more than his share of the
seat, and who took part in the service with
unnecessary distinctness and emphasis. The
smug Sunday manner of the politician was
particularly irritating to Dick that morning ;
because he could not help contrasting it
with the mood of relaxation and the ponderous
worldliness, which had been displayed
by the same gentleman on the previous
evening. When the sports on the green
were finished, and the park was empty once
more, the men staying in the house had
repaired to the smoking-room ; and there the
statesman had so far condescended from his
sphere as to entertain his young friends
with equivocal experiences of his youth,

scraps of worldly wisdom which he owed to
the imperfect recollection of many French
novels imperfectly understood, and old worn-out
stories whose only claim to distinction
was that they could not appear in the
society of ladies. Such was John Wilding
Kirby's idea of the way to entertain
young men. He was proud of his skill in
adapting himself to any society. And yet
it may be doubted whether a single one of
his audience on that Saturday evening was
made happier by the playfulness of this
middle-aged gentleman, who was so excellent
a husband and father ; and Those wife
and daughter, sleeping the sleep of innocence
up-stairs, were haply dreaming of
him, seated on high in the House of Peers,
rewarded not too highly for all the virtues,
public and private.

Dick, who had small appetite for garbage,
was made uncomfortable by the close
proximity of so much Sabbath unction following

so closely on such a holiday mood ;
and presently this contrast put another
thought into his mind, which made him
more uncomfortable still. While he was
mentally accusing Mr Kirby of a sort of
dishonesty, it suddenly occurred to him
that perhaps he himself had not been quite
frank in his treatment of his mother. Wishing
to spare her as long as possible the
annoyance, which he foresaw, he had said
nothing to her of his intention of acquiring
the fee-simple of his real estate. He had
said to himself that there was no use in
troubling her, until she spoke to him on
the subject. In London he had wondered
why she did not question him about his
visits to the lawyers. Since they had been
in the country, he had expected every day
that she would make some allusion to the
making of a new settlement. It never
entered his head that the gentle little lady
had schooled herself to silence — that she

VOL. I. Q

had determined that nothing should induce
her to thrust her advice on her boy, unless
he cared to ask for it. So with constraint
on her tongue she had busied herself withall
the preparations for this country-house
party. With a lurking fear in her heart
she had sought comfort in repeating to herself
that of course Dick would settle the
property on his future son — that son whom
she had already sometimes pictured as
learning at his old grandmothers knee —
as all Hartlands had settled the land, since
there were Hartlands to settle anything.

Now, when it had once occurred to Dick
that his conduct was not absolutely frank,
he could scarcely sit still in his place in the
Parish Church. He had no doubt that he
had left his mother under a wrong impression
; and though he had been silent for
her sake, yet his passion for honesty was
straightway on fire for the destruction of all
delusions. He now felt certain that it was

always better to proclaim his intentions
from the house-top. He drew himself as far
as possible from Mr Kirby ; he fidgeted
during the sermon of the excellent vicar,
who was a high-churchman of the precise
shade most agreeable to Mrs Hartland; he
made up his mind to speak to his mother at
the very earliest opportunity. This opportunity
he did not find at once. Mrs Hart-land
walked home with Lady Marlborough ;
and Dick stopped to talk with Mrs Emmens,
who came to church, though her husband
the cobbler did not. When he reached
home, Dick ran up-stairs hoping to find his
mother alone in her room ; but on the stairs
he met his cousin Betty face to face, and
his thoughts flew instantly to her engagement.
This was another matter, which it
was necessary to clear up. He could not
rest without being sure of Betty's happiness.
He looked at her with open questioning
eyes.

*' I hope you are contented Dick," she

said.

'* I hope you'll be happy," said he looking
up at her, for she stood a step or two
above him. He was thinking how lovely
she looked ; and then he wondered if she
did not seem too placid.

"Ain't you going to be kinder than
that 1 " she asked ; " I did it to please
you."

"What' cried Dick; "Betty! you
mustn't say that." All his passion for
exact truth was up in arms in a moment.
You mustn't say that, Betty. I begged
you not to marry him ; and you said you
wouldn't."

Dick ! "

It's true, Betty ; I remember perfectly.
You said you were afraid it would be a
bore ; and I "

He stopped abruptly, for he saw that her
great eyes were tearful.

Oh dear ! " she sighed.

Forgive me, Betty," he said ; " I'm a
fool. I am awfully glad for his sake ; and
I am sure you are going to marry as good a
husband as could be found anywhere."

I thought you would be pleased," she
said reproachfully. " You were always telling
me that I was behaving badly, and "

*eyes, yes. It was bad to keep him in
doubt. I said that you ought to say yes or
no — that you ought to say No, unless you
were sure you cared about him enough."

Betty was looking dreamy ; it was doubtful
if she followed him. " And now I have
behaved well," she said, " and you scold me
again."

But, Betty, you ain't logical ; don't you

see

I see that you are very unkind." Her
voice trembled a little, and the tears seemed
ready to fall. It was impossible to stand
lecturing this lovely girl on a staircase.

No, no," cried Dick, eager to console, " of
course you ain't logical; why should you beechen
there came a pause, during which the
cousins looked at each other, and Dick
said to himself that this sort of thing was
what people meant, when they said that
women were not logical. He had heard
the statement a thousand times ; he had
even uttered it himself with a knowing air ;
but he had never felt its real force before.
"You are a great deal better than logical,"
he said presently with an air of conviction
; " you are going to be happy with
the best fellow in the world, and to make
him awfully happy — tremendously happy."

Betty smiled softly at the tremendous
emphasis. She seemed in a truly April
mood.

"Nothing could be better," said Dick
with more emphasis; "and I wish you joy
with all my heart."

Thank you, Dick," she said, and she

held out her cheek like a child. Years had
passed since her cousin had kissed her, and
he blushed as he kissed her now. She certainly
was a sweet young creature. He
felt sure that she would make any man
happy.

They were still standing together, when
Mrs Hartland came down-stairs, and putting
her arm round Betty led her away with that
manner half protecting, half respectful, which
most women show to a girl who is going to
be married.

Dick looked after them for a minute with
affection and perplexity. Then he ran upstairs.


It was clear to him that the moment had
not come for disturbing this new happiness
of his mother. To-morrow the house would
be almost empty, and then he would find
a good opportunity for breaking to her his
intentions about the land. After all his
intention was merely to do nothing ; and he

trusted to his skill to put it in so clear a
light, that his mother would see directly
that he was only doing that which any
sensible man would do. To-morrow they
would laugh together at his scruples and
fears.

CHAPTER XVIII.

The first thing that surprised Dick Hart-land
on Monday morning was the early
appearance in his room of his cousin Osier
Langdon's hair was on end, and his eyes
were heavy with sleep ; but nevertheless
there he was, lightly but sufficiently attired
in a beautiful silken smoking-suit. He wore
moreover an air of solemnity, which taken
with the fact that he was out of bed at that
hour instantly aroused his cousin's curiosity.
Dick sat up in bed, rubbed his eyes, and
stared at Ossie, who subsided languidly into
the arm-chair and stared 'at Dick.

Well ? " said Dick cheerfully. As Ossie
only looked at him with a sweet gravity, he
added, " What is it \ "

*' Fm going away after breakfast," said
Ossie ; " and I don't know when I shall see
you again."

In a day or two, I should think," said
Dick.

Mr Langdon took no notice of this
suggestion. " I have not had a chance,"
he said, " of speaking to you about this
engagement."

Oh that's all right," cried Dick, who
felt a strong dislike to re-open the question ;
of course you like it ; Dodington's a friend
of yours, and a capital good fellow."

Of course I like it," assented Ossie seriously.
'' Tory is a dear old chap; but that's
not everything. I have been thinking about
it very seriously. I didn't sleep a wink last
night for thinking about our temperament
the Langdon temperament." Here his
cousin burst out laughing, and flung a
pillow at him ; but Ossie laid the missile
on one side, and only looked at the aggressor
with silent disapproval. " I came to

ask you for advice," tie continued after a
short pause ; " I do wish you would not
always treat me as a baby."

'' Go on," said his cousin.

I am convinced," said Ossie, " that marriage
— a prudent marriage — is the thing —
is what the Langdon temperament needs."

And the Langdon temperament is going
to try it."

I have made up my mind to turn over
a new leaf. I am tired of this carolina
after married women. I have made up my
mind to do no more of it. I "

Ossie ! It isn't you that's going to be
married, is it ? "

Mr Langdon coughed. " Not perhaps
immediately," he said.

Dick lay back in bed and abandoned
himself to laughter. When he was able to
speak, he said, '^ You are an infant ; and I
should forbid the banns."

Ossie rose with silent majesty; but, as he
rose, his scornful eye happened to rest on the

pillow, which lay on the floor ; he could not
resist the impulse ; he caught the pillow up ;
You old brute ! " he cried : he flung the
pillow with a fine swing at Dick's head, and
darted for his life through the open door.

Dick had slept later than usual, and when
he went down-stairs, he found that Stanmere
and Dodington were on the eve of departure
by the early train. They went back to the
dining-room with their young host, that they
might say good-bye to the ladies. Betty
looked up, as they came in ; "I thought
you were the hot toast," she said pouting.
She went on with her breakfast, and seemed
unaware that Dodington was standing by her
chair. John Dodington was decidedly uncomfortable.
He wished that she would come
to the front door with him, but did not like
to ask her. He was painfully conscious of
the presence of the butler by the sideboard.

Good-bye, my darling ! " he whispered
as he stooped to her ear.

Good-bye," she said not unkindly.

DICKS WANDERING. 253

I shall see you tomorrow in your own
home'' he murmured again.

She gave a little nod for answer.

*' Come on Tory' said Stanmere ; '^ we
shall be late ; good-bye Miss Langdon ; I'll
watch over him."

If I were John' said Lady Marlborough
when the two young men had gone and the
door was shut behind them, " I should
break it off by telegram."

Betty looked at her charming aunt, and
smiled before she answered. " He won't,"
was all she said.

Then followed one of those uncomfortable
mornings full of the bustle of departure.
Flies arrived at the back door, and
carriages came round to the front. At
luncheon of all the guests, who had made
the old house so gay, not one was left but
Mr Osbert Langdon. Ossie had gracefully
refused to go with his father and sister.
He had conducted Mrs Parkinson and Miss
Bond to a later train ; and he had returned

254 dick's wandering.

from the station smiling in a manner comically
like his father's at some delightful
private joke. At luncheon he talked with
light-hearted ease, and seemed not to care
whether anybody answered him ; and this
was lucky, for neither Mrs Hartland nor
her son was in a mood for conversation.

Sophie with her delicate feminine instinct
was conscious of coming explanations. She
looked even more calm and unruffled than
usual as she sat at the head of the table ;
but she was looking forward with eao^er
curiosity and anxious fear to the moment
when she would be left alone with her boy.

Dick was telling himself that after all
he had next to nothing' to tell her ; he was
repeating for the twentieth time that so
wise a woman as his mother could not fail
to see that he was going to do the right
thing — the thing which any sensible man
in his place would do. All this he had
been telling himself assail and af>:ain for
some time past; and yet he had not realised

how strong those doubts must be, which
required to be answered so often.

Luncheon was almost finished before
Ossie began to suspect that his cousin not
only did not answer him, but was not even
thinking of him. Now this was the sort of
thing which Ossie resented in Dick. He
had a rooted belief that Dick ouo;ht to bethinking
of him constantly. For a moment
he looked at him with pathetic reproach ;
then " ril astonish him presently," he said
to himself, and he smiled as he poured the
cream over his tart.

When Ossie had made an end of eating
and drinking, he embraced his aunt Sophie
with fervour and promised to write to her
frequently and to tell her everything.
Then, as the dog-cart was already at the
door, and his portmanteau in its place,
he put his arm round Dick in a confiding
manner and led him out of the house. When
he was in his seat and had taken the reins
from the groom, he seemed to remember

something, which might as well be said. He
stooped towards his cousin who was standing
by the wheel. " Oh — Dick — '' he said,
have you heard of the engagement ? "

*' What do you mean, you goose ? " said
Dick ; "I've heard of nothing else."

I mean the other eno^ao^ement."

The what 1 "

'* Mine." Having uttered this little word
in his sweetest tone, he instantly chirped to
his horse and drove quickly away.

Ossie ! Ossie, you idiot, come back ! "
shouted Dick, when he was able to speak ;
but Ossie only waved his whip in token of
farewell, and vanished behind the shrubbery.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD And SONS.

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of I I M Noise

823 ,

V.2

BY

JULIAN STUEGIS

AUTHOR OF

little comedies'

an accomplished gentleman '

john-dreams '

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXII

VOL. II.

II.

continued.)

Chapter XIX.

Dick did not trouble himself about this
cousin s startling intelligence. As soon as
lie could think of it, he dismissed it as an
impudent fiction. He laughed and promised
himself vengeance at their next
meeting ; and then his thoughts went back
again to his mother and to the subject of
their next talk. Surely this was the opportunity,
for which he had been wishing.
All the people had gone away, and his
mother was alone in the house. And yet,
when he had done lauo-hinor at Ossie's absurdity,

he still lingered before the front
door, while his face became more and more
grave ; and when at last he did go in, he
went no farther than the hall. He made
less noise than usual in taking his stick
from the stand ; and he lost no time incoming
out again and starting for a walk
by a path, which could not be seen from
his mother's window. He walked like one
who fulfils a duty; and all the way he kept
telling himself that his mother could not
possibly be grieved by his determination,
that she could not help seeing that he was
right. It was impossible that she should
make a fuss about so very small a matter.
He had no plan of parting with the property
— nor with any part of it, save Emmens'
tiny garden. He had no present intention
of trying any experiment, even the smallest,
with the land. His farms were held on
leases which would not expire for some
years ; his tenants were prosperous ; his

rents were paid without complaint ; he
had great faith in his agent ; and there
was no eye like his mother's for the condition
of the labourers' cottages. If he Averse
to go away for six months or a year — and
the thought had occurred to him once or
twice that possibly he might find it well
to go away for a time — the machine would
go on equally well without him. All that
he was going to do was to execute a formal
little deed, which by changing him from a
tenant in tail to a tenant in fee-simple
would make him a landowner indeed; which
would give him power to do with his land
at any time that which was for the best interest
of all who lived on it — himself, his farmers,
and his labourers. Dick had long ago
emphatically declared to himself that he
could not bear to limit his own freedom by
new settlements; that it would be unbearable
to see some day how a great benefit might be
done to his people, and to know that by his

own act lie tad made it impossible. Thus
like a generous young monarch, but newly-come
to his kingdom did Mr Hartland
think of the worthy country folk, among
whom he had lived as a child ; thus did he
regard them with care almost paternal, and
With a full sense of the responsibilities inseparable
from his high position.

When Dick was at home again, he
allowed himself no time for hesitation. He
ran upstairs and knocked at the door of his
mother's sitting-room. She was wrapped
in a soft tea-gown of nun-like simplicity;
and her son, as he came into the room,
thought with a sudden tenderness how
slight and delicate she looked. There was
a look of expectation, almost of fear, in her
eyes, as she looked up at him. For a moment
he was tempted to put off the words,
which — as he knew well in spite of all the
conclusive arguments which he had lavished
on himself — would cause her deep distress.

The next minute lie had made the necessary
effort, and begun to speak. He stood looking
out of the window, and he tried to tell
her of his next visit to his lawyer and of
the formal deed which he was going to
execute, as he had told her a thousand
times of some small plan for the morrow.
When he had finished, he still looked out
of the window, but he saw nothing ; he was
intent on listening, and it seemed strangely
long before he heard her words. When she
spoke, she spoke very quietly ; but there
was something in her tone, which sent a
shock to his heart.

'rare you going to sell the place?" she
asked.

"No, no," cried Dick wheeling round
from the window, " Fm not going to do
anything with the place ; everything is to
be as it is ; I only want to be able to do
what it may be right to do some day — to
keep the power."

To keep the power ! " she repeated bitterly.
Though she spoke bitterly, her first
great fear was gone. She was so far
relieved, that she could find further relief
in speech. The feeling of ill-usage, which
had hurt her so long, which had been
shown so seldom and never expressed save
in some slight hint or polite refusal to
interfere, found words at last — words which
half frightened her by their vehemence.
You have never considered me," she said.
'* Perhaps there is no reason why you should
consider me, or ask my advice, or even tell
me what you are planning ; but I did
think — I did hope that you would consider
the wishes of your father, who is dead.
He always looked forward — when you were
a baby, he looked forward to the time,
when you would resettle the land as every
Hartland had settled it before : and when
he was gone, — I tried to study, that I
might know what he wished ; and be able

to tell you ; and you never cared to ask ;
and now I have nothing to tell you except
that you are doing what he — what your
father "

But mother' said Dick, for something
stopped her speech, " mother, don't you see
that I am going to do nothing with the
place. I only want to keep myself free,
till I know better."

"And do you think that you will know
better than your father, and your grandfather,
and all who have gone before ? yes,
that's just what you do think ; you have
always thought that you knew best about
everything. It was the same at school ;
you made up your mind to leave ; you
thought that, mere child as you were, you
were a better judge than your mother, and
your uncle Hervie, and John Kirby, and
your tutor, and everybody ; you have
always been like that, always self-willed
and — I don't want to blame you ; I know

that people have always liked you and
flattered you, and made you think yourself

a great man and "

"No, mother," said Dick. He was
amazed and shocked. He could not bear
to hear her speak like this. He had always
admired her for her dignity and simplicity,
her self-control and calm. She had been
to him, long before he had thought about
it, his standard of perfect ladyhood, by
which he measured other women. Now
she seemed to him for the first time to
be speaking wildly ; he was shocked and
almost frightened. Once or twice there
flashed across him the uncomfortable idea,
with which Betty's engagement had inspired
him, that perhaps he did not understand
women. It was an idea by no means
pleasant to Dick ; for he was apt to congratulate
himself on understanding people
so easily. If one half of mankind were
really so hard to read, it might not be so

easy a matter after all to direct his course
through life.

Presently Mrs Hartland spoke again,
and spoke more quietly. '' You are going
to do nothing at present ? " she said with
her eyes turned from him.

Nothing whatever' he answered. " I
want everything to be exactly as it has
been; everything is going on capitally. I
do so hope, mother, that you will make no
difference ; that you will go on managing
everything which you have managed before
the house, and the cottages and everything."


'mrs Emmens, the cobbler's wife, said
something to me — something which I did
not understand — about your kindness "

'soh, I forgot," cried Dick; "I told
Nicholas Emmens that I would give him
his garden."

That you would give it to him ? "

Yes ; it's nothing you know ; and you

know what he's made of it ; it's wonderful ;
I wanted to give it him partly for that, and
partly to see what's the most that can possibly
be made with a spade out of a patch,
when it's a man's own." He spoke quickly
and as carelessly as he could, but he watched
his mother anxiously. She was still looking
away from him, as she said, " I thought
that you were going to do nothing. Isn't
it early to begin giving away the land ? "
The land ! Mother I A little slip of
a garden ! " Dick looked at her with eyes
bright and eager. He wished so much to
persuade, and as usual he could not help
hoping that he should succeed. He had no
conception of the depth of the wound which
he honored to heal. He did not know how
honos she had nursed in silence the feeling
of ill-treatment ; how she had been injured
by his premature independence ; how she
had cherished the annoyance, which her
self-willed boy caused, as loyalty to her

dear husband, who was dead. Now as she
sat silent in her chair and would not meet
the anxious eyes of her son, the feeling of
personal injury was being swallowed in a
rising tide of sorrow for the future of this
headstrong boy. It seemed sad indeed that
he should have lost the father, who would
have been the best suite and guardian in
the world ; and whose authority, she felt
sure, would never have been questioned.
Of that at least she was certain ; as she
was certain that the man, who had been
taken from her, was the wisest and strongest
of men.

I wish I could do something for you,"
said Dick at last, and he came a little
nearer.

Thank you ; I want nothing," she said.
I think we had better say no more at
present," she added after a minute.

Then Dick knew that he had better go.
He stooped to kiss her on the forehead, but

lie did not seem to notice his kiss. She
was sitting with her busy hands dropped
idly in her lap. He stopped a minute at
the door, half hoping that she would call
him back; and then he went out, less
happy than he had ever been in his life
before.

CHAPTEK XX.

When Dick had done that which seemed
good in his eyes, and had made himself
master of his broad acres, with power to sell
them or to leave them to whom he would,
he began to think that for the present at
least there was nothing more for him to do.
No farmer demanded a new gate; no labourer's
cottage incurred the rebuke of the
Sanitary Inspector. Though he had full
power over his own timber, he found that
his trees were neither too many nor too
few, and that they were all in the best condition.
He almost regretted that his agent
had done his work so well. He went back
to his pamphlets ; and he invested in large

blue-books, which reported the fertility
of land under every kind of tenure. He
had no difficulty in persuading Fabian
Deane to pay him long visits, and to share
his studies. When he was not shut up in
his den, he made himself busy in the open
air. He tramped through turnips after
partridges ; or he took long walks through
lanes and field-paths of the valley, and out
over the open downs. He made expeditions
in search of a horse, till he found a
worthy companion for the old hunter, who
had succeeded the well-loved pony of his
boyhood. So with a week's covert-shooting
in November, for which the house was
almost as full as in August ; with a day
or two in each week with the hounds ;
with walking with or without a gun ; with
much study and with long thoughts, Dick's
autumn and winter wore away. It was a
very peaceful time. The days seemed to
pass, as the days of former years. Almost

every day the mother and son were under
the same roof; and every morning and
evening they kissed each other, as they
had kissed each other every morning and
evening since Dick was a baby.

And yet, though this mother and son
had neither quarrel nor dispute during all
those months, both were conscious of some
unhappy influence which kept them apart.
Indeed Sophie Hartland could scarcely forget
for a moment that she was aggrieved.
She did her daily round of little duties
with even more scrupulous regularity than
before ; but she carried to the drawing-rooms
of her county neighbours, and to the
cottages of her friends in the village, a
constant sense of injury. She was patient
and gentle as ever. She sought no sympathy
and made no complaint ; but the
pride, which kept her silent, brought her
but little comfort. She was sore at heart,
and the sight of the being, whom she loved

VOL. II. B

best in the world, gave her more pain than
pleasure. She was so much alone, that she
had time enough to go round and round the
weary circle of sad thoughts ; to convince
herself every day anew how ill she had been
treated; and to preach to herself, till she
found some cold comfort in an enthusiasm
almost religious, that her duty to her dear
dead husband made it impossible for her to
forgive her self-willed son. She told herself
again and again that she would spare
no pains to help Dick ; that she would not
attempt to oppose him any more ; that she
would make his home as pleasant as possible,
till he had made up his mind to sell
it, or had brought home some other woman
to reign over it. Mrs Hartland's imagination
was often busy with this lady of
the future ; though she had faced the fact
that of course he would not consult her,
nor indeed anybody else, when he chose a
wife. She thought that he would probably

be taken in by some flattering woman ;
but, come well come ill of his choice, she
was determined that she would yield her
place in the household without a struggle.
She would only pray that her successor
might make her boy happy.

Meanwhile, in spite of Mrs Hartland's
conscientious efforts to make his home
pleasant, Dick did not find it very lively.
Alone with his mother he felt a new constraint
which was hard to bear. He caught
himself imagining her unspoken criticisms,
when he found her eyes resting on him ; and
he called himself a fool for yielding to such
fancies. He even caught himself weighing
his words before he spoke to her. The old
frankness of their everyday life was lost.
Dick was uneasy in an atmosphere charged
with possible misunderstandings. He felt
as if the silence of the house drove him to
self-examination ; and of self - examination
he soon had more than enough. It was an

occupation for which he had no natural
taste. So more and more, as the winter
passed away, he buried himself in his den ;
and, when he had had enough of reading,
he found uncritical companions in his gun
or his horse. When he had tramped afoot
for hours, his step would be light, and his
mind busy with many plans for the future.
When he was galloping over the grass with
a strong horse under him and the hounds
not far away, conscious of a whole field of
neighbours and friends, all riding the same
way with rivalry and good-fellowship, he
felt in full measure his boyish delight in
quick movement and the strife of comrades.
At such times, if a thought of his mother
crossed his mind, the shadow that had come
between them seemed almost nothing. A
little while, and all would be well. She
could not long be cold to him, who meant
so well, and who was so fond of her. Besides
nobody had ever been cold to him for

honor. Yet when he went home, there was
the shadow still ; there was the same sense
of uneasiness, which it was as hard to explain
as to explain away.

Slowly the winter departed, and the
first signs of spring were seen in the land.
Spring came, and with spring came Venus
with all the Nymphs and Graces, for Betty
Langdon was going to be married. All the
long winter John Tor Id gt on had chafed, for
the most part silently, at the delay; and at
last the lady had consented with amiability
to be married before Lent. It was for this
wedding only that Dick Hartland had
waited ; for in Dick, as in so many men
since the days of Geoffrey Chaucer, the
first breath of spring had awakened the
desire to go a journey. Once eager to go
he found no lack of reasons. All winter he
had been at home with nothing to do ; and
he was tired of doing nothing. And then
to his own heart he said that, when he came

back after an absence, he would find again
the mother, whom he had almost worshipped
as a child. Always hopeful he was sure
that a little separation would do a world of
good ; and that there would be no shadow of
disagreement in the future between himself
and her, whom he should always love best
of women. Mrs Hartland seemed to approve
the plan ; at least she refrained from any
hint of opposition. The second person, to
whom Dick spoke on the subject was Fabian
Deane ; and on that enthusiast the proposal
that he should travel again with his sometime
pupil produced a remarkable effect.
Several interests, which were smouldering
in Fabian at the moment, rushed together
into one blaze. He had been lashing himself
with accounts of the persecution of
Jews in Russia and Romania. He had
made the acquaintance of a political prophet,
who was calmly awaiting the return of the
chosen people to Jerusalem. He had been

reading as part of his study of the land
question some glowing — perhaps too glowing
accounts of the fertility of the soil of
Palestine. When Dick spoke of travel,
Fabian was straightway on fire for Jerusalem,
and for the plain of Esdraelon standing
thick with corn. Dick, though he laughed at
his friend's uncontrolled ardour, was quick
to catch a portion of his enthusiasm. This
journey could not but be interesting, and
the mode of life delightful. Moreover he
had had no glimpse of anything Eastern;
and he thought that he owed it to himself
to form some idea of the East. Every morning
he had been studying in his paper the
last aspect of the Eastern Question. Who
could tell what the final outcome of this
latest struggle of Kussian and Turk would
be '? Who could tell what would happen to
Palestine, if the Ottoman Empire fell to
pieces ? Was there a happier future for the
Holy Land ? Was it to be again a Land of

Promise ? Such questions were exciting.
There could scarcely be a better time for
the visit of inquiring youth. So everything
was in readiness before Miss Langdon's
wedding-day. The travellers had engaged
a dragoman who was to meet them at Alexandria;
and all things necessary for the
journey were to await them at Jappha.

John Dodington and Betty Langdon were
married under the happiest auspices. Her-vie
Langdon's house by the river held
plenty of people ; for he was fond of adding
pleasant rooms as ideas came to him, and
had made the low-roofed irregular cottage,
while it preserved its modest air, large
enough for many friends. And now the
house was full of friends. More friends,
and acquaintance too, came to the ceremony
from London ; but, though more women
than men were attracted by a spectacle so
interesting to the sex, of all the women
there was not one so lovely as the bride.

Feminine criticism could find no fault with
her appearance, except that she displayed
too much composure. Indeed she was more
blooming than ever; and she moved her
father to some show of enthusiasm by her
quiet determination to have enough breakfast
before she went away. And when at
last they went away, they went under a
smiling sky. The sun shone in the soft
blue, while on the low distant hills the
shadows of light floating clouds passed
quickly ; the wind was westerly ; it was an
April day which had come before its time.
In the meadows by the river the grass was
already rich and deep ; and farther from
the bank in a slight hollow of the upland
field the first slender dafibdils were astir.
On such a day the carter jolting down a
country lane tries to whistle a tune ; and
on such a day the hearts of young lovers
newly wed should have been full of hope and
trust in the bounty of the unknown years.

Dick was ready enough to feel the new
life in the air. The desire of motion came
from the moving stream. The river seemed
to have awakened to caprice and joy. Its
full dull progress under a sullen sky had
changed to play of sun and shadow, and
whispers in the reeds. The old river
seemed young again, and in its journey
down found time to linger where the sun
was warm, and to lift the lily leaves in
every little bay and still back-water. Dick
could never see the Thames without longing
to be on it. As soon as the young couple
departed, and when the rest of the people
had begun to wander aimlessly through the
house and lawn and shrubberies, Dick went
in search of Ossie ; and having found him
he straightway took possession of him, and
of his boat. Somewhat to his surprise the
perplexing youth followed him without protest.
This too-ready acquiescence of Ossie
excited, as it always did, a vague disquiet

in his cousin. Dick looked narrowly at
Ossie, who looked remarkably well, and
innocent. Mr Osbert Langdon had spent
a pleasant autumn and winter. He had
visited some of the most agreeable country-houses,
and had been more or less spoiled
in all of them. More lately he had been
riding with his usual happy recklessness
the best horses of a generous, but injudicious,
friend. Having had, as he himself
expressed it, as many crumpled as he cared
about, he had come home to see the last of
his sister before her marriage. During all
this time he had given no report of himself
to Dick ; and Dick with his happy hopefulness
had inferred from his silence that
he was not in any scrape particularly bad.
Now however he felt somewhat less easy.
When he had sculled a little way up-stream,
he suddenly stopped and fixing his eyes on
Ossie, who was lounging in the stern and
playing with the rudder-lines, he asked,

'' Have you been up to anything particular
? "

"No," said Ossie, but he spoke rather
doubtfully.

'you are in some scrape again," said Dick.

"Dickie my dear," said Ossie with his
fingers trifling with the stream, " I'm thinking
of giving you a treat. Suppose I go
with you tomorrow — to Jericho — or wherever
it is."

What have you been doing ? " asked
Dick.

"Nothing. Really and truly I don't
think there's anything."

What is it ? "

"Well, if there is anything — it's this
business of me and Sukey."

What have you been doing ? And who
on earth is Sukey ? "

Don't be affected, Dickie," said his
cousin with apparent severity : "do you
mean to say that you haven't heard about

Susan Bond and me ? Everybody's talking
about it' he added beaming with a sweet
pleasure.

"Do you mean to say that there was
really anything in that nonsense 1 You
are not engaged to Miss Bond '? "

'' I don't know' said Ossie.

Dick regarded his cousin with a perplexed
expression ; he wondered, as he had often
wondered, what on earth he should do with
him. Of course he should like of all things
to take him abroad ; but this wish made
him more careful not to decide in a hurry.
He began to scull again ; he had a theory
that he thought more clearly, when he was
doing something vigorous with his muscles.
However, when he stopped, he had thought
of nothing better to say than, — " You don't
know if you are engaged or not ? "

Ossie shook his head pathetically ; he
seemed to regard himself as the victim of
a cruel fate.

"Does she know that you want to go
away '? '' asked Dick presently.

It was lie who toil me to," said Ossie.

"Then I suppose that, if there was an
engagement — it's the most absurd thing I
ever heard of in my life — anyway she has
broken it off?"

I don't know. She's the cleverest girl
I know ; and," — Ossie smiled seraphically
as he added, — " she's awfully fond of me ! "

And are you fond of her 1 " asked Dick,
as if he would bring this wayward creature
to the point.

I don't know," answered Ossie ; and
then as he saw a look of impatience on his
cousin's face, he made haste to add, " Of
course I like her ; she amuses me awfully ;
and she never bores one, don't you know."

Dick re awarded his cousin with a look of
wonder. He could not think of anything
else to say. He turned the boat and allowed
her to float down-stream, while he sat with

this knees drawn up, and thought. Presently
he straightened his back and legs,
and with a few strong strokes brought the
light boat to the side of the sloping lawn.
Now," said he, " you jump out, and go and
ask your father, what he thinks about your
going with Fabian and me tomorrow."

I hate Fabian Deane," said Ossie inconsequently
as he slowly got out of the
boat.

'' You'll have to learn to like him," said
Dick.

Ossie lingered on the bank and stared
at his cousin. *' Don't you think, Dickie,"
he said persuasively after a few minutes ;
"don't you think that you could put it
better to the padre 1 And I'll go and talk
it over with your mother. I like talking
things over with your mother."

He stood smiling tenderly on his cousin,
who at last began to laugh in spite of himself,
and so felt obliged to say, " All right."

When Hervie Langdon heard what his
nephew had to say, he looked a little rueful.
"What shall I do without a child in the
house ? " he asked.

Well' said Dick, " I suppose he is too
much of a child to take care of a wife."

To take care ! My dear boy, he isn't
capable of being taken care of."

*then do let him come," said Dick;
"there's nothing I should like better in
the world."

"So be it. That's a clever girl ; too
clever to be in a hurry. Upon my word it
is vastly amusing. Ossie ! " And with his
boy's name Hervie Langdon burst into one
of his explosions of laughter. When the
laughter was subsiding, he said, — "Take
him with you. Tell me what his share will
be, and I will give you the money ; I don't
suppose he has got any. It will be a reprieve
for the dear boy anyway."

CHAPTER XXI.

Weddings are generally exciting to women ;
and the wedding of her sister's only girl
could not but be exciting to Sophie Hart-land.
When she had given the last kiss to
Betty and had whispered a blessing in her
ear, she had gone to her room for rest and
solitude ; and there she had been discovered
by Ossie eager to tell her everything about
himself. Ossie never denied himself the
luxury of female sympathy ; and there was
no woman, not even Miss Bond, to whom
he liked so well to pour out confidences, as
to his aunt Sophie. Sophie listening patiently
thought with tenderness of this dear
boy; of his sister who had just taken the

VOL. II. c

most solemn step in a woman's life ; and of
their mother, who would have liked so well
to have listened to her boy and girl that
day. But though she thought of these dear
people, and even while she was giving her
nephew the best advice, she was thinking
far more of her own son and of his going
from her on the morrow. She was glad
that Ossie was to go too ; and she made
him promise to write to her, thus cunningly
securing a second series of reports of Dick's
welfare. She knew that Dick would write
when he could ; but she had made up her
mind not to be importunate about letters.
She was determined that he should have no
cause to blame her for want of consideration.
Perhaps, while she showed consideration for
his convenience, she did not realise how
much she gave to her own pride. She had
no hesitation in strictly charging Ossie to
write whenever he could, whether he liked
it or not.

At last the wedding-day was done. When
-it was gone — with its irregular hours, its .
vacant restlessness, its gaiety a little forced,
with its old trappings of ribbons and
laces, smiles and good wishes, cake, rice
and slippers — Mrs Hartland found that,
though night was come, she could not
sleep. She was tired, but could not rest.
She was hot in spite of the cool air from
the passing river. She got up and went to
the window. The quiet of the night seemed
to soothe her ; and, when she felt cool, she
wrapped a soft dressing-gown about her, and
laid herself on the sofa. Still she could not
sleep. She could not help thinking, and all
her thoughts were of Dick. Somehow in
the night she seemed less sure of herself, less
confident that she was wholly right. Vague
misri vinous forced her to insist ao^ain and
again on the grounds of her displeasure ;
and yet she was tired of this insistence ;
she longed to rest. How wretched it all

was I Why was her only boy so self-willed,
so wanting in consideration for her
no, not for her ; she thought that she
could easily forgive that ; but why had he
so little consideration for the father, who
could never claim his just authority? So
to Mrs Hartland, who was accustomed to
sleep so well, did a sleepless night bring the
recurrence of dreary thoughts. When it
seemed impossible that she should sleep at
all, she went to the window again, threw it
wide open, and leaned into the coolness of
the night. There as she leaned, a new
thought came to her, which filled her for a
moment with self-reproach, though it came
as a relief to breaking the old circle of
thoughts. She wondered, as she had wondered
so often at the end of her schoolboy's
holidays, if Dick had everything which he
ought to take with him on his journey.
She blamed herself for not having considered
this question before. And yet had she not

deliberately made up her miiid not to interfere
in his plans in any way ? She
applauded herself for having been so true
to her determination. She might hope for
the best, and pray for the best ; but he must
go his own way, and be his own master.
He had chosen to decide everything for
himself; and of course she did not dispute
his right so to do. And yet it would be
dreadful, if he were ill, and had not the
proper remedies. The thought struck her
with an awful chill ; she turned away from
the window. If this thing happened, she
knew that she would blame herself forever
; that all her fine reasons for non-interference
would not save her a single pang.
It was so likely too that he was going without
those proper remedies. It was so like
a man to plunge into these dreadful Eastern
countries without even quinine. Then she
remembered that she had some quinine in
the small medicine - chest, without which

she went nowhere. She was too restless to
sleep ; she felt better if she walked about ;
for a time she walked backwards and forwards
in the rooro. Presently for the sake
of change she opened the door ; the passage
was dark and silent ; she walked out very
softly. As she passed the room where Dick
was sleeping, she made no pause ; but she
listened and could hear no sound ; she
noticed too that no light shone beneath the
door. She thought that he must be sleeping
soundly. She went back to her own
room ; she lighted a candle and beo^an to
look over her things with a careless air.
With the same careless air she noted the
contents of her medicine-chest. The glass
bottle, which she took out of its wooden
case, was quite full of quinine ; it seemed a
coincidence that none of it had been used.
Presently she was standing by Dick's door;,
she was very reluctant to go in ; she thought
that she was weak, and that she would be

sorry for her weakness in the morning.
And yet to put some quinine on her son's
table could be no breach of her determination
; she need not ask him to take it ; she
need say nothing about it ; he might take
it or leave it, as he chose. She turned
the handle noiselessly ; she almost held her
breath as she heard the soft regular breathing
of the sleeping boy ; it seemed to her
that the beating of her heart was loud
enough to wake him. With an effort to
be calm she walked very quietly into the
room. There on the floor was Dick's
weather-worn portmanteau strapped tight
and ready for the journey, and by its side
his black bag stood open ; she had to step
carefully by them that she might place the
quinine on his dressing-table. That was all
she meant to do ; and yet she lingered a
little. She stood still a moment looking
down at the strapped portmanteau. Then
shading the lio^ht with her hand she went

noiselessly to the bedside. Dick was sleeping
soundly. As she looked at him, a
sudden sob shook her ; she was frightened,
but he did not stir. This was her only
child. Indeed he looked most childlike ashe
slept. The lips, which had seemed of
late years so resolute, smiling often but
always unyielding, were parted now ; the
hair was all ruffled and the cheek flushed.
It was the face of her baby boy, which the
mother saw. She remembered how she had
held him up with pride to his father on
that morning, when he rode away in the
sunlight for the last time. With that memory
in her heart she bent down and kissed
her boy's cheek, but very softly, that she
might not wake him. Then she turned
away; but, as she went, she stooped for a
moment to stroke the old portmanteau,
which was to go with him. Half smiling
at her folly, yet on the brink of tears, she
hurried to her room. When she had locked

her door behind her, she felt safe ; there
was no need now for self-restraint ; she lay
down on her bed, turned her face to the
pillow, and cried. Then as she wept, her
heart found comfort ; she was glad of this
which she had done ; sweet rest came as
the tears flowed from her ; and at last she
slept.

The next morning at breakfast Sophie
Hartland looked cool and neat as usual ;
and she poured out tea for Hervie Langdon
and his guests, as if she had no thought
more solemn than the just distribution of
tea. Everybody seemed in the best humour.
The serious business, which had brought
them together, had been happily disposed
of ; their wedding garments were up-stairs ;
they had leisure to enjoy this brief salutation
of spring weather, the sunlight on the
river and the shadow on the lawn. Dick
was quiet and thoughtful ; but his eyes
were bright with the prospect of quick

movement, with the hope of adventure. As
for Ossie the suddenness of his determination
intoxicated him. In a few hours he
had collected all sorts of things for his
journey ; and among the rest he had borrowed
from his father, and in defiance of
Dick's protest, a big revolver, which he insisted
on packing in his warlike portmanteau.
Early in the morning he was
flitting about the house ; and while he
flitted about, and even later when he sat
at breakfast, he could not keep from laughing,
for his heart was lio^ht. It seemed to
him that troubles ceased to be, when one
ran away from them ; besides, to run away
and leave your friends agape With amazement
was capital fun.

All the party were on the steps to say
good-bye to the two cousins. They divided
the interest between them ; for Fabian
Deane was to join them in London.

Good-bye, mother," said Dick ; " thanks

for the quinine ; it was so good of you to
think of it ; good-bye."

*' Good-bye," she said, and she kissed
him in rather a stately manner. She was
in the midst of people who knew nothing
of her conflicting feelings ; she was chilled
by their light talk and jesting, their holiday
humour. When Ossie was already in
the cart, Dick turned to kiss his mother
once more. She received his kiss graciously.
" I hope you will have a pleasant
journey," she said.

Have you got the slipper ready to
throw ? " cried Ossie from the cart.

As the two boys were carried out of
sight, Sophie Hartland was waving her
handkerchief with the rest.

Chapter XXII.

Dick Hartland sat in the door of his
tent, which was pitched for the night on
the high plateau above Sinjil in Palestine.
It was midnight, and there was no moon ;
but in the heaven so far and deep and clear
shone an innumerable company of stars.
There was no sound except when a mule
or horse moved restlessly, or farther off an
Arab driver was crooning a monotonous
song. Both Osbert Langdon and Fabian
Deane were sound asleep ; the latter in the
smaller tent close by ; the former in the
larger tent, at the door of which Dick Hart-land
sat like a Turk, with his rug doubled
under him.

Dick was unusually solemn. It seemed
as if for the first time he was under the
strange influence of the East. During their
few days in Africa he had travelled, as he
had travelled often before. He had observed
a thousand things, and all sorts of strange
people, after that first boat-load of divers
types and brilliant colours, which had come
rowing to them off Alexandria. He had
paid a flying visit to Cairo by rail ; and he
had found there the most modern of Boulevards
cheek by jowl with the changeless
Bazar. He had scrambled up a Pyramid,
as if it were no more than Primrose Hill ;
and had laughed before the sightless face
of the Sphinx at Ossie's petulant criticism.
The travellers had had no time to linger ;
their dragoman urged them on like the
most Western of couriers ; he declared that
the right season for Palestine was passing.
Hurrying with laughter and quick glances
they had been as far as possible from the

ancient spirit of repose, which broods over
the unchanging East.

Now however these young men had been
journeying for many days through a land,
which seemed to have seen but few new
things, since Abraham pitched his tent in
the borders. Indeed they might well have
fancied that Abraham himself was dwelling
in one of those dark flat skin-covered
tents of wandering Arabs, which they had
seen one day low in a long wrinkle of the
crumbling hills. It was a land without
roads — almost, as it seemed, without people.
In the quiet days and vast still nights the
friends had fallen more and more into an
unusual silence. Even their sojourn in Jerusalem
had not broken the charm. They
had pitched their camp beside the city, and
had wandered about its walls ; they had sat
for hours on a house-top gazing idly across
the valley at the Mount of Olives. They
had wondered at the beauty of the Mosque,

VOL. II. D

which with light dome and cool clean tiles
sits, like a fair frail woman, in the place of
the gorgeous majestic temple of King Solomon.
They had seen what sights there
were ; but even sight-seeing was a different
thing in that strange place, where the very
Jews are poor and do not care to work.
And now it seemed a long time since they
had looked their last on Jerusalem. They
had forgotten to count the days ; but day
after day they had ridden slowly forward,
silent for the most part, silent
and solemn as Arab horsemen. Perhaps
the air of solemnity was wholly due to
Fabian Deane. Perhaps the silence of
Osbert Langdon was due to nothing more
than an agreeable laziness ; for Ossie was
apt to grow sleepy under a hot sun, and
was at times a little bored by the monotony
of this uneventful life. He was thinking
for the most part how hot it was ; how
pleasant their dinner in the cool evening

would be ; that a great many people must
by this time have come back to London.
Meanwhile Fabian was so full of burning
thoughts — of humanity, of the race, of himself
— that he had no time to speak ; and
Dick looking at him would occasionally
wonder when the storm would break, when
the flood would burst the dam.

The land, through which they had been
riding, was a thirsty land. The low parched
hills where furrowed with dry channels,
where living: waters used to run. There
was sand and rock and scrub ; and all
would have been desolate indeed, had not
the wild flowers thronged wherever they
could push their way, spreading wide carpets
in the wilderness. There were familiar
flowers abundant, as tulips, marigold, and
cyclamen, with many others rare and
strange — in all a great and glorious company,
like the stars of their Syrian heaven.
But now the travellers had come up out

«tb.

of these dry places. Before nightfall they
had passed along an old bridle-path, once
a water-course, with orange-trees and fig-trees
on either hand. From the plateau,
where their camp was pitched, they had
seen beyond the little white-walled village
low rolling hills, which seemed more green ;
and beyond these hills they knew that a
broader valley stood thick with growing corn.
Dick sitting cross-legged in the entrance
of his tent was full of grave thoughts. It
was so rare a thing for him to be wakeful,
when he had once laid himself down to
sleep, that he was in a mood to receive a
double portion of the influence of that wonderful
night. The little troubles and vain
ambitions of his fellows seemed to belong to
another world — a world in which he too had
skipped about with a full sense of his own
importance. The little events of the last
summer seemed to belongs to some distant
past, which like an oriental sage he now

might contemplate unmoved. Not only
did the dancing and dining, the light wooing
and rash gaming, seem petty beyond
belief. Scarcely less petty too seemed those
things political, which had been so important
— the party tactics — the chopping and
changes of complicated laws, which with
much groaning of ancient machinery are
adapted, if somewhat clumsily withal, to
those changes of society, which in our
loftier moments we name, *' The Progress of
Humanity." Somehow on that night to
Dick in his unusual mood the life of man
seemed something greater and deeper than
all progresses, however excellent — than all
experimental efforts to improve the conditions
of life. This earth was small amono^
the watching stars ; and perhaps man had
no stronger claim to greatness than this
discovery that his earth was small — no surer
proof of something divine within him than
this power to look upward and gaze with

awe and comprehension on vast worlds
and the spaces between. Matched with
the mind of a man, who is great enough to
measure his own insignificance, the death of
a man seems no great matter. Surely this
power of imagination, of conception, of love,
cannot be nothing, because the limbs are
still. Even to Dick Hartland strong; in
body and of a cheerful heart, happy in life
and keenly interested in the things of the
world, the unaccustomed thought of death
brought on that night no depression. He
felt very peaceful ; he was equal to either
fate ; he was ready to live, or to die if
need were.

It was natural enough that Dick Hart-land,
possessed as he was by a strange
solemnity, should begin to think after a
while of his mother, and to think of her
with unusual tenderness. Love seemed so
great a matter on that night, that it almost
seemed to him as if he ought to have put

aside all his plans, rather than have hurt his
mother. Such plans seemed little enough ;
and after all he had made no plans, but had
only secured for himself the power of making
them. For the sake of this poor power
of making philanthropic experiments, he
had hurt the best woman in the world.
She was still the first woman in the world
to him, if he could no longer believe that
she was always right. He thought of the
time when he was a little boy, before it had
ever occurred to him that she might be mistaken.
He was almost sorry that he had
ever outgrown his childish faith in her infallibility.
These views of his seemed there
and then to be but petty things to keep
loving hearts apart. Why should he seek
to be wiser than his father ? There in the
quiet of the Holy Land age after age had
passed away, and brought no change. The
past was ever present ; and the wisdom of
the fathers was enough for the children.

To this boy born to the hurry, and quickened
by the practical questions of the day,
it had scarcely seemed strange on that night,
had he looked from the door of his tent and
seen the angels of God walking shadowy in
the starlight. Perhaps they would come to
him, and bid him arise and go to his mother.
He was sure that, if he could not recover
his childlike faith in her judgment, he would
let her wishes influence his purpose with a
double power in the time to come. Since
he had left home, he had kept all her letters.
Indeed he had made this a sort of small
atonement, of which she knew nothing.
They were pleasant letters, in which not
only was no old controversy renewed, but
not even a hint of any difference was admitted.
They were full of news which he
was glad to know, of the welfare of his
friends, the prospects of the farmers, the
little affairs of the village. Holding her
last letter in his hand he smiled a little

at the thought that he held there a charm
against evil Nor was he far wrong. Had
not her whole life been such a charm for
him '? To the high ideal of this little lady,
to her exquisite refinement, to the purity of
her thoughts, her son owed in great measure
his chivalrous feeling for women. That
he could not seek to injure a woman ; that
he had always shrunk with a healthy antipathy
from low pleasures ; these facts
were in great part due to lessons learned
by a child, not knowing that he learned,
to breathing air made pure by the daily
beauty of a good mother s life. It was well
that she was the first woman in the world
to him. His thoughts wandered a little
further ; and he began to wonder if she
would always be the first. Being in a
tender mood he began to consider, as he
had considered more than once in the past
few years, what sort of woman he should
marry. He had plenty of theories of what

a wife should be ; and sitting idly there
he went through them once again. He
had made up his mind long ago that
when he had found his proper work in
the world, he would marry, — and not till
then. Then as his life was to be full of
activity, his wife must be quiet and gentle
; with her he should find repose in the
intervals of the struo^o^le. Of course she
would be very good, for he had no taste
for any but very good women. She must
be full of love and consideration for his
mother. He often doubted if it would not
be wise to leave the choice of his future
wife entirely to his mother. To give her a
daughter, loving and obedient, would be a
fine atonement for his own independence.
And so, after all, these vain imaginings had
for the most part tended to show that his
mother would be always the first woman in
the world to him. Even now on this night in
Palestine his first thought of his future wife

was as of a delightful gift for his mother.
Then he enumerated once again all those
merits and those quiet feminine virtues,
which were to complete his own active life.
The picture was the same ; and yet at that
strange hour it could not but be different.
The excellent housewife of his dreams was
softened by some shade of mystery ; some
wonder of womanhood seemed to veil the
image from critical eyes ; and it was with
a heart filled with a deeper emotion, that he
bent his head backward to gaze into the
immeasurable heaven.

CHAPTER XXIII.

From waking dreams and thoughts unusual
Dick was suddenly aroused by an appearance,
which seemed to bring upon him suddenly
all that was most modern in this
modern world. He turned with a shock to
everyday life ; for there was Ossie coming
forth from the tent, with his blanket wrapped
around him and a camp-stool dragged
behind him.

What are you doing out here ? " asked
Ossie.

'' Thinking," said Dick ; " I couldn't sleep
for a wonder."

*rand I can't sleep either," said Ossie,
who had been slumbering for hours like an

infant. " I don't think I often sleep now,"
lie added pathetically as he placed himself
beside his cousin.

^' Do you lie awake for sighing purposes
'{ " asked Dick with a levity, which
seemed to Mr Langdon ill-timed.

It's all very well for you," he said with
much dignity ; '' I only hope you may never
have to go through what I have gone
through." As he struck a match and raised
it to the cigarette in his mouth, Dick looked
at him critically, and seeing the very comfortable
expression of his face began to laugh.

I don't believe you ever cared tuppence
about her'' he said.

Ossie blew a ring of smoke, and a sigh
to follow. Then he took the cigarette from
his lips, and observed with manifest satisfaction,
— "Poor Susan! She was uncommon
fond of me."

I hope she'll get over it."

Very likely," said Ossie pathetically ;

very likely. I daresay it would be better.
It isn't everybody who could get on well
with me. I don't think people understand
me. You never understood me, Dick. You
can't understand this business of mine.
You've no sentiment."

He appeared to derive some comfort from
this consideration ; he wrapped himself, misunderstood
as he was, more warmly in his
blanket ; he sighed plaintively, and so relapsed
into silence. Soon however he
began to be annoyed, because his cousin
did not talk to him. He fidgeted a little
on his stool, and then asked Dick what he
had been thinking about before he joined
him.

Lots of things," said Dick ; " principally
death."

Ugh ! " said Ossie.

It's just as well to think about it sometimes.
Suppose you had to face it."

I should run," said Ossie — " like a hare."

Oh no you wouldn't' said Dick ; " you
can be plucky enough ; I call you rather a
reckless chap ; look at the way you ride
sometimes."

"That's all excitement. I should bean
an awful funk, if I had time to be."

Well then," said Dick with his inquisitorial
manner, *' suppose you had to choose
in cold blood between dying and doing a
dirty action ? "

I shouldn't die that time," said Ossian
he made a nice ring of smoke in the air.

** You don't know what you are saying."

I know I'd do anything rather than die ;
so would anybody ; and it's all bosh saying
they wouldn't. People nowadays ain't such
fools as to die if they can help it. Everybody
looks after himself, when it comes to
the point. You'd do anything to save your
life, just as I would."

'' God forbid ! " said Dick.

"Well I make no pretence," said Ossian

loftily as if he were on the highest moral
ground. " I'd do anything to save my
life ; and there isn't a fellow at the Club
who wouldn't say just as I do. The fact
iSj^Dick, you ain't a man of the world."

Well, I don't desire your death," said
Dick.

'' And I don't desire yours," said Ossie ;
and I advise you, if you see any danger,
to run "

'^ Like a hare ? " suggested Dick.

I like a nice warm comfortable life,"
continued his cousin ; '' and it's getting
beastly chilly here ; and I'm going back
to bed. Good-night, Dickie, you old brute.
Everybody for himself! and Sauve qin
peut! That's the thing in these days.
Chacun pour soi ! and the Devil take the
hindmost ! "

Mr Langdon's knowledge of the French
language was of the slightest, but he spoke
it with a very pretty accent. On the present

occasion his French precepts sounded so
pretty in his ear, that further argument
seemed unnecessary. Ossie felt himself
one of the wise and good, as, repeating
delicately, " Sauve qui pent ! Chacun pour
soi ! " he inserted himself carefully into his
narrow camp-bed and nestled down for
warmth.

Dick, left alone, sat staring out into the
night. " If 'twere now to die, 'twere now
to be most happy," his lips murmured.
Then he sat upright and threw his arms
outward and backward with a movement
full of life and energy. '^ What's the
matter with me ? " he said aloud, and
laughed. It seemed strange that he, of
all people, should sit so long motionless,
mooning, and even muttering poetry. He
wondered if he were going to be ill. He
never remembered to have been so wakeful
before. He began to consider what
he should do, if taken ill there and then,

VOL. II. E

he found himself unable to ride forward ;
and as he began to consider, he caught
himself yawning widely. Perhaps he was
not so wakeful after all. He would give
sleep another chance. So he rose and felt
his way through the darkness of the tent ;
and his head was scarcely on his pillow,
before he fell into a deep sleep, and dreamed
no more. He never stirred, until the tent
was full of mellow light, and Fabian Deane,
booted and spurred, stood dark in the doorway
with the bright morning behind him,
and shouted to the sluggards.

Chapter XXIV.

It needed but a breath to kindle Fabian
Deane into one blaze. Dick, who had carefully
counted for days past all the people
whom he saw, dropped the remark that the
land, through which they were riding, could
certainly support more inhabitants.

More I ^' cried Fabian after gazing sternly
on his friend for at least a minute ; " millions
! " and with a sudden pressure of the
knees he brought his old horse in teat
astonishment to the side of Dick's animal.
He fastened his hot eyes on Mr Hartland's
face, eager as he always was for an opportunity
of excitement. Fabian was just
beojinninor to find the life a little dull, and

to comfort himself with the thought that he
could not live without zealous action. For
the last few days he had been amusing himself
by trying to imitate the Arab seat on
horseback. He had succeeded in imitating
the Arab head-gear, and glared from under
the striped silk like the fiercest of Bedouin
warriors.

Why should not all this land flow again
with milk and honey ? " he asked with his
grand manner, and throwing his arm abroad.

*' I wish it would flow with a little more
water," said Dick. " If one could secure
water, and a fixed limit to taxation, it
wouldn't be a bad field for immigration."

'' It's a sublime idea," cried Fabian ; " the
wilderness shall blossom like a rose ; it shall
be once more fitly called the Holy Land."

South country labourers might stand
the heat well enough," said Dick thoughtfully.
'' They might learn to shade the
backs of their necks ; and to sleep at noon ;

and — "What's the effect of cider in a hot
climate ? "

*' I should like to try," said Ossie. It was
the first sign of life which he had given for
some time. He was sitting loosely in his
saddle, and holding a large white umbrella
over his head. His flannel coat was all
unbuttoned ; his breeches were unbuttoned
at the knee ; the gaiters, which he had taken
off, hung on his horse's neck, and his slippered
feet were hanging out of the stirrups.
He presented an appearance sufficiently demoralised.
It was very hot. They had been
riding since early morning low down along
the shore of the Sea of Galilee. The hi oho



hill on the left seemed to keep the air from
them ; and the sun now high over their
heads blazed in the oleander blossoms, by
which they rode. But the greater the heat,
the more quickly kindled to enthusiasm was
Fabian Deane. He too like the oleander
flowers seemed to throb with fierce sunlight.

^' It's a great idea," he cried again ; " here
is a land well nigh empty ; there is our
little England full to the brim of struggling
humanity. What is necessary ? An idea !
In a moment we infuse the torpid East with
Western blood."

'' A pretty long moment I " said Dick
laughing, though his pulse quickened, as he
thought that he really might do something ;
he felt glad of his friend's belief. "We
must wait till we get to Damascus," he
added, "and see Tisley. Old Peter says
that nobody knows this country like Cavendish
Tisley. If he can get me a good title,
and a guarantee against over-taxation, I'll
buy a bit of land, and send over a bailiff
and a few labourers to try the experiment."

"You will ? " cried Fabian in amazement.


Of course," said Dick ; *' I've been
thinking of it for weeks ; and it's worth
trying."

'' Thinking of it ! Yes, but — by heaven
Dick, I think you are the most wonderful
man in the world ! " His voice rose ashe
spoke, till the last words rang in the
air.

Dick blushed and looked round uneasily,
as if he heard his fame trumpeted to the
four quarters of the world. Then he
laughed, and said he hoped that it wasn't
as bad as all that."

You seem to think," said Fabian glaring
at him, "that to think of a plan, and
to carry it out is all the same thing."

'' Well, you must think of it first. That's
the hard part. It's easy enough to do the
right thing, when you've once seen what it
is."

Easy ! It's the most wonderful thing
under heaven, and in earth, and in the deep
sea to boot. If I had carried out one
millionth part of my plans, I should have
transformed the face of Europe long ago."

Dick began to laugh ; but Fabian regarded
him with a countenance stern and
full of awe.

I believe you to be great," he said.

come on," said Dick, and he kicked
his gallant old steed in the side.

Fabian leaned towards him, and laid his
hand on his gaudy bridle. ''I must tell
you," he said frowning. "It is great of
you to be always making plans for the
good of others. Your life is attuned to the
great harmonies ; it's sacred to the sacrifice
of self It's great. That's what it is ! "

"Don't talk nonsense," said Dick impatiently.
"What do I sacrifice? I like
making experiments ; I like to make people
happy if I can ; I've got the means to
satisfy my tastes ; I'm the luckiest fellow
in the world."

By heaven I think you are ! "

"And I hate talking about myself."

I wish you'd talk about luncheon," said

Ossie plaintively; *'liow much further,
Piero ^ "

"It is close to' answered the dragoman
with his quick responsive grin.

And yonder," added Fabian with a quick
change to his mock-heroic manner, — " lo !
yonder I descry our men, and our tents
our mules, and our she-asses."

Piero shook his head. " Those are of the
American Principe," he said.

The American what ! " cried Mr Deane ;
"art thou then unaware, most ignorant
of Maltese dragomans, that there is but one
thing which America cannot send us — and
that that one thing is a Principe 1 "

Piero answered only by a smile. He had
a great dislike to admitting any gap in his
extensive knowledge ; he determined to approach
again and with cunning diplomacy
this question of American princes, and to
arrive at the truth without displaying his
ignorance. Meanwhile he smiled a smile

of double meaning ; and he changed the
subject by becoming suddenly aware of the
well, whereby they were to rest. He struck
spurs to his long - suffering little animal,
and galloped forward.

Beautiful indeed it was in the eyes of the
dusty travellers, this mid-day resting-place,
when at last they reached it. They came
ridings out of the dust and the downright
glare of the sun ; and there at the foot of a
hill welled up from the cool depths of earth
the fairest of fountains. The clear water
was bound in by rocks ; some of which
had been moved from their natural place,
that the precious liquid might escape but
slowly through a mere crevice, and so
run trickling away. All over the rocks,
stooping for moisture, glistening and cool,
crouched an old fig-tree ; and the fruit —
perhaps before any other figs in the world
was already swelling on the boughs.

Dick gave a shout of welcome ; he swung

himself out of the saddle, and in a moment
was lying along the largest bough of the
fig - tree. Ossie looked for the most comfortable
stone, and so disposed himself that
he could dip his face in the water without
further movement. Fabian settled himself
in the shade with his back against the old
gnarled trunk. After the heat and the
thirst there could be no place more luxurious
in all the world ; and, when Piero had
provided the travellers with their frugal
luncheon, all three felt for a time an almost
perfect contentment. It was a very beautiful
place — a place of sweet waters in a
thirsty land — and it was here that Dick
saw, or fancied that he had seen, bright
eyes look at him for a moment with humorous
questioning. Ossie had fallen asleep
on the long flat stone with his cheek close
to the . water ; and Dick looking drowsily
down upon him was more and more occupied
by the thought, that without moving

on his branch he could touch his cousin's
head with his left hand. When he had
thought of this sufficiently, he lazily put
out his hand, and held it over the unconscious
sleeper's head, smiling with the delightful
knowledge that by the slightest
further movement he could plunge Ossie's
head into the crystal basin. While he hung
thus, like doubtful fate in a fig-tree, he was
aware of a noise of loves. Looking up he
saw four horses and their riders passing at
no great distance. There was a tall man
riding with long stirrups, and a seat rather
military ; a young girl mysterious in a
great veil ; another woman, who to the
idlest glance was revealed as a lady's-maid,
and moreover a French one ; and finally
the dragoman. There was an interchange
of rapid chatter between this last and Piero ;
the tall gentleman raised his hand towards
his wide felt hat; and leaving nothing buta
pufF of dust the party had passed away.

Dick lead not had time to move ; he had
only withdrawn the hand, which had been
hovering over his cousin's head, and had
passed it over his own eyes. Now he lay
there drowsy, stretched along the bough, till
Fabian Deane, wide awake and instantly
restless, began shouting — " To horse ! "

CHAPTER XXV.

One day, as the three friends were riding
onward together, Dick burst out laughing.
His was a laugh, which conciliated most
people ; and which never failed to excite
the curiosity of Fabian Deane.

"What is it?" cried Fabian, already on
the broad grin with sympathy ; " what are
you laughing at ? "

Dick opened his mouth to answer, but he
presently shut it again. He was astonished
at his own silence ; he was annoyed to find
himself blushing under the fixed gaze of his
friend, who was now regarding: him with
solemn inquiry. It was Dick's habit to
answer questions without hesitation ; and
after all, that which had moved his laughter

now was but a small matter. He had
been thinking how childish he must have
looked, hanging in a fig-tree, and debating
whether he should duck his unconscious
cousin or no. Any one, who had chanced
to see him so for the first time, must have
carried away a comical impression of him.
He could not help wondering, if he had
seen a real look of amusement and curiosity
; if it were possible to have observed
so much in a moment through a bier vei],
which was tied all over the hat and the hair ;
if he had really seen eyes, and why he
thought that they must be blue. Considering
such questions, as he rode through a monotonous
land, he had begun to laugh ; the
friend who watched him like an admiring;
and inquisitive collie, had asked him why ;
and much to his own amazement he had
not answered. He laughed ao^ain, but less
naturally, and shouted to Ossie some fragment
of their old school chaff.

One morning Dick and Fabian sat on
their horses, and watched the rapid packing
of tents, furniture, luggage, and kitchen on
the much-enduring mules and asses ; while
Ossie, with his bedroom falling around him,
was struggling with a stiff strap of his portmanteau,
and warbling pathetically. The
daily scene was always amusing. The muleteers
were always in a tremendous hurry,
though there was no need for haste ; and in
the midst of these childlike persons, who
played the same game every morning and
never were tired of it, the little wrinkled
Coptic cook, superior to the bustle, packed
his bright pans with calm deliberation. As
Dick and Fabian sat watching the well-known
scene, their brown keen-eyed dragoman,
who had been galloping hither and
thither and shouting commands, as if there
were really somebody who did not know
exactly what to do, reined in his little steed
beside them, smiling a conciliatory smile.

Smiling his best he pointed away across a
little valley, clown into which the sunlight
still was creeping. They looked where he
pointed, and were aware of something white
beyond a wrinkle of the low hill westward
something that shone silver white, as the
sun's rays caught it.

That American ! '' said Piero.

The encampment of the Principe
American ! " cried Fabian.

Piero smiled, as if he knew a great deal
more than he could be induced to make
public. He had not yet been able to discover
the real truth about the princes of
America ; and a true instinct warned him,
that from Mr Deane at least he would gain
nothing but a bombastic fiction.

As Dick sat and looked across the valley
to that gleaming speck of white, he felt a
hand stroking his knee, and looking down
saw a little brown boy who had crept up
from the neighbouring mud villa ose. The

VOL. II. F

hand left off stroking the cords and was
extended in the usual fashion ; the soft
Syrian eyes assumed their most imploring
expression, and the little voice murmured
that one word of Arabic which all travellers
learn so quickly. Dick patted the thin little
shoulder, which the tattered shirt left bare ;
and then he dropped a Turkish coin — a
strange little concave circle of pewter with
a hole in it — into the little hand. As the
dark face flushed with joy, it suddenly occurred
to Dick that he had done something,
which would commend itself to a young-woman
of quick sympathy. It was a strange
thought, but pleasant.

Day after day the three friends journeyed,
without adventure, but with much
enjoyment. Once they passed a well,
Whereby the day before had been a skirmish
between Druses and some Maronite
villagers. Once they passed a long string
of Circassians, men, women, and children,

transplanted on a sudden from Europe, that
they might slay and be slain in quarrels
with the Arabs beyond Jordan, and so contribute
to the peace of their lord the Sultan.
Such things were events in the travellers'
quiet life. Quiet it was ; and yet the
healthy movement onward, far apart from
all the movements of the troubled time, had
a peculiar charm, which they all felt in
some degree. All day they rode on pathless
levels; on barely-marked tracks; on
dry water-courses. In the evening resting
in their tents they would wonder what was
going on in the busy world ; how this man
was getting on ; if that man were engaged
yet ; what was the exact state of things
political. To this last question the excitement,
which they had left behind in England,
lent peculiar fascination. It was
probable that in the world of journals and of
politicians wonderful rumours were flying
about. Not a letter nor a paper could by

any means reach them — not a rumour.
Any evening, as they sat silent or idly
speculating, a battle might be raging, which
would alter the face of Europe. At that
moment the old empire of the Turks might
be even at an end ; and who could foretell
the consequences 1 Fabian would lash himself
to excitement over the extraordinary
contrast between his ignorance of events, and
the events which might already be. What
if the armistice were ended, and the Russians
already in Stamboul '? What if the
future of this very land, in which he
stretched his legs after a long day's riding,
were already settled ? He gave his
imagination free play, till Ossie nearly
yawned his head off, and Dick said for
the hundredth time that they were sure to
find news at Damascus. If there were a
British protectorate of Palestine, it would
help his plan of purchasing an estate there.
And then friend Fabian would wax eloquent

on the awakening from so long sleep ;
on the blossoming of the wilderness ; the
extinction, by fire if necessary, of the accursed
usurer, and of the pasha's tax-gatherer.
He always returned to Dick's plan of
land-purchase with a double portion of enthusiasm.
He expressed an absolute reverence
for his friend. He enjoyed this feeling
of all things. Oxford with all its professors
had afforded him no object of reverence.
London, Europe, the Round World itself
had failed to supply him with a personality
sufficiently venerable. But in the
pupil, whom he had intended to fora, he
had slowly learned to recognise the Master,
whom he could follow. This was the rare
man — the ideal of the Moral Philosopher —
who, seeing truly and desiring rightly, could
not but form the best purpose, and translate
it incontinently into the best action.
Mr Deane hugged himself for joy of this
incomparable treasure. The diver had risen

prince-like with his pearl, and was conscious
in every nerve of its value. What pleasure
could be compared for a moment with the
excitement of watching, even of assisting
the experiments of this sanguine youth ?
What stay was equal to this boy's strong
faith '? Fabian announced aloud that he
warmed both hands at the fire of his friend's
life. Indeed he was always getting up little
fires, vigorously puffing with the bellows of
his enthusiasm, that he might warm those
nervous restless hands. " Look at me," he
would cry, debasing himself for artistic love
of a strong contrast, — "a creature blown
about by every wind; with half-a-dozen
fragments of faculties ; a napkin full of useless
talents ; a miserable creature who can
do nothing." Thereupon he would convulsively
press his knees upon his astonished
quadruped, and leap forward with his chin
in the air, his eyes flashing, and the manner
of a victorious paladin.

Wonderful are the compensations of life.
As Fabian Deane limbed himself with
pleasure more and more keen before the
feet of Dick Hartland, he himself was becoming
an object of interest in the eyes of
his other companion. Ossie felt a need of
talking about himself to somebody ; and, as
Dick would only laugh at his sentiment, he
bes^an to turn to Fabian, and to forget that
he hated him. He had acquired a habit of
condemning Mr Deane unheard, for having
come between his cousin and himself. But
habits were mislaid, like gloves, by Ossie ;
and Dick was not greatly surprised when
he saw his two companions draw daily
nearer to each other. Dick knew well
enough, when he observed the pathos of
his cousin's looks and the wide stern eyes
of the listener, that a sentimental history
was being poured into a sympathetic ear.
Dick knew that history, so far as it was
constant ; he was well aware that what had

been was not always accurately distinguished
from what might have been ; that the whole
tangled skein changed colour, like a pigeon's
breast, with the angle of the sunlight.

*' Why have I never known what a
charming fellow your cousin is '? " asked
Fabian sternly one evening. " I have never
met a more delightful nature — so frank !
He told me everything about himself —
everything ; I might have been his brother ;
I wish I were. I have never had so delightful
a compliment as his ready confidence —
never in my life ! "

I say," said Ossie on that same night,
as he was undressing himself on the opposite
side of the tent, *' your friend Deane is
the best fellow I ever met. He is full of
soul. I like fellows with souls. And how
well he talks ! "

You looked as if you were doing all the
talking," said Dick sleepily from his bed.

Oh, if you are going to be disagreeable,"

said Mr Langdon ; he said no more, until
after a few minutes he felt constrained
to add, — " That's just the difference with a
really sympathetic chap."

Good-night, Ossie," said Dick, and was
presently asleep.

I wish I had always had such a friend,"
murmured Ossie pathetically ; " I should
have been a better fellow — perhaps." His
sense of pathos would have been heightened,
had he known that his cousin, whose
heart should have been melted by his words,
was already far away in the depths of slumber,
and was not even dreaming of him.

CHAPTER Xxii.

Since dawn they had been riding through
a dreary land. The plain lay behind
them and around them, flat and barren,
deformed by crumbling stones and squalid
scrub. The dust rose powdery from their
horses' feet, and the fierce hot sun beat
downright on their brains. They rode
without speech, and all about them grim
silence brooded in the fiery air. Then
little by little a look of listening came into
their faces ; it was hard to be sure if they
heard anything or no. Then little by little
grew upon the ear a sound of many waters.
The jaded beasts quickened their pace unbidden.
Then, like a mirage to a thirsty

traveller in the desert, was a vision of waving
green, a gleam of silver ; and presently
the three young men were riding by a river,
which was sparkling here and there below
them, hurrying with glad rush of shadowed
waters through moving shade. There was
shade all the way ; for in long line on either
bank slender trees stood close together ;
and trees had pushed down knee-deep into
the stream, drinking refreshment and waving
their delicate green heads ; even the
trees seemed to be hastening forward, down
to the city of fountains.

'' Praise be to God," murmured Fabian,
who liveth the thirsty land."

Then they all began to talk ; and presently
Ossie fell to humming a little French
air, eloquent of youth and love. And so
a little above the happy rushing river they
rode, with new life and light-hearted, till
Piero, who was cunning showman enough
to present his best effects without previous

warning, pointed suddenly and with dramatic
fire up a dusty hill, and said briefly —
From that top, Damascus ! " Fabian
caught fire in an instant, dashed his animal
at the hill, and was half-way up the
slope before Ossie had grasped the dragoman's
meaning.

When they had all reached the top, they
were all silent for a time. The stream of
trees, by which they had been riding, came
forth beneath them from the mouth of the
valley, and spread like a large fan, luxuriant
and freshly green, wide into the dry
barren plain. Slender minarets rose among
the trees ; and everywhere was the shy
gleaming of water. Tired of glare and
dust they looked down from their barren
height upon an earthly paradise.

After a time Ossie began softly to sing
his little French romance. Dick got off
his horse and loosened the girths. Fabian
still sat motionless and silent in his saddle ;

and in his mind rose some tale of the young
Mahomet, gazing down on this city of fair
waters, and thereafter turning away to the
desert and to the choice of a paradise more
spiritual.

'' A great sight, sir ! " said a strange voice.

They turned and recognised the American
traveller who had passed them by
the fig-tree. A little further to the right
they could see his horses, and the young
lady attended by the maid and dragoman.
The father had come to make friends ; and
he had the air of a man whose offers of
friendliness were always well received. He
stood upright with his wide awake in his
hand, and his smile showed a set of teeth
very white and regular. His fresh colour
and clear blue eyes made him look younger
than he was ; but he was saved from an
excessive youthfulness by the unconcealed
baldness of the top of his head. For the
rest, his hair was soft and brown ; and his

face was shaved so scrupulously, that viewed
in connection with the difficulties of travel
and the lazy influence of the Levant it suggested
no little care of his personal appearance.
The admirable cut of the spotless
nankeen clothes, which hanorinor loose seemed
yet to fit so well the tall straight figure,
conveyed the same suggestion.

Indeed there seemed every reason why
his advances should be well received ; and
it is certain that he expected a good reception.
The young Englishmen did not disappoint
him. Indeed Mr Deane, who was
given to inveigh with quite disproportionate
fierceness against the Insular reserve
and cold manners of his countrymen, provoked
a look of amused wonder in the tall
stranger's blue eyes by the desperate earnestness
of his address. He did the honours
of the view, as if he had never been
anywhere else. The torrent of words, which
seemed to trip over each other, of unfinished

sentences and eager interjections, which
were intended to prove the absence of all
British pride and suspicion, were comically
contrasted with the few deliberate utterances
of the American.

Ossie listened to the dialogue with lips
softly whistling ; while Dick was wondering
whether the girl, who never looked that
way, was aware that her father was talking
to them. He wondered what she was
thinking about. He fancied that there was
something melancholy in her air, as she
looked away to the city of gardens, and
beyond the city to the boundless breadth
of dusty plain. She was so far away, that
he could not see the expression of her face ;
but as he idly watched her, he saw her
raise a handkerchief for a moment to her
eyes. He wondered if the action was
caused by the dust.

''I expect that we shall meet again at
the Hotel'' said their new acquaintance.

-0 yes"— '^ of course"— "I hope so,"
said the three young men ; and they turned
their horses as they spoke, and rode away
down the hilL

The hotel, where they alighted in the
city of Damascus, was not as other hotels.
All round the large square court were crisp
green pomegranate shrubs, newly lit with
little blossoms, like flames, amid the cool
shiny leaves. Behind this row of shrubs was
the shady space into which rooms opened
on every side ; and above this space was
the wide covered gallery, into which more
rooms opened in like manner. A railing-ran
round the gallery ; and on this railing
a lazy man, or a poet imbibing the Orient,
might lean all day, stare at the liberal fountain,
which splashed in the sunny centre of
the court below, and listen to its pleasant
music.

In one of the rooms on the ground-floor
a daily dinner was prepared for guests, if

there were any in the hotel, and for a few
European dwellers in the town ; and in this
sparsely-furnished apartment Dick Hartland
and his friends were seated at the long bare
table, when at the sound of a moving gown
they looked up, and saw the American girl
following her father through the doorway,
which was open at that hour to the softened
evening light. There were no ladies in the
room ; but the young girl came in, as one
who is accustomed to the eyes of men. She
seemed unaware of their looks ; she was
very neat, cool, and self-possessed. Dick
was disappointed. She was not so pretty
as he had expected. She was pretty, but
by no means beautiful. Yet she was
pretty. The brown hair looked very soft
about her fair low forehead; and the
eyes, which were after all not blue but
grey, had a pleasant expression of interest
and candour. Her eyebrows were arched
and delicate ; and her skin was like the

VOL. II. G

inner side of the rose-leaves. Even Dick,
who had given little thought to the ways
of women, knew in a moment why the big
veil had been worn on the journey. She
was pretty — but after all no prettier than
many other people ; and Dick recognised
this fact with a feeling, which was comically
like relief. As she seated herself at
the table, he suddenly thought that he was
looking at her too long ; but before he
could withdraw his eyes, her eyes had met
them. She gave a little grave bow, as to
her father s friends, and turned to speak to
her father.

What a delightful little turned-up nose ! "
whispered Ossie to Dick.

'' Hush ! " said Dick shortly; " she'll hear
you."

What's the odds ? " muttered Ossie unabashed
; '' she'd like it."

After dinner Dick went up-stairs to write
a letter to his mother. After the fulfilment

of this duty as he was crossing the great
court below, he saw the lamplight streaming
through the polished leaves of a pomegranate
from an open door behind it. From
the same doorway came the sound of voices;
and as he recognised among them the impassioned
tones of Fabian Deane, Dick
turned aside and looked into the room.
Two swinging lamps, which were not too
bright, hung from the ceiling, and beneath
them a little fountain splashed in its shallow
basin. Dick saw at a glance that his
friends were already on the best terms with
their new acquaintance. On one side of
the room the young lady and Ossie were
chatting pleasantly together ; while on the
low divan, which ran along the opposite
wall, Fabian was sitting sideways, eager for
information, plying his new friend with
weighty questions about American affairs.
He was amazed by the answers which he
received. Scorn of insular prejudice was

his dominant feeling on that day ; he had
been ready to sing second to the most
extravagant praises of the great Western
world, and to accept with a sigh the inevitable
comparison with the dear mother
country — the little England who — alas I —
was growing old. But how could he sing
second, if the other would not take the
leading part in the paean ? He found himself
prompting the American to laudations
of his country ; and the necessity for this
prompting seemed to upset all his established
views of the Transatlantic character.
Fabian grew excited, and as his excitement
increased, the other was more critical, more
humorous, more deliberate. Dick came in
with a smile and seated himself to listen.

*' It's astounding ! " said Fabian to him ;
he doesn't believe in Liberty, or Equality,
or the constitution of the United States, or
or anything."

The American laughed and laid his hand

on Dick's arm. " You must not think too
hardly of me," he said. "Your friend is
forcing me to the most heterodox admissions.
I fear that I have scared him badly
by my doubt, if any two babies were ever
born equal." Then as he was rather pleased
with the sensation which he had made, and
liked a small but intelligent audience, he
proceeded to assure them that there was
not an educated and sensible American
outside politics," who would not limit the
franchise, if he could. Then gliding into
a more humorous channel he began to tell
them stories about the last political campaign
; of the strategy of the Bosses, each
in his State ; of the ingenious tactics of the
city " wire-pullers ; " of the tapping of " the
barrel" in doubtful districts; of the Irish
vote and the consumption of whisky ; of
paid agents, and sub-agents, and deputy-subjacent
— all voters ; of " buldozers " and
"repeaters," and other persons prominent

in politics. Afterwards he spoke with unabated
cheerfulness of the taxes, which he
had to pay; and of the amount of money
which the erection of a single public building
could be made to cost under the fostering
care of a city government.

What a pernicious, incredible, wholly
ghastly state of things ! " cried Fabian at last.

Well," said the American, " I suspect
that we are rather proud of it. It's on a
big scale. It causes us to realise the greatness
of our country. We really do think
that there is no other country, which could
afford to be so badly governed."

*' You are the most extraordinary American,"
said Mr Deane, as if he were personally
offended.

I don't think I should have known you
were an American," said Dick.

I presume that you mean that for a
compliment," said their new acquaintance
with another smile.

"No," said Dick, "T said it because I
think it."

Ah ! That's better," said the other.

If you knew Dick," said Ossie plaintively
from the other side of the room,
you'd know that compliments ain't much
in his line."

Dick looked across at Ossie, and saw that
the grey eyes of the girl, with whom his
cousin had been talking so busily, were
regarding him with a frank questioning
look. As she did not turn her eyes away,
he rose and walked across the room to her.

"I have been telling your friend," she
said, "that he ought to go to Newport.
He's just the kind of Englishman to have
a good time at Newport. He would be
such a belle."

I shan't go till you are back in America,"
said Ossie with a nod.

When do you think of going back 1 "
asked Dick.

I wish you could get her to answer
that," said her father. " You don't know
the lamentable condition of man on our
side of the water. We were under the
fond delusion that we had abolished slavery
; but until the American woman is abolished,
there will be no freedom for American
men. I am now being dragged around
the world — luckily it is not a very large
one, as worlds go — because this young
lady is tired of Boston ; and New York ;
and Newport ; and tired of dancing the
German ; of summer picnics ; of winter
sleigh-rides ; of "

The girl looked up quickly with the
pretty eyebrows raised and the underlip
a little pouting. " Well '? " he asked.

As they looked at each other, father and
daughter both began to smile. Then she
put her arm through his, as if she would
lead him away.

'' Hold on a minute ! " he said ; " I wish

to present myself to these gentlemen. My
name is Holcroft — Henry Holcroft of Boston
; and this is my daughter Kitty, —
whom I ought to Lave named first, as she
is by far the more important person."

Then they all laughed, and Dick made
haste to introduce himself and his friends,
not without embarrassment. Mr Holcroft
bowed to each as his name was mentioned ;
assured them collectively of his pleasure
at having met them, and so departed with
his daughter.

"That's a clever girl, if you like," said
Ossie.

The suggestion of cleverness came with
a slight shock to Dick. He was just thinking
what an arch innocent face it was.

CHAPTER XXVII.

Day followed day ; and neither the Hole
nor the three young Englishmen
seemed in a hurry to leave Damascus.
There were reasons enough for delay. The
American showed a fine taste for inlaid
armour and embroidered silks, and spent
hours at a time in the narrow ways of
the Bazar. In that all - day twilight he
found the atmosphere of antiquity, which,
as he liked to declare, gave him a livelier
pleasure, than anything else which he had
experienced in his travels. He would stand
looking down one of these Ion or shaded alleys,
in w^liich perhaps a single shaft of light
fell through the boards above straight upon

a booth of brilliant colours ; and standing
there he would remind his young friends
again and again that they might have found
the same scene — the same in all its details
on any day in any year of any century,
when they had " happened to come along."
He would admit no limitation to the absolute
carelessness, with which he pleased
his fancy. He seemed almost serious in
his assertion that the turbaned slumbrous
sellers, who sat cross-legged on their booths,
had sat there when the good Haroun Al-raschid
was Caliph in Bagdad. With these
same solemn merchants he was never tired
of making bargains. He rejoiced to see
them roused to sudden life, like old snakes
on the introduction of a rabbit, by the first
suggestion of barter. He would furnish his
dragoman with new and fantastic objections
to the thing which he intended to buy, and
would listen with childlike pleasure to the
protestations translated to him. After all

his bargaining this only fear seemed to be
that his attendant, who entered keenly into
the sport, would insist on the harmless old
gentlemen parting with their goods too
cheap. Indeed he was so generous with
his money, that it was not long before the
court of the hotel became itself a centre
of commerce, where grave merchants were
found motionless and smoking at all hours
of the day.

If Mr Holcroft lingered in Damascus for
love of the antique, his new friends had
even stronger reasons for delay. It was
pleasant to stay in one place after daily
journeying, and to talk to new people after
so long an experience of each others' conversation
; but these reasons were only
good enough for Ossie. Weightier matters
detained his comrades. They had
made the acquaintance of Mr Cavendish
Tisley; and though Mr Tisley had said
but little, he had listened with interest to

Dick's plan of purchasing an estate in
Palestine. Cavendish Tisley was a great
listener. As he sat attentive, with his
capacious forehead bowed a little forward,
it was almost impossible not to credit him
with great powers of thought. He was
not tall, but he was very solemn and deliberate
; and if he was a little stout, so
was the great Napoleon. He was almost
always booted ; he was given to riding
through the adjacent country, sitting solid
in the saddle, and staring. His steadfast
gaze was almost as impressive, as his air of
attentive listening. Why Cavendish Tisley
lived in Damascus no man knew, — and no
woman ; for Mrs Tisley was content with
wonder ; and this wonder was part of that
vast admiration, with which she regarded
her silent lord. The less he told her, the
more she admired him. She gave him
credit for thoughts so profound, that they
would shatter her poor intellect; for

schemes so far-reaching, that her imagination
could not comprehend them. She
knew that he was a student, or rather a
master of the Eastern Question. To his
mental powers and to his rides, which she
gratefully acknowledged to be also good for
his health, she ascribed his exhaustive knowledge
of the hardest problem of modern
politics. She asked to know no more. She
watched him ride forth, and come in ; and
she had his slippers ready, when he divested
himself of those stupendous boots. A few
facts connected with the sojourn of Mr
Tisley in Damascus were indeed known to
a few select persons. It was known that
he wrote occasional letters to a friend in
London. It was known moreover that this
friend was a Member of Parliament. Now
this Member never lost an opportunity of
speaking in any debate connected, however
slightly, with The Eastern Question ; and
he had acquired no slight reputation for

his knowledge of '' public opinion on the
spot." Public opinion on the spot, whether
the spot in question were in Bagdad, Jerusalem,
Stamboul, or even in the mountains
of Thessaly, was represented in the mind of
that eloquent legislator by Mr Cavendish
Tisley. Mr Tisley had once talked with an
Arab chief from beyond Jordan : and more
than once he had paid a visit, patronising
and mysterious, to a venerable but servile
sage and conjurer, who lived near him in
Damascus. To such a man Dick's plan of
buying a few acres was of course a small
matter. He smiled not unkindly, but a
little sadly, as if he too would like to be
able to interest himself in these trifles of
every day. After twenty - four hours he
committed himself to the statement, that
it was impossible to say whether the little
plan could be carried out or not. When
two more days had gone, he promised to
make inquiries; and he hinted with due

solemnity that he must await some secret
information from Constantinople. Meanwhile
at Constantinople itself nothing exciting
had occurred. On the downs about
the city the Russian and Turkish armies
confronted each other, as they had been
confronting each other for many weeks.
There was no collision ; and the armistice
was maintained. Fabian Deane would
occasionally cry out in amazement that
after all their journeying where no news
could reach them, after all their mighty
speculations about great events in progress,
they had come out from the world of
wonder to find that nothing whatever had
happened since they left the world of facts.
Dick Hartland was quite content to wait
for further information about the possibility
of his purchase. Ossie wondered that his
cousin, who was so uncomfortably energetic,
could stay quiet in a place where there was
so little to do ; and when he expressed his

wonder, Dick was a little surprised himself
that he found Damascus so interesting.
There was little to see except flowers and
fountains ; green trees amid the low white
houses ; minarets like slender cypresses for
life and beauty ; fine oval faces of young
boys and girls with faint rose-bloom on
clear dark skins, delicate straight features
and long lovely eyes ; and the loose bright-coloured
raiment of wrinkled elders. A
string of camels entering a narrow lane of
the Bazar with dignified looks and paces,
treading the dust mottled by specks of sunlight
with their widespread silent feet, was
the chief event of a day. Certainly there
was little to do in Damascus, and no objects
to visit ; and yet Dick found the place
interesting. Perhaps his contentment was
in great part due to the society of Mr Hole
He felt a strong sympathy with his
new friend's good temper and pleasant
humour ; and he liked to gain information

VOL. II. H

about American people and American land
from a man, who knew a good deal and
told it so pleasantly. Mr Holcroft was
emphatically interesting. Then there was
his daughter too. She seemed like her
father, and yet unlike. She was not
always so frankly pleasant. Dick thought
that he could read the father at a glance;
but the daughter puzzled him a little.
She did not say much to him ; and when
he was talking with her father, though
she sometimes listened with a face bright
with interest, she more often stood quiet
with an absent look in her grey eyes, and
perhaps a slight smile on the mouth, which
seemed to the young man like a rose-bud.
Once or twice, when he was speaking, his
eyes met hers, and his words were checked
for a moment by her look. It struck him
that she was not attending to his arguments
; but that she was rather regarding
him with a calm interest, as if she wondered

what sort of man he was. He did not
object; he had nothing to hide; he hoped
she thought well of him. He did not know
what he thought of her, except that she was
spoiled by her father. However she too
was interesting.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

One morning Dick came out of his room
with a long day's idleness before him, and
not in the least annoyed by the prospect.
He was full of life ; and yet he was content
to do nothing, but loaf about and look at
the strange people and bright colours, the old
doorways in shadow, and the camel in the
street. Certainly none of his relations and
friends would have predicted this leisurely
temper in Dick Hartland.

Dick went and leaned on the railing and
looked down into the court, which usually
furnished something or somebody to look
at. Now however it seemed to be empty ;
and the young man was idly noting how

sharp was the edge of the shadow, which at
that early hour left but a narrow strip of
whiteness on the pavement, when he was
aware of another spectator. He could see
Miss Holcroft sitting under the balcony on
his left. One of the pomegranate tubs had
been moved for her convenience ; and it had
left for her sketching a bit of the court, the
fountain, and beyond the fountain the shrubs
and the overhanging gallery. Dick watched
her a little while, silent in air above her,
and smiling, childishly enough, with pleasure
because she did not know that anybody was
looking at her. He knew that girls were
supposed to put on airs and graces, when
they knew that men were looking at them.
So he smiled to himself — and he smiled
too, because she seemed to complete the
picture before him so prettily.

After a time he began humming an old
English air; and he was still humming
with a delightful consciousness of wellbeing,

when he strolled down the stairs and
crossed the court towards the young artist.
Miss Holcroft did not seem to put on any
airs and graces in honour of the young
Englishman. She paused for a moment,
with her brush in the air, to give him a
little nod of welcome ; then she turned her
eyes again to the scene before her, and even
screwed them up a little in her effort to see
it exactly as it was. It was clear that she
was in a very conscientious mood.

You seem to be always at work," said
Dick, standing leisurely behind her with
his hands dropped idle in his coat-pockets.

I am tired of doing nothing'' she said ;
IVe been doing nothing all my life."

Not a very long time ! " murmured
Dick ; and, as she took no notice of this
comment, he added presently, " You went
in tremendously for society in America, I
suppose ? "

She pouted, and looked critically at

lier sketch with her head on one side.
Society went in for me," she said, as she
put a touch very carefully on the paper.

Dick laughed : " And you didn't dislike
it, I suppose ? " he asked.

Dislike it ! I had a splendid time — for
two seasons. But two seasons are enough
for any girl. At the end of the second
season I knew just what everybody would
say. They said very sweet things ; but I
was tired of sweets. I told papa that, if I
stayed for a third season, I should go mad."
She spoke rather slowly, and she paused
after every sentence while she attended to
her painting. Dick had supposed that all
American women had high disagreeable
voices, but the voice of this girl at least
seemed sweet and rather low. She laid
great emphasis on the word '' very," and
the accent on the first syllable of " papa ; "
but trifles such as these seemed delicate
touches, which for the young Englishman

only heightened her individuality, her distinction.
Dick never for a moment supposed
that there were many American girls
like this one. There might be many
prettier, or cleverer, or more independent ;
but this girl was peculiar. He was sure
that, wherever she might be, she was
not like other girls. Certainly she was
interesting.

And don't you ever sigh for the balls
and parties and things 1 " asked Dick
presently.

"Never," she answered. "Cousin Hasty
has written me all winter whole volumes
full of dances — and bouquets — and beaux
and who's attentive to who — and it's veri
interesting ; but I never wish I was there.
I bequeathed Hasty all my partners, and
flowers. When I go home, I shall be
passee ; I shall do art needlework."

*' When do you think you shall go
back ? "

We shan't go home for at least a year."

But don't you bate missing Newport ?
Isn't that the place where they have everything
— even hunting in summer ? Isn't it
an awfully jolly place 1 "

"Newport is heavenly."

Very well then ? "

I told you that I was tired of amusing
myself." She seemed to be tired of sketching
for the time being ; for she laid her block on
one side. Then she looked up at Dick with
that little pout of the underlip, which he
was beginning to recognise, and said —
"Ah, Mr Hartland, I see that you think
me frivolous." At the moment Dick was
thinking her charming. She seemed so
frank and natural, that they were like old
friends.

Not too frivolous," he said.

I suppose I am frivolous," she observed
with an air of gravity. " I like to feel that
I am dressed perfectly. I like attentions.

That's why I could never be happy in
England."

Why not ? I am sure you could."

*' No. In England the men expect the
attentions. Wouldn't you be shocked, as
an Englishman, if I sent you for some clean
water for my painting 1 "

I should run," said Dick ; " but haven't
you painted enough ? You are always absorbed
in something ? "

I came abroad to improve myself," she
said. " You are not running very fast ;
and you needn't ; I won't paint any more.
One way of improving oneself is to talk to
intelligent foreigners."

"Thank you for the compliment," said
Dick.

*' Oh you don't know what an interesting
specimen you are. Mr Langdon told me
that you are a squire. I never quite realised
that there were squires outside of your
En owlish novels." She regarded Dick, who

had seated himself on the edge of the
nearest pomegranate - tub, with her frank
straightforward look. He laughed, as he
assured her that he was not quite sure what
a squire was. At this she expressed great
surprise.

You are a landowner, anyhow ? " she
asked.

Yes," answered Dick.

And you ride around your farms '? "

I sometimes trot over to see a farmer I "

And you — how do you say it ? — you
appoint your minister ? "

My what ? "

Your — pastor — parson "

"Clergyman," said Dick. "Yes, there is
a living in my gift; but it's disposed of
long ago. My mother found the parson.
My mother's rather fond of parsons. But
you must come yourself and see the place
when you come to England. You ought
to see an English country-place, you know ;

and I'm sure you'd like Glaring. Everybody
likes Glaring."

Glaring," she repeated : "Glaring! What
a pretty name ! Why, it's perfectly lovely! "
She sat musing for a minute. " I wonder
if I shall ever go to England. I don't know
any English ladies. I should love to know
your mother."

There was something in these last words
of Miss Holcroft, which startled Dick. There
were certain grave thoughts, which always
returned to him at the mention of his
mother. And now he began to wonder
what his mother would think of this girl.
So far as he knew, Mrs Hartland had
never spoken to an American ; but now he
suddenly remembered the very time and
place, when and where he had heard her
speak with grave disapproval of american
women, as terribly extravagant, and caring
for nothing but dress, and for the attentions
of men. He seemed to see his mother,

as he had seen her then, standing in all
her severe simplicity, mildly regretful for
the frivolity of the ladies beyond the sea.

Well 1 " said the girl, who had so lately
confessed a liking for dress and for attention
; and Dick began to laugh.

You can't go back to the States," he
said, " without going through England."

We can go home from Havre," said
she ; " and please don't say ' The States.'
If there is a things I cannot endure, it is
to hear your countrymen talk about ' the
States'"

'' What am I to say ? "

"Say 'America'"

But there are other places in America

besides your What shall I call

them ? "

There's nothing: else that amounts to
anything," she said, with her pretty little
mutinous air, as she rose and picked up
her sketch-book and paint-box.

Mayn't I carry them for you 1 " asked
Dick.

Ah," she said, with her eyebrows raised,
you wish to show me that Englishmen can
be polite ; but I wish to show you that
American girls are not all helpless." She
gave him a smile and nod for farewell,
and moved away, — a light, graceful figure
under the shadow of the old gallery.

On the evening of the same day, Dick
came in from an aimless ramble through
the nearest streets ; and as he entered the
hotel, it occurred to him that he would
look for Miss Holcroft. There were several
questions which he would like to ask her.
He was curious about social life in America,
and her answers were sure to be amusing.
Indeed he was already smiling, though he
did not know it, while he pictured the
changes of her face as she listened to his
questions. He found Mr Holcroft and
Fabian Deane smoking with oriental calm

the tobacco of Latakia, with their coffee-cups
fragile as egg-shells on the little round
table between them; both were silent, and listening
to the drowsy music of the fountain.
Dick made no effort to rouse these energetic
gentlemen from their unwonted lethargy,
but crossed the court to the open door of
the sitting - room. There she was in the
corner, which she had made her own ; and
there was Ossie by her side. They were so
much interested, that neither noticed the
new comer in the doorway. Dick turned
away with an unusual feeling of irritation.
For the first time it struck him as unmanly
in Ossie to trade on his appearance
of boyhood and innocence. He had observed
long ago that many women treated
his cousin as a boy, and admitted him
easily to a peculiar intimacy on the ground
of his harmlessness. Formerly he had
laughed at this fact; but now it struck
him as a little objectionable. He had a

vision of the little boudoir back-stairs Abbe
with lace ruffles. He thought that women
ought not to be deceived by this false air
of guilelessness ; certainly clever women
ought not to be so deceived for a moment ;
if a clever woman did not see through
Osric, the only possible reason was that
she chose to be blind. Dick had no doubt
that Miss Holcroft was very clever. She
must have seen through the imposture of
many men. Probably she had had a love
affair, or two. What more likely than that
she was abroad on account of something
of the sort 1 How easily the bloom is
brushed away from a girl in the bustle
and crowding of a meanly - ambitious
society 1 How quickly she loses that
fine maidenly intuition, which warns her
of the approach of anything not wholly
respectful and refined ! This finest of
feminine powers becomes dull. She grows
accustomed to coarser flavours, to amusements

ever more and more exciting. To
Dick the inevitable effect of worldly society
on a young woman seemed at that
moment startlingly clear. No nature however
naturally fine could withstand the
fatal influence. He felt sure that two
years ago Miss Holcroft would have shrunk
from sitting in a corner with a frivolous
young man ; that she would have been
distressed by his sham sentiment, and his
sham simplicity.

Dick's thoughts had been following each
other with extraordinary rapidity ; and he
suddenly awoke to the fact that they
were going very far. He found that
he was painting the light-hearted cousin,
of whom he had always been so fond, in
very black colours — and for no reason ;
for it could hardly be called a reason that
he had found him talking pleasantly with
a young lady in the cool of the evening.
Dick thought that something must be the

VOL. II. I

matter with himself; but he did not waste
time in considering his own symptoms. He
turned back again, and walked with a careless
air into the room. Ossie stopped his
chatter for a moment, nodded, and turned
again to his companion. If the girl's grey-eyes
were raised to him, Dick did not
notice them. It struck him that he was
not wanted. He turned over some photographs
on the table ; he laughed rather
loudly at one of them, which did not
amuse him in the least degree ; and then
he sauntered out of the room. Just beyond
the threshold he began to whistle
an Italian air inspired by the proverbial
variability of the sex, but he stopped almost
instantly. For a few moments he lingered
in the court, where he could hear the lively
talk of the two young people but not distinguish
the words. Why should he care
for the words ? Of course they were chattering
about dancing and gowns, about

Newport and Paris. He looked back at
the open door, through which the light
streamed softly ; then he strode across the
open space, with never a glance for the
numberless bright stars set so far away,
and came to Mr Holcroft and Fabian.
Fabian was aroused from his unusual
silence by the sight of his friend. '' To
think that we are in Damascus ! " he exclaimed.


'* Considering the time we have been
wasting here," said Dick, '* I wonder you
haven't found it out before." He meant
to speak humorously, but the tone of his
voice was cross; and this was so unusual
a matter, that Fabian raised himself in his
seat and stared at his friend with penetrating
eyes.

CHAPTER XXIX.

When Dick awoke the next morning, his
temper was cheerful as usual. He vaguely
remembered that he had been cross on the
previous evening — and for no reason. He
was in a most interesting place, and with
pleasant people; and he meant to enjoy
these good things. He could not think
what had been the matter with him ; he
did not care to think. As the cool light
of early morning filled his bare room, his
spirits rose higher and higher. Perhaps
one cause of his elation was that on that
day at least there was something definite
to be done. Mr Cavendish Tisley had determined
to visit a native village, which

was at some distance from the city. Nobody
knew why Mr Tisley wished to gaze
on this particular village. It was enough
that his purpose had been formed ; and
this purpose was chiefly interesting to some
of his new acquaintance, because he had
offered to be their guide, if they would
ride with him. He had appointed an early
hour for the start ; for it was important
to reach the village before the sun was
very hot, and to allow plenty of time for
the noontide halt, and luncheon in the
shade. They were to carry their food
on an extra beast. Altogether it was
emphatically an expedition ; and Dick after
leisurely days was excited by the prospect
of something to do.

When they were all assembled outside
the city, they were so imposing a party,
that Mr Tisley would have been almost
justified in feeling like a colonel of irregular
horse on active service. He sat silent

and round on his weedy animal, courteous
but grave, and solemnly inspected his
troop. The horses of the three young
Englishmen seemed unusually lively after
their late repose, and shared the gaiety of
their riders. Fabian dashed through the
dust with the air of an Arab at play. Mr
Holcroft ambled up with his long stirrups,
and beside him cantered his daughter with
her blue veil drawn again about her face.
Then Piero and the other dragoman began
to exclaim vehemently ; Mr Tisley's trusty
attendant started the led horse with the
provisions; the great Cavendish himself
moved slowly forward ; the expedition had
started.

The sight of the blue veil reminded Dick
of the day when he first saw it, of those
pleasant moments when he looked from the
leaves of a fig-tree and saw a girl ride by.
He smiled as he thought, how important
a Western girl became in a land, where

women seemed beings of another species.
After all there was nothing remarkable
about this slight American maiden. Dick
thought that in London she would be merely
one of many pretty girls. He was certain
that nobody would even notice her, if Mrs
Dodington were present ; and he tried to
recall his cousin' Betty's face, and to see it
side by side with that of the girl before
him. It is probable that he was staring ;
for presently Miss Holcroft turned towards
him with an expression of inquiry. Though
her look was grave and contemplative, Dick
could not help thinking that she regarded
him with some amusement. Several times
he had seen her look at him like that — as if,
he said to himself, she were observing some
rather comical specimen. He thought it a
little bold ; he could not reconcile it with
his idea of a young girl — an idea which included
a modest dropping of the eyes, when
they met those of a young man — but nevertheless

it excited his curiosity. Now he
thought that he would ask her what she
found in him to laugh at ; but even, as he
moved in his saddle, Ossie rode up to heron
the farther side, and was greeted with
much animation. As she reined back her
horse, Dick pushed forward and joined her
father. Ending by the side of Mr Holcroft
he could not only talk with that pleasant
gentleman ; but he could also catch occasional
fragments of the conversation, which
was carried on in front and rear. In front
he saw Fabian Deane grow more and more
excited, as he rode close beside Mr Cavendish
Tisley and spurred him to brief oracular
utterances.

Only a handful of marines 1 " cried
Fabian in great surprise ; "is that all you'd
want ? " and Dick saw Mr Tisley 's nod
momentous with the finite of nations.

"They can do everything but dress,"
said Miss Holcroft in the rear — ''ah, but

that is very tactless of me ; and I do admire
them ever so much."

^' English girls ain't bad," said Ossie, and
Dick wondered if he gave a passing thought
to Susan Bond.

The Druses ! Yes, yes ? " asked Fabian
eagerly.

'' They are so strong," said Miss Holcroft,
and have such splendid colour ; and they
can walk all day ; and they ride so well ;
and they manage the village schools."

You haven't known many of 'em, have
you 1 " asked Ossie.

*'No," she said; "but I know all about
them from your English novels."

Oh," said Ossie, and he began thinking
of the society young ladies of his acquaintance,
and lazily wondering, how many of
them had bright colour, and could walk or
ride all day without fatigue.

It would be a revolution ! " cried Fabian,
as if a revolution were the most desirable of

luxuries ; and Cavendish Tisley inclined his
head slowly.

As the sun grew hotter, the party became
more silent. Even Fabian relapsed into
longer periods of burning thought, and
contented himself more and more with
gazing at his mysterious companion, in
whom he was beginning to see one, who
should mould the destinies of Asia. They
had left the flowering cactus-shrubs behind,
and the land, through which they rode,
became ever more dry and desolate. At
last Mr Cavendish Tisley drew rein, and
pointed silently to a low dusty hill before
them. Without a guide they might have
passed the place, not knowing that it was
a village. The low mud hovels, of the same
colour as the earth, scarcely broke the outline
of the hill. From these human burrows
a few lean ragged people crept out to look
at them with friendly, though apathetic,
faces. Almost all were women and nearly

naked children ; for the men were scratching
the ground somewhere, that the fruits of
their labour might be shared between the
Pasha and the City Usurers. Of these
usurers Dick had heard something, which
filled him with righteous indignation ; and
now, as he looked at these patient half-starved
faces, he was obliged to relieve his
feelings by abusing these money-lenders to
Mr Holcroft.

They get some scoundrel of a Vice-consul
to naturalise them," he said ; " and
then they use the bullying power of their
adopted Consulate to extort their 20 percent;
and that's what the Great Powers
do for the benefit of these poor barbarous
Orientals."

You don't mean so ? " said the American,
who indeed could scarcely believe this
discreditable fact. Mr Tisley had turned
his head to hear; he neither contradicted
nor confirmed the statement of this young

man, but his heavy face assumed the expression
of one who could tell far stranger
tales if he chose. He turned his head
back again, and sat staring at the village,
at which he had come forth to stare.
For all his indignation Dick almost laughed
aloud, as he looked at the stout gentleman
sitting solid on his weedy Arabian, and
marked the weight of thought on his brow.
It struck him, as it had struck him once
or twice before, that Cavendish Tisley's
observations of the country were a little
interfered with by intrusive thoughts of
this legs and their appearance in those portentous
boots. From Mr Tisley Dick's
eyes wandered to the place where Miss
Holcroft sat, withdrawn a little from the
party. While he was speaking of the
usurers to her father, he had all the time
been conscious that she too was listening.
He was a little annoyed by the fact
that, when lie was present, he could not

help thinking of her. Though she were
silent, and even when he would not look
at her, she seemed to make her presence
felt in a perplexing manner. She made
him think of her ; and she made him think
of himself — and this was annoying to him,
because it was one of his theories that ina
world, which furnished so much food for
thought, it was a waste of precious time
to think about oneself. However, since the
girl would by no means be ignored, he
allowed his eyes to wander in her direction.
She turned her head at once and
looked at him ; and he saw with surprise
the bright tears on her eyelashes. She was
sorry for these poor people ; and he felt a
quick sympathy with her sorrow. The
next moment he was annoyed again ; for
she continued to regard him with a pretty
mutinous look, as if she were asking him
what he thought of her tears, and telling
him at the same moment that she cared

not a jot what he thought. Dick said to
himself impatiently that this girl studied
effects. Nobody else had seen her tears,
for he was between her and the rest of
the party ; he thought that her position
had been deliberately chosen. A minute
later she was talking gaily to Ossie, as they
all rode briskly forward to the halting-place.
Not far away there was a little cluster of
palms by the fountain ; and in the shadow
of these stately trees Mr Tisley's dusky
attendant assisted by the dragomans had
prepared the light repast.

They were all rather silent as they rode
homeward, thinking many thoughts. One
thought recurred ao^ain and assail to Dick
Hartland — it was high time to leave
Damascus. He wondered how he could
have lingered there so long, when he might
have hurried onward to Constantinople, and
seen the Russian troops at San Stephen.
It was likely enough that he would never

have another chance of visiting Stamboul
at a moment so exciting. As for his plan
of buying a parcel of Syrian land, he felt
more and more doubtful whether he would
gain either information or assistance from
the great Cavendish. He thought that he
had been strangely stupid, because he had
not perceived long ago that he could learn
more in Pera about the future of Palestine,
and the possibility of his model farm.
When they drew near to the city and the
shadows were lengthening, he had made up
his mind to delay no more. He would
speak to his companions that evening ; he
did not suppose that they would raise any
serious objections ; he felt sure that neither
of them was doing any good there ; besides
both had acquired the habit of acquiescing
in his arrangements.

CHAPTEK XXX.

The excellent reasons for leaving Damascus,
with which Dick Hartland favoured his
friends, did not produce that prompt agreement
which he had expected. Fabian and
Ossie had come to his room, as he asked them
to do ; but when he told them of his wish to
depart on the next day, neither seemed ina
hurry to express approval of the plan.
On the contrary Ossie sat down in silence
on Dick's portmanteau and looked sulky ;
and Fabian, after contemplating his former
pupil for a minute with stern eyes, began
to walk up and down the room with his
hands behind his back and his lips pressed
tight together.

Well," said Dick to Ossie with an encouraging
manner, " don't look as if you'd
lost all your friends."

Ossie muttered something, from which
his cousin gathered that he doubted if he
had any friends, and rather thought that he
was not allowed to make any.

*' I can't understand you," cried Fabian
suddenly, stopping short in his walk and
glaring at Dick ; " I thought you were so
keen about this plan of yours."

'' I want to do the thing, if it can be
done," said Dick.

'' And yet you want to leave this place,
where according to universal consent is the
one man who knows what can be done in
Palestine and Syria — the one man who can
help you to do the thing, when he has
once pronounced that the thing can be
done."

When ! " echoed Dick with a smile
which seemed to the other too frivolous

VOL. II. K

for the subject. Fabian was irritated.
'* And what do you want to go for 1 " he
continued, stopping again in his walk and
wheeling round upon his friend. " Because
some great show may come off at Constantinople,
and you not be there to see 1 Do
you want to gape, like a tourist, at a battle
or an occupation ? If there is a battle, what
can you do ? What can you do, if the Russians
march into Constantinople ? Gape
like a venerable Cooking at a Raree show ?
I can't understand you, who are so practical,
so eager to do something, and who
actually have a plan for doing something
which ought to keep you here — on the spot
which — no, it beats me, I confess." And
here Mr Deane shrugged his shoulders,
strode to the window, and stared into the
darkness.

Then Mr Langdon from his place on
the portmanteau lifted up his voice in
turn. *' It does seem absurd," he complained,

"to go just when one has found
at last some decent people to talk to."

Dick looked from one friend to the other.
He hardly believed yet that the opposition
was serious. As he regarded his cousin's
pathetic expression, he was the more determined
to bear him away. It occurred to
him that it might not be so easy to break
off Ossie's idle flirtation at a later stage of
growth. He must cut it down at once.
When everything was ready, he was sure
that Ossie would go with him, probably
protesting, possibly sulky, but certain to
go. So he turned to Fabian, or rather to
Fabian's back, for his face was still persistently
turned to the darkness of the street.
"I think," said Dick, "that I am much
more likely to find out at the Embassy at
Therapia about the probable state of Palestine.
The more I think of it, the less likely
it seems that the country will be sufficiently
quiet for starting a farming experiment ;

but anyway Therapia's the place to make
inquiries."

Oh, if you prefer official information,"
said Mr Deane with an accent of superb
scorn on the word "official," "to the advice
and assistance of a man who knows Palestine
— who knows it like his own back-yard
of course there's no more to be said."

To tell you the truth," said Dick, " I'm
getting very sceptical about the great Cavendish.
Mr Hoi croft says he's a booted fraud."

Mr Deane looked at his friend as if he
had spoken blasphemy. '^Of course," he
said solemnly, " if you quote a man who's
utterly cynical "

'^ Cynical ! He's the most genial man I
ever met, and I thought you were devoted
to him."

*' I don't pretend not to like him ; but
he has no faith. Hear how he talks about
the great principles of his own country —
how — he doesn't do anything, and he

doesn't believe in anybody else doing anything
; and when he meets a man of force —
Holcroft ! "

The contrast between Mr Holcroft and
Mr Tisley seemed to be too great for more
complete expression.

The man of action hasn't done anything
that I know of," said Dick.

There was more sorrow than anger in
the gaze which Fabian fixed upon his
friend. '^ I am sorry for this," he said ;
"I've not been blind to it; I've seen it
growing — this unworthy distrust — this — if
I could only tell you some part of what
he has told me — of plans which include
the co-operation of the great Arab tribes,
of the Druses, of English marines — but
unfortunately my lips are sealed. He is
full of great thoughts; and if you would
only come into the thing heartily, there's
nobody could help him like you. I know
you, Dick ; and with this man you might

you might — good heavens ! there's no
knowing what you might not do ! "

"There's one thing I'm going to do,"
said Dick, *' and that is to leave this place
tomorrow."

*' Then there's no more to be said." After
this solemn declaration of the uselessness
of speech, and a brief pause distinguished
by a silence even more full of solemnity,
Mr Deane broke forth and spoke for half an
hour, almost without cessation, vehemently,
eloquently. As he spoke, he became much
excited by the pictures which he drew. He
walked up and down, glaring, occasionally
even gesticulating, as he fancied Syria and
Palestine redeemed by the joint action of
Cavendish Tisley and Richard Hartland,
and the whole land one garden for fertility
on the model of the latter's model farm.
Dick's little scheme was by no means to be
dropped ; but it was to be part of some
great plan, of which the account was sufficiently

fragmentary and mysterious. But
Fabian believed in this great plan for the
regeneration of the East; it was all complete
in one colossal mind ; there was only
one Tisley, and Fabian on that evening was
his prophet. What glowing visions he
beheld ! To what great hopes did he abandon
himself in a frenzy of self-abandonment
! At last when he had worked himself
up to the greatest possible heat, he
began to cool by degrees ; and under the
influence of the reaction he slowly passed,
as he too often did, to depreciation of himself.
Dick might do so much to help the
great Cavendish ; Dick was so sensible, so
prudent, so wise and good ; all that he,
Fabian, was good for, was to exhort, to
entreat, to implore his friend not to abandon
the great work. " I shall stay here,"
he said with great determination, " whether
you stay or go ; but what can I do ? I
know myself — none better; a sensitive

excitable creature ; in a fever when I ought
to be cool. If I see the right thing, I do
the wrong thing ; I trip at the critical
moment. Even now, if I had force, if I
could impose my will, I would weld you,
Dick, to this man, whom we have found
here, with his gigantic mind rusting in
this motionless corner; and you and he
together should — should move the world.
And instead of being strong to do this,
I am weak as water ; I dash myself
against you like the wave on the rock.
Yes, you are a rock. When you and heare
together, instead of being able to weld,
I am myself shaken like a reed ; I am all
nerves ; I know him to be great and good ;
I love you more than any one in the world ;
and yet, when you are together, I feel your
cold mutual distrust in every nerve. Together
you torture me — it's combinations
of people that torture sensitive creatures
poor weak creatures ; it's something to

know oneself a fool ; good-night Dick — no
I can't stop, and I can't go with you —
good-night and God bless you." The last
words came back with a sort of sob from
the gallery, whence Fabian was already
dashing for the stairs.

It was not the first time that Dick had
seen Mr Deane under the influence of great
excitement. He followed him out of the
room, and he called " Good-night " after his
flying figure with a voice full of friendliness.
Then he came back and looked with
a smile at Ossie, who was still sitting silent
on the portmanteau.

"Well, he's mad anyhow," said Ossie, as
if he derived some faint unholy consolation
from this belief.

'' The first thing in the morning," said
Dick, " I shall look up Piero ; and as soon ashe
can collect the men and beasts, we'll start."

"I don't think I shall go," said Ossie
ruffling his brows and pouting.

Dick thought that he was imitating an
expression of Miss Holcroft, and turned
shortly on his heel. '" Good-nights' he said.

At this hint Mr Langdon slowly rose
from his humble seat. He stood first on
one foot, then on the other. " Mind, I
don't promise to go," he said.

"Piero shall come back for you, if you
don't ; but you'll come ; you'll think better
of it in the morning."

No," said Ossie as sullenly as he could
say it — " I shan't promise."

Good-night," said Dick.

*' Mind, I haven't promised," said Ossie
from the gallery outside.

^' You go to bed," said his cousin shortly,
and he shut his door.

The next morning Dick was up betimes.
He found Piero, and went with him in
search of the other men. They could not
start early, but Dick was determined that he
would not sleep another night in Damascus.

When the necessary orders had been given
and the preparations were going forward,
he had leisure to think of his friends.
He had little doubt but that both Fabian
and Ossie would go with him ; but he soon
found that he was at least partly mistaken.
He found Fabian at the door of the hotel,
and he saw at once that he was very determined.
Mr Deane look tired, as if he had
spent a restless night ; but his lips were
tight set and his eyes sombre. He was
silent and dark, as a volcano after an eruption.
When Dick asked him his intentions,
he answered briefly that he should stay
where he was for the present, and that he
would write to the care of the British
Embassy at Therapia. Dick reminded him
that their troop were to be dismissed at
Beyrout, and offered to send Piero back to
him ; but he declined the dragoman ; he
was to be the guest of Mr Cavendish Tis-ley.
There was clearly no room for argument.

Dick asked where Ossie was, but
Fabian had not seen him. Then he inquired
for the Holcrofts, and learned with
a momentary disappointment that they
had gone away for the day with a consular
friend. The next minute, however,
he congratulated himself on not having
to say good-bye. He charged Fabian to
say all sorts of friendly things for him. By
this time he was impatient to be on the road.
And now Dick's patience was sorely
tried. He hunted high and low for his
cousin, and could not find him. He began
to think that he had hidden himself for
love of mischief. At last the whole cavalcade
appeared in the road — men and
mules and asses — and with them Piero,
alert upon his little horse, delighted to
have people to direct once more, shouting,
flourishing his whip, and wheeling
in the dust. Then a few lazy Orientals
squatting in the shadow of the house

saw the young Englishman stamping in
the sun, and wondered. Dick was on
the point of sending the dragoman and
his second in command to scour the city
in different directions, when Ossie came
lounging down the street with a cigarette
in his mouth. In the distance he seemed
to be smiling with great good humour;
but as he drew near, he resumed a dejected
air. However, he made no further objections
to departure. Finding that all his
goods were packed, he said that he supposed
he had better go. Grumbling softly
he allowed himself to be hoisted into the
saddle.

Good-bye, Fabian ! " said Dick ; " don't
forget to write. And don't forget to say
good-bye to the Holcrofts."

There was something in this last charge,
which seemed to amuse Mr Langdon. He
turned his head away, lest Dick should see
that he was smiling.

'' Good-bye," said Fabian gravely ; and
with jingling and jolting and strange cries
the procession started.

A week later the cousins were on board
a French steamer, which lay opposite to
the widely-curved shore and white houses
of Beyrout. They had dismissed the dragoman
and the sub-dragoman and all their
company; they had brought their luggage
on board and inspected their clean airy
cabins ; and now they sat on the wide deck
under the motionless awning, and gazed at
the still blue water. Thus they would be
doomed to sit for a week or more ; for the
steamer's progress was determined rather
by freight than by passengers, and, as she
lay now before Beyrout, so would she lie
before Latakia, and Tripoli, and Alexandretta,
lazily inquiring for goods.

Not even the prospect of this slow
voyage disturbed the equanimity of Dick
Hartland. As he could not make the boat

go faster, he congratulated himself that he
should get a glimpse of Rhodes, and of
Smyrna ; but the chief reason of his content
was that he had left Damascus behind
him. Looking back on that ancient city
he felt as if he had been dallying in Capua,
growing lazy and cross, while events great
enough to stir the blood of heroes were in
progress in the world. " It seems as if we
were to have this ship to ourselves," he
said to Ossie, as he got up and went to
the vessels side. '^ No," he added ; '^ there's
a boat coming."

Is there 1 " asked the other lazily and
with his pretty innocent air.

'* Yes. A man and a woman. Hullo !
By George ! — Ossie ! " Ossie came to his
side.

It's the Holcrofts," said Dick.

'ris it '? " asked Ossie after a pause.

Dick had been staring with all his eyes
at the advancing boat ; but there was

something so strange in the excessive indifference
of his cousin's question, that he
turned upon him in an instant. There was
no indifference in the tell-tale face ; it was
radiant with suppressed glee.

*you knew it?" cried Dick, and the
question needed no answer. " Well, I — "
he began again, and then he began to
laugh. Then Mr Langdon permitted himself
to laugh also.

CHAPTER XXXI.

After all, the leisurely coasting voyage was
very pleasant. Day after day the sea lay
flat beneath the wide radiance of the sun,
with scarce a ripple, and with scarce a
cloud the curved expanse of heaven was
deep and blue. Dick and Ossie and their
American friends had the main deck to
themselves ; and there they sat all day
under the widespread awning, reading or
talking, or looking with a moment's interest
at some object on the empty Asian shore.
Almost before he had forgiven the Holcrofts
for their presence, Dick was congratulating
himself on it. He was ready to affirm that
Mr Holcroft was the pleasantness travelling-vol.

II. L

companion in the world, always interested
but never excited, ready but not eager to
talk, with a quiet humour and an indomitable
sweetness of temper. As for his
daughter Kitty, Dick told himself that he
need have no fears about her ; that he had
only to keep an eye on his cousin. This
would be something to do ; and he liked
to have something to do. Very soon he
began to think that even this occupation
was unnecessary. It is true that the young
lady seemed well content that Ossie should
be often near her and should amuse her
with his intermittent talk ; but she was
apparently far more interested in her own
various occupations. She sketched with
remarkable industry, when the ship lay
motionless before some little town, which
furnished a sharp contrast of light and
shadow, a tower, a minaret, a palm-tree,
or little bits of bright colour, where the
natives lay or lounged on the low wall

by the sea. And when there was nothing
to paint, she produced a volume of
the works of Goethe, and commanded Mr
Langdon not to talk. And one day, when
she was tired of reading, she appeared on
deck with a guitar ; and it was only after
a full hour given to the most diligent practising
of exercises that she consented to playa
little air, and to sing therewith a little
song, which she sang with a very sweet
fresh voice, and a simplicity which set
Dick wondering. He wondered if this
simplicity were not a form of consummate
artfulness, a superfine affectation. He wondered
if women could be at once so clever
and so simple. This simplicity agreed well
enough with the frankness of her speech,
and the calm unabashed looks with which
she met the eyes of men ; but Dick found
it hard to reconcile this same simplicity
with her experiences of fashionable society,
and even more with her undoubted cleverness.

He felt sure of her cleverness ; she
must have seen and heard so much of the
world; how then could her simplicity be
genuine'? And yet he did not like to
decide that she was affected. He wondered
if women were not wholly different from
men. Of course he had heard often enough
that one must expect contradictory qualities
in a woman ; but he had always put
this down as part of the nonsense that men
talk about women. However, no man had
ever puzzled him, as this girl puzzled him.
He could not help wondering about her,
though he often told himself that it was
a ridiculous waste of time.

One evening after dinner when Mr Hole
and Ossie were playing chess, Dick
left them and went on deck. When he
reached the upper air, he stood still amazed
by the loveliness of this mid-May night.
The moon was almost full ; and it seemed
to fill the world with such softness and

splendour, that it was hard to believe that
this was the same moon, which gleamed so
cold and pale from flying clouds in England
far away. AVide and tremulous the great
path of light lay on the dark silent sea ;
and through the silence and the twilight
of the enchanted hour the ship travelled
steadily forward. It seemed in harmony
with the spirit of the time that the faint
notes of the guitar came softly to where
the young man stood. Dick went forward
with a slight laugh at his own feeling for
the beauty of the night. Whether she had
heard the laugh or obeyed the caprice of
the moment, Miss Holcroft received the
young man, who came between her and the
moonlight, with a reproachful look ; and
her voice was almost petulant as she said, —
I cannot play when you come ; you paralyse
me." Dick found nothing better to
say than that he was awfully sorry.
'' Yes," she continued ; " you are so critical."

No, no," said lie ; '' at least not too
critical, I hope. I promise not to criticise
your playing, if you will play for me."

"You are very observant; and very
critical; and you "

"Do play something."

And you hate talking about yourself,"
she said, well pleased to give an unexpected
ending to her sentence.

Dick laughed, but he felt himself flush ;
he felt that she was not far from the truth ;
she was certainly clever. *^ There are so
many better things to talk about," he said
lightly.

She looked up at him, as he leaned
against the ship's side, but she could not see
his face, which was in deep shadow. '' Is
that what you really think ? " she asked.
I did not know that you were so humble."

*' I hope I haven't been offensively arrogant
— but you are making me talk about
myself after all. How clever you are ! "

I wish I were clever," she said, looking
across the sea with wide-open eyes. " It
makes me so mad when men call women
clever. They either mean that we have
got some poor little accomplishments — like
twanging the guitar for instance "

Do twang the guitar ! '' said Dick, as
she paused.

Or else it means that we are designing,
and horrid," she continued.

Something in Dick's thoughts made him
slow with an emphatic denial.

*' Perhaps that is what you think of
me'' she said ; she looked at him with the
pouting lip and the pretty mutinous expression.


He was thinking at the moment that
she looked like an elf in that strange light,
so delicate fair and young ; as if she might
melt into the night, when the moon withdrew
herself from the eyes of men ; but for
all her elfin charm her words jarred on him.

He did not like her to say such things.
He did not flatter himself that she spoke
more freely to him than to other men ; and
he was not pleased to fancy her demanding,
what some other chance acquaintance
thought of her. Then he told himself that
it was no business of his; he asked himself
why he should care how this girl spoke
to men ; and as there was clearly no reason
to be found, he convinced himself that of
course he did not care.

Meanwhile Miss Holcroft seemed to have
forgotten that her last speech required an
indignant denial. She was looking across
the silent waveless sea, and humming softly
to herself. Presently she began to touch
the guitar again ; and at last to a simple
accompaniment she began to sing low-voiced
a little German song. There seemed
to her only hearer a tenderness such as he
had never noticed in a song before.

What does it mean ? " he asked, when

he had waited a little while in silence
hoping for more, and no more came.

I will sing it in English," she said ; '* a
friend of mine translated it for me."

Dick wondered who this friend was, who
could make verses for her. He had never
made a verse in his life. Then the girl
sang to the same soft accompaniment —

Like to a perfect flower,

Pure, holy, fair thou art ;
I look on thee, and sadness

Sinks down into my heart.

I feel that I must be laying

My hands upon thy hair,
And praying God he would keep thee

So holy, pure, and fair.

She sang scarcely above her breath ; it
seemed as if she rather spoke than sang
the words, but very sweetly and clearly.
The softness of the wonderful night, the
moonlight in the air and on the water,
seemed to find a voice in the simple music.
As Dick looked down on the girl, who herself

looked so delicate flowerlike in the
mysterious air, a strange tenderness possessed
him. He would like to guard this
lovely creature, who looked a child, from
all taint of worldliness. He clean forgot
that but a few minutes before he had convinced
himself that he did not care how
she spoke to men. At the moment he
could almost have prayed, that she too
might keep the innocence and holiness of
childhood. But for a sound instinct, he
too might have laid his hand upon that
soft brown hair.

At last Dick Hartland roused himself
from a mood unprecedented in his career.
He felt that he must say something to break
the absolute silence. It was with a change
of tone, which was too abrupt, that he
asked — " Did your friend Goethe write
the verses ? "

"No," she said, *' or I should not like
them so much. I hate Goethe." She

spoke the more strongly for his abruptness ;
she was quick to feel slight variations of
tone or manner. Dick laughed at her uncompromising
declaration. " How cynically
you laugh ! " she said.

*^ No, no," said Dick ; " nobody ever
called me cynical. I hate cynicism."

She looked seaward again and was silent
for a time. Then she said seriously, and
with a slow emphatic nod of her head,
"Some day you will discover that you
are profoundly cynical about women."

Women ! women 1 " said Dick ; "I
begin to think that women are the most
puzzling things in the world."

Your friend Goethe made a study of
them," she said ; " and that's why I don't
like him. He did not mind hurting them,
if he amused himself ; and he talked about
improving himself. He looked down on
them, like stepping - stones in a stream ;
he went away dry-shod himself, and there

were they left behind, and — and he talked
about self culture, and it was nothing but
flirtation." She laughed and nodded decisively,
as if she triumphed in this neat
conclusion to her little speech.

Dick laughed too. " I don't know much
about Goethe," he said ; " but don't you
suppose there were two sides to the question
? " This was a favourite phrase of
Mr Hartland. "Perhaps these German
girls " he began again.

No," she said, interrupting him ; " it was
flirtation. Are you a flirt Mr Hartland ? "

This question came to the young man
with a shock, which was extremely unpleasant.
He said nothing, but he looked
down darkly, as if he would try to read
her face, which was uncertain in the growing
dusk. Though he could not distinguish
her expression, he had an instinctive
belief that there was demure amusement
in her eyes and mouth. He had very

seldom been laughed at ; it seemed absurd
that this quick-witted young lady should
turn him into ridicule. So he answered
with his lightest manner, and reminded her
that she had found out how unwilling he
was to talk about himself. " Wasn't it
you' he asked, '^ who said that you had
come abroad to improve yourself? What
do young ladies mean by self-culture ? Do
you gain much information from my cousin
Ossie for instance ? "

Mr Langdon is charming," she said
with a meditative air ; " he is very un-english."


'thank you," said Dick. 'anyway I
am glad he persuaded you to come on to
Constantinople."

Miss Holcroft turned quickly to him.
Mr Hartland," she began, and then she
paused as if she were too astonished to goon.
" Do you really think," she said at
last, " that we followed you 1 " As he

hesitated, she went on quickly. " We had
just heard' she said, "from our legation
that it was safe to go to Constantinople,
and we told your cousin that we were
going ; and then he told us that you were
going too ; and he said the prettiest things,
and — Mr Hartland, you have given
yourself away. I had no idea of the vanity
of Englishmen''

Dick felt that he had said the wrong
thing. He did not see that there was anything
offensive in his speech, but he felt
that she saw it. Though she was half
laughing as she spoke, she was a little
indignant too. Dick made haste to remind
her that at least he had not flattered
himself, that he had anything to do with
her decision ; but Miss Holcroft seemed
not to heed his words. She had risen,
and was listening with the pretty head, of
which by this time only the outline was
visible, turned away from him.

"Kitty!" called Mr Holcroft, and his
tall form appeared through the growing
darkness. She went to her father.

Good-night ! " said Dick with great
politeness.

'' Good-night," she said with a little bow,
as she took her father's arm.

"Good-night," cried Mr Holcroft pleasantly,
as he was led away.

CHAPTER Xxxi

When Dick woke the next morning in his
narrow bed, there was no sound of machinery
in his ears, but only the voice of Mr
Holcroft calling blithely in the passage.
After a knock at the door the fresh clean-shaved
face appeared, as the tall gentleman
stooped in the doorway. *' Hurry up,"
he said, " and come and coffee. The Captain
goes ashore in less than an hour and
has asked the pleasure of our company."
All right," said Dick ; " where are we ? "
*' At Rhodes," he answered, '' in the
shadow of the world - renowned Colossus."
It was with no expectation of seeing
that Ions: lost wonder of the world, that

Dick made haste to dress himself. He
was thinking rather of the girl, who had
sung in the moonlight ; he was wondering
in what mood he should find her. He felt
a slight pleasurable excitement at the
thought of seeing her again, and making
his peace, as he was sure he should make
it, easily enough.

Miss Holcroft was very quiet and demure.
She sat very close to her father
in the boat ; she looked and listened, but
scarcely spoke a word. Her father was in
the gayest humour, as glad to go ashore asa
midshipman on a holiday. It was a delightful
morning, with all the freshness still
in the air and a taste of the sea, though
the hot sun was rising over the trees, and
the shadows of the square white houses lay
black upon the ground. But Mr Holcroft's
pleasure did not reach its height till he
came to the top of the famous Street of
the Knights. There he stood still, and

VOL. II. M

after a time he waved one long arm, and
pointed, and looked at his companions.
Why in thunder," he began slowly and
emphatically, 'did nobody at home tell
me of this thing 1 " Though the question
was indignant, he smiled while he asked
it, and showed all his even white teeth.
"That is worth coming all the way to
see," he continued. "That street leads
straight into the Middle Ages ; that is the
greatest street in the world."

As he looked round cheerfully for acquiescence,
his daughter met his eye demurely
and murmured, — " Beacon Street ? "

Mr Holcroft laughed aloud. " Well," he
said, " this is older ; " and then possessed
by a happy thought, he added, *sit right
down and make me a drawing."

She looked at him with pretended astonishment
at his arbitrary tone, and then she
smiled too. '' I must sketch it from the
other end," she said. So they walked down

the slope ; and Dick, who had been carrying
the camp-stool and sketch-book, as a
sort of mute apology for his clumsy speech
of the evening before, placed them where he
was bidden. He was thinking what a perfect
understanding there was between father
and daughter, and that she never looked so
pretty as when she looked at her father.
While he was thinking of something pleasant
to say, Ossie slipped by his elbow and
bent over the sketch, which was already begun.
At the same time Mr Holcroft, whose
interest in the place had by no means
abated, laid a long hand on Dick's shoulder,
and began to push him up the slope again,
pointing out to him with the same emphasis
the unique charm of the street.
The street is steep and narrow, and on
either hand the dark Gothic buildings rise
continuous; and in one place an arch is
thrown across it, a mysterious passage-way
between two grim dwellings. On the old

brown walls the knightly coats of arms are
clear, as if they had been sharply chiselled
yesterday; for in that air the decay of stone
is slow, nor has the Turk desire of any
change. Indeed the only sign of Turkish
rule are two or three light trellised
windows thrust through the sober walls.
** Those old knights might be in these
houses now," said Mr Holcroft beaming
on them impartially, and pressing Dick's
shoulder with his strong fingers; but at
the moment the young man's eyes had
wandered down the narrow street, to where
another young man leaned over a girl's
drawing with the sunshine on his hair.
For now the Eastern sun was charming
the ancient street from its sobriety; and
the sketcher found employment for her
swain by making him hold her large white
umbrella over her dainty head. In spite
of the just and emphatic observations of
Mr Holcroft, it is to be feared that the

peculiar charm of this old knightly street,
so serious and dignified in an island full of
brightness and blossom, was not more than
half apparent to the eyes and mind of Mr
Richard Hartland.

At last, after many wandering glances
Dick looked once more, and saw that
Miss Holcroft had left her place and was
coming up the street, while Ossie stood
alone by the empty camp-stool. As the
girl came near, he saw that the faint rose
of her cheek was heightened, and her eyes
were bright. She put her hand on her
father's arm, and for a moment leaned
against his shoulder, as she put her sketch
into his hand. Mr Holcroft looked at the
little work critically ; and then he passed
it on to Dick without a word, but with a
smile full of unbidden pride. Slight as it
was, the little sketch had caught the spirit
of the place ; and the young man thought
yet once again, how clever this girl was.

As they stood there together, and Ossie
came towards the group with the campstool
hanging from a listless hand, they
were aware of a French sailor hurrying
with much animation. He came to tell
them that the captain had found no addition
to his cargo, and was already getting
up steam.

"Ask your captain to wait till I bring
along this street. I shall take it home, and
set it up on the Common." Mr Holcroft
spoke gravely, but as he used his own
language, the sailor only turned his brown
face with inquiry and with eyes and earrings
twinkling, and then with a courteous
bow led the way to the boat.

It was in the evening of the same day,
when they were steaming steadily forward
over the dreaming sea, that Dick saw Ossie
coming to him with an air most woe-begone.
This long face always meant that Mr Lang-don
needed consolation ; but now the smile,

with which his cousin always met it, came
less readily than usual. Ossie had come to
confess a most unlucky error. As he was
leaning over Miss Holcroft's sketch that
morning, he had said something — better
left unsaid ; and she had been much
offended. Then Dick remembered the look
of her face, as she had come to her father.
Ossie also was offended — mightily offended.
He could not understand it ; the fatal something
was absolutely nothing; it was too
absurd of her to object to it. " It's the
sort of thing," he said with a growing
sense of injury, " that I've said to lots of
girls ; and she was so jolly ; I never
dreamt of her minding ; I've said that
sort of thing to awfully nice girls who
ain't a bit fast."

I know you think you may say anything
to women," said Dick severely.

But this wasn't anything. I'll tell you
what I said."

I don't care what you said."

Ossie looked at his cousin pathetically.
'what did she say 1 " asked Dick after
a pause.

Nothing. She just got up and went
away ; and now she's awfully polite."

"It's probably all right."

*' AYhat do you mean by all right ? "
asked Ossie in an injured tone.

"It's just as well that you shouldn't be
on such intimate terms with — with her."

Do you mean that you don't think shea
nice girl ? "

Certainly not," said Dick shortly ; " of
course I mean nothing of the kind."

"Very well then " began the other

slowly ; but by this time Dick was possessed
with his common sense of responsibility
for his cousin, and he made haste to
say what he thought he ought to say,
though he liked it very little.

Of course a girl may be perfectly nice,"

he said, " and all that, and well behaved,
and yet be frivolous and flirtations and —
and in fact — but of course it can't do you
any harm."

The speech was not a model of clearness,
but it seemed to convey a meaning to the
other young man, though he kept silence
for a time, and only bit his thumb.
At last he said with unusual decision,
She ain t frivolous." Dick's short laugh
expressed a feeling that Mr Langdon
measured frivolity by a peculiar standard.
*' She shocks you," said Ossie ; 'she does
it on purpose." Dick looked quickly and
keenly at his cousin, who continued not
without secret amusement, — "She told me
so ; she said it was great fun to shock you.
She has taken no end of trouble to remember
the slang of some Yankee college ; and
that's why she says things are ' tony ' and
that ' they take the cake,' and all that.
She says that you think that all girls

should be exactly like English girls. She
says that you are insular — *just as insular
as you can be ' is what she says."

Dick was half amused and half annoyed.
*' Anyway you may leave me out of the
question," he said ; '* and tomorrow morning
you've got to apologise, and to mind
what you say for the future."

"But I don't understand it. If an
English girl was as jolly and friendly,
one might say anything to her."

She isn't English — and it doesn't
matter whether you understand it or not."

It's all very well for you ; but just
think of me. Think what a difference it
makes to me."

What do you mean ? " asked Dick impatiently
; '^ what can it really matter to
you whether she snubs you a little or
not'

*' Fm awfully hard hit," said Ossie
gloomily.

Here was a most perplexing person.
Even Dick, who was fortunate in a honos
and varied experience of his cousin, was
amazed at this last declaration. Though

o

he had observed a series of scenes which
he took to be parts of a comedy of mild
flirtation, he had had no fear of any serious
complications. He had quietly made up
his mind to keep an eye on Ossie, and to
pull him up short if it should ever be
necessary. And now under his watchful
eye and unrestrained by his guiding hand
the contradictory youth had taken the
plunge, and was already in deep water. It
was necessary to drag him out. Dick
thought that he must take strong measures.
He threatened to abandon the delinquent
; " It's no business of mine," he
said.

"No, I suppose not," said the other
mournfully.

*' I don't even pretend to know," continued

Dick, '^ whether you are a freeman
; whether you are engaged to Miss
Bond or not. What earthly right have
you to go falling in love all over the
place ? "

Perhaps this question was scarcely consonant
with the previous declaration of
neutrality. Certain it is that, in spite of
its indignant tone, Ossie seemed to take
heart of grace from it.

*' But I can't help it," he said plaintively.

You ought to help it. It's preposterous
to go falling in love with every girl you
see."

*' I know it's weak," acknowledged Ossie ;
"but I can't help it. You know I don't
make any pretences." In this speech there
was a slight flavour of satisfaction with
his moral humility, which drove Dick to
say with unnecessary vehemence that he
devoutly wished that he would pretend to
something. Ossie shook his head gravely :

"It's a great misfortune to be made like
me," he said; "I don t pretend to strength,
or pluck, or anything. I'm a poor creature,
and I know it."

*' You needn't be, if you didn't like," said
Dick, who had heard this sort of thing some
thousand times already ; " it's all your confounded
laziness."

But Ossie only shook his head again, and
sighed deeply.

During the rest of their coasting voyage
it was but natural that Dick should sometimes
regard his cousin with much uneasiness
; and yet for the most part he felt no
great anxiety. He had a comfortable confidence
in Ossie's gift of falling on his legs,
and in the ease of his changes. He thought
it likely that they would meet some European
ladies at Pera ; and, if there were none
of these, he thought that Mr Langdon's
fancy would be safely diverted by some
veiled and happily unapproachable beauty

of Stamboul. As for Miss Holcroft, Dick
felt more and more strongly that she would
take care of herself. He was glad that
she knew how to keep Ossie within bounds.
Every day he placed more confidence in
the theory, that she regarded young menas
created for the amusement of her idle
hours ; while her serious interest was reserved
for the improvement of herself.
She read her German books, she played on
her guitar, she made many sketches ; and
these young men might look or listen, if
they wished. If she so thoroughly forgot
Ossie's indiscretion, that she was ready to
laugh with him, and perhaps at him a little,
she treated Dick more seriously. She asked
him questions about England, and about
English poets and painters, of whom she
seemed to know more than he. He began
to think that a friendship with a clever
girl was one of the pleasantness things in

life ; he almost forgot those looks of hers
which had perplexed him in the first days.
And now the golden hours on the summer
sea were soon to be of the past. The travellers
were borne by islands of exquisite clear
outline and soft splendid colour — islands
which, as the sun sank into the illumined
water, seemed almost transparent, pale, luminous,
violet beside the glow. At Smyrna
they were obliged to say good-bye to the
ship, in which they had enjoyed so prosperous
a voyage, and to go on board of another
and a larger steamer, which had already
many passengers. And so the peculiar
charm was gone, and they all looked forward
to the end. And one morning they awoke,
and found the steamer at rest ; and when
they met on deck, there were roofs and
slender minarets close to them, the ancient
cypresses of the Seraglio gardens, and the
dome of Saint Sophia eminent in the cool

clear light of dawn. There close beside
them in the centre of the ancient city big
ships lay on the deep silent waters of the
Golden Horn, and the sharp-pointed light
caiques ruffled the quiet surface as they
darted here and there.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

It was very hot in Constantinople, hotter
perhaps in the European hotels of Pera
than in the dark narrow alleys of Tambour.
The travellers were eao;er to leave
the city and go in search of the cool breezes
of the Bosphorus. After the first great
sight of the place from shipboard the visiting
of mosques and treasuries seemed tame
enough ; and when they had peeped into the
lovely Mosque of St Sophia, which was but
just purified from fevers and fever-stricken
fugitives, they would have gone at once,
had not Mr Holcroft displayed an unexpected
interest in military matters. He
was the more bent on visiting the Turkish

VOL. II. N

troops, who were busily strengthening their
positions around the city, because among
the letters which he carried there was one
to an officer who held an important command.
Armed with this he was confident
that he would ride through the Turkish
lines as freely as if he were the Sultan,
and he asked Dick and Ossie to accompany
him as a picked body-guard. So it was
agreed that they should delay their departure
for Buyuk Dere, which they had
chosen as their resting-place on the Bosphorus,
for at least a day.

As they were riding up the open downs,
Mr Holcroft began to exhibit unusual excitement.
He expressed unbounded admiration
for the soldiers whom they met —
the short Turkish regulars, with honest
faces of a brick-dust colour, and broad
square shoulders which seemed built to
carry cannon. He pointed to them with a
beaming countenance as examples of what

men could be, who never saw money and
were paid for their fighting with a handful
of rice ; and when he smiled upon
them, they grinned at him with a childlike
simplicity. Indeed so simple is the
nature of the Turk, while he has nota
penny, and so friendly was the appearance
of the American, that all the sentries
after a brief colloquy with their Greek
guide, who combined astounding volubility
with prompt invention, allowed the travellers
to pass. Thus it happened that after
riding for some miles over open downs — as
open and familiar as the downs of Sussex —
they came to the very key of the Turkish
position, where under a screen of interwoven
boughs the generals were holding a
council of war ; and on the very next line
of hills, white specks against the sky, were
Russian tents. Mr Holcroft grasped the
situation in a moment. He began eagerly
to point out how strong was this Turkish

position ; how easily on the other hand
the Russians, if they wished, might break
the truce and bring on a battle as if by
accident ; how much harder they would
find the capture of the city, than they
would have found it a month ago. He
was in the full tide of explanation, when
he was interrupted by the approach of the
officer, to whom the guide had carried the
letter of introduction. Polite as he was,
the distinguished soldier could not help
showing that he was by no means pleased
to see them there. He shrugged his shoulders,
as he spoke of the sentries ; and he
gave Mr Holcroft so cordial an invitation
to visit him on the next day at his headquarters,
which were a mile or two nearer
the city, that it was abundantly clear that
he would make no effort to detain them
at the present time. So after mutual
apologies the travellers turned their horses'
heads eastward, and the officer after repeating

his invitation to the American,
returned to his consultation under the
woven branches.

As they rode homeward, Dick expressed
his surprise at Mr Holcroft's knowledge of
military affairs ; but he was a good deal
more surprised to learn that the American
had himself seen service.

You had not heard of our war perhaps
? " asked Mr Holcroft politely. Dick
resented the imputation ; but he could not
help saying in answer that he had also
heard of a transatlantic fondness for military
titles.

Many of us dropped them," said Mr Hole
gravely, " when the fighting was done.
For my part," he continued more gaily,
I had had more than enough. I did not
like it ; but it's a great country and worth
fighting for — in spite of the politicians and
the taxes. When you visit me in Beacon
Street, you will see a picture of me in full

uniform, and with half a horse. It was
done to gratify the feminine vanity of my
little girl. It is said to be simply splendid ;
it bears a striking resemblance to Prince
Joachim Murat." When they had ridden
a little farther — " I take it you think mea
bad American' he said ; *' but I am not.
I trust the sense of our people, when they
care enough. When they commence to
care about a thing, that thing has got to
be put right. As to politicians, I don't
know that ours are much worse than other
people's. I expect you wouldn't find better
fellows than these Turkish soldiers ; but
their Pashas would sell them, and each
other, and the Mosque of St Sophia, and
throw the Sultan in for nothing. Andover
yonder at San Stephen there must be
many stolid fellows ready to die for their
Slavonic kinsmen or their holy Czar ; but
I take it thatcher generals are pocketing
the forage money, and that their diplomatists

are scheming for each other's shoes,
as well as for the finest harbour in the
world."

"Of course there's right on both sides,"
said Dick, " and wrong too. I don't love
the Russians as a lot ; but after all they
move, and the others can't ; it's the difference
between a future and a past — between
life and death."

You desperate young Britons," said Mr
Holcroft smiling, "must have life in some
shape."

Dick goes in tremendously for politics,"
observed Ossie, who was tired of silence.

The American turned in his saddle and
regarded Dick with friendly interest. " If
you must have them," he said, " I hope you
will take them lightly ; and that they won't
leave any bad after-effects."

They left their horses at the point of the
Golden Horn ; and then reclining in the
light caujue they sped quickly down the

great curve of the majestic harbour; and
they went ashore at the long rickety bridge
of boats, whereon all day the most varied
population in the world pass, most of them
for no reason, from Stamboul to Pera and
from Pera to Tambour There is always a
crowd on the bridge, and there may be seen
every colour, which nature and weather can
paint on the human countenance, or dye
and time give to the multiform clothing of
mankind. Mr Holcroft could never see
this bridge without stopping to look and
to moralise ; and he only turned from it
now, when he found that he was pointing
out its superiority to all other bridges for
the sole benefit of a couple of swarthy Bulgarian
porters. Then he smiled broadly
upon this stolid audience, and followed
Dick and Ossie up the steep street of
Pera.

As they came under the shadow of the
hotel, a rose fell at their feet, and looking

up they saw Miss Holcroft in the balcony.
Dick's first thought was that the action
was pretty and the girl charming ; but the
next moment he was accusing her of having
planned this pretty greeting, of assuming
an attractive attitude. He did not like
her to show herself to the open street ; it
seemed bold, and excited in him a moment's
admiration of the veils and mufflers of the
East. And yet when this young lady of
the West came to meet them with all her
confidence and modesty, the young Englishman's
little criticisms lay down and died
before her natural charm. He clean forgot
that he had ever been critical, and he was
only eager to please. And so in obedience
to a just instinct he began to speak of her
father, and to express his surprise again
that he had fought, and had never mentioned
it.

And you didn't know it ! " she exclaimed
— " why, he fought splendidly. I

must show you the account of his great
charge."

"Kitty!" said Mr Holcroft; but his
daughter shook her head at him. "You
would like to see it, wouldn't you ? " she
said to Dick.

"I should like to see it awfully," said
Dick who found himself staring at her.
Indeed he was delighted with her beauty
and her sweet natural enthusiasm.

"I have often told her," said Mr Hole
sadly, "that I did not charge alone.
There were a number of other persons
implicated."

They never would have gone without
you'' she said with her little chin in air
and her eyes sparkling.

"If they had gone without me," he remarked
slowly, " I expect that I should
have been drummed out, and should have
been sent home in disgrace."

"Don't, papa," she cried imperiously.

Then with both hands on her father's arm
as if she would control the tall gentleman
by force, with her delicate face flushed with
admiration of him, and her eyes still raised
to his, she said to Dick — '* Isn't he perfectly
horrid ? He never will be serious ;
but he can't help being a hero."

'' Kitty ! Oh ! " The second, exclamation
was much sharper than the first, for his
daughter had pinched the arm to which
she clung.

"Did you ever see such a little tyrant ? "
asked Mr Holcroft with a voice full of love
and pride. This question was directed
to Dick, but for a moment he forgot to
answer. He was seldom so unready. When
it was time to go, he forgot to drop
her hand as quickly as usual ; and again
and again that evening there came back to
him a memory of her sweet serious eyes.
Nor did this strange effect pass with the
passing hour. During the whole of the

next day Dick Hartland was in a thoughtful
mood, and Mr Osbert Langdon yawned
often in his company.

It was agreed that jNIr Holcroft should
ride alone to make his visit at Headquarters
; and that his English friends
should go up the Bosphorus on one of the
little steamers, and should secure rooms at
Buyuk Dere for themselves, and for the
Holcrofts who would follow them on the
next morning. So the two friends made
their little journey in the cool of the
evening, and engaged the necessary rooms ;
and, when Ossie had fallen asleep after
dinner, Dick sat by the open window and
allowed his thoughts to wander in a very
idle manner. But for all their liberty his
thoughts would not wander far ; they
returned wilfully to one object. It was
a nio[ht of stars and of lights far below
upon the waters, and of shadowy sweet
coasts, which made the watcher wonder

if they could be half so beautiful under
the morrow's sun. Perhaps it was the
influence of the place and of the hour,
which made the energetic young Englishman
so dreamy. The perfume of unseen
roses came in to him ; they reminded him
of the girl who would come on the
morrow. He thought of the soft brown
hair ; of the grave eyes which he had
seen dien he held her hand at parting ;
of the pouting of the lips with their arch
defiance, which he had noticed so often.
It was strange how clearly he could see
this girls face, though it was miles away.
He leaned his cheek against his arm and
gave himself to dreaming; he smiled into
the dusk not knowing that he smiled ; nor
did he wake from his unusual reverie,
until he found his lips murmuring a name.
Then he stood up with a warm blush on his
boyish cheek, and began to laugh at himself.
'' AVhat's this 1 " he asked ; " what's

coming to me ? It's all nonsense ; this
comes of mooning at a window '' — and he
laughed ai^ain. And then he leaned out
once more into the fragrant night ; and
just to show that he dared to play with
these idle fancies, which of course meant
nothing, he whispered the name again as
tenderly as he could. "Kitty'' he whispered
; it was a comical little name, he
thought, when spoken sentimentally.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

Dick woke on the next mornings with
a feeling of expectation which he could
not explain. When it suddenly occurred
to him that all this was because a girl
was coming, whom he had not seen for a
day, he laughed aloud at his folly. It
seemed absurd that he of all men should
be so dependent on his friends; but then
he reminded himself that he was far from
home and in a strange land ; this seemed
a good enough explanation, or at least
good enough to last till breakfast was
done. To breakfast Ossie came yawning,
and after fortifying himself with coffee
expressed an intention of dropping down

to Pera and telling the Holcrofts that
their rooms were ready. He set up this
resolution for Dick to knock down, and
he was faintly disappointed when it was
met with the advice to go before the sun
grew hot. At this he probably would
have abandoned the design, had not his
friend announced that he should accompany
him as far as Therapia and ask at
the Embassy for letters. Thereupon, ashe
did not feel energetic enough for opposition,
he allowed himself to be started.

When Dick had returned with his letters,
he carried them to the window-seat, where
he had sat the night before ; but, when he
was there, he forgot to read, for he found
there the same thoughts, which had half
pleased and half perplexed him in the
evening. The place and the very attitude,
in which he leaned upon the striped divan,
seemed to recall the fancies, which he had
put away with laughter. Even when he

had opened his letters, he read some sentences
twice or thrice with small understanding,
and his eyes would wander to the
outer air. Close to him, wreathed about
the light balcony, great yellow roses were
liberal in the light ; and the awning, which
fell almost to touch them, was petulant in
the fickle air, which seemed to touch Dick's
eyes and lips with a caress. Below him
was a garden of more roses and sweet
shrubs ; and beyond that and far below he
could see the water ruffled now and then
by a light breeze, and in the pauses oily
calm. With a great swing this way and
a back swing that, the Bosphorus sweeps
down from the Black Sea like a strong
river ; and there was small progress to be
made against it with the fickle breeze of
that morning. In the bays close under
either shore ships from all lands lay idle;
and only one was moving slowly with all
sail set against the heavy stream.

VOL. II.

Now, though Dick's eyes would wander
to the light without and his thoughts stray
from the reading, the letters, which he had
found at Therapia, were not without interest.
First he opened his mother's, and read it in
leisurely fashion, pleasing himself in the
intervals of his day-dream with her good
report of all things at home. When he
reached the postscript, he was roused to a
keener interest ; for in the postscript she
had compressed the important news that
Mr Kirby was to contest a county at the
next election, and was most anxious that
his young cousin should come home, and
look after Kedgate. Dick turned from his
mother's neat characters to the boldly
straggling direction of his more eminent
relative. Mr Kirby had written his letter
in the House of Commons, while he was
waiting for a division ; a few of his weighty,
yet familiar sentences covered the ample
sheet. He enjoined secrecy, and named his

county. Then he wrote that of course Dick
ought to succeed him at Redgate ; that his
own popularity with the town and the Hart-land
influence ought to make it a certainty;
that in these days however nothing was
safe without nursing ; that Dick should
come back at once and nurse the borough.
Dick's first feeling was that the borough
might wait, that there were better things
in life than boroughs. He was smiling, ashe
put the letter in his pocket for future
consideration ; and he smiled with a livelier
expectation as he opened the third epistle.
This had been written by Fabian Deane
within two days after his parting from his
friends at Damascus ; it is even probable
that it had travelled in the same boat
which had carried them to Smyrna ; if soit
is almost strange that it had not made
its presence felt, — so explosive were its
contents. Some forty fleeting hours had
produced a revolution ; and Mr Cavendish

Tisley, who had been the force to move the
Eastern world, was now described in terms
which would have libelled the initiative of
a feather-bed.

Not another night," wrote Fabian,
will I spend under this impostor's 
roof. He is the Arch Impostor ;
a wind-bag blown up with conceit and old
phrases ; a bloated centipede, with fifty
legs going each way ; silent as a mummy
and as likely to do anything useful ; a
self-important pudding. I wish I could
describe him, but the fellow is such a humbug
that he beggars description ; and what
he does crawling between heaven and earth
is more than I can make out, unless he is
spared for the sake of his good little Epis-
copal-close wife, who actually makes herself
believe in this fantastic stuffed target, whom
the poor little dear must have sworn to love
and to obey ! Talking of which, where are
the Holcrofts 1 And when shall you be in

England? Write to me there, for I am
going home by the shortest possible way
and must find something to do. ' Must ' is
the word ! Contemplation of this monstrous
C. T. has made useful activity the
first necessity of life. Come home too like
the wise boy you always were ! — Yours as
ever, Fabian Deane''

"Talking of which, where are the Hole
? " said Dick to himself, as he folded
his friend's letter. Nothing else in the
letter had surprised him. He saw nothing
unprecedented in Mr Deane's rapid flight
from profound veneration to absolute contempt
; and it seemed quite natural that no
reason should be given for the change.
For his own part he had decided long ago
that little was to be gained from Mr Cavendish
Tisley ; and the sight of Russian
officers walking the streets of Pera in conspicuous
uniforms had brought home to

him the very unsettled condition of the
Turkish empire so vividly, that he had
postponed all question of buying land in
Palestine till such time as man might
know, what power would be responsible for
order there. '' Talking of which, where
are the Holcrofts ? " Dick repeated to himself.
That was the sentence which struck
him. *' Talking of what ? " he asked himself.
'come home too like the wise boy
you always were ! " What did he mean ?
Why was it wise to go home just now ?
He was rather annoyed with Fabian for
not being more explicit. He laughed as he
thought that his friend had spoken plainly
enough about the unfortunate Cavendish ;
but though he laughed, he was rather vexed.
The suggestion of going home made him
look again at his mother's letter ; and now
he seemed to read between the lines a constant
wish that he would come home to her.
She had been careful never to urge him to

return, since he went away ; and it was
hard, to tell why this last letter seemed to
breathe a different spirit. She had written
that Mr Kirby said that he ought to come
back to the Borough; but as he read, he
felt that a stronger influence was on him
than that of Mr Kirby, or his Borough. If
he did go home now, it would be for his
mother's sake. He told himself that there
was no other reason, which should make
him put a sudden end to his wandering.
At least there was no immediate hurry ;
he would take time to decide ; this was
only wise. Besides he should like to know
what these other people were going to do.
*' Talking of which, where are the Hole
Dick said to himself that there
was nobody like Fabian for finding a mare's
nest. He got up, and stood in the open window
drumming on the pane with impatient
fingers. The door opened behind him.
Without doubt here they were ; here were

the Holcrofts. He turned to greet them
with a face bright with welcome ; but
there was nobody but Ossie — and Ossie in
bis most melancholy mood.

"Where are they ? " asked Dick.

They ain't coming," answered Ossie resentfully.


Not coming I Why not ? "

You needn't abuse me about it. It isn't
my fault."

But what did she say '? Didn't she
give any reason 1 " It is worthy of note
that it did not occur at any moment to
either young man, that the change of plans
might have been due to Mr Holcroft.

No," said Ossie ; " she didn't give any
reason. She was just as jolly as usual.
She said sbe hadn't half done the Bazaar ;
and that she couldn't live without shopping.
She wanted me to tell you particularly
that she couldn't live without shopping.
I suppose you've offended her about

something." He paused for an answer, but,
as Dick said nothing, he continued — " She
said that in America girls didn't follow
young men ; she looked most awfully
cheeky as she said it ; she's the j oldest girl
I ever saw ; I suppose there's nothing to do
here ; it seems a dull sort of place."

Dick was looking down to the waters of
the Bosphorus and the steep shore opposite ;
and he seemed in no harry to defend it
from the charge of dulness. Somehow its
beauty had gone, and left only its loneliness.
There was no sound in the hot air ;
the one ship, which had been trying to
move against the stream, had given up the
effort and dropped anchor under the shelter
of the shore. Dick remembered that unlucky
speech of his, in which he had seemed
to imply that her presence on board the
French boat was in some way due to theirs.
This declaration of hers about American
girls showed that she had not forgotten it.

He supposed that this trick, which she
had played them, delighted her as a little
piece of vengeance. Of course she expected
them to appear penitent on the morrow ;
she wanted this petty proof of her power ;
after all she was no more than a spoiled
child, capricious and vain ; after all she
was nothing better than a little flirt.

Dick's meditations were interrupted by
his cousin, who had dropped into that comfortable
chair in which he had slept away
some hours of the previous evening.

'' I can't make out why you ain't awfully
in love with her," said Ossie. Dick did
not turn ; he stared straight out into the
sunlight, but he felt the blood tino-lino^ in
his ears. "She don't care a button forme
— worse luck ! " said Ossie a little later.

'' Nor for me," said Dick shortly ; " don't
talk such nonsense."

Mr Langdon, who was regarding his own
boots with tender interest, began to hum.

"Dickie," he observed at last more cheerfully,
" you are a clod ; you've no heart ;
you never had any."
'' That's all right."

o

'^ If I were you, I would marry this girl
tomorrow."

"And what reason have you to suppose,
you blooming idiot, that she would look at
me ? " Though this question was unmistakably
directed at the gentleman in the
arm - chair, Dick still looked out of the
window intently as if he were watching
a procession.

My dear Dick," said Ossie with temper
unruffled by hard names, and his best air
of worldly wisdom, — " My dear Dickie,
she knows all about you."

"Oh does she!"

Of course she does. She has asked me
hundreds of questions about you, and your
position, and your property, and all that."

"Oh I"

Don't you know that all these American
girls are dying to marry Englishmen
with good position. Position — that's what
they care about — and a park. Parks are
the things for these American girls."

"Oh shut up," said Dick; "and don't
talk such washed-out old nonsense."

It's true," said Ossie was^^fino^ his head
sagely ; '^ everybody knows this sort of
thing but you, and you're an old goose.
You'll be caught some day and cooked.
You're not the sort of chap that women
refuse."

Oh I know that stuff of yours," said
Dick ; but somehow this time he did not
laugh at his cousin's worldly wisdom. He
spoke crossly. The truth is that he was
more out of humour with his pleasant world
than he had ever been in his life before.

"Do you think of staying long in this
lively spot ? " asked Ossie presently.

No," said Dick ; " I think I shall have
to go home."

Go home ! "

Yes." He tossed Mr Kirby's letter to
his cousin. " Kedgate wants to be nursed,"
he said, and walked out of the room. He
wanted to be alone.

CHAPTER XXXV.

Dick retired into solitude that he midst
consider his feelings ; and so little accustomed
was he to self-examination, that it
was with a sense of solemnity little short
of awe that he withdrew himself from his
volatile cousin. He knew that the time
had come when he must consider his
position. He wondered how he had been
content to drift so long. However, he
would waste no more time in wonder ;
he must look this thing fairly in the face,
and have done with it for ever. As he
reviewed his thoughts and feelings of the
last few weeks, he was ashamed of himself.
He, who was in the habit of understanding

people so easily, had spent hour after idle
hour in questioning and doubting about a
girl. He, who had always seen so clearly
the relative importance of the facts of life,
had been dwelling on trifles lighter than
air, considering the meaning of a look ora
careless word. He had been puzzled,
perplexed, out of temper. As he looked
back on his strange moods, he exaggerated
his irritability ; for so sweet was Dick
Hartland's natural temper, that his occasional
crossness seemed monstrous in his
eyes. As he recalled his feelings, he told
himself again with greater emphasis that a
continuation of this state of things would
be intolerable. He asked himself what was
the meaning of this doubt, and perplexity,
and irritation. Was it possible that they
were the first symptoms of that unknown
malady of Love ? If so, it was strange
that his feeling for this girl was so like
annoyance. Did his friends think that he

was in danger of falling in love, and was it
that strange thought which had prompted
Fabian Deane's question about the Holcrofts,
and Ossie's careless remarks — perhaps even
caused the spirit of his mother's letter ?
Was he really in danger of falling in love ?
To that important question had he come at
last. He stopped in his solitary walking
and squared his shoulders as if he would
emphatically answer, No ; but even then
the little word was not uttered. He
wished to be exactly true with himself;
and this girl still puzzled him so much,
that it was hard to be certain of the
exact truth.

As Dick walked backward and forward,
he gradually found more and more comfort
in one thought, which seemed to promise
him a firm ground for action. This thought
had not a heroic air, for it was a thought
of flight. It seemed certain to him that he
had better put an end to all this questioning

and unworthy splitting of straws by
promptly removing himself from the atmosphere
which caused them. If there were
really the remotest chance of his becoming
a victim of the tender passion, the reasons
for flight were twice as strong;. Had he
not declared to himself that when he chose
a wife, he would give weight to all his
mother's prejudices ; that this should be a
sort of atonement for his obstinacy about
the land ? As for Miss Holcroft, he told
himself with a touch of bitterness that, if
he were certain of nothing else in this
matter, he was certain at least that she
did not love him. He laughed at the
thought.

As Dick went through again the few
short weeks since first he saw the girl, who
had so unduly occupied his thoughts, it
seemed to him that almost from the first
he had had two pictures of her in his
mind, and had been hesitating between

VOL. II. P

them. The one picture represented a girl
transparently honest for all her cleverness ;
with quick feelings but a high standard of
conduct ; with a serious interest in all
forms of art as means for her improvement,
and yet not contemptuous of such
pretty decorations of life as dress or pleasant
talk of the trifles of every day.
The other picture was of a less amiable
character. It represented one who was
not honest ; whose frank looks and manners
were assumed for a purpose — put on
with care like her gowns and gloves ;
whose good conduct was due to calculation
and cool blood ; who cultivated music
and painting as accomplishments which
added to her power of attraction ; who
found the chief business of life in amusing
herself, and the greatest amusement
in flirtation. Dick now declared to himself,
that doubt as to which of these two
pictures was the true representation of

the original was the cause of all his perplexity.


Dick presently returned to the belief, of
which he had now laid firm hold, that,
whether Miss Holcroft resembled the better
portrait or the worse, she did not care for
him. If she were the true straightforward
girl, in whom at some moments he had felt
such confidence, it was still certain that
her interest in him was as nothing in
comparison with her interest in her own
improvement. She was still comically
unlike that ideal gentle wife, whom he
had purposed to wed some day for the
satisfaction of his mother, and for the providing
of a quiet element in his own busy
useful life — of whom he had dreamed, now
as of a haven of rest, now as of a dim
grey-clad angel whose pleasure and duty
it was to smoothe the wrinkles from his
brow. If Miss Holcroft were honest and
true, she was still far from her whom he

would do well to marry; and luckily it
was certain that she did not care for him.
If on the other hand she were no more
than a clever comedian of real life, who
lived for these little comedies of two idle
players, it was certain that he was no more
to her, than a player in a theatrical episode,
a name on a list of men, a page in her
album of photographs.

As Dick grew more and more impatient
of this necessary consideration of his position,
immediate departure seemed more and
more clearly to be the solution of all difficulties.
If the girl was true, Dick felt
certain that she would marry no man
whom she did not really love ; and so he
had better go, while he could go without
pain. If she were no better than a little
flirt, the reasons for flight were terribly
strong; for such a girl, though she did
not love him, might marry any man for
position — for the park, which Ossie had

talked about. It was only too clear what
Ossie thought of her in spite of all his
admiration. Dick in his eagerness for
certainty was inclined to take the final
leap ; to admit that this girl was no more
than the little frivolous American flirt, of
whom he had heard, and that his occasional
belief in her higher qualities was due to his
inexperience of the species, and to her uncommon
cleverness. All the arguments
seemed to be on that side. How could her
air of frankness be genuine after seasons of
frivolous society ? Would so unsuspicious a
person as himself ever have doubted her at
all, if her nature had been so simply true ?
He said to himself that she had been playing
with him, as she had been playing with
Ossie. It was time for flight, and he would
go ; and he would take his cousin with him.
When Dick had made up his mind to go,
he spent but little time in settling details.
He decided to return to Pera on the next

morning, and there to secure berths on the
steamer which left on the following day.
Meanwhile being by this time heartily sick
of mental discussion he determined to do
something energetic before sundown. He
thought that a brisk ride would clear his
head of idle thoughts ; he knew that his
host had horses; he was unwilling to
leave the Bosphorus without one peep at
the forest of Belgrade, which was so close
at hand. So first he ordered that two
animals should be saddled at once ; and
then he went to tell his cousin all that
was before him. He had made plans for
Ossie, as well as for himself; it seemed
like old times ; and the pleasantness thing
about this necessary retreat was that it
would restore his friend to his care. Dick
never doubted that Ossie would accept his
decision, and would forget the Holcrofts,
father and daughter, almost before he
was out of sight of land. Since they had

first seen the girl, faint shadows of distrust
had come between them ; there had been
another influence on the wayward youth.
Now Dick warmed his heart with the
thought that he would carry his cousin
unscathed away ; that he would put things
right for him at home in England ; that
the old frank comradeship would be restored
with all its charm. So it was with a smile
on his lips that he told Ossie of his plans ;
and Ossie so far justified his expectations
that he made no objection. Indeed he said
nothing audible ; but, as he began to prepare
himself for the afternoon's ride, it was
clear that he acquiesced in that arrangement
at least.

Out they rode in the pleasant drowsy air
of the summer afternoon ; and as they rode,
there opened before them a country familiar
to their eyes as Surrey, swelling into gentle
hills, rich and warm, with here and there a
patch of growing wheat. They clattered

along the white road, and Dick's spirits
rose with the movement. Ending fast they
were soon in the skirts of the forest; and
there under the cool shadows their pace
became slower and slower. And this woodland
too was familiar enough, with its oaks
and its poplars, its deep fern freckled with
broken lights. Thoughts of home and of
the coverts of Glaring came to Dick ; and
his eyes peered eagerly through the dark
cool screen beside him. Beyond this first
dark screen the forest sloped downward,
and the trees on the edge of the slope
caught the full sunlight, and somewhere
there an unseen nightingale made the summer
air one music with the throbbing of
his song. Perhaps the young man s review
of his feelings had left them somewhat tender;
he had never before been so keenly
affected by such little gifts of Nature, as
this sunlight which penetrated the wood a
little way away, as this bird that sang in a

bush. His horse moved slowly under him ;
he forgot his dear companion ; for a moment
in the near shadows he had a vision of anarch
innocent face, which looked so little
guileful ; but in a moment too he had
brushed it away with decision. To put
an end to such fancies he turned to his
silent comrade ; and then he saw for the
first time sticking out between two buttons
of Ossie's coat the butt end of the pistol,
which he had insisted on bringing from
England. " What on earth do you bring
that thing for 1 " asked Dick.

'' Good men are scarce," said Ossie ; " Tm
bound to take care of myself. * Sauve qui
pent ! ' you know."

Dick laughed, and pushed the old horse
forward. When he had gone a little farther,
it occurred to him that the shadows of the
trees would be long on the ground, if the
path were not so narrow ; it must be time
to go back. He turned his horse, and then

it struck him that he was a little doubtful
about the way. They had turned off
the road, and now, when they wished to
regain it, they almost immediately came to
a place where two paths crossed, and there
they paused uncertain. Dick declared for
one way, Ossie for the other.

ril go down this, and see," said Ossie.

All right," said Dick ; '* only don't get
out of shouting distance."

Dick's path brought him in a very few
minutes to the right road ; but as he rode
out from the darkness of the trees, he saw
something, which half inclined him to seek
shelter again. Not more than two hundred
yards distant and coming to meet him was
a small body of foot-soldiers. They were
strao'oiinsj down the road with no officer
to be distinguished ; all alike looked dirty
and reckless. It was probable that they
belonged to that part of the Turkish army,
which had been placed to guard the head

of the Bosphorus ; but they were wholly
unlike the stalwart honest men whom Dick
had seen on the downs above Constantinople.
At a glance Dick pronounced them
an ill-looking lot. It flashed across him
that they might take him for a Russian
wandering about during the armistice ;
that, whether they took him for a Russian
or no, these were the sort of fellows whom
a solitary man in a lonely place and in the
growing darkness of the wood might tempt
to plunder, if not to snap of pistol. The
thought of a pistol brought Ossie's weapon
to his mind ; so far as he could see, these
rascals had no rifles with them ; they looked
like sorry rascals indeed, and if there were
a row, the sight of a second horseman with
a revolver would cow them in a moment.
As soon as he had come out of the trees, he
knew that he was seen ; and as he remembered
his cousin, he shouted his name
loudly, and rode slowly forward with an

air of carelessness. Almost as he shouted,
he saw Ossie break from the wood beyond
the straggling soldiers, who turned to
look at him. " Ossie ! " shouted Dick ;
but Ossie seemed to be in difficulties
with his horse, pulling his head about
and spurring him in an angry manner ;
and the horse, with a great noise on the
hard road, galloped away towards Buyuk
Dere. Dick felt a moment's regret, for he
was sure that if his cousin had come to
meet him with his pistol carelessly displayed,
this rabble, which separated them,
would have been tame enough. He had
time to think it strange that Ossie had
not even glanced down the road ; he supposed
that all his attention was given to
his beast, and that the galloping hoofs
must have drowned his shout. As it was,
there was probably nothing to fear. He
kicked the old grey into a canter. As he
quickened his pace, he saw that the stragglers

spread themselves with seeming carelessness
across the road. " God help me ! "
he said .below his breath ; and then he set
his teeth. Within a few yards of the soldiers
he suddenly tightened his rein and
his knees and gave his beast a smart cut
with his whip ; the good old horse sprang
forward ; there was a shout around him,
and a dingy half-bred ruffian caught his
rein, and swung forward on the road
beside him. And now Dick's blood was
dancing, and with a short sharp crack he
brought his heavy-headed whip down on
the dusky wrist, and his horse galloped
free. He heard the rascal's howl, and he
gave a great shout in answer, as he bent
low, expecting every instant the whistle of
a pistol ball. However nothing came ; and
as he pulled up and looked back, he laughed
at himself. It was not half an adventure.
He had never been aggressive ; and yet the
blood was tingling in his veins ; some old

fighting spirit was eager in his heart; he
was half inclined to go back and ride
through them again. Then again he
laughed at himself for his folly, and patted
the old grey's neck and set him in motion
towards his home.

As Dick drew near to Buyuk Dere, he
saw Ossie riding back to meet him. Ossie
was very white, and as soon as he was
within speaking distance he began asking
questions with a hurried and excited
manner.

I've had a little adventure all to myself,"
said Dick in his triumphant mood,
as soon as he could get in a word ; "I
shouted to you ; didn't you hear me
shout ? "

"No," said Ossie in a moment; Dick
looked at him with a sudden fear : a feeling:
of sickness came over him, as he knew that
Ossie had lied.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

Night brought little comfort to Dick Hart-land.
He was in a mood of such bitterness,
as he had never known, — as he would
have maintained to be impossible for him.
He had been contemptuous With easy good
nature of all railing against life and the
world ; but now life seemed poisoned, and
the world a base world, in which no woman
was worthy of love, no man capable of
friendship. He asked no explanation from
Ossie, nor did he meet him with rebuke.
Neither explanation nor rebuke could do
any good. The only scrap of comfort
came to him, when his cousin told him
that he did not wish to start for England

at once. A friendly attache had offered
him a room at Therapia, and he should
like to go there for a week or two. Though
Ossie's manner was unusually submissive,
Dick made no effort to dissuade him ; he
was eager to get away from him for a
time. The cousins were uncomfortable
together, and they were both glad when
the parting was over.

As soon as Dick had set foot in Pera,
he went to engage a cabin on the ship
which was to start on the evening of the
next day. Then he wrote a note to Miss
Holcroft, and asked at what time next
morning he might come to say good-bye
to her and to her father. He wrote briefly
that letters from home had urged him to
come back ; and that of course he could
not leave without saying good-bye, and
thanking them for having made his travels
so pleasant. When he had despatched this
note, he walked up and down restlessly

until he received an answer. At last his
messenger returned with a little three-cornered
letter. Though the shape of the
envelope had a suggestion of frivolity, the
handwriting was large and clear and
regular. She wrote that she was sorry
that he was going, and doubly sorry that
he was going so soon, because her father had
gone to see the English fleet and would
not be back in time to say good-bye ; and
then she named an hour at which she
would be delighted to receive him. And
that was all. As Dick stood twisting the
note in his fingers, he thought it strange
that she had not appended to her invitation
some allusion to transatlantic customs and
to his supposed British prejudice against
calling on young ladies. If she had, he
would have condemned it as bad taste ; as
it was, he said to himself bitterly, that her
note was exactly what it ought to be. "A
most accomplished young lady I " he said to
VOL. II. Q

himself, as he began to tear the paper
across. Then he stopped, and put the note
back in its cover, and the cover into his
pocket ; some day perhaps he would like to
have something to prevent him from entirely
forgetting some interesting hours.

Dick walked about the streets till dinner-time,
and in spite of the inadequacy of the
world he came to the table d'hdte with a
fair appetite. There, as he was lucky
enough to sit next to a man whose conversation
interested him, he almost forgot
his troubles for a time. His neighbour
was a Russian, and he was moreover that
rare creature, an educated Russian who
retained some enthusiasm. He spoke
English like a native, and as he found
that Dick listened with interest, he became
eloquent in a quiet way on the
rotten condition of the Ottoman Empire,
on the impossibility of an Oriental state
in the civilised Europe of to-day, on its

barbarous customs, its incredible ignorance,
the degradation of its women. Dick was
inclined to agree with him that the life
of Turkey in Europe could not be long ;
that the practical question was who was
to be the successor. Upon this the Kussian
gentleman, with the greatest politeness,
offered Dick Egypt in exchange for The
Golden Horn ; and though the young
Englishman raised some objections on the
ground of property, he found the suggestion
interesting. Indeed their talk
became lively ; and it once or twice
crossed Dick's mind how good a thing
it was, that if one met with disappointments
in private life, there were still the
affairs of the nation, and that these at
least were worthy of man's best efforts.
He was so pleased with his conversation,
that, when his new acquaintance suggested
an adjournment after dinner to a neighbouring
cafe, he agreed without hesitation.

This cafe in Pera had been established
by Europeans for Europeans ; and while
the visitors smoked and drank, the stage
at one end of the room was occupied by a
company of French singers and comedians.
At the moment when Dick entered, there
was some applause and rapping of sticks
on the tables, for a lady of the troupe was
standing triumphant on one toe, while with
her hand she clutched the high heel on her
other foot high in air above her head. The
strange thought came to the young Englishman
that probably no dancing Dervish
in the East could perform this agile feat.
When this lithe lady's dance was done,
another lady of ampler mould, with dead
white skin and bold black eyes and a widemouth
full of uneven teeth, sang with a
shrill metallic voice a little song full of
Parisian slang and strange allusions. Then
others sang and others danced ; and yet in
spite of all these efforts to amuse him.

somehow in the smoky air of the place
Dick's bitter mood crept back to him, and
he felt out of humour with life. He wondered
if the Eastern barbarian, who wandered
into this place of amusement, would
recognise the superiority of Western civilisation,
and the elevation of European women
above the degraded inmates of the Harem.
He remembered what he had heard in Syria
of the naturalised usurers, and how they
used the European consuls to extort their
monstrous interest; and he wondered if
this custom had impressed the Eastern mind
with the value of Western protection, and
the justice of Western rule. He wondered
if contemplation of the absolute trust and
open dealing, which prevailed between all
the civilised Governments of Europe, would
ever teach the Porte the value of a straightforward
policy.

What would be the first step in progress
? To turn the Mosque of St Sophia

into a church, or the gardens of the old
Seraglio into a magnificent Remorse ?
Dick on that evening almost doubted the
value of progress. He was heartily sick
of the cafe and these accomplished Parisians
— almost sick of life for the time being.
As he walked home, he told himself that
to improve the world was a dream like
the rest. What a world it was, which he
had thought so fair I Here girls played
with hearts for their amusement ; friend
dared not stand by friend ; reformers were
mere Cavendish Titles ; and a corrupt
East was to be civilised forsooth by a
corrupted West.

After a night less restful than the last
Dick rose with the desire of flight twice
as strong within him. If he seemed for
the moment to have lost all other faith,
he still believed that he could vanquish
these bitter thoughts, which he could
scarcely realise as his, when once he had

turned his back for ever on this ancient
city with its history of blood and crime.
He busied himself with getting everything
ready ; but when there was no more to
be done, there was still an hour or more
before he could go to Miss Holcroft. He
walked about, and wished that the interview
was over ; he told himself that it
could be nothing — nothing but a brief
visit of ceremony ; he stopped himself again
and again from wondering what she would
say, or what she would think. It seemed
as if the time would never be gone ; but
at last the hour had come, and he hurried
to say good-bye.

Miss Holcroft was alone, when Dick was
shown into the room. He had no eye for
details of costume ; but yet he saw at a
glance that she was exquisitely, though
simply dressed ; and the pains, which she
had taken to look her best, seemed to him
in his odd humour to put a final barrier

between them. He was conscious of a feeling
of constraint which was new to him.
His manner was formal and chilly — priggish,
he supposed. He was so little used
to think about his manner, that thought
of it made him unlike himself. When
she had expressed regret at her father's
absence, and he had said something to
the same effect, there was a little pause,
and then she said — "I am so sorry you
are going away." She spoke in a tone
of kindness, and the words were kind ;
but to Dick in his unhappy mood they
seemed almost maidenly. If she were
sorry, he was sure that it was because flirtation
is impossible without a man. He
thought that she might have let him go
without dressing herself up, and saying
soft things to him.

It's time I went back," he said ; ** there
are things to look after ; and they want me
to go in for politics."

Miss Holcroft made no comment on this
information ; she sat looking at him as if
she expected him to talk. She had her
back to the shaded light; and this made
him uneasy, for he could not see the expression
of her face. So he went on talking
about politics and the state of parties in
England, with a dreary indifference to both
parties and to all politics.

'' I wonder if you have any real reason
for going," she said at last, when he seemed
to have no more to say.

Fifty," he said with an unnatural
laugh. He felt that this should move
her to prattle ; when she said nothing,
he was half angry with her silence ; these
pauses irritated him ; he began asking
about their plans, that she might be compelled
to answer. But her answers were
very short ; for they seemed to have made
no plans. She thought that they would not
go home for at least a year ; and that was

all which she could tell him. He went
on asking questions, and only half listening.
The contrast of all this, which he
was saying, with the words in his heart,
made him feel like a mechanical doll.

At last he could stand it no longer;
he rose to go. ''I hope," he said, "that
when you come to England, you will let
me know ; your father has my address ;
will you tell him ? I should like to do
something "

He did not finish his sentence ; she had
risen too and was standing near him, but
her face was still in shadow. She gave
him her hand without a word; and he
held it for a moment or two awkwardly.
^^ Good-bye then," he said suddenly, as he
dropped her hand from his. He went out
and shut the door behind him ; but in the
instant before it was quite closed, he heard
a sound, which made him stand still in the
passage listening. He had shut the door

behind him, before he had time to think
that he had heard a sob. He stood still,
but he heard nothing. He told himself
that he had heard nothing. Anyway she
was dramatic ; that at least he knew ; the
proper end of such an episode, even of an
episode so little sentimental as this, was
of course a tear. He ran down-stairs and
out into the street. A little later he was
standing alone on the deck of the steamer,
which moved slowly down the Bosphorus ;
he was already counting the days, which
must pass, before he was again at home
in England.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

Printed BY WILLIAM Blackwood Aid SONS.

OF Thun

IVLI^SITY

Of 1 Ll Noise



St2)7cl

DICK'S WANDERING

BY

JULIAN STUEGIS

AUTHOR OF

'LITTLE comedies'

AN ACCOMPLISHED GENTLEMAN '

JOHN-dreams '

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXII

IV.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

What's the matter, mother ? Ain't you
sure yet that I'm myself ? " Dick had
looked up from the letter, which he was
writing, and found his mother's eyes fixed
on him again. It was his first evening
at home.

"No," she answered with a little laugh,
in which some of her great happiness found
expression ; " I don't feel sure, until you
speak. When you are not smiling, you
look grave and old. I feel as if you were a
man, and not my boy any more."

Dick came and seated himself on the
sofa by her side. " You must love me all
the more," he said ; "I can't do without it
now that I'm old and grave." He smiled
in a most boyish manner, and took her
hand in his. The pressure of his strong
hand gave Sophie Hartland an extraordinary
sense of comfort. She had missed
him every day, almost every hour. She
had always been conscious of her loss — not
of the loss of his presence only, but, as
she sometimes feared with an awful fear,
of his love also. While he had been journeying
and planning and observing, she
had been too often occupied by miserable
thoughts. She had been too much alone ;
she had had too much time for reflection.
In vain she had exhorted herself to be firm.
In vain she had blamed Dick again and
aejain for his self-will ; for his refusal to be
bound by the opinions of his dead father.
In spite of daily arguments in her own

defence, of daily accusations of her boy,
the maternal love in her heart would by no
means be denied. This love had arisen
ao^ain and ao^ain to accuse her of wicked
pride. More and more it had seemed
to her that the chief cause of her anger
against her boy was her own pride, and
not loyalty to her husband. And so little
by little she had passed almost to the other
extreme; until the recollection of Dick's
shortcomings was all but lost in that of
her own want of tenderness. To atone
for this she had done all she could. She
had visited Dick's tenants, looked after his
cottages, dusted his books with her own
hand, and even inspected his horses. She
had written him long accounts of everything
at home. She had done all she
could ; and yet there had remained to her
hours of leisure and of solitude, in which
she had been possessed by an awful fear
that she had estranged her only child.

She told herself that she had let him go
coldly; and though she had repented her
want of tenderness, she feared that her
repentance might be too late. Then in her
fear she would betake herself to prayer ;
and at such times the loss of the land, and
of all the tangible good things of the world,
had seemed as nothing in comparison with
the loss of love. And thus it happened
that, when Dick ran up the steps to meet
her and she felt in a moment that he loved
her as warmly as ever, a weight had been
lifted from her, of which this well-loved
son had no conception. Held in his strong
arms she had begun to cry quietly ; and,
as she closed her eyes to keep back the
tears, she had felt such pleasure in leaning
on another's strength, as she had not felt
since her husband died. All that was
weak and womanly in her girlhood, before
she taught herself to decide and to act on
her own responsibility — all her inborn

desire of guidance — seemed to have risen
like a flood over lier self-reliance and lier
pride.

And I don't half believe it's you," said
Dick, as he sat beside his mother on the
sofa ; " you look pale, and I see white lines
in your hair. You haven't been taking
care of yourself."

You must take care of your old mother
now," she said with a complete and blissful
forgetfulness, for the time being, of her old
strong desire to take care of him.

Dick pressed her hand for answer. She
could not have said anything which would
have pleased him more. He was ready to
place the care of her, side by side with the
achievement of something for the public
good, as the chief business of his life. He
was very glad to be on these terms with his
mother — and by no means surprised. He
remembered with satisfaction that he had
foreseen the effect of a short absence ; the

change seemed only natural ; he had a very
faint idea of the pain with which the
change had been accompanied. As the
peaceful days went by, he often congratulated
himself on his mother; and when
uneasy moments came, he was always good-tempered
and considerate. Sometimes she
could not refrain from remarks on new
ideas, on the certainty of the young as contrasted
with the experience of their elders.
More often she showed some remnant of
the former sense of injury by refraining
from giving an opinion, or prefacing it
with an apology. But these uneasy moments
grew ever more rare ; as her pride
in her management was remoulded into
pride in his strength and energy ; as the
habit of standing alone gave way to the
earlier inclination to lean upon another's
strength with trust and love. Then as she
yielded, Dick busied himself more and more
with little plans for her pleasure. He was

careful to adapt himself to all the details of
her management of the house ; and when
he was guilty of forgetfulness indoors, he
would hurry out to confer some benefit on
one of her favourite old women in the village.
And it was not long before he was
able to crown these trifling acts of kindness
with something more important ; for after
a close inspection of his finances he casually
told her one morning that, whatever else he
might do in his life, he should never sell
the place, which she loved. An outlying
farm or two he might part with some day;
but Glaring itself with its old park about
it he would be rich enough to keep for
himself and his heirs in spite of all experiments.
'' Thanks to you," he said, " and
to the best agent in Europe, I am abominably
rich — rich enough for a dozen hobbies,
and for a good home for you and me."

For you and your wife," she said softly;
but she did not look at him as she said it.

for her eyes were full of tears. She felt a
great relief; but there was still a question
which she longed to ask, but would not.
She wanted to ask him if, when he married,
he would settle the estate according to the
good old custom, though he had refused todo
so when he came of age ; but in spite
of her eagerness a remnant of pride kept
her silent. However, she had not long
to wait. Dick, with his usual desire to
remove all possibility of deceiving anybody,
proceeded to tell her in the liveliest
manner, that he would never limit his
power of doing what he liked with the
place. "Well keep it'' he said, — "you
and I ; but we won't tie our hands. We'll
do nothing on compulsion. We're all for
freedom, ain't we, mother ? " Then she
sighed, but she did not withdraw herself
from the arm, which he passed round her
as he stooped to look for approval in her
face.

There were other matters to be discussed
between mother and son in these early-days
of their renewed companionship. She
asked questions about Osbert Langdon;
and he about Betty Dodington. Each
asked, as if the other were to some extent
responsible for the conduct of the brother
or sister ; and neither was satisfied with
the answer. Dick had made up his mind
to say nothing about his adventure in the
forest of Belgrade, lest he should be driven
by embarrassing questions and his own
extraordinary truthfulness to the admission
of Ossie's bad behaviour. The consequence
of his silence was that Sophie Hartland
blamed him in her heart for abandoning
his wayward cousin in foreign parts without
due cause ; and that she was inclined to
think that this strange conduct of his was
wholly due to that young American lady, of
whom a disquieting rumour had reached her.
On the other hand, when Dick heard from

his mother that Betty in the first season of
her married life had been absorbed by the
gayest and giddiest section of society, and
that consequently she had scarcely seen her,
he was inclined to blame Mrs Hartland for
not going out more in spite of her shrinking
from the world. It was clear that Mrs
Dodington had enjoyed a triumph, by
which that of Miss Langdon was pale ;
and that for that reason she had needed
some older and wiser woman to look after
her. Of course Lady Marlborough had
dropped her crumbs of good advice ; but
Lady Marlborough with all her circles of
society around her could never have found
time for the duties of duenna. And so,
as Mrs Hartland said nothing of her own
efforts and anxieties, and but little of
Betty's amiable obstinacy, Dick could not
help blaming his mother a little for allowing
his charming cousin to be talked about.
There was no hiding the fact that Mrs

Dodington had been talked about ; and — .
and this was the least agreeable detail —
her name had been too often mentioned
with that of a, particular individual. It
was the name of this individual which
increased Dick's annoyance tenfold ; for
the man was Harold Dolamore. "You
don't think," he said to his mother, " that
she cares a rap for the fellow, do you ?
I've nothing particular to say against him ;
but I'm certain he's not fit to black Tory's
boots."

'*I am sure that Betty's a dear good
child," said Mrs Hartland softly but with
certainty ; " but she loves attention and
admiration ; she likes to be amused better
than anything in the world."

"Better than poor dear old Tory for
instance ? "

Yes, I am afraid so. She doesn't understand
him, and he's too proud to speak."

"You could make him talk to you.

People always like to confide in you,
mother."

'' I tried to make him talk to me," Mrs
Hartland said with a smile, and a faint
blush which vanished in a moment ; " but
lie said nothing except that Betty was
beautiful, and that it was no wonder that
she was so much admired. They make a
very handsome couple."

It's no good their making a handsome
couple," said Dick sagely, "if they don't
get on well together. There must be some
stupid mistake somewhere ; it's absurd that
they shouldn't be the happiest people in the
world ; we'll put it right, you and I — won't
we, mother 1 "

Sophie Hartland shook her head, but she
smiled as she shook it. She began to think
that this brave boy of hers could do a great
deal.

You see, my dear lady," continued Dick,
one mustn't expect too much from young

women. One must expect a good deal of
variety. They all like a bit of flirtation —
in some shape or other."

There was something in this speech which
made Mrs Hartland look at her son with
grave questioning eyes. She thought that
he would not have said these things about
women a year ago ; that he certainly received
the news of Betty's folly, which,
harmless as it was, had given occasion to
malicious tongues, with an easy toleration,
which he would not have shown a year ago.
A few months had changed this young-man's
view of the other sex ; and his
mother, so soon as she felt the change,
ascribed it all in an instant to the influence
of that American girl.

Very often, as Mrs Hartland sat with her
son or strolled with him on the terrace, she
was tempted to say something of this fascinating
Miss Holcroft, of whom she had read
first in one of Ossie's rare and rambling

epistles; but she always stopped herself.
As Dick chose to say nothing, she was
too proud to ask questions. She very soon
discovered that while he talked freely of
the pleasant days of his wandering, he said
hardly anything about his American friends.
He dismissed Mr Holcroft as an agreeable
and well-informed man, who was accompanied
by a daughter ; as they were going
the same way, they had seen something of
each other; and it seemed that that was
all. At least that was all which Dick said ;
but his mother's instinct told her that there
was something more. In the midst of all
her happiness in the reunion with her boy
this centre of disquiet remained. She was
very curious about this Boston girl, but she
would not ask any questions. She promised
herself that she would never allude to the
subject, unless he spoke first; and that
meanwhile she would dismiss it from her
mind once for all. Nevertheless it was not

dismissed once for all, but on the contrary
required dismissal many times a day. She
began to prepare herself for another disappointment,
for she thought that the silence
of this frank outspoken boy was a very bad
sign. She told herself that, as he had been
obstinate about the land, so would he be
about a wife ; that, since he was so self-willed
and since he knew even less than
other men about women, she must be prepared
for his choosing the wrong one.
However wise he were growing, he was
sure to be foolish in this matter. What
could be more wrong than an American girl ?
She had read about Americans, and had
seen them in hotels on the Continent. She
thought that they were pushing shrill people.
As for the girls, everybody knew that they
were frivolous, overdressed, always demanding
admiration, superficially clever, ready
to chatter on all subjects, dangerously attractive,
and pretty with a prettiness which

VOL. HI. B

could not last. Mrs Hartland could imagine
no wife less fit for an English country gentleman;
and therefore she could imagine
nothing more likely than that Dick would
marry such a wife. She prepared herself
for this, or for some like disappointment.
As she moved about the gardens or park,
she was haunted by this imagined lady of
Boston, who perhaps would some day reign
there in her stead. Between her and the
broad respectful countenance of the housekeeper,
with whom she held solemn conference,
the little thin pert face of her fancied
successor intruded itself with provoking persistence.
Of course she had always kept
steadily before her the fact that she would
have to abdicate some day ; but the prospect
was none the less unpleasant for being
kept steadily before her. She assured herself
that to the right woman — a sweet wife
of the old English pattern, who would live
to make Dick happy — she could surrender

her keys without a pang ; but it was hard
to contemplate the picture of a foreign importation
— a frivolous doll dressed by a
Parisian tailor — as mistress of Glaring. She
resolved, however, that nothing, which he
might do or leave undone in the future,
should alienate her again from her boy.
She resolved also that, when she " was
dowager, she would never interfere with
her daughter-in-law, nor even offer a word
of advice except under great pressure. She
thought that she would have to live a long;
way off.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

Dick thought that he was rapidly forgetting
the young lady who had perplexed him ;
and he was even a little surprised at the
rapidity of the process. Indeed, his first feeling[
after the farewell visit to ]\Iiss Holcroft
had been wonder at his own cheerfulness.
He was scarcely clear of the Dardanelles,
before he had regained a repose of spirit,
which he had not known for many days.
Adhere were those pangs, which in secret
he had half expected? Their absence
proved to his satisfaction that he had not
been in love — not even a little. A shade
of regret crossed his spirit that he had not
had that strange experience. Some natural,

if sentimental, regret he had felt ; then he
had laughed aQ-ain and abandoned himself
to that pleasure of movement, which
to him was only second to action. He
had laughed aloud at the thought that he
could change his thoughts and feelings
with the sky; nor was he wholly wrong,
though Horace was more right.

Once at home in England Dick would
have asserted without a shadow of doubt
that, if he had ever needed cure, his cure
was now complete. He made up his mind
to say nothing to his mother, because he
was certain that there was really nothing
to say ; and that to talk about a girl
always raised presumptions. By this prudent
course he succeeded in filling the
mind of his mother, Avhom he intended
to save from the least anxiety, with the
liveliest apprehension. Silence is a thing
which few women either like or understand.
As it is certain that Dick made a mistake

in this treatment of his mother ; so it is
probable at least that he was to some
extent mistaken about his own condition.
It is at least remarkable that the young
lady, whom he was sure that he had
never loved, was so often in his thoughts.
He was always going over the past in
search of fresh evidence of her levity. He
recalled most trifling details of her manner
and her looks with a frequency, which
was out of all proportion to the importance
of such matters. He never failed
to convince himself that the lady was a
flirt, and that he was luckily unharmed ;
and yet it is remarkable that he convinced
himself of these facts so often. It was
the last moment of their final interview
which remained most vivid ; and again
and again he assured himself that there
was nothing in it, but the last pose of
the coquette — the graceful action, on
which the curtain fell when the little

comedy was over. He was sorry for her ;
he allowed himself to pity her. It seemed
so pitiful that a girl, who certainly had a
fine nature, amid the follies and philander-kings
of the world should have grown baser
year by year; should be intent on doing
mischief instead of good ; should be so
blind to her conduct, that she would have
thought herself injured if men called her
flirt. Hers was a life too paltry for her ;
and she did not see its paltriness. He
pitied her. As for him, he was free ; and
he drew deep breaths of his native air,
rejoicing in his liberty. He assured himself
that he was free.

From idle thoughts and recurring memories
of the manners of young women,
Dick turned eagerly to the search of something
to do. He could not walk about
all day with his mother, though he was
very happy in their renewed friendliness.
He was impelled to do something, but

he could find little to be done. His
property and his accounts were in beautiful
order. Even the farmers found little
to ask for. They were busy with the
harvest, which was plentiful. Dick began
to be hungry for a little discontent. He
gave new life to the cricket in the park ;
he began to exercise his horses ; he interested
himself in the prospect of partridges
and pheasants. But such trivial occupations
did not content him. He wanted todo
something serious. Impatient of sentimental
memories he began to exercise his
mind more and more on political affairs.

The year, which was now drawing to a
close, had been full of stirring events, fuller
still of stirring rumours. The advance of
the Russian army on Constantinople ; the
answering passage of the British fleet
through the Dardanelles; the angry debates
in the Houses of Parliament ; the
mob meetings and war panics — all these

things had excited Dick's interest before
his departure for the Levant. But it was
the sight of Stamboul itself, of the circle
of Turkish troops around the city, of
Russian officers wandering in the streets
of Pera or making purchases in the Bazaar
it was the sight of such things as these,
which made the young Englishman realise
the excitement of the Statesmanship, which
deals with nations. Filled with a double
portion of this interest he had returned
home in time to hear the applause which
greeted the triumphant return of the
Envoys from Berlin ; and to consider the
opposing criticisms, which not even the
flood of congratulations could overwhelm.
Dick still held that the land, without
which man has neither place to stand nor
food to eat should be the chief study of
the politician ; but nevertheless he began
to feel the fascination of the great game
of international complications.

After the signature of the Berlin Treaty
he received a significant letter from Fabian
Deane, who was full of wrath with all the
Great Powers, and with their Representatives,
of whom he proclaimed the most
injurious suspicions. Fabian had so far
deviated from his plan of returning home
from Damascus, that he had been roaming
Europe like an unquiet spirit, and glaring
at all prominent persons in a way which
ought to have kept him permanently under
the eye of The Police. In July he had
appeared duly at Berlin ; he had almost
persuaded himself that he had a secret
mission of the utmost importance. However,
when the Conference was at an end,
he found that nobody expected a report ;
and as it was impossible for him not to
write one, he discharged it at Dick. He
denounced the Treaty as a sham, which
decided nothing finally; and which left
the thing, which needed decision most,

untouched. As to the future of Constantinople
no arrangement had been made ;
and the Golden Horn remained, as before,
the standing menace to the Peace of Europe.
After emptying the vials of his
wrath on all diplomatists of whatever
country, he favoured Dick with his own
short scheme for putting an end to the
Eastern Question for ever.

I cannot help believing," he wrote,
'that I am possessed by a magnificent idea.
It came to me like a flash, as I was thinking
of Todleben at San Stephen, and the
dead Pope in the Vatican. The rule of
the Turk in Europe is at an end. The only
question is — Who is to have Constantinople
'? I answer — The new Pope ! The
more I think of it, the more incomprehensible
it is to me, that not one of
these tittering and chaffering misnamed
Statesmen of The Conference have thought
of this. The presence of a Pope in Rome

is impossible. A free and progressive Italy
cannot long tolerate a centre of disaffection
at its heart. Between the Pope and
Garibaldi the position of its king will
become intolerable. The Pope must go.
Whither ? To a small territory, which he
can govern as a temporal prince ; which
is outside and independent of any European
power ; in the enjoyment of which he
shall be secured by all Christian nations.
Place him firmly in Constantinople — and
mark what follows ! Italy breathes again
freed of her nightmare. Russia, Austria, and
Greece — each resigns her dream for ever,
content that the others reign also ; and with
their mutual jealousies the greatest danger
to the peace of Europe is removed. As for
the Turks, these most phlegmatic fanatics,
who, as you wrote to me, beheld with equanimity
single Kussian officers in conspicuous
uniforms swaggering in their streets
at night, may be trusted to receive the

Pope with indifference. The great mongrel
population, more or less Christian, will receive
him with delight as a novelty, and
as good for trade. A few Mahometan will
cross over into Asia; and will presently
find at Bagdad, or Mecca, or somewhere
a new centre of the faith of Mohammed
under a Caliph or Sheriff or whatever he
is. Of course you know about El Mehdi.
The Arab tribes are already drawing together.
An Arab Empire dawns in the
East. The Sultan, who has no right to
be anything, must be chucked into the
Bosphorus or presented with rooms in the
Albany. I hope I have given you a sketch
of the great features of my plan. It is
stupendous ; but I am writing in such a
hurry to catch the post, that I don't feel
sure that I have put it clearly. Think of
it my dear boy. It is practical people like
you that I propose to interest. — Yours, as
ever, Fabian Deane."

Though Dick could not help thinking his
friend's scheme a little Utopian, this letter
went with many other things to swell his
growing interest in the wider political
questions. Nor was he long content with
interest alone. He was tired of books and
pamphlets. He Alas ever growing more
eager to have a hand in the business, or at
least a finger in the pie. So as a practical
young man he looked to the nearest
means; and the nearest means were at
Redgate. He wrote to Mr Kirby; and
from the guarded answer of that gentleman
he gathered that the secret of his
change of constituents was now so open,
that all the world might read it. The
Statesman wrote in haste, but promised the
full benefit of his advice at a later date ;
as soon as London could spare him, he
was to seek complete change and refreshment
in Scotland ; but before the end
of September he would come to Glaring,

review his young cousin's prospects at Lydgate,
and place bis ponderous influence in
the scales. Upon the receipt of this promise
Dick determined to see for himself
how things were in the borough, before
the present member came down to see for
him. As he was bent on trusting no eyes
nor ears but his own, he avoided the local
attorney also. Armed with nothing but a
short list of leading tradesmen on a half
sheet of note-paper, he drove himself into
Eedgate one pleasant afternoon, left his
trap at the Liberal Inn, and started alone
on a round of visits. He was confident of
complete success. He expected to be met
with open arms.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

Mr Hartland had many reasons for confidence.
It was generally supposed that
the Glaring influence was powerful in Lydgate,
which supplied most of the things
necessary for the house. Certainly Dick
thought himself a person of some importance
in that neighbourhood ; and he was
moreover fortified by his usual belief that
the world would treat him well, and would
recognise the excellence of his motives.
He stepped across the market-place, which
was now beautified by that Gothic ,
to the building of which Mr
Kirby had contributed so liberally ; and he
felt as if he were going to confer a favour

on the place. He expected that the few
worthy tradesmen, to whom he was about
to mention his wishes, would be flattered
by his selection and liberal of their support.
Happy in this idea he walked into the
chemist's shop, and saluted Mr Hopkins
with great friendliness. Mr Hopkins for all
his virtues was perhaps not too pleasing to
the general eye. His face, which was of the
same colour as his pale sandy hair and feeble
whisker, was only saved from insignificance
by a certain pertness of nose. Time could
find little to work on in the colour or form of
this thriving chemist, who might have been
of any age between twenty-five and fifty.

What can I do for you, sir ? " asked Mr
Hopkins ; *' nobody ill at 'one I 'ope ? "
He smiled a watery smile, and he protruded
his inquisitive face with the air of a thrush
expectant above a worm. When Dick told
him, as he proceeded to do without a
minute's unnecessary delay, that he thought

VOL. III. C

of standing for the place, the chemist's
expression of self-satisfaction was intensified
to an extraordinary degree. " Will
you oblige me by stepping in, sir ? " he said
with a business-like air, as he opened the
door of his sanctum behind the shop.
When Dick sat down, Mr Hopkins with a
faint smile of apology seated himself also ;
they were no longer showman and customer;
they were influential voter and aspiring
candidate. Dick finding that Mr Kirby's
retirement was no secret in the place, proceeded,
as he had made up his mind to do,
to give a few reasons why he himself should
be the successor. He had determined to
give his views on the chief questions of the
day as shortly as possible ; but he could
scarcely .help laughing, as he began to discourse
to the little man, who sat opposite to
him on the edge of a chair and rubbed his
hands between his knees. Nor did he find
it easy to go far in his confession of political

faith ; for the little man was bent on
giving his own views. He interrupted
every moment with — " Allow me, sir " — or,
"If you will allow me, I will explain to
you" — till Dick put his hands in his
pockets and resigned himself to listening.
But though Mr Hopkins had an air so
instructive, that any onlooker would have
supposed that he was imparting all the
wisdom of the Egyptians to a young disciple
; and though he made frequent use of
such expressions as — " I think I can make
my meaning clear " — and, " Now what the
burner wants is " — nevertheless it is a fact
that his select audience had but the faintest
idea of the meaning of his speech. At last
however a gleam of light appeared. As Dick
rose to go, Mr Hopkins made haste to say —
Yes sir ; I have little doubt that we can
find a common footing' ; of course you are
not in favour of Co-operation ? " He stood
and smiled, half servile, half condescending,

as if he were wheedling a superior, and
at the same time questioning a child about
matters probably beyond his comprehension.

Co-operation ? " said Dick ; " it's rather
a disappointment so far. I thought it
would do more."

"It 'as done more than enough, I think
sir," said the chemist.

You mean co - operation for selling
things. I don't think I care much about
that. It's co-operation for making things
which I still hope may do great things for
the working man."

You will find a very strong feeling'
against co-operation."

"Yes, but you see the difference, don't
you '? " said Dick ; and being now started
on a familiar course he began to explain
the difference between co - operation for
production and co - operation for distribution.
As he proceeded with his explanation,
he saw that Mr Hopkins shook his

sandy head ; and that he smiled, as if he
would like to say that he was too old a
bird to be caught with chaff of this kind,
while he could hear the worm in the
ground. Dick felt that the chemist
thought him an ingenious deceiver for his
years, and was paying him a silent compliment
on his astuteness. This annoyed
him a little, and made him cut his explanation
short. '' There's as much difference
as between light and darkness, though you
mayn't be able to see it," he said shortly ;
good-bye. Well talk about it some other
day." Mr Hopkins bowed his visitor out ;
he was not angry; he was conscious that
he could afford to ignore any doubts of
his power of seeing anything, which it was.
worth his while to see.

Dick laughed at himself, when he was
outside the shop, for being annoyed by
the little chemist ; but it was with a
refreshing perception of a strong contrast

that he saw the burly butcher, Mr Bother,
smiling upon him from his doorway. A
goodly array of meat hung on Mr Bother's
left hand, but for the moment he had
nothing better to do than to smile broadly
on the empty street. The sight of the
young squire, which was associated with
a steady consumption of joints, made the
worthy butcher smile more broadly still ;
and Dick, as he crossed the street, grinned
with almost equal geniality.

*' Going to stand, are yer 1 '' said Mr
Bosher, when he had at last grasped the fact.
That's right ; that's capital ; ha, ha, ha ;
and which are yer ? Russian or Turk ? "

"I'm for neither," said Dick, who was
pleased to see an interest in foreign politics
; and he would have gone on to state
his reasons for refusing complete sympathy
to either of the recent belligerents, had not
he been stopped by the noisy approbation
of his friend the butcher.

That's right, sir' said Mr Bosher ; '•' yer
right again. 1 can't abide a Russian myself;
but then they do tell me that the
Turks live on rice ; and I couldn't find it
in my conscience to go with them as eats
rice ; it's not to be expected."

Certainly not," said Dick, laughing ;
"it's not to be expected of a butcher."

'that's it," cried Mr Bosher, amazed at
the young candidate's quickness of perception,
"that's it, sir. I can see you
know what's what. I stood by Mr Kirby ;
and I see no reason why I shouldn't stand
by you, sir — no reason whatever ! "

I ask for nothing better," said Dick.

"I've had a deal of kindness from
Glaring," continued the other heartily,
and a deal of custom ; and I go for
anybody from Glaring, as is a true Briton,
and eats his beef like a Briton, and is dead
against co-operation."

Dick started and looked keenly at the

butcher. He wondered if all these prominent
voters had this word on the tip of
their tongues. Of course he would not
leave Mr Bosher under any misapprehension
for a moment ; and he was beginning
to explain the difference between the cooperation
for which he cared nothing, and
that which he approved, when the hearty
butcher broke in again. " Well, well, sir''
he said, " I don't pretend to know much
about these things. I mostly go with
Peaseley ; he looks into these things ; he's
a pushing feller Peaseley and gives a deal
of attention to politics. Have yer seen
Peaseley ? "

I'm going to him," said Dick with a
glance at his half-sheet of paper.

That's right, sir ; you can't do better,
though I say it." Then, as Dick was
turning away, Mr Bosher put a broad red
hand on his arm, and added in a hoarse
whisper — "No offence, I hope, sir. I do

mistrust that co - operation ; but I can't
afford to quarrel with Glaring Park, as you
know, sir. Quarrelling' in that direction
wouldn't suit my book — nor my books
neither ; ha, ha, ha ! "

"Look here," said Dick, who now felt
twice as strongly that all possible misconception
must be removed ; "I hope you
don't think that, if you did all you could
against me in an election, there would
be a chop the less ordered from home."

"Well, sir " began Mr Bosher with

the broad open smile of one, who knew
what elections were, and was not going
to be hard on a genial candidate ; but Dick
interrupted him curtly. " If you do think
so," he said, " make haste to think the
opposite. On my honour I'm more likely
to order a chop extra, if you vote against
me."

The burly butcher stood staring after
this extraordinary candidate with some

offence in his heart. He could not understand
him, and being somewhat slow-witted
he was apt to be offended by the
unintelligible.

And now Dick was eager to make two
more visits, and thus to finish for the present
a business, which he found less amusing
than he had expected. So he stepped
quickly into the shop of Mr Ovey the
baker, and made that mild-mannered man
jump by the suddenness with which he announced
his wishes. Mr Ovey, who had a
nervous temperament, clung to the counter
with one hand, and pressed the other to his
breast. In this position he glanced again
and again at the glass-door, which separated
him from the parlour, while he feebly ejaculated
— " Oh indeed sir ; oh sir ! I'm sure
it's very kind of you — quite a privilege I'm
sure, sir." And now the glass-door was
opened, and Mrs Ovey, who had listened
to Dick's opening statement, appeared in

all her dignity, her gown of warm brown
stuff, and her cap with ribbons in it.
Pray come in and be seated, sir," she
said ; and her little husband followed the
candidate into the room. " We shall be very
glad to hear," said Mrs Ovey judicially,
"what you have to say." Dick seated
opposite to this ample lady, who in her
majesty seemed to him like a judge crowned
with artificial flowers, found it hard to preserve
a proper gravity. To make a declaration
of his political faith to a stout woman,
while the legal voter was twitching and
gasping in the background, seemed to
the young candidate supremely ridiculous.
Nevertheless he began a brief statement of
his views ; but he had not advanced far,
when Mrs Ovey interrupted him by asking
if he had been to Mr Peaseley. AVhen Dick
said that he had not yet seen Mr Peaseley,
the lady's severity increased and was even
tinged with a little suspicion. She pursed

her lips and nodded her cap. '' We do not
like to say much," she said, " until we know
what Mr Peaseley will do. My husband is
unfortunately subject to biliary affections,
and is rendered nervous by politics. We
generally find it more conducive to — to
what is most conducive, to go with Mr
Peaseley. Mr Peaseley gives much attention
to politics, and is a vigorous opponent
against co-operation."

'' Yes, yes," muttered Mr Ovey hastily ;
CO - operation ; that's the thing to guard

against ; it's dreadful ; it's " but the

rest of his hurried speech was lost in a fit
of nervous coughing.

"I'll go and see Peaseley," said Dick.
In the street he stood still a moment to
laugh. This was a strange experience for
him, and though he laughed, he was not
sure that he liked it. These people in spite
of various degrees of civility were all distinctly
patronising ; and their manners were

quite unlike those, which he had observed
first, when as a boy he used to go shopping
in Eedgate with his mother. He wondered
how much of the change was due to the
progress of enlightenment, and how much
to the difference between a customer and a
candidate.

However, Dick had now grasped one
fact ; and that was something. Peaseley
was evidently the man, whom it was worth
while to talk to ; and since Peaseley was an
influential politician, it might be presumed
that he was aware of the distinction between
co-operation for making things, and co-operation
for selling and buying them when made.
So with renewed hopefulness Dick strode
down the street and entered the grocers
roomy shop. Mr Peaseley was standing behind
the counter, and as he turned from a
little girl who had just completed the purchase
of a candle and a dried herring, he
displayed to Dick a broad tallowy face and

a bald bulging forehead. His civil smile
betrayed the absence of front teeth. His
long upper lip was shaved clean ; but
from beneath descended a veil of yellow-grey
beard, which reached his ample and
rather greasy waistcoat. His manner was
bland and even unctuous ; he attached
a great value to it ; one of his secret
thoughts was that, had his conscience permitted
him to conform with the Established
Church, he would have made a beautiful
bishop. To this Episcopal grocer Dick addressed
himself ; and when he said that he
had been referred to him by several people,
the worthy man smiled more widely and
bowed with dignity. He heard Mr Hart-land's
wishes with well-re emulated interest
without either surprise or excitement.
Then he asked in his smoothest tone if he
would honour him by stepping into his
private room ; and furtively wiping his
hands on the inside of his apron he ushered

him into that apartment. After this he
listened to the young candidate no more,
but proceeded to deliver an address which
gave himself at least much calm enjoyment.
He politely but obstinately ignored the
listener's occasional comments ; he flowed
on with much pleasure in well-rounded
mouth-filling words, and deplored the awful
condition of the country, which, though a
consistent Liberal, he could not but regard
with horror and dismay. He shook his
bald head over Socialism, Communism,
Nihilism, Atheism ; and finally ended his
oration by asking Dick if, in the event of
his being returned to the House of Commons,
he would bring in a Bill for the suppression
of co-operation.

'' You mean Stores '? " asked Dick. The
word seemed to pain Mr Peaseley, who
shook his head slowly over the depravity
of human nature.

"There can be no question of making

laws against Co - operative Stores," said
Dick. '* People have as much right to
combine for trading purposes, as they have
to part their hair on which side they like."
Perhaps the illustration was unfortunate,
since Mr Peaseley's yellow-grey hairs were
drawn in slender lines over his excessive
skull. He certainly spoke, as if he were
rebuking wickedness in high places, when
he said, ''I deeply regret to find that you
are in favour of co-operation." In spite
of his rcOTet he seemed to taste the word
as if he liked it.

"I know nothing about Co-operative
Stores" said Dick, "and I've had nothing
to do with them." Then he went on to
explain once more that the co-operation,
in which he felt an interest, was the combination
of workmen for making things ;
and he added that, unless he were strangely
mistaken, this co-operation could in noway
interfere with shorten, who could

buy their goods just as well from a company
of working men, as from a single
manufacturer. To this explanation Mr
Peaseley listened, as if this were one
more attempt to extend the damning influence
of Socialism, Communism, Nihilism,
and Atheism by the misuse of language —
the drawing of false distinctions by sophistical
subtlety. Though he preserved the
full urbanity of his manner, as he bowed
his visitor from his door, there was a disagreeable
look about his loose lips ; he was
placidly offensive to Mrs Peaseley when he
joined her at the tea-table; he had the air
of a suffering, if ponderous, angel, when he
found that she had forgotten the muffins.

As Dick drove himself from Kedo^ate, he
looked back on his late experiment without
satisfaction. He had often declared that the
want of a mutual understanding between
the shop-keeping class and the working men
was one of the chief sources of dancer to

VOL. III. D

the country ; but nothing had made him
realise this want so thoroughly, as the obstinate
refusal of these tradesmen to understand
the meaning of co-operation of artisans.
"The grounds of my objection," he said to
himself, imitating the pronunciation and
slow unctuous delivery of Mr Peaseley.
He felt that he should like to drop on Mr
Peaseley 's bulbous head the largest of his
cheeses. He let the reins drop on his old
mare's back, as he began to think if he
could not do something, in his own neighbourhood
at least, to make the shopkeepers
and workmen understand each other better.
At last an idea came to him, which made
him look up quickly. He saw that the
sun was low, and tightening his reins he
spoke to his old beast, who rarely needed
any further urging. He thought that he
had one of those fortunate inspirations,
which came to such lucky fellows as himself.
Inside Glaring Park the mare was

for turning to the house, but her driver
guided her in the other direction ; he
drove out of the other gate into the village,
called a small boy to stand by the
mare, and knocked at the door of Mr
Emmens, the cobbler. Emmens was still
at work, though the light was failing. " Did
you ever lecture on co - operation ? " asked
Dick, as soon as he had said 'good evening!"

The cobbler was cautious as usual. " I
may have said a few words on that subject,"
he said, "a good many years ago''

Have you anything written ? Can I
see it?"

"I may have something jotted down
somewhere ; it may be of some use — and
it may not." Now Nicholas Emmens had
carefully preserved all the lectures, which
he had delivered in former days to fellow-workmen
of a London Club. These lectures
were the result of eager toil, and he
could not bear the idea of having his failli

UBRARV

in them shaken. In him there was always
a contest between distrust of his narrow
education, and a cultivated arrogance which
led him to say, — " My ideas are as good
as another's, and, it may be, better." At
last however he was persuaded to produce
the lecture. He lit a candle for Dick ;
and then he picked up the boot, on which
he was at work, as if the other's opinion
concerned him not a jot. The paper was
a good plain statement of the principles
of co-operation, with instances of its successful
working. It seemed to Dick the
very thing, which was needed. Nicholas
smiled grimly at Mr Hartland's enthusiasm
; but for all his self-repression his eye
kindled at the thought of instructions a
room full of tradesmen. He began to
discuss the scheme, while his wife stood
by smiling, and wondering that she should
have a husband, who could talk so cleverly
with educated gentlefolk.

"How's the garden Mrs Emmens?" asked
Dick as he was going.

'* Beautiful, sir," she said ; " he keeps it
more beautiful than ever."

Her husband looked at her darkly but
fondly. " I sometimes think you've ruined
me," he said to Dick, ''by making me a
landowner ; you've made me too comfortable
and happy ; you've made me idle."

Dick wrung his hand ; *' I've found you
something to do this time," he said.

"And that's another thing I've got to
say," said Nicholas ; '' this lecturing mayas
likely as not do you no good, if you
are going to stand for Redgate."

That don't matter," said Dick in great
good humour. " The important thing is to
get the truth into their heads. They ain't
bad fellows if you take them the right
way."

"If you shake 'em well first," said
Nicholas Emmens grimly.

CHAPTER XL.

Mr John Wilmading Kirby was on his
way to pay one of his pleasant informal
bachelor visits to Glaring. He had left
all his family well at home. His visits
in Scotland and his conscientious pursuit
of the grouse had done him a world of
good. He was pleased with his health ;
pleased with the still world of early autumn
which he surveyed from the window of
his railway carriage ; pleased above all
with the Avork which he was going to do.
He was going to make things smooth
for his clever young kinsman at Redgate ;
and he congratulated himself on the fact
that nobody could make them so smooth

as he. He liked to confer a benefit ; and,
when the person to be benefited was of
his own family, his liking almost amounted
to a passion. To help those of his own
blood was a duty which he hugged to
himself with his whole heart. As he
travelled smoothly forward, he pleased
himself with a vision of the young squire
introduced into The House under his ample
wing ; and he even felt a generous throb
of exultation at the success of his young-kinsman's
manly and sensible maiden-speech.
" That young cousin of Kirby's ! "
he thought he heard the bigwigs saying to
one another.

Mr Kirby alighted at Eedgate station
with abundant friendliness. He had a
word for the porter, and a dozen words
for the station-master ; he patted on the
head a little boy, whom he removed from
his path ; and he emerged into the afternoon
light, and saw with pleasure that the

Glaring brougham awaited him. But as
the gratified porter held open the door of
the carriage, the eye of Mr Kirby chanced
to fall on a large notice affixed to the neighbouring
wall. Since all public notices pasted
on Redgate walls demanded his best attention,
the politician stopped to read ; and
as he read, the fresh colour of his face
became rapidly intensified, and his lips
began of themselves to utter powerful ejaculations.
The notice stated that a lecture
would be delivered at the Institute by
Nicholas Emmens, cobbler of Glaring, on
Go-operation, and that the chair would betaken
punctually by Richard Hartland,
Esq., of Glaring Park. The ejaculations
died away on Mr Kirby 's lips ; he was
silent, as he hid himself in the brougham,
and was driven away. But as he went,
strange muttering came to his relief, and
fragments of speech. " Poor dear boy 1 "
he murmured ; " Damned young fool ! " he

muttered ; and he exploded at intervals into
fragments of pity and into smothered oaths.

When Mr Kirby shook Sophie Hartland's
hand, she saw that he was red in the face,
and she heard that his voice was hoarse.
He could not bear to speak to her about
this calamity ; but when Dick came to
greet him with his usual smile of welcome,
he could no longer restrain himself " I
hope you are content now," he said ;
"you've done with your chances ; you
might as well stand for Bedlam as for
Kedgate after this."

"After what?" asked Dick, though he
guessed the cause of his great cousin's
disquiet.

After what ! After putting up an infernal
communistical cobbler to give lectures
on his infernal co-operation — and putting
yourself up as his patron before all the
world 1 It's — why, it's — and that infernal
agitator Emmens of all men."

come," said Dick, " Emmens is the
quietest man in the village, and no morea
Communist than I am. These Redgate
shorten don't know the difference between
co-operation for production and co-operation
for distribution ; and Emmens is to
explain it. That's all. I hope the lecture
will lead to others, and do something to
bring classes here together and make them
understand each other."

By — oh — don't you see — " began Mr
Kirby walking up and down the room, but
his feelings hindered his speech. " Don't
you understand," he said at last, " that
they never will understand the difference.
What do they care about the difference,
or any other difference ? They've only
just learned the word ; but they have
learned it — and it frightens them. Don't
you know that it's the dam'dest stuff and
nonsense to talk about explaining anything
to these people V

"It's lucky your constituents don't hear
you," said Dick.

The name of this infernal cobbler," continued
Mr Kirby warming visibly to his
work, " stuck up on all the walls with
your name — and, damn it ! the same size
too — must have done for you with every
tradesman in Eedgate ? What on earth
was Aveling about ? Has he gone mad
too ? "

I didn't ask Aveling," said Dick. '' I
thought I wouldn't go to a lawyer."

Not go to a lawyer ! good heavens ! "

It must be confessed that the prospects
of Mr Hartland as candidate were not brilliant.
Mr Kirby hurried into Eedgate on
the very first morning of his visit, and had
a talk with Mr Aveling the attorney. He
returned calm but hopeless. The lawyer
expressed an opinion that the mischief
was irreparable. He regretted to find a
widespread belief among the voting class,

that Mr Hartland was a dangerous young
man with opinions hostile to property, if
not subversive of all morality and religion.
He thought that after this unfortunate lecture,
which would probably be but thinly
attended, Dick had better keep quiet for
as long as possible, and allow the unfortunate
impression to wear out. If in the
meantime, the House could be filled with
a succession of parties, and as little as
possible ordered from London, Mr Aveling
thought that a healthier feeling might be
slowly fostered in the Borough. Mr Kirby
repeated the lawyer's advice, but with no
confidence. His manner was solemn. He
said that he must reconsider his own plans ;
that, if as was likely, the general election
would not be long delayed, he thought that
he must continue to represent Redgate, lest
it should be lost to the Party ; that at any
rate he must consult the Leaders of the
Party. As he spoke of the Leaders of the

Party, his tone was almost funereal; but
presently his solemnity once more gave
way, and he broke forth again into exclamations
of regret and indignation. He was
obliged to turn to the window and stare
out across the terrace and the wooded
valley below ; and Dick was very sorry for
him, as he saw the roll of firm flesh between
his back hair and his stiff collar turn to a
deeper red under the influence of emotion.

Dick was very sorry for Mr Kirby's disappointment.
It seemed to him natural
and laudable in his kinsman to be eager
for his presence in Parliament. He was
sorry also that he had damaged his own
prospects, though he did not for a moment
believe that he had done the wrong thing.
"When one sees a good thing to do," he
said, " of course one must do it ; and if one
can't get into Parliament by that way, one
had better stay outside." And though socii
speeches only roused the politician to anger,

the sentiment awakened a sympathy in
Sophie Hartland, which was very pleasant
to her son. Mrs Hartland was beginning to
look on Dick as a philanthropist, as a kindly
young prince condescending to make peace
between two inferior classes ; she persuaded
herself that her husband, who was always
so considerate to his inferiors, would not
have disapproved this action of their son.
So Dick was happy, and content to postpone
his triumphant entry into the House
of Commons; although he more than half
believed that, when the Crisis actually came,
he would carry all before him with a rush,
and would be returned for Eedgate by an
overwhelming majority, with all his good
intentions in his head, and his pockets full
of plans for helping all sorts of people. Anyway
he was prepared for either fortune. Still
he was sorry to pain his old friend Kirby,
and he sought to make some atonement by
giving him some good partridge shooting.

But here again lie was unfortunate ; for Mr
Kirby, who was often too slow in shooting
at birds, looked everywhere for hares and
expressed surprise and indignation at their
scarcity. He had shot numberless hares at
Glaring in former days, and he felt as if he
was defrauded of a right. When he heard
that his young host allowed his tenants to
kill them on account of the roots, he had
his final explosion of wrath. He affirmed
that being a Liberal had nothing whatever
to do with hares ; that he was as good a
Liberal as any man ; that this fuss about
hares and rabbits was the dam'dest doctrinaire
rubbish, and would be the ruin of England
yet. He took leave of Sophie Hart-land
with tears in his eyes ; he muttered
and growled as he pressed Dick's hand ;
he had never taken so gloomy a view of
the condition of the country. He felt that
there was no consolation for him except in a
consultation with the Leaders of the Party.

In due time the night of the lecture
came, and owing to Dick's exertions, and
the desire to conciliate the Park so far as
might be done without danger to Society, the
hall of the Institute was well filled. Neither
Mr Peaseley nor Mr Hopkins were present ;
but in spite of this important opposition
there was a fair show of local tradesmen.
They greeted the young chairman with
friendly applause ; he seemed so pleasant
and spoke with so much friendliness, that
they could not help liking him ; most of
them were in the habit of liking him,
though they ^veve all beginning to regard
him as a feather-headed and unaccountable
young man. Even in the very hall
itself there was solemn and secret discussion
of a paper, which the lawyer was
preparing for the signatures of the most
influential voters; and this paper was to
convey to Mr John Wilmading Kirby the
earnest prayer of the good people of Red-gate

that he would continue to represent
them in Parliament.

Though Dick was able to persuade himself
on the evening of its delivery that the
lecture had been a success, he took a truer
view of it on the following morning. He
remembered that the lecturer had been
received but coldly, and had finished his
task in an atmosphere yet ' more frigid.
Nor was this wholly to be ascribed to a
want of courtesy in the Eedgate tradesmen
; for Dick had not failed to notice
that Nicholas Emmens had been unable to
resist the temptation to puzzle the worthy
shopkeepers with occasional irony. The
chairman had been several times on the
verge of ill-timed laughter, when both the
lecturer and his audience were grave as
judges. He blamed Nicholas, and yet not
much ; he was quite sure that the audience
whom he had taken such pains to collect,
had on their side taken no pains to under-vol.

III. E

stand what they heard. Anyway it was
over, and that was a good thing. He
hoped that some seeds of a better understanding
had been sown. The task of
educating a constituency seemed harder
than he had thought ; he was content to
postpone the next effort for a time, even
though it might delay his entrance into
public life. On that day at least he forgot
to care about entering public life, which
seemed to him to demand too many sacrifices
of private opinion. He felt happy
in his freedom. He ordered his horse, and
his spirits rose as he cantered through the
Park. He descended by a steep bridle-path
into the valley, and emerged upon
the road. Down the road he trotted
briskly, and as he went, the beauty of
the autumnal afternoon filled hint with
unusual delight. It was the end of September,
and the great horse-chestnut, which
he passed, was all pale - golden, and her

fruit was on the ground. He looked up
from the hollow, where the road dipped,
and saw high over him the topmost leaves
of a beech all bright red gold and gleaming.
So he knew that the sun was low
in the west, and about to set in glory.
He pushed on his horse to where beyond
the trees the bare hillside came steeply
to the road; and there the whole smooth-cropped
slope was golden. Up the slope
he rode as if to heaven. His heart
beat high with glad confidence. Somewhere
he would do some good work, and
his fellow-men would see that it was good.
Whether he were to sit in Parliament or
no, seemed a small matter; somewhere he
would find the fitting task, and do it with
a will ; in the House or out of it, in the
East or in the West, — somewhere he was
destined to victory. Suddenly he burst
out laughing at an incongruous thought.
The West had come to his mind unbidden.

and the next moment he had remembered
a girl, who had come from the West to
trouble his young spirit. He laughed at
this absurd descent from great ambitions
to the memory of an episode so trivial.
And yet, as he rode, a softer influence
possessed him, and his pace grew slower.
He stared with a dreamy pleasure, which
was strange to him, at the sheep scattered
on the warm grassy slope, and the fold awaiting
them. The intense stillness charmed
him. Before he reached home, the cattle
in the valley below were knee-deep in mist ;
and overhead the yellow moon shone in a
pale violet sky.

CHAPTEK XLI.

Autumn and winter passed at Glaring without
remarkable events. Dick was glad of
the quiet life ; and very glad of the companionship
of his mother, who every day
seemed more at ease with him. He left
the politicians of Eedgate to their own
unassisted discussions, and betook himself
with fresh interest to the study of '' Statesmen's
Year Books," and of political pamphlets.
He read all the reports, which he
could get hold of, about emigration ; and
these gradually turned his mind from his
plan of planting a little colony in Palestine
to wider schemes in the far West. The
West began to have a peculiar attraction

for him. He tried to realise the vast extent
of corn-lands and of pastures. He decided
that he should have to see these things before
long; that he must judge for himself the
future of wheat in Dakota and Minnesota
and the Canadian Manitoba, and the prospects
of cattle-breeding in Wyoming and
Montana. The idea of so much land excited
him. He had a vision of turning good
British farmers and labourers into landowners,
and so strengthening the bonds of
union between the two great kindred peoples
of England and America. He was eager to
own a bit of new virgin land on that side
of the great sea. He often thought that he
would like to have a talk with Mr Holcroft
about it. After all Syria was less interesting
than America, as the future is more
stimulating than the past. Occupied with
such thoughts, busy out of doors with his
gun or his horses, and indoors with his
books and reports, Dick found that the

time passed quickly enough. He refused
several tempting invitations, for somehow
he did not care to go just then to country-houses,
where there would certainly be
girls. He flattered himself that more serious
matters demanded his attention. He
would have thought himself bound to goto
any house, where he would meet the
Toringtons ; for he had made up his mind
to give his cousin Betty a scolding and to
point out to her what she ought to do.
But the Toringtons had left England rather
suddenly to join the Marlborough's yacht
in the Mediterranean ; and so Mr Hartland
was obliged to content himself with the
prospect of putting things to rights in that
quarter, when the young couple had come
back for the season.

And so the winter passed away in peace,
and suddenly the world awoke and it was
spring. It seemed as if all the birds had
begun to talk at once. Half awake Dick lay

one morning listening to this babble of the
dawn, and presently amid the myriad voices
he heard the cry of the cuckoo ; it seemed as
if spring had found a voice. Dick jumped
out of bed, and opened his window wide ;
a soft westerly air filled the room ; the
wind had changed in the night.

After breakfast he found it impossible to
read. He went out through the window of
his study, and found his mother on the
terrace. He took the big basket from her ;
and he kept in his the little hand, which
was almost lost in the great garden-glove.
Mother," asked Dick, as they walked
slowly in the sunlight, '' how does a man
know when he is in love ? " The unexpected
question made her tremble a little.
She gave a little tremulous laugh, before
she said — '' That shows you never have
been in love. You will know it, when
you are."

Sophie Hartland spoke honestly. She

had forgotten long ago her own doubts and
hesitations. It would have seemed to her
impossible that she had ever doubted of her
love for that paragon of men, who had asked
her to be his wife : the bare idea would
have seemed to her unpardonably disloyal.
So do honest folk, when they look back on
the love-affairs of their youth, substitute for
their own experiences the straightforward
literary romances of that time. The elderly
gentleman thinks that he fell in love (and
the phrase has all the antique suddenness
about it) at the first moment when his eyes
fell on Isabella at the Assembly; and
Isabella, whose drooping curls have long
since vanished, believes that as her eyes
fell beneath his ardent gaze, Cupid's dart
was fixed in her heart for ever. They have
forgotten the anxious hesitations, the rapidly
changing temperature ; they remember love
as drawn by the romancers of our fathers'
springtime.

'' I think I must be different from other
men' said Dick standing still, and looking
down upon her seriously. It is a speech
which has been made by many thousand
young men, and made seriously by most of
them. Sophie Hartland gave no answer
but a sigh. Then she smiled again, and
asked for her basket.

No," said Dick with the air of authority,
which on this morning she noticed without
a shadow of her old resentment ; " no !
you shall sit in state like a lady ; and
I'll do just what you tell me."

I want that basket filled to the brim
with primroses."

It shall be filled to overflowing," said
Dick.

They had crossed the great avenue, and
had passed the high wall of the kitchen-garden
and through the little gate into the
orchard. The old gnarled trees were still
bare, but all the rouc^h ground beneath

them was rich with primroses. Nestling
near the hedge, which bounded the further
side, were many violets ; there were patches
of delicate wind-flowers ; but to their eyes,
as they entered this unkempt garden of the
Spring, there seemed room for nothing but
primroses. Dick's task was easy. His
mother sat idle on the old bench, and
watched him with softened eyes, as he
knelt here and there gathering the flowers
carefully. Now and then she pleased herself
by giving him directions, pointing to
richer tufts, warning him to gather leaves
enough. And he pleased himself by obeying
all her orders faithfully. All his attention
was given to his work ; he seemed to have
forgotten love; at least he said no more
about it. And she would say nothing about
it. She felt sure that his words had meant
nothing ; that this thought of love was buta
sign of healthy life in young creatures at
springtide. Was it not natural ? Suddenly

the whole earth was ruffled and tufted with
primroses, and dotted with buttercups and
daisies ; the little copses were gay with
anemones and half-hidden violets ; celandine
peeped from the steep side of the
ditch ; the slight hollow in the open field
was beautiful with slender daffodils. Spring
had lingered long, and seemed the richer
for her long delay. All the ivy and the
shrubberies were filled with the babble of
birds ; the first swallows were coming ; the
nightingale, who comes before his mate, had
been heard in the quiet night. The young
lambs stumbled with their big knees in the
deep green grass ; the young wheat peeped
from the brown field ; and above it the lark
rose, leap after leap, singing to heaven, where
the soft blue was flecked and swept by fleecy
clouds. Was it not natural then that a
young man, whose feelings had been neither
deadened nor frittered away, should be moved
to tender thoughts ? Sophie Hartland assured

herself that it was natural and right,
and that she would not have it otherwise.
As she sat in the soft pure air and watched
her boy, she was sure for that hour at least
that no harm would come to this shining
young creature. Perhaps she looked too
long or too steadily ; after a little time she
saw him through a mist of happy tears.

To Dick Hartland no spring in his past
life had said so much. Brought up in the
country, and gifted with quick eyes and
unflagging curiosity, he had begun early in
life to notice little things — where birds'
nests were likely to be found, and whether
the hatch-out of young thrushes were abundant
; when the first young squirrel was
seen, and the first swallow ; when the new
green points were found on the elm twigs,
and when the willow wands, which curved
up from the half-hidden pool, were adorned
with soft golden buds. He had liked to
notice such things ; and he had been ready

to admit that some of them were pretty.
Now however they touched him nearer.
Though the wild Powers in Palestine had
seemed more various and abundant, neither
these nor any flowers since his birth had
touched him so nearly. It struck him more
than once that he had been torpid for some
months ; it struck him as comical ; he
seemed to have been awakened with the
awakened world. Now the fact is that
that, which seemed to Dick torpidity, would
have seemed to most people a high level of
animal life and spirits. It had never been
his habit to ask from what quarter the wind
was blowing, except as it affected the scent
on a hunting; mornings. Now however he
recognised the soft Western air with a
peculiar pleasure ; he lay open, as it were,
to its sweet influence. Suspicions were
swept out of his heart. He could scarcely
have a hard thought of anybody. The
year was long before him with a thousand

pleasant chances. There was plenty of time.
He was confident that good things were in
store for him. So from the influence of
early violets he passed to the thought of
people. There were so many friends, whom
he was eager to see again. His mother
was going to London soon; and he made
up his mind to go with her. He told himself
that he ought to look after Ossie ; he
feared that he had been hard on Ossie, and
had expected too much of him. He was
still more certain that he must look after
Ossie's sister. He felt sure that he would
set the Dodington household to rights.
These little things he would effect, before
he embarked on wider schemes. Meanwhile
he would see politicians, and pleasant
friends, and lovely women. He had been
alone too long. He went about the old
house whistling ; and he would jump a
gate or a paling to rid himself of some
superfluous energy.

CHAPTER XLII.

Even the arrival of young Mr Hartland of
Glaring did not make a great sensation in
the London world. Since he had been
absent during an entire season, many people
had forgotten him, and many more had
forgotten whether they knew him or not.
However Dick did not trouble himself
about such things. He shook hands
warmly with people, whom he knew or
thought he knew. He was inclined to
shake hands with all the world — to shake
them by both hands. He smiled on his
acquaintance, expecting smiles in return;
and so he generally received them. Since
he liked everybody, or at least disliked

nobody, few people disliked him. He made
himself pleasant to men and women, and
he had no shy fear that they would make
themselves unpleasant to him. Such a
possibility never crossed his mind. Indeed
he very rarely thought of others' opinion
of him ; he took it for granted that they
saw that he was a good sort of fellow ; and
so he turned incontinently to the consideration
of matters more worthy of his attention.
But perhaps the chief cause of his popularity
was a certain air of innocence, which
combined with practical sagacity has a
charm for a weary world. It was a peculiar
flavour not too common in the youth
of the day ; Dick was like the first strawberry
; he was refreshing to the jaded
palate. Even those young men, who
seemed to be ashamed of nothing but a
want of knowingness, were not insensible to
the charm of this freshness ; they did not
examine the cause of their liking ; they

VOL. III. F

cursed and said that Dick was a good sort.
When Lord Stanmere with an imperfect
appreciation of his simplicity proposed to
sell him a horse, and Dick never doubting
that he was enlightening the owner felt it
his duty to point out the animal's defects,
the little Lord felt a glow of warm affection.
To have a friend with such an eye
and such a heart was better than the selling
of a hundred screws. With women too this
prosperous young man was a favourite.
His admiration was so open and so guileless
; his good spirits affected them ; there
was so much of the boy left in him, and
enough of manliness also. The sensitive
natures of ladies, who were sighing over
the past, caught youth from Dick. And he
on his side liked the other sex much better
than he had liked them two years ago. He
expected much less from them. He was
heard to say more than once that one
must forgive vanity in women; that they

flirted as birds plumed themselves ; that
it was a very pretty game to watch. He
laughed at danger; he was not afraid to
look lovely ladies in the face ; and his looks
were never offensive. It is worthy of notice
that he talked more often with married
women than with girls. With girls
he was at this time a little shy. Dick
went everywhere, and enjoyed himself;
and if Mr Kirby and some greater political
personages shook their heads over so strange
a training for political life, the world at
large, who had a wholesome faith that there
would always be a sufficient crop of politicians,
cared not a jot whether the pleasant
young man did anything, but smile and
talk and dance and eat their dinners.

In all the whirl and bustle and amusement
of this London life there was one
task which Dick kept steadily before him.
He was always trying to keep a watchful eye
on his cousins Ossie and Betty. Now Ossie

was very successful in eluding the watchful
eye. He was ill at ease with his cousin.
He found it harder to forget one afternoon
in the forest of Belgrade than any other
day or hour of his life ; generally he
had no difficulty in forgetting disagreeable
things. The sight of Dick always reminded
him of something which destroyed his comfort
for the moment ; and so he judiciously
avoided Dick. When he could not avoid
him, he was very cordial ; he talked much
more than in their former colloquies, and
a good deal louder; then he would suddenly
remember an engagement, and take
a hurried leave.

As for Mrs Dodington, her cousin found
it easy enough to keep an eye on her.
Indeed it was difficult to go anywhere —
anywhere, that is, in the regions recognised
by fashionable people — without seeing her.
She went everywhere ; and yet everywhere
she preserved her delightful air of repose.

She never seemed to be coming or going ;
she was always there — smiling lazily, ready
for homage, radiantly beautiful. But though
Dick found it easy to keep an eye on her,
the occupation gave him little pleasure.
Wherever she was, Harold Dolamore was
beside her. Other men came and went
with smiles more or less fatuous and
speeches more or less idiotic ; but Delamere
seemed never weary of attendance.
Dick had never outgrown his distrust of
this polite man with the sleek black head ;
and his distrust was now increasing daily.
He suspected that even this devotion,
which was so unceasingly though quietly
displayed, was not more than half genuine ;
that one great cause of his assiduous attentions
was pleasure in being talked about
with the beauty, who for the time at least
was more admired than any other woman
in London. For Betty since her marriage
had vastly increased the circle of her

admirers, and the depth of their admiration.
They were of all ages and complexions
; and, though the smiles of the
cleverest were perhaps the most fatuous
and their speeches not the least idiotic,
there were distinguished men among them.
Betty was an admirable listener ; and when
she was too lazy to make the effort to
understand a statesman, an author, or a
wit, she murmured so sweet an interest
or smiled so expressively, that the wit,
the author, and the statesman were equally
certain of her rare intelligence. Men were
heard to declare that they liked to talk
to Mrs Dodington, not because she was
pretty, but because she was clever. These
men did most of the talking. The lady
on her side liked to be talked to by clever
men, to be played to by skilled musicians,
to have pretty things brought for her to
see, to be amused and interested. Harold
Dolamore spent a good deal of time and

thought in considering what would be
likely to amuse or interest.

One afternoon, when the season was at
its height, Dick presented himself and the
white flower in his button - hole at Mrs
Spiller's concert. This lady was neither
young, handsome, nor agreeable ; and yet
everybody went to her house, who could
obtain admission. Though very far from
clever, she had been clever enough to put
herself in the hands of the dining wag, who
had a talent for discovering the vague wishes
of society. Under the guidance of her
young friend Mrs Spiller had given a
series of very small parties, aud on each
occasion had provided an expensive novelty.
Each new one had been more successful
than the last. The Slavonic band
had been eclipsed by the songstress of The
Champs Elysees; the songstress, who had
been judiciously toned down for the ,
was forgotten in the excitement

caused by the Count with the second sight ;
and though nothing was said of the disappearance
of some of the lighter specimens
of silver after his wonderful exhibition, the
gifted nobleman himself had been obliged
to yield to the actress, who had driven
an express train, escaped from a tedious
engagement in a balloon, and was reported
to have killed her first husband in a duel.
That Madame Manetti should consent to
sing in a drawing-room, which had been
made famous by this series of exhibitions
surprised many of her friends ; but this
charming singer prided herself on strict
adherence to certain rules, and one of
her rules was that for a certain sum she
would sing in any respectable private
house. She had fixed what she supposed
to be a prohibitory price, for she did not
like singing in the drawing - rooms of
strangers; but Mrs Spiller had not been
deterred, and Madame Manetti had consented

at once to sing. Mrs Spiller's
husband would pay anything on condition
that he was not obliged to be present.
He was understood to be making a gigantic
fortune somewhere in the city. For the
rest his guests cared neither where he was,
nor who he was. Only Lord Marlborough,
who remembered few things and almost
all of those disagreeable, pretended to
recognise in their host a certain Smaller,
sometime valet to his wild uncle, and part
owner of a German sausage shop in Soho.
Whatever may have been the origin and
first calling of Mr Spiller, his large and
florid wife exhibited a noble air as she
welcomed to her concert the very cream of
London Society. So distinguished indeed
were her guests, that they were scarcely
numerous enough to fill the chairs provided
for them. When they were all seated, and
a hum of talk filled the large room, which
was pleasantly shaded, anxiety still possessed

the glowing lady of the house, for
Madame Manetti had not arrived. At last
there was the sound of another brougham
at the door, then a movement on the stairs,
and then two ladies very quietly dressed
came in quickly and went straight to the
piano. Mrs Spiller hovered heavily about
them ; but the singer after a few words
turned from her to the little man, who was
to play her accompaniments. The friend,
whom she had brought with her, slipped
into the recess of the window; and Madame
Manetti turned to the room her delicate
fine face, and the grave mysterious eyes,
which had thrilled so many men and women
in opera-house and concert-room. She was
the musical favourite of the hour ; and her
devotion to her art made her more than
worthy of all her honours.

Before the arrival of the great singer
Dick had found no better occupation than
staring at? the back of Betty Dodington's

head, and observing once more how often
Dolamore bent down to whisper in her
ear. Harold Dolamore had taken no small
trouble to get himself invited to this exclusive
party ; he was very glad to display
his devotion in an atmosphere so full of
inspiration. Dick was angry with this
acquaintance of his boyhood ; a little
angry with Betty; inclined to quarrel
with John Dodington for not going out
more with his wife ; and not quite pleased
with himself for having been some weeks
in London, without having put a stoj^ to
this foolish business. He made up his
mind to speak to Betty seriously at the
first opportunity. When Madame Manetti
entered, his thoughts took a new direction.
He had never before seen her in a room,
and he looked at her with curiosity.
He began to wonder what the life of a
great singer was like, and what she thought
of her fashionable audience, who received

her with a low murmur of welcome. Then
he wondered who the friend was, who had
come in so quietly and screened herself
from observation behind the window -
curtain ; whether she was young or old ;
if she always went about with the Manetti;
what she thought of her, and of the
audience, and of life in general.

From such idle speculations Dick was
aroused by the first note of the singer's
voice. He was not very musical ; but on
this afternoon this voice moved him more
than any music had moved him in his life
before. She sang beautifully, controlling
her voice to suit the limits of the room.
Dick could not appreciate her exquisite
art ; and yet under its influence he almost
forgot where he was. Leaning in the doorway
he closed his eyes, and without meaning
to remember remembered places faraway
— a fig-tree luxuriant over a well —
a cool courtyard set round with pomegranates

— a deck by night, and moonlight
on a summer sea. He almost held his
breath to listen. When the other artists
played or sang, he was restless and inattentive
; but all the time he was beset by
memories. He moved and looked about
him, but he could not shake off the spell.
He was staring open-mouthed at the Manetti,
as she began to sing her last song.
As she finished, people drew breath, and
there was a murmur of real gratitude under
the light clapping of hands. She bowed
and turned away, and at the same moment
her friend emerged from the window-curtains.
Dick was still staring at the singer,
when her friend came before his eyes. He
still stared with eyes wide open, and felt
his cheek grow hot, as he saw Miss Holcroft
before him.

Miss Holcroft glanced for a moment
down the room to the doorway, where
Dick was standing, and then turned quickly

to follow Madame Manetti from the room.
In that moment she had decided that Mr
Hartland hesitated to recognise her, because
she was present in that fashionable assembly,
not as an invited guest, but as the
companion of a singer. She had taught
herself to expect such treatment from
English acquaintance, and had armed herself
to meet it with indifference. Though
she had been some weeks in England and
had found a good deal of kindness, she
was still to some extent on the defensive ;
and she was ready to be more strictly on
the defensive against Dick, than against
all the world beside. In this young Englishman
she had from the first suspected
an excess of self - respect. She had been
bent on seeing in him the arrogance of the
whole class of British landowners, and on
detecting patronage in his politeness to
Americans. She would not submit to
patronage from anybody — least of all from

young men — least of all young men from
Dick. She felt a slight resentment against
this young man.

So soon as Dick had recovered from his
momentary stupefaction, he began to push
his way to the further end of the room.
He kept his eyes fixed on Miss Holcroft,
but she would not look at him again.
Everybody was now in motion, and he
was obliged to advance slowly and with
frequent apologies ; he hardly knew what
he said. As he drew near to the place,
where the Manetti was still detained by
a circle of congratulating ladies, he saw
to his astonishment his cousin Betty take
Miss Holcroft by both hands and begin
to talk with an animation most unusual.
By this time he was near enough to hear
what she said.

"My dear Kitty," Mrs Dodington was
saying, " you must come to us on Sunday ;
my father has lent us his little place on

the river ; we go there from Saturday till
Monday; and you must come; and you
must let me take you to the Raeborough's
on Tuesday, and — I wish you would let
me take you everywhere." To this ardent
appeal Kitty Holcroft only replied by
smiling and shaking her head. '* You
know you ought to go out," said Betty
severely — " and I do so want to be a
chaperon'' At this Kitty laughed.

'* How d'ye do ? " said Dick at her elbow.
Miss Holcroft stopped laughing, as she
gave him her hand, but at once began
talking to Mrs Dodington. He speaks
to me now, she thought, because he sees
that his cousin knows me. She was saying
something to Betty with her gayest
manner ; and now the Manetti made a
sign to her, and she hurried away without
a word or look for the young man,
who stood staring stupidly.

'' What are you dreaming about ? " asked
Betty softly in his ear ; and Dolamore
came to her side with his polite smile,
and suffered his arm, as if it were a matter
of course that he should lead her to
her carriage.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XLIII.

It was not long before it occurred to Dick,
that he had not asked Miss Holcroft about
her father ; nor where she was staying ;
nor how long she would be in London.
She had been whirled away in Madame
Manetti's brougham ; Betty had gone on
Dolamore's arm in search of her carriage ;
and the energetic Mr Hartland had remained
standing without speech or movement,
uncertain, uneasy, even a little confused.
One thing was certain ; he must
lose no time in finding the Holcrofts ;
the merest politeness required so much
attention. He felt that he owed it to
himself to do all, which he could, to

render their stay in London agreeable.
He was glad that Betty was attentive.
He wondered how and where these two
young ladies had become so intimate. He
wondered if Miss Holcroft had been really
very cold to him, or if he had imagined
her coldness. He wondered why she should
snub him. He was certainly less positive
than usual ; he kept on asking himself
the same questions, and finding no final
answers.

After luncheon on the next day Dick
went to Mrs Dodington's house and was
lucky enough to find her at home. Now
it happened that Betty was not thinking of
her American friend, and when she heard
her cousin announced, she decided that he
had come to talk about herself. She was
glad that she was to be talked to ; and she
liked to be talked to about herself. She
had been alone, and a little bored. So she
gave him her sweetest smile, as she allowed

him to shake her hand; and her sleepy eyes
wandered round her boudoir with a comfortable
look, as she leaned back again on the
cushions of her sofa. The rosy light, the
drowsy atmosphere, the soft colours, seemed
to find their natural centre in this beautiful
creature. She was ready to listen ; but she
presently raised her drooping eyelids a little
and looked at her cousin with mild surprise,
for he on his side seemed to be in no hurry
to say anything at all. He felt an unprecedented
shyness ; he thought that it would be
awkwardly abrupt to begin asking questions
about Miss Holcroft. So he presently made
some remarks on trivial subjects, which only
caused Mrs Dodington to yawn ; and after
all, the questions, which he had come to ask,
sounded no less abrupt when at last they
were uttered. . Betty was not very communicative.
She thought that the Holcrofts
would stay some time longer in London ;
she named their hotel ; she thought that

Kitty was awfully nice — so clever and so
pretty, and so amusing. She had met herat
Mrs Kerisen's. Didn't he know that the
Manetti's real name was Marion Kerisen ?
Mrs Kerisen had a delightful husband, who
wrote clever things about everything and
looked after his wife's money matters — and
a delightful father, who had done everything
and been everywhere, and was an old
friend of Mr Holcroft.

Did Miss Holcroft tell you that we
were friends ? " asked Dick.

''I think she said she had seen you,"
said Betty lazily ; " I know she said something
about you. Why don't you go and
call on her now ? You may as well be
civil." She spoke rather pettishly, as if she
had been disappointed of a promised treat.
I hoped you had come to scold me," she
added plaintively after a pause.

Dick began to laugh, but he stopped rather
suddenly. He remembered that it was

only yesterday that lie made up his mind
to scold his charming cousin ; that somehow
since that the whole purpose had vanished
from his mind ; that he had been on
the point of going away without saying a
word about her foolish conduct.

However since Betty herself had introduced
the subject, Dick felt that there was
no time like the present. He had made up
his mind to say certain things to his cousin.
This he regarded as a duty. The pleasure
of renewing his acquaintance with the Hole
of ts he could postpone easily enough. He
assured himself with a moment's pride that
of course he could postpone seeing Miss
Holcroft without a pang — at least without
any feeling deserving so tragic a name. He
turned to Betty with an air of gravity, and
leaned a little forward in his chair as he
spoke. "I will scold you," he said, *'if I
may scold you seriously."

The lady began to smile again, as she

leaned back among her cushions. ^' I shan't
take it seriously," she said softly.

*^ My dear Betty, that's where you are
wrong," said Dick, who was now fairly
launched on the subject ; " some things are
serious, and you have no right to take them
lightly. Marriage is serious ; whether your
husband is happy or not, is a serious question.
You ought to think of Tory."

Think of Jack ! I do think of Jack. I
think he's very stupid."

"Betty!"

But he is," said Mrs Dodington smiling
with a sense of comfort ; " he is stupid. He
hardly says anything."

Perhaps he's afraid of saying too much.
He naturally doesn't wish to say hard things
to his wife."

Why should he say hard things to me ? "
she asked with a childlike manner. "Do
you mean that he doesn't trust me ? " As
Dick did not answer, but only regarded her

with a meditative frown, she added with
dignity, "A husband should have perfect
confidence in his wife'

"That depends on the wife," said Dick
quickly. The lady's dignity was short-lived;
she began to smile again. This conversation
about herself was a luxury, which she
enjoyed thoroughly though placidly. Since
she smiled and said nothing, her cousin
began again. "You can't expect him to
like to hear you talked about."

Yes, I can," she said.

You can ! What do you mean 1 "

He ought to like people to say pretty
things about me."

*' And suppose they say ugly things '? "
said Dick shortly ; " is he expected to like
that?"

"Oh, one must be talked about," said
Betty comfortably. "Everybody's talked
about."

"Not everybody."

*swell," said Betty dreamily, *' Jack's
horrid anyway."

Dick looked at his cousin with some
perplexity. He felt that he was not making
much way; that somehow she rather
enjoyed the interview, but was deriving
little profit from it. Perhaps he enjoyed
it a little himself. He had always found
a peculiar pleasure in lecturing his charming
cousin. He thought that he would startle
her from her comfortable indifference.
There had been silence for some minutes,
when he asked abruptly, — " Do you mean
that you don't love your husband ? "

Of course I love him," she answered
easily ; " but he is horrid."

There came into Dick's head a saying
of his uncle Hervie Langdon about the
uselessness of arguing with women. He
remembered that at the time he had merely
noticed it in passing, as an instance of
the nonsense which men talk about women.

Now he too was beginning to think that
women were unlike men, even to think
sometimes that they were hard to understand.
If he did not understand Betty,
whom he had known from infancy, how
far must he be from the comprehension of
other ladies '? He began to think of John
Dodington, and to wonder how far he
understood his wife. Fearful elements of
tragedy seemed to lie in the possibility of
such a question. From Tory his thoughts
travelled to Harold Dolamore. What a
contrast in men's eyes ! Alas it possible
that women, who had been brought up
among gentlemen, could doubt which of
these two was the better, the more honourable,
the more agreeable ? He had always
supposed that women were much influenced
by looks ; and surely as to the appearance
of these men there could be no comparison.
He pictured to himself Dodington's tall
slender figure and upright carriage, his

fine features and dark well-shaped head ;
and he mentally contrasted them with
Dolamore's sleek black hair, sallow face,
and elaborately reposeful manner. "And
Dolamore ! " he said abruptly. " You
must feel that the fellow is what Ossie
calls — ' A second - rater.' "

Mrs Dodington regarded her cousin
with unruffled equanimity. "He's Ossie's
greatest friend' she said quietly.

"Everybody's Ossie's greatest friend,"
said Dick; "that's nothing."

And I don't know what you mean by
a second-waters'" continued the lady calmly;
"but Harold Dolamore comes of a very
good old family."

I don't care if he's a duke in disguise ;
that's nothing to do with it ; you ought
to know by instinct that he's a man not
to trust too far." He spoke warmly, and
Betty seemed to look to him for an explanation.
"I mean," he continued, "that

he hasn't got an over-nice sense of honour
that he's not quite the thing — it's hard
to explain."

"So it seems," said she sweetly.

Dick looked at his cousin rather helplessly.


"If you mean," she continued gravely,
that his father was unfortunate ; and
that Mr Dolamore is not well off; and
that therefore "

Of course I mean nothing of the sort,"
interrupted Dick.

She only smiled at his abruptness.
Perhaps you mean that he is not a
gentleman '? " she asked.

"Not in the best sense," he answered
sturdily.

"My dear Dick," Betty said gravely
but kindly after a pause, ''if you came

here to abuse my friends " and she

left the sentence unfinished, as she rearranged
herself among her cushions.

** Fm going," said Dick getting up from
his chair.

In a moment she looked up at him, smiling
with renewed good-humour. "After all,"
she said, "it's your fault that I married."

*'My fault!"

Didn't you make me marry Jack ? "

Dick looked down on her, and felt the
hopelessness of the situation. He remembered,
as well as if he had spoken yesterday,
that he had warned her against
marrying John Dodington, unless she was
sure that she cared enough for him ; but,
as he looked down into her honest eyes,
he was sure that she believed that he had
urged her to her marriage. He began to
wonder if all women had an extraordinary
gift of self-deception. He knew that to argue
on this subject would be a mere waste
of words. For a minute his passion for fiict
almost made him speak; but he resisted the
impulse, and shrugged his shoulders.

You might have saved me from this
marriage," she said presently.

I save you ! What do you mean ?
Betty, you mustn't talk like that — as if
your marriage was a mistake. You've the
best husband in the world."

0, yes," she said.

What more do you want ? "

Lots of things," she answered smiling.

For a time he continued to look down at
her, silent, with a slight frown. He could
not understand what she had meant, when
she said that she had looked to him to save
her from her marriage. Probably she had
meant nothing. He was beginning to think
that half the words of women meant nothing.
Perhaps they made a mystery about
themselves with strange speeches, as the
hunted cuttle-fish darkens the water around
him with an ink-like fluid. Wonderful are
the ways of women, and of cuttle-fish I

Well," he said at last, " I must be going ;
good-bye ! "

She held out her hand to him with
a most amiable smile. " And you ain't
angry ? " she asked ; " And you will comedown
to us on Sunday '? You know that
papa is still pottering over his old marbles
in Florence. But he has lent us his house
for the summer. I wish it was larger, for
then we could put you up ; but the Hole
are going down with us from Saturday
to Monday — and the Hurtee Parkinson
and — I forget who — but I know we're
full this week. But you must come down
on Sunday. There are lots of trains."

"I'll try," said Dick— "yes; I think I
can promise."

** And you won't abuse my friends, will
you '? It's wicked to abuse people ; and
besides abuse doesn't amuse me in the
least."

You're too good-natured," said Dick ;
*' good-bye."

As Mr Hartland ran downstairs, he
looked at his watch, and, when he was on
the pavement, he started at his best pace
for the hotel, where the Holcrofts were
staying. He felt an unusual excitement ;
he was sure that there was no time like the
present for getting this visit over. During
his talk with his cousin this thought had
recurred to him several times ; and now he
had started without hesitation. Yet as he
walked, doubts occurred to him. He wondered
if he were not showing too great
eagerness to renew this acquaintance. Pride
began to whisper that, when on the day
before he had made his way to this girl as
to an old friend, she had barely recognised
him. There could be no doubt that she
had snubbed him. Perhaps her manner
had been assumed, and was a mere weapon
of coquetry. If so, was he wise in showing

himself so fit a subject for capricious experiments
? "Would it not be wiser to wait
until she asked him to come and see her '?
She would have a chance of asking him on
Sunday. A day's delay could do no harm.
It seemed to him so clear that he had better
wait, that he wondered how he could have
started to pay this visit ; already it seemed
that all possible arguments where in favour
of a prudent delay. He stood still again,
and looked at his watch ; he thought that
it was too late for a formal visit ; after
such a meeting as that of yesterday his
visit must of course be rigidly formal. He
put his watch in his pocket, and turned
with a defiant swing down a side street,
Which led to his mothers house.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XLIV.

The next morning Dick was possessed by
a strong and most unpleasant belief that he
had behaved badly. It seemed to him certain
that he ought to have called on the
Holcrofts on the previous day. Nothing
had happened, since he had convinced himself
by a string of admirable arguments
that he would be very foolish to make that
visit. Nothing had happened, which could
in the remotest degree affect his conclusion ;
and yet all the arguments now seemed to
be on the other side. He had been wanting
in courtesy to strangers, where he was at
home. It might look as if he were ready to
rush into a friendship abroad, and to slip

out of it Id London. He wondered if she
would think him capable of this. After
all he might have imagined the coldness of
her manner. If she had been wanting in
friendliness, he was ready to admit that it
might have been due to a proper pride, to
a wish to see clearly on what footing he
desired that they should be. If there were
any coldness between them, it was all the
more essential that he should fail in no act
of courtesy. Instead of blaming her for
coquetry, he blamed himself for rudeness.
What must she think of him ? What would
her father think ? He at least had never
shown any caprice. Dick wondered how
he could have failed for a moment to see
that he would have done the rio-ht things
by calling on the Holcrofts without delay.
There were not two sides to the question.

Now as Mr Hartland sat rather gloomy
in his chair and stared at his boots, he perceived
a strange fact. He perceived that,

after due consideration of precisely similar
circumstances on two occasions separated
only by a few hours, he had arrived at
precisely opposite conclusions. Each conclusion
had seemed to be supported by unanswerable
arguments; but one must be
wrong. Now this surprised Dick very
much, because he did not often turn his
attention to this sort of question. He was
not given to the examination of his mental
processes. If anybody had asked him formerly
why he chose one of two courses, he
would have said that of course he weighed
the pros and cons of each, and decided
accordingly. Heretofore he had found little
difficulty in making up his mind what todo.
Now the sudden discovery, that the
weighing of pros and cons had led him to
diametrically opposite decisions, struck him
to a strange solemnity. He thought that
something must be the matter with him.
He got out of his chair, and walked about ;

but he could not escape from this perplexing
fact. Gradually a faint flush stole into
his cheek. It struck him that this peculiar
result of weighing arguments must be due
to the fact that they related to a woman.
He found comfort in the belief that he
would still be able to trust his decisions
about men. But these women 1 How
strange they were ! It seemed to be their
mission to stultify the calculations of the
reasonable sex. Yesterday he had found
so many arguments, and to-day so many ;
but it seemed as if the feeling of the
moment determined which arguments were
to be used. He tried to decide what he
meant by the feeling of the moment. He
supposed that yesterday he must have been
influenced by that mysterious feeling called
pique. And to-day ? What was it which
determined the direction of his arguments
to-day ? It seemed a regretful tenderness.
Was it possible that these changes, these

moods of heat and cold, were that, which
he had read of, all incredulous. Was this
love? It was a very serious question.
Unluckily he could not answer it.

Hervie Langdon would have smiled to
see how his daughter had changed his
charming little house beside the river. It
must be confessed that on the Sunday afternoon,
when Dick Hartland visited it, it had
a rakish air. All the high windows stood
open to the wide verandah. In the diningroom
luncheon had not been cleared away,
for more visitors might yet arrive. From
the drawing - room the most comfortable

o

chairs had been brought out on to the
lawn. On the lawn too a Persian carpet
was outspread, and lesser rugs, and cushions ;
and a great Japanese umbrella was planted
like a tent in the smooth turf. On the
lawn-tennis court, which was hidden from
the river by thick shrubbery, a big basket
of new balls had been upset, and a few

racquets lay here and there. There were
not many people ; and they knew each
other so well, that a pleasant freedom prevailed.
Susan Bond was managing a canoe
with no little strength and skill, while Ossie
threatened to throw pebbles at her. Mrs
Hurtee Parkinson reclined in a long wicker
chair, holding a cigarette between her small
teeth, and letting her eyes wander to Lord
Stanmere, while she listened half amused to
the occasional utterances of Mr Holcroft,
whom she found delightfully quaint and
refreshing. Stanmere clad in white flannel
sat cross-legged on a rug and sipped his
black coffee; while Dolamore reclining
near him lay at the feet of Mrs Dodington.
Betty had finished her coffee, which
she liked, and her cigarette, which she
thought she liked ; and she now sat idle,
looking at the passing river with half-shut
eyes, and smiling. She did not trouble
herself much about her duties as a hostess ;

lie had an undisturbed belief in not making
a fuss— in letting things slide like the
river. " Things always go right," she would
say, ''if you don't bother."

Into the midst of a party so idle and sc
completely at ease Dick came in a mood
of great solemnity. He had been reflecting
seriously on his strange condition. He had
arrived at the conclusion, that it was useless
for him in his present state to argue about
bis feelings for Miss Holcroft. The uselessness
of arguments in this case had been
clearly proved. Therefore he had made up
his mind that he must launch himself, and
be prepared for either fate. He had determined
to go to Betty on Sunday, as she
had asked him ; and he had told himself
that there at the first sound of Miss Hole
voice, or even at the first sight of
her, he should know if he were that strange
elinor — a man in love. It is no wonder
that he stepped out on to the lawn in a

mood of unusual solemnity. A moment
was to decide his fate. He was awestruck.

Dick stepped through the window, and
looked round for the sudden illumination,
which was to reveal his future life. The
next moment he had perceived that there
was to be no sudden illumination at all.
Miss Holcroft was strolling up and down
the lawn with John Dodington ; and when she
saw Dick, she turned to greet him with a
matter-of-course air, as if they had been seeing
each other every day for weeks past. It
seemed as if she had forgotten her displeasure
at the concert. Her grey eyes were
bright with interest ; her delicate cheek was
a little flushed ; her lips were smiling. She
looked very pretty, and even Dick noticed
how well and how neatly she was dressed.

"0 Mr Hartland," she said, "I am so
glad you have come ; I want you to tell
me about this. Is this your English Sunday
1 I am perfectly amazed."

'' Do you like it 1 " asked Dick, who
was looking at her with perplexity. It
seemed so natural to be talking to her in
this light fashion, that he could hardly believe
in his solemnity of the minute before.

'*I am not sure," she said, pursing her
lips in a meditative manner : " it reminds
me of Newport ; but they don't dare to
go so far at Newport ; there one's neighbours
overlook one's lawn."

'but do you like it?"

'^ I don't know. I am afraid that there
is a little of the Puritan left in me — that
the scent of the Mayflower clings round
me still. But it is very interesting. And
you haven't answered my question. Mr
Dodington won't tell me ; I believe he
thinks that I am gathering materials fora
book. Is this the common English
Sunday ? "

*not where one's neighbour overlooks
one's lawn."

Ah ! " she said, " the English worship
of appearances ! And the river 1 "

"This is a quiet reach," said Dick,
^' and we are half screened by the shrubbery."


Dodington strolled away to the water's
edge ; and as Miss Holcroft began to walk
up and down again, Dick could not help
going with her. She said nothing, but
he noticed that she never passed Betty
without looking at her and the young
man at her feet. When they had passed
them two or three times, Miss Holcroft
turned to her companion with raised eyebrows
and a little laugh. "He is very
devoted," she said.

And do you like that too '? " asked Dick
rather sharply.

Don't you ? " she asked, still smiling.

"No."

She looked at the young man, as if she
was amused by his abruptness. "0 Mr

Hartland," she said, shaking her head
at him, " I feel sure that you lecture your
cousin."

Did Betty tell you so ? "

No. Instinct tells me. But you are
right not to confess it. It would be giving
yourself away. Isn't a young man, who
lectures ladies, terrible ? "

Do you think they never need it ? "
He laughed as he spoke ; but he was by
no means pleased with their conversation.
He was annoyed with her for noticing
this foolish flirtation, and still more annoyed
with her for speaking of it to
him ; he told himself that she really was
a frivolous girl, and he began to feel
gloomy.

'you look as if you were going to
lecture me," she said. '* Is it true that
in England men really think themselves the
superior sex 1 It's very droll. But you
must not find fault with your cousin, when

you talk to me. She has been very kind
to me, and I am very fond of her."

If you liked her' said Dick rather
grimly, " you wouldn't like this ; " and
he nodded to the place, where Betty sat
listening to Dolamore's half - whispered
words.

"Oh, I like flirtations," said Miss Hole
with her little mutinous air — " other
people's flirtations. Society would be insufferably
dull without them ; they are
comedies without the smell of the footlights
; I love comedies."

And what if they turn into tragedies ?
I did not know that young ladies in America
were so advanced as to approve of married
women's flirtations." He spoke with some
bitterness. She looked at him quickly with
her delicate eyebrows arched, and her lip
pouted a little. He knew in an instant
that his speech had offended her. She
said nothing, but she walked across the

lawn to the side of Mrs Dodington's chair ;
she looked at Dolamore, who rose at her
approach, and Betty received her with her
sweetest smile.

Dick stood alone and looked after the
perplexing young lady, who had just left
him. He thought that he was fated to say
the wrong thing to her ; fated to offend her ;
fated never to understand her. Surely if
she chose to talk lightly of a married friend's
flirtation, she had no right to resent his
plain-speaking. Was her resentment assumed,
a mere move in the game of flirtation
1 When he thought of her cleverness
and experience of fashionable life, he was
almost compelled to answer Yes. And yet
there was something so fresh and neat
about her, so maidenly an air, that, as he
looked, he could not but believe in the
sweetness of her thoughts, and the candour
of her face.

Dick standing alone and serious felt

presently a light touch on his arm, and
turning found Miss Susan Bond. She too
was looking in the direction of Betty Dodington
and her attendant cavalier.

'rare you suffering from the pangs of
remorse 1 '' asked Miss Bond in a low
voice.

What for ? " asked Dick.

You know' she said ; — " you know
very well that you ought to have married
Betty."

"What'

*you ought to have married Betty; I
never could understand why you didn't.
Didn't you approve of cousins marrying 1 "

"My dear Miss Bond," said Dick, who
was now recovering from his astonishment,
there never was a thought of such a thing.
I can't think where you hit on such an
idea."

Miss Susan Bond confident in her worldly
wisdom shook her head. " You try to make

me believe too much," she said. " Do you
mean to say that Betty never thought of it ?
Oh, don't be vain I She's never been in
love in her life. But she did think of it.
She thought that you would save her from
this other marriage." She almost used
Betty's own words of the day before. Dick
stared at her in amazement.

'' No," he said ; " you must be wrong. I
should have known — I should have guessed

I No ; it's absurd. I used to be

rather hard to her ; I used to scold her."

And don't you know that, when a young
man scolds a young woman, it's flirtation ? "

*^No."

Miss Bond looked at Dick curiously ; " I
really do believe you don't," she said after
her scrutiny — " how strange you are ! "

CHAPTER XLV.

Though Miss Holcroft had seemed to dismiss
Mr Hartland and his unlucky remark
with a single look, yet his words haunted
her. Whenever they came back to her, she
was angry with him who had said them.
What right had he to say such things to
her 1 What right had he to look with
gravity on a harmless flirtation — to speak
and look as if his own cousin, who was so
charming, could be in real danger ? " It is
so like a man," the young girl said to herself.
She was indignant with him for
brinmno: near her thoughts which seemed
to poison friendship, to dull the beauty of

VOL. III. I

life, to taint the purity of the air. She
told herself that it would be long before
she could forgive this young man for speaking
to her, as if she were capable of regarding
the wickedness of the Avorld with a
smile and a shrug ot the shoulders.

It must be confessed that Miss Holcroft
was hard on Dick. His offence was not
very grave. If she had discovered that he
believed in her ignorance of the fact that
mischief and misery did sometimes spring
from idle flirtation, she would have been
angry with him for thinking her a fool.
She thought that she had lived a very
long time, and had seen a great deal of
the world in her two seasons ; she did
not at all like to be confounded with the
ingenue of Parisian Comedy ; she was
always ready to resent any confusion with
this improbable child. But though she
knew that there were domestic tragedies,
as she knew that the world moves round

the sun, she had realised the one fact as
little as the other. For her the sun rose
in the morning, and sailed aloft, and
descended Westward at even ; and for her
no less the young married women, whom
she had known in her native land, had
risen at noon to receive graceful attentions,
and had danced down the evening hours,
without arousing a thought of the possibility
of evil. She had thought many of
them very silly, and wondered how they
could devote their whole lives to the same
amusements. That Alas another matter.
She had watched the gay world, as a clever
innocent child might watch the play of
marionnettes ; she had noted the flirtations
of matrons as if they meant no more than
the natural pretty movements of birds ;
she had been proud of noting them before
other people — proud of her quickness, and
of her worldly wisdom forsooth. Then she
had grown tired of these little games, and

of all the attentions and flowers and pretty-speeches,
which she had herself received ;
and she had begged to be taken away that
she might see new and more important
things in the old world. But though she
was tired for a time of the business of
fashionable society, and was inclined to
despise the women of her acquaintance who
seemed never to tire of it ; it had never
occurred to her to connect the tragic tales,
of which faint whispers sometimes reached
her ears, with the amusements of any
woman, whom she knew. She would have
shrunk from the bare idea as from the basest
treason. Nothing of the sort had ever come
near her life, or thrust itself on her notice.
Indeed the Society, in which this young
lady of New England had played her part
so prettily, might have been blamed by the
severe for frivolity or extravagance ; but
even the most severe and most inquisitive
would have found little else to blame.

Even the giddiest of American women
seem to be born with a peculiar power of
taking care of themselves ; even idle American
men respect, as a rule, the wives and
sisters of their friends. The gay world,
which Miss Holcroft had viewed with interest
and amusement, was not a wicked
world ; and she for all her cleverness had
looked on it with innocent eyes. Moreover
her OAvn instinct and her father s care had
kept her from close friendship with those
of the married women, whose talk might
have blown away the most delicate bloom
of her fastidiousness. Now she was angry
with Dick. It seemed to her that she had
come to a wicked old Europe, where pretty
follies were malignantly misconstrued ;
where men were not ashamed to be suspicious
of their nearest kin ; where she
could not enjoy her own quick sight without
being supposed to regard wickedness
with unbecoming levity. She was angry

with this wicked old Europe — and angry
too with Mr Richard Hartland.

'' Men have horrid minds," said Miss
Holcroft to her father, as they sat together
in their parlour in the hotel. " Undoubtedly,"
answered he with his most amiable
smile, as he dropped his paper on his knees
and waited. " And papa," she continued,
'^ I am writing to Paris to hurry my new
gowns. I mean to go out a little."

Mr Holcroft whistled softly. '' Shall I
have to go round with you ? " he asked.

No," she said ; "I am going out with
Mrs Dodington. You know how she has
begged to be my chaperon."

Mr Holcroft continued to regard his
daughter, but his face was graver. "Is
not Mrs Dodington somewhat young and
beautiful for a chaperon, and somewhat —
somewhat flirtations 1 "

papa dear," she said, 'you know that
I can take care of myself. I am going to

take care of myself, and of my chaperon
too. I have a plan." She went and leaned
over the back of his chair, and as he looked
up at her, his smile came back.

"0 you have a plan, Kitty," he said;
^' of course if you have a plan, I know my
part, as Hamlet says. As to your taking
care of yourself, I would trust you anywhere
and every time. You know that."

'' Thank you papa," she said and she bent
down to kiss his forehead.

You have a fine area for selection," he
said laying his hand on the bald top of his
head. " And so you have had enough of
poets painters and novelists, and our dear
Madame Manetti ? "

*' No," she said emphatically ; " but I
have a plan."

Whatever Miss Holcroft's plan might be,
it is certain that the pleasure of vexing
Dick was only a secondary inducement.
He would without doubt take her much

closer intimacy with his cousin as another
proof of the essential levity of her character
; and this consideration made her smile.
She determined to stand by Betty, who
had been so kind to her ; who was so
beautiful ; of whom none but horrid men
would dare to think ill ; whom in a
moment of excessive admiration she had
declared to be *' as sweet and lovely as she
can be' Betty Dodington on her side had
not been slow in returning the affection of
this new friend. She said that her dearest
Kitty was the most amusing creature whom
she had ever met. She delighted in her
stories of American society, and in her
fresh and lively comments on things English.
She insisted on learning the most
piquant Transatlantic expressions, and even
such few fragments of the strange language
of the Great Mayest, as the Boston young
lady could teach her. When Kitty at last
consented to see something of London

Society under her care, the dignified chaperon
was as pleased as a child with a new
toy. She declared that she had been dying"
to be a duenna, and she prepared to play
the important part with the utmost lightness
of heart.

Every day the two young women were
more and more together. Every day
Kitty was more successful in amusing and
interesting Betty. Betty did not grow
tired of the new part, which she was playing;
and Kitty enjoyed going out in an unknown
world, and finding herself as popular
as in her own. Neither their styles clashed
nor their dresses ; and men found it hard to
decide which they liked best. But if Miss
Holcroft was popular with the youth of the
day, there was one of them who did not
like her. Dolamore found it more and
more difficult to talk to Mrs Dodington
without the irritating presence of her new
friend. Nor did Miss Holcroft like Harold

Dolamore. It was perhaps a little inconsistent
of her to be angry with Dick for
looking with suspicious eye on Dolamore's
attentions, and to be angry with Dolamore
for persisting in these attentions which she
maintained to be so harmless. However
she did not trouble herself about her inconsistencies.
She allowed herself to dislike
the polite young man, though she was
careful not to say a word against him to
her dear Betty. She felt sure that Dick
had abused Dolamore to his cousin ; but
this was only to be expected from the
clumsiness of a man ; she was glad that
she could not make such a mistake.

One day when she was rather later than
she had meant to be, she met Dolamore
coming away from Mrs Dodington's door.

My dear Betty'' she said when she had
run up-stairs, " he had an air of melodrama.
yes, he stopped and said something polite,
but he had an air of melodrama."

Betty was flushed and happy ; she had

been irritating: an admirer. '^ He abused
me because you are always here. Isn't
that impertinent ? "

"Doesn't he like me V asked Kitty
taking off her cloak. She was well aware
that he did not.

My dear, he almost lost his temper. It
was such fun. He looked positively hideous
for a moment."

Really ? Isn't he considered good-looking
? I think him handsome — not uncommon
; — one sees too many men in the streets
of London with shiny black hair and little
black moustaches ; it's not very English.
But he is considered handsome, isn't he ? "

*' A great many women admire him very
much indeed."

Really ? Betty, how long have you
had that beautiful gown 1 Why have I
never seen it before ? " And so the talk
glided away for that time from the fascinations
of Mr Harold Dolamore.

CHAPTER Xlvi.

The progress of time did little to soften
the feelings, with which Mr Dolamore regarded
the young American lady, to whose
society he was doomed so often. He did
not forget to be scrupulously polite, though
with all his heart he wished her away. It
is even to be feared that he sometimes
swore under his sleek moustache, when he
thought of her liveliness and quick glances.
Ah ! " he exclaimed one day, as he was
ushered into Mrs Dodington's drawing-room,
*^ may I say that I am glad to j&nd
you alone for once 1 " He dropped his
voice, as he asked, to his softest tone ;
but even as he spoke, Miss Holcroft turned

with her brightest smile from the window,
where she had been half hidden by a
curtain.

I am so sorry, Mr Dolamore," she said ;
'but I can't go till my father comes forme."


'' don't go," said Betty sweetly smiling;
"tea will come in a moment." Then
Harold Dolamore, who had been at a loss
for a minute, expressed his hope that he
would not drive Miss Hole oft away.

''Do you really hope that 1 " asked
Kitty. "How veris kind!"

He knows," said Betty still smiling
her sweetest, "that if he ever drove you
away, I should never forgive him." In
recognition of this speech the gentleman
bowed to Mrs Dodington, and then showed
his teeth politely to her friend.

Do you know, dear," said Kitty, " that
I am alarmed by Mr Dolamore. He is so
polite — almost too polite for an Englishman."

Then she turned to him with her
frankest smile, and added, 'you remind
me of an American."

Very much flattered, I am sure," he
murmured after a minute, and bowed.

*' Are you really ? I was afraid that
you would not like it."

You take me for one of your ' leisure
class ' I hope '? " he asked after a pause.
He smiled his best, but there was a slight
cynical inflection on the American phrase.

*' Why do you hope that ? " she asked
quickly in turn with an air of sweet simplicity.
" Are you proud of doing nothing
? You don't do anything, do you —
except of course make yourself very agreeable
at tea-time ? "

The grin, with which he answered, was
rather wolfish. " Of course I can't do
anything," he said.

You should have said that you did
nothing but answer questions," cried Kitty

brightly; "and then I should have felt
dreadfully snubbed. I have got into a
dreadful habit of asking questions, since I
came to Eno-land. You ought to correct
me, Betty'

"0 no," said Betty; "I like you well
enough as you are."

Then Dolamore began to address his remarks
more directly to Mrs Dodington ; but
she every other minute appealed lazily to
Kitty with a look or monosyllable. And
Kitty being by this time in a gay mood
made quaint comments on the trivial
events of the hour, and was talkative, and
even began to ask more questions. At
last the gentleman rose in no good humour
to say good-bye. He bent over Mrs Dodington
and asked her some question in a
low voice ; but the lady answered him
aloud. " no," she said ; "I shouldn't
like it."

'* Then you won't come," he said with

an assumption of indifference. He turned
rather quickly to the door, and seemed to
have forgotten Miss Holcroft's presence.
There was nobody in the hall to let him
out, and the moment's delay while he
fumbled with the door-handles made him
swear savagely.

'^ Is he angry 1 " asked Kitty innocently.

I don't know, and I don't care,"
answered Betty. " What did he mean by
not saying good-bye to you '? He's rude
and horrid.'^

"I daresay he did not mean to be rude.
Perhaps he only forgot my existence''

"As if he could forget you ! I don't
care if he meant it or not. He's silly when
he gives himself airs."

Then Kitty came and knelt down by the
head of Betty's sofa. " You have been so
sweet to me," she said, "that I won't drive
your friends away. I won't come here anymore."


At this declaration Mrs Dodington was
so startled, that she sat upright and
opened her beautiful eyes wide. " Kitty ! "
she cried ; " if you stay away for a single
day, ril never forgive you. As if I didn't
like you a thousand times better than him ! "

Kitty had awaited the answer with much
anxiety, and when it came, it was very
sweet in her ears. She felt a glow of
triumph, as she gratefully said, — '' Do you,
dear ? I am so glad'' Then they kissed
each other, and Betty leaned back again
among her cushions. *' It's silly of him,"
she said presently, "to do nothing but
dangle about at five - o'clock teas. He
ought to emigrate, or something."

"You would miss him dreadfully," said
Kitty, with an air of certainty.

Not in the least," said Betty. " If he
thinks that, he's very much mistaken.
He's not at all amusing, when he gives
himself airs. I think I rather hate him."

VOL. III. K

"0 Betty I''

I do. Fm sure I rather hate him.
Kitty, I've got the most delightful idea.
Leave that stuffy hotel, and come and stay
here with me''

Why, it would be perfectly splendid ! "
cried Kitty with enthusiasm. " But," she
added after a minute, " I can't leave
papa."

Of course not. He must come too.
He's a dear — as great a dear as my father ;
and Jack likes him awfully — and you too.
I think I shall be jealous." Betty smiled
comfortably, as she made this melancholy
prophecy ; and Kitty laughed, as she said,
" But you would soon grow tired of me
too."

"No, dear," said Betty with certainty;
and upon this, having nothing particular to
say, they kissed each other again. Then
they drank their tea together with much
satisfaction ; and before they parted, they

had settled that Kitty should be Betty's
guest. Neither of these ladies, since no
male ears were there, made any serious
pretence of expecting the refusal of her
legitimate guardian.

Harold Dolamore found the new state of
things intolerable. He was surprised by
the strength of his own feelings. His
vanity was wounded, but the sharpness
of the pain made him think that he was
victim of a more dangerous passion than
vanity. He was even afraid of making a
fool of himself in the eyes of the world ;
and, since the chief object of his life was
to maintain the reputation of always doing
the right thing, he did not dare to run the
risk of appearing ridiculous. It made him
cold to think what fools sagacious men had
been under the impulse of passion. He
determined to put an end to the situation
without delay. He went to see Mrs Dodington,
preparing himself for the probability

that it would be for the last time.
The visit was short, and as he left the
house, he met Miss Holcroft, who was
returning from shopping with her maid.
''I am fortunate," he said, *ein being able
to say good-bye." The words were perhaps
ambiguous, but the manner was very
polite; and Miss Holcroft saw something
in his face, which stopped the quick answer
on her tongue. " I have found something
to do," he continued. '' They Ve offered mea
little thing at Cairo; — it's a very little
thing, but better than tea-parties. I hoped
that you would congratulate me."

*' So I do," she said. '' I am very glad."
No doubt," he said. He raised his hat,
and began to move away; but before she
could go, he had turned back again, and
now he was smiling. " After all I hope
that it is only cm revoir'' he said. "I
shall find you here, when I have spoiled
the Egyptians."

'* Tm afraid not," she answered, looking
at him curiously. She felt that he was
going to say something, which she would
not like. Her maid had gone into the
house ; she would have liked to run after
her maid ; but Dolamore at least saw no
sign of her trouble; she looked at him
with quiet expectation.

'' I hope I shall j&nd you," he said
dropping his voice to a confidential tone ;
I hope I am not indiscreet ; I shall certainly
write my congratulations from Cairo.
I really do hope that I am not saying what
I ought not ; but when you came to London
after what we had all heard from the
Levant, we all hoped that you would stay
here — I am sure that everybody hoped so

and that our friend Dick ah ! I

see I have said the wrong thing ; please
forgive me ; I meant well ; and — goodbye."


For a minute she stood looking after

him, as he went quickly away ; the tears
had come to her eyes and her lips were
trembling ; she felt as if he had struck her,
like a coward. Then her own bravery came
back to her, and scorn of him. He was
going ; that was the one thing which mattered
; she was determined to be glad.
She ran up-stairs to her friend with her
heart full of gratitude. '' Betty darling ! "
she cried, as soon as she was in the room —
"what is it, dear' She was frightened
by her friend's strange looks. Betty was
leaning against the mantelpiece, pale and
with trembling lips. Kitty went to her,
and drew her away to the sofa with gentle
authority. "Dear," she said, "has he
frightened you ? " And now the colour
was coming back to Betty's cheeks, as she
leaned against the young girl's shoulder.
"He has been cruel," she said presently,
and horrid. He has said dreadful things,
which he had no right to say. Kitty, he

said that I had encouraged him ! " Kifcty was
very angry with the man. At the moment
she would have declared without hesitation
that her friend had never flirted, nor been
capable of flirtation, even in its most harmless
form.

"And Kitty— he swore!"

'^I always knew that he was not a
gentleman''

Did you, dear ? " asked Betty, who was
returning to her normal level of serenity.
"I thought you rather liked him. You
used to defend him, I'm sure."

Did I, dear ? " asked Kitty. " Anyway
he's going."

"Yes; and I am glad of it," said Betty
solemnly. " He was horrid, and he looked
positively hideous. How you could ever
say that he was handsome ! "

It doesn't matter what he looks like.
Nothing matters except that he is going.
He's going ; and I am so happy."

*' Why Kitty, what's the matter ? Are
you crying '? "

'' Only because I am glad ; I'm tired
and glad. Betty, what a pity there are
men in the world ! "

"It's that horrid man that's made you
cry," said Betty. *' I hate him."

At this Kitty kissed . her. " So do I
hate him," she said.

"Why, Kitty, I thought "

I hate him ; I hate him," said Kitty,
sobbing. Then they both cried a little,
and comforted one another.

Meanwhile Mr Richard Hartland had
been working himself into an unpleasant
state of mind. It seemed to him that
the two young women, in whom he felt
keen interest, had formed a league for no
better purpose than frivolous amusement
and flirtation with dangerous men. Wherever
he saw them, the most popular men
surrounded them, and Dolamore, whom he

liked least, was the most unwearied in his
attentions. Dick frankly told himself that
he did not understand women. His occasional
doubts of his power of reading them
were changed into a certainty of his ignorance.
He looked with languid interest at
Susan Bond, who seemed to be re-establishing
her influence over Ossie. He wondered
if she meant to marry him ; and if so,
whether she would succeed. He did not
prophesy ; and he was still further from
any disposition to interfere. Ossie had
given up appealing to him for assistance
in his passing troubles. He felt for a
time as if he was of little use to anybody;
and this was a feeling which was
very unpleasant to this energetic and
confident young man.

But though he admitted his ignorance of
women, Dick persuaded himself that he had
grasped one truth, which was useful to him.
He declared to himself with unnecessary

iteration that Miss Holcroft's close alliance
with his cousin proved her beyond all possibility
of doubt an essentially frivolous
young lady. '' Charming of course," he
said to himself, " but absolutely frivolous,
as I always in my heart believed." He
had not always believed it, but he almost
persuaded himself that he had. He avoided
the Toringtons' house, where he protested
to himself that he could do no good. He
had spoken to his cousin, and if his speaking
had produced any effect, it had made
her bolder in carrying on her unlucky
flirtation and in defying the opinion of her
acquaintance. He had debated whether
it would be of any use to make others
speak to her. His own mother was too
far removed from this wicked world. He
knew that, if he told her of Betty's levity,
he would pain her deeply and to no purpose
; for he knew equally well that Betty
would put aside her aunt's warnings as due

to her old-fashioned ideas and seclusion
from modern life. He could not help
knowing this, for he had seen her often
enough, when she was a child, accept her
scolding with perfect serenity and affection
and a comfortable certainty that the
reprimands of elders were part of the
natural order of things. If Mrs Hartland
was too unworldly to produce any effect
on her beautiful niece, Lady Marlborough
seemed to Dick equally ineffectual though
for the opposite reason. She was in the
centre of her whirlpool, and all her splendid
energies were devoted to the management
of a rapid and encroaching society. To
Dick in his present mood she seemed one
of the most worldly, eminent among the
frivolous, scarcely able to spare a moment
for listening to his doubts and fears, and
certain to dismiss them with a lauofh. To
women it was useless to turn. Of menthe
one, who ought to interfere with ]airs

Dodington's conduct was undoubtedly her
husband. Bat Dick had not yet abandoned
his belief in his ability to read men at least
at a glance ; and he knew well that John
Dodington would choose to understand no
man, who hinted suspicion of his wife.
There was something in John Torinsjton,
which Dick respected as chivalry and condemned
as pride, which made it impossible
to speak to him on this subject; and Dick
was certain too that this same quality had
prevented him from finding fault with
Betty. Indeed this young husband treated
his wife from first to last with a respect,
which she but half appreciated, and a perfect
show of confidence, which she accepted
as a matter of course. His pain was endured
in silence, and he spoke of it to nobody in
the world. Indeed Dick was at his wits'
end. He was alarmed by a strong impulse,
which came to him more than once, to
seize Harold Dolamore by the smooth

throat or hit him a crack over the sleek
head. After all Dick was still young.
Such a course of action would have done
little to re-establish his influence over his
beautiful cousin, and still less to silence the
whispers of the scandalous.

CHAPTEK XLVII.

At last Dick made up his mind to do something.
He was not much pleased with his
purpose, but it was better than nothing.
He wrote to Hervie Langdon, who still lingered
in Florence in spite of the growing
heat. He took great pains with his letter,
and when he had sent it, he felt happier,
and less inclined to tear Dolamore to pieces.
He awaited the effect with comparative
patience. The effect was quickly apparent.
Late in a still sultry afternoon, when Dick
was sitting moody in the den, which was
reserved for him in his mother's little house,
the door opened and his uncle entered. Mr
Land-don looked strong and well, and, as his

nephew faced him with words of welcome,
he regarded him with keen humorous eyes.
"What's the matter, Dick my boy?" he
asked ; " are you ill 1 "

"No' said Dick, "I'm all right. I'm
always well."

You don't look so well as you are meant
to look," said Hervie Langdon holding him
by the shoulders ; " and you wrote me such
an odd letter, that I thought you must be
in for a fever, or had fallen in love. And
if you are free from both these maladies,
may I ask why you have dragged me from
Italy, where I was for once doing something
useful ? "

But there is something the matter," said
Dick rather sharply ; " I told you in my
letter; you know what I mean; Betty "

Here he was interrupted by one of Mr
Hervie Langdon's surprising bursts of laughter.
"My dear boy," said he when he
Alas capable of speech, "it is exquisitely

comical of you to establish yourself as
guardian of a young married woman."

"I cant see that; it seems to me perfectly
natural ; nobody else seems to care
what " Here he stopped in astonishment,
for his extraordinary uncle was laughing
again though with less abandonment.

*rand you lectured her, no doubt," said
Hervie Langdon ; " and you argued with
her."

Nobody else said anything ; so I "

'* Yes ; I knew it. My dear boy, it's time
you learned not to argue with women."

I hope I shall never be stopped by
phrases of that sort," said Dick shortly.
It ought to be easy enough to make a
woman see a thing as one sees it one's self."

Then you succeeded with Betty ? " asked
her father with respectful interest.

No," answered his nephew honestly.

"My dear boy," said Mr Langdon with a
pleasantly didactic manner, *' don't argue

with a woman. If your intimacy permit,
kiss Tier ; appeal to lier affection for you,
if she have any. Don't argue with her
except about trifles; with a woman argument
is a luxury ; she likes it, but she
never allows it to influence her actions.
She may try to make it influence yours ;
it's good enough for that. If she does
try, don't answer; be as affectionate as
your position warrants, and go away and
do what she advises you not to do ; then
come back and be affectionate again. When
the thing is done, it's ten to one she'll come
over to your side ; she has a weakness for
accomplished facts ; all the deep conservatism
of her nature compels her softly to
acquiescence in that, which you have done ;
she forgets in an hour all her admirable arguments
against it. Some day you will hear
her say that you followed her advice in that
matter, and that if you were always equally
wise you would be always equally fortunate."

VOL. III. L

While Hervie Langdon was delivering
himself of this brief homily and smiling
under his beard with enjoyment of his own
advice, Dick stared at him with surprise
and disapproval. He was shocked that his
uncle should indulge in airy generalities
about the sex, while he ought to be filled
with anxious inquiries about his own child.
Here was another careless person in a careless
world. '' Then you won't speak to
Betty ? " he asked seriously.

I have spoken to her," said Hervie
Langdon, *' and I have done more : I have
given her a box of sweetmeats from Boissier.
What a charming girl she has staying with
her ! "

Dick felt himself blush under his uncle's
eye, and was furious with himself, and
with his uncle. *' You take it all quietly
enough ! " he cried hotly. " If you heard
what people say; if you saw that fellow
Dolamore "

I can't see him, for he has gone."

Gone V echoed the other in amazement.

Gone to be deputy assistant something
to somebody at Cairo. I asked Betty about
him among other people, and she told me
of his appointment ; she was busy searching
for a particular species of sweetmeat ;
she cared a great deal more for that particular
sweetmeat than for the plausible young
gentleman, who left yesterday for Egypt."

''I am so awfully glad," said Dick.
And she doesn't miss him ? She doesn't
care a bit ? "

Not a chocolate ! " said Hervie Langdon.
Then he looked more gravely at his nephew.
"Dick," he said, "you've been having too
much London ; or you've been falling into
love — or some other gouty affection. I
shouldn't have expected you to be suspicious.
Have you been finding out for yourself that
girls betray ? It seems strange that you
should become a suspicious person."

Dick began to feel a little ashamed of
himself. " Perhaps I've been a fool," he
said. " I couldn't stand knowing that
people said things. I never thought — of
course I never thought "

"My poor dear Marion's daughter and
your mother's niece could not be other
than a good woman," said Hervie Langdon
gravely. " You ought to have felt that ;
and" — and here he began to laugh again
" you ought not to have dragged me
back from Florence for nothing."

Of course if I'd known that Dolamore
was going," began Dick-you

ought to have found out. But
no matter ! Betty's the gainer after all.
She's very fond of M. Boissier's sweetmeats.
Come and see her now with me ; she won't
have gone to dress ; young people nowadays
dine at unheard-of hours."

Dick stood undecided. He had avoided
the Toriiigtons' house for some time past.

Now he thought he would allow himself to
be taken there ; it would seem natural that
he should appear with his uncle, and strange
if he refused to go with him. He had not
seen Miss Holcroft for two whole days ;
he surely might allow himself to be taken
to the house where she was staying. Dick
was falling into a new habit of trying experiments
on himself. " Come along ! " said
Hervie Langdon, and his nephew followed
him dutifully.

As Mr Langdon and Dick were walking
towards the Toringtons' house, the quick
eyes of the younger man saw smoke above
the house-tops. "Hullo!" he said, "where's
that smoke coming from 1 " As he spoke,
he quickened his pace ; and Hervie Langdon
hurried after him. '^ It can't be far off,"
said Dick again. A few minutes' quick
walking brought them to the corner of the
street, in which the Toringtons lived ; and
at this corner they were stopped by a dense

mass of backs. Without delay however Mr
Langdon began to push his way vigorously
to the side of one of the policemen, who
were keeping back the gaping crowd. A
few words passed between the constable
and the new-comers, and Her vie Langdon
and Dick knew that the house, to which
they were hurrying, was on fire. There
was no time for debate. As soon as they
were freed from the crowd, ]mr Langdon
started down the empty street at a brisk
run ; but .Dick few by him and dashed
into the front door, through which a little
stream of men were carrying out such
household goods, as came to hand. Just
inside the door he met Mr Holcroft, who
smiled upon him from beneath an armchair,
which he was carrying on his upright
head. A quick feeling of relief came
to Dick, as he met this open smile. *' Where
is she ? " he asked breathlessly.

Mr Holcroft seemed to have no doubt to

whom this question referred. 'next door,"
he answered, with a slight movement of his
arm-chair to the right.

She's not hurt ? ''

No. Thank heaven ! Nobody is hurt.
It's only the roof that's on fire ; and everybody's
out''

And Betty and Tory ? "

At a garden - party somewhere. Poor
young people ! " The tall gentleman spoke
in a very sympathetic tone ; but his face
wore its most common expression of easy
good - nature, as he descended calmly
into the street, coates and with a silken
arm-chair in place of his hat. Before he
could carry this rescued piece of goods into
the next house, Dick had dashed into it
eager to see and to help. The firemen had
declared that there was no fear of the fire
spreading to a second house ; and so the
hall of these kindly neighbours was already
half full of the Toringtons' portable goods,

which were being arranged in piles and
groups under the direction of Miss Holcroft.
The young lady was flushed and her eyes
were shining, as with quick hands she
received the lighter things or pointed to
the proper place of some heavy piece of
furniture. She greeted Dick with her
kindest look.

What can I do ? " he asked.

"Nothing," she answered, without stopping
in her work for a moment ; *' there are
too many people already moving things.
You are too late, Mr Hartland — for once."

Can't I help you to arrange them ? "

She shook her head ; she found time to
look at him for a moment with that look,
a little mocking, a little malicious, which
reminded him of a spoiled child. " The
hall is too full of people already," she
said.

"I am to go then?" he said.

"Go up on to the roof, and see if they

are beating the fire. You Avon't be in anybody's
way ; the firemen are on the roof of
the other neighbour, where they can see
better. Mr Langdon's there — Mr Ossie."
Dick watched her for a minute, wondering at
the skill and quickness of her little arrangements.
Looking up and seeing him still
there, she gave him a little nod, and raised
her eyebrows questioning. He thought that
her face looked very sweet and true, and
he wondered if he only fancied that the
flush deepened on her cheek. Something
almost made him shout aloud, as he sprang
up the strangers' stairs to find his way to
the roof.

Meanwhile the Toringtons were driving
peacefully homeward from their garden-party.
The evening was warm and almost
breathless; and Betty leaned back in her
Victoria with a sense of repose, of satisfaction
with things in general and with herself
in particular. She felt very good.

Her husband and she had gone to this
garden-party, like Darby and Joan ; and it
had turned out to be very domestic, and
soothing, and pleasant. She thought that
all men, except Jack, were horrid ; and
that flirtation was very silly. She could
not imagine what could be the Q-ood of
flirtation ; she wondered how Nellie Hurtee
Parkinson could go on, as she did ; she
felt very superior. The truth is that Mrs
Dodington was only just recovering from
the fright, which Harold Dolamore's strange
looks and words had caused at their last
interview. She had been very much frightened
; she would never forget how he
had frightened her; she would never forgive
him. Her easy happy nature had
never experienced so rude a shock. She
had not told her husband of the uncomfortable
things, which Dolamore had said to
her ; but the recollection of them made her
feel Jack's presence by her side as an indispensable

luxury. She smiled to herself
because he was there. She felt that there
was nothing like a husband ; and she felt
that this feeling did her credit. She was
full of good resolutions.

John Dodington on his side was happier
than he had been for a long time. He was
very glad that Dolamore had gone away ;
though he asked no questions about his
absence, as he had asked none about his
presence. As he had made heroic efforts
that nobody might see that he found fault
with any action of his wife ; so he only
showed his new pleasure in her conduct by
a double portion of gentleness. He too
was full of good resolutions.

Driven along thus peacefully, happy together
and certain of unruffled happiness
for the future, this young couple came
suddenly on an unexpected catastrophe.
Their carriage was stopped at the corner of
the familiar street, and in a minute they

knew that their roof was in a blaze. The
crowd had become so dense, that it was
impossible to make room for the Victoria.
Dodington jumped down and half lifted
Betty from her place. She was very pale ;
all her fine colour had gone in an instant ;
she clung to her husband like a child.
*' Will you let me through, please ? " said
Dodington to the nearest people, who had
turned round to look at them — " It's my
house."

Make room for the lady ! " said one.
Don't you hear, it's the gentleman's 'ouse
that's a-burnin' ? " said another, " Ah poor
dear ! " said a woman ; and other women
murmured sympathetically, while they scrutinised
the quality of Betty's gown, and
even tested it furtively with their fingers.
The crowd made way as well as they could,
and Dodington with his arm round his wife
advanced slowly towards a policeman, who
was clearing a path to meet him. Even

in the midst of her fear Betty felt proud
of her husband, who held his fine dark
head above the crowd. She was sure that
no other man would be so cool and brave,
and that all the women in the crowd were
admiring him. She felt safe, as she clung
to him ; and he did not loosen his support,
till he had half carried her into his
neighbour's hall. There Kitty ran to take
her friend from his arms. " You tell them
where to put the rest of the things," she
said to him ; and then she turned all her
attention to Betty, who presently began to
smile again and to enjoy the novelty of the
situation.

CHAPTER XLVIII.

The roof, on which Dick Hartland emerged,
was separated from the Toringtons' by a low
wall. Against the wall a short ladder was
planted ; and on the top of the ladder was
Osbert Langdon. Ossie looked round with
a face full of glee. He had never beei^ so
near to a fire ; it was so hot, that he was
obliged once in every few minutes to duck
his head below the wall. It seemed as if
he had clean forgotten that it was his
sister's roof, w^hicli was being destroyed,
though the fact probably intensified his
feeling of nearness to the catastrophe. He
certainly forgot to feel awkward in Dick's
presence. He welcomed his cousin like a

child at his first pantomime ; it was a
thrilling performance, and he had the only
front place ; it was a splendid fight between
fire and water, and he was wildly
excited by the conflict. He made room as
well as he could ; and Dick climbed up
the ladder, till he could get a grip of the
wall from behind his cousin and a good
view of the show.

The air was almost motionless, and the
smoke drifted very slowly across the two
spectators, but enough in their direction
to make them blink, and to explain the
firemen's choice of the opposite place of
attack. Through the smoke great jets of
water were flung ; and as the water fell
now here, now there, the fire burst out
now there, now here, like a live thing
leaping back at its pursuer. It was a hot
struggle, with hissing and roaring. Now
and then great bits of blazing roof fell in,
and, where they fell, the fire shot up and

the smoke was thickened with dust. It
seemed to Dick, who had little experience
in such things, that the whole house must
go. From the high place, where he stood,
he could look down into the street, and seethe
dense crowd — a great black mass in the
growing darkness, save for numberless dim
flesh-coloured spots, which were upturned
faces gazing. It was strangely exciting.
He could hear nothing but the roaring and
the hissing ; and that great silent crowd
far below, watching and waiting, enjoying
and encouraging the mighty combatants,
made his steady pulses quicken and his
clear brain dizzy. He turned his hot blackened
face again to the scene close before
him. Almost all the roof had fallen in ;
and the little rooms of the top story lay
open to the sky, except for a strong beam
here and there, which still kept its place
above them, though it was burnt black and
eaten from end to end by little fires. It

really seemed to Dick that now at last the
water was gaining ground ; it was now all
directed to a place on his right, for there
the fire was still leaping fiercely, and the
strife was furious. The smoke too was
passing away to the right, and left the
space before the cousins more clear to their
smarting eyes. Suddenly Dick was startled
by a sharp cry from Ossie. " What's that? "
cried Ossie, leaning forward over the wall,
and pointing to the far corner of the passage,
which they could now see from end to end
as open as the rooms on either side. In
the far corner of the passage there was something
blacker than the shadows. " What's
that V he repeated below his breath.

Only a gown," said Dick.

Not a woman ? "

No."

*' It moved I " cried Ossie.

No, no ; nonsense ! I'll swear it didn't."

I shall see."

VOL. III. M

Stop ! For God's sake, stop ! " cried
Dick ; but before he could seize him, Ossie
had slipped from his encircling arm, and
swung himself from the top of the wall.
Dick almost leapt after him ; he barely
stopped himself in time ; the weight of
another man would have doubled the
dangler. He could do nothing but lean
there gripping the wall, and looking.
Where Ossie dropped, the boards of the
passage seemed to give way under him,
but he flung himself forward, and with
his arms above his eyes, ran lightly on.
Under his feet small smouldering bits
of ruin were kindled anew ; above his
head a great beam almost eaten away by
little gnawing flames seemed ready to fall.
Could this be Ossie, Dick thought, Ossie,
who was made for ease and pleasure — in
deadly peril, and of his own choice ? He
could only look, and hold himself ready
to leap down in a moment, if his cousin

fell. He saw him reach the end of the
passage, and stoop to the corner ; and
then between them the big beam slowly
subsided. It came down so slowly, that
Dick could watch it and wonder if the
Poor would hold it. For a minute a great
cloud of smoke and dust hid everything ;
and as it cleared away, he saw Ossie come
flying lightly over the smouldering beam ;
and in another minute he reached down his
arms and dragged him up to safety. He
did not loose his hold, till he had drawn
him down the ladder on to the sound roof
below ; and even then he could not speak.
It was a gown after all," cried Ossie — " a
horrid old stuff gown — not worth saving ; "
and then he burst out laughing, while
the tears made strange marks down his
blackened cheeks ; and then he clung to
Dick, trembling and saying what a fool
he was. " Thank God ! Thank God ! "
was all that Dick could say.

CHAPTER XLIX.

On the morning after the fire Dick found
himself in a somewhat melancholy mood.
He had risen early and gone out before
John and Betty, whom his mother had
taken into her house, were visible. He
had called at Ossie's lodgings, and learned
that the hero of the day before was sleeping
like a child. Then, wishing to rouse
himself to a more lively state, he had
stepped briskly away to view the scene
of yesterday's conflict. From the street
but little change was apparent ; for the
fire had been finally vanquished in the
top story, and the damage to the rest of

the house had been caused solely by the
water pouring through it. Since the outer
walls appeared exactly as usual, Dick had
boldly rung the bell of the friendly neighbour;
and after the proper inquiries and
the expression of his hope that the storage
of his cousin's goods for that day at least
would not be a serious inconvenience, he
had asked permission to go up to the roof
again and see how the place looked in the
morning light.

Sitting alone on the low wall of separation
Dick slipped into a line of thoughts
more or less gloomy. It is true that he
was very glad of Ossie's unexpected valour,
as he had been very glad of Betty's release
from the attentions of Harold Dolamore.
But when he thought of these subjects of
congratulation, he could not help going onto
think about himself, and how very little
he had done to help either cousin. All his
life he had been well aware that one of

this closest duties was to look after Ossian
Betty. Now it seemed to him that
he bad been always misunderstanding them
both ; that he had never interfered to any
good purpose ; that they tumbled out of
difficulties or into heroism, while he stood
gaping and amazed. And if he had failed
fully to understand Ossie, whom he had
watched from infancy, how ridiculous must
be his normal belief in his power of reading
men ! Ossie after all these years had done
something, which fairly astonished him. He
supposed that he must conclude that men
were only a shade less difficult to understand
than women ; and if so, how could
he be sure of the effect of any of his fine
schemes for influencing men ? He supposed
that he had better give up making
plans for the present. He could not help
thinking: about himself ; and that was
tedious, and seemed another sign of weakness
; and thinking of himself he doubted

his power and use in the world, as he had
never doubted them before.

Sitting on the wall and kicking his heels
idly he doubted, if his life had not been
a mere series of mistakes. Under his
feet, where the fire had leapt and flashed
through the smoke, were a series of small
rooms like empty lidless boxes, charred
blistered and dismal, all open to a leaden
sky. The scene was not without its influence
on the young man's thoughts. At
the moment it seemed to him far more
certain that he had given great pain to
his mother, than that he had done any
good by refusing to settle his property
in the usual manner. He was much too
fond of Glaring to sell it, unless it was
clear that he could not afford to do all
for the place which the best possible landlord
could do ; and, if anything were
certain in this strange world, it was certain
that he would always be rich enough

to treat his tenants with the utmost generosity,
and yet have money enough to waste
in many experiments. He supposed that
he should make experiments, though he
felt for the first time in his life that they
would probably fail. He had certainly
failed in his first effort to woo a constituency.
He did not repent of his conduct
in that matter ; but he had not chosen the
means to success. Probably he was one of
those men, who were doomed to failure —
who could not adjust themselves to the
facts of life. And he had always thought
the world so simple, and had purposed to
play a useful, and perhaps a brilliant part
therein ! Now he thought that both things
and people were more complicated, than
he had ever imagined possible ; and that
he must have been a fool not to see it.
Sitting alone on the wall he blushed for
his former certainty and arrogance. And
if men and things were puzzling, were

not women wholly inexplicable 1 Was
not Betty after all these years a complete
enigma ? And Betty's friend ? — What had
become of the ideal wife of his young
dreams ? Where was that being of simple
thoughts and gentle affections, who was
to be a compensation to his mother for
his own waywardness, and a comfort to
himself in his periods of repose, — at home
in the housekeeper's room, interested in
the linen closet, respectful to the family
receipts ? He was beginning to think that
there were no such women in the world ;
and that, if there were such, they must
be strangely insipid. Certainly they would
be unlike the clever girl, who was so often
in his thoughts. If she were only all
which he had sometimes hoped, he thought
that she would be a wife, worth twenty
docile helpmates, studious of his comfort
and careful of the weekly books. She
would be a real companion, a woman to

love and a friend to talk to, loyal as
gay, and steadfast for all her variety. If
only she were such an one — and not rather
one whose chief interest was given to the
frivolities and flirtations of a useless life.
And here a bright innocent face seemed
to rise before him, mocking him a little,
a little deprecating his harsh judgment.
How hard it seemed that he could not
understand women ! What could she have
meant by leaping suddenly into the whirl
of London society ; by showing herself
everywhere in the centre of a fast set
and with a young chaperon, who was
being talked about ? Was it possible to
acquit her of levity and caprice 1 And
then a thought came to him, which made
him look up suddenly with a flush on
his cheek, though in a moment he had
laugh-hed at it as fantastic. What if she
had attached herself so closely to Betty,
that she misjht win her from the insidious

attentions of Dolamore ? He tlious^lit her
clever enough for anything ; but yet lie
rejected the explanation as far-fetched and
fantastic. It was much easier to explain
her sudden change as due to levity and
caprice. He could not tell; and he could
not trust. All which he could do was not
to sit all day on another man's roof, staring
into blackened boxes, and speculating without
a chance of knowledge. He swunof himself
impatiently from the wall ; and he set
forth to see if Ossie were yet awake, and
how he was after his adventure.

Mr Osbert Lano;don was awake, but still
in bed. He was rather sorry for himself,
for his feet were blistered a little and very
tender. But when he saw Dick comines
into the room, he forgot the painful results
of heroism. *' Dick," he called out from
the bed, " you wouldn't have believed it of
me, would you ? It's a most surprising
thing 1 I couldn't do it to-day."

Nobody's expected to do that sort of
thing every day," said Dick, holding his
friend's hand tight. " It was splendid."

"For that occasion only," murmured
Ossie in a contemplative manner ; " and
all for a fusty old stuff gown that went to
tinder in my hands ! But I'm awfully glad
I did it. Do you know why, Dick ? "

No," said Dick ; '' but I know why I'm
glad. I thought once that you played me
rather a dirty trick. I've got to ask your
pardon for that. I ought to have known
you better."

But I did play a dirty trick," said
Ossie — "an infernally dirty trick — in that
beastly wood by the Bosphorus. I feel
sick when I think of it ; and I've never
been able to look you in the face, since
I did it."

*' Never speak of it again," said Dick
pressing his cousin's hand. " I'll never
think of it again. After yesterday I never

can believe again that you won't always
do great things, whenever you have a
chance'

"Don't go launching me on a career of
hairbreadth escapes," said Ossie plaintively.
*' Just think what I did in that beastly
wood ! I heard you call, old chap.
That's the simple truth. And I ran away.
Just as you shouted, my horse gave a kind
of jump forward, and just as I was going
to pull him back, — all those damned things,
that I'd been hearing and saying all my
life — about each for himself, and saving
yourself while you can, and all the rest of
'em — they all came at me at once ; and
before I had time to think, I was kicking
that brute of a horse back to that infernal
place with the name I never could remember;
and I was so ashamed of myself — I
didn't suppose that I could be ashamed like
that — that I couldn't tell you the truth ;
and I lied. First, I ran any ; and then I

lied ; and now I've told you, and — that's
how it was."

Ossie lay back, looking so like a child,
who had confessed some tremendous breach
of nursery law, that Dick began to smile.
We've had enough of that," he said ;
we've both said we're sorry ; and it's done
with for ever. Has Miss Bond heard of
the great performance?"

Yes," said Ossie relapsing into smiles ;
I've had a little note."

Are you engaged, or not ? " asked Dick,
slipping naturally back into his position as
Mentor. Ossie pondered a little. " I suppose
I am," he said ; " she's an awfully
good girl. I'm fond of Susan. She's very
good for me. She's very clever. Isn't
she ? "

"Yes. She's clever enough."
*she says that you never liked her."
Does she \ " Dick felt as if he ought
to contradict the lady's statement, but his

liking for strict truth stood in the way.
'*I dont dislike her," he said. "If she
made you a good wife, I should learn to
like her fast enough."

I need somebody to look after me, don't
I ? " asked Ossie gravely.

Oh, if that's all, I'll look after you."

You conceited old chap," said Ossie
smiling again ; " you never did it half so
well as she does. Do you know that since
you gave me up "

I never gave you up," said Dick.

''Do you know," began Ossie again by
no means discomposed, '' that for a whole
year I've not touched a card nor made a
bet ? That's all her doing."

Is it 1 Then I do like her. x\nd Ossie,
I am most awfully glad. Did you promise
her?"

No. She won't let me make promises.
She's an awfully good sort; and she's capital
fun ; and she's very fond of me." He

looked so absurdly pleased with himself,
that Dick burst out laughing.

You shouldn't go laughing at one's
good resolutions," said Ossie with dignity.

"Then," said Dick, '' I shall wish Miss
Susan joy the next time I see her. I don't
know if I ought to congratulate her."

yes," said Ossie sweetly smiling.

Between Mr Langdon's lodgings and Mrs
Hartland's house Dick had time in spite of
his quick walking to relapse into a melancholy
mood. He was very glad that there
was no longer any shadow between Ossian
himself; but he foresaw plainly enough
that another person with another influence
was coming closer to his wayward cousin ;
he thought that the days of the old boyish
friendship could return no more. Of
course it was well that it should be so.
Superannuated boyhood is a pitiful thing,
at which the young may laugh. It was
natural that Ossie should find his nearest

friend in the woman, who would marry
him. Dick thought — though, as he walked,
he jerked his head impatiently at the notion
of prophesying about women — that Susan
Bond with her practical cleverness and
patient love would take good care of her
husband. " Even Ossie sees that she does
more for him, than I could," Dick said to
himself — '' though that isn't saying much."
He was gloomy, when he let himself into
his mother's house, and went slowly upstairs.
The door of his mother's sitting-room
was open, and he looked in. Mrs
Hartland was sitting on her little sofa near
the window, and by her side was Miss
Holcroft. To see them there together almost
took away Dick's breath. So far as he
knew, they had not met before. When he
first found out that the Holcrofts were in
London, he had asked his mother to call on
them, as people who had been kind to him
abroad. Mrs Hartland had called at their

VOL. III. N

hotel, but had not found them at home ;
and Miss Holcroft had made her visit in
return, but also without effect. Then Mrs
Hartland had asked the travellers to dinner ;
but by this time the young lady had made
her sudden plunge into gay society, and
was engaged every evening. And Dick had
been rather glad that his mother and Miss
Kitty did not meet ; for he was himself
deeply offended by the young lady's new
departure in frivolity; and he had made
up his mind that, if there were anything
certain about women, it was certain that
these two would not understand each other.
And now he saw them sitting close together
in the most intimate corner of his mother's
own room. He stood still in the doorway,
and forgot to speak, wondering what they
thought of each other. He could not see
his mother's face ; but her hands lay idle in
her lap, and she seemed to be listening with
interest. He could not hear what the girl's

low voice was saying ; but she was speaking,
as if to a friend. Presently Kitty's
eyes, which were full of earnestness, met
his ; and their expression changed, as they
looked at him, to a demure delight in his
surprise. The flush on her cheek was reflected
more faintly on the face of the older
woman, as she turned to see what had made
her companion suddenly silent. '' And now
I must really go," said Kitty. ^' If I keep
my maid waiting, she avenges herself by
not doing my hair becomingly."

And you will come again tomorrow to
see Betty ? " asked Sophie Hartland smiling.

'^ Yes," said Kitty — " and to see you, if I
may."

Then Mrs Hartland kissed her; and
Dick felt a cold thrill run down his back.
Neither of these ladies seemed in a hurry
to notice him. He made a movement, as
if he would accompany the visitor to the
front door.

Please don't," said Miss Holcroft, and
she passed him quickly, and ran lightly
down the stairs.

Why did you never tell me, how nice
she was ? " asked Sophie Hartland, when
they had heard the street-door shut.

'' Do you like her, mother ? I never
could make out — I couldn't understand —
I'm not sure now." He stopped, finding it
hard to explain himself.

You ought to have felt, how nice she
was," said his mother gravely. Dick felt as
if he were being scolded in a manner but
little expected. " Did she say anything
about me ? " he asked rather eagerly.

"No," answered Sophie Hartland with
the dawn of a smile on her serious mouth:
we have been having a good long; talk
about Betty."

As Dick stood looking at his mother, he
beo^an to feel as if he had a thousand things
to say to her. Then it suddenly seemed

impossible to say anything. He kissed her,
and went out. He went down the stairs
and into the street, as if he expected to
find Miss Holcroft lingering on the doorstep.
It was a quiet little street, and almost
empty ; and Dick stood for a minute
listless on the pavement without attracting
attention. He stood quite still, though his
feelings where somewhat tumultuous. '' I
ought to have felt it," he said to himself;
I ought to have felt, how nice she was."

CHAPTER L.

When Dick first woke on the next coming,
he could not tell why he was so glad.
The sky was dull ; and only the day before
he had felt himself oppressed by the dulness
and languor of the London air ; but
now he did not give a thought even to the
prospect of a poor harvest. To-morrow
will be fine, he thought; anything might
happen tomorrow ; and meanwhile to-day
was exciting. Only yesterday it had
seemed natural that boyhood had gone
for ever ; to-day he had forgotten that he
had ever had such a thought ; he felt an
inclination to hustle somebody. Yesterday
in view of the uncertainty of things in

general, lie had resolved to abide by one
decision ; and this one decision was that
he would make no plans whatever, until he
had more reason to trust his insight. Now
his mind was busy with new schemes,
recalling many talks with Mr Holcroft,
leaping to great conclusions, and busily
criticising the means. He proposed to do
something, however little, to strengthen the
friendship between England and America.
In the old country a few bad harvests and
a dense and rapidly increasing population
would make a steady stream of emigration
necessary ; while for the new there was no
more vital interest than that she should
preserve her English character.

I am undoubtedly a prejudiced person,"
Mr Holcroft had said ; " and I do not deny
that I have no wish to belong to a Chinese
America ; nor to a German America ; nor
to an Irish America. I take it that nobody
will dispute the value of a regular and

steady supply of the good old-fashioned,
just and dominant, Anglo-saxon article."
Remembering such speeches, Dick was
hardly out of his bath, when he had determined
to lose no more time before his
visit to the corn-lands of the Ked River,
and the new cattle-ground of Montana ;
and he had not got into his coat, before
he had developed the plan of a great College,
where men of all classes might acquire
quickly and cheaply, before they left England,
the knowledge most valuable to the
agricultural colonist. Capitalists could not
fail to be impressed by this excellent idea.
He would fly to the West for a short visit ;
see for himself what men needed who emigrated
to these vast and fertile regions ;
and come home to make good use of the
money, which would flow into his admirable
College. By every means the ties
between the two kindred countries must
be strengthened for their mutual benefit.

If America were to send her wheat, England
must send in return her surplus bone
and sinew. Englishmen must learn to feel
at home in America, as Americans in England.
It was wonderful how Dick's heart
had warmed towards the Western world.

Everybody seemed happy on that dismal
morning. John Dodington was gayer than
he had been since the days of his honeymoon.
It seemed as if the damage to his
London abode, and the complaints of his
tenants in the country, had been all that
was needed to raise his spirits. He spoke
of Betty, who had not yet quite recovered
from the shock of the fire, with unprecedented
freedom. He smiled, as he spoke
of her good intentions — of her demand to
be taken into the country, and to be
allowed to practise economy throughout
the autumn and winter. He seemed no
longer afraid that Betty's relations might
speak to him of her in disparaging terms ;

that he himself might be betrayed into
criticising her. He was beginning to feel
that he could love her none the less, though
he admitted to himself that she was not
absolutely perfect ; and to feel too that it
was pleasant not to have to blind himself
for ever, as he had tried at first to blind
himself, even to such trifling facts, as that
her appetite was more robust than suited
his fastidious theories of young - ladyhood
delicately nurtured.

It seemed natural to Dick that a pleasant
surprise should come to him on that morning.
He had not left the breakfast-room,
when a pleasant surprise came. There was
a sharp ring at the front-door bell, a voice
in the passage, and Fabian Deane rushed
in. Fabian liked to surprise people. He
had crossed from Paris in the night, and
after a bath and breakfast he appeared with
the suddenness of Mephistopheles before his
former pupil. Here was the very thing.

which Dick wanted. Dick scarcely allowed
him to shake hands with Mrs Hartland,
before he carried him off to his own
peculiar den. There finding that Mr
Deane was charged with a fiery scorn of
Europe and everything European, he began
to open to him his fine outlook Westward.
Fabian had been fanning in his own bosom
the smouldering enthusiasm for Levantine
colonisation, and had come to Dick, that
he might be told that the plan of making
a model farm in Palestine was by this time
practicable. But it did not take long to
convert Fabian Deane from East to West ;
he flew round the compass ; his eyes fastened
on his pupil began to burn with
their wonted fires, and he broke into occasional
exclamations of interest and admiration.
Soon he had left Dick far behind.
He was sure that the College for emigrants
might be left to take care of itself. " Why
should we not strip ourselves of everything

'? " lie asked, and was hurt, when
Dick laughed at the question. He was
eager at the moment to shake off the dust
of Europe for ever, and to follow Dick
with some hundreds, or thousands, or tens
of thousands of fellow-labourers, to found,
a new home, if not to inaugurate the
golden age, on the fertile plains of Minnesota.
It seemed to him unworthy of his
friend to wish to remain an Englishman,
and to live in England, and even on that
little spot of little England, Which was
dear to him as Glaring Park. Fabian
glaring on the hearth rug felt himself of
a wider spirit — a creature to be cabined
in no pelting farm; while Fabian's unexpected
presence and ebullient enthusiasm
had its usual effect on Dick, and made him
look more coolly and critically on his own
sudden plans. *' No, no," he said ; " I am
emphatically English. I believe in this
little England ; and I love her, as o-ood

Americans should love her. She's a grand
little place, and not played out yet."

'' Played out ! " cried Fabian. '' Whoever
thought she was ? It's treason even
to think of it. England ! My word !
*This other Eden' — what is it? — ' demi-paradise
; — this happy breed of men, this
little world ; this precious stone set in the
silver sea, — this land of such dear souls,
this dear dear land, dear for her reputation
through the world, — England, bound in
with the triumphant sea ' "

"Yes, yes," said Dick; "you needn't
give up being a Briton yet. But we'll
think about this Western idea. I must
have a day or two to think; I feel in a
whirl — as if I were being carried somewhere
in an express train. Things have
crowded on me lately in the strangest
manner. I must have a little time — that
is, after to-day. To-day I have one other
thing to do, and then "

What are you going to do to-day ? "

'' A mere trifle ! '^ said Dick with his face
beaming. " But it must be done. I'll go
and do it now."

'* I'll go with you," said Fabian ; but
Dick shook his head. " No," he said ;
make yourself at home here ; I'll come
back ; good - bye." He ran down - stairs,
leaving Fabian staring and frowning on
the hearth rug. Dick walked through the
street with a triumphant feeling. He was
as one Who has awaked out of sleep, or
been freed from an evil spell. He seemed
to see the world with fresh delight, and
the people thereon with eyes which again
saw clearly. How could he have doubted
her? Like Romeo's, his bosom's lord sat
lightly on his throne. He was excited, as if
he were riding at a big place ; he walked
like a bridegroom; he felt an exaltation,
which must be the forerunner of victory.

When Dick reached the hotel, he was

told that Mr Hoi croft was out, and that
Miss Holcroft was engaged. He could not
bear to turn away. He sent his card to
the lady, with a request that she would
see him for a minute. After a short time
he was ushered into the Holcrofts' 
; it was empty. His excitement
was now less pleasant. As he walked up
and down, scraps of sentences passed
through his head ; but he would not
settle on any words. He had made up
his mind to trust to the inspiration of
the moment ; when he saw her, he would
know what to say. At last, as he turned in
his walking, he noticed a strange thing.
There was a line of light under the fold-indoors
; and he noticed that this line of
light was broken, now in one place, now
in another. Then he knew that she was
hesitating on the threshold. He smiled
with pleasure in her quick perception ; he
thought that she must have felt his purpose

in the air. He looked at the door,
waiting till she should come in with the
flush on her cheek, and an unusual shyness
in her grey eyes. As he looked, the door
opened slowly, and she came in with downcast
eyes, pale and troubled. At the sight
of her, his valour turned to fear ; but he
steadied himself and spoke bravely. " You
must know why I have come," he said, ashe
took her cold hand in his. She said
nothing ; she would not look at him ; but
he felt the little hand lifeless in his, and he
dropped it. As it fell by her side, he felt as
if hope went with it, but he must needs
have a plain answer. " I came to ask you
to be my wife," he said.

Oh, I am so sorry — '' she said. She
seemed to find it hard to speak, and still
she would not raise her eyes to his. He
felt the need of all his strength. '* It can't
be then '? " he said simply. There was a
pause before she answered, and when the

answer came she seemed to speak with the
same difficulty.

I am so sorry," she said again almost
in a whisper. She looked so unhappy,
that Dick forgot to pity himself.

"I can't bear to hurt you," he said.
'* You must forgive me. I suppose that I
ought to have known." He saw her lips
move, but still she would not raise her
eyes.

I hope I did not make you think "

she began in a low voice ; but she could
say no more, and her hand seemed to stop
short in a gesture of entreaty. Dick would
have liked to say that she had given him
no cause for hope, but certain of her passing
looks and words came back to him, and
checked him.

I ought to have known," he said presently.


She knew in an instant that he had
not given her the assurance, for which she

VOL. HI.

asked. For a second her eyes were lifted,
but they fell again, as she said more coldly
" I am sorry," and then she could say no
more.

Good-bye 1 " said Dick with his hand on
the door-handle. As he opened the door,
she asked quickly, almost eagerly — "May
not we be friends still ? "

Yes," he answered. For a minute he
stood there, looking at her ; but her eyes
were not lifted from the carpet. A passionate
appeal seemed to be rising to his lips,
but it was not uttered. He took his last
look at her pale downcast face ; he would
have liked to touch her hand again, but
he would not. He shut the door gently
behind him, and went out.

In less than a week the Holcrofts had
started for America.

CHAPTER LI.

Months had gone since the Holcrofts' departure
for America, and the winter was
almost at an end, when Mr Kirby found
himself again at Glaring. His excellent
wife had noticed that her lord was a little
hot-headed, and had suggested change of
air. She had been pooh-poohed for her
advice, and her advice had been followed.
She declared that she was so busy with the
household and children, that she could not
go away ; she knew that it would be better
for him to go to Glaring without her. So
with all the freedom of a bachelor, and
already the better for his change, Mr Kirby
after an excellent dinner sat in his favourite

corner by the fire, and sipped his claret ;
he had not tasted wine so well for months.
There was nobody else in the room except
his old friend Hervie Langdon, who still
sat at the table with his arms placed
squarely thereon, and contemplated the
prominent politician at ease in the big
arm-chair. Their young host had gone
away for a night on business ; and even
this fact was an additional luxury to Mr
Kirby, for Dick remained as a text for his
discourse, and he was inclined to talk
about Dick. The curtains were drawn ;
the room was full of mellow light : in
the drawing-room there awaited him
two agreeable ladies — Mrs Hartland, whom
he still regarded as a charming little
woman, and Mrs Dodington, who was
looking lovely, though like himself she
had come for change of air. Altogether
Mr Kirby was enjoying the passing hour.
He could find fault with Dick without

any great disturbance of his own full-fed
serenity.

"Confound me," said Mr Kirby, "if I
can make out what the boy's waiting for.
There are good things ready to drop into
his mouth, and I'm damned if he'll open
it." After this the politician reopened his
own mouth to some purpose, and filled it
with Margaux.

What o-ood things '? " asked Hervie
Langdon.

Seats in Parliament."

Strange things to drop into your
mouth," said Mr Langdon softly and with
perhaps improper flippancy. "Dick can
wait," he added. " He's absurdly young."

It's full time he got over his crotchets.
We know, my dear Hervie, that crotchets
are all right for boys. But if they stay in
the system, there's the deuce to pay. It's
full time Dick dropped his revolutionary
nonsense."

"Dick isn't revolutionary," said Hervie
Langdon. " He's almost too prudent to be
interesting. He's what our friend Hole
calls — 'level-headed'"

'^ I don't know what you call prudent,"
said Mr Kirby. "I never saw him when
he hadn't some preposterous scheme — some

mare's nest — some — some " Being at

a loss for a stronger expression he filled
his mouth with claret and rolled it on his
tongue.

'' He's sanguine," said Hervie Langdon
smiling under his beard. '^ It's a delightful
gift. Dick always thought he could do
• anything, and see through everybody. But
he's changed somehow. I wonder if you'll
notice it. He expects less. He's graver
and older. He's like a man who has had
a steadier." As Mr Kirby only grunted
and settled himself more comfortably in his
chair, his friend, who seemed more willing
to talk than usual, asked him a question —

*dont you think he'll be a more useful
member after this American trip *? ''

"I never knew anybody get any good
from going to America' Mr Kirby said ;
"it frightens 'em into Tories."

"And do you think there's any fear of
that with Dick

"I wish to heaven there was."

^'Whyr'

"To think," said Mr Kirby solemnly,
of a fellow, with a property like this, playing
with revolution. It's flying in the face
of — of everything ; it's disgusting ; it's —
it's the dam'dest stuff and nonsense — that's
what it is."

"You are all wrong about Dick," said
Hervie Langdon looking pleasantly across
the table at his friend, who flushed redder
at this unexpected statement ; " you are
quite wrong in calling him revolutionary.
He has a most wholesome distrust of fundamental
principles. Where a thing is clearly

wrong, he itches to put it right ; it's a good
workman's spirit ; I feel sure that Dick
will make a good workman."

And how about land ? " asked Mr
Kirby. "Do you mean to tell me that
he hasn't a mass of preposterous ideas
about land ? "

Yes," said Hervie Langdon, '^ I do.
He has read about all theories, but he has
adopted none of them. I've been talking
to him lately about land reform ; and he's
tame — too tame I think. I've a sneaking
fancy for the Nationalisation of land,
myself."

You ain't a politician," said Mr Kirby
with a chuckle.

No, thank heaven ! " said Mr Langdon.
But I suppose that Dick must be one ;
and he won't have my Nationalisation at
any price. He says the country would be
ruined by the compensation, which would
have to be paid. He's prudent enough fora

Prime Minister. He believes in no land
reform, except in not allowing land to be
settled on non-existent babies, and giving
tenants something for existing improvements
when their time's np.'^

^' Those are all right," said Mr Kirby
judicially. He had finished his claret, and
had lighted a big cigar. With his feet
stretched out towards the fire, and his whole
body soothed by the sweet influence of the
best tobacco, the politician was ready to
allow himself to be wooed into a more hopeful
mood. A young man, who had such
excellent claret, could not go far in dangerous
paths. But the politician's placidity
was soon ruffled again.

*what do you think of Nicholas Em-mens
? " asked Hervie Langdon.

A damned Communistical cobbler," said
Mr Kirby without hesitation.

"I suppose you know that he's gone?"
asked the other.

Gone '{ " cried Mr Kirby hotly.

He has gone to make shoes in Kansas
City. He wants to start his children in a
larger room."

And that cottage and garden ? "

Don't you know that Dick has bought
'em back 'i "

No ! The rascal made him pay for
them, ril be bound ; that's what he took
'em for ; our young friend burnt his clever
fingers there, ha, ha ; " and Mr Kirby
chuckled.

"Wrons:," said Hervie Lano^don smiling.
He wanted to give them back, as they had
been given to him. I persuaded him to let
Dick buy them."

^^You!"

Yes, I — for his wife's sake. I've seen a
great many good women. Most women are
good. But I never saw so good a woman
as Mrs Emmens." Mr Kirby snorted disrespectfully
; but Hervie Langdon only

smiled, as he continued. "Just listen to
this. It's the best thing ever said. Dick
and I went down to say good-bye to the
Emmens family. Everything was ready;
everything was in beautiful order ; and Mrs
Emmens was talking to her baby, as if
Kansas City was only half a mile away.
What do you think that woman said to
Dick ? It was beautiful. She wished him
a good wife."

Nothing very remarkable in that," said
Mr Kirby puffing at his big cigar.

*' Wait a bit. What do you think she
said to him after that ? You'd never guess.
'And I do hope, sir,' she said, 'that you
and she may be as happy, as we are.' Isn't
it beautiful ? Fancy that speech from a
woman, who has to work like a nicrirer,
with a pack of children and a husband of
a doubtful temper, and a journey before
her of four thousand miles or so and of
unknown discomforts — fancy that speech

from such a woman to a young landowner,
with both pockets full of money, and an
influential cousin with both pockets full of
boroughs ! I call it beautiful."

My dear Hervie, I had no notion you
were so eloquent." Mr Langdon looked at
his friend for a minute, and then unexpectedly
burst out laughing.

What on earth are you laughing at ? "
asked the politician, as he had often asked
before. " Well, I hope you are right about
Dick'' he said presently. "You know,
Hervie, how anxious I am that the dear
boy should succeed."

"He'll succeed," said Hervie Langdon.
He'll come back from America, and
tell you how much wheat they grow to an
acre in Dakota, and how much per cent
they make out of beef in Wyoming ; where
cobblers had better go to, and where tailors
and all that sort of thing. And then
with all sorts of useful knowledge in his

head, you can bring him in for some virtuous
borough as a great authority on
American competition, and on the emigration
of superfluous artisans and ambitious
labourers."

Mr Kirby was smoking with a thoughtful
air. " Tell me, Hervie," he said presently
with more mildness. "About this
going to America 1 There's nothing else,
is there 1 He's not going after that American
girl ? "

No," said Mr Langdon ; '' he's going
straight away Avert. He won't stay a single
day on the Eastern coast."

"There never was anything in that, ell"
asked the politician with curiosity.

Not much, I suppose," said Mr Langdon.

Some fool of a fellow told me that she
had refused him. That was likely, wasn't
it *? I told him he talked the dam'dest
stuff" and nonsense. Refuse Dick ! "

'' It doesn't seem likely," said Hervie ;

'' but women are strange creatures — strange
creatures'

"They don't refuse Dick' said Mr
Kirby, emphatically.

I don't profess to understand women,"
said Mr Langdon. " Dick may fail with
them for all I know ; but I am sure that
he will succeed with the world at large.
He puts his foot where he means to put it ;
and even those who have to make way,
can't help liking him. With clear eyes, a
strong will, and a smile like Dick's, anybody
might rule the world."

*' If you know so well how it's done,"
said Mr Kirby intending pleasantry, " why
haven't you done it yourself 1 "

'' I ? " said Hervie Langdon smiling in
his beard. *' I don't care enough about
putting my foot anywhere ; and instead of
smiling I've a lausrh, which makes half the
world jump, and the other half think that
they are being laughed at. Besides I'm

one of those who look on. But Dick will
succeed. He'll do something some day.
Shall we join the ladies 1 ''

*' I'm agreeable' said Mr Kirby.

That you always are," said Mr Lang-don.


CHAPTER Il

Mr Kirby did not notice any change in
his host and cousin ; and yet Hervie Lang-don
was right when he said that he was
changed. Dick's view of life during that
autumn and winter had been more sober ;
he hoped that it was more true. He was
inclined to expect less; to narrow his plans;
to concentrate his attention on the next
step before him. So he dismissed for the
present his idea of a College for emigrants,
and contented himself with preparations
for his trip to America. Even this plan
was of necessity contracted, for of course
his visit to the New World must now be
of a strictly business character. He would

visit Iowa and Wyoming, Dakota, Minnesota,
and Manitoba. This trip would be
bis next step ; and he meant to get from ita
great deal of useful information, which
would enable him to help all sorts of
people in the future, to give trust worthy-information
to politicians, and good advice
to emigrants. The question of Parliament
he would postpone with that of the
College, and indeed with all other questions,
until he came back from America.
Nobody knew of Dick's failure, but his
mother only ; and she kept it a profound
secret. Some rumours there were, but they
died at once, before they had persuaded
anybody. Sophie Hartland's pride, which
was now almost wholly pride in her boy,
made her shrink from the mere thou Hit
of this thing being known ; but yet it is
likely enough that some cold look or quick
criticism of hers, when Miss Holcroft's
name was mentioned, had set the limit

VOL. III. P

rumours flying. However nobody believed
that the girl had refused so good an offer.
It was not long before Mrs Hartland for
her part believed that from the first moment
of their acquaintance she had known that
Kitty Holcroft was a mere flirt. She soon
succeeded in persuading herself that Dick
was unhurt ; that, if he had not forgotten
the girl, he thought very little about her.
She found him cheerful and kind, and perhaps
a little more careful of those little
attentions, which are dear to women when
they love the giver. She wondered that
any girl could refuse him ; she was sure
that no nice girl could.

So if Dick during those months of
autumn and winter had been a little
graver and more thoughtful, he had been
kindly to all and had shown no lack of
cheerfulness. And the days had passed
quietly and not too slowly. There was
to be no great change in his life ; and he

had time to think. Life lay before him,
and he meant to live it according to the
best lights, which he could find. If a
certain grace and beauty had gone out
of it for ever, it never struck him that
it was not worth while to live it withall
the energy that was in him. He regarded
his life more gravely ; he had had
what Hervie Langdon called " a steadier."
Day after day he had worked with admirable
regularity, finding much healthy
sustenance in Colonial reports, and tables of
statistics. He had always found pleasure
in making well-arranged tables of figures,
and in keeping note-books with neat indices
; but he had never before found
these things so essential to his comfort.
He had been very busy during all these
weeks ; and he had kept steadily before
him the idea of carrying to America as
much knowledge bearing on his future observations
there, as he could possibly digest.

He had been more than ever impatient of
idleness, which was apt to breed useless
thoughts. When he was not reading, or
discussing the subjects of his reading with
Fabian Deane, he had ridden or walked,
hunted or shot, with almost dogged persistence.
For the rest even Fabian had
seen but little change in him, though he
had sometimes missed his outbursts of
high spirits, or had thought that a gallop
did not excite him as it used to do. But
he had put down these slight changes to
the inevitable progress of years, and perhaps
a little to the absence of Ossie, who was in
London looking with impressive solemnity
for something to do. Mr Osbert Lanordon
proposed to be "something in the city;"
and about noon he might often be seen
driving eastward, with a serious face and
a hothouse flower in his button - hole,
looking out over the doors of his hansom
for a regular occupation. He was to be

married in the spring ; and he had taken
to writing letters on business and matrimony
to his father, who laughed over them
till he had to wipe his eyes.

On the day after Mr Kirby's appearance
at Glaring, Dick came back from London,
whither he had gone at Ossie's request to
advise him about his affairs. Perhaps it
was this break in the wholesome routine
of his life, which made Dick restless on
the next morning. Perhaps some rather
clumsy pleasantries of the eminent guest,
whom he found on his return home, stirred
up again uncomfortable thoughts. He had
seen Susan Bond in town, and had talked
of her approaching wedding. He had
never liked her so well. The responsibility,
which she was about to accept so
gladly, seemed to have had an excellent
effect on her. She had made no effort to
impress Ossie's cousin with her cleverness
and worldly wisdom. She had talked

cheerfully and simply of the future, a
great deal about Ossie, and very little
about herself. Only when they parted,
she had said to Dick with something of
her old manner, 'you are sure you ain't
jealous of me ? " Then Dick had laughed ;
and she had said — " You have yet to see
hoar good I can be, when I have found
somebody, whom I may care about as much
as I like ; " and when Dick only laughed
again, she had added, — '' And I will make
you like me some day ; I mean to be your
favourite cousin' So Dick had come back
to Glaring with his thoughts busy with
this young couple, who were going to
make the great experiment so soon ; and,
Whether it was these thoughts, or the sly
hints of Mr Kirby which made him restless,
restless he undoubtedly was.

The next morning was chilly and depressing,
and Dick found that he could
not fix his attention on his reports, his

tables, and his note - books. Disturbing
fancies came between his young eyes and
the instructive page. He got up, and
stared out of window at a grey and foggy
world ; and after gazing into this for sometime
he made up his mind to cure himself,
as he rarely failed to cure himself of idle
fancies, by a determined tramp. He turned
up the collar of his shooting coat, took
his stout ash-stick, and plunged into a
wintry air. Wintry it was, but there were
signs enough that winter would not linger
long. Though the hedges and trees were
still bare, fields were just newly green
with points of wheat, and a few young
lambs were in the hurdles with the ewes.
A wet grey blanket was over the land,
and the white frost of the night before
was fast melting. The brown hedges were
laden and dripping with water-drops ; and
Dick's hair was soaked with mist before
he had walked a mile. Nevertheless his

blood grew warm, as he walked steadily
forward, and his head was clearer. He
liked to feel the half-frozen ground crumble
under his strong boots ; and the solitude
suited his mood. There were few
people on the road. Now he met a waggon
of old hay, now an empty waggon ;
two or three times he saw a labourer come
plodding out of the mist. For the rest he
seemed to have this melting world to himself,
and as he stepped out stoutly therein,
he seemed to be walking back to sure content.
He had walked many miles, when
he came back into the village of Glaring.
As he was taking a short cut through the
churchyard, he heard the sound of the
organ, and he went into the porch to listen.
There was a voice in the choir, of which
Mrs Hartland and the Vicar were equally
proud, for it had been born and taught in
the village ; it was this voice, which Dick

heard as he stood still in the church-porch.
His long solitary walk had made him well
content to rest for a minute by the way ;
and the music seemed to speak peace to
him with an influence, which he had not
often felt. He was apt to be impatient of
music, and a little contemptuous of people,
who went to it for easy emotions. Now
however he was a little tired ; he was very
quiet ; he yielded himself without debate
to the power of sound. After a time there
was a silence, and then the voice began
again. It seemed to fill the church without
an efibrt, and to come forth softly into the
porch, where the mist dripped in silvery
water from the roof. " rest in the Lord,"
the voice sang ; '^ wait patiently for Him ;
and He will give you your heart's desire."
It was as if an angel had troubled the
deep waters, which lie below the countless
thoughts and feelings of a busy life. Life

seemed larger to Dick, as he turned away ;
though he must do bravely without her,
whom his heart desired. There were good
things to do in the world ; and he walked
home with a stout heart.

CHAPTER LIII.

Now Betty Dodington had shrunk with a
natural antipathy from that misty soaking
day ; she had not been out of the house,
and she was inclined to be a little cross
with Dick, when he appeared with a fine
colour in his cheeks and demanded five-o'clock
tea. Moreover she had been left
alone, and that was a grievance. Her
father was playing billiards with Mr Kirby;
and Sophie Hartland was instructing some
little maidens from the village. So Betty had
been thinking pathetically of her devoted
Jack, and had decided that she would never
leave him again for a single day ; and
when Dick came in with his provoking out-of-doors

air, Betty was inclined to scold
him a little. AVhen she had given him his
tea, and had rebuked him for not amusing
his guests, she happily remembered another
ground of complaint. " Who do you think
I've heard from 1 " she asked.

"From Tory."

Of course," she said contemptuously.
He writes every day. Who else ? " As
Dick refused to show a proper interest, she
could not help telling him. " I've had a
letter from Kitty," she said. '' She writes
the most amusing letters ; but I don't think
she's happy. I do wish she'd stayed hereto
amuse me — Dick, what an old stupid
you are ! " She felt that Dick was looking
at her now, though, as there was little light
in the room but firelight, she could see his
face but dimly. There was a minute's
pause ; and then Dick asked — " What
makes you think she isn't happy '? "

"Oh I don't know," she said with lazy

indifference ; '' but you were a great stupid,
you knows

Is she quite well ? " he asked.

Of course she's quite well ; but I wish
she was here. And to think that it's all
your fault. You might just as well have
asked her to stay '? — Why didn't you ask
her to stay ? " She felt that this question
was a little bold ; she had never ventured
on this subject before ; but now she had
an unconquerable desire to tease Dick.
Since he said nothing, she went on more
quickly. " Kitty never would have gone,
if it hadn't been for that horrid Nellie Parkinson
— I'll never call her ' Nellie ' again —
wasn't it horrid of her to say that ? But I
dare say you believe it ; men are so vain. "

*' If you will tell me," said Dick quietly,
what she did say, I'll tell you if I think
it horrid."

And now Mrs Dodington felt a mild excitement,
a pleasant surprise. *' Dick," she

said, " don't you really know 1 Everybody
knows. Dick, I sometimes think that you
don't know anything."

Not much perhaps. What did this Mrs
Parkinson say ? "

*she went about everywhere saying that
Kitty — she was awfully jealous of Kitty —
she told everybody that Kitty had followed
you about abroad, and that she'd come to
England on purpose to marry you." She
could not clearly see Dick's face, on which
the firelight played fitfully, but he got up
Quickly, as she finished speaking, and turned
from her to lean his elbow on the mantelpiece.
Presently he broke the silence by
asking shortly — " Did Miss Holcroft know
what that woman was saying ? "

Not till a very little while before she
sailed. That horrid Nellie never rested, till
she did know. And of course it was the
worst thing possible to say about Kitty ; for
she was always thinking that Englishmen

gave themselves airs — and so you do — and
that you throw the handkerchief, and all
that. And Kitty is awfully proud ; and she
would hate to run after anybody ; and I'm
certain from what she said one day when we
were talking, that you did think that the
Holcrofts did come on to some ridiculous
steamer somewhere in the East, because
you were on it ; and that was too ridiculous,
and just like the vanity of men. As
if nice girls ever ran after men — except
Susan and Ossie — but of course Ossie's
different." Betty was somewhat exhausted
by this speech; and she lay back in her
chair, with a comfortable sense of having
said a good deal to the point, and of having
done her duty by scolding somebody. She
now smiled on Dick with the best humour,
knowing full well that he would not resent
her fault-finding. She would have been
surprised, if she could have read the
thoughts of the man standing so near to

her with his face in shadow. He stood
there saying nothing ; and presently in
that pleasant twilight her lids began to
droop, and she looked into the fire with
drowsy eyes. But in her rambling words
Dick had found something, which filled him
with quick thoughts, and with a strong new
hope. It seemed to explain the inexplicable.
And yet he would not be in a hurry. He
knew that he must be cautious, and look
well to the grounds of this new hope. It
might be that she cared for him after all ; and
if she cared for him — he could not measure
the beauty which would come back into his
life. But yet — he looked at Betty, and saw
that she had fallen asleep with her lips, like
a baby's, parted. He went softly out and
to his own room ; and there he set himself
to think, and would not dream.

On the same night Dick was in his
mother's room. He could not sleep before
he had told her what he meant to do. At

first she was frightened ; and her fear for
him made her speak more quickly and less
kindly to her boy, than she had spoken to
him for a long time past.

Dick listened patiently, till she said
some hard thing about Kitty, and even
then he stopped her gently enough. '• Ah
mother," he said, " I love her."

Then Sophie Hartland was quiet for a
time, drying her eyes ; and at last she said
with a faint smile after tears — '' Of course
you will do what you have made up your
mind to do. I ought to have learnt that
by this time."

And this time at least I am rio^ht,"
said Dick with a strong smile responsive
to her doubtful one ; " I have felt all along
that she cared for me more than for other
people ; I know I can make her love me ;
I think I can make her happy ; I will
try with all my heart to make her happy.
At the worst, I am strong enough to stand

VOL. III. Q

it; and it need not add much to my
American trip. I can stand it, whatever
happens — and you must stand it too,
mother."

*you mustn't think of me," she said;
*'I want you to think of yourself; I am
so afraid for you ; I did hope that it was
all over. Dick, can't you make up your
mind not to go — not to run the risk of
hurting yourself again ? " She came and
put her arms round his neck, and looked
into his face.

I must go," he said gravely ; " I must
go. Suppose that she should be unhappy
now because of me ! " He laughed, as he
suggested this possibility, and Sophie Hart-land
could not help smiling in answer.
We must not risk that," he said ; " must
we 1 Better that I should suffer a dozen
times, than run the risk of leaving her
sorry — even a little sorry."

She was only half reconciled ; but he

seemed to her very chivalrous; she could
not help being proud of his chivalry. He
made her sit down again in her chintz
arm-chair by the fire, and brought the
footstool for her little slippered feet. '' You
see, you mustn't think seriously of the
thing," he said; "you must think that
my American journey is the same ; and
that on my way I am going to see the
Holcrofts, as I promised I would. That's
all. I shall come back with lots of highly
valuable information, and with something
better — the best thing in the world, I
think."

If I could only be sure," she began,
and stopped. She was afraid ; and yet
it was easy to believe that this girl could
not help caring for her boy, that she must
have had some other reason for refusing
him.

"I am sure," said Dick bravely; "I felt
it all along — just as I felt how good she

was. My mistake was that I would bother
myself by thinking ; I ought to have
known without thinking. I felt all along
that she was the best girl in the world —
and that I might win her, if I tried."

His mother's prudent counsels were at
an end. As he stooped to kiss her, she
put her arms round his neck again, and
held him a minute, as if she could not
bear to let him go. " I hope that you
are right," she said; "Dick, my darling,
I do hope that you are right." And he
was riojht.

THE End.

Printed BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD And SONS.

3 0112 055290099

ill
