m il ) i n

Cowed op

A OounTtfy Hoi/si

trois

OF THL

UNIVERSITY

OF ILLINOIS

82,3

St etc

V,. I

I DAY'S LIBRARY |

I ADYG.RCISGR. {

iji «

ijii-i iji-j- .;- .;; r [i ~[. i;. .;; .;. .;. .;. .;- -;. r ;- ag s£ .\ .;. r ;; r ;. r ;- r ;. .;; .;; r ;- -;. .;- --;- -;. -;. .;- .;. .;. -j. .;. .;. .ji ;;; .;. .ji iji i»i j*

ST. H ELENA H Some,

Private Patients received and treated by their own

Medical Attendant.

Trained Nurses sent out on application to the Lady Superintendent,

i, GROVE END ROAD, LONDON, N.W.

TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS-"HELEIsT A, LOIsTDON-."

Established 1824.

CHRISTOPHER SEWELL (Late Shepherd)

4, DAVIES STREET, BERKELEY SQUARE, W.

"W ^.TCH A. 3NT JD C ZL O iKI HS/I^IKIEIR.

Practical Goldsmith and Jeweller.

MOURNING AND BRIDAL GIFTS TO ORDER.

Wat cites. Clocks, Musical Boxes, Cleaned. R repaired and adjusted by Experienced Workmen,

under personal supervision.

CLOCKS WOUND BY CONTRACT.

Old Gold, Silver & Precious Stones Exchanged or Purchased to anv amount.

J. DAY & SON,

jjtatioiurs, ffingratars, printers, biographers,
ant) Ru Fingers,
-** YIjSPPIflG CflRDJS TUftTIflftED /f]MD G6PIED. *♦
CARDS DELIVERED.

ESX.A-BLISiiEID 1776.

±6, MOUHSTT S T IR, E E T
LONDON, W.

173, NEW BOND STREET, W.

ICES for BALLS, DINNER and GARDEN PARTIES,

IN NOVEL FRENCH STYLES.
PACKED TO TRAVEL 30 MILES.

In all Sizes and at all Prices.

Billiard IB ^ X, X. S,

CLOTHS, CHALKS, CUES, TIPS,

And all other Billiard Requisites.
WHOLESALE, RETAIL, ,\- FOP EXPORTATION.

OLD BALLS ADJUSTED OR EXCHANGED,

AND

TABLES RE-CUSHIONED and RE-COVERED,

Adjusted, Removed, Bought, Sold, or Warehoused,

And every kind of Billiard Work executed with dispatch and at moderate cl

Price Lists, Cloth mid Cushion Rubber Sample*, Post Fr

When writing for Samples of the latter, what kind of Table

tlu'v are wanted.

HENNIG BROS.,

BILLIARD TABLE MAKERS, (

29, HIGH ST., LONDON, Reestablished

18 6 2.

Grosvenor SQUARE,
LONDON, W.

^ ^

<=?

*v

cP

Madame ' Pierre's ' bonnets and hats are of the
very highest order of elegance, and tho' possessing the
cachet of the best Paris Modes, their suitability to English
ladies is studied, and great attention is paid to their being
becoming and pleasant to wear. One would naturally
suppose the prices were as high as at most ' Lady Milliners,*
but this is far from the case — they are exceedingly moderate
for the value of material and style."

From " Le Follet."

ESTABLISHED 1780.

*cil Ciigtabers &' Die tinkers

I J. STANDISH & Coi




i

< ARMS. CRESTS 8c MONOGRAMS

ENGRAVED ON

i SK/il.S H\]) RINGS, GOLD, SILVER, IVORY.

&c, &c.

i

1 tfooh plates. Visiting dare, ^t-bomc. Dinner.
i Sobbing ant) ^nbit;ition phitcs (BiqjrBfrffr.

< JIKD/iLI.ISTS flflD LIYK1A' 1UITT0X JI1KKRN.
<

PHirtfEHjS 0V LlfjfoQWjiEl^.

| ( Sfolfc an Silver I tunis an jSfeala,

4 ANY PATTERN MADE TO ORDER.

j 92, MOUNT STREET, GROSVENOR SQ
< LONDON, W.

§?1 P

A-

OF

A COUNTRY HOUSE.

JULIAN Surges,

AUTHOR OF
THRALDOM," "JOHN Maiden," ETC.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:
JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.

1889.

rRINTF.D BY WILLIAM Closes AND »OKS, LIMITED,

STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

COMEDY OF A COUNTRY HOUSE,

CHAPTER I.

A young man came over the hill. He was
walking on one of those public field-paths
which lead the landless wayfarer through the
homely beauties of England, and make him
too for his little hour a lord of the happy
land. He went with long strides and with
the vigour of youth, but without the elasticity
of the first morning hours. One would have
known from his gait that he had been walking
^ all day. His strong, hob-nailed boots went
steadily forward ; his stick was no longer
swung in careless fashion ; his slouched hat
was pushed a little back from his forehead.
He tramped along in business-like way, like

VOL. I. B



*3

a vagabond to the manner born. Over his
left shoulder and under his right arm a thick
red blanket was rolled and fastened. Invisible
in the inner pocket of his old shooting-coat

were lighter luxuries — a comb, a clasp-knife,
and finally that tried companion of the
English gentleman in every climate and all
circumstances of life, his for richer for poorer,
the last thing from which he parts except his
life — the tooth-brush.

The young man came over the hill,
followed his little path across the v
shallow valley ; but where the path began to
rise again he left it, and climbing more
quickly through a little hanging wood, came
out above the trees on to a bare grassy knoll,
which gave a wide view of all the country
round. There he sat down with an inarticulate
murmur of satisfaction, stretched his I
legs before him, and raised hi eyebrow
the view. It was a brown landscape, for
the month was brown November; bnt no
monotony of colour could hide tithe

land. A wide plain lay open at his feet,
a plain to him who sat so high above it, but
really a wide stretch of gently swelling land,
of fertile but not heavy soil, of curves and
lines delightful to the eye ; an open country,
but with copses and coverts not a few, with
grass and ploughed fields in fair proportion.
The ploughed fields were of a warm, reddish
brown ; the bare hedges of a colder, darker
hue ; and the brightest specks were seen
where the yellow-brown leaves of the young
oaks still clung to the boughs. The pomp of
summer had gone, with its dark deep leaves
and yellow corn ; but if the scene of its
splendour was now bare and brown, the
brown was varied enough, and there was no
look of bareness in the woods, which seemed
to clothe the gentle slopes like the fur of some
soft brown beast.

The traveller was fond of the face of nature
and of the face of England. He looked with
much contentment across the wide expanse.
His eyes wandered with enjoyment, but they

came back again and again to one place,
where, miles away, the tower of an un-castle
rose above its more majestic trees. He
ixded this tower with a wl air,

half annoyed and half aran He had

walked all day for a sight of it. and. w
he saw it, he burst out languid was

his. Tis was that castle, which seemed to
raise its head that it might announce*
presence and its importance to the world.
His were all these well-tilled field
pleasant woods, as far as and farther than his
eve could see. And much of the land through
which he had tramped since dawn was his
too. He looked at the good country dirt
upon his boots and laugh in, thinking

that even that was his, and again that the
solid earth on which h<

centre. He was young and fanciful, and he
liked to amuse himself with such fan
And then he remembered another 1
estate in another county, with its appropriate
residence, and reports of landed | properties

comparatively unimportant, and a yacht
which was lying somewhere. And then too
in London there was the family mansion,
majestic in a majestic square ; and somewhere
in less lordly districts a lot of land, on which
houses were thickly built, and which, as he
had heard, would enable him to smile at the
lowest possible prices of agricultural produce.
But it was not at low prices that he smiled
like a Cheshire cat or a member of the
Cobden Club. He smiled at himself and at
the strange part which he was called upon to
play. He was young and fanciful, and easily
moved to laughter ; and he could not but be
interested and amused by the new, and in
its way brilliant, part which he was expected
to play. But here lay the element of
boredom. He was expected to play the part,
and to play it according to the well-known
traditions. Nothing was more firmly fixed
than the proper rules of conduct for the young
heir; and, as he looked at the tower, which
seemed to be peering over the trees and on

nmly looking for him, lie felt an
unmistakable repulsion and an unseemly
levity arising within him. W
his freedom over and the boyhood to which
he clung for it simplicity and joy? It
amused him to think of himself comp*
with thai castle in dignity ; it amused him, but
it vexe I him too; and, even while he I
there was vexation in the sound of his
laughter. He knew that in that Stately
abode was a country-house party gathered in
his honour; he knew that he ought to have
been at home to receive them twenty-four
hours before; he knew that his uncle was
there prepared to point out certain d
his doinir, and that his aunt was there to urge
him perhaps to duty en more important.

lie was by no means sure that he 1 t<»

these duties, and yet— and yet

the wide landscape the tender light of evening
was diffused. It was th.
ami encounter that country-house party, and
t<> surrender himself to th intend duties

of his position. There were people there
whom he would like to see, but the people
were a country-house party. " A country-house,
party," he said to himself; "it is
terrific."

All the vagabond in the boy rose against
the momentous words. He would have
another night of freedom, come what would.
He kissed his hand to the expectant tower,
and went down the further slope of the knoll.
He whistled as he walked back to the village,
where he had dined at midday. Nobody in
the village knew him, though, for aught he
knew to the contrary, he might be owner of
it all. He supped well as he had dined well ;
and he amused himself by trying to excite
the curiosity of the landlady, who was
evidently surprised at seeing neither a bicycle
nor a tricycle, neither a photographic camera
nor a closely strapped bundle of samples. He
encouraged in her a dawning belief that he
was something "in the detective lines'— a
belief which was due to a happy notion that

detectives went about in disguise, and that to
attract universal attention by a slouched hat
and a Rocky-mountain blanket was but
natural conduct of a member of the secret
police, a tribute to the dramatic nec
disguise. A brother of an Anglican Oi
who had recently visited the village, clad ina
brown robe and with a rope round his
waist, had excited in the good lady a like
lively suspicion.

After supper the vagabond took to the
road again. If the end of his liberty were
near at hand, he would have a deep draught
for the last. The night was fair, the wind
was light and westerly, and for a November
night there was but little cold. He turned
away into the fields, trespassing boldly
his own tenant's land, skirted a little n
lest some officious keeper of his own m
seize him as a poacher, and soon found the
suitable hay-stack which he sought. II
over the hurdles which surrounded it. rolled
himself close in his thick rod blanket, and lay

down to leeward of the stack. There he
would sleep, as he had slept before, close to
the kindly earth, beneath whose bare surface
the life of the next year was stirring now.
He liked to be so close to his mother earth.
He pulled some handfuls of hay and rolled
them in his cashmere scarf for a pillow ; and
so he lay and watched the watching stars.
And then he fell asleep, and slept soundly
till the first chill of dawn.

CHAPTER II.

One of the dreaded count try-house party,
perhaps the most terrible of all, was Lady
Jane Lock. On the morning after that
night, which her disappointing host
spent beside the haystack, Lady Jane was ina
pleasant room on the first floor of the
Castle, but not in a pleasant humour. She
was cross ; and, when she was cross, few
things annoyed her more than her
friend Susan Dormer's habit of smiling. Mrs.
Dormer now lay on the sofa with her most
provoking air of placidity. The sot
her; the room suited her. Ind had

chosen the room for her boudoir on account
of its double doors and its southern as]
and, since she was the aunt of this absurdly
rich young man, and had determined to keep

house for him until he married, these seemed
good reasons for choosing the best room in
the house as her own. Southern aspects and
double doors were recommended by her
doctor ; and to see her friend Jane " a little
put out " did her good too, though this was
no part of the doctor's prescription.

Lady Jane stood exceedingly erect and
stared out of the window without any
apparent pleasure in the south ; and indeed
the pleasant light, which came in, was not
becoming to her, for her high colour, tempered
by a liberal supply of violet powder, would
have produced a better effect had she turned
her back to the window. This great truth
was very clear to Susan Dormer, whose own
skin retained to a remarkable degree the
clearness and softness of girlhood. But Lady
Jane was not thinking of her own looks, but
rather of the broad acres which stretched
away before her eyes. She was a judge of
parks ; she had married two daughters to
them ; but there was no park so much to her

taste as this of Langleydale. What timber

and what a ring-fence ! She knew the length
of that fence.

"I'd Letter have gone t<> Blithe,'
said, still staring out of window. " The
Duke was most pressing," she added afl
minute, since Mrs. Dormer kepi silk I

Dukes are never pressing,' 1 murnr
Mrs. Dormer from the sofa.

It is no good at all," said Lady Jane.

"What is no good, dear?" asked 5
innocently.

No one has been in more country
than I have," said Lady Jane, as if
challenged contradiction.

But her friend only sighed. " How 1
you must have been, poor dear!" Bewitch
a soothing tone.

But never, never before has such a t :
happened to me. My ho ring

at all, and not a word of explanation, lei
alone apology ! "

"I know it is very disappointing, d<

said her friend, as if she sought to comfort
her, " when all your plans were so nicely laid
too."

My plans ! " cried Lady Jane, starting as
if at the flick of a whip. " I have told you
before, Susan, that I will allow nobody to
speak to me as if I were a worldly matchmaking
mother. There is no character of
which I have such a horror."

Did I say anything, dear, about matchmaking
? " asked her friend. " We all know
you are not worldly, I am sure. Your poor
dear Delia's marriage showed that."

It was evident that this instance of her
unworldliness failed to comfort Lady Jane
Lock. She turned and looked straight at her
friend, who met her with a candid smile.
No one could say that it was worldly of
you, Jane," said Susan Dormer, " to marry
your poor dear Delia to a scrub of a curate."

You know as well as I do, Susan, that
Delia's husband is a Vicar. It is exceedingly
likely that he will be made a rural dean."

How charming ! " murmured Susan ; " a
rural dean ! It's quite Arcadian* But it
was nice of you, dear," she continued with
gentle emphasis, " to marry her to some
who was — who was nobody.' 1

Adolphus's family is one of the oldest in
England."

"Really? How very nice! And is it
really true that they only have mutton twice
a week?"

Certainly not," said Lady Jane Lock ;
it is a detail, a ridiculous detail, but the
vicarage, a most lovely vicarage embowered
in roses, is in the heart of a famous sheep
country. I see nothing to laugh at."

Nor I, dear."

Delia does not require much butch
meat."

She is so right," said Mrs. Dormer, with
a marked access of seriousness ; "my d
says so. Twice a week is quite enough."

"My daughter can have mutt on every day,
if she wish."

Yes, dear Jane ; but who would wish to
have mutton every day ? You know, dear, I
was only saying how nice and unworldly it
was of you to marry poor dear Delia to a
penniless nobody ! "

I have told you again and again, Susan,
that, if Adolphus's mother had been a man,
she would have been fifteenth baronet."

Yes, dear ; but if she had been a man, she
wouldn't have been his mother."

Lady Jane Lock was taken aback. Her
friend's remark appeared to her equally
indelicate and unanswerable. She sat down
abruptly with a movement of disapproval and
took up the Morning Post.

"Any way, Jane," said Susan Dormer
presently, "I think we can do better for
Elizabeth."

Lady Jane Lock perceptibly concentrated
her attention on her paper.

"Of course things suit me very well as
they are," continued Susan, looking comfortably
around her, " but I know very well

that they can't stay like this. The poor dear
boy is so absurdly rich, and he is not at all
clever, except at books and that sort of thing
he can't escape long."

The Morning Post rustled in Lady Jai
hands, and a sound came from behind the
paper, which was suspiciously like the v
coarse."

Of course, dear, as you say," continued
Mrs. Dormer placidly, " of course the poor
dear boy is sure to be married by somebody.
So why not Elizabeth ? I am all for
Elizabeth. I do like her so much ; she is
so like her dear father."

•• Not in the least," said Lady J\{\\e, who
had intended, like Ago, to speak no more.
Mrs. Dormer ignored the contradiction,
smiled and said, " Elizabeth hi beauty :

she is not like poor Delia."

Many people," said Lady Jane, emphatically,
"admired Delia more than any
of her sisters''

"Did they, dear

I cannot help it," continued the other
loftily, "if the general taste of the day is
inexpressibly vulgar."

Oh, poor dear Elizabeth ! " murmured
Susan Dormer ; " that is too bad, Jane. I
should never think of saying that Elizabeth
looked vulgar. Perhaps she is not in the
most refined style ; I go with you as far as
that; but not vulgar — oh no, I really think
not."

Lady Jane Lock laid down the paper and
looked at the friend. She opened her mouth,
but shut it again with determination. After
a time she asked this question : " Susan, do
you think that Lord Lorrilaire is coming
here at all ? "

Yes," said Mrs. Dormer, " I am sure that
the poor boy will come. He* is odd, but he
really would have let me know if he was not
coming at all ; he knows that I asked
people."

Does he know that I am here ? "

Mrs. Dormer smiled. " I think thai lie

vol. i. c

suspects, poor dear," she said ; " lie is not
suspicious, but really after . — well,

I for one hope that we shall make the
match."

She re] smiling. On her large fair

face there was no sign that Bhe waltham
she was riot, making the mo
speeches to her friend. And te knew

Jane so well that she knew exactly where to
touch her with effect; and, when she was
administering a little wholesome dig, then
she smiled. Her smile was peculiar, for her
mouth was so small in comparison with her
smooth calm countenance, that a smile
duce hardly any effect on her ex]
A little extra amiability was sug
she smiled and said that she hoped th
would make the match.

I cannot tell you," said Lady Jane,
stiffening herself like a grenadier, " how
much I detest this talk of making man
I regard it as little better than impiety.* 1

"Oh!" said Mrs. Dormer, faintly.

Some marriages are made in heaven,"
said Lady Jane Lock, with due solemnity.

And others in country-houses," said her
friend. She was rather shocked when she
had said it, and added promptly — " that is
what Clara Chauncey says."

It is worthy of her," said Lady Jane,
sharply.

Yes, dear," said Mrs. Dormer ; " she is
so clever."

Clever, yes ! You know my opinion of
Mrs. Chauncey."

"Oh yes, dear."

A most dangerous woman ! "

Oh yes, dear," said Mrs. Dormer, smiling ;
"but not dangerous to us. Poor dear Clara
cannot interfere with our little plan."

Lady Jane made no comment hut an impatient
snort.

It was really an unlucky morning for Lady
Jane Lock. There were many questions which
she was eager to ask ; but on the other hand
she felt that she could not open her mouth

without a fresh sacrifice of dignity. Here
was such a good opportunity of a really useful
talk with her friend ; but it seemed to her, as
it often seemed to her, that her free
either so stupid or so perverse that she could
get nothing from her but annoyance.
was not even sure that Susan really 1» $He
that young Lord Lorrilaire would really
come ; and if he were not coming, she knew
that she ought to be angling for a rem-invitation
to Blithe ; she wondered if the
duke would ask her again. She was just
making up her mind to start afresh with
Susan, and to try to lead up by a new path
to those questions which she longed to
mere careless questions about the disposition
of the property and such matters, when she
heard the outer of the two doors opened, and
the voice of Sir Villiers Hickory asking it' he
mi lit come in.

Oh yes, do come in and amuse us, M
Mrs. Dormer; "we are so dull. I am told
to be amused after breakfast' The voice of

Susan Dormer had no other tone so solemn
as that in which she always referred to the
advice of her doctor.

Sir Villiers came in, looking brisk and
business-like. He was a very good-looking
man of his years. He had preserved his
light figure and his clear eyes, which were
almost colourless. For the rest, he was fresh-coloured,
with that rather mottled look which
rudely men acquire with time, thin-lipped
and firm of jaw and chin. He was a slender,
erect and alert elderly gentleman, and he was
admirably dressed. He gave thought to his
dress, determined that as an old man he
would be neither fop nor sloven, and determined
too that his clothes should not look as
if he thought about them. He was now
dressed, as he held that a man ten years
younger than himself should be dressed
in a country house on a week day ; he had
allowed himself the benefit of those ten
years after due deliberation, having decided,
and quite rightly, that he looked at least

ten years younger than his contemporaries
at the Club.

If Mrs. Dormer received Sir Villiers

graciously, Lady Jane made no great effort
to hide her annoyance.

"I never expect to see men in the mornii
she said; "why ain't you killing som

We can't always be killing," replied the
gentleman sharply ; " we leave that to the
ladies." It was a pretty speech, but not
without a slight tartness, a mere suspicion of
irony. Lady Jane only acknowledged it by
a sniff; but Mrs. Dormer was charmed.

You are a dear man ! " she said.

"Never mind that," said he. ''I have
come to ask if you haven't heard anything of
the boy."

Not a word," said Susan, smiling.

"It'll be awkward if he don't turn up," he
said.

"He always turns up," said she placidly.

"It is settled," said Sir Villiers, "that
Palfrey is to make a big speech at Lai

and I have asked him in Archie's name to
stay here for the affair."

But, my dear Villiers, I thought that the
poor dear boy was a Radical or a Republican,
or something."

It doesn't matter a fig what he was. He
was nobody, and might have been a Shaker
or a Peculiar Person for what anybody cared.
But now he is somebody, and now it does
matter. Langley Castle has always been the
centre of the Tory party in the county, and
Archie must give his money arid entertain
the spouters and tempers like other people.
Palfrey will certainly come, and Archie must
not only entertain him here, but must preside
at his meeting." He went to the fireplace
and put his hand on the bell. " May I
ring ? " he asked.

Of course, Yilliers ; and we will see if
anybody comes."

They come when I ring," he said.

The bell was pulled with decision, and
answered with promptitude.

Has Hawkins heard from Lord Lorraine
?" asked Sir Villiers.

"No, Sir Villiers," said the footman, "but
his Lordship have arrived."

"What?" cried Sir Villi*

Lady Jane leapt in her scat, and even Mrs.
Dormer turned her head.

Yes, Sir Villiers, he came in this morn
through the window of the long drawing-room,
when the housemaids were doing it.
His Lordship went straight to the bathroom."


Well ? Where is he now ? "

His Lordship is asleep."

In his room ? "

Yes, Sir Villiers."

Did he bring his luggage ? "

His Lordship's luggage is at Vanstone,
at the Blue Boar."

"The wrong house!" 1 Sir Villiers

sharply; " a Radical pol-1 Tell Blake

to send a cart for the lu —at

once !

Yes, Sir Yilliers ; " and the man departed.

When the two doors had been closed, Sir
Yilliers looked sharply from one lady to the
other.

We've got him," he said.

Yes," said Mrs. Dormer softly, smiling
on Lady Jane Lock, " we have got him."

Lady Jane wished not to understand,
wished to be indignant, but, before she could
decide what it were best to express, she,
much to her own surprise, gave vent to an
abrupt crude laugh.

CHAPTER III.

Presently young Lord Lorrilaire would
wake from his dream of the sheep-fold and

of the patient stars to find himself stretched

on his patent bedstead, and under his own
majestic roof. It seemed almost as likely
that he would wake a little later from his
dreams of freedom and of happy friendship
to find himself an engaged man and a patent
Conversation politician. His unci
Villiers Hickory, if his view was somewhat
narrow, saw all which it included, with a
remarkable keenness. He was not embarrassed
by doubts ; he was a man of decision ;
he had established the useful habit of ha
his own way. His aunt, Mrs, I 1 . had

a large store of that immovable ol
which is only found in women, and in

of a lethargic and most amiable temperament.
And, finally, Lady Jane Lock, though she
disliked the reputation of a successful matchmaker,
was at least a most fortunate mother-in-law.


Nevertheless, it was not the wishes of these
relations and friends which were the chief
danger of the young man, but rather the
mood which now possessed him — a mood
dangerously acquiescent. He was not deficient
in character, as the popular phrase is.
On the contrary, he had more character than
could be set forth in pieces by a few sentences
of even the most cunning analyst. He had
always been a clever boy, clever and kindhearted.
His mother, who had lost her
husband soon after the birth of this their only
child, had retired to a small place in the
country. There she had become by degrees,
and in spite of her gentle methods, the leading
philanthropist of the neighbourhood ; and
thence she had sent to London at long
intervals certain works of fiction, which

betrayed on every page her tenderness of
heart, her timid love of religion, her delicate
literary taste, and her sublime ignorance of
the world. By the side of this gentle mother
her little boy had trotted into cottages,
and ceased his cheerful babble for a moment,
wondering that there was sorrow in the world.
His mother had loved to' soften the little h
which did not need it. The first money
which the little hand had held was put into
it that it might be given to the poor.
Archie Rayner had learned, before he was
breeches, that he must look about for t
who needed help, and help them as well as he
could. This seemed an uncommonly simple
affair to the little boy, and, so long as it went
no further than carrying half his pudding to
the little lame boy at the lodge, it was
simple enough.

Archie went straight from home to a public
school, and after the first night, when he cried
himself to sleep, he found a pleasure quickly
growing in the companionship o^l other little

boys. Playing with, zeal, working without
lassitude, and idling less than most of his
fellows, he had not much time to remember
that there were any less fortunate lads in the
world ; and, as his intelligence grew rapidly
and he began to question this and that, the
village and its wants, of which he read in his
mother's letters, seemed so small in the distance
that he could scarcely help laughing at
his mother's seriousness. It was like the
little scraps of good advice which she put in
her postscripts, and for which he loved her,
though he laughed. Indeed, he laughed a
great deal, being given to laughter, and a
popular and pleasant person. And then,
when he was sixteen years old, his tutor,
who was what was called in those days a
Philosophical Radical, was struck by one of
his questions, which sounded intelligent,
invited him to join his Debating Society, lent
him some books, and administered to him an
occasional sententious maxim as a stimulant
to youthful thought. Thereupon a new world

seemed to open before the boy, who had not
caught the true scholar's interest in the
structure of the Greek and Latin lai
He read eagerly, and, as he read and thought,
his childhood's philanthropy r long

again within him ; and the questions,
and political, which he asked hie 1 his

tutor, tended more and more to take the
practical shape— how to help the poor. It
became apparent at once that this was no b
simple affair as it had seemed in the far-off
days of pennies and pudding. Presently he
wrote home a boyish pompous letter to his
mother, questioning her methods, and more
than hinting that his researches were likely
to lead to the conclusion that she was pauperizing
the parish. His mother was immen
proud of his letter, and not at all disturbed by
the criticism, having that power, ion

in mothers, of combining an admiration

of the cleverness of her child with
complete indifference to his opinions.

But the Debating Society and the Stimulating

tutor soon showed this young scholar
that there were other interesting political questions
besides that of helping the poor. What
was the object of politics ? He asked his tutor
this question ; and his tutor put into his hands
for answer Mill's " Essay on Liberty." This delighted
the boy, for it brought simplicity again
into matters which had seemed chaotic, and
provided a touchstone by which he could try
all Acts of Parliaments and all suggestions of
Reformers. It was clear to him that Government
had nothing to do with the poor, except
to secure their liberty as it secured that of
other citizens; he maintained in debate that
even workhouses were contrary to right reason,
though it might be inexpedient to level them
at one stroke to the ground ; he recommended
charity with all the approved safeguards to
his fellow members as a matter of private
enterprise. It says much for Archie Rayner
that these fellow members liked him, in spite
of his long speeches ; but then all his little
world liked him. If he, who had not yet

learned the meaning of Philosophy, philosophized
at too great length, he philosophized
without effeminacy; for he loved the river
in summer and the foot-ball field in winter,
and, like the Athenians, he did much of his
living, and even some of his debating, in
fairest places and in the happy outer air.

When Archie went up to Oxford, he
thought that he knew a great deal about
many things, and he was confident at least
that he carried with him the right foundation
of the right political faith. He turned
eagerly to the other Freshmen to see what
their views were ; and, since he had gone upto
an eminently intellectual College und

no lack of opinions. He may be said to have
run straight into the arms of a young
Mazzini, and within twenty-four hours his
radicalism had lost what now seemed to him
its insular character; his zeal for Liberty had
extended as far as the Sclavs, of whose
existence he had been previously unaware :
and his dry political maxims had been flo

by a new enthusiasm and glorified by all the
sacred emotions of religion. With this
young Mazzini, Thomas Beck, who had
been the prize boy of a great town in the
North, and who was supported at Oxford by
contributions of his wealthier townsfolk,
Archie Rayner struck up a warm friendship.
With him and with other youths he exchanged
ideas, as if ideas were inexhaustible.
It was a splendid time ; but not much of it
was exhausted before all their little opinions,
which had seemed to be so firmly based,
were crumbling. They discussed everything ;
nothing was to be accepted without discussion
; and the result was that Beck began
to admit that Mazzini had expected too
much from average people, and that men
were hungry and wicked even in Republics ;
while Archie was delighted with his new
talent for paradox, and began to make light
of that Liberty which included the liberty to
be drunk daily, to starve in peace, and i<>
spread disease by the foul condition of the

VOL. I. d

house, which was, as freemen loved to
an Englishman's castle.

These happy and inquiring young men
devoured the volumes of Carl vie, and attain
due course lectures on Philosophy. 1
Carlyle and from the metaphysics from

their own growth and from their own
discussions, they learned that the univ
was yet deeper and higher than they had
thought, more mysterious, more complicated.
It was no longer so simple a matter for a
young man to decide what he should do with
his life. To this practical question Archie
Rayner, who was at bottom a very practical
person, was for ever returning, to the
vexation of some of his more brilliant comrades,
who preferred wider and less pen
considerations. The universe alone was wide
enough for them ; but Archie stuck firmly to
his intention of being of some use in the
world. Only it had become hard for him to
tell how he could be of most use, or indeed of
any use at all. From Carlyle, for example,

he learned that he should do that work which
lay nearest to his hands : but this was small
help to Archie, who declared with conviction
that he could see no work close to his hands.
He was an only child ; he had enough money ;
he objected to be rich. Since he could not
believe that it was his duty to make money,
he could see no reason for embracing any one
of the obvious professions. He regarded
lawyers as a necessary evil ; his success at
the Bar would take work from men who
needed it more, and who would serve the
public at least as well. He did not wish to
compete with his mother in spinning delicate
sentences ; he had at that time an amused
contempt for novels. He might take a good
degree and might get a Fellowship ; but the
idea of eternal Oxford did not please him ; it
seemed like the prolonging of youth without
remaining young. He was not a poet.
Finally, he could not give his life to the
service of the poor, for be did not know how
best to serve them. His beliefs had got loose ;

his opinions were changing under each new
influence which he met ; he was but twenty-three
years old. "When he had taken his
degree with credit, the only fact, of which he
felt certain, was that it would be well for him
to go away alone for a while and to com
in solitude that same old question, what work
he should do in the world. So he made up
his mind to go straight from Balliol to the
Rocky Mountains, and for all his solemn
doubts he felt a boyish joy in the contract.
His mother shed some natural tears : she
dreamed of bears and of Indians, and woke
sobbing. She would rather have seen him
safe in studious chambers, or, and this would
have been best of all, in some such delightful
vicarage as she had described in more than
one of her novels. But he was determined to
go, and, though he was very kind to his
mother, he went.

Archie had gone to think among the mountains.
He found a silent mate, who knew them
well, and he and his new friend camped out

together. The eternal snow, the canons cut

deep in the mountains as if with one stroke

of a knife of preternatural sharpness, above all

the keen pure air, delighted the boy. Perhaps

he thought ; it is certain that he walked long

distances in search of black-tailed deer, and

was less eager for a time to decide upon a

life's career than to attain to a high degree of

© ©

accuracy with the rifle. He once saw a
bear and missed him clean, and the depression,
from which he suffered for the next twenty-four
hours, brought back on him in a flood
his doubts of the nature of the universe and
of his mission therein. But he could not be
down-hearted in that delightful air; his
breath quickened, his ears tingled, and he
seemed within a little of flying ; at night he
lay in his blankets reading Schwegler's
History of Philosophy," while his comrade
smoked in silence. Whether this life would
have led the boy to a definite decision about
his future, it is impossible to say ; for it was
cut short, before its first charm bad begun to

fail, by the most amazing news. One day
he had been forced to journey down to
Colorado Springs for a few necessaries of life,
and he found there some letters, which told
him that he had become Lord Lorrilaire, and
had acquired, as heir of the late lord, lands
and houses and a great fortune in moi

Archie had not completed his University
education without being asked if he were one
of the Manners of Langley ; he had answered
generally that he believed so, and, if in his
most communicative mood, he had added the
information that the Manners of Langley had
done very well without him. Indeed, the
late Lord Lorrilaire, who was the head of the
family, had never shown that he was aware
that there was a widowed Mrs. Rayner, who
was connected with his family. The title
and estates had gone from father to son for
many generations ; and it had not occurred to
this particular father that there was any
doubt that the title and estates would pass indue
course from him to his son. He was by

no means an old man, and his son was
strong and active and sure to marry soon, as
was the plain duty of an only son. Now, it
happened that Lord Lorrilaire paid a visit to
the house of a friend, and that this house,
though it combined great dignity and
antiquity with all the modern luxuries, was
in a state by no means satisfactory to sanitary
inspectors. Lord Lorrilaire carried home
from this visit the seeds of typhoid fever ; he
was stout and ruddy and too much inclined to
fever ; it was presently known that he was
in great danger. They telegraphed to his
son, who was travelling in India ; and on the
next day they were forced to telegraph
again that Lord Lorrilaire was dead. The
second telegram crossed another sent from
India, which brought news that his son had
had an accident while riding through a river
and had been drowned, before help could be
given. It was a question, which interested
Society at the moment, whether the father or
the son had died first. A question, which

interested them more, was the qnesti >n, who
was the heir; but the people best informed
were at a loss. Even Lady Jane Lock did

not know, nor could she find the right man
in the Peerage. It was reserved for the
family lawyers, not without a moment's

doubt, to declare that the title and estate
Liiueshire, Loamshire, and the Parish of St.
Mary-narbonne, passed to Archibald, only
son of the late Captain Rayner of the Royal
Artillery. Thus Archie had become a lord.
He blushed in Colorado Springs as he learned
it. He felt a fool ; that was his first feeling.
He rode back to camp, and blushed again ashe
told his mate. "How's that?" said the
mate, who had come West from Chicago. —
What in thunder are you ? "

I'm a lord," said Archie ; "and I've got
to go home and learn the business."

He presented the History of Philosophy to
his friend, and would have given him the
rifle too, had he not been so quietly con!"
of the superiority of American weapons. He

felt that lie could give away things with an
easy hand ; that was one advantage any way.
He said good-bye to his mate and to the
mountains, which he loved ; went down to
Pueblo and took the train ; and he did not
rest from travelling till he reached London.

It is not surprising that Archie Rayner
was confused by this strange stroke of fortune.
Before he was sure of his own religion, he
found that he had Church-livings to give
away. Discontented with both the parties,
which monopolized the field of politics, he
was placed in a position, which had always
been one of great political influence. Ignorant
of society, and especially of women, he was
received by society with a simple friendliness,
and with a frank curiosity which was hardly
impertinent. On the whole he enjoyed himself
immensely, almost as much as in his first
days in the Rockies. And he began to
wonder if his practical question were not
answered. Family lawyers, men of the
world, charming women, seemed all to agree

that his course in life was clear. Nobody
even asked him what he meant to do.
Certainly now there was work to his hand,
if he chose to do it. To do the work nea
to him was perhaps the best answer, which
he had got to all his old questioning. There
were clear duties attached to this new position
of his ; this ought to content him. What if
he should let himself go and see what would
happen to him ? It was easy ; it would be
great fun. If he found himself a prop of the
Conservative party, was it not perhaps the
party of the most real and practical reforms -
If he found himself in love, that might be
delightful. Heretofore he had been in love
with phantoms. Now these young girls in
society were charming, with their little airs
and fashions, and their belief that they knew
the world; and there was not one of them
handsomer or more interesting than Elizabeth
Lock. In her he fancied that there was
something deeper than in the others; and
certainly her hair was of the most beautiful

colour. So lie had let himself drift through
a London season and had gone down safe to
his mother in her quiet home. And then the
time had come, when his uncle Sir Villiers
Hickory, and his aunt Mrs. Dormer (for his
mother was dismayed at the idea of leaving
her own studio and her own neighbourhood),
had decreed that he must entertain a party, a
very little one for a beginning, at Langley
Castle. Thither he went as to a comedy,
and laughed when he thought that the chief
player would be himself. Perhaps he was
but a dancing doll, and others would pull the
strings ; but even that thought made him
laugh . He had let himself go for a while ;
he could always pull up when he liked ; he
was sure of that. So partly by train and
partly on foot the heir had come to his own,
and now lay asleep under the imposing roof
of Langley Castle, drawing his breath with
happiness, and yet, it seems, in truly parlous
state.

CHAPTER IV.

"I am the most unlucky devil in the world,"

said Leonard Yale. If he were unlucky, he
did not seem to be uncomfortable. He was
in the pleasant morning-room of Langley
Castle ; he had pulled the biggest arm-chair
near to the fire, and he almost lay in it with
his long legs stretched far on to the rug-before
him. His long white hands, each
weighted with a single heavy ring, lay limp
along the arms of the chair ; his great dark
eyes were half closed, as if it were too much
trouble to raise the lids; he seemed to bespeaking
to his long, slender feet

Mrs. Chauncey, who was the only other
person in the room, made no comment on the
speech of the young man. She had heard it
before Indeed, in the early hours of the

day Leonard Yale was apt to take this view
of himself, and to mention it to anybody to
whom he spoke at all ; and Clara Chauncey,
who was an old friend, paid no more attention
to his speeches of this sort, if spoken before
luncheon, than she would have paid to the
natural expressions of a sleepy cat. However,
she was inclined at the moment to talk.
She too had made herself comfortable in a
feminine fashion. For a woman, who is well
dressed for the day, there is no comfort in a
large arm-chair. She had seated herself in
an armless chair with a convenient back, and
placed her feet, which were two of her best
points, on a puffy footstool. Her eyes w T ere
not half closed. On the contrary, they were
wide open, and they regarded the young man
opposite with that innocent inquiring gaze
which Mrs. Chauncey used often and often
with effect. She would have laughed at the
idea that she wished to produce an effect on
this youth, whom she chose to regard as a boy
and as a fit object for lectures ; but these

little arts of charming women naturally
become habits in time, so that it is no rare
thing to see an habitually fascinating lady
making eyes at her housekeeper, while her
mind is wholly busy with the important
question of the day's dinner.

"My dear boy," said Mrs. Chauncey, fixing
her round candid eyes upon Leonard, " you
smoke too many cigarettes. That's what's
the matter with you."

I like that from you," he said without
moving or turning his eyes.

"Oh, I have given up smoking," she said.
feeling a keener interest in the talk as it
turned on herself.

Since when ? "

Since so many women took to it," she
said; "it is commonplace now. Lady »T.
smokes; her maid told mine; she says it is
for asthma; it is so droll t<> have a reason."
All this she said with her pretty Burn
air. Pretty she still was beyond all question,
although she was always telling people with

her delightful simplicity that she was no
longer young. It is true that her face was
now pale and a little too thin, but the brown
eyes were all the more effective. " Ah, you
boys ! " she said again after a minute ; " you
do ask so much of life. Look at me." He
turned a lack-lustre eye upon her, as she continued.
" Suppose I were to begin complaining.
What a tale I could tell ! Married
to a — to my husband, to a man who cared for
nothing but yachting, I who couldn't go on a
river without qualms ! " He began to laugh
in spite of himself. She regarded him
gravely ; her talk was like the artless prattle
of a child. " All on account of that yachting,
and because I really could not spend my life
at all sorts of angles, I have been cruelly
abused and talked about, and "

You don't mind that much."

That shows how much you know. I
used to think that I didn't mind what women
said ; I was very foolish and defiant ; I know
a great deal better now." She emitted a

little sigh. Te could not help showing that
he was a little amused; he thought her the
cleverest woman in the world 1. She needed
very little encouragement to induce her to
continue to talk about herself.

I lost the privilege," she said gravely, " of
going to many of the dullest country houses
in England." He laughed. " You need not
laugh," she said ; "all my energies, my whole
being is now directed to the one purpose of
creeping back."

"Of what?"

Of creeping back into those houses. Dear
Susan Dormer ! She has never turned her
back, her broad back, upon me. I cannot
tell you how full of peace and gratitude 1
now when I am staying at Langley. Did you
see the little paragraph in the paper ? n

I can't say I did."

' Mrs. Chauncey has left town for Langley
Castle"' she murmured; "how peaceful it
sounds, and how prosperous ! The one
thing," she continued presently, "which all

women find absolutely necessary is to be
able to look down on some other women.
I am assured that you find that among the
very lowest. I am now able to look down
on women who do not stay at Langley."

You will be able to look down on me
pretty soon," he said, relapsing into sullenness.

My dear boy, " she said, " I always have
looked down upon you ; but you are not a
woman, if you are a little womanish."

You needn't abuse me ; I am down enough
on my luck, heaven knows ! "

Does it?" she asked with her innocent
gravity. " What is the matter, if it is not
cigarettes ? "

He moved in his chair and grumbled
inarticulately ; at last with a voice full of
injury he said —

I used to come to you to help me."

"Ah, if it had been a bad habit, you
wouldn't have given it up ! "

Oh, I don't suppose you'll care ; I don't
see why you should," he muttered.

VOL. I. E

About what ? " she asked.

About my getting the sack."

The sack ! What for ? " she asked again.

You ain't generally so stupid, Clara ;
you must know that these women are going
to marry Archie."

Are you so fond of your cousin Arch'
she asked after a minute, " that you cannot
bear the idea of his belonging to another ? "

Well," he answered defiantly, " it is
uncommon hard on him ; he hasn't had a bit
of fun ; and it's deuced hard on me. Here am
I, older than him, and quite as near to the
late lord, only it happened to be through a
woman instead of a man."

Ah, that makes a difference," she said ;
women don't count ; they never do."

Well, it does seem hard lines," he said,
aroused to a perceptibly higher level of
animation, " that he should have every blessed
thing which a man can want, and that I, who
used to come here all the time and make
myself useful n

Useful ? " she asked with an air of surprise ;
my dear boy ! Useful ? "

Well, it is deuced hard. He was never
near the place in his life till he came to take
possession."

But why the sack ? " she asked. " I
thought that he had done the handsome thing
by you. I hear that you've taken the best
rooms in the house for yourself."

Who told you that ? "

My maid. She had it from your man."

Well, I really shouldn't go listening to
the servants' gossip," he said sulkily.

Wouldn't you ? You are so wrong. I
always do. I learn everything from my maid.
It is such a good plan ; it amuses her so much
that she doesn't bother about her wages ; she
is like a friend, you know ; she adores me."

As he made no comment on these frank
statements, she continued —

My maid says that you have taken the
whole Tower wing for yourself and made it
charming."

i-pjtfrt . « e u ut

It's only three rooms," he said ; " and
nobody used them. They were given up to
mouldy targets and broken bird-cages— and
black-beetles, I dare say."

Ugh ! " she said with a shudder.

T thought I was more worthy than a
black-beetle. Perhaps I flattered myself."
Re said this with more pleasure, feeling as it'
he too could be witty.

Perhaps," she said with gravity ; " <
never knows. And you have done the
rooms well ? "

I think I've made 'em nice," he answered
comfortably. " Archie told me to do what T
liked with them, you know."

And to send the bill to him," she said, as
if completing his sentence.

It wouldn't be much good their sending
it to me," he said. " Of course he felt that I'd
been devilishly badly treated — oh, I don't
complain of Archie."

Don't you ? Put you don't want him to
be married and to live happy ever after ; and

you do want to stay in your nice rooms,
curled up like a gorged fox in a rabbit-warren."


You needn't call names," he muttered.

My dear boy," she said, " you are quite
right : of course you want to stay where you
are, and to drink his wine and to shoot his
coverts and to ride his horses "

When I'm not too jumpy," he said, as she
paused at a loss for the next luxury. " You
know all about me, Clara," he continued ; " I
always told you everything. You know I'm
a nervous subject ; and you know I can't do
without the luxuries of life. How can I ? "

Nerves and luxuries," she remarked
thoughtfully, as if to herself. " How can I
help you ? " she asked him presently.

You might advise me."

You don't want me to flirt with the boy,"
she said slowly, looking at him gravely with
her round artless eyes ; " I am old enough to
be his mother."

Clara, what nonsense " he began.

It can't be done," she said ; " you forget
that I am creeping Lack. It might have
amused me once, just to cut out the girl, and
no harm done ; but now — my dear boy. /
should get the sack : I would much rather it
was you who got the sack."

Thank you ! "

"I am just trembling in the balance with
Lady J. now," she said ; u I am truckling to
her, grovelling ; she was dreadfully annoyed
at finding me here ; she wanted Susan
Dormer to give me warning on the spot.
Expect nothing from me. I have no energies
left except for creeping back."

Leonard Yale did not expostulate with his
friend. He only shifted himself a little in
his chair, pulled his sleek black moustache
into a point, and bit his under lip. Mrs.
Chauncey knew in a moment that he had not
yet said what he wished to say. and that she
had been wrong in thinking that he wisher
to divert young Lord Lorrilaire from the
dangers of matrimony.

There's somebody else, you know," he
said at last, " who might save Archie — I
wanted to ask your advice, you know — if she
were to come down, you know "

"Who?"

You see, she's the only woman in London
who knew Archie before. She w r as the
parson's daughter down at his home, wherever
it was."

A slight change of expression came into
Mrs. Chauncey's eyes, and the thin sensitive
lips, which had been so long schooled in the
concealment of feeling, pressed each other a
little more tightly. She knew well of whom
he was speaking, but she chose to keep her
look of inquiry.

It's Mrs. Rutherford," he said, still looking
at his boots. Then, as her continued
silence made him nervous, he gave one glance
in her direction, looked away again, and
went on speaking.

"You see, she don't want Archie to marry
yet; she thinks he don't know anything of

the world, and that she knows all about it ;
she thinks she's his only friend and has got
a sort of mission to save him from matchmaking
mothers; she was furious with Lady
J. in London''

"She is very pretty," said Mrs. Chance

wish you'd advise me," he said ; ~ I
wish you'd tell me if it would do for her to
come down here."

You have asked her to come already," she
said quietly.

He opened his mouth as if he were going
to lie, but he shut it again and pulled himself
into a more upright position. " It's no good
trying to humbug you," he said : " I've not
asked her, for I've no right to ask any
but I have written to her and told her who
are here."

And that will bring her without committing
you to anything."

Do you think she'll come?" he asked
almost deferentially.

"You ought to know best-lie said
frankly ; "she certainly is very pretty*'

What's that got to do with it ? "
Clara Chauncey knew that she was vexed,
and did not mean to show it. It has been
said that there is no love without jealousy :
however that may be, there is plenty of
jealousy without love. She was jealous now.
She knew perfectly well that this boy was
trying to break to her diplomatically that a
younger and prettier woman was coming,
and that he thought it necessary to be
diplomatic because he thought that she would
be jealous of his devotion to the new-comer.
She would have liked to impress upon him
with something more convincing than words,
with the fire-irons perhaps, how very little
she cared or ever had cared about him. But,
though it is perfectly true that her warmest
feeling for Leonard had been a mild amusement
in forming, as she called it, a handsome
boy, who came to tea and could be sent for
theatre tickets, yet it is no less true that it
annoyed her to think of his devoting himself
to anybody else. It annoyed her that she

would no longer be the pretty married woman
of the party ; it annoyed her that this other
woman was so young and looked so happy ;
it annoyed her most of all that this sulky
youth was trying to manage her and thought
that she would be jealous on his account.
His side-long looks annoyed her.

Of course she will come," she said : u she
will propose herself to Lord Lorrilaire ; she
will think it great fun to invite herself. She
is an absurd little creature, married out of a
parson's schoolroom, and thinks she knows
the world ; but it is a pretty absurdity. She
will come down full of importance to Bave
the friend of her childhood. You admire her
very much, don't you?" She asked this
with a delightful frankness and one of her
rare smiles.

Oh, of course I admire Mrs. Tom," he said
with a clumsy masculine effort to answer her
in the same tone ; " everybody admired her ;
it was the thing this year."

And I do not wonder," she said ; " she is

so pretty and so fresh, so refreshingly fresh. It
will be very pleasant for you if she comes."

It will save my place for me," he said
with a happy inspiration ; " that's what
matters to me."

She sat looking at him with her air of
quiet study. " Yes," she said, " that is what
will always matter most to you. Of course
it is too late to stop this plot of yours."

There's no plot of mine," he said ; " I
just told her who were here. If she likes to
propose herself, it's her own look-out."

If she gets into a scrape," she said, " that
is her own look-out too. She need not look
to you to help her." She made these statements
with the coolness and certainty of a
mathematical professor ; and they stung
Leonard Yale to some show of temper.

"Upon my word, Clara," he said, " you
seem to be trying to say the most disagreeable
things you can."

"Who? I?" She seemed to be truly
surprised.

Yes, you," he answered ; " but never
mind ! I'm so down that any one may hit me —
and you most of all, of course." He slipped
back to his depressed and dependent air.

Of course," she said, " you told me nothing
of this until it was too late to stop her
coming."

"Oh, I dare say you can stop it, if you
like," he said, " and leave poor Archie to be
married, and set me adrift again just when I
have a chance of pulling up and staying quiet
and paying my debts "

"And living on your rich bachelor cousin."
she added for him, as he paused. " And the
husband ? " she asked presently ; " has Mr.
Rutherford no say in the matter ? "

Not much," answered Leonard, with a
short laugh.

Really ? " she said ; " I used to know him
a little. I should not have thought that lie
was that sort of man."

She'll come, if she likes," said he. nodding
his head.

His knowing air exasperated Mrs. Chauncey.
She had a great power of self-control, but
she knew that, if she continued to sit opposite
to Leonard, she would presently say more
than she meant to, show her annoyance, and
then, angry with herself for showing annoyance,
say yet more, and finally have several
rash speeches of which to repent at leisure.
So she rose from her chair, and looked at the
clock, and said, " I cannot waste any more of
my morning in talking to you ; " and so
walked out of the room.

Leonard Yale, left alone, let himself slide
even lower down in his low arm-chair, and
pushed his hands deep down into his trousers'
pockets. He felt ill-used by fortune and by
friends ; he doubted if he had any friends.
He could not tell if this Clara Chauncey, who
had pretended to be his friend and to lecture
him for his good, meant to help him or to
hinder him at this crisis. He told himself
that after such a series of bad things, as only
an unlucky chap experiences, he had at last

come in for a good thing; and that now it
was at least ten to one that he would lose it.
He recalled his first annoyance when lie
found that he was not to he a penny the
better for the death of the late lord, and his
amazement when the present man, fresh from
Colorado, had burst in upon him in his
lodgings, sympathized warmly with his sense
of ill-usage, and asked as a matter of course
to be allowed to pay his debts, and to set him
on his legs again. Since that astonishing
visit Lenny had been wondering at odd times
what this prosperous cousin (for Archie had
insisted on the cousinship, which was none of
the nearest) expected to get out of him in
return. He had made a half-hearted suggestion
that he should be an agent or 
something, but Archie had received it
joke. He had a great many acquaintances
whom it was considered a treat to know,
male and female, of all shades ; but his cousin
did not seem even to wish for introductions.
He knew a man, who was one of the lew men

who knew a horse ; but his cousin had
already commissioned his uncle Sir Yilliers
to fill his stables. He knew the correct place
to go to for cigarettes and the champagne
which it was right to drink that year ; and
Archie received his information on these
points, but rather as if he humoured him.

Lenny, recumbent in the big arm-chair,
wondered once more if this new Lord
Lorrilaire could be such a flat as to have paid
his debts and filled his pockets for nothing.
He could not believe that anybody would
encumber himself unasked and at the very
start of his life with poor relations. He
assured himself with a knowing nod that if
he had come in for all this, he would have
had no hangers-on. If he did not imagine
himself kicking himself out of Langley Castle,
it was only because his imagination was
limited. Nevertheless, he felt that he would
be injured more deeply than ever, if lie were
made to lose his hold now. And this haddington
was so uncertain a business for anyone

who was not quite a prehensile ape.
Before luncheon and in his dejected mood he
was half inclined to give the whole thing up.
The difficulties seemed enormous ; he felt
chilly, in spite of the good fire, as he thought
of all the trouble ; he would have to walk
among egg-shells. He had seen the suspicion
of him in the eyes of Lady Jane Lock within
half an hour of her arrival. Mrs. Dormer
was always kind, and Sir Yilliers had been a
friend of his father ; but Sir Yilliers had a
keen eye, and Mrs. Dormer saw so much more
than she seemed to. And then his thoughts
passed again to Clara Chauncey, and stirred
him to fresh annoyance. Why in the world
could not she say if she would help him or
not ? If not, he might as well be packing
his portmanteau. And Dora Rutherford ?
"Would she come ? If she came, would it be
known that he had brought her ? He hoped
that she would come, and yet he feared. He
feared his very hope, for it surprised him by
his strength. If he could not trust his



friends, he could not trust himself either.
He knew that his nerves might fail him at
any time ; he dared not answer for his self-control
at a critical moment. Already he felt
feverish and good for nothing. Again he
pronounced himself, with something like a
smothered howl, to be the most unlucky
brute in the world.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER V.

Young Lord Lorrilaire was grumbling too,
as he got himself into his clothes with unusual
difficulty on the morning after his return to
Langleydale. He had plunged into his
country-house party, and risen to the surface
again and felt the better. And then the rest of
his day had been full of amusing discoveries,
which had made it almost as fascinating as a
young adventurer's first day in a new world.
And yet he grumbled, as he dressed himself.
He did not like to spend so much time in the
adornment of his person ; it seemed absurd ;
and yet for that day at least he was bound to
be particular about each wrinkle, and each
button. He had grown so warm while he
strove so conscientiously for accuracy, that

he had opened his windows to their utmost
width, and the room, in which he still felt a
stranger and explorer, was full of the clear
cool air. A little too clear and cool it was
for the ideal hunting morning ; but to Archie
it seemed that on that portentous day the
hunting was of small importance. He was
to display himself, as his uncle had arranged,
to the members of the Hunt ; he felt as if he
were the object of the chase, and as if landlords,
farmers, the town contingent from
Langstone, even horses and hounds were
coming out to find him instead of the fox.
His hat, his tie, his spurs, every detail of his
appearance would be criticized, and his seat
and his hands, about which no one had cared
in happy days gone by. Severe eyes would
be on his back as he rode at a hedge, mark
horn if he deviated from a rigid line across
country, betray amazement if he grew bored
and went home. Of his clothes he felt confident,
for he had gone to him, whom Lenny
had described tersely as the only breed Les-maker

; but this putting them on was a tiresome
business. It was only better than
yielding himself to the hand of his body-servant
; for he had not had a body-servant
since he had grown too big for a nurse, and
he never breathed freely now till he had dismissed
this most oppressive burden of his
state. He would much rather help his valet
into his clothes than be helped into his own.

As Archie tugged and buttoned, he remembered
other days, some at Oxford, and
some in his mother's neighbourhood at home,
when after duly counting the cost he had
treated himself to a day's hunting. Much
fun he had enjoyed upon hardly-worked
strange-looking beasts, and, as they were
always ready to go and Lis treats in this kind
were rare, he had ridden his hardest and seen
what he could. Much fun he had enjoyed ;
and now memory, as is her happy way,
smoothed away the little mishaps and discomforts,
the unexpected cropper and the
long ride home upon a tired screw, and

showed him the pleasure only. Nobody cared
then what he wore, or how he rode ; he did
not feel as if he were clad in pasteboard, and
he rode to please himself. Now it seemed to
him that he must ride to satisfy his neighbours
; his uncle was evidently anxious, lest
he should not show off the horses, which he
had chosen. Archie thought of that row of
animals in prime condition, and imagined
each one of them expecting to be taken out
in turn. It seemed as if it would take all his
life, be the life's business of which he had
dreamed, a business as distinct from pleasure
as any other business, a truly British amusement
solemn as affairs of State, affording
occupation to the unemployed, and with as
little to show for it in the end as the exercise
of the treadmill. Having arrived at this
thought, he began to smile again, partly
because he was nearly dressed, partly because
the thought itself was extravagant. After
all, he would presently feel a good horse
moving under him, and that was pleasure ;

and, if the neighbours were critical, it was
probably an exaggeration to assert that they
would value him more than the fox ; the fox,
though probably he was better known in the
county, would after all excite the keener
interest. He began to smile at his own folly
in taking himself as seriously as if he were
an Under-Secretary, or the manager of a
theatre. And the air kept coming in at the
open window, bringing health and good
spirits, if it were by a touch too keen to
satisfy the exigent sportsman ; and presently,
when his glass showed him a cheerful young
Englishman blushing at his own splendour,
he even felt a slight pleasure in being
properly turned out for the first time in his
life. He restrained a tendency to fright his
castle from its tremendous propriety with a
view halloa ! " and descended happy, if stiff,
to meet his guests at breakfast.

In dangerously easy mood was young
Lord Lorrilaire, as he descended the star]
somewhat stiffly in his admirable breeches.

It even seemed the best fun possible to let
things slide, and himself slide with them. It
was likely that all things, his very life itself,
would be settled for him, before he had done
saying to himself that there was time to
spare, and that he could assert himself on any
future day. In the mean time it was pleasant
and easy to please everybody.

Lady Jane Lock did not approve of girls
going out h anting. It was opposed to her
theories of female education ; and the success
of her daughters so far had given her no
cause to doubt the wisdom of her theories.
But she knew that Elizabeth was different ;
she was not quite sure that she understood
Elizabeth, though it seemed monstrous that
she should not understand her own child.
Elizabeth was never so happy as when she
was on a horse ; and, when she longed for a
day's hunting and an absolutely fit and
proper guardian was at hand, her mother did
not always prevent her. She did not prevent
her on this day. She had asked her usual

questions on the previous evening, and had
been assured that it was an easy sociable
country with convenient gates and lanes, and
further, that the meet was not one of the
best. So she had entrusted her precious
child to Sir Yilliers, who was the
trustworthy of pioneers ; and she contented
herself by making her usual statement that
Elizabeth did not hunt, and so sent her out
hunting.

The meet was so near that they all mounted
their hunters at the door ; and Archie
observed with a smile that after all a good
many of his new possessions would be exercised
on that day. He was mounting Sir
Yilliers of course, and Lenny, and the best
and kindest of the lot was brought round
with a side-saddle for Miss Lock. And
there was Tony Fotheringham, too, who
completed this country-house party. Tony
was one of Archie's new friends, and one who
amused him always by a seriousness, which
seemed highly comical in one so young and

so rosy. Tony was two years younger than
bis host, and was as smooth and ruddy as the
advertisement of a patent food ; but he took
great care of himself and gave a great deal of
thought to his health. Even now, as he sat
on a horse which seemed distinctly too big
for him, he looked seriously at the diningroom
window, through winch Mrs. Dormer
was gazing at the group, and was inclined to
repent that he had not remained at home and
had a good long talk with that sympathetic
lady about his symptoms. However, it was
too late for repentance, and he rode away
with the rest, while Lady Jane stood on a
step, defiant of the crisp air, and watched her
girl and approved the fit of her habit. The
girl was riding with Sir Yilliers, as she
ought ; but her mother thought that she need
not have talked so eagerly to him that it was
as good as a hint to Lord Lorrilaire not to
interrupt the conversation. She said to
herself with some vexation that it was just
like Elizabeth, whose notorious fault was

want of animation, to be animated at the
wrong moment ; but then a day's hunting-was
always becoming to Elizabeth and g
her a colour and made her eyes sparkle.
after all this might be a most fortunate day.
Lady Jane watched them, till they had ridden
out of sight, with her usual desire to rearrange
them and to order them all to do her
will, but not without good hope. She did not
spare a single thought for Blithe.

Archie's spirits rose with the movements
of his horse, and they did not even fall when
he was introduced to member after member
of the Hunt. These members were cordial
and brief; he forgot to think of their
criticisms ; he began to feel the old ardour of
the chase. Nor did his pleasant spirits foil,
though the morning was spent in jogging
from covert to covert. It was pleasant to be
out on such a day, to receive friendly greetings,
to see hounds again after a long interval,
and to ride by the side of a handsome girl
who was flushed with excitement and the

eager hope of a run. And after luncheon
they did have a short run, and the country
was easy and pleasant, and both Archie and
Elizabeth went as well as anybody ; and,
when they pulled up, the girl turned on her
young host a face transfigured by new life
and light. Her reel lips were parted, her
eyes were shining, and little wandering hairs
from her glossy head were curling above her
ears. As she leaned forward to caress the
neck of the good horse, she looked at his
owner with gratitude and triumph, and
Archie smiled back upon her with the
frankest admiration. Was he not happy
that he could give to this radiant being so
glorious a gallop ? There was some use in
wealth. The radiant being lost much of her
radiance when she found that there was to be
no more hunting on that day. She rebelled
promptly, and murmured against the Master,
who sent the hounds home so early. But she
recovered her temper and became happy
again, as they rode slowly homewards. She

discussed the run with Archie, who still rode
beside her ; and when that subject was
exhausted, and soon, for after all it had been
a very short run, she went on talking with a
want of reserve which she never showed
except after excitement and quick exercise.
She had been expressing such love of the
country and its pleasures, that Archie reminded
her that she had seemed very happy
sometimes in the London ball-rooms, which
she now held cheap.

Oh yes," she said, " I liked this last-season
; I hated my first season, but I liked
this; I began to know people, and I made
some friends, and I wasn't always thinking
if I was standing right or going into rooms
properly, and I didn't feel obliged to agree
with what everybody said to me."

Archie laughed.

I shouldn't have thought that you would
ever have agreed with everybody," he said.

"But I did," she said emphatically, "and
I used to be ashamed of myself: I used to go

home and hate myself! But in my second
season I didn't care, and, if I didn't agree
with people, I said so, or I didn't answer and
let them think me dull. That is what many
people think me."

Do they ? " he asked ; " they must be dull,
I think ; you are silent sometimes."

What is the good of talking ? " she asked.

Well," he said, " it is supposed to convey
ideas, when there are any. And what about
your third season ? "

I shall like that better still," she answered.
You see, I don't care now what anybody-says
of me."

Isn't that a trifle strong ? " said Archie.

No," she said. " I shall enjoy this next
season," she continued after a minute, " as
much as possible, and after that "

She made so long a pause that he thought
that she had forgotten that she had left her
sentence unfinished. After all in these days
no person of any pretension to fashion is
expected to finish a sentence, and polite conversation

is no more than an interchange of
hints, generally about nothing. But Miss

Lock had an unequivocal end for her sentence.
After that," she said, " I shall hate it."

Archie was much amused by her decision.

Isn't it rather unnece he asked,

"to make up your mind so long before? You
see you've a whole season before you, which
you've decided to enjoy very much india
perhaps when that is over you will look
forward to the next."

No," she said with even more decision,
and looking straight between her hoi
ears. " No," she said; "I don't want to
spend my life in going about to balls."

It must be a bore," he said with prompt
conviction; " I should hate it myself. What
would you rather do ? " He felt a real
curiosity ; it was a new idea to him that
girls also could be tired of ball-going and
such amusements. " That would you like
to do ? " he asked.

"I don't know," she answered,— ki hunt."

Oh ! " he said, disappointed ; " but perhaps
you would be tired of that after your
three seasons ; and besides, you can't do it in
summer."

Do you suppose that I don't know when
people hunt ? " she asked with scorn. Then,
for they had turned into a road which had a
nice broad border of grass, she touched her
willing horse and set off at a canter. Archie
followed her, and, when she had stopped and
he was once more at her side, she said to him
with superb unreasonableness, " Of course
you think that no woman can care for anything
but dancing and hunting."

I thought it was you," he said, " who
wanted to spend your life in hunting."

Not at all," she said ; " I should like todo
something useful ! "

Useful ? " he repeated. She nodded
slightly, as if she did not care whether he
believed her or not. She had certainly surprised
him. He had held it most natural
that a boy, whose ideas were not wholly

confined to horses, should wish to be useful
in the world ; but that a girl, and a fashionable
girl, should have such a wish, was a new
fact for him. He had seen little of such girls
and thought little about them. Was this a
fact at all ? He was not suspicious, but all
the suspicion of which he was capable waft
ready to arise in him when he considered
girls. He knew his ignorance of them ; and
he wondered now if this girl who, under the
influence of excitement and the healthy day,
was really beautiful, had any real desire of
anything but amusement ; he supposed that
girls practised the art of being agreeable, and
he wondered if this girl were assuming a more
serious view that she might please him, who
had been ticketed without doubt by her
world as a prig. She looked beautiful ; he
dismissed his uneasy doubt, as he looked at
her. Moreover he asked himself why he
should trouble himself, if she did care to pose
a little for his benefit ?

Well ? " she asked, since he kept silence ;

you think that's humbug, I suppose ? I
suppose that you think that no woman can do
any good ? Delia, my sister — she married a
parson — a clergyman, I mean — I promised
not to call him a parson."

Is that what you mean ? " he asked,
laughing. " Do you mean that you would
marry a pars — clergyman, I mean ? "

No."

Why not ? Oh, I beg your pardon if I
am asking too many questions."

I don't mind," she said. " I am not good
enough ; that's why."

As good as lots of parsons," he responded
quickly — u well, clergymen, then."

Why do you talk as if everybody ought to
marry somebody ? " she asked.

Isn't it the best thing for most people ? "
he asked in his turn.

" I don't pretend to know," she said.
She gave a little laugh, which had a touch of
malice in it. " It's a bad look out," she
said, "if it is so; our men friends don't

VOL. I. G

marry — they can't afford it, or it's not the
thing. Ask Mr. Fotheringham."

Tony ! " called out Lord Lorrilaire, turning
in his saddle. Everybody called him
Tony," though there seemed to be no better
reason than that his name was " Francis
Algerian." Tony rode up to them. He was
glad to join them, for he had been jogging in
the rear with Leonard Yale, who had been the
most gloomy of companions. Leonard had
been looking at the backs of his cousin and
the young lady, and had fallen into deep
despondency, declaring to himself that all was
over, and that his days in Langleydale were
numbered. Perhaps he would never again
ride this beast, which suited him so well ; and
at this thought he jerked the mouth of the
beast which suited him so well and gave him
the spur. He was apt to hurt the nearest
creature, which felt, when he was annoyed.
From this and other signs Tony had gathered
that Lenny was out of temper ; and so he left
him without regret, and joined the pair in

front. " Is it true," asked Archie, " that men
don't marry nowadays ? "

Tony considered the question with due
gravity. It was even repeated before he
answered it. " Well," he asked then, " what
can a chap do ? What with hunting' and going'
rain' it's hard enough to live now anyway !
Most chaps are stone-broke without marrying."

What did I tell you ? " asked Miss Lock
of Archie. " Mr. Tony knows. He knows
everything."

Not quite," said Tony, regarding her in
the evening light with frank admiration.
He often declared that Elizabeth Lock was
about as handsome as they make 'em."
The nicest chaps can't afford to marry," he
said, beaming amiably upon her.

How sad ! " she answered. " What a pity
that only poor men are nice ! " So saying,
she cantered suddenly forward away from the
young men, who began to jog on in pursuit
side by side.

I say," said Tony, when he had been for

some time in deep thought, " wasn't that
rather a nasty one for you ? "
What ? " asked Archie.
That about only poor men being nice."
Archie only laughed ; and then Tony
laughed too, and cried out " Good old
Archie ! " which was one of his favourite
phrases, kindly and encouraging, and coming
in well at almost all times.

CHAPTER VI.

In the mean time, while her daughter was
riding in the happy air, Lady Jane Lock was
in full enjoyment at home of that flattering
excitement which immediately precedes complete
success, and is even more delightful.
She had written her morning's letters ; she
had eaten her substantial luncheon ; and,
when she returned from her afternoon's walk
(she was a great believer in " the constitutional
"), she was in a fine glow of virtue.
She had taken as her companion by the way
Tony Fotheringham's umbrella, which its
careful owner never allowed to touch the
ground, and with this for her walking-stick
she had stumped valiantly through the lanes.
which after the slight frost of the night had
been growing softer all day long under the

genial influences of sun and thaw. She had
left in the hall the precious umbrella with its
ferule muddy, battered, and knocked to one side
like the hat of a drunken man ; but she still
wore her plain felt hat and her braided black
jacket, as she stood with her straight back to
the cheerful fire with the air of a man, if not
of a field-marshal. However it may be with a
commander in the field, it is certain that almost
every woman, when the fortunes of the day
incline distinctly to her side, while yet enough
of doubt remains to feed the excitement of her
spirit, finds it hard to keep silence. Policy
may still prevent her from announcing her
game and prematurely singing her song of
victory ; but her choice of subjects will indicate
the direction of her thoughts, and it will be
hard for her to keep out of her voice the
sound of exultation. Lady Jane knew that
the tea, for which she had conscientiously
prepared herself by solitary exercise, would
soon be there, and that the young people
would soon be back from hunting ; and in the

mean time she could relieve herself by making
a few general remarks. It was a good time
for talk, for it was growing too dark for
reading, and the lights had not yet been
brought in. Mrs. Dormer had put down her
novel with a tiny comical yawn ; and Mrs.
Chauncey, for her part, was ready at this time
to give the most complimentary attention to
all the observations of Lady Jane Lock.

What I have always said to my girls,"
said Lady Jane, " is this. When you marry,
make up your mind to have a house that
people care to come to. It isn't the size of
the house or the place ; it's the people you
meet there ; that's what people care about."

How true ! " pronounced Clara Chauncey,
from the shadows among which she sat.

If you mean to have the right sort of
house," continued Lady Jane, " you must be
firm at first. That is what I tell my girls.
There is no sense in choking up your houses
with a lot of dull people just because they
happen to be old friends of the family, or

because your aunt Deborah married their
uncle What's-his-name. There's no sense in
it ; and, if you do it, you never will get the
right people to come to stay with you."

"How interesting!" murmured Mrs.
Chauncey. " Cut off old friends and poor
relations ! "

There is no need to be rude or disagreeable,"
said Lady Jane ; " when you do meet
these people about, you can always be most
kind. It is a very nice trait to be just the
same to people when you meet them, though
you may not have met for years. Everybody
says that."

And it is so true," said Clara.

When you do meet, be as affectionate and
nice as possible, and ask after all their
children and everything. Only be sure never
to go to see them. If they will come to see
you, never be at home. Some people let
them in once and try to be so disagreeable
that they won't come again ; that is unladylike
and unnecessary. The simple thing is

never to be at home, and never to return their
calls."

Admirable ! You have such a talent for
making tidings clear. But the husband's
friends ? Ain't they a difficulty ? "

Always be nice to your husband's friends,"
said Lady Jane promptly ; " that is the very
first thing which I tell my girls."

But men do collect such strange friends,"
said Mrs. Chauncey ; " I don't mean those
whom they can't expect their wives to know ;
they present no difficulties whatever. I mean
the friends who are respectable but impossible.
What do you do with them ? "

Don't call," said Lady Jane ; " that's all ;
it's just the same with them as with the
others."

But don't they make a fuss ? — the husbands,
I mean ; husbands are so touchy."

Yes," said Lady Jane ; " they are touchy ;
but they are very forgetful. I tell my girls
never to dispute with their husbands, always
to seem to yield. If a man tells his wife t<>

call on the What's-his-names, she can put it
off, till he forgets all about it. He'll soon
forget all about it — or pretend to. I know
what men are. They like to have the right
people in their houses just as much as we
do ; but they like us to do the unpleasant
part, and to pretend to know nothing about
it."

Oh, Lady Jane," said Mrs. Chauncey, as if
she were in a sort of respectful ecstasy,
what knowledge of the world — and of men !
They leave the dirty work to us, and look the
other way, and profit by it. That is the
whole duty of man."

A husband is so easily managed," said
Lady Jane, " if you don't argue with him.
Of course he blusters. Some day hell come
home and say that he has met his old friend
"What's-his-name in the street, and can't
think what's the matter with him ; he'll pretend
to be annoyed with him and to wonder
why he never comes near him ; but he will
know in his heart. All that you have got todo

is to smile sympathetically. Always meet
your husband with a smile ! That is what
I tell my girls."

"Lucky girls!" murmured Mrs. Chauncey.
Don't they say that to marry a Lock is a
liberal education ? I am sure that I have
heard some such saying. When I look at a
place like this, and think of all the dangers,
to which rich young men are exposed, I am
tempted to say that there is no hope of safety
for them but in a well-trained wife."

They don't know what is good for them,"
said Lady Jane, shortly.

Oh, but they do," said Clara — " at least,
some of them do — don't they ? " Her question
was so earnest and so innocent. " But then,"
she added, " they are so rare, these model
wives."

Not at all," said Lady Jane ; " there are
lots of nice well-brought-up English girls, if
the men would only look at them, instead of
going after Americans and things."

Ah ! but for a great position surely

something more is wanted — a something,
a "

"Distinction," said Lady Jane, "the air
noble — that is a matter of com

Or a matter of corsets," quickly said Mrs.
Chauncey. Here Susan Dormer, who bad
been listening to the conversation with much
placid enjoyment, began to shake with
laughter, and Lady Jane, stung by the sudden
idea that she was being trifled with, uttered
a quick sound, which can only be described
as a not unladylike snort.

"Oh, do forgive me!" cried Clara Chauncey
is unpardonable, I know ; but really and
truly it is often that, isn't it ? I have known
such common dumpy women gain quite an
air from really good stays. Nothing is more
important."

To snort like the war-horse was in Lady
Jane a sure sign of awakened suspicion, and
it is by no means likely that she would have
continued to express her views with so much
freedom, even if the words " dumpy women "

had not been for her a new note of alarm.
She could not but know that she did not
stand much over five feet high, and that,
though she was very straight, active, and
energetic, she had acquired a certain solidity.
She had never approved of Mrs. Chauncey ;
and it is likely that she already repented of
having favoured her with so many valuable
hints on the art of living. Whether she
would have contributed any further words
of wisdom will remain for ever uncertain ;
for, with a pleasant sound of young voices
and some shutting of doors, the young people
came in from hunting, and brought a quite
new atmosphere into the fire-lit rooms. Archie
reported that Sir Villiers and Tony had gone
straight to the smoking-room, but that he
and Lenny wanted tea ; and almost immediately
tea was brought, and lamps so fully
shaded that they made mere small oases of
light in the soft warm dusk.

It was a pleasant hour, with fragrant tea
and chastened light, good rest after brisk

exercise, and liberal space. Perhaps nothing
is so expressive of luxury as the combination
of space and warmth. Even in most wintry
weather it is easy for the most modest of
men to make himself snug by shutting himself
up with a good fire in a tiny room ; but a
large house brought to one warmth from
ground-floor to garret, whose inmates
without chill from lofty rooms to spacious
passages, is filled likewise with the very
atmosphere of prosperity. It was this atmosphere
which Lady Jane Lock, who had
divested herself with an effort of the tight
jacket, breathed with satisfaction ; and a -
of mingled motherhood and ownership stole
over her active spirit, as her eyes looked from
the moderate room in which they sat. and
bet r been the heavy porticoes, which had been
drawn widely open, the great, dimly lighted
space of handsome rooms beyond. The m<
fraction, more or less, of nose ; the n.
shade, more or less, of natural yellow in the
hair; and all, of which this warm spaciousness

was a sign, might be for one sister, while
another was counting coal in a chilly vicarage.
Lady Jane Lock was in a mood of unusual
softness, as she sipped her tea, when suddenly
she seemed to hear a sound of wheels. It
was very faint and far, but her alert spirit
sprang, as it were, to arms. Nobody else
seemed to hear anything ; and she gave no
sign, old campaigner as she was. She finished
her tea and asked for a second cup : only her
spirit was attentive. The front door was on
the other side of the house, and at the further
end. She could hear no more. She had just
decided that her ears had played her false,
or that some untimely tradesman's cart had
come ; she was just thinking that in the reign
of a new mistress such irregularities of untimely
tradesmen should not be, when she saw
figures advancing through the obscurity of
the farther room. The first figure was unmistakable,
the rounded shape and noiseless
amble of the butler; but who was following
1 1 i in ? Lady Jane looked with a quick eye

of inquiry at Mrs. Dormer, who had assured
her unnecessarily often that no other gu
were expected. Mrs. Dormer was looking too ;
and in a moment more the butler emerged
into the less uncertain light and annoui
in his usual level tone — " Mrs. Rutherford."

She came in beaming, wrapped in handsome
furs, bringing her own charm into the
common place, as Venus leads her Graces.
Her bright colour was the brighter for the
evening cold ; her eyes were sparkling ; and
even under the weight of fur her tall, slender,
and beautiful figure moved with the ease of
an active woodland creature.

Dora ! " cried Archie, leaping from his
chair — " hurrah ! "

They were but two words, but they administered
two separate stabs to Lady Jane
Lock. He went forward with both hands
outstretched. " How awfully nice of yon ! "
he cried. " Of course you have come to
and where's your husband ? "

"He's in London," she answered, as Archie

took her long cloak from her shoulders ;
he's tremendously hard at work ; and
besides, you know, nowadays one doesn't pay
country-house visits with one's husband."
She laughed at this pertness, but stopped
rather abruptly, aware by this time of the
contrast between her host's effusive welcome
and the general coolness. Leonard Yale
had risen when Archie rose, but had stepped
back instead of forward, and was gazing
at her with his large black eyes from the
obscurity which lay around the lighted tea-table.
She felt that he was looking at her
with a world of meaning, and with a sudden
impatience she turned from him to Mrs.
Dormer, who had not moved.

Won't you have some tea ? " asked Mrs.
Dormer.

"lam afraid I've done a dreadful thing,"
said Mrs. Rutherford, " coming unannounced
like a ghost."

Oh no," said Mrs. Dormer blandly. ' w Do
you take cream and sugar ? "

VOL. I. II

I was so bored in London, and I thought
but you can pack me off tomorrow, if I
am in the way."

Nonsense ! " cried out Archie ; " it's the
most delightful thing in the world, and a
thousand times better than if we had known
about it beforehand. Aunt Susan, you'll see
to Dora's room, and her maid and her luggage
and things, and — and — oh yes, you know
Lady Jane Lock, don't you, Dora ; "

Elizabeth," said Lady Jane, who seemed
not to have heard the reference to herself,
go and lie down before dinner."

But I am not tired," said her daughter.

Nonsense ! " said Lady Jane sharply ; "you
never know when you are tired."

"How d'ye do, Lady Jane?" said Mrs.
Rutherford.

Oh ! How d'ye do? Such a surprise! I
do envy people who have the courage to do
these odd amusing things. Come, Elizabeth."

"I've plenty of courage," said Dora. She
held out her hand with a smile to Miss Lock,

who was obediently following her mother
from the room ; and the girl put her hand in
hers for a moment. In that moment Dora
perceived that Elizabeth's hand was larger
than her own, and came to a decision also
about her air, her figure, and the cut of her
habit. She was extremely quick. As she
let her hand fall, she came to a further
decision on less obvious matters. " Sulky
girl !" she said to herself; "but how handsome
— how dangerously handsome ! "

I think that I am really the last," said
Mrs. Chauncey, advancing from the shadows
and looking straight at Archie with a set
smile.

Oh yes ; Dora," he said, " you know
Mrs. Chauncey ? "

It was now Mrs. Rutherford's tarn to freeze
a little. " Oh ! How d'ye do ? " she said, extending
her slender fingers.

Mrs. Chauncey pressed the slender fingers
slightly, and smiled the more sweetly as she
was conscious of a tendency to wring them

COMEDY OF A COUNTRY HOUSE.

with all her nervous force. She knew then
beyond all possibility of doubt that she hated
Dora Rutherford ; she would like to wring
her neck too, or at least her heart.

CHAPTER VII.

The news of Archie's danger had come to
Dora Rutherford at a happy moment, for she
was looking about eagerly, almost anxiously,
for something to do. She had been spending
the autumn months in the home of her childhood,
the quiet comfortable rectory, which
was so near to the home of Archie's mother,
Mrs. Rayner. There she had been living a
most domestic life with her parents and her
husband. Her husband had been quite happy,
working daily and steadily at that great
report which was to enlighten the world, or
at least a part of it ; but she, for her part,
had found a strange want of occupation. She
could not even take up again the little duties
of her girlhood. Quick, clever, and energetic,
she had taken each year, as she grew up at

home, more and more of the little daily duties
of the house, garden, and village, from the
hands of her mother ; but when Bhe married,
her mother had been obliged to take them
back again, and this good lady was wise
enough to know that she would gain nothing
by relinquishing them for a few months, but
the trouble of again acquiring the useful
habits, of which she was now mistress. So
Dora had nothing to do but to visit Mrs.
Eayner, and talk of Archie and his wonderful
change of fortune ; or to ride with her husband,
when he took his afternoon's exercise ;
or to drive her mother in the pony can-her
father, her mother, and her husband
more than all, were busy ; but she was idle.
She did not like to be idle. She did not like
to feel herself useless. Before the end of the
visit, during which she had seemed to others
a happy presence indeed, bringing sunshine
every day into the shady corners of that
quiet world, she had accumulated so much
spare energy, that she could scarcely help

crying out when she woke in the morning
at the thought of the long hours before her,
in which she would have nothing to do.

Nevertheless Dora did not allow her
parents to suspect that she grew weary of
this idle life, nor did she shorten by a single
day the long visit which she had promised to
them. Unluckily, when the change came, it
was no change for the better. When she
went up to London with her husband, she
found their house and their establishment in
excellent condition, and nothing for her to do
but to order the daily dinner. Of London in
November she had had no experience ; and
now she did not like it. Her friends were
all out of town ; and her husband was more
busy than he had been in the country. The
work which he had undertaken, first for his
own enlightenment, and secondly for the
instruction of others, was no less than the
examination of all the kinds of land-tenure
which are to be found on this small earth,
and the setting forth of the merits and del

of each. Luckily there is not very much
earth to be held in any way; and railways
and telegraphs have made our little world so
small, that any little holiday-taker can run
round it and be back before he is missed.
And yet there is enough solid surface to show
various forms of ownership ; and to know all
these forms, and all the effects of each, is no
small work for a man who has a passion for
thoroughness and a deep respect for truth.

Such a man was Tom Rutherford. He
was up to his knees in reports official and
unofficial, in books written in many languages,
in a growing flood of letters from all parts of
the world ; and he set his teeth and worked
through the mass of matter, carefully and
steadily dividing the relevant from the irrelevant,
and bringing the former to shape and
clearness with a patience and sturdy determination
which was all his own. In this work
of her husband, who shut himself up alone
morning after morning, Dora Rutherford had
no share. When she had ordered dinner,

she felt that she had nothing to do for the
rest of the day. She was restless and
uneasy ; and so it happened that when she
received Leonard Yale's letter and learned
that Archie, the only friend of her childhood,
the innocent unworldly being whom she had
taken under her protection throughout the
last London season, was in imminent danger
of matrimony, she awoke with delight as
from a weary dream. Here was something
for her to do ; she could be of some use after
all ; she heard the sound of trumpets and her
eyes sparkled with desire of battle. She ran
to try on her armour, and already she saw
with her mind's eye the redoubtable Lady
Jane Lock roll helpless in the dust. Her
husband noted the new light in her eyes, and
he did not refuse to let her go. He said that
he could not leave his work at present, but
would try to join her later ; and if he was
hurt by her clear joy at going, he only
showed it by renewing the attack on his
work with a fresh pugnacity.

Dora Rutherford, when she came into the
breakfast-room on the morning after her
startling appearance at Langley Castle, weaken
as frosty air. She was rather late, for
she had run out of door, glancing about the
immediate neighbourhood of the house withall
the feelings of a strategist casting
eager eye over a new country. She came in
fresh and smiling, kissed Mrs. Dormer, as if
she had never a doubt of her welcome, and
seated herself with her face to all the
windows. Thus she confronted the enemy.
for Lady Jane Lock always sat with her back
to the light at breakfast time. Mrs. Chauncey
too, whom Dora preferred to regard as a foe,
had this same habit, which indeed is not
uncommon in ladies who are undergoing the
ordeal of a country-house visit.

All the men were present at breakfast
except Leonard Yale, who after a day's limiting
was apt to be even later than usual. Of
his absence Dora was instantly aware, for she
had decided that her first object must be to

gain from liirn a clear statement of the present
state of affairs. Until she could secure a
private conversation with Mr. Yale, she
could do nothing but keep a friendly eye on
her dear Archie and be ready to make a
third if necessary. Even this light task was
denied her, for, when she asked Archie, as
they were breakfasting, what he was going
to do, he raised his eyebrows with a look
both humorous and pathetic and said, " My
agent has come for me."

Poor little boy ! " she said ; " but you must
go like a good boy and not cry."

You don't know how I am bullied," he
said ; " here's Uncle Yilliers with a list of
people whom I must see, and the agent with
a list of other sort of people, besides horses
and farmhouses and pigs "

Aud guests," said Dora ; " don't leave
us out — especially self-invited guests like
me.

"Don't call yourself names," he said ; "you
know that you have a standing invitation

from me, so long as one stone of this ancestral
dungeon stands upon another and Aunt Susan
provides a crust for dinner."

"There, Mrs. Rutherford," said Lady Jane,
"you can't ask for anything more than that."

There was a slight accent on the word
you ; " but Dora answered smiling —

"I didn't ask for that; but I accept it all,
I'll never leave you, Archie."

And Mr. Rutherford ? " asked Lady Jane,
with a snort, which she had intended to be a
laugh.

He is as fond of Archie as I am," -
Dora; "he will never leave him either. Let
us all swear never to leave him ! He has
such big houses and so many of them ; it
would be a kindness to him ; and we are such
a pleasant party. We will all run after him
wherever he goes. Let us all swear it ! You
begin, Lady Jane."

"Thank you," said Lady Jane, rising from
the table ; " but / never run after people."

I do," said Dora ; " may I run after ;

and the agent this morning, Archie ? I will
promise to be good, and not to speak unless
I am spoken to."

No," answered Archie. " You'd be too
distracting. You will see what is left of meat
luncheon."

This was useful information for Mrs.
Rutherford, and she made a mental note of it,
as she finished her coffee. It made her wish
the more for the coming of Leonard Yale,
for here was a nice open morning, during
which Archie would be safe with his agent,
and which she could devote to the necessary
interview with the ally, who had called her
to his aid and who alone could tell her how
imminent was the young lord's danger, and
what was the present state of the campaign.
She was burning to take command.

When she had seen Archie walk away
with the agent and had loitered for sometime,
and had observed that Lady Jane,
whose diplomacy lacked delicacy, was keeping
a most obvious eye upon her, Dora went

upstairs to her room and dressed herself fora
walk. Then she went downstairs again
very quietly and slipped out of the house,
seen by nobody but Mrs. Chauncey, who was
of a more delicate order of diplomatists than
Lady Jane Lock.

Dora went straight to the kitchen-garden,
which she had discovered in her hasty tour
before breakfast. She was sure that, when
Leonard Yale had once emerged from his
own rooms, he would look for her ; and she
decided that he should find her in the place
most fit for confidential talk ; and so she
chose her ground in the smaller kitchen-garden,
where she was enclosed by high
walls and could see from any part both of the
entrances. Walking up and down beside
the most sunny of the walls she became more
and more impatient ; but she had not long to
wait. She saw one of the green doors pushed
open; and Mr. Tale came in. She noted his
dejected air, before he caught sight of her,
and the quick change which came over him

when he saw her. He came up the straight
path between the borders of old-fashioned
flowers with unusual briskness.

At last," he said, " I've found you."

I've been waiting for you for the last
hour," she said.

Waiting for me ? " he asked, as if it were
impossible that she should wait for such an
one as he. There was a nice blending of
humility and reverence and tenderness in his
tone.

Of course I was waiting for you," she
answered impatiently. " How can I move
until I know how things are now ? Is there
immediate danger ? "

Immediate danger?" he repeated vaguely.

To Archie ? " she said.

He had forgotten all about Archie. " Oh
yes," he said, u of course — what a fool I am !
I am afraid things are going about as badly
as usual."

Don't talk like that," she said ; " you
promised me in London that you would give

up talking like a victim of Fate. It is so
tiresome."

I'll try," he said humbly.

Come on," she said, beginning to walk up
the path ; " tell me why you think things are
going badly for Archie."

He told her of trifling events which he
had noticed since Lord Lorrilaire had joined
his party, and especially of yesterday's
hunting.

He was with her all day long," he said.

She nodded gravely.

We must stop that sort of day," she
said ; " the girl looks well in a habit. Does
she look well on a horse ? "

Not bad," he answered ; " she is not like
you."

This compliment touched Dora Rutherford
where her guard was weak; she was proud
of her horsemanship ; she could not help
smiling nor keep her eyes from shining.

You must keep up your courage," she
said : " I see nothing to be afraid of. Archie

cannot be thinking of a serious step ; he is
so natural, so entirely unembarrassed."

But isn't that his danger ? " he asked ;
he might be on the very edge and never
know it. Another day like yesterday, and
Lady J. would be capable of asking him his
intentions."

The next move is mine," said Dora with
glad confidence.

Lenny looked at her with admiration. He
thought again that there was nobody like
her — no woman so brilliant and so charming ;
his desire to interest her in himself was
stronger than ever before.

I wish I could hope," he said with a
sigh ; " and I do hope when you tell me to.
You remember what you promised me in
London ? You said you would be my
friend."

Yes," she said ; " I promised to be your
friend if you would give up bemoaning your
fate."

I have had hard luck," he said sadly ;

VOL. i. i

you won't mind my saying that. I know it
has been a great deal my own fault ; I have
thrown away my chances. I have tried to
be different since you advised me and
promised to be my friend."

And I will be your friend," she said ; " 1
am here to help you as well as Archie."

Thank you," he said eagerly — " thank
you." Then he added sadly, ' ; Nobody ever
needed your help so much. This is my last
chance and I owed it to you. It was you who
told Archie of my existence, and that I —
what may I say ? — had not been treated welL
I owe everything to you."

Oh no," she said, but she liked the sound
of the words. Of all the men who had paid
her compliments during her short experience
of the London Society which had received
her so cordially as the most charming bride
of the day, this man alone had appealed to
her pity, and shown faith in her ability and
helpfulness. The frank compliments to her
looks, which our somewhat uncouth Society

permits, she had put aside half-pleased and
half-embarrassed, and had promptly forgotten ;
but the respect for her opinion and the wish
for her advice, which had been constantly
and delicately shown by this handsome ill-starred
youth, had been compliments which
she did not put aside nor forget. There are
men, and not stupid men, whose cleverness is
never roused to anything like its highest
activity but by the wish to please the other
sex. A man of this sort, who in the other
relations of life has shown but small ability,
if he once desire to arouse the interest of it
woman, will exercise an amazing instinct in
his choice of flattery and a tact in its use,
which are denied to women themselves, or to
all but the most rarely gifted. Such a man
was Leonard Yale. He bent his head as he
walked beside her, and assured her with an
air which was almost one of veneration, and
with the sound of truth in his voice, that but
for her he would have been an outcast.

And if I lose this chance," he said, " I

shall have to go now. It isn't the luxuries
and things I care about ; I can do without
them ; I am not quite such a wretched
creature that I can't do without that sort of
thing. But this is my last chance of saving
myself — of being saved by you, if you will
save me."

Don't talk of saving," she said quickly ;
you will stay here ; I feel sure of it ; and
you will find better things to do than playing
and betting, and running into debt."

"I will try," he said; " but it's a bad
world."

No, no, no," she cried ; " it's a good
world, and most amusing, and I don't believe
that there is half so much harm in it as
people say."

You always say that," he said, smiling
sadly ; " and it is so right that you should
believe that. It would be a vile world that
wasn't good to you ; you are not like other
women,"

Yes, I am," she said ; " but we all like to

think we are different, and it is a mercy to
think that one can be of some use to somebody."


You needn't say that," he said ; " everybody
knows that your husband is one of the
fortunate ones, bound to rise, to make a mark
in the world, to do everything which a man
ought "

Here he stopped short, but his eloquent
silence pointed the contrast.

M What has that got to do with it ? " she
asked.

He can interest you," he said ; " lay his
plans before you, consult with you, ask your
advice."

"And do you suppose," she asked, "that
Tom talks to me of his plans and would listen
to my advice ? He might listen to me if I were
a peasant proprietor or a professor of political
economy. As it is " She stopped short.

I am awfully sorry," lie said after a minute;
I've said the wrong thing ; I had no idea
that "

That what ? " she asked, standing still
and looking at him. He only answered her
with his sympathetic eyes. " I am not complaining
of my husband," she said shortly.

It was at this moment, when they v.
standing together in front of the northern
wall of the garden, that Mrs. Chauncey pushed
open one of the doors for the admission of
herself and Lady Jane Lock. Neither Dora
Rutherford nor Leonard Yale saw her, and
she drew back and shut the door again,
when Lady Jane had had time for one good
look.

Let us go back to the house by another
way," suggested Clara Chauncey.

What does it mean ? " asked Lady Jane
authoritatively.

Oh, surely," began Clara, and stopped
with a little laugh. " Xo," she began again,
it really is not ill-natured. Surely you
must have noticed it in London : I go out
so little myself, but I thought that it was
common talk. Surely you know ? "

I know that he is a most dangerous and
scandalous young man' said Lady Jane.

And penniless," said Mrs. Chauncey.

What was that shocking story about
him ? " asked Lady Jane.

Oh, you mean the year before last," said
Clara ; " poor Mr. Yale ! Nobody remembers
a scandal which is more than a year old."

I know that it was dreadfully disgraceful."

Oh yes ! " said Clara ; " but he was so
young ; they said he didn't know ! "

Old enough to know better," said Lady
Jane, as she stumped sturdily towards the
house : " it was cards, or a horse, or something.
I never can remember those stupid
male scandals."

Lady Jane Lock was a moralist. She disapproved
of married women's flirtations,
however harmless ; but she could not help
thinking that, if Mrs. Rutherford must have
an attentive cavalier, it was well that it
should not be young Lord Lorrilaire. She
had just completed an arrangement of Lord

COMEDY OF A COUNTRY HOUSE.

Lorrilaire's afternoon, which gave her the
liveliest satisfaction, and the only thing which
she had feared had been the interference of
Dora Rutherford.

"It must be time for luncheon," she said,
and perceived with satisfaction that she had
an appetite.

CHAPTER VIII.

Lady Jane was patiently absorbing a liberal
portion of roly-poly pudding, a dish of which
she was particularly fond, when Dora Rutherford
came in, still equipped with hat and
jacket, and very late for luncheon. " So
sorry to be late," she said to Mrs. Dormer ;
and who's the pony cart for ? "

Is there a pony cart ? " asked Mrs.
Dormer absently.

Yes, and there it goes," said Dora, whose
quick ears caught the sound of wheels.

Lady Jane looked up from her roly-poly,
and Susan Dormer began to laugh a little in
her silent comfortable manner. " Jane wanted
Elizabeth to see the ruined Abbey," she said,
"and poor dear Archie "

Archie ! The Abbey ! I must see it ! "
cried Dora.

In a moment she was out of the room,
flying down the passage and out of the front
door. Down the Avenue she sped like a deer
or the lightest of Diana's nymphs. Lady
Jane gripped her spoon and fork and breathed
hard. How could she go on calmly with that
pudding in the presence of such extraordinary
conduct ? She looked with indignation at
her friend Susan, who could only shake her
head and laugh.

Good old Mrs. Rutherford," murmured
Tony Fotheringham at the window; "what
a constitution she must have ! "

Ten minutes later Lord Lorrilaire enter
his dining-room laughing, and blushing a
little ; but he met the inquiring stare of the
speechless Lady Jane without other sign of
shame. " It's all right," he said ; " there
hasn't been an accident ; it's Dora."

What's Dora ? " asked Lady Jane hotly.

"What isn't Dora'' he said, laughing;
there never was any one like her."

Lady Jane bit her tongue, that she might
not say that she devoutly hoped not.

We pulled up at the first gate," said
Archie, " and I jumped out to open it, and I
happened to look back, and there was Dora
coming like a racer. She does run beautifully."


Nice feminine accomplishment ! " said
Lady Jane sharply.

Yes," said Archie ; " isn't it pretty to
see a girl run really well ? "

Where's Elizabeth ? " asked Lady Jane.

Oh, they've gone on together."

Gone on together ! "

Yes," said Archie ; " that was what Dora
wanted. As soon as she could speak plain,
she said that she was dying to see the old
Abbey ; and so she turned me out and took
the reins."

And you let her ? " cried Lady Jane, who
found it hard to hide the contempt which she
felt for this rich young man.

She is perfectly safe," said Archie ; " I

assure you you needn't be a bit afraid ; she
drives a great deal better than I do."

"But she hasn't had any luncheon," said
Mrs. Dormer.

She said she didn't want any."

She'll never find the way," said Sir
Villiers.

"I didn't think of that," said Archie; "but
at least she is as likely to find it as I was ;
you know I'm a stranger in these parts."

His invincible good-humour annoyed Lady
Jane Lock, who could not perceive in him
any signs of disappointment. She had a
speech on the tip of her tongue, which she
had tried hard to restrain, but now she could
hold it no longer.

It is not as a whip that I distrust "Mrs.
Rutherford," she said with decision.

Archie turned quickly and looked at her.

That's all very well as a joke," he said,
with a slight laugh ; " but of course everybody
knows that there's nobody who can be
trusted as Dora can. I give you my word

you may be perfectly easy about Miss
Lock."

Thank you ! I am not at all uneasy about
my daughter," said Lady Jane as she walked
stiffly out of the room. She was exceedingly
annoyed ; she had not even had the heart to
finish that good pudding. She took herself
roundly to task for having lost her temper
and offended her host ; she, who prided herself
on being a good mother, had failed to do
her duty as a mother. She went out for one
of her solitary walks and came back full of
good resolutions. She was able to receive
her daughter with a smile, and to thank Mrs.
Rutherford in Archie's presence for having
taken such good care of her. " I was rather
nervous," she admitted with her straightforward
air, " till Lord Lorrilaire assured me
that you were a safe whip."

I can drive anything," said Dora cheerfully
; " I enjoyed it enormously."

And the Abbey ? " asked Mrs. Chauncey,
looking up innocently from her low chair by

the tea-table ; " is it really such a splendid
rum r

The Abbey ?" repeated Dora vaguely.

Yes — the Abbey which you were dying
to see."

"Oh yes," said Dora, "the Abbey — we
didn't find the Abbey."

What a disappointment ! " said Clara,
with her round eyes gravely sympathetic.

Terrible ! " said Dora ; "do give me some
tea, Mrs. Dormer ! It's awfully rude, but I
am so hungry; I had no luncheon, you
know.

In that afternoon's skirmish the victory
had been with Dora Rutherford ; and yel
was not wholly happy. She had had a walk
and a run and a drive, and she had miner
luncheon ; and so it happened that even
she was a little tired, and when she had
finished her tea, she was glad to go to her
room and rest a little before dinner. The
curtains had been drawn across the windows.
and the room, with its big bed and handsome

old-fashioned furniture, was lighted only, but
most agreeably lighted, by the cheerful wood-fire
on the hearth. Wrapped in her dressing-gown
and reclining in an arm-chair, Dora
looked lazily into the fire and was glad for
once to rest. She could venture to repose for
an hour after her first success ; she had seen
the girl go to her room before she had
yielded to her own feeling of weariness.
Resting now in that pleasant place and at
that pleasant hour she ought to have been
wholly happy ; but she was not. She could
not help a feeling of uneasiness about this
girl, whom she was bound to defeat. During
their drive she had tried to study her, but
she had been baffled by her apparent stolidity.
Elizabeth had shown no sign of disappointment,
when her attendant cavalier had been
banished from the pony-cart; and for the
rest of the afternoon she had shown no
emotion of any kind. To Dora's questions
about indifferent matters she had answered
briefly and with the air of giving the expected

-^

answers to matter-of-course questions. It
appeared that she liked London, that she
liked the country, that she liked riding, that
she should like to go abroad but liked to
at home, that she liked dogs but did not
dislike cats, and that she did not know if Belied
parrots or not ; she did not hesitate to
say where she got her dresses and her
jackets. Dora felt no wiser at the end of
their drive, and said to herself with conviction
that this was a handsome, heavy,
stupid girl ; but yet a doubt remained. She
had an uneasy feeling that Elizabeth might
be more deep than stupid, and that she did
not understand her. Now Dora Rutherford
thought that she could read girls at a glance,
and she was impatient under the suspicion
that this girl baffled her legitimate curiosity.
She would have liked to be perfectly certain
that she knew all about Miss Lock and knew
that she was in all ways unworthy of her
dear Archie ; for then she would have fought
her campaign with a heart as light as her

courage was undoubted. However, fight she
must, and conquer she would.

Her heart was not light, as she sat before
that cheerful fire, or at least not so light as
usual. She felt lonely ; she was accustomed
to be popular, and she did not like the
thought that not a woman in the house was
glad of her presence. She took it as a matter
of course that all the men were glad, and
especially Archie, the friend of her childhood.
And Leonard Yale too was more glad than
the others ; she was important to him ; he
needed her help ; he respected her opinions*.
His admiration and respect soothed her as
she sat thinking.

And yet she felt lonely. She missed her
husband. That was a fact, which she
recognized with some surprise. She made a
little face at the fire, prompting herself to be
aggrieved at her husband's absence, as if he
had left her and not she him. She even said
to herself that lie might have come too, if
he had wished ; and that the land of this

VOL. I. K.

habitable globe would not have run away
while his report thereon was suspended for a
day or two. Yet she could not feel comfortably
aggrieved. She could not help thinking
of her husband with tenderness, with melancholy.
She put down this uncommon mood
to going without luncheon ; but she was not
content with this explanation. She missed
her husband. This was a fact ; and, as she
considered this fact again, she began to feel
pleasure in it. She did not care to go beyond
it. She sat curled up in the big chair and
allowed herself to dwell upon the fact that
she missed her husband. It was another
proof, where none was necessary, how deeply
she loved her husband. She had married
him because she loved him. Whenever she
had felt disappointment in her life as a
married woman, she had always gone back to
her love of her husband and to his love of
her. These twin facts arc the important facts
of married life; and Dora Rutherford was

wise enough to know this. Looking into the

•

wood-fire and thinking of Tom, she warmed
her heart once again with the assurance that
they loved each other ; she missed her
husband very much indeed and was glad of
it, though it made her melancholy.

And yet, when Dora told herself so truly
that, where husband and wife love each other
and each is sure of the other's love, all
disappointments in their life are in comparison
as nothing, she began straightway to
slip, as she was apt to do, into unprofitable
consideration of a certain disappointment.
Dora had married for love ; but she had not
married, as no loving fool, however foolish
and however deep in love, has ever married
in this world, with an empty head. She had
promised to marry Tom Rutherford because
she loved him ; but it was impossible for this
clever, well-taught, and energetic girl to have
but one thought. As a fact, she had had
many thoughts, when she promised to marry
Tom. She had known well that she was
marrying a man of uncommon ability, a

strong man whom his elders, if wise, respected,
and whom the best of the younger
men looked to as a likely leader. He was
some fifteen years older than she, and had
given proofs of his ability, which all might
read. She knew that he had given his
time to study of the state of the world, and
of the theory and practice of politics ; that he
had made his studies in no amateur's mood,
but with steady industry and dogged perseverance
; that he had shown great powers of
accumulating and using knowledge. He had
travelled round the world, too, and had used
his eyes for looking on life as well as on
hooks. The occasional papers, which he had
published, had shown mastery of the subjects
on which he wrote, clearness of thought and
of expression ; and they had never failed to
attract attention. He had spoken now and
then on the political questions of the day :
and he had lectured in towns in the North
and had firmly held the attention of North-country
miners and artisans. He had made

no haste to go into Parliament ; but it was
generally understood that he could go in at
his own time. Party leaders were well aware
of his existence, and even careful to show
him no discourtesy. In any crisis of more
than common interest many sensible people
looked for the expression of his opinion. It
was known that at the next general election
many constituencies would be candidates for
his favour, and that some at least would be
willing to pay his election expenses. In
short Tom Rutherford, when he was thirty-five
years old, was a rising man, and moreover
conspicuous among rising men on
account of an unusual accuracy of information
and the possession of certain settled opinions,
which were the result of much study and
thought, and which would not be changed, as
those who knew him knew well, for the sake
of any office or the gain of any votes. He
was not only a rising man; he was a strongman
too.

Looking into the fire, and thinking of her

husband and of the place which he was
winning in the world, Dora felt the usual
pride; but it was accompanied, as usual, by
regret. Alone in her room, she blushed and

O 7

bit her lip for shame when she remembered
her girlish confidence and her girlish dreams.
She remembered her love and admiration for
her husband, her certainty of his future
greatness, and her certainty that she, the girl
who felt old because she was out of her teens,
would be his chief helper. Once more >h<j
thought how absurd that girl had been with
her belief in herself; and how like a spoiled
child she must have looked in her husband's
eyes. She admitted to herself that she had
been spoiled at home. Her mother was so
fond of yielding, and her father so full of
admiration of his daughter's cleverness ; it
was not her own fault if she had been a
spoiled child. And yet, if they had thought
too well of her, thai was no reason why her
husband should hold her too cheap. She
said to herself again that her husband did

undervalue her. She knew that she was
clever ; and she knew that she was well-taught.
To doubt this latter fact was to
doubt her father, who had been her chief
teacher. Did not everybody know that her
father had been one of the cleverest men of
his day at Oxford, a brilliant scholar and a
sound historian too ? Did not she know
that, when for love and marriage he had
settled down into a country rectory and a life
of little cares, he had found in time one of
the greatest pleasures of his quiet life in
teaching his only child to use her mind ?
She thought of her father with a peculiar
tenderness, and remembered without a smile
how often he had set forth for her benefit the
true theory of education. " I would teach
you to use your mind," he would say, " as an
athlete is taught to use his muscles ; I do not
wish to cram you like a pullet." She recalled
this and other wise sayings of her parent,
and declared to herself again that filial piety
forbade her to regard herself as an ignorant

and ill-taught woman. And yet had she not
over-valued herself and her ability, and overvalued
herself to a ridiculous degree ? Back
came the blush to her cheeks as she remembered
again that, mere child as she i
had held herself fit to help her husband in
his life's work. She blushed as she remembered
her folly, that sublime self-confidence
which her husband had not even suspected.
She had made pompous plans, and had
imagined herself a sort of glorified secretary-and
he had never held her higher than a
petted child. It was unfair ; she was rightly
aggrieved. So she sat vexing herself again
with this, which was the disappointment of
her married life. Alone in the firelight and
in melancholy mood she felt much pity for
the young girl, who so few years ago had
gone proudly to be married in the familiar
church at home. She recalled her folly and
her pride, and then the keenness of the disappointment
when she had felt it first. She
was full of self-pity. The poor young bride

waking to the fact that she was to be only
loved like any other wife, seemed to her
infinitely pathetic. And now she told herself
that she had never advanced beyond this.
Unfailing love and kindness she had found.
She knew that her husband was a quick-tempered
man — she had seen him angry with
other people; but she had never found him
even impatient with her, except when in
their early days she had come into his study
during his hours of work. Her offers of help
he had treated as a joke, not even to be
refused in words ; he had kissed her and
laughed. She had realized so soon (she was
clever enough for that) what he expected
from her. She was to have as many pretty
things as he could afford to give her ; and
she was to have plenty of good society,
which he, who was connected with many
potent families, could give her without undue
trouble. She had found soon that it was no
use to beg him not to bore himself with so
many dinners and dances, for he had made

up his mind that these things were due to
her ; and, when he had made up his mind, he
went through amusements with the same
dogged perseverance which he brought to his
graver labours. And she had enjoyed herself,
having a fine capacity for enjoyment,
making friends of men and women, thinking
the best of everybody. She did not deny
that she had had great fun ; but she w
least as sure that she had not got over, and
never would get over, her great disappointment.
She was sorry for herself and half-angry
with her husband; she knew that she
was no fool ; and it was her husband's fault
that she appeared to the world to be no more
than a silly young married woman. For
silly young married women she had a supreme
contempt. Then Dora thought that it was
well that everybody did not think her a fool.
Her rapid mind was in search for comfort for
her wounded vanity. Other people, even
men, cared to listen to her opinions, and i
to ask her advice. And so her mind came

round a train to Leonard Yale. She sat
musing for a while, and then suddenly
jumped up, looked at the clock on the mantelpiece,
dashed off a note to her husband merely
to say that she missed him, rang for her
maid, and dressed with great speed. When
she entered the dining-room, she looked even
more radiant than usual, with a deeper flush
on her cheek and her eyes dancing. All the
evening she was in the highest spirits.

CHAPTER IX.

Do you know," said Dora to Archie on
the next morning, " that I quite like your
friend Mrs. Chauncey ? "

Eh ? What ? " said Archie absently. He
was standing with one foot on the fender
opening the morning's letters, pocketing some
with a rueful look, and throwing others into
the fire with manifest relief. Dora was
standing near. These two were alone in
the dining-room before breakfast. It was
natural enough that they should be the first
to come downstairs in the morning, to begin
as it were the life of the day. They both
had a happy morning look.

I was saying," said Dora emphatically.
that I quite like your friend Mrs. Chain

My friend ? " asked Archie, throwing the

last letters into the fire, and pressing them
down with the poker. "I didn't know she
existed till I found her here. Who is she ? "

Dora laughed. " It's too funny of you," she
said, " to know nothing of your own guests.
Have you no curiosity ? "

Lots," he answered ; " but somehow I
haven't thought of Mrs. Chauncey. Who is
she?"

Wife of Mr. Chauncey," said Dora drily.

She's not a widow, then ? I took her
for a little quiet sort of widow."

Quiet ! " repeated Dora, with a slight
peculiar emphasis.

She seems to me to make eyes, rather,"
remarked Archie sagely. " Doesn't she ? "

No ; there you wrong her," said Dora ;
she has the sort of eyes that make themselves
men can't discriminate in these things. Of
course she knows that her eyes are effective."

"Well? What's the matter with her,
anyway ?" asked Archie.

Nothing that I know of," said Dora ;

but of course one can't have been about in
London for the last two years, as I have,
without hearing stories."

Oh, never listen to stories," said Archie
bluntly.

That's what I mean," said Dora. " I like
her much better than I thought I should. I
always do find people, when I come to know
them, a great deal better than people -

You are quite right there," said Archie
cordially. " People never are half so bad as
they are said to be. As for Mrs. Chauncey,
she is a little mouse kind of woman ; there's
no harm in her."

Dora pursed her lips ; she felt that it was
absurd of Archie to think that he knew.
Anyway," she said, " I choose to like her.
She came and talked to me last night after
dinner, before you men came in ; she quite
touched me. She didn't complain ; but I
am quite sure that her husband is a horrid
drinking, gambling sort of man."

Oh, you haven't come to know Chauncey."

said Archie, smiling ; " when you do come to
know Chauncey, perhaps you will find him
too a great deal better than people say. You
always do, you know."

Never," said Dora ; " I detest Chauncey,
and I hope I shall never set eyes on him."

That's not fair," said Archie.

I don't care, and I wish you would not
argue before breakfast," said Dora.

Are you hungry ? " asked Archie ; " let's
ring and have up breakfast. I suppose I
may r

She laughed for answer, and he rang the
bell.

While she was being discussed in the
dining-room, Mrs. Chauncey in the privacy
of her own apartment was putting careful
finishing touches to her appearance. That
clear pallor, which she accepted from Nature,
required nevertheless some skilful management;
and about the expressive eyes there
was delicate work to be done, that they might
be the more expressive. She had, too, a

reputation for wearing clothes well, and
this reputation makes necessary many careful
looks and artful touches. All had not gone
quite well that morning, and Clara's docile
middle-aged maid was pink about the eyes, and
sniffed occasionally, as if oppressed by unshed
tears. Clara was thinking of Dora. She
was well aware that she had advanced in her
favour on the previous evening. She congratulated
herself on this gain. She was able
even to feel a little virtuous for having been
so nice to a woman, whom she cordially
disliked ; and yet at bottom she knew well
that she only cared to win Mrs. Rutherford's
confidence that she might have a better chance
of hurting her. She was surprised by the
liveliness of her own aversion. Dora's
happiness affronted her. Her careless glance
seemed to tell her that she was a faded woman,
and unimportant. She longed to make this
brilliant young creature in all her insolence
of freshness and youth feel that she too was
somebody. Besides, she had another cause of

dislike, of which Dora was entirely ignorant,
She had met Tom Rutherford some years
before his marriage, and had practised on him
her artless fascinations ; and of these fascinations
Mr. Rutherford had remained unconscious
to this day, as unconscious as his wife.
And now these Rutherfordss exasperated her,
and stung her where she was most tender.
The man was a rising man, whose career was
full of interest ; and she thought of her
husband drifting about on the Mediterranean,
and in doubtful company. The woman had
been welcomed with delight into that particular
circle of society to which Clara in
more sanguine days had determined to belong.
Political and social success seemed to her
jealous eyes to be made flesh in these
Rutherfordss. She had formed no plan for
injuring Dora. She was of that modern
school of diplomatists, who achieve their
ends by refusing to look beyond the next step.
For Clara the next step was to win Dora's
confidence ; on this she concentrated all her

VOL. I. L

powers. She refused to consider what the
next step would be ; she did not even confess
to herself that it would be necessarily
injurious to Dora ; she was able, as lias been
said, to feel that it did her some credit to be
agreeable to a woman, whom she disliked bo
bitterly. And yet she knew in her heart
that her purpose was to do Dora Rutherford
as bad a turn as might be.

In the comedy, which was being played in
the house, Mrs. Chauncey was determined to
take no part; for consideration had only
strengthened her first impression, and she saw
clearly that it would be folly in her to run
the risk of being condemned by Mrs. Dormer
and Lady Jane Lock, that she might help to
save one young man from matrimony and
another from losing his good quarters.
Leonard Yale, though he was an old friend,
must take care of himself; she would take no
part in that contest. But now she had a
little game of her own to play ; she would
on step by step ; her life had become suddenly

more interesting. She smiled at herself in
the glass, a timid sad sweet smile, and noted
its effect ; and then with the smile on her
lips, she went lightly down the stairs, leaving
her maid behind her, now sniffling with
greater freedom, and dropping by mischance
a large tear on the gown, which had failed to
give satisfaction.

Dora Rutherford looked up from her
breakfast as each man entered the room, and
noticed certain trifles at a glance which
would have escaped a duller eye. She
decided from their clothes that no form of
sport was purposed on that day ; and she
knew the full importance of this fact. She
was well aware that in a country-house party,
where no definite occupation is provided, the
danger of matrimony is at least doubled.
There had been a day's hunting, but it had
been an easy sociable day, and the young
lady had joined in the chase ; and now it
seemed as if day after day there was to be
nothing to do. If it be true that Hymen

finds some mischief still for idle hearts to do,
here was too fair a field. If tin's had been a
shooting party, Dora knew, though she had
seen so little of the world, that competition
would be for something other than the smiles
of women and jealousy caused by something
other than a girl's kindness. She had seen
men silent and moody, when they were
expected to be attentive, for reasons which
seemed to her to show the unreasonableness
of men ; they had not shot up to their form
forsooth, or more pheasants had gone over
somebody else. But this party was of the
most perilous kind. Not only was it full of
daily dangers, and each hour given up to
both the sexes ; but it seemed also to have no
necessary end. Dora without direct inquiry
had discovered that no one of the guests
had been asked for a definite period. Not
one had been asked from a Tuesday to a
Saturday; nor was a word said by any one
of them, which tended to show that he or she
was on a round of visits. Such a party

seemed to Dora as if, like a novel, it could
only end in an engagement. She saw all the
danger ; but the keener her perception of the
danger, the more gallant arose her spirit.
Noting the signs of this perilous idleness in
the men, she only felt the joy of battle.
What are you going to do to-day ? " she
asked Archie, as if she had no care but to
end one of those periods of silence, which are
too common at the breakfast-table.

Nothing," he answered pleasantly, " unless
you can suggest something'

How is it that you are not shooting at
all ? " she asked again.

My keeper won't let me," he said.

She laughed and looked about her.

He doesn't mean me," said Sir Villiers
drily, as her eye met his ; " he refers to the
gamekeeper."

A most alarming man," said Archie,
from Yorkshire, of few words, but very
emphatic. He has decreed that we are nol
to shoot this week."

But why ? " asked Dora.

I didn't dare to ask," answered Archie ;
I suppose the pheasants prefer it. They
might give us a chance — or me, at least. I
never had much shooting, as you know."

Good old Archie ! " said Tony Bothering
kindly ; and he added thoughtfully.
All that business with the rifle in America
will have made you more out of it still."

It's very hard on Mr. Tony, isn't it ? "
said Dora to Archie.

Oh, never mind me," said Tony.

u Oh, but I am sure it is so bad for you,"
she said; "lam sure you need a great deal
of air and exercise."

Do you think so too ? " he asked, with
a sudden accession of gravity. He looked
earnestly from Mrs. Rutherford to his well-filled
plate. " That's what my doctor Ba
he added.

Your doctor ! " said Dora ; " have you
got a doctor?" Looking at the smooth rosy
face before her, she could not help laughing.

You bet I have," said Tony gravely.
I go to Moody."

f ' Dr. Moody is a very clever man," said Mrs.
Dormer, who had become deeply interested
at the moment when the conversation touched
health ; "he was my doctor once — no, not
my last doctor ; he was the last but two ; I
can't remember why I left him ; I know he
is extremely clever."

He is extremely clever," said Sir Villiers
Hickory ; " he has made a large fortune by
telling people not to over-eat themselves ;
that's clever."

It's most important," said Mrs. Dormer.

Well, I am all for shooting," said Dora ;
I am sure that Mr. Tony's health requires it."

Then you must ask the keeper," said
Archie, laughing.

Well," said Mrs. Dormer, who thought it
time to put a gentle end to this plan, " I am
sure that I for one am glad that there is to
be no shooting this week. One either doesn't
see a man all day, or else one has to stand

outside a damp clump with poor little rabbits
bolting under one's petticoats and great
pheasants falling on one's hat, and explosions
going on ; and one lunches in a draughty
place with guns in all the corners, and a
horrid man on each side of you with pockets
full of cartridges."

The expression of Mrs. Dormer's vi
ended the discussion. Dora discreetly said
no more ; and Mrs. Dormer did not think it
necessary to add that the keeper's decision
about the shooting had been made after her
last friendly visit to the keeper's wife. The
Yorkshire keeper had married a little woman,
who had been born and bred in a southern
county ; and, if he were inclined to issue
orders to the rest of the world, she was able
for the most part to provide him with directions.
She and Mrs. Dormer were very old
friends, and, if they agreed that not a gun
should be fired, the interests of neither owner,
keeper, nor pheasants were of much weight
in comparison.

CHAPTER X.

Soon after breakfast Dora was standing on
the terrace, and looking over the fine expanse
of park. It was a broad terrace, stretched in
front of the long Italian wing, which was
the most modern part of the Castle ; and from
this raised plateau she looked far away overland,
which looked as if every clump of trees,
almost every tree, had been planted to make
the best possible effect, and as if the land
itself had been curved and hollowed in strict
agreement with some pedant's rules of beauty.
Since there was to be no shooting, Dora
had asserted promptly that, when she was in
the country, she liked to be out of doors all
day long, and had asked Archie to show her
the place ; and she now waited for him with
some impatience. After a few minutes he

came ; and she saw that a small company was
coming with him. There was Leonard Yale,
and Tony Fotheringham, and Mrs. Cham
and finally Elizabeth Lock. Miss Lock had
said that she had letters to write, but her
mother had said " Nonsense ! " and had added
that a walk was just what she wanted. Afl
they came towards her, Dora again said to
herself that this was a sulky girl.

11 1 wondered if I might come too," -
Clara Chauncey, as if she looked to Dora
Rutherford for permission.

Of course you may," said Dora pleasantly ;
that is, you have as much right anywhere
as I have— or more, for you didn't invite
yourself." Then she took possession of Archie,
giving a little shake to his arm. " Now.
Archie," she said, " you are to tell us all
about it — the house and the park and ev
thing."

All I know," said Archie blandly ; he
too stood and looked across this well-kept
park. " It must be rather jolly in summer'

he said ; " it looks as if it had been all done
with a spade and a foot-rule, and yet I saw a
bit of land high up in the Rocky Mountains
which looked like this, though of course it
was just as Nature placed the grass and trees.
I suppose this has been pretty well groomed,
though."

And the house ? " asked Dora, giving his
arm a little pull that he might be brought to
regard his stately dwelling-place. " I know
this part ; this is the newest ; but which is
the oldest ? "

How should I know ? " asked Archie.

You are bound to," she answered.

But I give you my word I don't," he
said ; "it all looks to me old enough. That's
the good of this old English climate of ours.
Now I dare say this place was built at a
dozen different times, and of different stone
too ; and then comes our rare old climate
and damps and stains, and sets the ivy
growing and sticks on the lichen, and there
you are — it looks as if it had grown !

He regarded his castle with a dawning
affection.

But you ought to know more about it,"
said Dora, as they began to move.

I think that I know something about it,"
said Clara Chauncey modestly, " if I may
venture to instruct its owner. I have been
reading about it in the county book. The
tower is the oldest part."

They had come down from the terrace, and
they now stopped again and looked at the
tower, which was connected by a short wing
with the rest of the building.

How old ? " asked Dora.

"Well," said Clara, "it has been much
restored, but they say in the book that some
of this tower is so old that nobody knows to
what period it belongs ; they talk about
ancient Romans and people of that kind ;
and the walls are tremendously thick ; and
there is a staircase in one of them."

Oh ! " cried Dora, delighted, " a secret
staircase ! "

Yes," said Clara ; " and in behind that
shrubbery must be the door. Isn't it, Mr.
Yale?"

They all looked at Leonard Yale, who had
not spoken. He had been looking very cross,
but at this appeal to him he smiled on all the
party. " I'm afraid I don't know much about
it," he said.

But of course — I never thought of it,"
said Archie — " of course the upper end of the
staircase must come out in your rooms. You
ought to see Lenny's rooms," he said to the
others ; " he has such good taste ; he has
made them charming."

They are on view at any time," said
Leonard, beginning to move away.

But does the secret staircase really come
out in your rooms ? " asked Clara Chauncey
with her innocent air of curiosity.

I never looked," he said shortly.

It is really so interesting in the book,"
she said to the others ; " all sorts of people
have escaped down it — fugitive priests and

cavaliers, and a lady eloping, and — oh, it's
really most interesting."

By this time they had passed the other
wing and turned the corner of the house.

This is the side which I like Lest," said
Archie ; " it doesn't look so much as if a
hundred gardeners had been at work on it a
hundred years."

They stopped again and looked. Luckily
for them it was one of the soft days of
November. There was a feeling of moisture
and fertility in the air, a gentle wind and a
cloudy sky. Under the influences of the day
the landscape had a look of gentle melancholy,
and of promise too ; one seemed to feel the
secret work of Nature in the ground, and to
anticipate the far-off spring. On this side of
the Castle there was no terrace nor formal
flower-beds. The park began at the wall
and sloped downwards, with no great steepness,
but showing a more broken surface
everywhere, until it ended in a line of
willows, which marked the little brook in the

bottom. Beyond the brook the land rose
with less steepness, but that more gentle
slope was covered with all which the improvements
of many owners had left of an
ancient wood. There were trim coverts in
many parts of the property, which were
better adapted for sporting purposes ; but this
old bit of woodland pleased the new lord the
best.

They descended into the dell.

May we go over ? " asked Dora, with
her foot on the end of a tree-trunk, which
lay across the little stream.

If you ain't afraid," said Archie.

Afraid of what ? " she asked. " Of your
awful keeper, or of a log of wood, or
what ? Don't you know that I am afraid of
nothing ? "

Ah, how I envy you ! " said Clara
Chauncey, with a devout look in the expressive
eyes. " I am afraid of everything.
To look at that log gives me a
vertigo."

u Then look at me ! " said Dora, and she
ran along the trunk as safely as a squirrel.
I must go up into the wood," she said from
beyond the brook ; " it smells so good."

Stick to the path," said Archie ; " and
I hope you won't be seized as a poacher.
There's a better bridge higher up, and we'll
join you."

Dora had begun already to mount the path
which led up through the wood. It was a
rough track, half-choked with dead leaves
and squelchy, as Dora described it to herself,
underfoot. She had not gone far when she
was aware of some one following her, and,
turning, saw Leonard Yale. " Oh, you came
over too," she said.

This is one of those remarks on which
comment is superfluous. Lenny, who had
not put on boots fit. for the country, had been
picking his way behind her in a rather
comical fashion ; but, when she turned, he
came to her more quickly. " I hope von
don't mind," he said.

"Mind? Why should I?" she asked.
Only," she added, " isn't it rather rash for
us both to leave them ? "

That's all right for a few minutes," he
said ; " Tony and Mrs. Chauncey are there,
and they are all together. It's only for a
few minutes, and a few minutes are so much
to me."

She looked at him quickly and began to
walk on again.

I am always so awfully afraid of offending
you," he said. "If I were to say half of
what I feel about you and your friendship,
you would laugh at me."

No," said Dora ; " I told you I liked to
make friends. I have always said that it is
all nonsense to say that men and women
can't be friends."

And you will be my friend ? " he said.

Yes, yes," she answered ; " I told you so."

They walked on together for a time in
silence.

I wonder," he began presently, " if I am

VOL. I. M

enough of a friend to say something ? " He
paused as if for permission.

How can I tell," she asked, " till yon
say it ? "

He smiled, to show his admiration of her
readiness. " I can't help thinking," he said.
"of something which you said yesterday. I
want so much to tell you that I understand
and sympathize ; and then I think that it is
impossible that you should care whether I
care or not. I am disheartened when I
think of you and of myself."

What was it I said ? "

It was about your husband, and his not
consulting you, and "

She stopped him with her laughter.

I don't wonder that you laugh at me,"
he said. " It didn't seem a laughing matter
to me."

At least it is not tragical," she said ; " it
does not do, lean assure you, to look at these
things tragically. One can't expect to be
understood by one's husband."

He sighed as he walked beside her. " Of
course," he said after a time, " you are right,
as you always are. It is brave of you to feel
that — and wise, too, I suppose. But, after
all, it does seem tragic enough to me. You'll
laugh at me, of course ; but I can't help
thinking of something, which I read somewhere,
about an Indian throwing away a
pearl richer than all his tribe."

Dora laughed, but not quite naturally.
Alas, poor Indian ! " she said lightly ; " after
all it was better than hanging it in his nose."

Leonard sighed instead of laughing.
How can one help cursing fate," he said
suddenly and almost angrily, " when one
sees a man who has got the best thing in the
world and doesn't half value it, and when
one knows that to another it would be light
and life and everything ? — of course you
laugh ; I know I am a fool ; but I can't
help it."

Dora was not at all inclined to laugh. She
was uncomfortable, but interested. She had

had no intention of discussing her husband
with another man ; and yet she had slipped
into a half-veiled criticism of her husband.
She felt that she was wrong ; and yet she was
interested. There was a relief in allowing
the grievance of her life, which she had so
long kept close, to emerge a little into the
light, not so far but that she could clap it
under lock and key again in a moment. And
then this young man, this friend, was so
tactful and so careful of her feelings, that she
could venture to discuss with him a matter,
which she would discuss with nobody else ;
and, moreover — and it was this which made
her most bold — she was certain of her power
over him, certain that she could stop him ina
moment, if he said or even looked too
much. Her power over the young man made
her bold, and it pleased her, too, and flattered
her. She suspected that many women had
flattered him ; and he flattered her. Other
women had admired his looks ; she knew that
she did not care at all for his regular features

and languid grace. This spoiled young man
came humbly to her for advice and assistance
; and this pleased her very much indeed.
But, although she was pleased, she was
uncomfortable too. She felt a quality in his
adoration which made her uneasy. She
realized that it was time to use her power
over him, and to stop him now. " Is it far
to the top of the wood ? " she asked.

He did not know ; and Dora, who having
once begun to ascend a thing could not be
happy till she had reached the top, and seen
what was beyond, begun to hurry up the
path. And so they came to the upper
boundary of the wood, and found a country
road beyond which was rough open common.

No sooner had Dora seen this than she
turned and hurried down again. " We have
left them too long," she said.

He smiled as he followed her ; it gave him
exquisite pleasure to hear her speak as if he
and she were partners in a plot. This
pleased him so much, that he almost forgot

to care whether Lord Lonilaire married or
no, or only cared because the decision of his
cousin's fate would put a stop to this delightful
partnership. He was wise enough to say
no more at this time about himself or about
her. As they went quickly down through
the wood, he only made a few remarks about
Archie, speaking to her as to a superior
officer, who kindly allowed him an inkling
of her plans. Her uneasiness vanished ; her
spirits rose ; she hurried downward over the
fallen leaves to rescue that other young man,
who might be running into danger.

It seemed as if this sage protector of young
men was not a moment too soon. When
Dora and Leonard Tale had disappeared in
the wood, the rest of the party had walked
along the bank of the little stream. When
they had reached the little rustic bridge,
Mrs. Chauncey had declared that it looked
no safer than the log below, and had invited
Tony Fotheringham to walk further up the
stream with her. So Archie and Elizabeth

had crossed with no other companions and
had walked slowly back to where the little
track ran up into the wood. There they had
waited for Dora's return ; and presently, since
she did not come, Elizabeth had suggested
that they should return to the house. She
would not go back to the bridge again ; she
chose to walk the tree-trunk, as Mrs. Rutherford
had done. So she had stepped boldly
on to the log and walked half-way across,
and there had been seized with a sudden
panic, had stood still, shut her eyes, and,
before Archie had seen that anything was
the matter, she had slipped from the uncertain
bridge and splashed in the stream.

When Dora emerged, keen-eyed and
anxious, from the wood, the sight which she
saw was this. On the top of the opposite
bank was Archie, wet almost to the shoulders.
He had just scrambled up, and was now
helping Miss Lock to climb out of the water.
The girl's hat was floating down the brook,
and a great strand of her splendid hair was

hanging loose. When Archie had brought
her safe to the top of the hank she covered
her face with both her hands and seemed to
sway, and would have fallen, perhaps, had
not Archie held her in his arms. This was
the sight which Dora saw ; this was the sight
which lent her wings. She darted along the
log, and, as she gained the farther side,
uttered a shrill cry and fell.

At the sound of Dora's cry Elizabeth
awoke to her position ; with one hand she
pushed back her fallen hair, and with the
other pushed her supporter almost angrily
away. Archie, seeing in a moment that
Elizabeth could stand alone, left her and ran
to Dora. Almost at the same moment
Leonard Yale, who had stood speechless and
sick with fear, appeared at her other side ;
he seemed to have lost control of himself; he
sank down beside her babbling and trembling.
Oh, oh ! " he gasped, " she'll die— she'll die.
I tell you ! " he was ghastly white and ibis
fine teeth were chattering. Archie looked

quickly at him with surprise, annoyance,
a new dislike. He stooped and lifted Dora
from the ground, and by the same movement
drew her away from the youth who
was grovelling at her side.

As she felt herself raised from the earth
Dora opened her eyes and saw that it was
Archie, as she hoped, who had raised her.
Thank you," she said feebly, but holding
his arm most tightly ; " it's better now."

What's better ? " he asked.

My ankle. You must help me to the
house. Oh, thank you, Archie ; how good
you are ! "

She turned her face from his to smile upon
Elizabeth, who now drew near to offer aid.
I will take an arm of each of you," she
said ; and, so supported, she limped up to the
house.

CHAPTER XL

Ox the next morning there was sound of
determined knocking at a door in the t
wing. Tony Fotheringham was there, grave
and business-like, arrayed for the chase. He
listened, but could hear no sound ; and so,
after a fit interval, he opened the door and
went in.

The room, which he entered, was the middle
one of the three, which Leonard Tale had
rescued from disused targets, broken bird-cages,
and all the strange worthless lumber
which a great house must push into Borne
corner. This had been no incomplete conversion.
Chairs of divers shapes, each an
experiment in comfort, filled much of the
floor, and small tables were so placed among
them that the most lazy of loungers need

move nothing but an arm, and that not far,
to the desired tumbler or box of cigarettes.
It was, in short, the most luxurious of
smoking-rooms ; but on the mantelpiece,
instead of pipes or tobacco-jars, were bits of
fine china, and here and there against the
wall stood a piece of valuable old furniture.
Opposite to the door was a large window ;
and in the thickness of the wall a deep
window-seat had been made, that the amateur
might recline at ease and please his eye with
easy seeing of one of the finest views which
Langley Castle could give. Leonard Vale
had a pretty taste. The smaller room on the
right of this was more distinctly a cabinet of
curiosities ; and in his bedroom on the left,
which was under the empty open apartment
at the top of the tower, such commonplace
things as a young man's washing-stand and
chest of drawers were each a bit of cabinet-work
which challenged the attention of the
earnest inquirer, and made simple folk wonder
where the basin could be.

Tony was in no mood to linger over works
of art. He walked across the sitting-room
and knocked again upon the door of the
bedroom. This time a sound of some sort
was heard, and, after waiting for a minute to
consider its meaning, Tony opened the door
and entered. A silken portiere opened with
the door, and, by the light thus admitted
from the outer room, the visitor was able to
see the bed, at the foot of which hung a piece
of needle-work, worked in a harem, sold in
the bazaar of Smyrna, and now protecting by
day the couch of Mr. Leonard Yale.

Leonard was awake. Without moving his
head on the pillow he turned a lack-lustre
but hostile eye on the intruder; he said
nothing.

Oh ! old chap, I say ! " said good Mr.
Fotheringham, for the sight grieved him.
*' It is so awfully bad for you, you know," lie
added sadly. As Mr. Yale made no comment
on this speech, Tony spoke again. "I said
I'd come and look you up," he said. " You

ought to have breakfasted, you know ; the
trap is just coming round, and Archie told
me to remind you that a horse had gone on
for you."

I wish you had gone on ! " said Leonard
malevolently. " Ring, will you ? "

What for ? " asked Tony, suspiciously.

Leonard growled. His friend regarded him
sadly. He sighed and shook his round head
before he spoke again.

I say, Lenny, old chap, I do wish you
wouldn't go on like this. You go too fast,
you know ; you can't last."

Who wants to last ? " cried out Lenny,
with sudden liveliness and a more audible
malediction. " Do you think I want to save
myself up like a pound in an old woman's
stocking ? Will you ring that bell ? "

You drink too much and you smoke too
much. My doctor "

Hang your doctor ! "

Oh no, I say, don't say that. He is a
tremendously clever chap, aud he knows."

Oh, go to "

No, I shan't. I shall tell you what my
doctor says. He says you ought not to
smoke more than two cigars a day, or their
equivalent in cigarettes." The word "equivalent"
was invested with an extraordinary
solemnity by Mr. Fotheringham. He paused
that his friend might have time to digest this
golden rule, and then said, " You know, old
man, there's nothing more important than
health. Do you know my exercise ? "
As no answer was returned, Tony gravely
inclined his body forward from the hips, and
with his shoulders forced backwards to an
unnatural extent, uttered in a deep tone the
words " Ninety-nine ! "

Leonard Yale looked at him with amazement
and anger.

Ninety-nine, ninety-nine, ninety-nine,"
said Tony Fotheringham, absorbed by this
enchanting occupation.

Great Scot ! " said Leonard, when at last
the other paused, and looked at him with

beaming face, expecting sympathy. " By
George, you are a fool ! "

Good old Lenny ! " said Tony amiably in
answer. " But really and truly, if you will
do that exercise for an hour a day, you will
be a different man. And as to drinks:, my
doctor says "

Confound you ! Will you ring that
hell ? " cried Leonard.

Mr. Fotheringham rang the bell with a
protesting air ; and with the same air he
heard Mr. Yale's man ordered to prepare the
usual pick-me-up. When Leonard had
swallowed this dram, he felt more equal to
the duties of the day, and listened, while
Tony told him again that they were just
going to start, and that among the horses,
which had been sent on, was one for him.

Am I fit to go hunting ? " asked Leonard
plaintively. He put his arm out of bed and
held it up and watched it tremble.

It would do you good, old chap," cried
Tony heartily.

It's a funking day with me," said Leonard;
my nerves are all over the place ; I couldn't
sit on for shaking."

Well, are you coming ? " asked Tony ;
we can't wait. Archie told me to remind
you, if you weren't ready, that you could
order the dog-cart, and come after us and
take your chance."

Who's going ? " asked Leonard.

Well, there's me, and Archie, and good
old Hickory and Mrs. Rutherford."

Leonard Yale threw off the clothes and
brought his feet to the floor. " Oh, I am
bad," he said miserably, as he sat on the bed
" I can't go ; it's no good ; it's just my vile
luck." He turned into bed again, stretched
down a long left arm to pull up the bedclothes,
and lay with his face to the wall.

Tony waited a moment, regarding ibis
prostrate friend with a pathetic expression
on his rosy face.

Ob, do get out, can't you ? " growled the
friend ; and Tony went.

Tony, descending sadly from the tower
wing, found the rest of the party assembled
near the fire in the hall. Had he been
quick at perceiving the moods of others, he
would have seen that Lady Jane Lock was
but little happier than the friend, whom he
had left cursing destiny upon his bed. The
lady was very stiff in the back and very red
in the face, and, do what she could, she could
not restrain her tongue entirely from speech.
The sight of Mrs. Rutherford descending the
majestic staircase, wearing a perfect habit,
and moreover displaying on each step the
neatest of riding-boots, had filled Lady Jane
with a wrath, for which some vent was
merely necessary. A sprained ankle on one
day, and such a boot on the next ! She had
tried hard not to speak, but at last she was
forced to say something. This something
took the form of congratulation. " I cannot
help congratulating you," she said, with a
sort of strangled laugh, " on your wonderful
recovery, or rather on your wonderful ankle."

VOL. I. N

Dora smiled sweetly upon her, and looked
down at her foot with an exasperating approval.


"I should think there never v :i a

case," continued Lady Jane, who was hurried
away by her own words ; " a miraculous cure
of a sprain — it really ought to go to the
medical journals."

To tell you the truth," said Dora, with
enchanting candour, "it was really nothing
at all."

Really ? " asked Lady Jane, with concentrated
scorn.

"I was more frightened than hurt." said
Dora ; " and I am so glad it was no worse,
for I wouldn't have missed to-day for anything.
I do hope that Miss Lock will be all
right when we get back."

It was beyond the power of Miss Lock's
mother to express gratitude for this kind
wish. While Dora, radiant and in closely-fitting
boots, was about to start with the men
for a day's hunting, poor Elizabeth was in

her room, suffering from a chill. Her mother
had stood beside her bed, regarding her with
the eye of an army doctor who suspects a
recruit of shamming. She had rated her for
her clumsiness, as if she had fallen from a
bridge edged by high parapets for the safety
of passers. She had administered a dose,
which she had brought many times to the
bedside of every one of her daughters ; and
finally she had stoutly declared that the best
remedy for this chill, which ought never to
have been taken, was a day's exercise in the
open air. Not a word had Lady Jane Lock
said of her objection to girls' hunting ; she
was ready to pocket her prejudices for the
good of her child ; she was eager to hoist her
into the saddle. But Elizabeth would not.
She would not hunt — she would not even getup.
Is it to be wondered at that Lady Jane
was unable to refrain from bitter speech,
when she saw Mrs. Rutherford radiant, attractive,
admirably equipped for the chase, and
thought of her own child, who positively

rejected her advice ? " Elizabeth is obstinate
as a mule," she had said, not for the first
time, to her friend Susan Dormer. " Elizabeth
has so much character," she was apt to
confidentially to less intimate acquaintance.
Express it as she would, she was well aware
that this girl was able to meet her will with
a passive opposition which she had not found
in any of her elder daughters. She had not
encountered this opposition often ; but, when
she had encountered it, she had found, as she
found on this day, that Elizabeth had her
way. This element, so little expected in a
daughter of hers, embarrassed Lady Jane
more than all the other obstacles which barred
her path. She was like a skilful chess-player,
who has suddenly found to his amazement
that the most important of his pieces may
refuse to move. Imagine the attitude of a
player, who awakes to the doubt if his queen
have not a will of her own ! To such a
doubt Lady Jane had been growing more and
more alive since the day on which she had

presented at Court the youngest and handsomest
of her daughters.

The day's hunting was better than the
last ; and Dora, happy in the country air and
glowing with the ardour of the chase, forgot,
save at brief moments, all plots and counterplots,
and the important duty of saving the
young men, her contemporaries. She enjoyed
herself like a child, and could not believe
that the sun was not sloping to the west
before his time. Archie was not joyous
enough to please her ; and she again and
again demanded from him more expressions
of Lis happiness. When they were riding
homeward together, she attacked him on this
subject.

Why so glum ? " she asked.

He laughed, and denied that he was not

You are not half such good company as
you used to be," she said.

Perhaps I'm growing old," said Archie.
As she considered his unusual solemnity,

the full perception of his danger came back
to her. She was half inclined to follow up
her attack, to put this matter to the touch, to
ask him suddenly then and there if he were
glum because Elizabeth was not there. The
question was on the point of her tongue ; but
it came no further. She decided that it
would be rash ; she gave full weight to the
fact that, in spite of all their old friendship
and old interchange of thoughts, he said nota
word to her about this girl. She could not
believe that he did not think about her,
especially since he had pulled her out of the
brook, and seen half her hair down ; and yet
he did not speak about her. This fact
appeared to Dora significant of much ; and
she made up her mind not to begin discussion
of this perilous subject. She was not too
much elated by her little victories ; for she
knew full well that, if the mischief were
already done, to carry off the young man day
after day, was but to feed the flame. The
absence, which makes the heart grow fonder.

is generally a short absence. So Dora thought
and determined to check her natural impetuosity,
to be cautious, to say nothing yet
about Elizabeth.

I was thinking of old Palfrey," said
Archie presently ; " I was wondering how
one entertains a man who is going to be in a
Cabinet."

What ? Mr. Palfrey ? The great Mr.
Palfrey ? Is he coming here ? "

We shall find him when we get back,"
said Archie, nodding.

But who asked him ? What's he coming
for ? Do you know him ? "

No, I don't know him," said Archie ;
how should I ? He's to speak at Langstone
next week."

But who asked him to stay with you ? "

Uncle Yilliers. Do you object, Dora ?
Shall I thrust him from my gates ? "

Now, Dora was busily thinking whether
she objected or not. So far as the danger of
matrimony was concerned, the infusion of a

lively political element was a thing to be
welcomed. And yet it vexed her that the
friend of her youth, her dear Archie, the
potent young Lord Lorrilaire, should be
nobody in his own house.

They say that an Englishman's hous
his castle," she said, with her chin in the air.

Well ? " asked Archie.

Your castle seems to be everybody el
house," she said ; " that's all."

He laughed in the best humour. " They
take all the trouble," he said.

And besides," she went on, " you are a
Liberal. Why should you entertain one of
the rising lights of the other people ? "

They are much of a muchness," said young
Lord Lorrilaire ; " I'd about as soon feed one
as the other."

No, no, no," cried out Dora ; kt that's
nothing in the world but laziness. I thought
you'd say that sort of thing, and it's only
laziness ! You ought to take a side. There
must be more right on one side than another.

You can't not care about politics ; and you
are a power in the land ; you must take a
side and stick to it."

Is that necessary, nowadays ? " asked
Archie, laughing ; "I mean the sticking toit?"


Of course you can be flippant," said
Dora ; " but of course I am right. A man
ought not to let other people make him into
just what they like."

She said this with decision, and she paused
when she had said it, that he might take
from it as much profit as he would.

There's no fear," said Archie after a time ;
but she shook her head.

One can put one's foot down at anytime,"
he said again ; but again she shook
her head.

"Well," he said, laughing, "let us float a
little way ! I assure you, Dora, I don't feel
yet as if my life was real. Sometimes all
this sort of thing seems a dream ; and sometimes
all the old time seems a dream ; but I

can never believe in both at once. You must
give me time to feel my feet. Feeding Mr.
Palfrey for a few days can't make me a
Tory, if there are any Tories ; and "

And what ? " asked Dora quickly.

If Archie had been on the point of adding
a statement even more interesting to the lady,
he thought better of it. He laughed instead ;
he always found it so easy to laugh, and to
laugh is often the least compromising end of
a sentence.

Well, there's the Castle," he said presently,
as they came within sight of it; " is it all
real or a dream — all this imposing existence?"

Dora answered with a little sound of contempt.


"You'll find it real enough," she said,
when you've floated too far to get back."

One can always get back," he said,
laughing again.

CHAPTER XII.

Feeding Mr. Palfrey for a few days can't
make me a Tory," Archie had said ; and then
he had said " and " ; and then he had stopped,
adding nothing but laughter. Dora, when
she was alone in her room, resting and thinking
before the dressing-bell, wondered much
what words had nearly followed that suggestive
" and." She completed the sentence
for her own satisfaction in this way : —
Feeding Mr. Palfrey for a few days can't
make me a Tory, and admiring a girl's back
hair, also for a few days only, can't make mea
husband."

Was this what Archie had so nearly said ?
If so, why had he stopped ? Had chivalry
stopped his tongue, or a sudden doubt if he
were not really falling in love? She tried to

analyze his laughter, which had come in
the place of words. Was it mere careless
laughter, or was there in it some element of
tenderness? Had he laughed as a young
man laughs detecting in himself a hidden
weakness of love ?

Dora recumbent after the fatigues of the
hunting day tried to determine the state of
her gallant young host ; hut she failed to
satisfy herself. Only of one thing did she
grow more sure ; the introduction of the
political question into Langley Castle was a
decided good. Politics, as she told herself,
are as good an antidote to love as shooting
is. If the one makes men silent and moody,
the other makes them argumentative and
garrulous. Both turn the minds of men
upon each other and divert them from the
dangerous consideration of the other sex. & i
a young man turns from a lady's eyes to
discuss local government, of which he probably
knows much less.

Dora felt sure then that she might welcome

the advent of politics and of the politician.
She made up her mind to receive Mr. Palfrey
as an ally. For her own sake, too, she felt
a pleasant excitement at his coming. She
liked to meet eminent people ; this had been
among her most favoured dreams in her
girlhood's days at the rectory. To meet
eminent people, to feel the currents of political
life, to be in and of the movement — these
had been among the visions of the little
daughter of the country clergyman. Many
of her dreams had come true ; but not the
dearest dream of all. Other politicians had
listened to her with apparent interest, but
not her husband. This, as has been said,
was the disappointment of her life. And
this disappointment gave a peculiar excitement
to each new introduction to an eminent man.
She was eager to impress each impressive
person ; she felt like an Indian with yet
another scalp in prospect; and her heart
fluttered at the hidden thought that, when all
men had acknowledged that she was worth

hearing, perhaps her husband last of all
might awake to the amazing fact that he had
not married a fool.

Now, it happened that Mrs. Rutherford
had never met Mr. Palfrey, or, if she had
met him at some large official party, she had
not known it. She would not have known
him by sight but for the shop-wind
Mr. Palfrey had attained to that stage in the
life of the politician, which is marked by the
sudden appearance of his photograph in shop-windows.
The actors, whose likenesses adorn
the same windows, appear truculent or
benevolent, tender or sinister, according to
the characters which they represent ; but the
statesmen all wear the same ex]
Among them the countenance of Mr. Palfrey
had lately appeared. Mr. Palfrey was recognized
as one of the rising men of his party.

Dora allowed herself more time than she
usually gave to her toilet. When this waa
w r ell advanced, she sent her maid with kind
inquiries about the health of Miss Lock ; and

the maid returned with the thanks of the
young lady and the news that she was much
better, but would not leave her room that
evening. This, too, was satisfactory to Dora.
She had no wish that Elizabeth should be
ill ; but yet a free evening was something
for which to be grateful. Of course, if the
girl were really ill, Lord Lorrilaire would
feel pity, and, where there is pity, there is
danger. But still, as Dora put the last
touches to her charming toilet, she felt a
sense of freedom, the anticipation of a pleasant
evening, of a new success.

As she looked at herself in the big glass,
she admitted with her natural frankness that
Elizabeth was according to rule a handsomer
woman than herself; but fascination cannot
be reduced to rules ; she was content with
her appearance. She was altogether sanguine.
For that night at least all promised
well. With a fine flood of politics and the
girl away, a real victory might bo won, and
the rich young lord swept clear beyond the

reach of danger. So down went Dora in her
most becoming gown and most agreeable
mood.

If Dora had suspected that there was a
deliberate purpose of penning Lord Lorrilaire
in the Conservative fold, she was sure of it
when she entered the drawing-room. She
recognized Mr. Palfrey in a moment. He
was standing by the fire with his head a
little bent, and the expression which a prominent
politician wears when he is courteously
pretending to listen to an outsider, and is
thinking of something else. She at once
drew his attention to herself, but at the same
moment she was aware of the presence of
another and an even more remarkable man.
She saw Lord Hackbut. Archie had said nota
word of the coming of Lord Hackbut ; and
Dora at once doubted if Archie had known
of his coming. It was as likely as not that
Sir Villiers had not mentioned it ; and yet
Dora knew that, if Mr. Palfrey were a Big
of an intended capture of Archie, the presence

of Lord Hackbut was a sign ten times
as serious. Lord Hackbut always meant
business.

Lord Hackbut was at least ten years older
than the rising Palfrey, and, so far as the
public knew, he had not yet begun to rise.
Nevertheless he was a man of great strength,
both bodily and mental. If the public knew
little of him and had never seen his harsh
old face grinning from the windows of
stationers and fancy repositories, he was well-known
to the few who were proud of knowing
the inner mechanism of the Conservative
party. With these initiated persons he enjoyed
the reputation of having refused all the
things which public men as a rule impatiently
demand. He was said to have refused the
highest places about the Court, many special
missions, all sorts of ribands; and many years
ago, in the days of his youth, to have declined
those subordinate offices in Governments,
through which the able man rises in due
course to a seat in the Cabinet. The decorate

i. o

time side of public affairs had never tempted
him, nor to he pointed at by the vacillating
finger of the man in the street ; the magic
words, "That's 'im," had never thrilled his
soul. It was organization which attracted
him. From the first he had but one great
aim in meddling with politics — to be admitted
freely behind the scenes, to learn how the
puppets are worked, and in due time to work
them. He had become the most powerful of
party managers. He had assisted in the
formation of Cabinets ; he had conducted
negotiations between doubtful colleagues.
He knew more than any man in England of
the strength of the party in this place or
that, and how far that strength would be
increased or diminished by any given policy.
Therefore he was consulted with eagerness
both as to measures and men. Before the
Caucus had appeared in England, or the
American weed in English rivers, Lord
Hackbut had been a sort of Caucus in
trousers, standing on legs rather bowed and

of extraordinary strength, with massive head
a little pushed forward, and keen humorous
eyes. A nose, which looked as if it had been
broken, and a front tooth which certainly had
been broken, added a certain fierceness to the
appearance of this remarkable man.

Lord Hackbut was well aware of the
services which he had rendered to his party.
He owed them nothing, and he held that
they owed him much ; but he asked no compensation
but the free indulgence of a somewhat
sardonic humour. He worked hard for
his party, and loved to mock the party leaders.
It was of course in private life that he thus
played the mocker. On the rare occasions,
when in his own county he felt bound to
speak in public, he would so load his leaders
with eulogy so extravagant, that his audience
cheered him and them to the echo, while the
eminent person, who happened to be present
as the representative of the body eulogized,
would wear the constrained and rather painful
smile of one who suspects irony. Irony is

understood by very few Englishmen, and
liked by fewer.

So soon as Dora, entering the drawing-room,
saw the marked countenance of the
great party manager, she knew that a serious
effort was about to be made to brand a
doubtful sheep with the right party mark.
Tt was a work after Lord Hackbut's heart to
preserve for his party the influence and wealth
of a family which had always been given to
that party. Dora was sure that he had
learned all about Archie, and that he would
lose no time in fixing him, where he should
be, at the head of the Conservative party in
the county. She felt indignation for Archie ;
but yet she saw, or thought that she
more clearly than ever that a definite plot
against the young lord's political preferences
made the other plot, which was directed
against his heart, more likely to fail.

It was clear that the formidable Lord
Hackbut was in the highest spirits. The
broken tooth was visible each moment. lie

took much delight in the society of pretty
women : and he had been surprised and
pleased at meeting his friend Mrs. Chauncey
in that place. She for her part faced him
bravely but warily ; she was a little afraid of
the old lord, and of his piercing eyes and
voice. " And where is my friend Jack
Chauncey ? " he asked in his clearest tones —
yachting, is he ? Yachting ! I thought
that panting was more in his line." He
laughed stridently at his own jest ; and Clara
laughed too, though with effort. She was
glad of the entrance of Dora, even though
she knew with her fatal perception that Lord
Hackbut recognized at a glance the appearance
of a beauty fresher and more novel than
her own. It was always the next thing that
this alarming peer might say, which made
people nervous in his society.

Lord Hackbut regarded Mrs. Rutherford
with obvious admiration. He took Mrs.
Dormer in to dinner, but he found Dora on
his right hand, and he frankly expressed Lis

pleasure at the arrangement. It was to Dora
that he addressed the greater part of his talk,
and he was in a very talkative humour. He
informed her at the outset that to talk to
a pretty woman was always pleasant ; but
that to talk to a pretty woman, who occasionally
understood what one meant, was one
of the rarest pleasures of life. He was outspoken
as usual, and amused Dora immensely
with his rash speeches.

I am here," he said, in an interval of his
very hearty dinner, " as a hanger-on of the
eminent man on the other side of the table.
Do you know him? No? You won't hear
much from him now. He has a tremendous
speech on his chest, which he has got to get
off next week at Langstone. Besides, he
won't talk before me ; he knows that I know
what a humbug he is. Look at him now !
He knows we are talking about him."

It is you who are talking about him,"
said Dora.

So it is," said Lord Hackbut. kt I love to

talk about him. Look at him ! Now he is
trying to look impressive, like an engraving
of Pitt ; now he is curtseying and condescending,
and pretending to listen. I can tell you
that he looks quite different when he's listening
to a Whip or to one of his local Three
Hundred. He's one of the biggest humbugs
in Europe. He tossed up at Oxford to see if
he should be Liberal or Tory. It came down
tails (the heads belong to the other party) ,
and we got him, and much good may he do
us. Shall you go and hear him speak ? "

Of course," said Dora ; " especially now
when I know all about him."

Yes, my dear," said the old lord, " you
come to me when you want to know about
these fellows. It's all a fraud, and we are all
in it. Do you believe in popular votes and
all that ? "

Yes," said Dora ; " I'm a Liberal'

Lord Hackbut laughed aloud ; and Palfrey
looked across the table with a startled eye
and an uneasy smile.

He believes in all that," said Lord
Hackbut, nodding at Mr. Palfrey, " or pretends
that he does. It's the biggest humbug
in Europe. We wouldn't give any fellows
votes if we could help it. Do you mean to
tell me that I shouldn't govern my county a
blanked sight better than the hat-inland
nominees of a lot of agricultural labourers ?
Better have given votes to foxes any day — far
more intelligent. Palfrey pretends to believe
in the people ; if he's anything, he's the
biggest Radical in Europe. I bet you he says
democracy ' in the next ten minutes ; and
I'll lay you ten to one he says it in the last
ten minutes of his speech at Langstone — in
public speeches it comes in the peroration."

"Oh, Lord Hackbut," said Dora, "I do
hope you'll make a speech ! That's what I
should like to hear ! "

Only a word or two," he said, "just to
tell 'em what an honour and privilege they
enjoy in listening to the words of wisdom of
the persuasive Palfrey."

Dora was very much amused by her neighbour.
Before dinner was over, he asked her a
few sudden questions about their young host,
which she answered so diplomatically, that
he burst out laughing again and declared
with emphasis that she was an uncommonly
clever little lady. When she rose with the
rest of the ladies, he made her a low bow
and expressed a hope that they might befriends.


Yes," said Dora, with a quick look, " and
allies too, perhaps, if we can come to terms."

I ask nothing better," said the old lord
gallantly, and displaying his broken tooth.

One thing, and one thing only, interfered
with Dora's pleasure on that evening. She
was disagreeably conscious of the eyes of
Mr. Leonard Yale. She had not seen Leonard
on that day until she came down to dinner ;
and then he had been unable to speak to her.
At dinner he had sat far down on the opposite
side of the table; but she had felt that he
was continually looking at her, and with

variations of expression which annoyed her.
Entreaty, expostulation, and even rebuke
seemed to her to be directed at her from
those expressive eyes. She was annoyed :
she condemned him for silliness ; she feared
that the keen-eyed old man beside her would
notice those persistent looks. She made up
her mind to speak very plainly to Mr. Vale
when the next opportunity of speaking should
come. Yet, when she had left the diningroom,
she at once rebuked herself for making
mountains out of molehills. She reminded
herself that the young man had confessed
himself a very weak creature, and that she
had promised to befriend him. It was certain
that his looks meant no more than a longing
for another tonic dose of good advice. If she
must find fault with him for staring, she
determined not to speak as if she suspected
an excess of devotion. She declared to herself
that that would be foolish indeed, and
would be in short like the behaviour of one
of the silly women, who thought all men in

love with them, and whom she had always
and unequivocally condemned.

And yet, when the men joined them, Dora
was vexed again by the airs of this young-man.
He looked pale, and dark under the
eyes, aggressively interesting. He made no
determined effort to come to her ; but he
continued to stare, till Dora felt as if all the
world must notice his staring. She gave
him not a glance in return, and tried not to
think of him. She had almost succeeded in
this effort, and the evening was drawing to a
close, when she rose with some of the others
to go into the next room, that they might
look at a picture there. As they passed
through the archway from one room to the
other, Dora felt a hand touch hers and a
scrap of paper left in her fingers. She started
and looked a quick and angry question, but
she only saw the back of Mr. Vale, as he
moved away. Clara Chauncey, who was
close beside her, began to ask questions with
great interest about the picture; and the

others stopped before it, while Dora moved
on alone to the mantelpiece at the end of the
room. Tli ere she looked at the piece of paper
with marked disfavour, and almost instantly
allowed it to drop from her fingers on to the
coals. When she said good night to the gentlemen,
she was careful to make no reply of any
kind to the mute appeal of Leonard's eyes.
He ground his heel into the carpet and swore
under his breath, as he saw her vanish up the
staircase.

A little later another female figure, equally
light, flitted down the staircase. The gentlemen
had disappeared, and the footmen were
removing the lights from the drawing-room.
Mrs. Chauncey came in quickly and went
straight to the fireplace in the further room.
k One moment," she said to the man who
was moving the nearest lamp ; " I won't keep
you a moment, but I am afraid I threw a
paper into the fireplace by mistake."

The footman held the lamp conveniently
near. " I am so sorry to trouble you," said

Clara, who was always polite to other people's
servants, " but I foolishly threw a little paper
into the fire. Ah, there it is ! Yes, that's
it ; thank you ! A little burnt ? Yes, so it is ;
but not much. So lucky that it stuck on the
black coals ! Thank you ! "

Half of the little paper was burnt away ;
but enough remained. Clara folded it carefully
and held it hidden in her little hand as
she sped upstairs for the second time. Safe
in her room, she locked up the little note in a
safe place, and then prepared herself for that
repose which chloral, even more surely than
innocence, can afford to the nervous female
temperament.

CHAPTER XIII.

Tony Fotherixgham slept in a room on the
ground floor ; and as a rule lie slept like a
good little boy, breathing steadily from the
moment when his round cheek touched the
pillow to the moment when he was called to
resume the diet of the day. But on the night
which followed the arrival of Mr. Palfrey
and Lord Hackbut, Mr. Fotheringham was
somewhat disturbed. He turned over more
than once ; he even dreamed ; half-awake he
thought uneasily of his precious health.
Something, he feared, had disagreed with
him. He wondered, as he moved his hot
cheek on the pillow, if he had been upset by
the somewhat lurid talk in the smoking-room,
where "good old" Hackbut had denounced
the age with savage speech and much robust

enjoyment. Tony had listened open-mouthed
to the awful pleasantries of the old and
critical peer ; and now he lay wondering if
he had gone to bed with his head too hot. It
was either Lord Hackbut's picture of his
times, or the chestnuts of which he had imprudently
partaken after dinner, which was
the cause of the rosy boy's disquiet. The
light was long in coming. At last he awoke
again from uneasy slumber, and there was
the morning rosy too.

It was Sunday. Tony ]eft his bed, drew
his curtains open, and pulled up his blind ;
and looking at his watch, he found that there
was still more than an hour to be passed
before his usual time of waking. It was now
clear to him that something was wrong with
him. He examined his fresh young face in
the glass with solemn interest, and lie
imagined that he saw therein signs of the
commencement of various maladies. Something
must be done. He looked out of
window again, and felt the temptation of the

morning. Air and exercise were the cheapest
and easiest remedies within reach. He would
out into the air, and return to his bath when
the man had put it ready. Quickly dressing
himself in white flannel, with a cashmere
scarf across his throat, and over all a warm
pea-jacket with its collar turned up to his ears,
he opened his window and jumped down onto
the terrace. From the terrace he descended
into the park. A light hoar-frost was on the
grass ; the sky was clear but cold ; the freshness
of the air set the boy's tennis shoes in
motion. Mr. Tony began to trot steadily (he
was there for his health) across the grass in
the direction of the main avenue.

Tony paused when he reached the road
and considered his condition. He found
with pleasure that he was better already ; he
congratulated himself on the means which he
had taken to baffle the insidious enemy ; he
thought no more of the treacherous maladies
which had seemed close upon him. He
walked briskly along the road and away from

the house, until presently he remembered
how wise it is to vary the form of exercise,
and on the instant his mind jumped to his
own favourite little exercise. He glanced
this way and that ; nobody was in sight. So
early in the Sunday morning rest was everywhere
; it was wonderfully still ; not even a
twig was stirring. Tony moved on to the
rough grass by the side of one of the great
trees which formed the avenue, and under its
protecting arms commenced his strange and
imposing performance. With his feet firmly
planted a little apart, his body bent slightly
forward from the hips, and his shoulders
braced tightly backward, he began to bend
his knees and straighten them with a regular
rhythmical movement, while as an accompaniment
to the exercise he uttered again and
again in his deepest tones the suggestive
words " ninety-nine."

Tony was alone with Mother Nature, but
not for long. Scarcely had he begun to
repeat " ninety-nine " with an unvarying

VOL. I. p

regularity, when another person appeared
upon the road advancing rapidly towards the
house. This was a slight young man, but
little older than Tony himself, in a great
hurry, walking quickly though with short
steps. The skirts of his black frock-coat,
which was open, floated and fluttered behind
him as he came ; and his breast-pocket was
so full of papers, that it hung heavily away
from him, and seemed to draw him from
the straight line as he hurried forward.
His appearance was out of sympathy with
the freshness of the morning and the clean
air of the country. London was in his
looks ; and he seemed to have been up all
night. His high hat, which was distinctly
too large, had not been brushed since
yesterday, nor had his clothes, which were
otherwise so respectable. A thick little mat
of black hair appeared on his forehead below
his hat, and beneath the mat and from the
keen pale nervous face a pair of black eyes
looked, eager, restless, and feverishly given

to observation. It seemed to be of importance
to the universe that not a blade of grass
should escape those eyes. About the whole
man there was an air of earnest purpose and
of self-confidence. Indeed, Mr. Beck was
always hurrying to put something right ; and
so many other things were in need of his
correcting influence, that it is no wonder that
he did not find time to brush his hat.

To Mr. Beck hurrying up the road there
was no sign of any less important' presence,
until suddenly passing one of the large trees,
he came close upon a boyish-looking individual
conscientiously exercising himself on
the grass. Mr. Beck stopped short with a
nervous start, but with no sound ; he had
taught his nerves not to betray their sudden
shock by noise ; as an observer, he had found
this education of his excitable nerves strictly
necessary. He now stood still staring, and
the interest which he had encouraged himself
to find in all exhibitions of humanity grew
strong within him. Here was something the

like of which he had never yet seen. His
fingers went of themselves to the bulging
coat-pocket in which his note-book was
buried ; but, when he had dragged it out, he
only twisted it about unopened in those same
lean, and at present dirty, fingers, while he
continued to look and look. He was in
an observer of life.

Tony had not heard a sound. Any noise
which the light tripping feet of the other
had made on the road had been lost for Tony
in the unceasing repetition of his great
formula. " Ninety-nine, ninety-nine, ninety-nine
! " he said, deepening his innocent tones
as became the importance of the ceremony,
and solemnly rising and sinking with the
rhythmical bending and straightening of the
knees. It was a rule of Radley Beck never
to interrupt the progress of a phenomenon
which might lead to more interesting developments.
He stood watching with the liveliest
interest, till Mr. Fotheringham, at length
conscious of this strenuous and compelling

observation, stopped between a " ninety "
and a " nine," straightened his knees for the
last time, and turned and stared in turn.

Hah ! " cried Mr. Beck in a high voice.

Eh ? " said Tony, rather shamefaced.

May I ask the meaning ? " asked Radley
Beck, speaking quickly and with a certain
precise pronunciation of words, which he had
brought from Oxford and had not yet lost in
London. " Is it a local form of religion ?
Survival of some country superstition ? Sunday
morning — by the roadside — sun-worship
still to the fore — Ninety-nine what?" He
seemed to be murmuring the headings of
some paper. " Ninety-nine what ? " he asked
of Tony, smiling friendly and inquiring.

Oh, it's only a little sort of an exercise,"
said Tony, abashed by the extreme interest
displayed in those eyes ; then, as enthusiasm
rose again within him, he added, " It's wonderfully
good for you, you know — for the
lungs and that."

It is extremely interesting," said Mi'.

Beck, with his head on one side ; " doubtless
you are a guest at Langley Castle ? "

Yes," said Tony.

Is Lord Lorrilaire there ? "

Oh yes, he's there right enough," said
Tony.

Names of other guests ? " said the stranger,
inclining his head again towards his left
shoulder.

What ? " asked Tony.

Will you favour me with the names of
the other guests at the Castle ? So glad I
met you."

Thanks," said Tony ; " but what do you
want their names for ? Are you a report'

Mr. Beck smiled a smile full of meaning.

Yes and no," he answered, " as we used
to say at Balliol. I am a friend of Lord
Lorrilaire."

Tony Fotheringham looked at the other
with surprise, which was hardly complimentary.


Well," he said, with some hesitation, k * it

you are a friend of Archie, of course — well,
there's Mrs. Dormer for one, and there's good
old Hickory for another — Sir Yilliers Hickory,
you know — and Mrs. Chauncey, and me, and

Lenny "

Mr. Beck, who had received each name
with a little nod, here interrupted to ask who
Lenny was ; and hearing that it was Leonard
Tale, he asked again with keener interest if
it was the Leonard Yale about whom there
had been a story.

It was hushed up," he said ; " yes ; kept
with some difficulty from the press."

Oh, that was last year," said Tony.

Quite true," said Mr. Beck ; " no further
public interest." After a moment he added,
And Lady Jane Lock is of the party with
a daughter ? "

Yes," said Tony.

Is a marriage probable ? "

Can't say," said Tony.

Mr. Beck wagged his head at him with a
knowing manner.

Is that all the party ? " he asked, peering
keenly at Mr. Fotheringham.

That was all," said Tony ; " but now
there's old Hackbut and Mr. Palfrey"

"Hah!" cried out Mr. Beck with his
highest note.

"What's the matter ?" asked Tony rather
crossly.

And Lord Lorrilaire ? " asked Mr. Beck ;
what are his politics now ? "
Don't know," said Tony.
You don't know ! " echoed the other ;
oh ! " He shook his head archly. " You
are very deep," he said. "There's a Tory
meeting at Lands tone this week : does Lord
Lorrilaire take part ? "

Don't know," said Tony.
"Then after all," said Mr. Beck, as if to
himself, "after all Lord Lorrilaire is not a
Conservative. ''

"Oh yes, he is," said Tony; "all decent
chaps are."

Perhaps I am an indecent chap," said

Mr. Beck — " most interesting ! Now that
exercise of yours ? Would you repeat it
once for me ? "

This request at once softened the heart of
Tony and lulled to sleep his incipient suspicions.
He began solemnly to rise and fall
again arid to accompany the movement with
his mystic numbers. Suddenly he stopped
short ; something in the motions had brought
back all his doubts. " I say," he said, " what
have you been pumping me for ? It's all
private, you know."

Nothing is private nowadays," said Mr.
Beck, smiling, and with soft emphasis.

Oh, but I say," said Tony, with a look as
if he would collar him.

I will come without a struggle," said Mr.
Beck, setting out briskly again towards the
house.

Oh, but, you know," said Tony ; " what
are you going to do ? "

I am going to see Lord Lorrilaire."

Yes ; but what do you want with him ? "

I want to save him."
"Eh!"

To save him. I am Beck." He stood
still on the road and faced Tony. " I am
Beck," lie repeated.

Good old Beck ! " murmured Tony under
his breath ; but as he continued to stare with
the same amazement, the other young man
said again with his mild emphasis —

I am Beck, of the Rising Sun."

Do you keep a public?" asked Tony, still
wondering.

"Keep a public? Hah! Ho, ho, hah!
Yes, by Heaven, I do ! That is what I do.
I keep a public, the great British public ; and
I keep them straight. Is it possible that you
do not know the Rising Sun — the rising
journal — the most influential (mark the
word !) circulation in the world ? I'll put
you in it — with a sketch — here you are ! "

During Tony's repetition of his performance
Radley Beck had been busy with his
note-book, and he now displayed to the eyes

of the astonished youth a lively sketch of a
figure with bent knees, done with a few
strokes of the pencil, and some notes added
by the same instrument. " Modern master
morning worship of goddess Hygeia —
Ninety-nine — the mystic number and the
expanded lung."

Oh, by George ! but " began Tony.

My other notes," continued Mr. Beck —
here they are — Approaching marriage."

But I never said there would be a
marriage," cried Tony.

It doesn't matter," said Beck ; wi it brings
the matter to a point ; it makes or mars. I
am a nineteenth-century Providence. And
it makes a paragraph too, and its contradiction
makes another."

Good old Beck ! " murmured Tony again,
with rising wonder.

They had begun again to move quickly
towards the house, and Tony, without thinking,
led the way towards the window of his
room and began to enter. Mr. Beck watched

him with interest, and no sooner had his
leader got in, than he followed him nimbly
over the window-sill.]

A nice room," said Mr. Beck, when he
had entered ; " a hath ? H — in — m ! "

He looked at it with interest.

It's for me," said Tony anxiously.

"All right!" said Beck cheerfully; "I
don't want it. But look sharp ; and, when
you have done, I'll put myself to right

He seated himself easily on Tony's bed,
and regarded him critically with his head on
one side and his unruly forelock touching his
thin black eyebrows.

Tony was much embarrassed. In spite of
his experience of the world, he was essentially
a modest boy, and he blushed at the thought
of taking his bath under the aggressive! v
observant eyes of this stranger. What if he
were to see an account of his skin or figure
in a number of the Rising Sun, or even a
rude sketch of himself, sponge in hand ? On
the other hand, to make a fuss about the

attendance of this person seemed to him
absurd. He looked from his bath to his bed
and back again with comical discomposure.

Precisely," said the keen-eyed stranger ;
I see ; I will walk up and down on the
terrace."

He slipped out of the window in a moment ;
but Tony was hardly out of his bath before
his visitor was in again, and again seated on
the bed. Tony was annoyed, and the more
annoyed to feel himself blushing.

You must forgive me," said Beck crisply ;
it is such a chance to study the toilet of a
master."

But I ain't a master," said Tony, hurrying
himself into some garments.

That is what they all say," said Beck ;
that is the sign of the master. If you
were not one, you would be flattered at being
called a master — but those flannel underclothes
? Surely they are peculiar."

Oh yes," said Tony, zeal triumphing over
modesty ; " they're medicated."

Whose patent ? " asked Beck, and he
made some rapid notes of Mr. Fotheringham's
answers, purposing in some spare hour to
interview the ingenious patentee. Then the
soap caught his eye, and he made a note of
that and of the valuable properties which
Mr. Fotheringham ascribed to it. Indeed,
nothing escaped him : he tried the springs of
the bed while he sat on it, and then crept
under it to examine its mechanism from
below. For very hurry Tony was slower
than usual in his dressing. He felt as if all
the furniture, his very clothes and even himself,
were about to be put up to auction ; and,
when at last he was dressed, he escaped with
intense relief, though he left the stranger
nimbly tripping about his room and using his
favourite hair-brushes.

CHAPTER XIV.

No sooner had Tony escaped from the inquiring
stranger than he made haste to find
his host and to warn him of his extraordinary
visitor.

Never saw such a chap in my life," he
said ; but when Archie heard that the newcomer
was Beck, he was vastly delighted, and
laughed aloud for joy. That Beck should
have hit on Fotheringham seemed to him a
delightful chance, and full of humorous suggestions
; and he knew in a moment, moreover,
the cause of Beck's coming, and that
seemed to him a joke even more amusing.

lie's all right," he said ; " he was a friend
of mine at Oxford ; at least, we used to have
tremendous discussions. And now he is subeditor
of a brand-new paper, which is to show

up everybody for his good and put everything
to rights for the good of the universe.
You never saw such a fellow, Tony ? No,
I'll bet you didn't. He used to tell n
Oxford that his hat covered half the cleverness
in England."

Good old Beck ! " cried Tony cheerfully.
After a minute he added thoughtfully, " His
hat's a doosid sight too big for him."

Ah, but you see, his head grows so quick."
said Archie; " the hat will fit him before
night."

Oh, that's nonsense, you know," said
Tony, wagging his close-cropped head wisely.

Archie was going at once to greet his
former friend in Tony's room ; but T
assured him that he would interrupt Mr.
Beck's toilet. They therefore went straight
to breakfast ; and, when they entered the
breakfast-room, there was Mr. Radley Beck
with his back to the fire and his head on one
side, looking wiser than a magpie. His toilet
had not detained him lorna.

The rest of the guests assembled at Langley
Castle were just settling* themselves down to
breakfast, some seated, others standing and
inspecting the dishes on the side-table, but
all obviously conscious of the presence of the
remarkable stranger, who stood silent and
smiling, and enchanted with the certainty
that he was producing his effect. He loved
to impress. He stood still silent and smiling,
when Archie came in, and did not go forward
to meet him. He only looked at him, as if
he would instantly see through him without
an effort.

Well, Becky," said Archie, coming to
him and shaking his limp hand heartily,
this is capital ! "

I hope so," said Beck, breaking his impressive
silence with speech like a bird's
chirping ; " I had an hour or two to spare,
and I came to say something to you."

"Out with it, then," said Archie; " or
have your breakfast first ; " and he propelled
Mr. Beck towards the table, introducing him

VOL. I. y

by name, as he did so, to his other guests.
Mr. Beck gave little bows and quick glances
to right and left, and there was a general
movement of interest ; but the little gentleman
would have been genuinely surprised,
had he known that there was only one p<
present, besides his host, to whom his name
suggested anything at all. This person was
Mr. Palfrey, who after a good look rose
from his chair and offered his large white
hand with a bland smile of comradeship,
while he said, as if in search of complete

certainty, " Mr. Beck, of the " and here

he coughed, for he could not remember the
name of the particular organ of public opinion
with which the new-comer was connected.

Yes," said Mr. Beck, looking side
and upwards at the eminent politician ; ";
Mr. Palfrey, I am Beck, of the Rising Sun."

"I am delighted to meet you at last," said
Mr. Palfrey; "I need not say that I 1.
long known you in print."

Mr. Beck emitted a slight purring noise.

Young Lord Lorrilaire was delighted by
the coming of this old acquaintance. He had
guessed in a moment that Beck, hearing of
the arrival of Lord Hackbut and Mr. Palfrey,
had started on the instant to prevent him
from being captured by the Conservative
party. It was so like Beck. Archie foresaw
much amusement in eluding both Lord Hack-but
and Mr. Beck. It was a joke which
suited his present humour ; and there was
only one person with whom he would share
it. He seized the first chance of speaking to
Dora alone, and was made even more happy
by her ready sympathy. Indeed, Dora was
content with the whole aspect of the game.
Elizabeth still kept her room, though her
mother stated curtly and with ill-concealed
chagrin that there was nothing the matter
will her. Lady Jane Lock's grimness was
itself strong evidence that Dora's side was
winning ; and Lady Jane seemed to think it
hardly worth while, even in answer to her
host's questions, to try to make her child's

indisposition interesting. The truth is, that
Lady Jane was astounded by Elizabeth's
obstinacy, and half inclined to say that she
would not try to do a mother's duty to a
daughter so ungrateful. She was very red and
very upright ; and she would allow nothing
but arrowroot and nourishment of a like kind
to be sent up to Elizabeth, who was a young
lady of most healthy appetite ; but, though
she maintained an appearance of firmness, she
was evidently despondent. And so Dora
Rutherford was well content, seeing that the
dangerous girl was sulking, as she said, in
her room, and that Archie for his part showed
no depression of spirits. And so, too, she-listened
with rising pleasure to Archie's quick
sketch of the intentions of his political friends.
It all suited her game admirably well. The
young man's mind would be busy with politics
for that day at least ; and therein was the
day's safety. She encouraged him to amuse
himself by dexterous evasions, and foresaw
amusement for herself, too, in the sight o^ the

sport and in the society of these interesting-men.


Lord Hackbut did not appear at breakfast ;
but when he came downstairs he at once
asked for Lord Lorrilaire ; and for a staunch
and uncompromising supporter of the Establishment,
he showed a most strange annoyance
at hearing that his young host had gone
to church. " What did he go there for ? " he
said with a growl, which may have been an
oath. He was in a somewhat fiery humour,
not certain that there was not a threatening
of gout. At the sight of Mr. Beck regarding
him with his jackdaw air and his mysterious
smile, he uttered another growl, which may
have been a greeting, turned his back and
shut himself for the morning in the smoking-room,
of which he locked the door. He pretended
to be deaf, when Beck soon afterwards
came and shook the handle.

Returning from church, Archie saw Beck
awaiting him on the terrace and Lord Hack-but's
man at the front door. Beck came

hurrying, but had scarcely opened his mouth,
when the servant presented Lord Hackbut's
compliments and said that his lordship would
take it as a kindness if his lordship would
come and see his lordship in the smoking-room.
With cheerful friendliness and an air
of pleasing all parties, Archie passed his arm
through Beck's, and with a nod to Dora, led
his friend away to the smoking-room. He
talked, as he led him, with a fine flow of
words ; and when they were now close to the
door of the smoking-room, he made a remark
which he knew to be what he called a sure
draw for Beck. So they entered the room
both talking at once ; and Archie, shaking
hands with Lord Hackbut, appealed to him
to judge between them. The old lord remained
silent, and looked at Mr. Beck with
a very obvious intention ; and Radley Beck
for his part hung his head on on side, smiled
and remained. Archie, ignoring the desire
of each, continued to chatter for a few
minutes, and then seeming to remember

suddenly a forgotten duty, uttered some words
of apology as he fled, shut the door behind
him, and left his two pursuers together.

At luncheon both Lord Hackbut and Mr.
Beck appeared ; but neither of them took part
in the general conversation. Only, as the
meal drew to a close, the old lord filled a
pause by asking incisively across the table —
Mr. Peek, do you go back to town to-day ? "
And, as the other gentleman smiled and
murmured " Beck," he added, " I hear that
you brought no luggage with you,"

Oh, never mind that," cried Archie to
Beck, for he, like everybody else, had stopped
to listen ; " I am sure Tony will lend you any
amount of clothes."

Tony turned a face of amazement and
comical indignation on his friend ; and Beck
began to shake his head.

I am bound to be back to-night," he said,
moving his little shoulders as if he wort;
suddenly reminded of the weight of the
world.

But at least you'll stay to dinner," said
Archie ; "lam sure that Tony "

Oh, I say," said Tony ; " yes, of course ; I
should be awfully glad," he added, " but
really and truly I've only one dress suit, you
know."

Nevertheless Archie insisted that Mr. Beck
should return to the office of the Rising
by the latest train ; and Mrs. Dormer's permission
having been asked and obtained, it
was settled that the sub-editor should dine in
his morning clothes.

It now seemed as if Lord Hackbut had
made up his mind to defer operations until
after the departure of the irritating little
man, whose presence increased the likelihood
of an attack of gout, for, when luncheon was
done, he betook himself again to solitude and
an old volume of " Daily's Magazine," and
made no further attempt to secure an interview
with his host.

Beck, on the contrary, aware that his time
was short, came straight to Lord Lorrilaire

and said, without preamble, that he had
come for a short talk and must have it.
Archie laughed and did not refuse ; but heled
Mr. Beck with other of his guests through
all the gardens and hot-houses, and showed
him every horse in the stables, before he
would allow him to begin the confidential
talk; and when he did allow him to begin,
he displayed the most provoking flippancy,
making paradoxical excuses for the Conservative
party, maintaining that it was more
liberal than the Liberal, and arguing that it
was absurd of the Rising Sun, or any other
organ or organist, to care a jot whether he,
Lord Lorrilaire, enrolled himself with " the
Ins" or "the Outs." Finally he attacked
Beck with great good-humour, reminding
him that he used to be an avowed disciple of
Mazzini, and asking him with what eyes the
great Italian patriot, the preacher of the
highest motives in political affairs, would
regard the methods and manners of the new
catch-penny or catch-halfpenny journal is id.

Radley Beck shook his head but kept his
temper, and made a few neat remarks in
defence of his business ; but he gained no
knowledge whatever of Lord Lorrila
present position or future intention

When the party met in the drawing-room
before dinner, Archie found an opportunity
and told Dora Rutherford of the success
his day ; but Dora was not so sure that his
success was final. " Look ! " she said, directing
his attention first to Lord Hackbut and
then to Mr. Beck ; " neither of them looks
a bit crestfallen ; they are both as pleased as
Punch."

That's because it's time for dinner." said
Archie, and he went away smiling to offer
his arm to Lady Jane Lock, and to ask after
her daughter.

When they entered the dining-room, Dora
found with keen pleasure that her place was
between Lord Hackbut and Mr. Beck, who
had taken her in. She found, as she had
guessed, that both men were in great good-humour,

and she promptly set herself the task
of increasing their amiability. She knew by
instinct that this was to be done by listening
with intelligence and charm. Of the two
men Lord Hackbut was by far the more
attentive to his dinner ; and Mr. Beck, whose
favourite food and drink were bloaters and
soda-water, was able to favour his charming
neighbour with a little series of his choicest
remarks. Naturally the first topic was the
surprising fortune of Lord Lorrilaire, and
Mr. Beck spoke neatly and tersely of the
Archie Kayner of their Oxford days. Dora
tried to draw from him his opinion of the
transformed Lord Lorrilaire ; but he slipped
over the subject with a few general remarks.
What he needs now," he said, " is advertisement.
He should hand himself over to me.
With his wealth and name he only needs to
be forced on the attention of the public, and
there he is — or rather where isn't he ? To
blush unseen is an anachronism — it is contrary
to the spirit of Democracy. Even the

modest primrose has come out from the
river's him ; it is a hedge, a power ; it is
a great deal more than a primrose"'

Dora murmured her doubt whether Archie
would ever care to become prominent, and
asked with an enchanting deference " if perhaps
Archie would not do well to content
himself with the duties and pleasures of a
country gentleman." The sub-editor scouted
the idea of a man of ability contenting himself
with pottering about his property and
riding after a fox. " All out of date," he
said. " He must accept the democracy and
exterminate the fox."

Dora gave a little cry of horror.

Horses are an anachronism," said Beck,
at least as a means of locomotion. They will
be the food of the democracy. To kill your
own food for fun is atrocious in these days.
Archie must give up the monotonous pheasant,
and let the children go nutting in his woods."

And mustn't a country gentleman shoot
or ride any more ? " asked Dora.

Certainly, if he wish to," said Mr. Beck,
smiling upon the fair questioner ; " he can
shoot glass balls and ride a tricycle."

Oh ! " cried Dora ; and " What's that ? "
asked Lord Hackbut, turning towards her
with his most amiable grin.

Mr. Beck says that the democracy will
eat horses," she said.

I should not wonder," said the old lord,
who was as famous for his knowledge of
horses as of the political situation; " and asses
too," he added, with a most carnivorous grin.

Mr. Beck was enchanted by the fair lady,
who listened to him with so keen an interest.
Her manner of listening gave him a higher
opinion of her cleverness than if she had
dazed him with epigrams, and increased also
with every moment his admiration of her
beauty. He pressed upon her the names of
his favourite photographers, and shook his
head gravely at her contempt of a purely
chemical notoriety.

"It is out of date," he said; "my dear

lady ; it is an anachronism, this absurd fear
of the public, the generous, warm-hearted,
inquisitive, enormous public. The Democracy
wants beauty in the shop-windows. Be
photographed ! let me draw attention to you
■ — a line — a paragraph. Permit the public
to be interested in your personality."

He eyed her askance like a snake-charmer ;
but Dora would only laugh and shake her
head in her turn.

Write for me too," he said to her, when
the moment had come for the ladies to go.
An occasional paragraph or sketch — ' The
world as seen by a woman of fashion ! 'sit
would be enormous."

"Oh no! rather small, I think."
Dora, as she moved towards the door.

END OF VOL. I.

LONDON: PRINTED BY WHXIAM (JLOWM LHD Bon, UMITKP,
BTAXTOBD BT&SBT Am (making Ci:

I

Comedy op

A CqutfPRy HoifsB

Julian Sti/rgis

mia

BO

OF THE
U N I Vers City
Of ILLINOIS

S2,3

St 97c

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/comedyofcountryh02stur

II. a

T

OF

A Country HOUSE.

BY

JULIAN Surges,

AUTHOR OF
Thraldom," "JOHN Madmen," 

TWO VOLUMES,
VOL. II.

LONDON:
JOHN Murray, ALBEMARLE STREET.

1889.

-w

PRINTED BY WILLIAM Clowns AND SONS, LIMITED,

Stafford STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

St 7^

Comedy or A Country HOUSE.

CHAPTER I.

There was no doubt that Lord Sackbut had
dined well ; he seemed to show it in every
crease of his face and of his clothing. lie
had clean forgotten the threatening gout ; he
felt expansive ; he put a great arm on the
back of his chair and looked down the table
at Sir Yilliers Hickory.

Yilliers," he said, *' this is good wine. It
is too good for these boys."

It belongs to one of them," said Sir
Yilliers, drily.

So it does, by George ! " said Lord Hack-but,
gazing upon Archie ; " what luck the
boy has ! To be young and to have such

VOL. II. B

wine to drink ; to be young and to have as
many horses as he wants ; and coverts too,
where foxes and pheasants breed peacefully
side by side, begad ! as in the Golden Age.
Lorrilaire, I drink your health ! I had
nearly advised you to leave politics to
Palfrey, and to breed horses — not to eat,
Mr. Peek." He displayed the broken tooth
in a grin of contentment.

Beck," murmured Beck, mildly persistent.
Archie laughed, but felt uncomfortable ;
he did not like to be the topic of conversation.


He has got the best house in the county,"
continued Lord Hackbut, '* and the best
stables and the best gardens, and — and the

best cook, and "

The best cream," said Tony Bothering
wagging his head with decision.
The best what ? " cried out the old lord.
'•' Cream," said Tony ; '' oh ! it's tremendously
important ; it's so good for the nerves,
you know."

Nerves ! " growled Lord Hackbut ; " men
don't have nerves."

We've all got 'em," said Tony, '^ except
Archie. Lenny's awfully bad with 'em."

Eh ? what ? " said Leonard Yale, starting
at the sound of his name. He had been
absorbing claret silently, and thinking of
other things.

Look at that," said Tony, triumphantly.
Good old Lenny ! Did you see him jump ? "

It is a nervous age," said Radley Beck,
sententiously.

Were we nervous, Yilliers ? " asked Lord
Hackbut with a growl of scorn. " These
boys are a puny race, and fit to think of
nothing; but their digestion."

"It is a tremendously important thing to
think about," said Tony, with raised eyebrows.


We didn't know we had digestions."

Ah ! we know we've got 'em," said Tony
" at least, I mean we know we haven't
got em.

'' Very neat, Mr. Tony," said Beck, " very
neat indeed ! I must make use of that."

You ought to drink," shouted Lord
Hackbut, drowning the last words of Mr.
Beck ; '^ drink is what you want. Wine like
this would make men of you, if anything
could. Everything that's worth anything
has gone out with drink. Statesmanship has
gone out with drink. Strip Palfrey, and you
will find a blue ribbon on him somewhere."

It was now Mr. Palfrey's turn to start.
He caught Beck's look of keen inquiry, and
shook his head with a smile which seemed to
say that everybody made allowances for
^' dear old Hackbut ! " It was a smile which
Mr. Palfrey was obliged to have always ready
when he was in the society of '^ dear old
Hackbut."

And as for you boys, by George ! " said
Lord Hackbut, " I do believe that you drink
nothing but lemon and soda. Your blood is
lemon and soda."

Mr. Palfrey led the general laughter ; but

Archie expostulated. " We ain't so bad as
that," he said ; " here's Tony."

Oh, I say, don't set him on me," said
Tony.

Tony is as strong as a house," said
Archie.

Mr. Tony is very well ribbed up," said
Beck, " if I may be allowed the expression."
Tony blushed ; he felt the penetrating eyes of
the little sub-editor, and the old lord glowering
upon him with terrific eyebrows. " Doubtless,"
said the latter grimly, " he is as strong
as they build houses nowadays."

Capital ! capital ! " murmured Beck ;
'^ you must let me make use of that."

Then you must pay me for it," said Lord
Hackbut, turning upon him, " a penny a line
and sixpence for myself."

You would be cheap at the price," chirped
Beck with animation.

*^ Or a shilling, because I'm a lord," said
Hackbut ; " it's a commercial age. And you
ought to drink too, Mr. Sub-editor ; you ought

to drink something better than printers-ink
and water. Drink must come in again.
Look at these boys ! They are all grudging
me my bottle of claret because they want to
begin pulling at their rubbishy chopped-straw
in paper. Drink, you young dogs, and
we'll have another bottle ! That fellow looks
as if it would do him good. Here you, Mr.
What's-yer-name Vale, fill your glass and
drink, as your fathers drank, to Wine and
Women."

Leonard, who had been taking but little
notice of the old lord's talk, smiled responsive
at this direct invitation. He put his unopened
cigarette-case back into his pocket,
and filled his glass again, "Women and
Wine ! " he said and drank.

No, no ! " cried out Lord Hackbut ; " Wine
and Women ! That is the order of merit —
and both between twenty and thirty years
old ! "

Lord Hackbut is very shocking, Mr.
Palfrey," said Beck, smiling sweetly across

the table ; " it is lucky that we know our age,
and know it to be one of progressive temperance.
After all, it is an age of progress."

An age of humbug ! " shouted Lord
Hackbut; *ewe are living in an age of
decadence, I tell you ; and we pretend not to
know it. There's not a feature wanting,
though I can't mention the worst of 'em.
We are all Romans of the worst period, given
up to luxury and effeminacy, and caring for
nothing but money. Courage is so out of
fashion that we boast of cowardice. We care
no more for beauty in art, but only for a
brutal realism. Sport has lost its manliness,
and is a matter of pigeons from a trap, or a
mountain of crushed pheasants to sell to your
own tradesman. Religion is coming down
to jugglers, and table-turnings and philandering
with religions brought, like the rites of
Isis, from the East ; and as for patriotism, it
is turned on, by George ! like beer, at election
times, or worked like a mechanical doll by
wire-pullers ! What is our foreign policy

except to sit trembling and trying to think
we aren't afraid of the irruption of barbarians
from the North ? I tell you it is an age of
humbug and long-winded talk. Why, if we
were not in the plain decadence, Palfrey
would be leading a colony to West Australia,
instead of sitting here with an undigested
speech in his stomach. There is not an ounce
of manliness in the country ; and as for the
women "

Here he paused, and only Tony was heard
murmuring, almost inaudibly, " Good old
Hackbut ! "

Oh," said Mr. Beck sweetly ; " oh, spare
the gentle sex ! "

The gentle sex ! " cried out the old lord
with his most savage grin. " Nothing draws
your gentle sex like a child hanging by its
toe-nails to the high trapeze, or the chance of
a wounded pigeon in their laps. If there
were a Gladiator fight in the Albert Hall
next season, and the beaten man went down,
the women would be ready with their little

thumbs ; they'd want his blood. Yes, my
young friends, you all have the honour of
belonging to one of the most corrupt generations
of the human race. To find your equal
one must go back to the worst times of the
Roman Empire, and look devilish close then."

'^ I always thought the Romans were a bad
lot," said Tony, wagging his head.

"And yet," said Mr. Beck, slily, "we
have learned something — something since
those days."

Yes," growled Lord Hackbut, " the use
of dynamite. And now," he continued after
a minute, " smoke and be — look at that
young Yale there," he cried interrupting
himself ; " do you mean to say that he
would be possible in any other age ? " The
old lord grinned on Lenny, who smiled without
indignation in reply, and lighted his
cigarette.

Oh, Lord Hackbut ! " said Mr. Beck, expostulating.


And you too, Mr. Peek," cried Lord

Hackbut, who was running a muck with keen
enjoyment, " you would be impossible in any
but a corrupt age. What do you say,
Lorrilaire ? I don't know how bad you are ;
but you agree with me ? "

Not I," said Archie.

'' That's flat, any way," said Lord Hackbut,
brought to a sudden stand, and grinning not
unkindly.

*' If I thought we were as bad as that," said
Mr. Beck, after a pause, " I should not care
to live."

'^ There you make another mistake," said
Lord Hackbut, turning upon him ; " it's uncommon
amusing to live in an age of decadence.
You see the funniest sights, and
you get every conceivable luxury, and you
die before the irruption of the barbarians."

But seriously. Lord Hackbut," said Beck
sweetly, " don't you think that the Democracy
"

Democracy be damned ! " said Lord
Hackbut.

After this Lord Hackbut, who had had
enough of his wild career, fell into a refreshing
silence ; and presently, as the air was
becoming fragrant with the smoke of
cigarettes a footman entered to say that the
brougham was at the door.

Radley Beck slipped at once from his chair
and looked at his watch. He said goodbye
to Lord Hackbut with a pressing
manner. " I really do wish," he said softly,
that you would write me some letters —
proofs of the Decadence, or some such
title."

Penny a line are my terms," 'grumbled
the old lord in answer. "Go home and wind
up your Rising Sin, and bring along the
Golden Age."

Mr. Palfrey got up to say good-bye to
the sub-editor ; and Archie went with him
to the front-door and insisted on lending him
an ulster which was some sizes too big for
him. With his foot on the step of the
carriage, Beck took Archie's hand and held

it a minute, and said with soft insistence,
I shall save you in spite of yourself."

All right ! " said Archie ; and the
brougham rolled quickly away.

It seemed as if Lord Hackbut had talked
too much. For the rest of that evening he
said scarcely an audible word, though an
attentive ear might have heard occasional
muttering as of a storm passing away.

What do you have such a friend as that
Peek for ? " he asked Archie, as he took his
bed-room candle.

Oh, he's not a bad chap," said Archie.

He's a little cad ! " said the old lord.

Oh no ; I don't think so," said Archie.

The old lord looked at him again, as if he
were surprised at his daring to differ from
him. " You have your own opinions, it
seems," he said, and went muttering and
chuckling up the stairs.

On the next morning Archie expected a
more serious conversation with Lord Hackbut,
and had made up his mind to submit to it

with patience and respect ; but, though the
old lord stared at him at breakfast, and said
something about appealing from Philip drunk
to Philip sober, which may have referred to
his extravagant talk of the day before, and
to a purpose of more temperate discussion, he
allowed the hours to pass without a further
sign. Only later in the day, when Archie,
roaming aimlessly about his extensive ,
which was still so strange to him,
wandered into the library, he found Lord
Hackbut there with Mr. Palfrey and Sir
Yilliers Hickory. They were all so much
interested in their conversation that they did
not notice him for a moment ; and, when they
saw him, they all smiled upon him divers
smiles, but pursued their subject no further
until he left them.

And so this Monday passed away uneventful,
a grey doubtful day, and distinguished
by a certain dulness which seemed to oppress
the whole party, even the young host himself.
The novel amusement of abandoning himself

to the chances of life was beginning to pall
upon him. The desire to will something for
himself was stirring again, and made him
restless ; and he was annoyed at the same
time to find that there was nothing for which
he cared enough, on that day at least, to
make him purpose the attainment of it. He
was sick of a slight malady of real indifference,
which was unlike, and far less pleasant
than the letting himself drift with a lively
curiosity ; he told himself that he was sick,
and hoped that it would pass with the day.
And, under all, the boyish vagabond was
awake in him again ; and, as he wandered
from room to room of his spacious abode, he
was bored with heavy curtains and thick
noiseless carpets, which seemed the adjuncts
to a padded listless life ; and his fancy went
a-roving on upland paths, on broad hill-sides,
by hanging woods and folded sheep, or
tramping on the good high road from country
loneliness to the strange city and to the
crowded quays whence ships went sailing to

every corner of the world. It seemed better
to be a gipsy pedlar than the lord of broad
acres, to wander at his will than to shield to
a round of dull and doubtful duties which
others found for him. However, he must
stay and play the host a while, and only his
fancy might go roving.

The only event of the day which was
worthy of the name was the reappearance of
Miss Lock ; and even this excited the most
languid interest. Dora Rutherford promptly
roused herself to attention ; but, noting with
satisfaction the apparent indifference of Archie,
she yielded again to the prevailing calm.
More than once in the course of the day she
felt an inclination to scream, but restrained
it ; and, when the society of the other women
became intolerable, she shut herself in her
room and wrote a long letter to her husband.
Then she felt better, and slipped out of the
house for a solitary walk, which probably
would have restored her to her wonted state
had she not encountered at the very door

Lady Jane Lock accoutred for her daily
constitutional, who annexed her without more
ado, and marched her for the due number of
miles, talking to her and at her with unflagging
resolution.

Dora submitted with a meekness which
surprised herself, and made her think that
she was going to be ill ; she could find no
comfort but in the fact that she had been a
good girl and had written a nice letter to her
husband. She felt so meek, that she was
inclined to let slip the destinies of all young
men whose lives she had determined to
arrange for them, to return humbly to her
home, and to limit her abilities to varying
the daily dinners.

The world became somewhat gayer at
dinner-time, though a short return of gloom
was caused by some comments of Lord
Hackbut, which were more audible than he
knew. Becoming aware of the presence of
Elizabeth Lock, he remarked to Mrs. Chauncey
that women with daughters to marry were

lost to all sense of decency, and a moment
later, that he hated a girl in a country house,
for it stopped all conversation. Of those
who heard these opinions, the only one who
showed no embarrassment was Elizabeth herself.
She looked at Lord Hackbut with a
slow wonder, in which contempt was hardly
indicated ; and she looked so handsome, that
the old lord, regarding her with more attention,
expressed his approval of her beauty
with the same unintentional distinctness with
which he had regretted her appearance. It
was one of his deaf days, on which he was
apt to surprise the world with comments
more than usually candid ; but there were
some who maintained that this deafness was
maliciously assumed.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER 11.

The restlessness of young Lord Lorrilaire did
not pass with the day. When he had said
good night to his latest guest and was alone
in his room, he felt hot, and opened his
window wide to view the boundless world of
out-of-doors. Out-of-doors had a great charm
for Archie ; and, as he looked now at the
wide country, which lay mystical under a.
rising moon, his fancy went beyond his own
park palings, beyond his farms and fields,
out on to the common road which had led so
many million feet from marvel to marvel.
He thought of the untrodden dazzling tops
of the Rocky Mountains, and felt his face
tingle with their rarest air ; but even the
next parish offered freedom and adventure.
Even in the next parish he would be out of

the toils which he fancied closing on him.
His place seemed a burden, and politics, and
marriage. Surely his boyhood was not ended
yet, or need not be. Surely one more spring
might set his heart longing for pilgrimage,
as men's hearts longed in Chaucer's smokeless
Norland, and he mio-ht tread the road with

O ' CD

light pockets, and whistle in the presence of
the foot-pad.

Archie was discontented. He thought of
the three gentlemen whom he classed all
together as old, and whom he had interrupted
in the library. What had they been plotting ?
What leading-string had they been making
for his wild colt-hood ; he was inclined to
kick. And he thought of Lady Jane Lock,
too, with a certain indignation. It was not
for himself that he was indignant with this
admirable woman, but because her determined
prosaic image came between him and another.
She withered all the poetry which was in
him ; she was an embodiment of settlements
and things, and of all which the world, that

world which to the boy staring at moonlight
seemed shallow jabbering and preposterous,
said every day of love and marriage. Some
airy hidden fancies of his heart fell dead at
the intrusive thought of Lady Jane. Archie
felt, instead of the placidity which he had
expected to return to him with night, an
increase of disquiet. It was as if some sprite
had caught him. He was impelled, as it
were, to be out and away, if it were only
into his own coverts. The old poaching song-came
unbidden to his lips ; it was a shining
night and the season of year ; the idea of
poaching in his own wood and the chance of
being hunted by his own keeper were almost
irresistible. He looked and longed ; but at
last he refrained, and closed the window.
Perhaps he could not have made this great
renunciation, had he not made up his mind
that on the next day he would do something.
He would be away from his oppressive castle
all day long. He would rise early and be off
before his guests were stirring. He would

drive himself over to Langstone, catch the
early train to London, and have a talk with
Tom Rutherford. He had not known Tom
Rutherford until he had married Dora ; and
vet of all his friends he was the one to whom
he turned most readily and with the surest
trust when he wanted advice. He wanted
advice now ; he did not wish to be swallowed
alive ; and even if Rutherford could not help
him, a day, a whole blue day, would be his
with all its possibilities, and at least sixteen
hours in which he could think for himself.
Soothed by this purpose of early flight, he
lay warm in bed and promptly fell into a
deep and happy sleep.

Among other gifts, Archie had that of
waking when he meant to wake ; and so,
when morning came, he opened his sleepy
eyes at the precise hour. He bestirred himself
and got the water for his own bath, and
he did not ring his bell until he was nearly
dressed. Then he summoned his astonished
man, and sent him to order some breakfast

for him at once and the dog-cart soon after.
When he had breakfasted and was driving
himself through the keen air, he felt a great
elation ; he was adrift no more ; he felt himself
a man with a man's will ; he was bound
to will something before night. Nevertheless
he certainly had not left his boyhood behind
him ; the cart was well hung and the horse a
good goer, and, as he sent him along the
good smooth road, he felt as happy as a lord.
After all he was one.

A great surprise awaited him at Langstone.
As Archie was driving quickly towards the
town, a local bill-sticker was employed in
pasting fine large bills on all vacant hoardings
and other suitable places. He, too, had risen
early ; and already the waking town was gay
with many posters, when Lord Lorrilaire
approached its outskirts. Just where the
country faded into the town, the first bill
posted on a paling met the driver's eye. The
paling was uneven and the bill distorted, but
Archie saw the name of Mr. Palfrey, and

knew that this was a notice of the coming
great Conservative meeting. But the strange
thing was that when he had passed this
notice by, Archie found that he had an
impression of having seen his own name. It
was impossible, he thought, and yet he looked
with startled curiosity for the next bill. He
had not long to wait ; here was a hoarding
with half a dozen of them, and half a dozen
copies of his own name stared back at young
lord Lorrilaire. He had pulled his horse up
short, and sat staring. He could not read it
otherwise. It was announced that the Rt.
Hon. Mr. Palfrey, M.P., would speak to the
assembled Conservatives of Langstone, and
in letters almost equally impressive it was
asserted that the chair would be taken by
Lord Lorrilaire.

Archie burst out laughing. He was by no
means pleased, and was surprised by his own
laughter ; but it was thus that his thronging
emotions expressed themselves ; they exploded
in laughter. Then he remembered the

decorous groom, who was sitting at his back
with stiff collar and folded arms, and who
only allowed himself to read the bills out of
the corner of his eye ; this checked his
laughter. He said to himself with decision
that this was too bad of his uncle Yilliers.
He had consented cheerfully to receive Mr.
Palfrey as his guest ; but not a word had
been said to him about even attending this
much-advertised meeting. And here he found
himself announced to the universe, or to such
part of the universe as it might concern, as
chairman, president, patron — ticketed for ever
and ever, for it seemed to him to amount to
this, as the leading Tory of the countryside.
He glanced forward up the street, which was
still . almost empty, and saw the bill-sticker
moving to a new point of vantage ; he started
his horse at the sight, half-meaning at the
moment to rob him of his wares, but, when
he came to him, and had called him he did
not know what to say. He put down his
hand for a bill and read it slowly through ;

and when the man looked as if he expected
its return, Archie told him curtly who he
was, folded the bill and put it in the inner
pocket of his great-coat. He felt himself
blush, as he named himself, and knew that he
blushed for this new publicity, this wide-cast
advertisement. He was indignant with those
old rogues at home, who had arranged this
plan : his hand was on the rein to turn the
horse and urge him back with even greater
speed, and his lips were beginning to mutter
the protest, which he would address to his
uncle, and the excuses which he would offer
to Mr. Palfrey. He knew now why Lord
Hackbut had postponed his confidential talk'
with him ; he laughed again at the thought
of the wise old Hackbut. His hand was on
the rein, but he did not press it. It became
clear to him, thinking quick thoughts, that it
was more than ever good to hurry up to
town and see Tom Rutherford. He thought
that he, if any man, could point to the wise
course in these strange circumstances. With

sudden anxiety lie pulled out his watch and
looked at it ; he had no time to spare ; the
station was at the other end of the town.
Ten minutes later he was in the quick morning
train and speeding to London.

It was among the well-known advantages
of Langley Castle that it stood at a convenient
distance from London, withdrawn in
solitary dignity far beyond the circle of
suburban villas, but not so far withdrawn,
but that certain good trains could do the
journey to or from Langstone in little more
than an hour. After little more than an
hour Archie was in a hansom, and driven
rapidly through the streets to the Rutherford'
house.

(3 y^r^

CHAPTER III.

Tom Rutherford was in his study, but he was
neither reading nor writing ; he was thinking
of his wife. Thoughts of Dora had been
more than usually intrusive ; and at last he
had left his table and stood with his back to
the fire, frowning a little, condemning himself
for weakness, wishing that his wife would
come back to him, determined, not to ask her.
It was one of his fixed rules not to interfere
with his wife's amusements unless he was
sure that he had good reason for such interference
; it was one of his fixed beliefs that
Dora, though she amused herself with the
zeal proper to her years, would always amuse
herself with discretion. If she was happy at
Langley Castle, he would not call her home ;
he hardly confessed to himself that he was

hurt because she did not come uncalled. He
obstinately asserted Dora's right of amusement
; and maintained against himself her
natural right of flitting, while he was chained
to the desk. He had fallen headlong into
love of this bright creature, in part for her
innocent waywardness, her glancing charm ;
and he told himself in the plain English
with which he always spoke to himself and
to others that he would be both brute and
fool if he limited her happy liberty without
sure cause. Thus the rule of his treatment
of her was non-interference. If ever he
should feel that interference were right, he
would act promptly and with decision ; but
there should be no petty meddling with her
wishes. And yet he loved lier, as a man of
strong feelings loves, who has chosen not to
fritter his feelings away but to control them.
He loved her ; and it hurt him that she had
shown no desire yet to come back to him
from this holiday visit. When he married,
he had pictured her always beside him, the

charm and ornament of Iris industrious life,
the Ariel to his toiling Caliban. He told
himself roundly that he had been a fool not
to foresee the truth. To foresee facts a little
less incorrectly than other men was the claim
which he silently made for himself, the reason
which he gave himself for believing that he
would be a more trusty guide than some
others for his contemporaries. And now in
this matter, this most important matter of the
companion of his life, he confessed that lie
had deceived himself, blinded by love like a
schoolboy, as he told himself. This was the
disappointment of his married life;

As he stood with his back to the fire, he
was no bad representative of the race. There
was a lack of grace ; it was strength and
firmness which the face, form, and attitude
suggested. He looked strong and well made
as the solid old-fashioned furniture, the heavy
writing-table and wide book-cases, which he
preferred, and as free from useless decorations.
He had the fine fair skin, too, of the typical

Englishman ; and he could lead a life mainly
sedentary for months at a time without losing
his fresh colour. Such men seem to have
stored up some impossible supply of healthy
air in the days when they excelled on the
river or in the football field, and to refresh
themselves therewith in the office or the
library. Though he was a man of middle
age, he showed no trace of time, unless his
figure was a little more set and the brown
hair a little thinner on the top of his head.
His face was ruddy, his eyes clear and blue,
and his nose aquiline, broad in the bridge, a
little depressed at the point. His square chin
had its firmness emphasized by a deep cleft.
The first impression which he made was of
a man conspicuously clean-looking, and the
next was one of power. As to his temper,
the observer would guess in a moment that
he was amiable, generous, quick to feel anger,
and strong to control it when he chose to
control it. Indeed his openness was striking ;
the most suspicious acquaintance could not

suspect his straiglitforwardness, his plain
dealing.

Planted on his hearth-ruo- and staring at
the carpet, with a slight frown on his broad
forehead and his sensitive lips pressed firmly
together, Tom Rutherford was disturbed by
the entrance of his servant. He looked up
with prompt inquiry, for his man had a
standing order not to come into that room in
the morning without adequate cause. He
flushed as he heard that Lord Lorrilaire was
there ; this arrival was in some sort an
answer to his wishes ; he would hear of
Dora. He had to wait, however, for news of
his wife.

Archie came in so full of his own affairs,
that he had hardly shaken his friend's hand
before he unfolded the poster and laid it on
his writing-table. " Look at that," he said.
Tom came from the fireplace and looked.

'' Well ? " he said.

I never was asked," said Archie ; " I
never heard a word about it; and I am

advertised all over Langstone like this." He
rapped the offending instrument.

Do you mean," asked Tom deliberately,
while the flush deepened on his cheek, " do
you mean that they have announced you to
preside at a meeting without asking your
permission ? "

'' Yes," said Archie ; " pretty fair cheek,
isn't it ? "

And who on earth has had the sublime
impertinence to do such a thing ? "

Oh, it must be my uncle Yilliers," said
Archie, "he and old Hackbut."

Tom laughed. " No, I won't laugh," he
said with decision ; " it is monstrous. Why,
what are you ? I thought you were a
Liberal."

So I am," said Archie ; " or at least I was
yes, I am a Liberal ! "

"Well, of all "began Tom Rutherford,
but stopped for want of adequate
words.

He saw it alb He knew both Lord Hack-comedy

OF A COUNTRY HOUSE. 33

but and Sir Yilliers Hickory ; and it needed
no explanation to make it clear to him that
this was a bold stroke for the capture of a
young politician at a period of doubt. He
laughed again, but he was none the less
extremely indignant.

*' You must stop it," he said, letting his
good fist fall on the treacherous bill.

But can I ? " asked Archie ; '' you seethe
meeting is for tomorrow night."

"Of course you can," said Tom ; " you
can go home and tell your uncle that you
won't go to the meeting at all ! "

This advice agreed admirably with Archie's
inclination ; but yet he hesitated. He told
Tom that he felt under great obligations to
his uncle, to whose industry and knowledge
of the world it was mainly due that coming
into a title and fortune had been so little of a
bore. He confessed to him, too, that he was
now so little zealous for the interests of the
Liberal party, that it often seemed to him
absurd to oppose the traditions of a long

VOL. II. D

sequence of Lords Lorrilaire for the sake of
the mere lees of a boyish enthusiasm.

** I was beginning to think," he said, with
a rather rueful smile, " that I might as well
settle down into the groove, and do my duty
to the place and to the county ; and that, sofar
as I had to have any politics, I might as
well wear the old clothes that are expected
of the family."

Tom listened with visible impatience.

^' Might as well ! " he echoed, " might as
well ! The worst phrase in the language !
As for the Liberal party, I am at two with
its leaders myself for the present ; and, unless
they come to me, I shall take no active part
in politics. But I am a Liberal none the
less. Liberalism is not the fad of Mr. This
or Mr. That ; it existed long before they
were born and will exist long after they and
their fads are gone. I take the liberty to bea
Liberal." He began to walk up and down,
as the warlike spirit increased within him.
People say," he went on, " that one party is

as Liberal as the other. That may be true ;
and, if it is, I prefer to belong to the party
which is Liberal by descent — though perhaps
that is a Conservative sentiment. The clothes
belong to the Liberals, though, by Jove ! if
they will go bathing for seventeen years or
more, they can't wonder at their clothes being
stolen by somebody. But all this has nothing
to do with your case." Here he stopped
opposite to Archie and became very emphatic.
If you were the bluest old Tory," he said,
who ever wore top-boots in a drawing-room,
you should not let yourself be advertised,
like a pig for sale, without your own consent.
If you take my advice, you will go
back to Sir Yilliers Hickory and say that
you will not attend the meeting, and that
he may be chairman himself."

Yes," said Archie ; '' that is what I
wished to do, but I wanted your advice first."

I am really glad you cared to ask me,"
said Tom, with a quick change from righteous
wrath to warm affection.

I shall come often, if you don't look out,"
said Archie.

All right," said Tom, who was extremely
shy of protestations.

But look here," said Archie ; " here's
another question. What excuse shall I give
to the good people of Langstone for my nonappearance
? "

"• Your uncle must see to that," said Tom ;
^' he made the announcement ; he must find
the excuse. Only of course he must not say
anything about your sympathy with the
cause. Tell him that if he says that, you
will placard Langstone with a confession of
Radical faith. My dear boy, you are much
too good a fellow to be worked by wires like
an automaton doll. A man is bound to
choose for himself in all matters."

Archie laughed. He readily consented to
stay to luncheon. He already felt a pleasant
excitement in the coming interview with his
uncle ; and he was heartily glad that this
matter was settled. He was inclined to talk,

and he told Tom Rutherford his first impressions
of the county and of his possessions
therein, of Langley Castle and the people
now assembled there. Only, as the older
man did not fail to note, he said next to
nothing of Lady Jane Lock and her daughter ;
and this omission was the cause of the greater
emphasis with which Tom, when he had
listened long in silence, expressed his opinion
that Archie was acquiring a very dangerous
habit of passivity. Archie laughed at his
warning ; but Tom asserted that he would
wake up some morning the slave of this habit,
which he had acquired in play, and find that
he could only wait till somebody pushed him
this way or that, and that he had lost all
power of moving whither he chose. " A man
should choose for himself in all matters," he
repeated with meaning.

A strange shyness prevented Tom Rutherford
from talking easily about his wife, even
to Archie, who was like a brother of hers,
and whom he liked so much. In one or two

pauses he nearly asked questions or made
remarks about lier ; but when the time of his
guest's departure had nearly come, he had
heard nothing of her except the important
fact of her good health, and the news, which
gave him a more doubtful pleasure, that she
was the life of the party. Tom would have
liked especially to ask if lie had said anything
about leaving the place, but he could
not put the question to his satisfaction ; and
at last Archie pressed him to come down and
join the party, since it was impossible that
they should spare Dora. Tom felt a strong
impulse to say that he would go down with
him there and then, but he checked it with
severity, and only said grimly — " Then you
are allowed to ask people to your own house?"

*' When I am a good boy," said Archie,
laughing.

You'll find it no laughing matter," said
Tom, " when you have formed your fatal
habit. You will have many masters, your
uncle, your aunt, your cousin "

Who ? " asked Archie.

Isn't he a cousin, or sort of cousin, that
young Yale ? "

Poor Lenny ! " said Archie ; " I don't
think he could master anybody."

You are acquiring him with other bad
habits," said Tom ; '' and let me tell you it
will be a long time before you lose him. I
don't like him — do you mind my saying
so ?

''I don't mind," said Archie; "I didn't
fancy him at first myself; I like him better
now."

Since you've heaped benefits on him,"
said Tom ; " that is always the way."

Oh, I've done nothing," said Archie in
sudden discomfort ; " he had very hard luck."

My dear boy," said Tom with emphasis,
he deserved no better. I tell you he is a
bad lot ; he has a bad strain in him ; and
some day you will find him out — I hope
before he does you a mischief."

Why, I fancied," said Archie, ^* that he

must be a sort of friend of yours. Dora
seems to like him."

It was a cold douche to Tom, who felt
himself flush.

Women are bad judges of men," he said
shortly, and changed the subject. He could
say no more of Leonard Yale. He had
refrained from criticising him to Dora in
accordance with his rule of not interfering
with her likes and dislikes without sure cause.
Now this casual statement that Dora seemed
to like this young man struck him most
unpleasantly, raised sudden tumultuous doubts
of the wisdom of his former silence, and a
further troublesome doubt whether his present
abuse of the young man was wholly the result
of his liking for Archie. This stopped his
tongue. If he were gratifying, in any
degree, a personal prejudice, this abuse of an
absent man seemed mean to Mr. Rutherford ;
he would say no more. He kept silence, but
found no comfort therein.

Presently Archie departed, having again

pressed this friend to become his guest, and
assured him that he might come at any time
without notice. There was time to spare, and
he determined to walk to the station. The
variety of the London streets moved him to
interest at every step, as they never failed to
move him when he had been long away. The
West End was waking from its annual apathy,
for most of its inhabitants, whose homes were
in London, as distinct from those who came
in the summer from country homes, had
returned to their dwellings ; and, for the
afternoon was fair, there were not a few
smart carriages in the streets, and a cheerful
stir on the pavements. Archie walked along-pleased
with the passing show and with the
pageant of shop windows, and forgetting fora
time the spirited action which he purposed.
Peaceful and alert he looked about him,
noting a thousand trifles, until at the corner
of a popular street he paused before a line of
posters, laid on their backs in the mud, and
announcing the contents of the various evening

papers. Among these so-called evening
papers was the Rising Sun, which came out
so early in the day as almost to justify its
title, which had been the cause in its dawn of
abundant jocularity. The choice of name
had been ascribed to the fact that its editor
was an Irishman, and to the fact that, if the
sun ever rose in London, it was after midday,
and to other causes suggested by the
humorist ; but it is certain that its name and
the debate thereon had been an excellent
advertisement before the appearance of the
first number, in which, after the addition of
many more facetious reasons, which might bethe
true one, it was suggested, but not
asserted, that the title was metaphorical.
Anyway it rose ; and there under the eye of
the happy youth was a table of the contents
of the number which had risen on that
particular day. Archie stood looking down
and smiling at the thought of Beck, the subeditor.
There seemed to be abundant matter
in the sheet, and it was more aggressively

announced than the contents of any of its
rivals. Each line was a piquant incitement
of curiosity ; but the last few lines caught
the attention most quickly, being printed in
the largest letters, and suggesting the most
entrancing contrasts.

This is what Archie read —

The Favourite of Fortune." " Radical
youth in high places." " The Socialist Peer."
'' Politics and Hunger." Archie read with
a smile and a sigh till he came to the last
line, and then he began to wonder. He put
a copper into the palm of a hoarse man, who
was standing with a pile of Rising Suns all
open on his arm, and took a copy of the
enterprising sheet. Standing there at the
street corner he folded it back, and found the
exciting headings all set forth in the paper
too, and under the headings a brief and
picturesque account of his own sudden gain
of wealth and title. There was no doubt
about it. He looked round him nervously,
half-expecting to find a crowd forming around

him ; he was relieved to see the careless crowd
passing both ways and for the roost part not
even glancing at the bills. He felt like one
slightly bemused with drink ; the sound of
traffic seemed unreal, and he looked back at
the paper with concentrated attention, as if
there were a chance that he would find quite
different words in it. The words were plain
enough, and plainly set forth the story of his
sudden rise in the world. He remembered
that to Radley Beck privacy was an
anachronism.

But what of these other headings, this
Radicalism and Socialism? These also referred
to him ; and he read with growing
confusion that his talents were at least equal
to his fortunes ; that Oxford in his undergraduate
days had rung with his brilliant,
audacious and revolutionary doctrines ; and
that he used to wear a red tie in the streets.
Had he worn a red tie ? Had sober Oxford
rung with his vagaries ? He had read no
further when he remembered in a moment

why " Politics and Hunger " were words so
familiar to his ears. In his last year at
Oxford, the year of his greatest fermentation,
he had joined a little club of the most enlightened,
and had written for them a paper
called ^' Politics and Hunger." He remembered
that he had been proud of the title ;
he remembered now clearly that his friend
Beck had made a fuss about the paper and
had asked to be allowed to keep it. Archie
read on with hasty, anxious eyes. Here was
his old boyish extravagant essay, or rather
here it was not, but only the most epigrammatic
and extravagant bits cut sharply from
their context, and snapping like a series of
pistol-shots in the faces of a scandalized
society.

Archie folded the paper and looked at his
watch ; he looked quite coolly to see if he
had time to wring Beck's neck before his
train started. In the next moment he perceived
that to wring a sub-editor's neck
would be no proof of moderation of views ;

COMEDY OF A COUNTRY HOUSE.

that moreover this was only his friend's way
of saving him in spite of himself ; and finally
that he had only just time to catch his train.

He called a hansom, and, as he was borne
away from the prostrate bills, he burst out
laughing again ; he could see his uncle Y villiers'
face, as he showed him the paper.

CHAPTER lY.

So soon as Archie reached home, he carried
the paper straight to his uncle, who was in
the library. He expected to produce an effect,
and he was not disappointed. The clear
keen eyes of Sir Villiers had scarcely fallen
on the paper, when he uttered a sound as if
somebody had seized him by the throat, and
turned so red that Archie's thoughts flew to
apoplexy. But no repetition of the alarming-sound
nor of any sound more intelligible
came from this well-controlled middle-aged
gentleman until his eyes going quickly down
the page came to the scraps of the essay.
And this — this," he then said, crumpling
the paper and thrusting it at his nephew —
this infernal stuff? Did you write it ? "

Archie explained hastily, and with his
most soothing manner, for the idea of
apoplexy returned with each alternate
moment, that they were the worst scraps of
a boyish essay written by him at Oxford.

Sir Yilliers rose and with trembling hands
tore the paper across and across ; then he
stuffed it into the fireplace and thrust the
poker down upon it as if it could feel his
wrath. Archie had hoped for an effect, but
this seemed altogether too serious ; he had
supposed that nothing could move from his
propriety this cool, well-appointed man of
the world ; now in his eyes his uncle banging
the poker into the fireplace looked like a
furious old man, full ten years older than
yesterday. The boy looked at him, open-mouthed
and pitiful ; he was uncommonly
sorry ; he knew not what to say. As he
saw his uncle turning after a last bang at the
grate and making for the door, his wish to
offer some comfort made him stammer a lame
request for advice.

Advice ! " cried Sir Yilliers, not even
looking at his nephew ; " what good is advice
when you have written that ? " He made
no pause but went straight to the door,
fumbled with its handle, uttered an angry
exclamation and wrenched it open.

Archie, left alone, felt very unhappy. Here
was none of the fun which he had expected
from the interview. He sat down in a chair
and looked ruefully into the fire, wondering
whether the wrath of this good uncle, to
whom he felt under decided obligations,
would last for ever ; whether he would go
away and transfer all the troublesome details
of stables, cellars, and such things abruptly
to him ; and whether he would take it for
granted that the author of these Radical
fragments, now unhappily given to the
world, could not preside at a public Conservative
meeting. That at least would be a small
gain ; but it seemed equally likely that he
would have to face another scene equally
unpleasant, and state most aggravating reasons

VOL. II. £

for declining to attend this ill-omened meeting.
Thus, wondering and uncomfortable, lie
sat till the door opened and Lord Hackbut
came in. The old lord came in with a most
sardonic grin on bis face.

Arcbie jumped up to meet bim. " You
bave met my uncle ? " be asked.

'' Yes," said Lord Hackbut.

I am afraid be is awfully annoyed," said
Arcbie.

Yilliers takes things too seriously ; be
always does. Where's this paper he spoke
about ? "

There," said Arcbie, pointing at some
black volatile fragments, the remains of his
explosive essay.

Well ! " said the old lord. " What was
it all about ? "

Archie explained as well as he could the
substance of the offending article ; but the
man of long experience cut short bis description
of the youthful " Politics and Hunger."
I know it," be said with a chuckle ; " clever

boss all begin with it. It don't matter. The
only question is what you must do about it.
In my early days it might have been the
horsewhip, but that would strike your friend
Peek as an anachronism, I'm afraid." Here
his broken tooth reappeared with an effect of
savage humour. " Besides," he continued,
he would stick it in his paper and make
money by an increased circulation, and have
you up in court and make more money. You
must write to the paper and say it is unauthorized
and does not represent your views.
Write to the Times — not to your friend's
dirty sheet."

Yes, I can do that," said Archie.

Yes," said the old lord ; " and I will see
too that especial notice is taken by the confounded
press of the fact that yoa preside atour
meeting tomorrow night. To preside
at a Tory meeting is the best answer to a
charge of Radicalism."

There was an awkward pause, of which the
awkwardness was Archie's, and then he said.

■ m-> ■ n\l

Yes, but the worst of it is that I can't goto
your meeting."

What ? " said the old lord, bending his
head towards the youth as if he had suddenly
grown deaf — " What do you say ? "

I had made up my mind, before I saw
that paper, not to go to the meeting."

Lord Hackbut looked at him sideways like
a grim inquiring raven. At length he said,
You don't still believe in all that," and he
nodded at the charred remnants of the newspaper.


No," said Archie stoutly ; " but 1 don't
believe in the other stuff either. I am rather
uncertain what I am, but I know I am nota
Conservative; and I know that I won't
preside at a meeting because I've been announced
to preside without my consent. It
seems to me that that was just as unfair as
what Beck did." He grew hot as he spoke,
and ended with some indignation in his
tone.

No, we ain't as bad as Peek' said the old

lord slowly, and still viewing Archie with
his curious sidelong look.

We made a mistake," he said presently; "it
was your uncle's fault ; he said you agreed to
everything which was settled for you."

It was more my fault than his," said
Archie quickly ; '* I have given him plenty
of reason to suppose that I would agree to
anything."

Lord Hackbut lowered himself into a large
and low armchair and stuck out his great
under-lip till it projected beyond his large
bent nose. " Well," he said at last, '' I am
not altogether surprised. I was inclined to
think that you were not such a hopeless
sawney as your relations supposed."

Thank you," said Archie softly.

Lord Hackbut seemed to be in deep
thought. Presently from his almost prostrate
position he looked up queerly at the young
man, and said, " Well ! "

Well ? " echoed Archie.

*' Since it appears," said the old lord, " that

after all there is something in you, why
shouldn't we make a compact ? I will give
you my word that you shan't be bothered
about this meeting, by your uncle or anybody
else, if you will promise to have nothing
to do with the other party."

The impulsive youth was on the very point
of expressing ready agreement, when, as if
he felt the atmosphere of diplomacy which
surrounded the older man, he hesitated. So
soon as he hesitated, he perceived that he
was offered nothing valuable except that
non-attendance at the meeting which was
already certain, while he on his side was
about to pledge himself either to be a Conservative
or to abstain for ever from politics.
He then suggested with becoming deference
hat Lord Hackbut should promise that
nothing should be said, either at the meeting
or elsewhere, which should connect him in
any way with the one party ; and that he,
on his side, should promise not to join the
other party for at least a year.

Nor to assist them with money ? " asked
Lord Hackbut promptly.

All right ! " said Archie, after a moment's
thought ; " I will give no help of any kind
to any political object for a full year from
to-day."

'' Agreed ! " said the old lord, hoisting
himself out of the chair with surprising
alacrity. " The fact is," he then said, " that
there is a trumpery cogging sheet in Lang-stone,
which has been three parts dead for
the last ten years ; and as soon as they see
what your friend Peek has printed, they will
be down on you to put your money in it. If
the editor could pay for a fly, he'd have been
over to-day."

Archie looked at his friend with a doubtful
eye, but presently he could not help laughing.
I have promised," he said ; " but if anything
is said which implies that I sympathize with
your people, I'll send a cheque to that Lang-stone
paper."

Lord Hackbut was now standing firmly on

strong bowed legs with his back to the fire.
He chuckled over his own thoughts. *well,"
he said at last, " I have more hopes of you.
You may grow into some sort of man yet."

Thank you," said Archie again. " I suppose,"
he suggested with deference, 'that
you will persuade my uncle to take the chair
tomorrow ? "

"No," said Lord Hackbut; "I'll take it
myself ; it'll annoy Palfrey."

It seemed to Archie as if his day had been
unusually full. He had risen early ; he had
been up to London and come back again ; he
had been roughly shaken, as it were, into
a more adequate conception of his own importance
in the world. Who could be blind
to the strong desire for his capture when he
had witnessed such measures taken for that
end ? A town placarded by one kind friend,
and the streets of London flooded by another !
It seemed to Archie, looking back to his leap
from bed in the early morning, as if it was
a day preternaturally long, and as if he had

grown to manhood in its few hours of light.
As he went upstairs to dress for dinner, he
thought with satisfaction that he could give
some twenty minutes to rest and to quiet
consideration of much which Tom Rutherford,
and of something which Lord Hackbut
had said. He foresaw the comfort of his
bedroom, so much larger and more luxurious
than any bedroom which he had enjoyed in
earlier days, with a novel satisfaction ; and
the idea of the newly-lit fire in which heretofore
he had acquiesced indifferently as a part
of his new splendour, now warmed his
imagination while he was yet upon the stair.
When with a smile of content he opened the
door of his room, a new surprise awaited
him. No comfortable firelight was there, nor
pleasant warmth. With the aid of one candle
his man was emptying a chest of drawers,
and a pile of his clothes sat solid on his
writing-table.

This little surprise at the end of the day
produced in Archie a sharper annoyance than

the far more important events of its earlier
hours. " What are you doing ? " he asked
rather sharply.

The man turned and showed a surprise
equal to that of his employer. " Doesn't
your lordship know ? " he asked ; " your lordship
has been moved into the little buff room."

And where is the little buff room ? "
asked Archie, beginning to smile.

At the far end of the bachelor's passage,
my lord. I've put out all the things, and
I was just going to put away some of your
lordship's things downstairs till after the
ball."

After the ball ? " repeated Archie vaguely.

Yes, my lord the ball on Thursday
night."

Oh yes, yes," said Archie ; for the man
was looking at him with as much wonder as
was compatible with respect.

Yes, my lord," continued the man, who
was made loquacious by the coming event ;
Mrs. Dormer told the housekeeper that the

house would be quite full from tomorrow till
Friday, and that she was sure that your lordship
would not mind being moved for three
nights ; and as this room will be wanted and
the little buff room is so very small, I thought
that I had better take some of your lordship's
things down to my room till the guests had
gone."

*' Yes, yes, of course, quite right," said
Archie ; and he went off to look for the little
buff room. As he sought this more humble
apartment, he remembered that his aunt had
said something to him of dancing after dinner
one night, and that he had wondered for a
moment if this dancing were to be for the
entertainment of Mr. Palfrey, and if that
eminent statesman were to sit, like an Oriental
politician, cross-legged and contemplative on
the drawing-room ottoman, while damsels
arose and danced before him. Archie, seeking
his room, which was after all quite large
enough to be found without undue difficulty,
hoped with an easy heart that, if Palfrey

waited for the little dance, lie would like it.
The question of his own enjoyment raised
other questions, and not one of them was
easy to answer. However, it was easy to
say to himself that he generally did enjoy
things, when they came.

It was certain that he could not prevent
this dance from coming. In the first place
it was too late to interfere ; in the second he
felt that he had asserted himself enough for
one day, and that it was enough to have
offended one near relation ; and finally he
shrank more from thwarting a woman's
scheme than a man's. And after all the
scheme seemed harmless enough ; or at least
it seemed that it would be entirely his own
fault, another effect of his own dangerous
passivity, if harm came of it to him. Sufficient
for the day had been its own adventures
and contentions.

Such thoughts occupied Archie, as he
dressed himself with more than usual speed,
for indeed the fire in the little buff room was

no comfort at all. He felt himself being:
gradually roasted ; in despair he pulled back
the curtains and dashed the window open,
and allowed himself to be alternately cooked
and chilled on one side and the other ; and
soon he emerged flushed and gasping and
inhaled the air of his grand staircase as if it
were a highland hill.

So there is to be a ball," he said to his
aunt, when she entered the drawing-room.

Why, what a dreamy boy you are ! " she
said, smiling sweetly ; " I told you of our
little dance."

I didn't know it was to be a County
Ball," said Archie.

Mrs. Dormer laughed low. " It's only a
few of the neighbours," she said ; '^ you must
do something for the neighbours." ;

But there's to be a house full of people
too."

Oh, one must have some people," she
said vaguely ; " do go and take Jane into
dinner ; she looks so alarmingly hungry. I

wish I had any appetite. Lord Hackbut !
You are to take me."

Enchanted," said Lord Hackbut, offering
his sturdy arm ; " we will be happy comparing
doctors."

The lady smiled again with the same sweet
vagueness. " You are a bad man," she said
absently, as she put her hand on his arm and
followed her guests into the dining-room ; —
you are a bad man, but you do amuse me."

CHAPTER y.

Archie could sleep anywhere ; and, though
the Httle huff room was small and the hed too
short for him, he slept as soundly as if he
were in a log-cabin in the heart of a forest of
pines, or rolled in his blanket under a hedge
in a cool summer night of England. He
slept soundly ; but, when he was awake
again, he was soon aware of the feverish
atmosphere of the house. This was the day
of his uncle's great Conservative meeting and
the day before his aunt's little dance ; and
almost everybody was affected by the coming
events. At his very door he ran against a
housemaid unnecessarily moving something
from one place to another ; and, had he enjoyed
any experience of a large establishment, he
would have inferred at once from that one

housemaid's air that all the household were ina
state of unusual commotion. All that day
they would be spasmodically busy about unimportant
trifles, enjoying a fine fuss and
bustle, running against each other in the
passages, and coming frequently for orders
which they frequently forgot.

The nervous agitation was by no means
confined to the servants. Lord Hackbut was
perhaps the only man in the house who kept
his usual state ; or, if there were any change
in him it was merely a stronger infusion of
irony which was caused by the nervousness
of his neighbours.

If Sir Yilliers Hickory was agitated, he
controlled his agitation well. Archie at least,
who met his uncle with manifest anxiety,
perceived no change from his usual manner,
and no change in his habits except that he
asked him rather formally if he approved of
certain orders which he was sending to the
stables. It was necessary to make arrangements
for conveying Mr. Palfrey and his

speech to and from Loadstone, and also for
meeting the guests who were coming on that
day for the dance of the next evening. All
these arrangements Sir Yilliers had made as
usual ; but he was now careful to ask his
nephew's approval of them ; his nephew
hastened to acquiesce. In calculating how
many people were likely to attend Mr. Palfrey
and his meeting, Sir Yilliers made no mention
of Archie, and Archie inferred with relief
that his uncle had accepted Lord Hackbut's
compromise.

In Mr. Palfrey, as was natural, the prevailing
fever was more manifest, though in
him it showed itself for the most part in an
excessive ostentation of ease. He was more
talkative, more friendly, at times almost
jocular ; but he could not sit still for long in
one place ; his silences were sudden and eyes
glassy. When he was walking about, his
lips moved ; sudden tremulous smiles came
and went on his face. " Do you see him ? "
said Lord Hackbut, when Mr. Palfrey for no

VOL. II. F

reason had wandered out of the room ; '' he
is rehearsing an impromptu. His man has
gone into Langstone to arrange for an interruption.
You know the sort of thing; you
will see it in the paper tomorrow ; it costs
five shillings — ' A voice in brackets asking,
How about Whatdyecallem ? ' and then Mr.
Palfrey resuming, ' I think I hear some good
friend asking. How about Whatdyecallem?
I will tell my good friend all about .'
Here he stops for laughter; and,
when the laughing is done, out comes the
impromptu."

Archie laughed politely ; and Tony would
have laughed too, had not his whole attention
been given to his pulse, which at the moment
he was counting furtively. Tony was conscious
of an accession of fever, which was
doubtless due also to the general atmosphere
of the house.

If the men were nervous, the women were
no better. It is true that Miss Lock showed
no sign of agitation, but seemed intent upon

the fine work which she was doing. It is
true also that Mrs. Chauncey sat quiet in her
place ; but Clara Chauncey at least was in a
state so electrical that it may well be believed
that she would have emitted sparks in the
dark. She was talking to Dora, talking with
deference and with zeal, but forcing herself to
talk quietly and in a low tone, that Lady Jane
might not hear her words. Presently Dora
rose to leave the room, and Clara, still talking,
followed her ; and so soon as the door had
closed behind them the pent-up irritability,
which was the form which nervousness took
in Lady Jane Lock, found vent in words.
She had observed, before, the advances which
Mrs. Chauncey was making to Mrs. Rutherford,
and, though Clara had not become less
anxiously civil to herself, she resented these
advances to the enemy as mere desertion. Li
her eyes there was no excuse for the presence
of Mrs. Chauncey but obsequious devotion to
herself. " Really Susan' she said to Mrs.
Dormer, when the door closed, ^' I am grateful

that some decent women are coming here
to-day. I really cannot think how you can
sit there smiling."

You know that I am told to, dear," said
Susan Dormer, who showed no sign of any
disturbance of the nerves.

Told to ! " echoed Lady Jane, with a voice
made hoarse by the desire not to be audible
at the further end of the room. " Told to !
Told to sit quiet and see such things going
on in the house ? "

^' What things, dear ? "

Lady Jane replied with a look full of
meaning and a side glance at Elizabeth.

*' Shall I go away ? " asked the girl calmly.

Certainly not ! What do you mean ?
You can go on with your work and not
listen."

"But I can't work with my fingers in my
ears," said Elizabeth with a faint smile, and
slipping the work into its silken bag she left
the room.

I can't think what has come to her," said

Lady Jane after a short silence ; '* that is the
way she answers me. But who can wonder
at it ? A nice well-brought-up girl to find
herself in the society of such women ! "

Good gracious, Jane ! " murmured Mrs.
Dormer placidly, '^ you don't mean me ? "

I mean your guests," said Lady Jane
with warmth.

Well, you know, dear," said Susan unruffled,
*' I've told you before that I was
obliged to ask somebody, and of course you
would not have liked another girl, and
nowadays when you come to young married

women "

'' I can't see the necessity of Mrs. Rutherford."


I didn't ask her, dear."

*'No. Her conduct throughout has been
without excuse. But Mrs. Chauncey ? You
did ask Mrs. Chauncey. May I ask why I
am expected to meet a Mrs. Chauncey ? "

Oh, poor dear Clara ! " said Susan
blandly ; " she was a Lingered. What

can you expect from a Lingered ? " Mrs.
Dormer's smile, as she thus disposed of a
whole noble family, was absolutely seraphic.

To Archie at the further end of the room a
word of the women's talk came now and then
and made him uncomfortable. He wished
more than ever that there was some definite
occupation for the day. At least he could
not spend any more of the day in that 
trying to find amusement and
instruction in the daily paper, and vaguely
troubled by suggestions of female gossip and
by the feverish atmosphere of the time.
Movement in the outer air was always the
best cure for his troubles. He put down
the unsatisfying journal, and went out from
the room and from the house.

So soon as he was out of doors, Archie
bethought him of an object, and forthwith he
stepped away at a good steady pace to visit
an outlying tenant, who had had a difference
of opinion with the agent. The difference was
slight, and the real object of the walk was

that gradual soothing of the ruffled spirits
which comes from good walking. It was a
sullen day and neutral-tinted ; and there was
little to turn away the wayfarer's eyes from
the road on which he went. He missed his
way one or twice, and, since the roads were
nearly empty, he was forced to rap once with
his stick on a cottage door, and a little later
to stoop under the porch of a sleepy little alehouse,
before he found his doubtful farmer.
When at last he did find him, he found that
the small difference had been adjusted, and
so, when he had sat awhile in the kitchen
chatting with the farmer's wife, and had
accepted and eaten a big slice of her cake, he
set off to trudge home again in more contented
mood.

He walked, and walked with good effect,
for temperate sane thoughts seemed to keep
time with that temperate sane exercise, which
is at once the cheapest, the easiest, and the
best. And yet, as he drew nearer to his
home, his spirits drooped a little. It was an

upland farm which lie had visited, and he
could not help fancying that he was now
sloping' downward to a laxer atmosphere.
He even wondered, boy though he was, if he
had said good-bye for ever to the old liveliness
of life. Still he kept his steady pace
with the real British faith in doggedness,
and chid himself for idle fancies. He thought
that a man should keep moving to some good
end, and take the ups and downs of spirits as
they came. When he was now within the
limits of his Park, he was still far from the
house ; and it was there, in a secluded part
of his domain, that he saw a sight which
gave him a more real cause for depression.

That which Archie saw and which made
him stop suddenly in his walk, was by no
means a remarkable spectacle. In front of
him and moving likewise towards the house
were Dora Rutherford and Leonard Yale.
He looked and wondered why the sight
annoyed him. He could not change the fact
by the wondering ; he was much annoyed.

He had known that these two were very
great friends ; he had told Tom Rutherford
in London that Dora seemed to Hke Lenny ;
and he had told it then carelessly, with no
second thought at all. Perhaps in some idle
moment he had wondered why Dora was
interested in this man, whom he could not
help regarding as a poor creature ; but he
had thought little about it. But now there
was something in the look of the two, as
they moved slowly over the short grass, which
annoyed him very much. It was hard to say
what this something was ; but Archie seemed
to see in the long thin figure of the youth an
air of tenderness and devotion which, as it
seemed to him uneasily regarding them, Dora
should have resented. He wished to see her
quicken her pace and walk with prouder air ;
but her steps were slow, and she wore the air
of one who listens ; Archie could even fancy
sympathy in the bend of her fine head. The
earnest talk, which he imagined between
them, vexed him as he was seldom vexed.

There came back on him with a sharp vividness
a scene, which he had all but forgotten ;
he saw Dora fall with a cry beside the little
stream in the valley, and the strange looks
of Leonard Vale as he hurried to her side,
the extravagant signs of grief and fear.

'' He is a poor creature, any way," Archie
said to himself. He recalled Tom Rutherford's
opinion of Lenny, and then it struck
him, as it had not struck him at the time,
that Tom had said not a word more about
Lenny, when he, Archie, had once blurted
out the statement that Dora seemed to like
him. What right had Dora to be so friendly
intimate with one, whom her husband held
so unworthy ? The sight of Dora walking
slowly beside this bending and devoted
youth made him for the first time in his life
angry with her. He promptly condemned
himself for this unreasonable anger ; but he
was angry. He stood still, till they had
walked beyond his ken, and then walked on
again also. But now there was no longer

any doubt that he was out of sorts; his, feet
dragged ; he felt a most real reluctance to
enter his noble portals. It seemed as if that
castle of his was an emblem of the elaborate
tiresome structure of Society, raised for the
purpose of increasing needs and needlessly
complicating life, inventing daily duties which
did good to nobody, fostering in its hot
luxurious rooms mean ambitions and dangerous
desires. Had this hot-house air and idleness
changed the playmate of his boyhood to
a shifty flirting woman of fashion ? He was
sure not, and yet was not content. Standing
there, he had a vision of a fair hill-side above
a laughing sea, and feeding sheep, and simple
life wherein a chief duty would not be to find
something for other men and women to do
for him. He saw Tom returning in the
evening from the plough, and Dora bringing
in the dinner. Where was the Golden Age ?
Our fathers looked back for it and we correct
their error. If he could look forward, might
not that be an error also ? Or was it not too

far away, beyond all dreaming, too far for
comfort to the young hopeful heart greedy of
a nearer good ?

The enormous weariness of little things
weighed on him like a nightmare. This
monstrous dwelling-place, at which he stared,
had been added to and adorned by generation
after generation of short-lived, toiling men,
till now, in the fulness of time, the end of all
the care and all the toil was seen to be this
colossal and intricate structure which weighed
upon its owner's soul. The wasted labours
of mankind seemed fixed for ever there ;
there it stood, a solid, inevitable fact, vast,
labyrinthine, and obscure as the laws of
England. Thence his thoughts leapt to the
speech which Mr. Palfrey would deliver that
evening ; and he foresaw with a new clearness
the clever evasions, brilliant misrepresentations,
effective repartees, the whole, too, a
monstrous and elaborate erection, and not one
useful undistorted fact pressed home to the
gaping hearers. All things seemed to young

Lord Lorrilaire at that dark moment to have
been made on one pattern ; castles, orations,
reputations, the fine gradations of social state,
the ingenious measures of politicians, all were
no better than imposing shams, all the vain
product of a dinning universal machinery ;
and this Mr. Palfrey, who had dedicated
himself unasked to the service of his fellowmen,
had been building through long weeks
a brand-new Langley Castle of deceptive
phrases, which, when the next day's papers
had gone their way to the dust-bin, would
straightway vanish into air, with all its
shadowy porticoes, its long connected passages
and topless towers, and vanishing, leave nota
twopenny loaf behind.

CHAPTER YI.

Arcbie's imagination was capable at times of
these amazing feats. He saw two young-people
returning from an afternoon's short
walk, and lo ! what a fantastic building he,
too, had raised in five minutes on how small
a foundation ! The universe was an universe
of laborious vanities, because a young man
and a young woman had walked together in
his park, or rather because he could not
understand at a glance why they conversed
with an earnest air.

The truth is that Archie was not wrong in
thinking that the talk of Dora Rutherford
and Leonard Yale had been less commonplace
and more interesting than that which
generally accompanies the sober constitutional.
Archie had really witnessed the return from

an interview of reconciliation. Dora had
been much offended on the Saturday evening,
when the respectful Mr. Yale had pushed a
note into her hand. She had allowed her
contemptuous eyes to read the offending
scrap, before she dropped it, and she had
admitted to herself at once that the words
were harmless enough. The writer had
merely implored her to give him a chance
of speaking to her, and she had decided at
once that the prayer was entirely and satisfactorily
explained by their league for the
saving of Lord Lorrilaire. \Yhen she came
to argument, Dora could prove to herself in a
moment that the incident was of no importance,
but she had not waited to argue before
she felt offence. She was offended ; and she
wished at once to punish the young man for
his momentary departure from that humble
attitude, which it pleased her to believe was
and always would be his attitude towards
her. She meant him to know at once that inforcing
a clandestine note upon her, he had

passed those limits which she ruled so accurately.
Of course the note was harmless ;
she would not even imagine the possibility of
his writing to her a note which was not
addressed as to a superior being ; but nevertheless
he had been guilty of stupidity,
awkwardness, a marked fault in taste ; and
he must be made to recognize this fact immediately.
Dora had lost no time in teaching
Leonard Yale that she disapproved of his
conduct, and her method was such that no
doubt was left in his mind of the reality of
her disapproval. If she had cast at him an
indignant glance, or turned on him with
flashing eyes, or even swept by him without
a look, he would have been but little abashed.
His instinctive recognition of the ways of
women would have assured him that she was
but half offended ; and he would have replied
to the dramatic display of indignation with
the contrite air and the imploring eyes,
which, as he would have felt at once, were
expected of him. But Dora simply ignored

the incident, and mr. Yale was promptly
miserable. He could detect no sign of indignation
nor of pardon. She neither averted
her eyes, nor seemed to notice his pathetic
looks. Only during two whole days he found
not a chance to say to her anything more
interesting than ^' Good morning ; " the days
were tedious beyond all endurance. If she
had shown signs of ignoring his existence, it
would have been a comfort to him ; but she
seemed to be quite well aware of his existence,
and for the rest, to be in her usual health
and spirits. With bitter mortification he felt
himself of no more weight with her than a
grain of dust ; at moments he hated her.
He went away with a certain ostentation like
a spoiled child, and he cursed her under his
breath like an ill-governed man.

Then Clara Chauncey had taken her opportunity.
For the first time since Dora's coming-she
had sought the dejected youth, and had
treated him to a nice mixture of banter and
sympathy. She had examined his wounds

VOL. IT. G

with a cool inquiring eye and had pronounced
her opinion on them with her usual frankness
; and at last with much dexterity she
had won from him that story of the note,
which she knew already. Then with all the
air of a good comrade she had offered to goto
Mrs. Rutherford and make his peace ; and
Lenny had been effusively grateful. And
now Clara Chauncey was able to make use of
that better opinion of herself, which she had
been building up so craftily in Dora's mind.
She could approach Dora now, and be sure of
a kind reception, be sure that Dora saw the
coming of one who had suffered much from
the unkindness of the world, and who came
to her for advice and help. So Clara had
come to Dora, and with straight gaze of the
round brown eyes, and almost blunt directness
of speech, had spoken to her of Leonard
Yale. Dora had been easily captivated by
this frankness, and by the clear perception
which Clara showed of the young man's
weakness, and of her own paramount influence

with him. Mrs. Chauncey spoke with candour
of her own old friendship for the boy. but
confessed that she had no power over him,
and expressed her wonder at Dora's extraordinary
influence. All this was very pleasant
to Dora, confirming in every point her own
theories of the situation ; and it was not long
before she consented to hear the young
delinquent's apologies, and to set him once
more in that straight path, in which it seemed
that only her direction could keep him.
It is simply life and death to him," Mrs.
Chauncey had said, gazing at Dora with the
unabashed curiosity of a child ; " I can't
understand it." Dora had laughed at this
exaggeration of her powers, but yet the
wonder of this other woman, who was by no
means stupid, was like delicate incense to
her.

When Leonard Yale after three days of
discomfort was permitted at last to plead for
pardon, he was very careful to preserve the
expected attitude. He offered no excuse

except his pitiable weakness, his fatal habit
of doing the wrong thing ; and he begged for
pity and pardon as from a being, whom he
knew well he had no right to approach. And
yet Dora, though she made light of the affair
and cut short his protestations, was not quite
happy during the necessary interview. The
suppliant seemed more feverish than she
liked. She saw in a moment that this
feverishness was but another proof, where no
other was needed, of utter weakness ; she
thought him looking ill too, hectic and dark
about the eyes ; she was really sorry for him.
Since she alone could help him, she must not
allow any idle fancies of hers, any shrinking
from a somewhat feverish atmosphere which
she seemed to feel, to divert her from this
interesting duty. And yet she was glad
when the interview was over and they had
returned to the house, and she could shake
off with her neat overcoat the feeling which
displeased her. She wished that her pupil
would begin to show a little more strength, a

little less of this almost abject devotion which
made her uncomfortable in spite of her arguments.
She felt as if she too caught a little
fever from so hectic a creature ; and yet he
was interesting in his weakness. She had a
love of risk; and, though of course there could
be no risk here, the idea that others might
think that she was playing a risky game
thrilled her a little. She knew her own
strength ; the games, which she was playing
there, were not really perilous, but they
Required courage and skill ; she meant to win
the games. She was like a confident lady,
who has tamed a soft sleek tiger, whom only
the spectators think dangerous ; she would
show them how she could lead him and teach
him. Poor human tiger! He did look ill
too ; she must not be too hard on him ; he
never showed the merest pin-point of a claw ;
his education could be conducted wholly by
methods of kindness.

And now the day, which had been tiresome
for almost all the inmates of Langley Castle,

began to slide imperceptibly from its dull
greatness to the less dismal shades of evening.
The Castle became gay with lights, and fires
burned more brightly; and presently carriages
arrived bringing the new guests, who came
for the next night's ball ; and carriages
departed carrying Mr. Palfrey and his
fortunes, for the orator was to dine with the
Mayor of Langstone before unburdening
himself for ever of that oppressive speech.
And Lord Hackbut went too, with Sir Yilliers
Hickory and some other gentlemen, who
were among the new arrivals, and who, as
persons notoriously connected with politics,
felt it a duty to show an interest in a leader's
speech, if it were to explode anywhere within
a measurable distance.

So bustle and animation closed the day
which had displayed a want of vitality ; and
among the young men and young women
who had come to dance, no one showed a
kinder spirit or a more innocent-seeming
wish to be happy and to make others happy

than little Mrs. Chaiincej. To the elder
women her manner seemed almost to apologize
for her presence ; and on the younger she
looked kindly, a little sadly, as if she would
not venture to brings her sorrows near to their
young happiness. Only she sought the girl
who suffered so much from shyness, and
won her mother's heart by inducing her to
smile and even to answer once or twice.
This mother always said afterwards, when
Clara's name was mentioned, as it often was,
that she knew that there had been ill-natured
stories, but that she must say for her part
that she had never known a more good-natured
kind-hearted little woman, and that
that was something.

About noon of the next day, which was
Thursday, Tom Rutherford was standing in
his study with a little note in his hand and a
dangerous look in his face. His writing-table
was covered with papers and signs of work,
and on the floor near to the fire lay the
morning's paper, which contained not only

the full report of Mr. Palfrey's speech, but also
a short letter from Lord Lorrilaire. Archie
had written briefly that he much disliked
writing about himself and his opinions, since
he was well aware that he had done nothing
which should make either him or his opinions
a matter of interest to the public ; but that
he was compelled to say that the fragments of
a boyish essay of his, which had been published
in a popular evening-paper, had been published
without his consent, and that they did not
express his opinions. When Tom Rutherford
had read this short letter and had assured
himself that the name of Lord Lorrilaire did
not occur in the account of the Conservative
meeting at Langstone, he had thrown down
the paper with cordial approval of his young
friend. He had thrown down the paper
without even reading the report of Mr.
Palfrey's oration ; he knew Mr. Palfrey and
the points which he would make' in the
present state of affairs.

But Rutherford had not been at work long

when he was Interrupted by his servant, who
brought a note, and apologized for his
entrance by pointing out that the note was
marked " Important." He had found the
note in the letter-box ; there was no stamp or
post-mark on it ; it had been pushed into the
box with no knock or ring to announce it.

Alone in his room Tom held the little scrap
of paper with the charred edge ; a dark flush
was on his face. The words on the scrap of
paper were not important ; they were even
meaningless without the part, which had
been burnt off. " Pray give me a chance
of speaking to you ! I must see you. I

am most awfully " and that was all, for

fire had made the rest illegible. But this
crumpled and charred fragment had been
wrapped in the smoother neater note, which
now lay on the writing-table beneath Tom's
eyes, a short note too, written in French and
in a foreign-looking; hand. The French
language is, it is said, more capable than our
clumsier tongue of delicate suggestion. This

note was suggestive, perhaps delicately
suggestive, playful, ironical ; it professed to
come from a friend, and to convey a poor
scrap, which had drifted to him by chance
(for it slipped out, as if by accident, that the
friend was masculine) — a poor imperfect
sample of autumn leaves which were flying to
and fro, as the writer poetically put it, in gay
profusion.

This little note, like the accompanying
fragment, had no signature. He dashed his
fist down upon the little mean note, which
lay open on the table before him. The pain
helped him ; he saw that one of his knuckles
was bleeding, and he wound his handkerchief
round his hand. Then he placed the
two notes in their envelope, and this envelope
in a larger one of his own, sealed it carefully
and locked it in a safe drawer. From the
tumult of feelings one purpose had already
emerged. He would go down to Langley
and take his stand by his wife. It was the
natural impulse of this man to protect the

weak ; and, when an attack was made on
the woman, whom before all he was bound to
protect, there could be no doubt of his first
duty. But, though there was relief in having
decided on action, Tom Rutherford was still
hot with anger. He was angry with himself
for having let his wife go alone to Langley.
He was angry with this base anonymous
writer who was trying to injure his wife.
He was angry with Dora, too, who should
have taken care that his wife gave no excuse,
however slight, for vile malicious tongues.
And there was yet another against whom his
anger turned with sudden flare. He had nota
doubt but that it was Leonard Tale, whose
tricks and manners had set malice to work ;
he could see the romantic airs of this professional
philander, who had always stirred
his wrath ; he could imagine the smug complacency
with which he enjoyed the chance
of being talked about with a charming
woman. Tom could not scourge himself for
his folly, nor strike the writer of the note,

for he lead not a doubt that the writer was a
woman ; but, when he thought of Leonard
Vale, his wounded fist clenched itself and his
jaw was set like a fighter's. Nothing, it
seemed, could allay the heat of his anger but
the giving of good blows. He controlled
himself with a strong effort, knowing well
that, when he went to Langley, he must consider
nothing but the interest of his wife, and
that there was small hope that her interests
would be furthered by a violent attack on
the man, whom he wished to beat. Forcing
himself to be calm, he put away his papers
and books, each in its place, selected an afternoon's
train, and gave orders for the packing
of his portmanteau. It was lucky that
Archie's pressing invitation to him made his
unannounced appearance at Langley sufficiently
natural ; and he could trust himself to
act with sense and sobriety, even under the
eyes of his anonymous friend, if she were
there.

CHAPTER Iii.

At Langley Castle during all that Thursday
there was still fever and fret. It is true that
the great orator's speech had been lifted from
within and delivered to an expectant world,
and that this element of disquiet had passed
away. The Right Honourable Palfrey had
received the congratulations of those friends
who had heard his speech, and the yet more
hearty congratulations of those who had not
heard it, and who hoped to make up by
warmth of admiration for their undeniable
absence from the meeting. The Right
Honourable gentleman had an air of relief, as
one on whom a successful operation has been
performed ; he was rid of a secret burden ; he
was breathing freely again. Mr. Palfrey felt

a further relief when lie said good-bye to
Lord Hackbut, who departed in his own
carriage for the other side of the county ;
and, when he was in the London train with
his legs comfortably wrapped in his rug, he
even whistled a little, a little out of tune,
and, unfolding the Punch of the day before,
smiled superior at the political cartoon. He
felt that all speech-making and no play might
make even him a dull boy, and that this was
one of the moments when, safely delivered of
his oration and from the sardonic eye of
Lord Hackbut, he might dare to be decorously
frivolous.

But, though the fever of politics thus
passed away from Langley, it seemed as if
there was no abatement of the whole amount
of feverishness. A double portion went into
the preparations for the ball. Mrs. Dormer's
little dance was assuming vast proportions.
A little army of workmen had occupied the
house and spread themselves over the adjacent
ground. Within was the moving of furniture,

the transfer of coufusecl guests from
room to room, the putting up and taking
down of decorations, collisions in the passages,
bustle and dust. Without, the whole terrace
was being covered by a vast tent-like erection,
which sprawled around the house and
stretched even to the base of the old tower.
Every room in the house was full ; and
indeed, that all the guests might be taken ina
general shuffling of inmates had been found
necessary. Among others Dora had resigned
with becoming cheerfulness her spacious and
sumptuous apartment, and had taken herself
and her ball-gown to a little single room,
which was good enough, as she said, for one
who had had no invitation. In the tornado
of changes only one being remained absolutely
serene. Susan Dormer, having unloosed the
whirlwinds, sat, as her physician advised, in a
state of wholesome placidity. Calm as a contemplative
idol sitting cross-legged with the
soles of its feet turned up to heaven, she sat
with her little mouth delicately ajar, and

seemed to smile absently on the confusion
which she had made.

The newly-arrived guests, who had come
for excitement, enjoyed and increased the
excitement, which they found. They were
eager to see everything, and especially their
young host, whose sudden comet-like elevation
and exaggerated wealth made him the
most interesting person of the hour. Archie
was very amiable. He was happy in the
thought that half his troubles had ended with
the delivery of Mr. Palfrey's speech, and that
he had secured a respite at least from political
difficulties. The politicians had gone and
had said no further word on their topic ; Sir
Yilliers had preserved a like reticence ; and
Archie, when he had read his own letter in
that morning's paper, felt that he could delay
for a little while all efforts to decide on his
future political course. He was amiable then,
and he tried hard, even in the wild confusion,
to be courteous and cool. He led the way to
this and that ; he answered all sorts of questions,

of which many were personal ; he was
patient and pleasant.

At last, however, the limits of Archie's
patience were reached. He felt that he had
earned a respite and that he would stand no
more from guests and workmen, mitil he had
gained a short hour of solitude and silence.
With alert attention he sought a chance of
escape and with prompt decision seized it.
He slipped away through a back passage,
and fairly ran till he had gained the covert
of the nearest trees. Thence he walked
straight away, only eager to be beyond the
rapping of hammers and clatter of talk.
Straight away he walked till he should
recover his lost serenity.

Now it happened that a like desire of
solitude had taken possession of Dora Rutherford.
Dora too was conscious of a fever in
her blood, and in time the divers noises of
the day made her so restless that she could
not sit still and smile at people. So she too

VOL. II. H

had stolen away and set forti alone in quest
of her lost serenity.

At the distance of two miles or more from
the house, Archie and Dora met. They were
on a straight piece of road, and they saw
each other for some time before their actual
meeting. They could not have avoided each
other without an appearance of strangeness ;
and each had time, as they drew nearer, to
become more and more critical. Archie on
his side recognized a sudden return of his
annoyance of yesterday ; he viewed the
slender figure on the road with the same
discontent. He was glad that on this afternoon
at least she had no companion ; and yet
he was annoyed with her, and sentences
formed themselves, which he knew well that
he would be wise to keep to himself. What
could he say ? How could he speak plainly
to her of Leonard Yale ? Direct speech of
this kind would merely offend her, and do no
good. And, besides, there was really nothing
with which he could find fault, nothing buta

mere impression which might have been
produced in him by the mere feverishness in
the air. Dora, on her side, was nervous and
discontented. She had not been thinking
of Archie ; and the sudden sight of him
reminded her that he was the object of her
visit, and that it was strange that he had not
been in her thoughts. She was vexed with
herself for her intrusive fancies ; and her vexation
went out to meet the young man who
was coming, walking alone. So soon as she
thought of him, she disapproved of his solitude.
This lonely rambling, when his house was full
of guests, had too dovelike an air. In her
vexation she was inclined to ask him sharply,
if he had withdrawn himself to muse upon
the sullen lady of his love ; but she too was
wise enough to keep the question to herself.

When two friends are busy with unspoken
mutual criticism, they are apt to talk on
general questions, in which the personal
criticism finds partial expression. It is often
an exasperating form of conversation.

So it happened now that Archie, when he
had turned and had walked beside Dora for a
little while in silence, said suddenly, " I don't
think much of this world of yours."

World of mine ? " said Dora, who felt
herself challenged.

Your fashionable world," said Archie.

^' It's no more mine than yours," said Dora.

Well, I am out of it for an hour, anyway,"
said Archie. " It is over there," he added,
nodding towards his distant abode — " chattering
and clattering and gossiping to its heart's
content."

I have no patience," said Dora, '' with
commonplace abuse of the world. Country
bumpkins, like you and me, grow up outside it,
and only read about it in cynical novels ; and
then, when we do see it, we take every light
word seriously, and think that every woman,
who paints her eyes, is desperately wicked."

*' Well, I prefer clean faces," said Archie.

So do I ; but it doesn't follow that everybody
is wicked."

"I never said that everybody was wicked.
What strikes me about your world is "

It isn't my world," objected Dora.

Well, what strikes me," continued Archie,
*' is that the atmosphere is tainted. Now I
take it that all the good people over there,"
and he nodded again towards Langley, 'rare
eminently respectable ; but they don't seem
to me to care about anything in the world
but other people's vices. They talk about
other things as if they were bored to death,
and then somebody chucks 'em a reputation,
and they become as lively as — as anything."


Dora could not help laughing ; but Archie
went on rather quickly. " Now the mischief
is," he said, " that you plunge a nice young
woman into that sort of air, and she soon
learns to breathe it as if there were no better.
She finds that it is a matter of course that
she should be talked about with somebody,
and she knows that she means no harm, and
yet "

He seemed uncertain how to finish his
sentence, and Dora, who felt, as is common
in such conversations, that these general
comments had a personal flavour, hastened
with more warmth to a defence of society,
which seemed to include a defence of herself.
With greater emphasis she repeated her
favourite theory that her world, as Archie
chose to call it was not half so bad as it was
said to be. She enforced her view with
impetuosity ; she was enforcing it on herself
as well as on her hearer ; she could not afford
to doubt it, for on its truth rested her whole
private defence of her own conduct. If her
world were as bad as cynical people said, she
felt that the liberty which she allowed herself
was indefensible.

Archie replied with a like heat, for to
dispute of men and women, while the disputants
are thinking of each other, most
quickly increases the temperature.

You maybe right about women," he said,
but I know something about men."

No," she said ; " you are a country boy,
and how can you know anything about men
of the world ? "

Yes, thank Heaven ! " said he, " that I
am a country boy." He drew a deep breath
as if he would inhale the country into his
lungs. " But at least," he said, after a
minute, " I must know more about men than
you do. I am quite certain that there is not
one Englishman in a million who can stand
leading an utterly idle life, and not one in
the whole country who can be idle in that
sort of atmosphere," and he nodded again
towards his castle — " without going to the
to the dogs'

And so I suppose," said Dora, with a
sudden flush, which she resented, " that one
is to do nothing to help a man, who is idle
by no fault of his own, and in danger of
going to the — to the dogs ? " She gave a
little scornful laugh, but she was very uneasy
; the discussion was losing its generality.

Well," said Archie, " if it's a question of

helping a chap, I think it had better be left
to his mates."

I don't agree with you at all," said Dora
hotly ; '' a woman has so much more tact."

She can't know what she is about,"
retorted Archie ; " she is playing with

fire."

Oh, that's the usual talk," said Dora
angrily ; " it's a mere appeal to women's
cowardice. There is nothing which exasperates
me more than this mean feminine
fear, this perpetual assertion that friendship
between a man and a woman is impossible.
Do you believe that a man and a woman
can't be friends ? "

You and I are a standing proof to the
contrary," said Archie ; " we always have
been friends, and we always will be friends —
won't we, Dora ? "

He asked this final question with some
anxiety, and Dora promptly felt that the
conversation was on the very edge of direct
personality. His very next words might call

in question another and more newly founded
friendship of hers.

*' We will always be friends," she said
lightly, " as we were in our bumpkin days."

I tell you what it is," he said ; " I wish
with all my heart, or with more than half
my heart at least, that we were back in our
village again, and out of all this fuss and
Rubbish, and eternal gabble about this trumpery
person and that trumpery person. Don't
you find it refreshing to think of the Rectory
dairy, and our orchard, and your mother and
mine trotting about with port wine and
things, or your mother gardening in her sun-bonnet,
and mine in her back drawing-room
composing her dear old novels. To me it's
like a plunge in running water on a dusty
day."

There is no way back to Arcadia," said
Dora, rather pompously ; she was apt to
be pompous when she quoted her scholarly
father.

Yes, there is," said Archie bluntly ;

that's only feminine cowardice, if you
like "

I don't like," interrupted Dora tartly.

'' What's to prevent you and Tom from
taking the old Manor House ? You can have
a long lease, or buy it outright."

And you think Tom would play Darby
to my Joan ? "

Why not ? He could work there better
than in fusty London, and, when his time
came, he could stand for that division of the
county."

Darby, M.p," she said with mockery ;
and you ? What would you do ? feed
sheep ? "

Oh, I " began Archie.

Oh, you ! " she cried out ; " you would bea
pedlar ; that's what you would like."

He laughed, but did not deny it. ^' It
wouldn't be bad," he said.

Oh, you are sentimental," she said scornfully;
"you talk like a man in love." She
knew in a moment that she had said more

than she meant to say ; there was no unsaying
the words, and so she made haste to be more
jocular, and to pursue the theme, as if there
were no danger in it. " I can fancy you on
the tramp," she said, '' with your wife five
yards behind you and laden with the household
goods, or the pair of you at luncheon
by the roadside with your feet in a dry ditch."

Well," said Archie calmly, " even a
pedlar is the better for a good wife."

Yes, for a good wife," she said quickly ;
'^ that's the rub. How is a man to know
which girl will make a good wife ? No man
should marry until he is at least thirty, and
has seen a great deal of the world and of
women. Then there is some slight chance
of his making a sensible choice."

Archie only laughed in his usual provoking
way. Perhaps he felt that these general
declarations concerning matrimony had a
sharply personal direction. " So no man is
to marry," he said, " until he has been well
soused in this world of yours ? "

If this was meant as a counter-attack, it
was successful, for Dora dropped the marriage
question and leapt to the defence of Society,
repeating again with unnecessary vehemence
her belief in the essential innocence of that
body. " It's all the fault of the papers," she
said ; " they publish every scandal ; nobody
publishes the record of all the decent people
who do nothing outrageous. If there's a row
at No. 77, Boodle Street, all the world re-echoes
with it ; but who hears anything of
all the respectable routine of all the numbers
from 1 to 76 ? "

I give you up Boodle Street," said
Archie ; " it's not in the Directory ; perhaps
it's a street in Arcadia."

Don't be frivolous," she said ; " you ought
to get your friend Mr. Beck to publish a
newspaper of good news, instead of lists of
murders and accidents and all the scandals."

Upon my word," said Archie, '' I think
he would like the idea — the villain ! His
telegrams would tell us that the old bank at

Whatdyecallit was as far from bankruptcy as
ever ; that Mr. Wright had given his nsnal
subscriptions to the usual charities ; and that
all the husbands on the left side of Macassar
Place had come home to tea at the usual
hour. It is perfectly certain that the posters
in the streets of London are the real fountains
of Pessimism. I, for one, shall think better of
your world tomorrow, if I avoid the papers
and survive aunt Susan's little dance."

'rit is not my world," said Dora with calm
persistence ; " and I am sure that I hope you
will survive your aunt Susan's little dance."

If there was a deeper meaning in this last
wish, Archie ignored it. He looked at his
watch. " I ought to be back with my flock,"
he said — " with your innocent if fashionable
sheep. That is the sort of Arcadian shepherd
that I am." He began to whistle a fantastic
air with his walking-stick held like a flute,
and he danced down the road before her.

Good old Archie ! " cried out Dora —
good old Archie ! as Mr. Tony would say."

CHAPTER Viii.

By this time Archie and Dora had come in
their walk to the upper edge of the old wood,
through which Dora had climbed on that
eventful day when Archie had helped
Elizabeth Lock out of the water. Their
homeward way lay through this same wood,
bat they entered it by a different track ; and,
as they went quickly down, they came in the
very heart of the wood to a small clearing, in
which stood the cottage of one of the under-keepers.
It was a low, comfortable cottage,
which looked almost as much as if it were a
growth of the soil as did the old trees, which
grew at a respectful distance around it ; for
moss and ivy had covered much of its nakedness,
and the thatched roof came so low that
it left but a narrow strip of stained wall

between the eaves and the dead leaves which
lay deep at its foot. However in this narrow
strip of wall there was a wide old-fashioned
window ; and Dora Rutherford, when she
had emerged from the trees and regarded the
little house with ready appreciation, was
moved by a moment's curiosity to advance to
the window and look in.

Dora peeped in at the window, but immediately
turned away again. Archie was passing
the cottage without a look, and she moved as
if she would go with him. But then she
stopped, and looked back, and then, obedient
to a sudden impulse, she ran to the young
man, caught him by the arm and drew him
to the window.

It was a rich glowing picture which the
under keeper's cottage exhibited to the young
lord, a deep effect of twilight and ruddy
firelight ; and in the firelight and illuminated
by the warm glow was Elizabeth Lock. She
sat on a low three-legged stool with a picture-book
spread open on her lap ; and by her

side and full of wonder stood a small, pale,
freckled boy, to whom lie showed the
pictures. Her own splendid tints showed
with an imperial sumptuousness in that
humble place, and there was a warm smile on
her face, as she told a story for each page.
Her long fur boa lay on the floor and curled
about her feet like a familiar snake. The
child was not pretty, was not even interesting
in appearance, though his mother turned
from the dresser again and again to look at
him, and each time said to herself that it was
no wonder that a lady, however glorious,
should be kind to her Tommy. Tommy was
an interesting invalid, hardly yet recovered
from some childish malady ; and the glorious
lady had come several times to see him, and
had sent to London for the picture-book,
which entranced him.

Archie, looking in upon the dusk and the
warmth and the kindness, felt a sort of warm
glow about his heart also ; but Dora plucked
his sleeve impatiently and he yielded.

For a wonder she didn't look sulky," said
Dora, still drawing him away by the arm.
She meant to provoke him to speech, but he
said nothing.

Quite the effect of a Madonna ! " she
said ; and then, since he still was obstinately
silent, and she felt that she must make lira
speak, she gave a little laugh and cried out,
That's the sort of girl who ought to marry."
No sooner had the words leaped forth
irrevocable, than she gasped and perceived
all which she had dared. Now she hoped
that he would not speak, for his words might
tell her that all was over and that he was in
love with Elizabeth Lock. She felt rather
than saw that he was opening his mouth, and
with a convulsive cry she pinched his arm
fiercely. ^' Hullo?" said he; 'not your
ankle again ? "

Oh no," said she gasping ; " it was only
a sudden something. We were talking of
marriage, weren't we ? We were saying that
no man should dream of it before he is thirty.

VOL. II. I

It is a tremendous risk." She stopped and
looked up at him now, as if she would make
the word " tremendous " even more tremendous
than itself.

You ought to think well of marriage,
anyway," retorted Archie promptly.

Oh, I ! I ! " she cried impatiently ; " what
have I got to do with it ? I am caught and
caged. But you ? you are a free bird still,
and not nearly thirty years old."

Few birds are," said Archie ; " and as to
marriage, I'll tell you when I am going to be
married."

Promise me that," cried Dora, and she
ran lightly down the path before him, laughing
as she ran.

In the small room, to which she had
descended, and in that short time before
dressing, which she was apt to give to a
brief review of the situation, Dora wondered
at her folly, and rebuked herself sharply for
her rashness. Why had she displayed this
dangerous girl in a moment of charm so

unusual ? She asked herself the question,
and could find no answer. Some impulse
had moved her, a touch of remorse, a sudden
desire of fair play, her love of daring, the
sudden temptation of risking all her fine work
of days in one thrilling moment. She
became very grave as she thought that such
are the acts to which men point, maintaining
the unreasonableness of the other sex. Was
she, too, a creature of feminine impulse ?
How great the mischief which she might
have done ! As she sat there looking into
the fire, grave and critical of herself, she
could imagine Archie, the poor innocent,
bursting into that cottage in the wood, kneeling
at the knees of that fairy-tale princess
in herdsman's hut, and begging her to take
him and his bag and baggage, lands and
houses, messuages, tenements, and hereditary
This might have been the result
of her moment's madness ; she trembled as
she looked back upon that moment, and
imagined herself looking in through that low

window, and beholding the simple youth
upon his knees. Any fleet, wild acquiescence
in this marriage, any flying fancy that it did
not matter to her whether it were or were
not, had been followed by as quick reaction ;
she had recoiled as far ; she had been aroused
again to uncompromising defiance. If her
heart had softened to the girl, the girl's
mother had made it harder than ever. Indeed,
over the feminine tea-table there had been a
brisk passage of arms. Some of the newcomers
had embarked with vivacity on the
common topic of their maids, and Lady Jane
had remarked with decision that she knew of
a treasure, who wanted a place. Dora had
asked a question about the treasure; and "Oh,"
said Lady Jane Lock in the presence of these
women, who were all more or less strangers,
she wouldn't do for you ; she is one of the
old-fashioned kind, with old-fashioned ideas."
Then Dora had said very sweetly, that
she should never think of taking a maid on
Lady Jane's recommendation.

'* And why not ? " cried Lady Jane, very
red and straight.

Because you could never help speaking
too kindly of any woman' Dora had answered,
almost tenderly.

There had been quick sword-play among
the tea-cups, and Dora felt that she had borne
herself well ; but yet, when she left the other
women after tea, she was more eager than
ever that Lord Lorrilaire should remain a
bachelor. To see Lady Jane Lock flushed
with triumph would be more than she could
bear. And the recognition of this recovered
zeal brought with it a strange relief. She
was delighted to find that she was more
interested than ever in this duty which she
lead set herself. This was the object of her
coming. She had come to save Archie from
a determined mother-in-law ; this demanded
all her care, all her energy ; she must not
waste a thought just now on any other man.
An eventful evening was before her, an
opportunity of brilliant tactics, perhaps a

serious conflict. At all hazards she would
carry Archie out of the press. And she
would dance too, dance often, dance with
Archie whenever danger threatened ; and so
combine the duties of a guardian with the
pleasures of a happy dancer.

Dora, under the hands of her maid, saw
with pleasure in her glass that the new zeal
had given new colour to her cheek, new
brightness to her eyes. A very radiant young
creature shone back upon her from the
reflecting plane. The last touches were being
given to this brave show, when suddenly
without a word of warning, without a presentiment
which might have come so easily,
she heard that her husband was in the house.

Of course you know, ma'am," said her
maid, provoking and discreet, " that Mr.
Rutherford has arrived."

What ? " cried out Dora, who could not
help a sudden leap under those officious hands,
nor suppress a cry as her hair was twitched
by the movement.

Mr. Rutherford has arrived, ma'am ; and
Lord Lorrilaire is trying to find him a room,
as the house is so very full."

There was a tone of respectful fault-finding
in the maid's voice which annoyed Dora.
Indeed, annoyance was her first and strongest
feeling, as she heard of her husband's arrival.
The sudden news added to her excitement
and produced a new irritation. She perceived
that he could not have chosen a worse time
for his coming. She disliked the idea, which
she knew that he disliked also, of his appearing
an unexpected guest when there were
guests enough already, a trouble more on a
troublesome evening. It was ridiculous fora
husband to arrive uninvited, where a wife
had already intruded without an invitation.
This, however, was a small matter. That
which vexed her keenly, was the knowledge
that his presence on this evening would bean
embarrassment to herself. She had
decided that this evening was critical for
Archie, and that therefore all her skill and all

her energy must be devoted to watching,
guarding, and, if need were, rescuing by
sudden action the friend of her childhood.
Now, if Tom bad come but a few hours
earlier, she could have explained the situation
to him ; he would have been kind if a little
contemptuous of her diplomacy ; he would
have understood why her attention was
engrossed by somebody else ; he would have
kept himself in the background, and left her
to concentrate her attention upon her important
duties. If he had only come a few
hours earlier, no mischief would have been
done ; indeed, if he had come and had found
the house upside down aud scarcely a corner
vacant, he would have gone back to London
before the ball. Of this Dora was certain ;
and she was certain too that the best thing
of all would be that he had not come at all.
She was annoyed with the awkwardness of
events. She had wished for his coming, and
he had not come. Now, when a few hours
were at hand, during which his presence was

an embarrassment, he had come too late and
too soon. She was vexed with the concurrence
of events, vexed with her husband, and
vexed with herself for her vexation, for it
agreed with no one of her theories that she
should be ever vexed by the presence of her
husband. If he had only stayed in London
for a few more days, she would have gone to
him gladly so soon as the Locks had gone,
and asked for his sympathy with her victory.
Now she was sure that she would be conscious
all the evening of her husband's eyes, that her
attention would be constantly distracted, and
the power of helping Archie reduced by at
least half. She foresaw herself nervous and
embarrassed, perhaps at the critical moment
unconscious of the crisis or rushing to the
wrong action.

And all the time another question disturbed
Dora. Why had her husband come suddenly
and without notice ? It was not like him.
As she asked herself this question, she felt an
anxiety which was almost fear. She told

herself that there must be some answer
perfectly simple ; but deep within her an
unacknowledged uneasy doubt of her own
conduct made her fear. She saw with
disgust in the glass that a deep blush was
spreading over face and neck. " Make
haste ! " she said impatiently to her maid ;
but the effect of this impatience was only to
delay, for the maid, flurried by her mistress's
eagerness and with fingers made tremulous
by her mistress's nervousness, was a more
clumsy helper than usual.

Dora was now eager to say a few words to
her husband, before they were swallowed by
the world below ; even a hint of the part
which she had to play, would be of some use.
He would certainly come to her room before
he went downstairs, and, if she were dressed
and her maid dismissed, she would be able to
tell him in a few words and without offence
that she could not spare him much time and
attention on that evening. She was impatient
of his coming.

When at last Tom did come, the door, ashe
opened it, let in the loud roaring of the
gong. It was already late, and Dora's toilette
was not quite finished. As she jumped
lip to greet him a diamond ornament, ill
secured, slipped from her bosom, and catching
in her lace tore a small rent therein ; her
maid went down on her knees with muttered
expressions of dismay ; and Tom came to
kiss her. She took no notice of the rent in
her lace, as she looked at her husband's
face. She was relieved. She saw no sign
of catastrophe, nor of ill-humour. And yet,
though they met as usual, with the usual
few words of welcome and affection, she felt
an embarrassment between them. She did
not ask why he had come, and he said briefly
that he had had no idea that there was a full
house and a ball in prospect, and that Archie
had found him a corner to sleep in. He said
too that they were late, and that he would
go down and ask Mrs. Dormer not to wait
for her. She agreed quickly ; she was

hurriedly gathering gloves and fan and
handkerchief; the open-eared maid was
fluttering and fussing about her ; there was
no chance of even a word of explanation.
When Tom had gone, and in the minutes
which flew by before she followed him, she
was sure that there was something strange
in him. She could not have described any
difference in look or manner ; but her delicate
perception assured her of something new,
and she wondered again and again with an
unpleasant anxiety, what was the real reason
of his coming. She ran downstairs, late and
disquieted, and foreseeing with annoyance
that she would be thinking and wondering
through half the evening about her husband
and about his thoughts of her, while all her
attention should be given to the watching
and guarding of Archie.

During dinner she to some extent recovered
her equanimity, and she consoled herself with
the thought that before the arrival of the ball
people she would find a few minutes for

private talk with her husband ; but it seemed
to her that the men sat longer than usual
over their wine, and, when some of them
came to the drawing-room, they reported
that others, among whom was her husband,
had gone to the smoking-room, since cigarettes
had been forbidden on that evening in the
dining-room, where the ball supper was to be
laid. Dora began to think with renewed
anxiety that her husband was avoiding those
few moments of private talk. Was there
anything between them, which he did not
wish to be put into words ? The recurrence
of such questions proved her nervous state,
and showed her the absolute necessity of a
supreme effort. She tried hard to postpone
all thoughts of her husband to the morrow,
and to concentrate herself on her duty as
guardian of a rich young man. She tried
hard but with only partial success.

CHAPTER IX.

When the men, who had gone to the
smoking-room, at last appeared, the first of
the neighbours had already come and were
standing about, waiting for the music to
begin, and uncomfortably conscious of the
feeling of superiority which distinguished
those who had dined in the house. Dora had
given up all hope of an explanation with her
husband ; and, as she awaited the music, her
courage was ready to respond. She resolved
not to think of her husband during that
evening ; she would keep her task clear
before her ; she awaited the trumpets.
Quick-eyed and alert, she marked the coming
of the smokers and among them her lord,
whom she would straightway dismiss from
her mind. In the same minute she noted

an absence also. There was no Leonard
Yale among them. She supposed that he
would appear presently with a new flower or
some such extravagant explanation of delay ;
but, when the dancing began and still he did
not come, she began to wonder.

'' Isn't it sad about poor Lenny ? " asked a
soft voice beside her, and turning, she looked
into the sympathetic brown eyes of Mrs.
Chauncey.

What's the matter with him ? "

Oh, he is very seedy," said Clara. " Such
a dreadful headache ! He could not face the
ball. Poor fellow ! It is such a disappointment
! He was so looking forward to it ! "

It was a string of soft emphatic sentences.

What a pity ! " said Dora simply.

I ran up to see him, poor dear ! " said
Clara, "just for a minute, and to take him
ray salts. Are you dreadfully shocked ? "

The childlike eyes seemed to ask the
question quite seriously.

Not at all," answered Dora, laughing.

I thought you would be," said Clara
gravely ; '^ but he and I are such old friends ;
that does make a difference, doesn't it ? You
would never do such a thing, I am sure."

"Don't be sure of anything," said Dora
rather tartly. The soft voice irritated her ;
it seemed as if it would put her to sleep,
when she needed to be very wide awake.
As for Lenny's absence, that was a distinct
relief. It was an embarrassment the less.
She had ignored this cause of embarrassment,
when she had considered the presence of her
husband ; but now, when she was certain
that Leonard would not come near her during
all that fateful evening, she felt a surprising
relief. Suddenly, the presence of her lord
and master appeared less troublesome. To
some extent he would distract her, but after
all not much. There was Archie, the poor
boy in danger, the rich boy so hard beset;
there before her eyes was her duty, the
object of her care. She could give all her
mind to this duty, and postpone all thought of

her husband till the morrow. This absence
of Mr. Vale certainly simplified the situation.

As the rooms filled, her spirit rose ; social
feeling and the atmosphere of the dance
possessed her ; and, as the music of the valse
penetrated with gaiety and sadness flowed
around her, there was pleasure too. Young,
brilliant and brave, she was sure of herself
and of the future.

Indeed she needed all her confidence. As
the rooms filled, a rumour began to move
among the people. The man latest from
London had brought it in a column of that
day's number of the new Society paper. It
was a rumour of an engagement. Dora's
quick ears were among the first to catch it ;
half a sentence spoken halfway down the
room had told her all, and the expression of
a fat lady, who was shaking the hand of her
host, confirmed it. One glance at Archie's
face showed how serious was the crisis.

Have you heard it ? " asked Clara, who
was again at her elbow.

VOL. II. K

What ? " asked Dora quickly.

The engagement."

Whose ? "

"Poor young Lord Lorrilaire."

No ; I don't believe it," said Dora stoutly.
Her eyes were fixed on Archie ; she hoped
still ; and yet, though her words were bold,
she feared.

Lenny told me," said Clara softly.

How did he know ? "

I don't know," said Clara innocently ;
'' he had heard it somehow ; I think that it
was that which made him ill ; he is quite
knocked over by it ; it was a bold stroke of
Lady Jane."

Did she send it to the paper ? "

So Lenny says."

Lenny ! " cried Dora impatiently ; " how
feeble of him ! how weak he is ! Why isn't
he here instead of lying down with a
smelling-bottle ? "

Poor Lenny ! " murmured Clara.

He is the only person who knows anything,
and I can't see him."

I suppose not," murmured Clara.

If he has any proof that Lady Jane sent
the paragraph, I could go straight to Archie
and show him this crude trap. He would be
ashamed to step into such a thing. Do you
know ? What did he say to you ? Has he
any proof ? "

'' Oh, I am so sorry," said Clara, looking
with round innocent eyes ; "I never
thought of it. If you could only see him
for a minute ! In an hour it may be too
late."

Dora looked across the room and actually
trembled. Archie was not with Miss Lock ;
that was the only comfort ; she could not seethe
girl, who was not one to be hidden in a
crowd ; but at any moment this eminent
maiden might sail back into the room, and
Archie might go to her and lead her out
again. Dora saw it all almost as clearly as
if the scene were there.

He said," continued Clara, with a little
infantine pout, " that nobody but you could

do anything ; that, if he could see you lor
one minute, he could tell you."

Why doesn't he come ? "

He really could not. He looks so dreadfully
ill. He would terrify the room. Of
course I told him that it was impossible for
you to go to him."

You went," said Dora shortly.

'' Oh, I am so different. I said that you
would never dare."

Dare ? " cried Dora, as at the sound of a
trumpet ; " I dare everything."

'' Oh no," objected Clara softly, but firmly,
I really think not."

How ridiculous ! " cried Dora angrily ;
'^ what is it ? to run up to the Tower Wing
for a minute ! I would do something really
dangerous to save Archie from that woman.
To send a paragraph herself about her own
daughter ! If I could prove that, I would
save him even at the last moment."

Lenny has the proof," murmured Clara.

Then why don't you fetch it ? "

Really, dear," said Clara with a little
laugh, *' I can't keep on running up to the
Tower Wing. Of course it is nothing, as
you say, but the truth is that I have been up
twice already ; and besides, he won't tell me
anything ; he is racked with pain, poor
fellow ! and he won't say anything except
that nobody but you can do anything and
that he must see you. I tried to explain to
the poor creature that it was out of the
question."

Why is it out of the question ? "

Isn't it out of the question ? I thought
that you were so conventional."

Conventional ! " cried Dora full of scorn,
and with eyes still fixed on Archie.

Isn't it out of the question ? " repeated
Clara. Dora answered nothing, but continued
to gaze across the room.

Would you go ? " asked Clara, with the
tone and air of a child who persists in asking-wearisome,
innocent questions.

*' No," said Dora ; " certainly not."

As the words left her lips, she saw Archie
move and go towards the door at the further
end of the room. She saw that, without
obvious intention, she could reach the doorway
at the same time ; she started from
Clara's side, gained her goal, and turning,
found Archie's face not two yards away.
There was a slight block at the doorway ; he
could not force a passage ; she had time to
look at him ; she had never seen his face so
grave. She felt the imminence of the crisis ;
she perceived, most momentous sign of all,
that he did not even see her.

There was a movement in the little crowd,
and Archie, advancing, passed a man, who
instantly laid a hand on his arm and murmured
some question with a fatuous friendly
smile. There could be no doubt what that
question was. " I am afraid I am not so
fortunate," said Archie rather stiffly. The
mere words were comforting to Dora, but the
tone was equivocal, and his looks filled her
with uneasiness. He made his way through

the doorway, passing close to her and without
a sign of recognition ; there was an
alarming air of purpose about him. " Is it
true ? " asked somebody on Dora's other side.

Oh, I think so," answered another ; '^ it
always is true in that family."

Dora set her little teeth and began to make
her way in the wake of the threatened youth.
She had scarcely moved, when she was
stopped short by a firm impediment. Lady
Jane was in the path, firm and strong, like a
rock of red sandstone. ^' Dear Mrs. Rutherford
! " she said with frank geniality.

Yes ? " said Dora feebly, fearing lest the
next words would announce the awful fact.

How very ill you are looking ! " said
Lady Jane.

Thanks," said Dora, moving as if she
would pass. But the crowd remained, and
Lady Jane blocked the easiest passage.

I am quite distressed," said Lady Jane ;
you look so flushed and nervous. Perhaps
the sudden appearance of your husband."

She finished her sympathetic speech with a
strident laugh.

You are, as always, too kind," said Dora
quickly, pushing forward as she spoke. But
Lady Jane Lock was not an easy woman to
pass in a doorway. Low of stature, and very
firmly planted on her feet, she barred the
way to anybody who was not active enough
to leap over her.

"You young married women," she said,
go in a great deal too much for excitement.
I shall speak to Mr. Rutherford about you.
I shall recommend a good long spell of quiet
life in the country."

With you, I hope," said Dora quickly ;
will you let me pass, please ? "

Why, whom are you looking for ? I am
sure you are very flattering to him. We did
not have to run after our partners. How sad
about poor Mr. Yale, isn't it ? "

Very," said Dora ; " but I must go. I
am looking for Archie."

For Archie ! " exclaimed Lady Jane, in

apparent surprise ; *' ain't sou afraid of being
de trope The triumph in her eye was
maddening. Wild suggestions came to Dora;
she was impelled by some memory of pantomime
tricks to point to something behind her
obstructor, and to slip by, as she turned, or
even to trip her up, if need were. Prudence,
or a sense of the decorum which the world
required, prevented the ignominious prostration
of Lady Jane Lock.

I am never afraid of being de trap with
Archie," Dora said bravely, and was answered
by nothing but a laugh full of intention and
discord. Dora could stand no more ; trembling
with indignation, she turned her back on
the enemy, and retraced her steps with speed.
She went straight to Clara.

I will go," she said.

I will go first and tell him," cried Clara
promptly.

Quick then ! " cried Dora ; " that is better ;
I shall find you there."

Yes " said Clara.

Oh, that woman ! Anything to beat her !
Quick ! " she added, pushing Clara by the
arm ; '' quick ! I can only be away two
minutes."

Little Mrs. Chauncey slipped away from
the room. She had a talent for gliding here
and there, through crowds and other obstacles,
and always unobserved.

CHAPTER X.

Dora was right in thinking that the face of
young Lord Lorrilaire was eloquent of purpose.
When he had passed the doorway in
which Lady Jane Lock had barred the passage
of Mrs. Rutherford, he walked straight and
quickly across the room beyond to the opposite
door. This door led into one of those smaller
rooms which careful ball-givers prepare for
conversation ; and here Elizabeth Lock was
sitting with a young man, who had been her
partner in the last dance. Two or three
people made way for Archie, as he came,
with knowing looks ; a young couple came
out from the little room as he reached the
door ; and, as he entered, the young man
rose from beside Miss Lock. Elizabeth rose
too, as if she would return with him to the

ball-room ; but Archie went straight to her
with so plain a claim on her attention, that
the other youth, after a minute's hesitation,
smiled and bowed, and went out alone. He
had scarcely passed the doorway, when Archie
had asked Elizabeth to be his wife. The
exact form of words had been settled as he
crossed the outer room.

Oh, thank you," said the girl, with heartfelt
gratitude ; she held out her hand to him
with the frankest cordiality. He took her
hand respectfully in his, staring at her with
wonder ; he had expected success, but not
gratitude ; he did not know what to say.

It is so good of you to ask me," she said.

Good of me ? " he asked, still wondering.

Yes, and I thank you with all my heart'
she answered, and she shook his hand before
she let it go.

Then it's all right," he said rather stupidly ;
** it's agreed then ; you will marry me ? "

No, no, no ! "

"What?"

Did you think that I would be so mean ? "
she asked indignantly ; " did you think that
I would marry a man because he asks me —
because people talk ? I can't express myself
properly, but you know what I mean ; you
know that you only ask me because people
are talking, and you are generous and nice
and not like other men, and so you come and
say this, and I can never thank you enough.
It has been so horrid ! I hated to run after
you in London, and I hated coming here, and
staying and staying, and getting new gowns
at the end of the season, and I almost hated
you ; I should have hated you if I hadn't
liked you ; and now there's some horrid gossip
in some paper, and so you come to ask me,
and it is so awfully good of you and I shall
never forget it."

Archie had not a word to say. The girl
had spoken quickly and eagerly, as if she had
long wished to say the words. She looked so
frank, so honest, and so friendly, that he did
not doubt her for a moment.

What can I say ? " he said. " You must

not think that I " And here he stopped,

and she laughed.

" You know that what I say is true," she
said ; "so do let us say no more, and take
me back to the ball-room."

But he still stood looking at her rather
foolishly. He was relieved, but yet not much ;
he was almost offended by her extreme pleasure
in refusing him ; he was grateful but not
gratified ; he would have liked to see in hera
little regret, a suspicion of tenderness, a
shade of doubt.

'^ What am I to say ? " he asked at last.
When I go out of this room people will
come to congratulate' me."

Not if we go out together," she said.

But we can't stay together, since you
won't have it so," he said rather gloomily.

Say there is nothing in it," she said ;
and so will I. It will be much harder forme,
for women never will let one alone ; they
are much more curious than men."

I shall say that you won't take me," said
Archie.

Oh, please don't," she said ; " I should
have such a dreadful row with mother.*

He laughed at the change in her voice, but
without much enjoyment. " You will have
to tell her," he said.

Yes," she said ; " more or less, tomorrow ;
I want to be happy now, so take me back,
please." She looked so kind and glorious,
that he wondered if he were not foolish to
yield so easily to her wishes. " I shall have
to tell mother tomorrow," she said ; " but I
shall put most of the blame on you."

What a shame ! " he said, and he began
to laugh again.

It won't hurt you," she said, " and I shall
catch it enough any way. I shall only say
that you only said what you said because it
was expected of you, and that it was impossible
for any girl to say ' yes.' "

But that's not true," he said.

It was impossible for me to say ' yes.' "

'' Why ? "

'' You mustn't ask that," she said quickly ;
*' you will begin it all over again."

"Well, why not?" This time it was he
who held out his hand to her.

No, no, no," she said again. " You are
really glad to be free."

He would have protested, but a voice, or soit
seemed, from deep within bim said plainly
that he would be glad when he woke in the
morning. So he kept silence. He was still
standing first on one leg and then on the
other, unwilling to go or stay, conscious of
the unsatisfactoriness of things, not knowing
what to say, when a dancing young man,
conscious of nothing but the importance of
dancing every dance and each with the proper
person, hurried in and claimed Miss Lock.
She promptly put her hand on the arm of the
new-comer, and with a last look full of friendship
and intelligence for the rejected Archie,
passed out into the more brilliant light of the
ball-room, while her new partner chirped of
floors and music.

Archie, flushed, excited, provoked, aroused,
felt no wish to follow the girl, and a strong
wish to avoid the crowd for a few minutes at
least. He pushed aside the muslin curtains
which draped the long window, and opening
the window itself, passed through it into the
great tent, which covered the terrace. In
the tent too there were some people, and he
fancied curious looks and comments ; and so
he turned again and went out from the tent
and down the steps, which led from the terrace
to the park. It was a night most wonderfully
fair for this late autumn time, and, flushed
as he was, Archie felt only an agreeable coolness
as he met the air. He drew a deep
breath from the sweet night, but the next
moment, before he had stepped from the
lowest step to the grass, he started. He was
close to the shrubbery which concealed the
little door of the old secret staircase of the
Tower Wing, and in the shadow of this shrubbery
he spied the flutter of white drapery and
heard a deep sepulchral tone. Was it the

VOL. II. L

family ghost ? With half-attentive ear he
had received the tale of the distinguished
Rayner ghost. What if, whenever the
representative of the family was rejected,
that Castle Spectre was condemned to
walk ?

Ninety-nine ! " said slowly and solemnly
the same deep voice, and Archie put his hand
on his mouth that he might not stop the
ceremony with untimely laughter. Tony
had led a partner forth to view the beauty of
the night, and then, as he considered the
rashness of the act, and the danger of a
sudden chill, sentiment had given place to
science, and he had begun to demonstrate to
the astonished maiden the method of his
salutary exercise.

Ninety-nine, ninety-nine, ninety-nine ! "
repeated the Castle Spectre in pursuit of
health ; and Archie now allowed his laughter
natural way, but it was stopped at the first
note by a scream. The incantation ceased,
Tony's disciple screamed in sympathy and.

Archie, leaping through the small shrubbery,
found Clara Chauncey leaning against the
wall, pale and breathless. The door of the
secret staircase was half-open beside her.

What is it ? " asked Clara, gasping, conscious
of a human presence.

It's Tony," said Archie.

Oh, oh ! " gasped Clara ; " how sills of
me ! I thought it was your ghost — the
family ghost — they are the only things I am
afraid of. A minute, and I shall be all
right." Supporting herself against the wall
with one hand, she pulled the little door to
with the other. " Oh, Mr. Tony," she said,
as Mr. Fotheringham and his partner now
appeared, ^' I shall never forgive you. My
nerves ! "

If it's your nerves," said Tony, " you
can't do anything better than this exercise,
which I was just showing to Miss Robertson.
You bend a little forward, you see, and go
up and down so, and you keep 
! ' "

It is a comfort to see you," said Clara,
and to know that you are human."

The girl, who now felt herself informally
introduced, asked if she could do nothing for
Mrs. Chauncey ; but Clara declined all help,
saying with emphasis that she would be
quite well in a minute, and rebuking Tony
for allowing his partner to stand about in
the open air. Thus aroused to a full sense
of his iniquity, Mr. Fotheringham tucked
Miss Robertson's hand within his arm and
hurried her away to the safer atmosphere of
the tent.

"• We must go too," said Clara, after a
minute, with a smile. She was aware that
Archie was regarding her with some curiosity
and was wondering; how she came there.
She stood straight that she might test her
steadiness, and Archie offered her his arm ;
but as they began to move, they heard a
stumbling noise behind them, and in another
moment the little door was burst open again,
and a man rushed out. In his haste he

dashed against Archie, who seized him and
held him fast. He saw that it was Leonard
Yale.

What is it ? " he asked, shaking him not
too gently, for Leonard was panting and
seemed incapable of speech. He looked from
Lennv to Clara, who seemed to have recovered
all her strength. " Here ! you look after
him," he cried, pushing him to Clara ; " and
ril see what's the matter." Leonard made a
clutch at him as if he would prevent him
from going, but Archie, striking aside his
arm, dashed through the door and up the
secret staircase.

CHAPTER XL

When" Dora had made up her mind to visit
the Tower Wing, she made no long delay,
and yet it seemed an age before the moment
came, and she could slip away unobserved.
Upstairs she ran, hurrying, as people hurry
who wish to give themselves no time for
hesitation. By this time she knew the house
well, and she had no need to stop and think
before she reached the Tower Wing and
stood at the door of Leonard Yale's den.
Nor did she stop there ; she knocked at
once and sharply on the door, and so soon
as he had answered, she turned the handle
and went in. She caught her breath ; she
felt the dim luxury of the room, the shaded
lights and sumptuous things; she saw Leonard
Yale standing opposite, near to the window,

this hands on the back of a chair. She looked
quickly for another figure.

Where is Mrs. Chauncey ? " she asked.

Mrs. Chauncey ? Clara ? " he said
vaguely. " What do you want of Clara
Chauncey ? "

Dora closed the door and came a step
nearer, saying eagerly —

*' She says that you have some proof that
Lady Jane sent that paragraph to the paper ;
it is my only chance of stopping Archie's
marriage ; you must tell me quick ; I can't
stay a minute."

Not stay ? " he murmured.

Only a minute. Quick ! "

Not stay," he repeated, " when you've
done so much for me ; when you've come
here, here to my rooms, here to me ? "

Dora looked at him with growing displeasure.
As she saw more clearly in the
dim light, his pale face seemed to be
flushed unnaturally, and his eyes had a
glassy look.

Tell me at once," she said firmly and
distinctly, " what yon know of Lady Jane
and the paper ; tell me at once, or T shall
go.

Oh, don't go," he said plaintively.

"Will you tell me?" she asked, and she
moved backward to the door and put her
hand on the handle.

As she went back, he came forward.
Why don't you trust me, Dora ? " he asked.

Dora ! How dare you ? " she cried out
in answer.

And how dare you ! " be cried with
sudden anger ; " it's too late for these airs.
What right have you to be so charming and
so cold ? "

Dora stamped her foot upon the floor.
Stay where you are," she said, and he
stood still. " Now tell me, if you can think
and speak, what proof you can give me that
Lady Jane Lock sent that paragraph about
Archie's engagement to the paper. That is
all which I choose to hear. Tell me that,

and don't say a word more, and take care
how you speak to me."

And take care how you speak to me," he
answered fiercely ; " you've gone too far for
that. What would your Lady Jane say if
she knew that you were here now with me,
alone with me ? "

Are you threatening me ? "

No — yes — I don't know what I say ;
you make me mad." He stumbled over the
footstool as he came, and caught the table,
that he might steady himself.

Dora had turned the handle of the door,
but now in the moment's silence she stood
still with the door half-open in her hand.
Be still ! " she said in a whisper ; " there is
somebody coming." She peered into the
passage, which was almost dark ; but a light
hung on the wall at the far end, and, if anyone
were coming, she would see him there.
She heard a fatuous laugh behind her, but
she could waste no time in scorn ; she watched
the light. In a minute she drew back into the

room with her hand pressed hard against her
side. " It's Tom," she said, " mj husband."

As she fell back from the door, Lenny
rushed at it. " The key's gone," he cried —
here, quick, this way ! " He dashed open
the door of his bedroom. '' There's a way
through, a staircase ; I'll show you — quick !
for God's sake, quick ! "

No," said Dora. " I won't run from my
husband."

Are you mad ? Come."

You must explain," she said.

^' Explain ! Curse the woman ! Will you
come ? " He caught her by the arm, but she
wrenched herself from his hand. '' Will you
come ? " he cried ; " do you think I'll stay
here to be murdered ? Damn you ! " He
rushed into his bedroom and in the next
moment the door from the passage was
opened and Tom Rutherford came in. Dora
had retreated further back into the room ;
tumultuous feelings, shame, scorn, and fear,
possessed her ; she stood erect with an effort;

she would not touch the table on which that
man had leant.

Who was Yv^ith you here ? " asked her
husband.

How dare you speak to me like that ? "
she cried out at him, and then suddenly sank
down upon a chair, and was shaken with a
dry sobbing, for no tears came.

He did not come a step nearer. " Tell me
who was with you," he said.

She made a great effort to control her sobs,
and suddenly she sat up listening ; she heard
sounds of somebody coming from the bedroom
; she was in amazement ; she could not
think that he was coming back. The door,
which Lenny had slammed behind him, was
opened, and Archie came quickly into the
room. He was out of breath ; he looked
quickly from husband to wife.

Tom stepped towards him with relief plain
written in his face. " It was you who just
left Dora ? " he said.

'^ Yes," said Archie.

CHAPTER XII.

When the night had passed, reaction came
with the morning. The cold light of a day
of late November displayed the seamy side
of all the bravery of the ball. Without and
within men were removing decorations, which
adorned no more ; on the terrace lay bare
poles where the gay pavilion had stood. The
hothouse flowers, a little dissipated and weary,
had gone back to their hothouses ; the hothouse
women, their petals also touched here
and there by glare of light and too late hours,
were sleeping in their beds. In the rooms
servants were busy restoring things to their
usual place ; other servants slipped silently
down the passages with little trays for the
late risers. Only the eminently energetic
appeared at the breakfast-table, and among

them the most eminent of the energetic, Lady
Jane Lock.

Lady Jane had slept less soundly than she
was wont to sleep. Who knows what visions
had haunted her admirable pillow ? Had she
dreamed of the names of dressmakers, stay-makers,
carriage-makers, or calculated incomes
in her sleep, and estimated gems ? Doubts,
as she lay on this side, hopes, as she lay
on that, these were her portion. She had
supped well, too, and at a late hour. Is it
strange that she was restless ? She awoke
hot and irritable ; she was inclined to linger
on her couch, but a sense of duty made her
rise, a sense of duty and an overpowering
cariosity. She could not believe but that all
would be well ; and yet she was beset again
and again by uneasy doubt. How far did
she understand Lord Lorrilaire ? and how far
did she understand her own child ? It was
this latter question which exasperated her.
She stole across the passage in her dressing-gown
and slippers to see if Elizabeth were

yet awake ; but Elizabeth was sleeping like
an infant with a smile upon her lips. She
was inclined to shake her, but she knew well
how much might depend on her child looking
well on that day, and with admirable self-control
she refrained. She would not mar
such beauty-sleep which might be worth —
what might it not be worth in solid cash ?
She went back to her own chamber and
finished her toilet. Even when she was
completely dressed, her daughter was still
sleeping ; and the good mother descended the
staircase, anxious, curious, but summoning all
her forces, that she might bear herself with
dignity before critical feminine eyes. She
only hoped that Susan Dormer would not be
there.

Susan Dormer was there. When Lady
Jane entered the dining-room, and saw her
friend smiling vaguely over the tea-pot, it
seemed to her positively malicious in that
restful lady to have come down so early
on the morning after a ball. There was

only one other woman present, and she was
a vigorous young lady, who, perhaps for
lack of other charms, made a point of
proving on all occasions that she needed no
female indulgence, and could rough it like
a man.

This young lady had trotted backwards and
forwards between her place and the side-table,
and, as she would have put it, had done herself
remarkably well. Two ladies, and not
more than three men, of whom one was Mr.
Fotheringham, who had risen for health's
sake, were dotted here and there at the large
table ; and it did seem to Lady Jane that
Susan could have joined the small party for
no other object than her aggravation.

Susan smiled on her too with such provoking
amiability, as she poured out her tea and
gave it to her, as she always gave it to her,
in spite of daily instructions, black and
bitter.

Mr. Tony was telling us such a strange
tale as you came in," said Mrs. Dormer ; " he

was wandering about in the park, and heard
a female shriek, and I don't know what ; I
have not the least idea what it is all about,
but I am sure that it is dreadfully improper."

Who shrieked ? " asked Lady Jane,
turning upon Tony.

Oh, it was nothing," said Tony, abashed ;
*' she only took me for the good old ghost."

'^ You for a ghost ! "

'^ Yes, you see I was just doing my little
exercise — you know it, don't you, Lady
Jane ? "

'' No."

It's awfully good for you, you know ;
you just bend your body "

My dear Mr. Tony," said Mrs. Dormer,
you really must spare us the details ; I am
sure they are most improper ; and besides,
poor dear Jane is not good at bending, are
you, dear ? "

To this Lady Jane returned no answer ;
and her friend continued : '^ Well, there was
a female shriek, and a lady at the foot of the

old tower stairs with her hand on her heart,
gasping, and mj nephew Archie flying to
her support "

Lady Jane looked up now, and felt herself
burning.

*^ Ah," said Susan Dormer, answering her
friend's unspoken question ; '' Mr. Tony is
dreadfully discreet ; he won't tell us the lady's
name. And I am sure there is a mystery ;
for now I hear that Leonard Yale has gone
to London by the milk train and in his dress-clothes
; and no human being ever before
travelled by the milk train."

'' Has he gone alone ? " asked Lady Jane,
savagely, as she sat down her cup of bitterness.


Presumably, my dear," said Mrs. Dormer.

*' I thought perhaps " began Lady

Jane.

Oh, naturally, dear," said sirs. Dormer,
suavely.

And Mr. Tony will not divulge the lady's
name ? " said Lady Jane again. " Perhaps

VOL. n. M

he knows if the gentleman has gone
alone ? "

''He hasn't taken his man," said Tony,
innocently.

Mrs. Dormer began to laugh.

But the story is not ended yet, Jane.
Lenny went by the milk train "

Lenny ! " exclaimed Lady Jane, with
disapproval.

And who do you think went by the
next ? "

I really can't say," said Lady Jane, " and
I do not care to guess."

Archie," said Mrs. Dormer.

What ? " cried out the other lady. Awful
doubts rushed in upon her. What was this ?
Had Archie fled ? Was this the end ? She
half rose.

'^ Oh," said her friend Susan, '* he has gone
an hour ago ; you can't catch him."

At this the manly young lady could not
suppress a squeak of appreciation ; and a
minute later Tony, who was rather slow at

perceiving the force of a speech, nearly choked
over his cup. Then was seen the true
strength of an indomitable Httle woman.
Lady Jane controlled herself with an heroic
effort. She did not plump down again into
her seat, though her knees were loosened.
She left her place and walked bravely round
to her hostess, with her teacup in her hand.

I do wish, Susan," she said, " that you
would not try to poison me."

Oh, good gracious ! " said Mrs. Dormer.

Kindly fill my cup up with hot water.
Has your nephew gone for long ? " she asked,
as she returned to her place.

It was a sublime example of female
courage ; her heart was beating wildly as she
asked the question. Perhaps Susan Dormer
felt a little sorry for her friend. It is certain
that after regarding her for a minute with a
gentle contemplative air, and with her little
mouth innocently ajar, she answered her
question with a small dose of encouragement.

'' He may come back," she said ; " he did

change Ins clothes, but he has taken no others
with him, and his man is to wait for orders.
If he doesn't send for luggage, you are safe."

Lady Jane laughed, but the laughter
sounded harsh in her own ears.

I certainly hope to see him come back,"
she said ; '"' he was not here to receive us,
and if he is not here to say good-bye, I shall
certainly think him the strangest host that I
have ever met."

Her voice almost broke before she reached
the end of her sentence ; she felt as if she
could not speak another word upon the
subject. But now, to her great relief, another
batch of guests made their appearance, and
among them Mr. and Mrs. Rutherford. Dora
and her husband came into the room together.
Lady Jane Lock looked at them curiously, and
with no friendly regard ; but if there were
any change in either of them, it was too
subtle for the somewhat dull perception of
this lady. Dora sat down at once at the table,
and her husband got her some breakfast.

'* We are obliged to be prompt," he said to
Mrs. Dormer, '' for we go by the 11.30. Oh
no, thanks," he added, in answer to a vague
murmur of his hostess ; " please don't bother
Sir Yilliers : he has enough to attend to ; I
have ordered a fly."

Lady Jane, listening, was tormented by
new doubts. Was Mrs. Rutherford going
because her defence of Lord Lorrilaire was
no longer necessary, or because she had given
up his defence in despair ? Or was her
husband taking her away for reasons of his
own j^

You know that Archie has gone ? " asked
Mrs. Dormer.

Yes," said Tom ; ^' he sent a line to my
room to say that he should not be here to say
good-bye."

'^ And Mr. Yale too," said Lady Jane,
whom anxiety and irritability would not
suffer to be silent ; " it appears that mr. Yale
has gone off in his dress-clothes, and in what
Susan calls the milk train. Is it not extraordinary

? I say there must be some joke in
it, and I am sure that Mrs. Rutherford is in
the jest."

No," said Dora.

Do you mean to say that you ain't in the
secret ? "

Dora looked up as if she were ready to
engage, but only shook her head slightly and
drank her tea.

'' If you have done your breakfast," her
husband said to her, '^ you had better see if
your maid has finished the packing ; she
ought to be off in ten minutes."

He rose, as he spoke, with his watch in his
hand, and there was a general rise of those
who had breakfasted, among whom Dora left
the room.

CHAPTER XIII.

When Archie reached London, the day was
still young ; he drove straight to Leonard
Yale's lodgings. The sitting-room, into
which the visitor was shown, suggested
yesterday's atmosphere, a faint smell of dust,
a faint smell of patchouli. A blouse housemaid,
with her cap awry, who in the absence
of the gentleman's gentleman had admitted
the visitor to this sanctum, now pounded on
the bedroom door. Lenny was lying down
within, but, when he had learned who
awaited him and a certain time had passed,
he came out, clad gorgeously in a silken
smoking-suit, but looking white and angry.
They exchanged no words of greeting, and
there was an awkward pause.

Well, what is it ? " asked Leonard at last,
with a forced laughs'! don't know what
right you've got to question me, but fire
away."

I don't want to question you," said
Archie ; " I know enough."

"Well, then, what do you want ? I am
deucedly tired, and, if you've nothing to say,
I'll go to bed." He spoke with a sickly air
of indifference.

I only came to tell you," said Archie,
'that you mustn't live any more in my
house."

Your house ! your house ! " cried out the
other, with sudden fury ; " I was there before
you ever dreamed of owning it ; but it's
always the way. — Put a beggar on horseback
! "

I never begged," said Archie.

I suppose you mean that I did ? "

'* No, not from me, at least," said Archie ;
*' I pressed it on you."

You needn't remind me that I am in

your pay ; I know it well enough," said
Leonard Yale bitterly.

Never mind that," said Archie ; " we
need not go into that ; you seem to be comfortable
enough here anyway — only would
you mind my opening the window ? I am a
lunatic for fresh air." He waited a minute,
and then, as Leonard said nothing, he pushed
open the window.

I may live here, then ? " asked Leonard
presently, with all the sarcasm which he
could command.

^' Live where you like, except in any house
of mine," said Archie bluntly.

And I suppose," said Lenny, after a
pause, " that you will announce to the world
that you have been obliged to turn me out of
the house."

I shall announce nothing to the world,"
said Archie. " The world is not likely to be
violently excited about the matter; nor
would the world think it strange that I take
my house into my own hands."

Then we are all to get the sack," said
Leonard with his aggravating levity, " the
great Sir Yilliers and Mrs. Dormer and I."

No — only you at present," said Archie.

What have I done ? What the devil do
you " began Leonard furiously.

I'll tell you what you have done," said
Archie ; " you have so behaved yourself in
my house "

Your house ! "

You have so behaved yourself in my
house," repeated Archie, " that you have
come near to compromising my dearest
friend."

Behaviour ! Compromising ! " exclaimed
Leonard Yale with a sneer. " Where have
you lived ? What have I done that any man
of the world would not think fair ? "

I don't care," said Archie, " what your
man of the world would think. I act as I
think myself. I think it wrong — for one
thing — to make love to another man's wife."

Leonard looked at him with unfeigned

astonishment. He was somewhat relieved
also, inferring rapidly that his benefactor
knew only this part of his conduct. " If I
am to hear a sermon," he said, " I should like
to sit down ; only you will have the room
so plaguy cold."

Archie saw that the other's white teeth
were almost chattering in his head. He said
nothing, but went to the window and shut it.
Then Leonard sank into a low chair doubling
his smoking-coat about his chest with his
long white hands and huddling himself together
as if for warmth.

And when it comes' said Archie, " to
trying to entangle a woman who means no
soit of harm "

Lenny laughed, and Archie turned upon
him with sudden anger. " You don't dare to
hint any harm of Dora Rutherford," he said.

No. Curse it ! No," said Leonard
Yale ; " who wants to hint, or to speak
either. Why will you take things like
that?" he went on plaintively ; ^'it's making

a fuss about nothing — about nothing but a
little harmless flirtation. She didn't mind."

Take care what you say," said Archie.
If sou ever say a word against her, or
annoy her in any way — I'll put it so that
your man of the world can understand — payment
stops."

Who wants to say a word against her,"
said Leonard almost whining ; *' except that
she's a heartless coquette ? That's what she
is, a heartless coquette. She made me mad,
and then she turned on me with her cursed
Puritan airs. Yes, I know that I got out of
hand. My excuse is that I was drunk."

Oh, that's your excuse ? Is that a good
excuse in the eyes of your man of the world ?
You ought not to be drunk when you talk to
a lady ! "

*' It was damned bad form," said Lenny
lightly.

And it was damned bad form to runaway,"
said Archie grimly.

Thereupon Leonard Yale broke into 

«2 — ■ .

enemies. " Oh, my God ! " he cried at last,
shaking; and holding; hard to the arms of Ris
chair. " Will you take a challenge to the
man ? I'll cross to-night by the Calais boat ;
I'll go anywhere and wait any time if he'll
only meet me."

'' You would have done better to wait at
the time," said Archie.

Don't I tell you that I was drunk," said
Leonard fiercely.

And so, because you were drunk," said
Archie, " and being drunk behaved uncommonly
badly, you want my friend to
cross the Channel for a chance of being
killed."

I know the fellow's a coward," said
Lenny between his teeth ; *' I know he
wouldn't meet me."

You can say that," said Archie, " if it's
any comfort to you ; but you know that you
don't believe it. I think he would kill you,
if it came to killing, but that's not to the
point."

'' Well, anyway," cried the recumbent
youth, " I wish to Heaven you would go.
This room is mine anyway, and I don't see
why I should be baited." He spoke with one
of his sudden changes of manner, as if he
gave everything up, and nothing were important
but permission to lie limp in his
well-stuffed chair.

'' I'll go," said Archie ; " I've said what I
had to say." He stopped with his hand on
the door and looked at his cousin, and, as he
looked upon his prostrate feebleness, his
ready pity returned. After all, this was so
little like a man, so weak, so little dangerous.
To be angry with such an one seemed as vain
as to be afraid of him. He sprawled there a
scarcely responsible product of luxury, indulgence,
and corruption. There came back
to Archie's mind a warning of John Stuart
Mill, who had written somewhere that we
had yet to see what a generation would
be which had grown up without romance.
Here seemed a specimen of this generation.

to whom romance was as absurd as duty,
gaping for pleasure, but without energy for
its pursuit. It was a comfort to Archie to
transfer his indignation from this prostrate
youth to the Materials of the Age. " By
God ! " he said, with an unusual violence of
expression, 'rit would be better to break
stones ! Why can't you find something todo?"


Leonard only rolled himself in his place ;
but then there dawned on him a speech which
might give pain, and he said —

You don't do much."

Archie was rather startled ; he frankly
recognized a certain element of truth.

That's true," he said ; " but I shall try todo
something, and if you'll ever try, come tome,
and I'll help you."

Even as he spoke, hopelessness possessed
him ; his words sounded like mockery. Perhaps
the other youth received them in this
way. He yawned and groaned as if weary
of phrases. It struck Archie that no communication,

but that of a fiver, could fix this
wandering attention. To take money he
would probably put out his hand. Archie
regarded him with exasperation and pity.
What could he say ? His words had that
uncomfortable trick, too common in words, of
assuming a character which he did not mean
them to assume. He cast about for some
new form of speech.

Anything must be better," he said at last
with emphasis, *•' than spending your life in
sneaking about after women."

But Leonard only answered with a sort of
howl, in which derision, weariness, remorse,
found voice.

'^ Good-bye," said Archie, feeling that he
had been a fool to wait with his hand on the
door ; and he went out now and shut the
door firmly behind him.

CHAPTER Xii.

When Archie left Leonard Yale's lodgings,
he had good reason to be pleased with his
success. He had pursued this doubtful cousin
to town, but anxiety had been his comrade on
the way. Before he left Langley he had
received a little hurriedly-pencilled note from
Dora ; and from this unhappy little note, and
from that which he himself had seen, he had
inferred Leonard's conduct of the previous
evening with considerable accuracy. Still
he had pursued him with great anxiety, for
he had been unable to prophesy what this
man might or might not say or do ; he had
felt as if he were advancing on to a quicksand
; he had been forced to believe in a
weakness which he had not imagined possible,
and which might be harder to deal with than

VOL. II. jj

all the resources of consummate strength and
courage. To no motive was he certain of
being able to appeal but to self-interest alone ;
and he feared that this shifting soul was
capable of forming the most erroneous and
inconsistent opinions even of his own interests.
He could not rest until he had seen Leonard
and said what he had to sav, but he had not
hoped that the interview would be short and
on the whole satisfactory.

As Archie summed up the results of the
interview, he confessed himself fortunate.
Leonard Yale had accepted his decree of
banishment ; and that meant the conclusion of
a most disagreeable matter. Also he had made
no serious attempt to defend his conduct except
by the plea of drunkenness. Also — and
this was the really important matter — he had
made no serious attempt to blame Dora. He
had shown bitterness and spite ; he had tried
to assume the tiresome, old devil-may-care
manner in speaking of women in general, the
eternal knowingness of immature youth, the

sickly flavour of stacks of second-rate French
novels ; but all this only emphasized the fact
that he did not pretend that any one but
himself alone was to blame for the unfortunate
situation of the evening before. Archie now
felt sure that Lenny had mastered that most
obvious view of what was good for him,
which was the mere view of cash. If no
better motive ruled his tongue, or kept him
from annoying Dora Rutherford, the few
words about his allowance, which it had cost
Archie so disagreeable an effort to say, would
be sufficiently effective. Archie himself, ashe
left behind him the prostrate youth and
the faint close odours, began at once to
believe in the possibility of the better motives.
His persistent optimism began to grow
again with its accustomed vigour ; he could
not help thinking that even Lenny would be
capable of some chivalrous feeling for the
woman whom his folly and vanity had led
into a position so painful. Already he was
considering what occupation he could hope

to find for this difficult young man, when he
had leisure for the search.

At present Archie had not leisure. One
task was done, but others no less difficult remained
before him. He went to the Rutherford'
house and was told that they would
arrive there in time for luncheon. He left
a card, having written on it the name of the
hotel at which he meant to stay for the next
day or two ; he thought that he would receive
a letter there. He was very unquiet. He
walked the pavements, stopping now and
then to stare into shop windows with indifferent
eyes, thinking many thoughts, and
most of them uneasy. He supposed that all
the party were melting away from Langley
Castle ; he imagined their expressions of surprise
and regret at his absence ; their good
opinion seemed more important than usual.
This vision of flys and luggage reminded
him of something which he must do ; he
turned into a telegraph-office and telegraphed
for a portmanteau of clothes. Then he

walked about again ; it was as if a gadfly
stung him ; the gadfly was a little word
which he had spoken the night before. The
little word was a lie. Had he been right or
wrong? The very spring of his faith had
always been that no good came of lies.

As he grew tired, he grew more doubtful,
more depressed. He remembered that he
had been hard on Lenny, and with justice ;
but was he one who had a right to mete out
justice SO severe ? He almost thought at times
that he ought to return to Lenny, to tell him
the conclusion of the story, and let him have
his turn at blaming. Walking moodily
towards his hotel he met Clara Chauncey
driving' westward in her rather shabby
Victoria ; she faced the pleasant sunlight,
and her eyes were closed ; she looked like a
cat, faintly smiling ; he could almost fancy
that he heard her purring, as she was borne
smoothly past.

All through the long evening, which he
spent at the hotel, Archie was expecting a

note from Dora, or perhaps from Tom ; but
no note came. In the morning there was no
note. He became more and more uneasy.
The long morning passed slowly away, and
in the early afternoon he went again to the
Rutherfordss' house.

Archie felfc guilty as he rang Tom Rutherford's
bell. It was awfully plain to him that
he was going unasked to the house of a man
whom he had injured. He caught himself
walking softly, as he followed the servant to
the stairs, lest Tom should hear and recognize
his footsteps. Such feelings, such conduct in
himself, were unbearable to him ; a quick end
must be put to them ; and yet he must
consider Dora and her interests most dearly
of all.

When the servant had gone, and Dora and
Archie looked each at the other, both were
filled with pity. They pressed each other's
hands, looking pitifully. If Archie looked
weary and out of sorts, Dora appeared in
his eyes to be seriously ill. Hers was a

beauty, of wliicli much was brilliancy ; and
now the bright colour was faded, and the
bright eyes were dull. She sank into a seat,
when she had held his hand for a minute,
with an air of lassitude which he had never
seen in her before.

Where is Tom ? " he asked.

He's out," she answered, and Archie was
ashamed of his feeling of relief " It is his
usual time," she added, with a faint smile ;
'^ he always walks or rides in the afternoon ;
everything is just as usual."

Her tone was inexpressibly dreary.

I thought you would have written to meat
the hotel," said Archie.

He saw your card when we arrived,"
said Dora, " and didn't say a word. I dared
not write."

Oh, come ! " said Archie, trying to speak
less dismally, " things aren't so bad as that."

Yes, they are," said Dora ; " I can't tell
you how bad they are. It's dreadful — every
moment is dreadful. I can't bear it. Only

one day has gone, and I feel as if I had been
in prison for years. It sounds pathetic,
doesn't it ? " She asked it with a feeble
smile, as if she tried to mock herself.

Archie said some common words of encouragement,
and she continued —

This morning everything began just as
if we had never been away — as if nothing
had happened."

After all, it was nothing," said Archie.

'* Nothing, except that I shall never be
happy any more."

Oh, Dora ! "

No," she said, shaking her head ; " sou
can't understand it ; no man could understand.
When I heard the door of his study
shut this morning precisely at the usual time,
it was as if the prison-door closed on my
life. Every day he will sit there with his
papers and blue-books, and every day I shall
sit here, wondering every moment what he
believes about me, what he thinks of me, if
he ever thinks of me at all. Every moment

will be like a drop of water falling on my
head, till my brain gives way. He has not
asked a single question since he held the
door open for me to go out of that room — it
seems a month ago. He has not said one
word of blame ; he has been perfectly kind
and courteous, and already I have wished
attain and ao'ain that he would break out and

curse me, swear at me, as that — that

Have you seen him ? "

Yes, I have seen him," said Archie ; " and
that ought to be some comfort to you, anyway,
for he is heartily ashamed of himself,
and I can promise you that he will trouble
you no more. He has no excuse except
that he was drunk. He has not a word to
say against you."

"What could he say against me?" she
asked. " Oh yes, he could say things and
truly. He could say that I was a conceited
fool, who thought myself so worldly-wise
that I could do things which other women
could not do. Oh, when I think of myself,

and my self-sufficiency and ridiculous airs, I
could laugh at myself if I did not hate myself
so ; and when I think of him and remember

how he spoke and looked He smelt of

brandy."

The last words were spoken in a whisper,
as if they told of the most awful fact in the
world. " I can't get away from it," she said ;
I can smell the brandy now. I feel
degraded, smirched — as if I could never be
clean any more."

No, no," said Archie, " you must not
make mountains out of molehills. I tell you
that the fellow will never trouble yon anymore."



And I thought that I was converting
him," said Dora with a tremulous laugh.

After this they sank into an uncomfortable
silence for a time. The silence was broken
by the ringing of the front-door bell, at
which they both started, and then looked
guiltily at each other. They heard the front
door opened and closed again ; but no footsteps

but the servant's sounded in the passage.
Dora glanced at the clock on the mantelpiece.
'^ He won't be home yet," she said ; " we
needn't be so frightened."

"Look here," said Archie, after another
but a shorter silence, " would it be worse for
you, Dora, if I told the truth ? "

The truth ? What truth ? To whom ? "

She asked the questions with a slight, a
very slight revival of interest.

You know the lie I told to Tom," he
said.

'' Yes," she said, relapsing into listlessness ;
you meant it well. I never thanked you."

Well," he said, " what I want to know
is this. Would it be worse for you if I told
Tom that it was a lie ? "

Nothing can be worse for me," she said.

He walked up and down the room for a
turn or two. " Why don't you tell him the
whole thing from beginning to end ? " he
asked.

She shook her head dolefully. " That's so

easy to say," she said. " I can't. How can
I suddenly begin to blurt out a long story,
and such a story, all about my idiocy, when
he never gives a sign of supposing that there
is any story at all. I can see his look of
surprise, as I began ; I can hear him interrupt
me, by saying that he needs no explanation.
I could as well think of dashing my
poor hands against a rock. ' Qui excuse,
accuse : ' that would be in his mind, and I
should know it. I should stumble and turn
red, and tell my tale so badly that he could
not help thinking that it was not true. No,
Archie, I can do nothing. That is what
I ought always to have known — that I
was a weak fool, and only safe in doing
nothing."

'^ No, no," said Archie, " that's all stuff.
Forgive me, Dora, but you know, we all
know how clever you are. Among us we
have made a mess of this business ; but I
am sure that it will all come right, and
soon.

If Archie spoke more confidently than he
felt, it had but small effect on Dora's depression.


I am going away now," he said. " I
won't take your decision now, for you would
say 'yes' to anything. But you must cheer
up, Dora, ^vhen I have gone, and make up
your mind. I will come back tomorrow,
and you shall tell me then if I may tell Tom
that it was not I who was in that room that
night. He will be very angry, but I can't
help believing, as I always have believed,
that truth is best. I can't think how I lied
then ; I have no habit of lying. If I tell
Tom the truth, I think that the whole story
will come out, and I do hope and believe
that good will come of it."

Dora listened to him with a most uncertain
attention. She was absorbed for the time in
the contemplation of her own misfortunes,
deep in that abyss of desolation wherein
sanguine happy spirits are so amazed to find
themselves. A long life of lovelessness lay

before her, and down this monotonous vista
she gazed and gazed.

Archie took her Useless hand and pressed
it hard. " Good-bye," he said, " till tomorrow.
Then you shall tell me if I may
speak."

Good-bye," she said sadly, listening, even
as she spoke, for her husband's ring.

CHAPTER XY.

There was yet a wholesome wilfulness in
Dora's depression. She would not admit to
herself that hope was any longer possible ;
and yet all her nature cried out against her
decision that she must hope no more. It
could not be that she should never know
happiness again, she so vivid and alert, she
who had done no wrong, unless silliness be a
crime. So she was divided, the life within
her rebelling* against her obstinate acceptance
of abiding grief. She could not help hoping,
though she declared that she would not hope,
that, when her husband came back from his
walk, she would see some change in him,
some change from this cruel silence and
reserve. If he came back red with anger
and stormed at hers she would be thankful.

This little hope of Dora was doomed to
disappointment. She could see no change at
all; and she said to herself that she had
known that there would be no change. She
had said that she would be at home to
nobody; but Tom Rutherford returning
found a carriage before the door and pressed
the visitor to come in. So Dora was obliged
to sit quiet behind her tea-table and to listen
smiling to the prattle of a little lady who was
eager to tell her why she was in town at that
time, at which great house she had been and
to which great house she was presently
going. She was all fluffy and shining like a
ruffled teal ; she seemed like a ball of fur and
feathers endowed with chatter and a little
high laugh to fill the pauses. Dora said
bitterly to herself that her husband classed
her with this sort of little ladies, all artificial
as the trimming of a hat, and travelling
from country house to country house in a
bandbox. When this visitor had run down
and the little works were eloquent no more.

Tom conducted her with great politeness
downstairs, and then, as was his wont after
five o'clock tea, he shut himself up again in
his den. There he would remain, as Dora
knew, till it was time to dress for dinner.

The little hope, which Dora now recognized
when it was time to snuff it out, had
vanished ; but promptly another glimmered
in the deeps. Against her will she began
to think that some comfort might lie in the
fact that Tom had avoided being alone with
her at tea-time. But this pale gleam went
out also when he came into the drawing-room
before dinner. Her eager eyes could
detect no shade of difference ; even his tie
was tied as accurately as ever. Not a sign
was there of anger, of mockery, nor, most
wonderful in her woman's eyes, of curiosity.
To dine opposite to her husband was a slow
punishment ; she fancied that the quiet
butler, who conducted the business of the
well-ordered meal, was watching her with
demure eyes. Ten thousand leisurely dinners

VOL. IT.

lay before her, all with their ghastly mockery
of peace, their keeping up of appearances in
the butler's eyes.

It was a momentary relief to leave the
dining-room, but she had hardly begun to
taste the new discomfort of loneliness and to
review her troubles, when her husband came
upstairs. He never lingered over his wine ;
she could not even think that he had made
more haste than usual to join her ; all things
were just the same. He sat in his accustomed
place and opened the evening paper. Then
an awful stillness began. She sat like the
victim of a nightmare, fearing that he would
hear the beating of her heart, listening for
the turning of his page. At last he laid aside
the paper, and it seemed that even so slight
a movement broke the spell. She uttered a
sound which seemed to herself like the low
cry of a wounded animal ; he looked at her,
and from the mere fact that he looked at her
she took such measure of encouragement that
it seemed possible to speak. " Archie was

here to-day," she said ; the words were all
ready, though she had by no means expected
to say them. Her husband looked as if he
expected her to say more, and with almost
breathless haste she hurried on. " He asked
me," she said, " to let him tell you the truth
about that night, the night of the ball." The
words were out, and she was trembling. Presently
she glanced at her husband and saw
that his jaw was set and fancied that he
ground his teeth.

He lied then," he said quietly ; " I thought
so." He rose from his chair and stood by
the mantelpiece, looking down. -

Oh, he meant well," she cried out ; " oh,
let me tell you now ; it was all my fault ; " and
so she rushed into the story which she was
sure that she should tell so badly. She told
it, if somewhat incoherently, at least better
than she had feared ; it sounded less artificial,
less improbable ; and it was a relief to speak.
She did not spare herself, her folly, her faith
in herself as in a petty providence for young

men ; but a just instinct kept her from dwelling
too much on that. At first she dared
not notice if she aroused any sign of sympathy
; but, when she looked for such sign,
there was none. He listened coldly, and she
faltered. Still with an effort she persevered ;
she could not leave her tale half told. She
told how she and Leonard Yale had combined
to prevent Archie's engagement; how on the
night of the ball she had heard of the paragraph
announcing the engagement, and how
at the same moment she had heard that
Leonard had proofs that Lady Jane Lock
had sent the paragraph. " He was too ill
to come down," she said, " and would not or
could not send the proofs, but sent to ask me
to come up for one moment. At first I said
I would not, and then I saw Archie, and I
saw that he knew about the paragraph, and
I thought that he was just going to ask the
girl to marry him, and that nothing could
stop him but the proof that Lady Jane herself
had forced him to it ; and then Lady Jane

stopped me when I was going to Archie, and
I was furious with her, and made up my mind
in a moment that I would go and see if there
was any proof that she had written the thing ;
and so I ran upstairs and into that room, and
he was there, and when I saw him like that,
and he spoke to me like that "

She stopped with a strong gesture of disgust.
He came a step nearer to her and asked
in a low voice —

How did he speak ? "

Then her quick mind detected danger ; she
feared that he would seek a quarrel with this
worthless man.

"The words were nothing," she said eagerly ;
it was his looks ; he had been drinking ; he
did not know what he said. Archie has seen
him ; he is wretched and ashamed ; he said
that he had been drinking."

'* You need not be afraid," said Tom huskily ;
I shall not hurt him."

She stood silent for a moment, stunned as
if he had struck her ; he, with a smothered

imprecation, walked out of the room and shut
the door behind him.

Then the waters of desolation seemed to
close over that fair young head. For the
first time she was really hopeless. It seemed
clear to her now that he would never believe
her any more, and that she must walk through
all her long life smiling false smiles, playing
the part of happy wife in a ghastly comedy,
on which no curtain fell, her husband and
she always together, always eyeing each other
with suspicion. The little cloud which had
shadowed her life seemed to darken all the
heaven of her days. For all her woman's
cleverness, her knowledge of unkindness was
but that of a spoiled child. She was unaccustomed
to sorrow.

Tom Rutherford had left the room because
a great wave of passion had threatened to
shake him from his self-control. The thought
of Leonard Yale moved him to fury, and to
the old barbarian hunger of his enemy's life ;
his fingers itched for his throat. To hear his

wife speak words which sounded like a defence
of this corrupted and corrupting youth was
more than he could bear, and he could not
restrain his cruel taunting speech. He went
out lest he should say more, and so have more
to regret ; for he had hardly said the words
before he condemned them as unfair. He had
never doubted his wife. He had been indignant
with her, for that she, his wife, had
been so little careful to run no risk of misconception,
and so ready to trust a man
against whom her instinct should have warned
her. And now he did not for a moment
doubt the truth of what she said. He was
more happy than he had been for days past ;
for he had been very unhappy in spite of his
calm air, doubting Archie's statement, believing
that he did not know the true story
of the night of the ball, determined to ask no
questions. Now his wife of her own accord
had told him the truth ; and he was glad.
Only his anger was still fiery hot within him,
and, when she spoke of Leonard Yale, he had
not held his tongue.

Tom went downstairs and waited till he
felt sure of himself. Then he went up again,
determined to be quiet and to say quietly to
his wife that he was sorry for the words
which he had spoken ; that he had never
thought ill of her, except for the heedlessness
which had hurt his pride so deeply. He went
upstairs rehearsing the cool clear sentences
which he meant to say. He opened the door
quietly enough, but, when he was again in
the room, there was an end of his coolness
and clearness ; the sight of his young wife
moved him too deeply. She had turned in
her chair a ad leaned her arms upon its back ;
her fair young head, all ruffled and disordered,
lay helpless on her arms ; the attitude was
girlish, almost childlike ; she was abandoned
to grief. She was praying inaudibly and
crying like a child. Tears in women and
children were always intolerable to Tom
Rutherford ; he knew his weakness well ; even
the easy pathos of books and plays had often
filled his eyes with tears, and made him mock

himself for his absurdity. But it was too
late to escape this sight. Here was his own
wife, woman and child too, or so she seemed,
lost in grief, shaken by painful sobs. He
came near her quickly. He said what he
had meant to say but vehemently ; he blamed
himself for leaving her alone, for his cruel
words ; he had never doubted her for a
moment ; that young blackguard had turned
his blood, but such an one must not be allowed
to come between them. His words were not
of much importance, for she hardly knew
what he said ; it was the tone of his voice for
which she cared, and the touch of his large
hand upon her hair.

My child," he said ; " don't, don't, dear ! "
These were the words which she heard
most clearly, and these were enough. In his
vehemence he knelt down beside the chair
and drew her head to his shoulder ; then she
clasped her arms about his neck.

CHAPTER Xii.

Archie awoke and wondered if it were day
or night. He bad a slight headache, which
surprised him ; he lay trying lazily to
remember when he had felt a headache before ;
he felt a disinclination to rise and face the
perplexities of the day. The unfortunate
mis-statement which he had made grew big
in that early dismal hour and seemed to fill
the room, and to oppress him. Certainly the
room was full of oppression. With an effort
he got out of bed, went to the window, and
pulled up the dingy yellow blind. The
pulling up of the blind made small difference,
if any ; the world outside was dingy yellow
as the blind, and the outer air thicker than
the air within. It happened that this was

the first London fog which young Lord
Lorrilaire had met. He looked at his watch
and found that it was half-past eight. It
was day then, but a hideous muffled day ;
to lie abed was to be stifled by heavy
reminiscences ; to wash and dress was a
tiresome prelude to a task which seemed to
have grown portentous in the choked hours
of the night. As he stood cheerless and in
doubt, he heard a rap at his door. He crept
back into bed and called to the knocker to
come in.

What's the matter out of doors ? " he
asked, when the Boots of the hotel came in
with a candle.

It's a thick fog, sir," said the Boots; " the
man, as brought your letter, came near to
losing his way."

Archie took the letter and looked at it
with languid interest, which distinctly increased
as he saw that the direction was in
Dora's handwriting. With a faint sigh he
tore open the envelope, while Boots discreetly

held the candle near, but not too near. It
was a short note : —

Dear Archie,

Don't come to see us till we
come back. We go away this morning out
of this horrid fog and all our worries. Weare
perfectly happy. I told him everything.
He sends love.

*' Yours ever,

'dora."

'' All right," said Archie to the man ; " I'll
have my bath." Then the man went away,
leaving bim in thick darkness again, lying,
as it were, in the woollen and breathing
hardly. His first clear thought was that it
was strange that he was not more elated by
Dora's note. What more could he have
wished ? Had he hoped for any news half
so good ? Perhaps elation was impossible on
such a morning. He was sure that he was
extremely glad that Tom and Dora were

friends again. Of course they did not want
him any more ; but that only meant that he
need perplex himself no more with their
affairs, nor strive to disentangle that most
intricate skein. In fact his occupation was
gone ; the weight was removed ; he ought to
be amazingly happy. . But happiness, shy as a
woodland nymph, has small connection with
duty ; she will not come because she ought ;
pursued, she eludes us with a thousand wiles,
then shines upon us unlooked for, abundant
and caressing, at a sound or a gleam, as we
plod on unmindful of her. Archie could
assure himself that he was glad. He lay
blinking, with eyes smarting a little ; it did
not matter now when he got up or if he lay
there all day. The Rutherford were creeping
out of this oppressive city ; but why
should he ? He could get up when he liked,
do what he liked, go where he pleased. The
weight was removed, and only levity remained.
His beloved freedom was his once
more ; nobody cared where he went ; that

ought to be delightful. Howbeit he felt
lonely.

He dressed himself by candle-light, and
breakfasted with small appetite in the blinking
coffee-room. Then he advanced so far as
to determine that he must go somewhere.
He would not go to his mother. He felt
himself too restless for her quiet life ; he
thought that he should disturb the placid
atmosphere in which she imagined her gentle
pictures or planned her daily benefactions.
He felt a perverse desire to see Dora, but
could find no reason for the wish but her
command that he should not come. He told
himself again how glad he was that all was
well with Dora, and straightway slid into
dull melancholy thoughts. " Never again,"
he thought, " shall I be the same to those
friends of mine ; I shall be associated with an
awkward crisis, with uneasy thoughts, with
the memory of a lie." He felt an uncommon
loneliness.

One thing was certain, he could not stay

longer in that hotel. Perhaps the London
winter was like this. Somewhither he must
go, if only to see that the sky still arched
over all and air was somewhere sweet and
pure. He inspected Bradshaw by the untimely
gaslight ; he asked the friendly Boots
to pack his clothes. Finally a four-wheeler
crawled through the muffled streets from
lamp-post to lamp-post, and bore the young
man and his fortunes to the station, which
loomed dark, blurred, and gigantic in the
fog.

Even as the train moved slowly out from
the station, the young man began to breathe
more happily. He had taken a ticket for
Langstone, for he had made up his mind to
go, for want of a better object, back to his
castle. It was at least possible that somebody
might want him there. Slowly he was drawn
out of the clinging dusky fog, and then on a
sudden he was beyond its utmost verge and
in a bright frosty world. His heart leaped
to meet the gladness of the day ; he could

scarcely sit still in this place ; at a station
some miles short of Langstone he left the
train, and leaving some directions about his
scanty luggage, he took the road with joy.
On he walked upon the good high-road, glad
of the keen bright air, and wondering at
times if it were possible that that great mass
of creeping yellow fog were so near. The
sound of his feet on the good road was
pleasant in his ears, and his blood moved
responsive. So be came in due course to the
admirable palings of his park, and looked at
them as a bird who had been let out to fly
about the room might look at the well-set
bars of his cage. He, a vagabond, light of
heart, would be a great man and a landowner,
so soon as he had topped those palings.
He topped the palings nimbly and alighted,
the most fantastic of all Lord Lorrilaires,
upon the springy turf within. Then he
walked forward, still defiant of his own
grandeur, across his wide domain. The sun
was bright and warm, no wind was stirring,

and for all the exhilaration of the frost,
Archie was glowing. He came to a little
wood, all of silver-stemmed birches standing
knee-deep in dry brown fern. Here were
delightful autumnal colours under the clear
blue sky ; the ruddy brown and the silvery
slender tree-trunks held him still for a
moment; and then, yielding to the charm
and tired pleasantly by his long walk, he
dropped himself into the crisp clean fern and
lay thinking, dreaming.

Lonely he still felt himself to be, but, if he
where melancholy in his musing, it was a
melancholy which was almost a luxury.
From his nest in the fern he could see
beyond the wide hollow and the opposite
slope the tower of his majestic castle. What
a preposterous abode it seemed for one light
youth, who asked no more than a crust of
bread and liberty, freedom to come and go,
fresh air, and elbow-room upon the road of
life ! There stood his dwelling, planted
there, solid, oppressive, and there it would

VOL. 11. T>

stand while owner after owner followed on
the same way and a million vagabonds passed
by. He could not but feel lonely. When
he should rise from his lair and go on to
his castle, he would find no welcome more
stimulating than that of the calm Mrs. Dormer
or of the practical Sir Yilliers.

Archie lay thinking lazily, dreaming,
stretched at his ease, tenderly pitying himself
a little — thinking, dreaming, at last
dozing. From this comfort and light haze
of sleep he was somewhat roughly awakened.
He was lying flat on his stomach, his head
had dropped on his arms, and he was dozing
comfortably, when suddenly he felt a weight
as if a tiger had leapt on to his back and
gripped his two shoulders. In that smallwood
and dry warm fern there were no
beasts more dangerous than rabbits ; no
rabbit could have pinned him thus ; and,
startled wide awake from his dozing, Archie
was sure in a moment that a human animal
held him. He heard the deep breathing as

of an anxious man ; he felt the big fingers on
his shoulders, and then a big knee setting
itself in his back ; and then with a vigorous
effort, struggling and writhing like an eel,
he wrenched himself to one side, brought his
feet to his hands and stood upright. His
assailant, amazed by such unexpected agility,
had staggered slightly, but he now recovered
his feet and advanced upon Archie, red-faced
and angry, muttering dire threats, and with
two ponderous fists slowly coming into action.
Archie was sore perplexed. To fight a yokel
in his own park was plainly unseemly ; to
announce his name and rank seemed ridiculous,
if not cowardly ; a natural desire not to be
pounded by a rustic contended with a natural
desire to give this lout, whose hands he still
felt upon his shoulders, a well-deserved
lesson. He measured the advancing foe, and
saw no way of honour but to leap in upon
his superior strength and trust to his activity
and the quickness of a few well-planted blows.
In a moment he would have been within the

yokel's guard, when with fresh surprise he
saw a remarkable change in the advancing
foe. The great fists dropped and the lower
jaw dropped with them ; the man stood still ;
he tried to speak, but he could only stare ; at

last he began, " Well, I'm " but could

advance no further. Archie now warily
advanced and shook him. '' Oh, your
worship," said the man, trembling at his
touch. '' Oh, your lordship ! "

What's the matter ? " said Archie ;
there's no harm done — what did you come
at me for ? "

Oh, oh ! " said the man, " my word ! have
I laid hands on the anointed ? "

Don't be a fool," said Archie. " What's
the matter ? can't you speak ? "

Oh, your lordship ! you won't visit it on
me," said the man. " I'm a poor man ; I
thought no more — Heaven help me, I took
your lordship for one of them poaching boys."

Archie laughed, and having begun to
laugh found it hard to stop ; but the man

stared with only an added solemnity, as if
lie feared that this causeless laughter was
some effect of his rash act, the beginning
perhaps of a form of aristocratic insanity.

Who are you, anyway ? " said Archie,
and what is it to you if boys come poaching?


AYhat is it to me ? " echoed the other
slowly ; " doesn't your lordship know me ?
I am your lordship's under-keeper ; I am
James Pye, your lordship."

This fact delighted Archie. There was
something extremely entertaining to him in
the fact that one of his underlings had pinned
him in his own fern like a hare on her form.
It delighted him, and yet Mr. Pye's abject
attitude annoyed him. "Was it with such
eyes that his dependents must regard him ?
He was vexed with dependent's eyes. '' Don't
be a fool," he said roughly ; " do you think
I'd be such a cad as to hurt you for making a
mistake in your duty. Only the next time
you find a boy on the place, take care not to

break his back, or I will be down on you
with no mistake ; and, if a boy is lying in
the fern and doing no harm, let him lie in
the fern. Do you hear me ? "

^' Yes, my lord," said the man humbly,
'' but "

'' No. You must remember that," said
Archie. " Is it you who live in the cottage
in the middle of the wood beyond the brook ? "

Yes, your worship — I mean, my lord,
and I do hope your lordship "

Don't I tell you I won't hurt you ? '' said
Archie impatiently ; '' show me the way to
your cottage without going by the house."

The great man bowed and almost curtsied
in his zeal, and Archie had a moment's fear
that his guide intended to walk backwards
before him to their destination. But James
Pye contented himself with occasional half-turns
and samples of a crab-like progression,
which was eloquent of apology. So journeying,
they came by a roundabout path to the
little clearing in the wood wherein the

cottage stood. A sudden fancy had seized
Archie, a whimsical desire to enter the
cottage, through the window of which he had
peeped a few days before.

In the keeper's cottage down among the
trees the light was far more dim. The good
housewife peered twice at the figure, which
was following her lord and master through
the low door, before she began to think that
it might be the figure of Lord Lorrilaire.
Then she promptly dusted a chair, which
needed no dusting, and offered it to Archie
with apologies, glancing meanwhile with
questioning looks at her husband and wondering
at his hang-dog air. She for her
part had an air of sufficient self-respect, as
she awaited his lordship's pleasure. It was
not for nothing that she had been an indoor
servant at the castle ; she was well aware
that she knew how to talk to the quality.
As for Archie, he was suddenly aware,
as he felt that polite inquiring gaze upon
him, that he had no reason to give for his

visit. He lead not even given a reason to
himself. He felt that he was standing there,
smiling amiably but absurdly, while James
Pye regarded him pitifully and with awe, as
if he expected him to pull a black cap out of
his shooting coat pocket and condemn him to
be hung on the instant to his own rafter.
Suddenly Archie was possessed of an idea,
sufficiently obvious, and asked with relief,
'' How's Tommy ? "

It seemed impossible even to Mrs. Pye that
the young lord had travelled from London
to inquire after Tommy. But it was her
duty to answer any question which the
quality, whose motives and manners were
generally mysterious, chose to ask ; and so
she answered civilly that Tommy was still
ailing, and entered moreover into certain
details which surprised the young man, who
was not accustomed to the plain speaking
and frank enjoyment of medical topics, which
is common to such women.

Tommy ! " she cried through the door of

the back room, and Tommy emerged and stood
staring, till he was told to make his bow.

'* He is to go away tomorrow," said Mrs.
Pye, with a manner which was almost
acrcrrieved.

Ah, that'll do him good," said Archie ;
there's nothing like a change."

Indeed, it's a sore trouble to send him,
and a sore trouble to be without him," said
his mother plaintively. " Here are the
directions where he is to be taken to," she
added, and she took a sheet of writing-paper
from the mantelpiece and handed it respectfully
to Lord Lorrilaire.

Archie took the paper from her hand and
looked at it, half forgetting, as he looked,
where he was. The directions were put
briefly, and were written in a strong mannish
hand, a good example of that bold handwriting
which the younger ladies of our day
affecta



Be at Langstone with Tommy before 10.

Take 3rd return to Darley for yourself, and
3rd single to Strandling for Tommy.

"Train leaves Langstone 10.5 a.m., arrives
at Darley Junction 11.15 a.m.

At Darley, ask for right platform for
train to Strandling.

I shall be in that train, and shall look on
that platform for Tommy."

That was all which was on the paper ; and
Archie read it twice, smiling at the strong
writing, the minute directions, and the
business-like form.

How kind of her," he said ; and having
said it, he wondered if it were she.

Yes, my lord, I am sure it is very kind of
the young lady," said Mrs. Pye, with the air
of a martyr. " Tommy is to go to a Convalescent
Home which is kept by one of the
young lady's friends, and I do hope he'll be
happy."

Oh, he'll be happy, right enough' said
Archie ; " it'll do him a world of good. It
is kind of her."

On this Mrs. Pye deemed no comment
necessary, cherishing her private opinion
that Miss Lock was indulging herself in a
treat. Tommy was a treat in his mother's
eyes. Moreover, it was inconvenient for
either herself or her husband to take the boy
as far as Darley Junction.

I don't know how ever we shall get him
there," she said.

Archie returned the paper to Mrs. Pye ;
and, as she stuck it behind the candlestick
on the mantelpiece, he observed that there
was a glove there, which no stretch of the
imagination could fancy on the hand of Mrs.
Pye. Yet it was not a small glove.

Is that," began Archie — " did the — in
fact, did Miss Lock leave her glove behind
her ? " He moved, as he spoke, towards the
mantelpiece and delicately picked out the
glove.

Mrs. Pye thought that it must belong to the
young lady, and she hoped to take it to the
Junction tomorrow ; but she again expressed

her wonder how ever she should get there, or
James either. James could not trust himself
to offer an opinion. He stood clutching his
right arm, as if to make sure that it would
not assault his liege lord and master.

Well, good night," said Archie, waking
suddenly from a reverie. He had been
standing and looking at the glove. It was a
long glove, and not even small in the hand,
though it looked small where it lay in the
young man's palm ; it was an old glove too,
and had taken the shape of the hand ; the
shape was fine and free. It was from such
thoughts that Archie started. " Well, goodnight,"
he said, and returned the glove to
Mrs. Pye ; he was a little hurt by her
manner of rolling it up, and sticking it
behind the candlestick. " Good night ! " he
said again — " Good night, James, and don't
forget about the boys — be easy with them."

Oh, lor' ! " said James Pye, with a sort of
groan. '

CHAPTER Xiii.

When Elizabeth Lock looked out of the
window of a first-class carnage at Darley
Junction, she saw little Tommy Pye, and
she also saw another young man whom she
had not expected to see. The train had
scarcely stopped, when the door of the
carriage was opened by Lord Lorrilaire. She
gave him her hand as she stepped out,
looking at him with wide-open eyes. " What
brings you here ? " she asked.

I brought Tommy," he answered ; '' his
parents were busy, and I had nothing to do.
I hope you don't mind."

Oh no," she said ; " it was very kind of
you."

No, I can't allow that," he said.

On this she made no comment, but turned

away to greet Master Pye, who was lost in
contemplation of the engine. She was conducting
her young charge to the carriage,
from which she had descended, when Archie
said, " We are third-class passengers, you
know ; we followed your instructions to the
letter."

She laughed and blushed as he handed her
her paper of directions. '' All right ! " she
said ; sphere is an empty third, and I will go
with him." She opened the door before
Archie could reach it.

And your maid ? " asked Archie, for the
lady's-maid was peering anxiously from her
compartment.

'-' She can stay where she is," said Elizabeth
with the bags and rugs."

Tommy scrambled into the third-class carriage,
and Miss Lock followed him. And
now the doors were slamming and the train
almost in motion, when Archie, as if there
were never a doubt of his intention, followed
Miss Lock into the carriage. The train had

begun to move out of the station, when the
young lady said rather tamely, " Are you
coming too ? "

^' Oh, I forgot," said Archie ; " I was to
take a return ticket to Darley, wasn't I ? "

'' You were not to come at all," she said.

Yet Archie thought that she did not look
displeased. Indeed, he was vaguely disappointed
by the friendliness, the perfect
candour of her manner. She began to talk
to Tommy as if there were no other specimen
of the male sex within miles. He felt a
strong desire to interest her ; he cast about
for an interesting speech. " Here and now,"
he said, with a laugh, '^ begins the Social
Revolution."

This startling statement produced an effect.
She looked at him with frank interest.

You in a third-class carriage and your
maid in a first. You can't go further than
that."

What is the Social Revolution ? " she
asked.

'' Oh, I don't know.

^' Like the French Revolution ? " she asked
again.

No, no," he answered," laughing ; " all
that's out of date. The people can't revolt
against the people. The people govern now,
more or less, and will govern more."

He had gained his point ; he had attracted
her attention. She sat looking at him with
an added flush on her cheek, waiting for
more. This was more than enough to set
Archie's tongue wagging. He began to
pour out views, and glibly to describe the
political and social phenomena of the time ashe
saw them. From this he slipped naturally
to the more personal question, and indirectly
claimed her sympathy, as he confessed how
hard he had found it to know what part he
could best play in the present state of affairs.
"You have to accept the main tendencies of
the time," he said ; " and the difficulty is to
know what one can do one's self, being the
sort of chap one is, to further what's best or
check what's worst."

Yes, I see that," she said, nodding her

head. Her air of interest led him on, and

he continued to confide to her the embarrassing

questions of his Oxford days, the reasons

why the ordinary professions of mankind had

not tempted him. It was all a little boyish,

a little vain-glorious. Finally he was

conscious that he might seem to be talking

as if there were no course worthy of so fine a

fellow as himself. He was suddenly conscious

too of the absolutely blank gaze of the

freckled mite, who sat opposite by the lady's

side with thin legs dangling. He looked

back again at the handsome girl with a smile,

which was meant for an apology, but her

face was neither blank nor critical. She was

leaning slightly forward, her lips apart, her

hands slightly clasped. He was amazed by

her seriousness, half inclined to laugh ; but

he checked himself and he rebuked himself

How fine it was this power of seriousness,

this warm, frank nature ! He lost himself

for a moment, musing. Then, rousing him-vol.
n. Q

self, he said, with the apology which his
smile had intended to convey, '' I've no right
to bore you — talking of myself."

^' But it doesn't bore me," she said emphatically
; " 3-0U can't tell how much it interests
me. I am not clever, you know, and I don't
know clever people, and I never hear about
things which matter."

I don't know that I matter much," he
said.

*' Oh, it's not you," she said quickly — ^' at
least I mean," she added, for she saw that he
had begun to laugh at the prompt disclaimer,
that it's not only you. It's the whole
thing ; it's the fact that there is such a thing
as being of some real use in the world, and
that people are really trying to find the
right thing to do, and that doing one's duty
is not only a thing one says in one's catechism
in the schoolroom. But you ? I can't
see why you should have any trouble. It
seems to me as if there were so much for
you to do."

Oh, don't begin to talk to me about mv

^ ~ I.

position and all that," he said. " You should
have seen the Castle last night, when I arrived.
Uncle Yilliers and Aunt Susan had both
vanished, and all the household, save the
mark, were on board-wages, and the Groom
of the Chambers (I never knew till late last
week that there was such a thing as a G-room
of the Chambers) was so much annoyed with
me for coming, that I couldn't have stopped
another hour in the house for a fortune. A
fortune ! Heaven knows I've enough of
that."

But surely that makes it all plain," said
the girl. " You had nothing to do, and now
you've got all sorts of things and people to
look after."

Archie made a slight grimace. " And you
could try experiments and things," she continued
; " my brother-in-law, the parson you
know, wants all sorts of things tried, allotments
and small farms and fruit growing and
all sorts of things ; but he's not rich and he

can't afford experiments. Now you "

She stopped, and looked at him with eyes
wide open and interest almost eager. As he
looked back on her, it struck him suddenly
as an amazing fact that she should be speaking
so calmly to him of his wealth, which she
might have shared had she chosen. His face
became full of an interest more personal than
her own. He wondered that she did not think
of this. It was amazing, and as beautiful as
it was amazing. She might think herself
stupid if she pleased ; he was lost in admiration
of a simple and beautiful soul. He turned
his eyes from hers, and encountered the never-averted
gaze of the grave Thomas Pye.

Now, there is Tommy," said the girl ;
"if you had interested yourself in the people
on your place, you would have found out that
Tommy needed a change. You are going
to. see the sea, Tommy. Won't that be
splendid ? "

Tommy was of a cautious character. He
was not inclined to commit himself to any

definite opinion about this unknown illimitable
sea. Perhaps he had inherited from his
mother a tendency to mistrust, to suspect that
even glorious ladies, apparently philanthropic,
might get something out of him. Certain it
is that Silence held his lips ; he reserved his
opinion about Ocean, which was compelled to
await his verdict.

As Tommy did not speak, Archie made the
next remark, and made it with conviction.

How good you are ! " he said.

The girl started, and then grew red and
awkward. She moved uneasily, and then
said in a low voice, " I wish you would not
talk like that ; you make me feel a fool and
a humbug."

Her embarrassment, her very awkwardness,
delighted Archie. He would say nothing to
divert her thoughts ; and presently she said
again, speaking more quickly, " I am not at
all good ; I am often cross ; I am often disagreeable
to people — to my mother, for instance."
The last words seemed to come with

an effort, and they were followed by a period
of silence.

Theodosia is good," the girl said suddenly,
as if she must break this silence full
of thoughts.

Who is Theodosia ? " asked Archie.

'^ Oh, don't you know about her ? I thought
you would know, because of Tommy. She
has built the Convalescent Home, and takes
care of it. It is only a small one, but it took
most of her money ; and she lives in a cottage
Near, and I go and stay with her sometimes,
and try to be like her."

Words were on Archie's lips which he did
not speak. Instead of speaking, he turned
his head and looked out of window at
the flying fields, the long procession of the
hedges. His mind moved quicker than the
train, picturing the whole life of Theodosia
Grant; seeing it from the somewhat fatuous
masculine point of view as the life of a
woman with whom love had not prospered
■ — flitting in an instant from Miss Grant to

Lady Jane Lock, considering her also, wondering
at her and at the contrast between her
and her daughter.

Elizabeth Lock, as if she felt the direction
of the young man's thoughts, spoke again.
My mother is so good," she said, ^* about
letting me go to Strandling. She does not
like my going so much, but she is very kind
about it. She has old-fashioned ideas ; she
thinks that she ought always to have her
daughters with her and be doing things for
them ; and now, when there's only me, she
would like to keep me always with her, until
unless "

The girl had spoken so far, anxious only
to explain, to approve her mother, and suddenly
she had found herself on the brink of
words, which died upon her tongue and made
her startlingly conscious that she was travelling
almost alone with a young man, who buta
few days ago had asked her to be his wife.

Archie looked at her for a moment, and
for a moment only. He turned his eyes

COMEDY OF A COTJNTKY HOUSE.

quickly from her flushed, embarrassed face.
Tommy," he cried, giving that self-contained
personage a lively shake of the
shoulder, " we shall be there in no time.
Don't you begin to smell the sea ? "
No," said Thomas Pye.

CHAPTER Xviii.

When he had reached his goal, Archie found
himself in a somewhat comical position. No
sooner had the train stopped at Strandling,
than a bright-eyed lively lady pounced upon
Miss Lock and embraced her with ardour.
Miss Grant was wholly unlike Archie's fancy
picture. With bright dark eyes, wavy hair
worn in the simplest mode, and an erect,
active figure, she showed an undeniable
attraction that would have convinced the
most careless of male eyes that, if she were
a spinster and could be classed as middle-aged,
she was a spinster by choice ; she
looked like a brilliant being playing the part
of an old maid.

Archie regarded this lady with eyes which
were by no means careless, but, before he

could think more of lier, he had been introduced,
received a hearty shake of the hand,
and had seen Elizabeth carried off from
his gaze in a little rattling pony-carriage.
Elizabeth had said good-bye as if she took
it for granted that here they were to part.
She had thanked him for his kindness in
bringing Tommy, with the frank gratitude
of friend to friend, and with an air of
finality as if she were leaving him on the
edge of a new world. As he looked after
the low pony-carriage, which an exceedingly
small pony was hurrying away at his own
discretion, he saw the two female heads close
together, and felt that Elizabeth was listening
with interest and sympathy to much talk,
with which he had even less to do than had
Tommy, who sat on a tiny shelf opposite to
the ladies and spent his time in staring.
When the little vehicle had turned the
corner, Archie had nothing to look at but
the maid, who was setting forth at a dignified
pace by the side of the luggage, which

a porter was wheeling down the road. He
looked beyond the maid and down the road
to the clustering roofs and high church-tower,
and wondered which roof would cover
that fair head ; it was not of the lady's maid
that he was thinking. Depression possessed
him. He stood irresolute. His portmanteau
had been deposited on the platform, and there
lay neglected. The Strandling season had
ended many weeks before, and brooding
winter quiet held the station and the little
town. The young man shook himself and
turned to ask what train would carry him
and the portmanteau, his only companion,
to Langstone, or London, or somewhither.
Confronted, as he turned, by the other and
more sleepy porter, he suddenly determined
to stay there for that night at least, and
asked which was the best inn. The porter,
with a pardonable prejudice, recommended
the Pier Hotel, at which his brother
cleaned the boots and knives ; he inferred
from the cut of his clothes that this idle

young gentleman would be pecuniarily beneficial
to his brother. So Archie told this calm
and calculating official to wheel down the portmanteau
at his leisure, and so walked away to
the Pier Hotel, which was a modest inn for
all its name, and ate some luncheon in the
silent coffee-room, and felt better for a time.

Having learned that Miss Grant's cottage
stood, withdrawn a little from the little town,
on his right, Archie after his luncheon
walked away towards the left. He felt
strangely shy when he thought of meeting
those ladies, and most fearful of intruding on
the first hours of their renewed conversation.
So he walked away from the narrow streets
along the edge of the high sandy cliffs, which
crumbled daily to the sandy shore below,
melancholy, perhaps enjoying a little this
young man's melancholy, sad as night.
When the sun was low, he turned and walked
back towards Strandling. Between him and
the town the cliff sloped down and rose
again to a big blunt knoll, on which the

whole old fishing-village clustered, red roofs
and narrow twisted streets, and over all the
tall grey tower buttressed against the winter
winds. Below the knoll and but just above
the sea-level stood the little hotel, and close
beside it a short old-fashioned wooden pier
straddled out into the sea. The Pier Hotel
had been attractive at luncheon-time, but, as
Archie entered it in the evening, he felt its
silence. It no longer looked for holiday folk ;
it had entered on its dormouse sleep ; the
two waiters, who had come for its season,
were on the Riviera. Only the porter's
brother and a couple of girls assisted the
landlord and his wife.

Archie dined sadly. The loneliness of his
inn was as the loneliness of his castle withall
his retainers on board-wages ; the intermittent
society of the Boots was no more
satisfying than that of his Groom of the
Chambers. He had not even bought a book
or a paper on his journey. For want of
other food of thought, he fell to thinking of

himself, and was sad. So he sat staring at
his boots by the light of one hot gas-burner,
and conscious of the fumes of his late dinner
and of other dinners of other days, until
glancing up through the unsheltered window
he saw that the stars were shining. It was
better to be out than in. So out he went
again, and this time he walked up through
the crowded dreamy town, under the tall
grey tower, and turned into a narrow path
between the houses, which led him in the
direction other than that which he had
chosen in the afternoon. He walked briskly,
for the night was cold, and the stars, which
had called him forth, shone clear. So walking
he came soon to a little open paling on
his left, with neatly raked gravel behind it
and a neatly whitened house with two gables.
He knew in a moment that this was the
Convalescent Home, and stood still to look at
it. It looked like a toy set carefully down in
its place by a child's hand, and the paint of
its little railings seemed to have had scarcely



time to dry. Archie was in a strange mood ;
the thought of sick children made tears come
into his eyes.

If this were the little hospital, as he felt
sure it was, then the lady's cottage must he
near at hand. But Archie did not wish to
look at the cottage, at least not on that evening.
He turned back, and found another
path and followed that, musing, thinking of
himself. He wondered what was the matter
with him. He wondered why he had come
there. He began to blame himself, for had
he not been drifting again ? Had he not
yet learned that to let himself drift and see
what came of it was no course for a man ?
He was a man now, and to spend manhood
in sighing for one's lost boyhood — that at
least would not do. The happy irresponsible
wandering time was done ; even if it could
please him still, it could content him no
longer. The drifted must have no conscience,
if he would drift happily for ever and shut
his ear to all the little clamorous duties which

every day beset him. He had pushed himself
off on his new life of Lord Lorrilaire, intent
on sliding down and amusing himself with
new chances, and at the very outset he had
run smack upon the facts of life. He had
been shaken rudely from his laziness, forced
to bestir himself, to choose unpleasant action,
to forbid a kinsman his house, to protect a
friend even at the expense of his truth. Ah,
that still troubled him ; it was no use to
mutter to himself of the yevvaiov \\fevho^ ; he
could not bear that recollection. Howbeit,
one thing had been made clear, one thing
which it amazed him that he could have
doubted ever — that he could not allot to himself,
even for a single week, a life of delicate
amusements. To determine to amuse oneself
is wilfully to invest in disappointment.
And now he had been drifting again. He
had gone for Tommy in the early morning
with no better purpose than to see what
would come of it. He had come on to
Strandling with no definite purpose.

Suddenly it came to him with a new
conviction that the girl was right, and with
the conviction came a thrill of joy that it
was the girl who was right. She had said
that his sudden transformation into a man
of wealth and influence should have ended all
his doubts. He had suffered from doubts of
himself and of his best career, till he too had
been sick of asking what he was and what he
ought to be ; but the sudden push into fortune
should have ended all that. He had
not sought the fortune. He had not wished
to be a lord. It did not please him now.
He would rather have no distinguishing label.
He supposed that, had he been born to a title,
it would have seemed natural ; but, as it was,
he could not yet give his name in a shop
without a sense of absurdity, and a fleeting
tendency to apologize. Nevertheless, this
label, and with it a command of much money,
had been thrust upon him ; and with the
money and the title there had come to
his hand a hundred duties, which made his

VOL. II. R

life's work plain enough. This was clear
enough ; and it amazed him, as he walked the
night, that he had not seen how clear it was
till the girl had spoken. He had been in a
maze, in a confusion of new claims ; he wished
to believe entirely that he owed the recognition
of his plain task to the girl alone. He longed
to do his work well. He was confident that
he would use this property, thinking always
of its duties rather than of its rights, trying
to understand it thoroughly and to use it for
the best, ready to lay it down rather than to
use it ill. That seemed to him in this hour
of insight the whole duty of the rich. He
walked fast, thinking, planning, devoting
himself; and ever among his quick thoughts
beat waves of recurring emotion, flashing his
cheek in the darkness, quickening his heart.
He walked beyond the little town and out once
more upon the cliff; he stood on the close-cropped
grass between the faint deep sea and
the quiet shining stars ; and he grew more
quiet as he stood. A spirit of peace was

with him. " God helping me," he thought,
'' if He care to help me, I will try to do
honest work in the world." Happy or unhappy,
lonely or no, he would face fortune
like a man, endure like a man. He walked
home more slowly through the silent night,
and he fell asleep with a prayer on his lips, a
prayer for manhood's strength.

And with the morning came no failure of
purpose. He had made up his mind to
something most definite ; and he had made
up his mind too that, should he win or lose,
he would take his fate like a man. No long-drawn
supplications should there be, nor vain
indulged regrets. When it was now time, he
walked to Miss Grant's cottage. It stood a
little beyond the coast-guard station, which
was conspicuous in whitewash and with
lordly flagstaff, and its air was the more
modest for this official neighbourhood. The
little garden behind it stretched to the edge
of the cliff, and the palings at its sides secured
no absolute privacy, for they were not more

than four feet high. All lay open to the sea-air
and the sun, and to the eyes of mortals if
any cared to look. Miss Grant had a comprehensive
friendliness.

There, in this little garden, this little
strip from the garden of Eve, Archie said
what he had to say. He had been welcomed
kindly by the ladies ; he had stayed
to luncheon at the invitation of Miss Grant,
who was full of talk, of energy, of happiness
; he had asked after Tommy and had
received a good report, and also a message
for Tommy's anxious mother. From the
window of the little dining-room Elizabeth
had stepped unthinkingly into the little
garden ; and when she turned to come in
again Archie filled the window.

Miss Grant had left the room; not even the
coast-guardsman who was on duty was looking
over the palings. Archie came out into
the garden. He felt himself trembling ; but,
as he looked the girl fairly in the face, the
trembling ceased. The time had come for
decision ; that was a great thing of which to

be sure. Elizabeth, on her side, was unready ;
she was not quick, as many women are, with
arts of evasion, of postponement ; she looked
helplessly at the young man who stood
between her and the only way of retreat. Ashe
saw her helplessness, he grew more eager
for speech ; he knew that she was seeking
with pain for some speech which might stop
his ; he pitied her even while he pursued his
advantage.

I have been thinking of what you said
yesterday. I think I see plainly enough
what I ought to do — will you help me ? "

She looked at him with appeal, and then
with indignation. No words occurred to her
but some which conveyed a doubt of his
meaning ; these she would not speak ;
wretched, prevaricating, conventional words
they seemed to her. She actually stammered
for a moment. Then she turned from him
and looked away across the sea.

He came nearer, and said, " You haven't
forgotten what I said that other time — on the
night of the ball ? "

Then at last she found something to say.

You know that that was a mistake," she
said ; " you should not speak of that again."
She frowned as she looked at him a moment,
and then she looked seaward again.

It's not a mistake now," he said, " unless
my life, all life, everything is a mistake.
It's as deep as my life. I know what I want
now with all my heart and soul." He moved,
trying to see her face, which she disdained to
hide. But the sight of her face gave him
small comfort ; it was full of distress. His
heart sank, and he stood silent.

"It was only the other day," she said at
last, and almost sullenly.

*' Ah, you doubt me?" he cried out
passionately.

And would not you doubt me ? " she said,
with an answering passion. " Don't you
know why we came to Langley ? "

What do I care ? " he said.

You would care," she said ; '' how could
you help remembering ? Any way, I can't forget
that I was brought there to — to catch you."

Archie burst out laughing, and she looked
at him with amazement. After all, he
was not happy ; and his laughter sounded
almost as strange to himself. He began to
speak again, eagerly, with conviction, asserting
that such thoughts were as nothing.
Will you be my wife ? " he said. " Elizabeth,
don't make me wretched for a fad."

Oh, do go away," she said, with a sort of
moan.

All right," he said curtly ; he had turned
suddenly cold. He looked at her, thinking that
he should carry for ever a picture of her grand
figure and the fine turn of her head as she
looked away to the sea. A white bird turned
in the air beyond her at the edge of the cliff.
Her lover turned away from her and went a
few steps and laid his hand on the window.
Even then there was some comfort for him
in this test of his strength, of his manhood.
At the base of all things is this one thing
sure, to bear one's fate like a man. So
Archie would have borne his fate, had it been
more unkind. But from the very window,

which was about to shut him from his strip
of paradise, he looked back once more, his
last concession to his weakness. There stood
the girl still ; it was the same picture, but
that the sea-gull was now but a white speck
upon the distant sea. Archie could never
have said how he knew that Elizabeth was
sobbing. He hurried back to her ; and she
turned at the sound of his coming ; even then
her face was full of conflicting emotions, and
the hands which she stretched towards him
seemed hands of repelling ; but he caught the
hands masterfully in his, though his words
were pleading.

"Ah, love me," he murmured passionately ;
in pity love me ! " and now she could not
hide the sobs, which shook her as he held
her in his arms.

THE END.

London : PRINTED BY WILLIAM Closes AND SONS, LIMITED,
Stamford STREET AND CHARING CROSS,

;'

'A

■^^7

i.'Z^jt

<■!•*•»•"»••<••••"»••

■»i | ii>iiMiiiiiiiwi«— —a i

I "

MMpHMSKaaa

i«Wi«a

oMnBnMaaMMiBai
