ULIAM :;

OF THE

U N Diversity

or ILLINOIS

t^

A^cujucr^^

VOL. I.

SPOTl'ISWOODE And TO., NEW-S rHEET SQUARE

LONDON

BY

JULIAN STUEGIS

IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL. I.

LONDON
LONGMANS, OEEEN, AND CO.



A II lights reserved

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/johnmaidment01stur



MY MOTHER

VOL. I.

The debating-room of the Oxford Union was
unusually full. The great debate of the year
was in progress ; it was a party question ;
and the youthful champions of the two
political parties were there in full force. All
the long benches were filled with young men,
tall and short, fat and thin, sallow most of
them as studious youth are apt to be, with
hair rather rough and with ragged remnants
of undergraduate gowns upon their backs.

Most of the audience were reading men,
for the Union was not a fashionable resort ;
and the few who suggested idleness or

dulness looked more like the lovers of beer
and skittles than of hunting and champagne.
Here and there in the rows of young faces,
which showed the feeling of the moment,
was the less simple countenance of some don,
whom the fame of this great debate had
drawn to the place. A little ashamed of
being there, a little contemptuous of his
neighbours' seriousness, perhaps a little envious,
the young dons prepared to listen to
the contest of these tremendous politicians.
And not only were the long benches on the
floor of the House too full for comfort, but
the light gallery, which ran all round the
oval chamber, was packed with men, and
even a few light gowns of ladies gave colour
to the scene. Above the gallery itself was
more colour, but sadly faint and faded, wherefrom
the upper wall the knights and damsels

of decaying frescoes, the brief effect of young-enthusiasm,
looked down upon these having
boys, who dreamed, some of them, that they
would move the world.

Suddenly the babbling and scuffling were
hushed, as the door of the chamber swung,
and the dignified President in correct dress-clothes
moved up between the facing benches
to his high seat at the end. This end of the
room was a little raised above the rest of the
floor ; on each side of the presidential chair
boldly-curved green seats were fitted to the
curved walls ; and these seats where now
filled to their utmost capacity by the 
and chief speakers, who had
followed the President into the room.

The debate had been adjourned from the
last meeting, and, as everybody was eager to
hear the brilliant young Eadical who was to

address the House first, there was no long
delay in calling him to his feet.

With a whispered word to the friend at his
side, John Maidment stepped quickly forward
to the table, and faced the crowded House.

More than half the attraction of the great
debate was the expectation of a great speech
from him, and he knew it. It was generally
admitted, not only that he was the orator
of his contemporaries, but even that during
many generations of copious rhetoric there
had been no speaking at Oxford like the
speaking of Maidment of Balliol. And now
Maidment was to make his last speech in the
Union, and he meant it to be his best. There
was a worthy audience ; there were more opponents
than supporters, and he liked that ;
there was expectation in the air. The room
was full of light, though a green shadow

seemed to lie high up in the vaulted roof;
the warmth of party strife was ready to break
forth ; the heat of young humanity was there
already ; the eager welcome died away, and
in a profound silence Maidment began his
speech.

The speech began, but it was not effective ;
something was wanting. It sounded fine and
it seemed full of matter ; but the listeners
were not warmed so quickly as they had
hoped to be. The orator's great intentions
hampered him ; he was too eager that this
speech should be eminent, that it should
surpass all his former efforts. He tried to
lift it to a higher level ; he felt himself comparatively
ineffective, and, vexed by this
recurrent feeling, he roused himself to eloquent
passages, which seemed to end abruptly.
It was just such an audience as he had wished.

and yet he could not move them, as he had
fancied himself moving them when he lay in
bed that morning. Indeed, his audience were
too considerate ; for foes, as well as friends,
were so eager to hear him and to give him
every chance of a final triumph, that he
spoke at first in a silence which chilled him.
Two streams of thought were his as he
continued. Though his mind was busy with
the making of sentences, it was busy too
with questioning their effect. Would his next
phrase warm them, and should he catch their
warmth? As he spoke, he felt his hearers'
disappointment, and his hottest words seemed
to turn cold on the air. He was cold and
cross, and every other moment he was ready
to sit down, to curse himself for a fool, to
admit that his great speech was a failure.
Indeed, John Maidment's last Oxford oration

might have been little better than a
failure had not help come from an unexpected
quarter.

Onions the little things which irritated
the young speaker, as he laboured with his
task, was the presence of a small number of
undergraduates, who differed widely from the
rest of the audience. They had a sporting
look, and their clothes were both better and
brighter ; it was their first visit to the Union.
John knew some of them, and it annoyed him
to think that they had dined together, and
had come to hear him as a novelty, as a few
nights before they had waited on a music-hall
singer. His eyes met theirs again and
again, and each time a slight irritation followed.
Their behaviour was harmless and
they seemed attentive ; but John fancied an
air of superiority. As he stood looking down

the long chamber, they faced him from the
gallery opposite ; he could not ignore them ;
their presence was another cause of discomfort
and annoyance. Yet from these young
men came help. For some time they Hastened
with becoming gravity ; but, as they became
accustomed to this new atmosphere of debate
and began to gain some notion of the
speaker's meaning, the more intelligent felt
first a growing amazement, then a quick rush
of indignation. They had known, when they
came to hear him, that Maidment was a
Eadical — ' an awful Eadical,' they had called
him ; some of them had thought it strange
that he did not prefer their society to that of
men who seemed to them only half shaved
and dingily dressed. But, for all their preparation,
this radicalism of a man who had
been at school with some of them seemed.

when it actually assailed their ears, unworthy
and outrageous. It seemed impossible to
stand still opposite to a fellow who talked
like that, and not utter a protest.

On the other hand, John Maidment's
utterances were cruder and more subversive
than usual ; for in his efforts to warm himself
and his hearers he flung them out with uncomfortable
emphasis and vehemence. From
the dull level of his speech he broke abruptly
into short phrases of denunciation, with
which he hoped to excite himself; and these
poor phrases assumed an unnatural distinctness.
More and more the young orator felt
the ineffectiveness of his speech, and his eye
full of vexation rising to the group of smart
young men read in their simple faces condemnation
of his extravagance.

Who were they, that they should condemn

him, these idlers and careless Sybarites?
These were the men with whom, if he had
chosen the primrose path, he would have
spent his time at Oxford. Whenever he had
felt brief desire of their soft luxurious life, of
cricket in summer and hunting in winter, of
late rising and long lunching, contempt of his
own weakness had turned in an instant to
bitter scorn of their idleness and uselessness.
And now they had come here for absolute
vacancy in the hour which should have been
the hour of his triumph to witness his
failure ; their prosperous air, the look as of
men who had dined well, was a final aggravation.
His eyes sought theirs as he
launched his most acrid sentence, and across
the long space he seemed to read in their
boyish faces disapproval and derision.

As he looked, something more extravagant

than he had yet said came to him in an
instant, and, as he gave it utterance, he was
full of the wild wish to see how they would
like that. They did not like it at all. The
leader of their set cried out in mockery,
and his friends followed with loud murmurs.


The habitual Conservatives of the place
seemed only to have waited for a lead,
and the voice of the young orator was
drowned by a dull roll of dissenting voices.
In an instant the colour leapt to John
Maidment's cheek ; he felt real hot anger
well up from within him ; his cold fits were
gone. As the murmurs died away, indignant
words came thronging to his lips ; he
was glad in the midst of his wrath ; he
was conscious that the something needful
had come to him. His thoughts no longer

went wandering here and there; there was
no divided stream ; with fury and exultation
he launched himself on the full current of
his speech.

And now John Maidment was like a
young prophet in the tents of the ungodly.
His eyes shone ; he saw in these genial young
men who had dined at the Mitre the
essence of all that was wrong with the whole
nation, with the world ; he burned to pulverise
them. His denunciation of the idle
and luxurious, who, lolling at ease on divine
couches, moved with a nod resistance to
all true reforms, was Hke a personal attack ;
it was lucky that these young Britons had
gained from race and a hearty out-of-door
life a rare fund of defensive stohdity. The
dull speech blazed into brilliancy ; fierce
indignation made it almost poetical. Murmurs

of warm applause answered the murmurs
of objection ; the real old party fires
burnt once more m these young specimens
of the eternal parties. The atmosphere was
thrilled with the quick ebb and flow of opposing
passions, and John's voice was like
a trumpet in his own ears. It was a splendid
burst of denunciation.

When the young Eadical paused after
the fury of his onslaught, the Liberal party
broke into exclamations of delight. They
were quickly moved to rapture, and this
brilliant hero appealed to both ears and eyes.
As he stood alert by the table, unable yet
to speak for the tumult of applause, flushed
and radiant and bold, he was as full of beauty
as of the nervous energy of the time. With
his head held high and his eyes shining he
waited till the sounds passed ; and then, with

a fine rhetorical instinct, lie began to speak
in a new mood. His face changed like the
face of a consummate actor. He felt the
sympathy of the friends around him and
their generous admiration ; he yielded himself
to the charm ; indignation had passed,
and the fair hope of the future held him.
His words seemed for his own delight to
clothe his thoughts with beauty ; he almost
tasted them ; he seemed to be listening to
somebody else's speech, and enjoying it
very much. He was content with himself.
A few minutes before he had been saying
to himself with bitterness that he was no
better than other people ; now a beguiling
voice seemed to whisper to him that he was
indeed set apart from the common crowd.
He knew that after his great burst of denunciation
he must not long delay the end.

Very gently he began to speak, and they
all were very still to hear.

'But, why should we be angry?' he
said. ' Is not the future ours ? We may
smile on our opponents, for to them is the
strife without hope, to us the star of
victory ; to them the clouds of darkness,
to us the splendour of the dawn. The day
is at hand. We who are but starting on
the high path of life, brothers in heart and
hope, we shall live to see the glorious
days when a free people in a free land, sole
masters one and all of the dear soil on
which we hive, sole masters one and all of the
destiny of our fair Fatherland — the glorious
days when we, a nobler and a juster people
in the eyes of God and man, shall put our
veto on all aggressive war, on all unequal

VOL. I. c

burdens, on all unequal laws. Yes, we shall
live to see it. Do we not see it now ? Look
to the East, for from thence cometh the
morning ; nay, look to the West, for from
thence cometh the morning to the nations.
Liberty is good, and we shall be free beyond
the dreams of freedom. Equality shall
cease to be a mockery, as when the rich
alone are rich enough to seek justice. Only
the good and the wise shall be held worthy
of honour, only the wise and the good and
the dignity of daily labour. And more than
liberty, more than equality, brotherhood, a
living brotherhood shall be ours. Aye,
and a brotherhood like ours shall be for the
nations too. Nation shall be as brother to
nation, all together with mutual help and
love working out the divine purpose in the
world. The day dawns, my brothers, if you

will but see. Speaking here for the last
time '

Here the voice of the speaker seemed
to break, and a deep murmur of sympathy-rose
from all sides ; as it ceased he said :

I will say no more. Let my last words
in this place be, " Have faith, my brothers." '

Before the last words were spoken, some
had risen from their seats ; young blood was
on fire, and the unstinted admiration of youth ;
it seemed an amazing thing that one of themselves
should speak sa eloquently, with a
manner so faultless and a voice so beautiful.

When John sat down, there was such
tumultuous applause, that the dignified young
President grew anxious for the dignity of the
House. It seemed as if the wilder and more
revolutionary youth would toss the orator to
their shoulders, as if he were no more than

G 2

the winner of a boys' race at school. There
was nothing but applause ; the Conservative
majority made no counter-demonstration.
Even the most sullen of these young opponents
felt that there was nobility in the young
Eadical's errors ; even the most cynical of the
few dons present, though he smiled grimly
over a boy's broadcast sowing of political
wild oats, turned in the doorway for another
glance at this brilliant creature, illumined
by youth, by genius, and by faith. As John
sank down in his seat, his friend Paul grasped
his hand and wrung it hard, for he could not
speak. John was supremely happy. Even
the young men who had roused his wrath,
the Sybarites in check shooting-coats, were
pleasant in his eyes. He was intoxicated
with his triumph ; he was exquisitely conscious
of his power ; he was pleased with

himself. As he felt Paul's honest hand grasp
his, he had a final exquisite sensation of
delight in this loyal, unquestioning friendship.
Pressing his friend's hand with his strong,
nervous fingers, he felt sure of his power over
men, sure that he was a leader of men, that
with his gifts he might go anywhere. And
he meant to go far. He was very ambitious.

CHAPTEE II.

Paul Brent was slow of speech. Moved in
all his heart — and it was a very big one — by
the triumph of his friend, he could only express
his feelings by grasping his hand. It is
true that he opened his mouth, but, if any
word came forth with difficulty, it was too
short and too deep to reach even John's ear,
and it did little indeed to swell the clamour
of applause. And yet if all the enthusiasm
which John Maidment's speech excited could
have been weighed there and then, the joy
of Paul Brent in his friend's triumph would
have been found greater than that of all

the tumultuous youth together. His was a
great unquestioning admiration, which had
grown slowly with his growth from the day of
his first meeting with his friend when they were
both small boys — a belief, which had gained
strength with every day, entwining itself withall
his habits of slow careful thinking, and
blending itself with the strong silent currents
of his deepest feelings. He had been charmed
by those qualities in his friend which were
least like his own : the quickness of understanding,
the readiness of speech. From the
first John had seemed to him a shining person
in body as in mind. John had seen great
amazing truths at a glance, and Paul had
stared and stared till he had acquired a clear
view of them. John had swallowed great
principles, which were to transform himself
and through him the world, and Paul had

gulped them down with faith. There was
no limit to the gratitude, of which he could
not express a thousandth part. He believed
that this friend, who had been brought to
him in boyhood by a sort of happy chance,
had freed his eyes from bandages of prejudice
and error, and had shown him the world as it
might be, and as even he might help to make
it — a world of higher aims and purer lights, a
world of brothers, a world approaching perfection
in all its parts by virtue of a universal
panacea which was called Democracy. He
believed that John had taught him how to
live.

John on his side had no idea of the
strength of Paul's feeling for him. Indeed, he
often laughed at him for his cold temperament,
and for the faintness of the flush which
came to his cheek in times of the greatest

excitement. Of course he knew that he had
great influence with him, had had great
influence from the first. He did not think
much about it ; it seemed only natural ; it
was obvious that he should lead and Paul
should follow.

As Paul travelled down from Oxford a few
days after John's great speech at the Union,
he wished many times, as he had often wished
before, that he had told his friend how grateful
he was. fais eyes rested rather vaguely
on the familiar scene, where the easy sloping
hills stand back from the valley garden of
the Thames ; and as he thought of his friend,
and that their college days were ended as
their school days had ended, there was a mist
on the river, though its morning mist had
vanished long ago. Later, when he had
passed through London, and the pastures and

hop-gardens and wheat-fields were gliding
past his window, the same wish came back
to him again and again. He told himself,
not for the first time, that there must be
something wrong with him, since he could
not plainly and frankly tell his friend how
well he knew the vastness of the debt which
he owed him. He set his teeth and nodded
his head slightly, as he made up his mind
that once for all he would tell what he felt to
John when he joined him at Brentholme.

And now the train was drawing near to
the familiar station, and Paul could get a
distant view of his native village, straggling
loosely up the hill to the open gates of his
father's place.

This so-called borough was probably the
most insignificant place in England which
sent a representative to Parliament ; and the

choice of the representative depended on the
will of the present owner of Brentholme as
absolutely as it had depended on the will
of the most arbitrary of his ancestors. The
place had descended for many generations
from father to son, and the eldest son of each
alternate generation had gone into Parliament
as a matter of course. Every eldest son wished
to go into the army, but it was only the Brent
who had grown weary of sitting grim and
silent in the House of Commons while talk
ran verily on who allowed his eldest son to
become a soldier. Paul's grandfather had
been a member ; his father had been in the
army till he became a colonel ; it was therefore
fixed as the Pyramids that Paul should
enter the House.

And now his time had come. He had
finished his Oxford life with credit : and his

next duty was to go through the form of
being elected by the friendly electors, who
had known him in his perambulator, and who
would have chosen him at first sight, perambulator
and all, if Colonel Brent had suggested
it. And now everything was ready.
The worthy gentleman who had contentedly
acted as seat-warmer was ready to go ; and
Paul was to occupy his place, and was not
sorry that it must be so. Indeed, the education
which daily intercourse with John
Maidment had given him made him profoundly
glad, first of all Brents, that even
by dumb voting he could help bring in the
golden time. He was profoundly glad, and
profoundly grateful to John.

As he looked at the straggling, unpretending
pleasant village, it struck him even more
sharply than usual how unfair it was that

such a place should have the glory of a representative,
and what a greater shame it was
that, while it continued to enjoy this honour,
its representative should not be John. How
wrong it was that he, the tongue-tied, should
walk into Parliament with his hands in his
pockets, and that his friend, the brilliant and
the eloquent, should have to chew his burning
thoughts in silence I Glad as he was of
the career before him, he would not have
hesitated for a moment to give up his chance
to John, if it had been in his power to give
it up. But Paul knew, and John knew too,
that Colonel Brent was not to be persuaded to
change his plans.

The Colonel made few plans, but those
he made without help, and he did not discuss
them. Brought up very strictly by the last
Parliamentary Brent, he allowed his children

a perhaps excessive freedom in everyday
matters ; but at certain epochs they found
duties awaiting them, and for escape from
these not all the arguments of all the advocates
would avail. It had lone been settled
that Paul, as soon as he had done with
Oxford, should go into Parliament.

It seemed to Paul that there was still a
good deal of unfairness in the world. There
was this ridiculous little rotten borough, and
he, the wrong man, was bound to represent
it ; and, when he had become its representative,
he must help to deprive it of representation.
It never occurred to him for a moment
that he need not join as heartily in the suppression
of this little family iniquity as in that
of all the other iniquities which they were
to smash in the good time coming. He was
a very simple soul. He wondered how his

father, staunch old Whig with inconsistent
peculiarities, would like the changes. He
thought that they would come very quickly.
He thought himself weak for hoping that the
glorious improvements would not include
the cutting up of Brentholme into cabbage
gardens in his father's day. If he were ever
allowed to inherit the place, and if the new
lights made it clear that cabbages were right,
he would stick in the first spade, though it
would scar his heart too. He had a deep
love for Brentholme.

And now the train stopped at the station,
and Paul stepped out quickly, for there on
the platform was his sister, his only sister and
fast friend. Nobody else got out at that quiet
place, and when the train moved on again,
Letty, unmindful of the porter, who was an
old family friend, put her arms round Paul's

neck and would not let him go. Lie laughed
and almost cried, and could hardly keep her
feet from dancing. She had to stand a-tiptoe
to embrace her long-legged brother, and he
put on a fine blush as she kissed him before
the admiring friend who was arranging his
luggage on the truck. He unclasped her
hands by force, and held her away that he
might look at her.

She was a pleasant sight. There was the
fair skin of the family, though it was not free
from freckles, and there were the family blue
eyes ; but the little nose was the very opposite
of the Brent aquiline, and nose and mouth
and chin seemed to hint a slight wilfulness
which was unlike the Brent severity. She
seemed to be still a child though old enough
to be a woman, to be all compact of wholesome
country air and country thoughts and

simple ways of life. She laughed under Paul's
eyes, and her dimples were very pretty. She
insisted on holding his hand as they went up
the drowsy street, wherein there were but two
or three friendly folk to give them greeting,
and through the big park gates, which all day
long stood open to the village. It was a sign
of a long-established friendship. The Httle
Brents made themselves at home in their
neighbours' houses, and were aware of the
birth of every puppy in the place ; and in
turn they brought the school children from
the dusty road into the spacious playground
of the park.

Very near to its open gates stands the old
square house, square and solid as the family
itself, with its trim flower-beds about it (the
Colonel had a very orderly taste in flowers) ;
but beyond it the park stretches far away its

VOL. I. * D

wide and generous spaces. It would give
small encouragement to the reforming spade,
for there is very little earth above the chalk.
It cannot be called well timbered, for it is
only in the deepest hollows that the elms
and beeches have grown large, while on the
upland slopes small clumps seem to cling for
life, and on the highest places the stunted
shrubs grow streaming with a driving wind.
Its beauty is the beauty of wide spaces and
open breezy life, of springy turf and lovely
line. The slopes melt into hollows and the
hollows swell into hills with the grace of
following waves ; and so the land spreads far
and free till it slips under the furthest park
paling and is far-reaching open down ; and
the downs stretch forward their long majestic
curves till they are broken into high chalk
walls by the buffets of the rolling sea.

CHAPTER ni.

Ox the morning after his son's return from
Oxford, Colonel Brent was pacing up and
down his den. The Turkey carpet, which had
lasted long, showed a marked line where
the Colonel was wont to walk backward and
forward for the assistance of the somewhat
slow process of thought. In the pleasant
morning light, which came freely in at the
bow window, everything in the room looked
old as the carpet. The red curtains, which
were pulled tight back, were faded. There
was a stiff high-backed leathern arm-chair,
the seat of which was hollowed by long

D 2

occupation ; and there was a roomy leathern
sofa, with a mattress not much thicker than a
board. Between these well-worn articles of
furniture was a wide grate with high old-fashioned
mantelpiece ; on the mantelpiece
were a few pipes, a tobacco jar, a superannuated
powder-flask, and a dog-whistle ;
and above these hung a map of the county
yellowed by age. There was nothing in the
room, except a pipe or two and the later
numbers of ' Daily's Magazine,' which the
Colonel's father would not have recognised at
a glance. The present owner looked thoroughly
at home in his den. He had an air
as old-fashioned as his furniture, and his back
was stiffer than that of his chair. He looked
tall and strong, but he did not carry his
strength easily ; he had a peculiar air of
being hampered by his muscles. Of course

his eyes were clearly blue, and his hair thick
and fair. His skin, but for its summer tan,
might have been envied by the fairest Saxon
girl ; and an abundant golden beard covered
his square chin and massive throat.

When the Colonel had taken but a few
turns on his familiar track the door opened
and Paul came in. He had been for an early
ride about the park ; he looked longer in the
leg than usual in his breeches and gaiters,
and his face had a rosier colour. As he had
felt his favourite animal leap under him with
a treble portion of the springiness of the short
turf, and had met the fresh rush of the air ashe
galloped against it, he had said in his
heart that he was a very lucky young man.
His life lay plain before him, and it seemed
very good.

The Colonel stopped in his walking, and

father and son, equal in height, looked
straight at each other. After a minute the
Colonel began —

About this ' he said in his deep

voice, and stopped.

Paul nodded gravely.

This going into Parliament,' said the
Colonel, as if he finished his sentence with an
effort.

Paul nodded again.

Johnson wants to come out.'

Paul nodded.

Are you ready to go in ? '

Yes,' said Paul.

Then there was a pause. The Colonel
could not speak without putting his chin up
first. On this occasion he put his chin well
up and opened his mouth, as if he were
going to say something momentous, and then

he shut his mouth with no word spoken.
His son waited patiently, being accustomed to
the thought that speech was a difficulty. At
last the father spoke a trifle lower than
usual.

You must not vote for any lowering of
the franchise,' he said.

'What?'

It's gone far enough. I can't have old
Trembles voting.'

'You can't help it,' said Paul, who was
beginning to understand the force of his
father's words.

His father waited a minute, and then, with
his chin very much up and a faint flush on
his cheek-bones, he said —

I can help your having a hand in it.'

After this there was a longer pause.

You mean,' said Paul at last, and rather
VOL. r. * D 4

huskily, 'that I am not to go into parliament.'


If you don't promise.'

If it isn't right that the people should
vote, the whole thing is — is bosh.'

On this the Colonel made no comment
either by voice or gesture. He stood firmly
planted before the empty grate, with the old
county map above his head, an embodiment
of all the decision of aU the Brents.

I believe in it,' said Paul with equal
decision ; ' and so I must do all I can to
help it.'

The Colonel hereupon opened his mouth
as if again he were about to say something
of importance, and this time from the depth
of his chest issued a single deep note, or
grunt, which might have meant anything.
It probably meant that he did not intend

to discuss the question, but waited to hear
whether his son would give the promise or
not.

I can't promise,' said Paul shortly.

His father said nothing, but looked at
him steadily.

Then I am not to stand for ' Paul

finished his sentence by a nod towards the
family borough.

No,' said the Colonel.

Paul stood a moment looking down at
the point of his boot ; then he turned to
the door, and when he had opened it he
said, with an obvious effort —

I am sorry not to do what you ask.'

Ah ! ' said his father, with the upward
movement of the head.

This deep, brief answer meant that he
was sorry for the fact, and that further

speech was useless ; and Paul, being a Brent,
understood it, and accepted it as conciliatory.


Colonel Brent, when Ms son had left
him, stood in the same place, and in the
same attitude. He was not half so much
surprised as his son, for he had long arrived
at the conclusion that Paul had views,
probably young men's folly, unlike his own.
Though not a sign of it appeared in his face,
he was very sorry for his boy. He was
proud of him too, for he had taken his
disappointment like a man — like a Brent.

How like the boy is to my father ! ' he
said to himself, with a softening of the heart.

If the Colonel had been in the habit of
thinking of himself, he might have said —

How like he is to me ! '

He was not only proud of his son, but

even a little envious. At the bottom of
his heart he envied this chance of taking
a knock-down blow so pluckily. There was
a great deal of stoicism in the family, and
many of its members had felt a highly
rarified pleasure in enduring without a word
the buffets of fortune. The Colonel did not
sit down to examine his thoughts nor to
nurse his feelings. He had decided sometime
before what the next step should be,
if Paul refused to promise. Paul had refused
; and the Colonel, after standing silent
for a few minutes, put on his hat and walked
at his usual pace to the post-office.

Paul took his disappointment well, but
he showed more emotion than his father.
To him it was a complete surprise, and he
was a little staggered. An hour ago he had
seen his life fairly arranged before him, and

his life's work ready to his hand. Now
he did not know what he was to do. As
this was a state of mind which was always
unbearable to him, he began to consider at
once what his first step should be. He
could not rest till he had made some plan
of action ; and so to assist the process, and
only waiting a minute to unbuckle his spurs,
he strode away to tramp and think. He
walked more quickly than usual, and at first
his lips were very tightly pressed together ;
and so it may be fairly said that he showed
more emotion than his father.

But, walk as fast and far as he would,
Paul could not decide on his first step. He
thought that he must get away from home
for a while, but he was not sure that this
was not mere weakness. He thought that it
would be good for him as a Democrat to

visit America, but he was not sure that
this was anything more than a wish for
indulgence. However, the exercise had
parted his hips and brought him to his
normal pace, and he seemed calm as usual
when he came back from his walk and
found Letty on the terrace. When he saw
his sister, it struck him that she would be
hurt if she heard the news from anybody
but him, and, as he hated to hurt Letty, he
determined to tell her. He used the fewest
words.

Not going into Parliament ? ' she cried
out.

'No,' he said.

Won't the father give it you ? What
a shame ! ' she said, hotly — ' oh, Paul, what
a shame ! '

He's right — from his point of view.'

But why ? How can he be right ?
Why won't he let you go in ? '

'He asked me not to vote for lowering
the franchise.'

And you wouldn't ? ' Her whole face
changed. ' Oh, Paul ! Such a little thing ! '

It's big,' he said after a minute ; ' it's
at the bottom of the whole thing.'

Oh, but, Paul, to please the father !
Can't you really promise him that ? '

She put her two hands up to his
shoulders, and her sweet upturned face
was full of entreaty.

Her brother set his lips again, wishing
that he could explain. After a pause of
consideration he said —

A man in Parliament, who believes in
democracy and don't do all he can to give

the people votes, is ' — he looked about for a
word — ' is a sneak.'

This effort did not seem to have the required
effect, for Letty still looked at him
with doubt and entreaty.

I think you ought to be ready to give up
something to the father,' she said.

But this is everything. Ask John when
he comes. He will show you. He can make
it clear.'

As he spoke of John, he determined to
write to him. This was the very first thing
to do. He even thought, that being so much
moved, he would be able to express himself
more warmly to his friend, and so some little
good might come out of this evil chance.

I can't help it,' he said, and he squeezed
his sister's little hands rather tightly. Then

he went and shut himself in his bed-room,
that he might write his letter.

Dear old man,' he wrote, and then he
stopped.

This was an affectionate style of beginning
a letter, which he had never used before.
He blushed ; he thought the words looked
gushing ; but there they were, written, and
they should go : —

'Dear Old Man, — I am not to go into
Parliament. The father won't have it. He
wanted me to promise not to vote for extending
the franchise. Of course I could not
promise ; and so I am out of it. I don't like
it. I have told nobody but Letty ; and she
thinks me wrong. She does not understand.
You will understand. I wish I could make
you know that I know what I owe you

You have made me see things straight, and
what one may do, and what one may not.
When can you get away from Oxford ? We
shall all be — glad when you come here.
Yours ever,

Paul Brent.'

He blushed again as he wrote, 'Yours
ever ; ' it looked like the ending of a romantic
schoolgirl ; but he let it stand.

VOL. I. E

CHAPTER IV.

By the afternoon post of the next day Paul
received a letter, and recognised with a secret
thrill the writing of John Maidment. Holding
it unopened in his hand, he considered it till
he had grasped the fact that it must have
been written before John had received his
letter of the day before. He smiled at the
thought that while he was reading John's
letter about everyday matters John might be
crying out with amazement over the news of
his disappointment. Smiling, he opened the
letter and began to read ; but in a moment
the smile had gone from his lips.

My dear Paul,' — John wrote — ' how shall
I ever thank you? When I read your
father's telegram offering me the seat, I knew
in a moment what you had done. Paul, my
dear friend, yours is a heart of gold. There
is not one man in ten thousand who would
forego such a chance for the sake of a friend.
But you must pause and think. It seems
absurd to write this to you, who are always
pausing and thinking. I know you must
have thought this thing through and through
before you decided that I should go before you
into Parliament. Anyway, I shan't be really
happy till we are both there, and working
together again, as we worked for the schools.
If you don't repent your sacrifice even a little
bit I can't refuse it. I am so sure that there
is my proper work — the work which I can
do best. There cannot be a doubt of that.

University nc

If I am good for anything, I am good for
speaking. It would be unpardonable in me
to refuse a chance of going into Parliament.
My obvious sphere of duty is in Parliament.
I am so glad that there can't be a shadow of
doubt about that, for your father put a thing
in his telegram which might have made me
pause if I had not been so absolutely sure
what I ought to do. He offered me the seaton
condition that I would not vote for lowering
the franchise. Of course I shall try to
argue him out of that. Anyway, it is of
course wholly different from promising to
vote against it — that I could not have promised.
But the mere absence of a single
voter can make no difference ; the odds are
incalculably great. It would be simply preposterous
for anybody to allow such a thing
to keep him from a career in which he sees

clearly his only real path of usefulness. It
would be madness. Oh, my dear Paul, how
can I thank you ? I have written all this as
if it was settled ; but you must not give up
this thing to me, if you have the least doubt
or regret. Write to me at once, and tell me.
Be sure that, if you draw back, I shall never
blame you. Only write and tell me all about
it, or I shall come flying home at once. I
can do nothing till I am sure. — Yours ever,

'John Maidment.'

Paul shut himself up with John's letter.
He could not bear to speak of it to anybody.
He read it through again deliberately ; he
examined it sentence by sentence ; he could
find no comfort in it. He was sure that his
friend was wrong, and this was a great shock,
for never before had he realised that in any

matter of any importance John Maidment
could be wrong. It was a shock to the
foundations of all his usual thoughts and feelings
; but yet he was sure that his friend Alas
wrong. Moreover, as he patiently examined
the letter, he arrived gradually at the conclusion
that his friend more than half suspected
that he was wrong. He noted all the
expressions of certainty — ' I am so sure.'
There cannot be a doubt.' ' I am so glad that
there can't be a shadow of doubt.' ' It would
be simply preposterous,' John had written,
to be turned from a useful career by such
a trifle ; it would be madness.' Paul had no
doubt : his friend was wrong, and his friend's
conscience was uneasy. He wished with all
his heart that he had been with him.

What a revolution in himself was implied
by this wish he did not stop to ask. He felt

the discomfort of the shock, but he did not
think about it. All his thoughts were for John,
and as he thought about him he was filled
with pity. The brilliant creature, who might
have grown great, was beginning with a mistake
; the young man full of noble aspirations
was yielding to the first temptation ; the
politician, who had thrilled his hearers with
visions of political purity, was to pay his
principles for the very start in the race. It
was pitiful. Paul wished with all his heart
that he had been near to strengthen him in
the hour of temptation. It was no use indulging
in such wishes. What could he do
now ? He decided that he could do nothing
yet. He must wait and see how his letter,
which had crossed this ill-omened epistle on
the road, would affect John Maidment. It
was impossible that John could consent to be

less scrupulous than he, who had always
looked to him for guidance. Poor John !
Paul foresaw that it would be bitter for his
friend to know that another had been firmer
under temptation ; but that was a small
matter, if only it might save him from beginning
Hfe with a fatal mistake. He must wait
and see how his friend would answer his
letter, and he hoped with all his heart that
the answer would include a refusal of the
Colonel's offer.

Paul had not long to wait. The post of
the next day brought John's second letter.
It was not long : —

Dear Paul, — Burn my letter of yesterday,
and forget that I wrote it. I can't tell you
how annoyed I am that I made such a mistake.
Not that the mistake was strange.

I certainly never should have suspected that
even for a moment you would have seen the
tiling in such a false light. It is to be blind
to the relative importance of things ; it is to
be not conscientious, but fantastic. To give
up a career of high utility rather than
promise to stand aside from a single measure,
which is certain to come without your help !
You must have seen before this that that
is hopelessly unpractical. Go to your father
(you have probably gone already) and tell
him you will have the seat. Don't think for a
moment that I will grudge it you. It hurt
me, I confess, that you hesitated to do what
I was ready to do. Surely you don't think
me unscrupulous. I can't believe it. You
must know after all these years that my
dangers are all on the other side. If I fail in
life, as is only too likely, my failure will be

due to a morbid conscientiousness. Of this I
am absolutely certain. More than enough of
this. I only write to ask you to burn my
last letter, and to tell your father at once that
you will take the seat. — Yours very truly,

'JoH^^ Maidment.'

To this letter Paul replied even more
shortly.

Dear John,' he wrote, ' I can't promise
what my father asks, and there is no chance
of his changing. I still hope that you won't
promise either. It is no good my arguing
about it, for you are a great deal cleverer
than I am. Still, I feel strongly that you had
better let it alone. I would give a great deal
to be able to persuade you of this. It must
be such a bad business to start wrong. I goto

America tomorrow week, and shan't be
back till the election is over.

Yours very truly,

Paul Been.'

Here the correspondence ended. Paul received
no more letters from John, but on the
day of his leaving home his father handed
him without a word an old telegram and an
open letter. The former had been sent by
John as soon as he received the Colonel's telegram,
and contained a grateful acceptance of
the seat ; the latter, which had been written at
the same time, brought more expressions of
gratitude, and asked twice why Paul had refused
the chance. Further missives had come from
John, and it was clear that he had not withdrawn
his acceptance ; and Paul, as he laid the
telegram and letter on his father's writing-table,

laid down with them his last hope of his
friend's repentance. He could not speak ; his
eyes were smarting ; he felt the pain of loneliness.
He had given to his friend unquestioning
faith and the generous admiration of
a boy. With deep delight he had made his
friend his master. Reserved and a little
narrow, he had been content with this one
master, and had concentrated on him all the
deep enthusiasm which he could not utter.
Now he had been forced to believe that this
friend was weaker than himself. It was a
revolution, with all the pain thereof. He had
no second guide to whom he might turn ; he
was forced to depend upon himself ; he stood
alone.

The Colonel, standing square before his
empty grate, was moved by a deep sympathy
for his boy, whose discomfort he in part

divined. All business details concerning the
son's tour had been settled between them in
the briefest manner. There was no more for
the father to say except ' Good-bye.' Still he
stared steadfastly at Paul, and at last he unlocked
his lips. He opened his mouth to say
that America would cure him of his democratic
fancies, but he shut it again with no
word spoken, for it did not seem as if the
remark would ease his heart. He took Paul's
hand and held it hard ; Paul wrung his
father's hand for answer ; and so they parted.
When the young traveller parted from his
sister, there was at least on one side a greater
show of emotion. Letty was furious with
John, and at first she wilfully refused to see
anything except that, like a young cuckoo,
he had shoved Paul out of a seat which was
a family possession. When her brother had

explained with care and pains that he had
refused it before it was offered to John,
and that he could not have taken it even
if his friend had refused it, she scolded
him and John too. Their conduct seemed to
confirm a theory which she was beginning to
4iold of the perversity of young men.

If he is wrong,' said Paul, patting her on
the shoulder, ' you ought to pity him. That's
what women are good for.'

Is that all? ' she said.

She thought it must be an inadequate
view of the value of women ; but, though she
mocked, she was pleased. She liked the
idea of pitying John. She was a little tired
of contemplating him on his pedestal. Her
beloved Paul had inspired her long ago with
an immense admiration for his friend — an
admiration which was excited to much liveliness

by the free criticism of her school-boy
brothers, who looked doubtfully at a man
who preferred study to looking for a rabbit.
She was as lively in defence as a ruffled hen,
and never saw John's merits so clearly as
in the holidays, when Jacky and Dicky
and Teddy accused him of being a prig.
These boys liked ' to get a rise ' out of Letty,
of whom, nevertheless, they highly approved.
Yet sometimes, when the younger brothers
were at school, their sister grew restless in
the attitude of respectful admiration ; and the
idea of being able to pity John came with an
irresistible fascination. It appealed to something
protective in her, a dormant motherliness.
She had been zealous in defending
an idol on a pedestal, and now the idol was
proved to be so small that she could protect
him under her wins.

'Be kind to him,' said Paul rather
hoarsely. He was sure that John would
come home in no comfortable mood, and he
was very sorry for him.

Yes said Letty with sudden tears in her
eyes, ' I'll try to be kind.'

CHAPTEE V.

Paul had gone, but John still lingered in
Oxford. He had stayed up after term time
to write an essay, with which he hoped to
gain a University prize ; but after the arrival
of Colonel Brent'^s offer he had not written a
word of his essay, nor thought of it, except
to assure himself eagerly that he need never
finish it. As he was taking his final leave of
Oxford, he wanted to pack his books or see
them packed ; and perhaps some impulse to
sentimental leave-takings kept him rambling
about the walks of Magdalen or the field
paths of the surrounding hills. But still
Letty pronounced it amazing, and the Colonel
VOL. I. F

thought it strange, that John delayed his
coming.

The delay was certainly unusual, for John
Maidment was wont to hurry to these good
friends ; and, though he was not related to
them even in the remotest degree, he had
never known any home but theirs. Indeed,
it seemed to John impossible that he had ever
had any other home. The pictures of his
childhood which his memory had kept were
as apparently commonplace as those of most
people, but in no two of them was the background
the same. Here and there in those
first years, which are so long, a chance scene
remained starting clear, like a brightly
lighted station in a night journey by rail,
while tracts of time between, with all their
infant joys and sorrows, were mere darkness.
There was a picture of a woman with a dark

face, and earrings eyes and teeth all gleaming,
who chirped shrilly to a canary piping more
shrilly in answer, while the sun poured under
the yellow blind a broad flood of mottled
yellow light. There was another picture of a
redder face and a gay cap, which the infant
John was tearing from its place, while he was
half dragged and half carried down a passage
covered with oilcloth ; and, when in later life
he recalled this scene, he could hear the key
turn with a horrid shriek in the lock, and he
was alone again in the dark, wild with grief
and fury, beating on the door. There were
two or three more such pictures, which John
could summon from the past at will, and in
every picture there was a different woman.
From this fact he inferred that nurses did not
stay long with him, as from the difference
of the backgrounds he inferred that he had

r 2

spent a great part of his extreme youth in
travel.

Of all the disconnected scenes of early
childhood which his memory had kept for him,
the one which the boy liked best was this.

He was standing on a garden seat, and
about him was a soft arm covered with some
light stuff, and he was looking down at the
sea ; and the sea was all blue, like blue paint,
lightly speckled with gold, and ruffled and
glancing ; and close beside him was a tall
tree, and somebody said it was Hke an
umbrella, and he tried hard to see that it was
like an umbrella ; and other ladies had come
about him, laughing and kissing him, and saying
that he was pretty. A certain perfume
always brought this picture before him in a
moment. And while these soft creatures
were petting him, a man came laughing too

and touched his cheek with a fair silky
moustache, and murmured, ' Little son ! '

And one of the ladies cried out, ' Do you
call him little son because you've forgotten
his name ? '

And the man answered with more laughter,
• I forget everything.'

After many years John could recall the
exact tone of voice in which the smiling,
exquisite man had answered ; and he liked to
recall it and the whole scene therewith, for it
was all that he could remember of his father.
And John Maidment was very much interested
in his father, and this impression of him
as a most charming man was very pleasant to
him. It explained everything satisfactorily.
Besides, there was no other relative for him
to think about. His mother had died before
the date of his first mental picture ; and it

early became clear to him that he had either
no having relations or none who cared to cultivate
his acquaintance.

In the early days of his life at Brent-holme
he asked a great many questions
about his father, but, as Colonel Brent was
the only person who could have answered
them, he obtained very little information.
So the boy became indignant, and asked no
more questions on that subject. And very
soon he became busy in building up a
complete theory of his father out of the
scanty materials which he had gathered, and
his single vivid impression of a charming
personality. He assured himself that Wilfred
Maidment (even the name was suggestive of
charm) had been the most brilliant and
popular man of his day. He knew that the
Colonel and he had been brother officers, and

he decided that the slow, silent Philip Brent
had found in the friendship of his irresistible
comrade the greatest delight of which he was
capable. It was evident that Philip had owed
all the brightness of his Hfe to Wilfred, and
the guardianship of his son was but a poor
return. Indeed, John went so far as to
assure himself that it was a great privilege
for Colonel Brent to look after Wilfred's boy.
As he did not like the idea of being under
obligations to people, he found great comfort
in this assurance. Without a doubt he was
a treat, as Wilfred's boy ; and he need not
trouble his guardian, who blushed and
frowned under interrogation, with questions
about the source of his pocket-money and the
cheques for schooling and tailors. Probably
they came from America, where it was understood
that Mr. Maidment was dabbling in

silver mines ; but, if the Colonel paid the bills,
he would be paid of course when his friend
came home, and in the meantime it was a
privilege for him to do what he could to
repay the debt of happiness which he owed
to the comrade of his youth.

Thus John made for himself a delightful
story of an unequal friendship in which the
gratitude was all on one side, and a delightful
picture of his absent parent, with the contemplation
of which he often pleased himself.
Once or twice in the early years the Colonel
had unlocked his Hps and informed John that
his father was coming home ; but each time
he had had to repeat the unlocking process
to say that he was not coming. Then even
the rumours of home-coming ceased. The
Colonel occasionally received letters from
Newport or Denver, or intermediate places,

but he did not show them to John. He
carried them off to his own den, and pored
over them, making slow calculations with
many figures, and answering them at last
with diiSculty, and yet with brevity.

When young Maidment was at school and
rapidly finding out that he was more clever
than his neighbours, he thought less and less
about his absent parent. There was the
Colonel, an excellent every-day father, more
free of money than of jaw ; and for the rest
the easy acquisition of all sorts of knowledge,
with an average amount of summer cricket
and football in winter, filled almost all his
thoughts. To surpass his fellows with apparent
ease, to know a lot of things and to be
admired for the knowledge, to win well-bound
books, became more pleasant than
toffee, though the boy always had a sweet

tooth. And so, as time went on and he
socked ' in places more and more exclusive,
he ceased to wonder why he heard so Httle of
his father, and why he did not see him. The
father whom he had constructed for himself
remained more or less in the dark, and was
only dragged out with effusion on very rare
occasions. When for instance John felt that
his talents received a cold acknowledgment,
or when he had dashed himself like a flowing
wave against some solid purpose of the
Colonel, then he would assure himself with
fury that all would be well if his real father
were with him. Trembling with a great
excitement, he would fly to his ideal parent,
who somewhere in the silver mountains was
making a fortune in a manner the most picturesque.
A fur-clad hero of Ballantyne, a
modern Raleigh, chief ornament of court and

camp, an exiled prince in search of adventures,
there always was Wilfred Maidment,
exquisite, with a fair moustache, not a day
older, to carry comfort to his wounded boy.

At last came a telegram from Oxford
announcing John's coming, and a few hours
later came John himself. It was evening
when he stepped into the cool bare hall,
where the same old fox's mask smiled above
the whip-rack, and where the stuffed heron
leaned only a little more awry on the old
marble-topped table.

At the bang of the front door Jacky and
Dicky and Teddy dashed into the hall.
They had but just come home for the summer
holidays, and they greeted the new-comer
with a warmth which was caused in part by
the intoxication of the first days of free
roving. Those of the dogs who had the run

of the house trooped in at their heels, and
the whole party filled the house with a delightful
clamour of welcome.

But John looked beyond these boys and
dogs with anxious eyes. It seemed ominous
to him that Letty had not come with the rest.
She had meant to run out of the room with
the others ; she too had jumped up at the
sound of the door ; but some new shyness
suddenly stopped her, and she stood listening,
breathing quickly. John's heart sank; he
was offended ; he felt her criticism in the air.
As he shook hands with the young Brents
and patted a dog or two in passing, he was
hotly but silently defending his own action,
and running through once more the many
arguments which proved the folly of Paul.
He was looking so anxiously for the girl, that
at first he did not notice the Colonel standing

in the entrance of his den ; but the Colonel
looked at him and was not satisfied. Even in
the dim light his strong eyes saw that John
was pale and that his mouth was anxious and
irritable, and the sight made him sad. John
was not far wrong in his theory of the feeling
which the Colonel had had for Wilfred Maidment.
The companionship of his graceful
friend had doubled the light of Philip Brent's
life when they were boys in the Guards ; and
when the same friend who had always
brought his troubles to Philip finally brought
his son, who was the chief trouble of the
moment, the Colonel received the child without
a murmur.

Both friends had married and both had
lost their wives, and the one who had been
left with five children took the one child of
the other without a murmur, though with a

sure conviction that he would have to be
alone responsible for his bringing up. He
had been alone responsible ; and as he had
watched the boy growing in grace and inability,
there had grown up in him an affection
as strong and deep as that which he
had felt for his father. It had in truth become
a privilege to look after Wilfred's boy.
He had been glad to see the boy grow in the
clean air of Brentholme and the fine simplicity
of its daily life from a sallow nervous
child to a young man quick and abounding in
energy. As he saw the boy's industry and
zeal for knowledge, he had slowly acquired
an immense belief in him. Slowly, too, he
had formed the theory that here was his lost
friend without his old weaknesses and withall
his old charm. He had said in his heart
that here was a Wilfred without errors.

As he never said these things aloud, John
Maidment, though he guessed the friendship
which had existed between his real father
and the father who paid his bills, never
guessed how great a measure of the old devotion
had descended to himself. The Colonel
loved him as a child of his own, and yet with
a peculiar tenderness for the child of his
friend. Now, as he stared anxiously at him
in the shadows, he told himself that he had
never seen him look so ill since he had taken
him, a puny child of seven, from his father's
arms.

CHAPTEE VI.

When Letty had so far conquered her unusual
shyness that she could look at John, she too
could see that he was not well. He was pale
and silent, and on small provocation irritable ;
and when he talked at all he talked feverishly
and laughed too often. She could see
that he was ill at ease ; she felt more and
more sorry for him, as she would have felt fora
naughty boy who had had quite enough
punishment. Now in his presence, as before
in imagination, she found a pleasure in this
pity; but, when she looked at the young
man with a new kindness, he was thrilled with

annoyance, as if each nerve were conscious of
her venturing to criticise him. He did not
want to be pitied. He must have her loyal
friendship and admiration. He could not do
without it. He made up his mind to broach
this matter of Parliament as soon as he could
find the girl alone. Better the immediate
discussion of this uncomfortable topic than
the gnawing consciousness that it was in the
thoughts of both and would fill every moment
of silence with intolerable uneasiness.

Full of this purpose of instant speech, he
went to bed and had a restless night. He
had not slept well of late, and, as this was
unprecedented in his life, he was vexed. At
Brentholme his bedroom was next to Paul's,
and this nearness sent his thoughts wandering
across the Atlantic with the string of excellent
arguments of which he was heartily sick.

VOL. I. G

Had not this wretched question of the borough
caused him pain enough in his lonely days
and restless nights at Oxford ? He had told
himself a thousand times that he had done
right ; he was furious at being obliged to tell
himself so often. And now when he was at
home, where it was natural that he should find
rest and comfort after his struggles, the whole
air was full of the criticism of this girl, this
mere child, who ought to know that he was
right without any explanation. He declared to
himself that it would be too absurd to explain
his conduct to Letty ; but yet he knew that
he had no chance of the repose which he
needed until he had talked to her about the
whole matter. He would talk to her and
have done with it ; but an uneasy doubt
cropped up once more whether even then he
would have done nth it.

On the next morning, when Letty, busy
with her garden scissors, saw John coming,
she saw too, more clearly than by candlelight,
how ill he looked. His face was white
and haggard, though he held it high and put
on a severe expression. She was not at all
impressed by his grand air. She had meant to
be very kind to him, being very sure that he
had suffered much ; but she felt rebellious
again, as he came and stood over her and she
snipped off the wrong bud. He began to talk
at once and to talk of Paul. When he had
begun, it seemed easier than he had hoped.
His words were always a great help to him.
He spoke of Paul very kindly and regretfully,
with the manner of a wise and good doctor
discussing a self-willed patient. He seemed to
take it for granted that his was the only possible
view, and that his listener must agree

VOL. 1. * G 2

with him. Now this exasperated Letty, and
her intentions of sympathy vanished with
amazing quickness. She would not hear Paul
spoken of as if he had something the matter
with him.

How could he promise ' — she broke out
suddenly — ' not to do what he thought he
ought to do ? '

It's absurd,' began John, and could get
no further. He stood digging his heel into
the grass. He had expected that Letty would
ask some such question, but, when he heard
it, he liked it none the better.

I don't suppose I can make you understand,'
he began again, and again stopped ; and
the girl went on with her business and said
nothing. ' It's absurd of Paul to suppose that
his support is necessary to this measure of
reform ; it's certain to be ; the cart wheel will

go round with or without the fly ; it seems tome
a sort of vanity to suppose that one is so
important.'

Paul isn't vain,' she said, standing straight
and looking at him ; ' you know he isn't ; he
hasn't a bit of vanity.'

John smiled in a superior manner.

Don't suppose that I blame Paul,' he said.

But you do — you do blame him when
you say he's vain ; he isn't a bit vain.'

'I think you may trust me not to abuse
my friends. You may trust me so far at least.
I meant no more than that it looked like
attaching too much importance to himself.
He was not even asked to oppose this measure,
this one measure ; he was merely asked to
stand on one side and see it pass. Upon my
word it's ridiculous ; I can't understand it in a
man like Paul.'

He felt as if lie must make her speak ; but
she was bending her head again, that he
might not see her eyes, which a thought of
the absent Paul, whom she had blamed before
he went, had filled with tears. Her heart was
full of loyalty to her brother.

At least,' said John, after a pause, in a
calmer and a more provoking tone, ' it shows
that Paul is not yet fit for political life.'

Perhaps he isn't,' she cried, in a moment ;
perhaps he is a great deal too good.'

It's good enough for me, I suppose,'
he cried out angrily, ' but not for Paul.'

She did not answer.

Really,' he went on after a moment, ' I
think I may be trusted not to do a mean
action ! It's too ridiculous ! Nobody ever
accused me of doing anything mean. I don't
pretend to be perfect, but you know as well

as I do that everybody has always laughed at
me for being over-scrupulous and over-conscientious,
and — and '

He stopped short, struck suddenly by the
thought that there was something ridiculous
in his words ; he looked angrily at the girl to
see if she was smiling. She was not smiling ;
she was resisting an impulse to slap him.

Of course,' he continued, ' I believe as
much as Paul in universal suffrage and all that ;
but one must give up something in life ; one
cannot expect everything to be just as one
wants it. Was I to allow a single preference of
my own to keep me from a career in which I
know that I have a chance of being useful to
the world ? I should have blamed myself all
my life long if I had refused the chance and
wrapped myself in my virtue and my talent ina
napkin. Why don't you write to Paul. ^ Why

don't you persuade him to come back ? He
knows, anyway, that I would not stand m his
way for one moment.'

She listened to him with pouting hips and
arched eyebrows, and, when he had finished
his speech, she looked up at him, and —

I think Paul was right,' she said loyally.

Then you think me wrong ? ' he cried out
sharply.

Oh, John,' she said, ' I don't want to say
any more ; I don't want to blame you — only
you must not blame Paul.'

Of course I am nothing in comparison
with Paul.'

He was sick of his own arguments, and
angry with her because she would not argue.
He was very restless, and, after standing silent
beside her for another long minute, he
shrugged his shoulders and marched off to

the house. She looked after him with a face
full of doubt ; she was longing to throw the
garden-scissors at him as he stalked away indignity,
and longing to call him back and to
say that she was sorry for having hurt him.

John Maidment passed a disagreeable
day, in which the clamour of boys and dogs
seemed at times an intentional insult ; and
the disagreeable day was followed by an
almost sleepless night. He began to think
that he must be ill, and visions of possible
maladies trooped by his pillow. Most persuasive
arguments which he might have used
in his talk with Letty came to him in the
silent watches, and he dismissed them more
and more angrily. Again and again he
declared to himself with fervour that his
conduct needed no defence, that it was extremely
praiseworthy. Did he not know —

was he the only man who did not know — that
it was waste of time to argue with girls ?
Girls are notoriously irrational. Was he the
best judge of his own conduct, or was Miss
Brent? Such a question needed no answer.
He assured himself that he ought to be angry
with Letty.

But let him reason as he would, no fine
chain of arguments would draw him down to
sleep, nor away from the haunting certainty
that he should know no perfect rest till he
and she were friends. They had always been
friends. He could not be quiet under her
disapproval. It vexed him almost beyond
endurance that she, unreasonable girl though
she was, should not approve of all his words
and actions. His nerves and his arguments
would not let him lie quiet in bed. Hot and

restless he dashed out of his bedroom in the
morning. He needed the kixury of the fresh
clear air. He needed the presence of Letty,
and to make her his friend once more.

CHAPTEE Vn.

Though John was early, he was by no means
the first of the household to taste the sweet
air of the morning. The boys had planned a
visit to the brook in the valley, where, even
in summer heat, there was one hole in which
after a walk of a mile and a half they could
get almost as good a bath as in their own
rooms. These boys liked the days to belong
; they followed the same pursuits ; they
were capital friends. If they quarrelled, they
made it up without explanations ; if each
fought for his right, the winner was as likely
as not to give up the prize to the loser ; if
they had borne some buffets from each other,

they were as one against the rest of the
world, bound by an alliance unwritten, even
unspoken. They took each other on a
sensible work-a-day level. They did not go
into solitary places to ponder on their mutual
offences ; they did not conclude that the world
was hollow because brother was not always
loving brother, nor would make any show of
loving him when he refused to do his fair
share of bowling. They had tumbled up together
very happily in the wholesome country
air, and in that simplicity of life which seemed
good to their stalwart father.

Now, as these lads' returned from their
morning bath they skirted the village by a
field-path, and, when they came to the field
beyond the churchyard, there they espied
their sister running races with the old rector's
watchdog. This excellent mongrel, who was

of SO amiable a temper that he would not
bark at the most notorious robber of hen-roosts
in the county, appealed very strongly to
Letty's pity on account of the monotony of
his Hfe, which was not relieved, as is that
of more commonplace watch-dogs, by fits of
furious clamour and attempts to strangle himself
with his collar. So, when Letty had
gone through the farmyard and said ' Good-morning
' to the other girl, who came clattering
out of the dairy with her broad face rosy
and shining, and when she had gone down
the village street and had received a good
report of the blacksmith's baby, she remembered
the parson's ineffectual guardian
and loosed him and took him for a run in his
master's meadow.

Letty was light-hearted this morning, for
she had made up her mind to be kinder to

John. To be angry with those she loved was
always painful to Letty ; and her conscience
had been pricking her, and that was painful
too. Paul had told her to be very kind to
John, and now Paul was countless miles away,
and she had seized the first opportunity of
doing what he had asked her not to do : she
had been unkind to John. As to this irritating
political matter, she was quite ready to
believe that they were both wrong. She had
an idea, that men were always getting hot and
wrong-headed about poetics ; and she had
another idea, that young men who were given
to talking of women as irrational were themselves
extremely fantastic. Very likely Paul
had been absurd : he was the dearest of
young men, but still a young man. But nobody
must say to her that Paul was absurd ;
nobody must even think it in her presence.

If John would refrain from hinting or even
looking blame of her brother, she would be
kind to John. She could not bear not to be.
Of course John was wrong — more wrong
than Paul ; of course he ought to have refused
to profit by his friend's loss — to step
into his friend's shoes, however wilful it was
of the other to step out of them. John was
wrong; but, if only he would not blame
Paul, she would forgive him for Paul's sake
and his own. After all, there was a hidden
sweetness in the thought that John could be
wrong : it was delightful to forgive him. She
had begun to be a little bored by his perfection.
She would be kind to him : she asked
herself why he should care, but she felt that
he would care. It was strange that her kindness
should matter to a man, strange and
sweet. She had begun several romances in

her day ; she had written them hastily in
old copy-books, when she was tired of playing
with her brothers, or riding over the
downs, or going to see her village friends ;
she had left them all unfinished.

As she ran with the dog in the old
rector's meadow, a sudden thought of one of
these tales, locked safely away in her old
oak box, came to her and made her stop ina
moment. What if the tale, which had
seemed so far away from real life, should
not be impossible after all ? What if it
should be her story, here and now, in this
real home of hers, which had seemed a
million miles from the utmost bounds of
the romantic world ? She stood still indignant
; she was ashamed that such a thought
had come to her for a moment ; she stamped
her foot and bade it go ; she vowed she

VOL. I. H

would bum her old copy-books and tamper
no more with these phantoms, which could
start up like this and make her feel silly.

Silly ' was a severe word in Letty's vocabulary.
She pressed her hands to her cheeks
as if she would push in the blushes; and
then she saw that her worthy comrade
crouched before her observant and challenging,
with his stubbly chin rubbed on the
grass, and with a laugh she set off running
again, and only stopped when her brothers
hailed her from beyond the straggling hedge.
These creatures would be young men too,
and she felt inclined to scold them. Her
quick eyes saw at a glance that Teddy, for a
walk through the dewy grass, had put on his
evening pumps, and she rated him, and the
boy laughed. It was so like these young
brothers of hers; they always dashed into

the wrong clothes, very often each into the
other's. If Jacky caught a fish, he caught
it with Dicky's rod and Teddy's Hne, and then
they argued the question to whom the fish
belonged.

On this occasion, as they came out of the
field-path on to the road and saw John standing
hatless by the old park gates, it was
borne in on Dicky that he had picked up
somebody's hat in the dim light of the hall,
and so without waiting for discussion he
dashed through the gates as if a gadfly had
stung him, and his brothers rushed after him
with a cry.

Thus Letty was left to walk towards John
alone. She would have been angry with him
for staring had she not seen, as he stood bareheaded
in the clear morning light, that he
was pale and anxious-eyed. Indeed, John's

H 2

face showed marked effects of the painful
struggle which had been again and again
renewed since the wretched day when he had
received Paul's letter at Oxford. He had
suffered much in spite of all his hot arguments
with himself. He had suffered, and
the girl regarding him in the tell-tale light
was full of pity. If he were weak and needed
help, she would try to help him. A great
tenderness brought tears to her eyes. She
would have liked to defend him against somebody,
as she used to defend him from the
curt criticisms of her younger brothers. He
looked so ill that she was frightened.

John saw Letty coming with the morning
sunlight slanting about her, and fresh from
classical atmosphere he thought of Hebe. A
poet might have pleased himself with the
fancy that the dew lingered on the wayside

grass and the freshness of dawn in the air till
the maiden had passed by. John was not a
poet ; he had not even made verses except in
dead languages ; but the charm of the young
girl touched him in his most poetic corner.
His mood was very different from that of
yesterday ; it was different, and he knew that
it would serve him better. Yesterday he had
told himself that he could do without this
wilful creature's sympathy, but now he knew
that he could not do without it, and he knew
too that his softened mood would win it. He
had an exquisite sense of her brightness
and morning charm ; he was sure that nobody
would appreciate her loveliness as he did ; he
felt that she was made for him. He said
nothing, but held out his hand.

I am sorry,' she said, and could say no
more.

It made me very unhappy,' said John
softly. His voice was always musical, and
now it seemed full of feeling. 'I can't do
without your help,' he cried more eagerly.
I want you to help me ; there is nobody
so much to me.'

She felt herself blushing and trembling,
half happy, half vexed with the world ; and
suddenly back came the thought of the
unfinished romance in the box. How was
she to know what these new intrusive feelings
meant? She did not like them, yet would
not have them away. How should she know
if this were love, though she had written
fluently about it in blank books ? She wished
he would say something, and not stand
staring at her. If he did not let her hand
go, she felt that she should pull it away, and
perhaps box his ears, or perhaps begin to cry

like a fool. And then she did pull her hand
away, and then she thought she had been
unkind again, and so she seized his hand
again, and pressed it for a moment. It was a
promise of help, of friendship, perhaps of
more. With all her generosity, she felt that
she had pledged herself, and she would not
draw back ; only she would not think yet
what her unspoken promise meant.

John was quick to feel, and he felt that
he had better keep silence. There was no
hurry ; he felt sure of her. When her hand
pressed his, he accepted all which it could be
made to mean ; he felt sure of her. He had
never doubted Letty ; he knew that she was
true ; it was a keen delight to foresee that
some day it would be this girl's chief duty to
be true to him.

And now began a very healing time for

John Maidment. There was peace between
him and Letty. It is true that now and then
came a wild impulse to prove to her that
Paul had been wrong — absurdly wrong ; but
he bit his hips and walked away till the fit
was over, and in time this impulse came less
often and less strong.

Then letters came from Paul, letters a
little less brief than his speech, and in them
were messages for John as for the rest ; and
so Paul's name came to be mentioned naturally
between John and Letty, and so a
barrier fell.

At last she spoke to him of his public life
with curiosity and with no sign of blame,
and at the word he poured forth much which
he had been longing to say to her. He spoke
with growing fire of his hopes of being useful
to his fellows, of his high ideal of a life

devoted to the public good ; and the girl, as
she listened, felt that it would be hard indeed
that anyone so brilliant and noble-hearted
should be kept from the service of his
country. She almost forgot that she had
blamed him ; and nothing of the blame remained
but that consciousness of his fallibility,
which made him the more human, the more
lovable. All things seemed to work together
for the comfort of this young man who had
suffered. He had a fine taste for luxury, and
the very simplicity of Brentholme life gave this
midsummer luxury its finest flavour. It was
the noon of the year, full summer, and the
birds were still, and the trees in the deep
valleys massive and dark with leaves. All
day the old grey house stood open to delicious
air, and now and then the air was stirred and
quickened by light breezes from the open

downs and open sea beyond. There were
shady places in the park ; there was the best
turf m the world ; there was a charming girl,
a little more silent than usual, a little more
ready to listen. And John talked about himself,
with only an occasional doubt whether
he were not talking of himself too much.
It was delightful to feel this young girl's
sympathy ; it was delightful to look forward
to an exciting eventful life. He looked to the
future with a growing confidence. Whatever
it might bring, he would be there, and he
could trust himself. The presence of the
girl charmed him ; the vision of his future
charmed him ; the dream of the two combined
soothed him with the most exquisite
charm. This charm he did not mean to
destroy by definite speech. The first approaches
of young people are rich in delicate

shades of feeling, when even doubts and fears
are a form of pleasure ; and John found the
soft ebb and flow of tender emotions and
hesitations very much to his taste. The
lisping of the little waves in the uncertain
moonlight is lost when the clear sun rises
on a day of explanations and arrangements.
John knew that there was a lifetime before
him for plain speaking. His keen eyes grew
dreamy and his lips smiled of themselves, ashe
lingered by Letty, and wooed her with
every look and every tone of his expressive
voice.

CHAPTER Vm.

It was a milky morning in London, and
the day was St. Valentine's Day. The
west wind was blowing softly, and the soft
blue sky was flecked with little fleecy clouds.
These brief delusive glimpses of the spring
come to us year after year in February ; it
seems for a day that winter has gone, and
life begins again.

To John Maidment treading the London
pavement it seemed that life was beginning
indeed. Parliament had just met, and he
was a member ; social houses were beginning
to open their doors, and he was invited to

enter ; all about him was the stir of novel
and interesting life. He walked fast along the
Embankment, glad of the freshness of the
morning and of the swelling tide with the
brown barges drifting ; it pleased him to walk
towards Westminster, and to glance up at the
clock-tower with a keen sense of property.
If an unquiet thought crossed him, he said to
himself with decision that Paul would have
felt so much less pleasure in all this than he
did ; he was sure that Paul was enjoying his
American tour as he never could enjoy poetical
Hfe ; he almost fancied himself envying
his friend the sight of that interesting, puzzling,
and gigantic country. His thoughts flew to
Brentholme as he came striding into St.
James's Park, and fancying Letty there bareheaded
in the soft light he was glad of all the
quiet and snuphcity for her. That peaceful

simple home seemed the right place for the
pretty warm-hearted girl, who was doubtless
thinking of him. It was well for her to be
there, thinking of him, waiting for him. His
fancies made him glow. When he was
wearied by his labours, how sweet it
would be to go for rest to that wholesome
corner of the world, and to find welcome in
those clear innocent eyes ! Brentholme and
its quiet folk were there, and he could
take them up again whenever he chose, and
find them just the same. Meanwhile he had
a thousand things to do, and he felt strong
enough to do them all.

There was drill on the Horse Guards'
Parade, and, as John came near, the men in
their tight white jackets began to march off
the ground. Their slanted bayonets were
blue in the slanting fight ; the drums and fifes

VOL. I. I

began their cheerful comical music ; the
young man's heart leapt responsive ; he walked
all round the Park for the sake of their company.
The waters of the big pond were pale
blue, almost as blue as the slanted bayonets,
in the milky light. But that the sooty trees
were bare, it might have been the first morning
of summer.

John marched exultant. As the full soft
wind met him with a caress, his heart leapt
up in answer ; his confidence was almost
ecstasy. It was a glorious thing that he had
taken his first step in public life ; he had
but to keep marching, and he was bound to
arrive. It was good for him and good for
the world too, for he was on the right side ;
and how great a thing it was that he, with all
this power and vigour, which he felt in every
quivering nerve and every flying thought,

was on the right side ! Surely it was no bad
world, in which a man so eager to do good
and so able found a fair way open for his feet
at the very beginning of his life. Paul himself
ought to be delighted that the chance
had passed from him to his friend. It would
be a narrow selfishness in Paul to feel a
moment's regret that a Parliamentary career
lay open to one who had so much greater
power of doing good. John said to himself
that his friend was incapable of narrow selfishness.
His imagination showed him in the
future some triumphant night, and he felt the
pressure of Paul's hand eloquent of fervent
admiration. For John, full of exciting
visions, the regulation pace was not fast
enough. He had soon walked away from the
marching soldiers, and his pace grew quicker
with his thoughts. He lifted his face to the

I 2

clear morning light, in which above the old
red palace of St. James, as in a bath of air,
the bright-plumed pigeons were circling.
It may be that each detail of the fair hour
added something to the young man's exaltation,
but it is certain that he did not dwell on
a single detail. He felt the quickening power
of the day ; and his quick mind flew, now to
his many advantages, now to the questions
of the day which seemed so easy to answer ;
exultant it passed to and fro between the
review of its own bright weapons and the
scenes where they would be used. To John's
flying thoughts, as to his hurrying feet, there
was a slight obstruction by the garden wall
of Marlborough House ; for there were leaning
or standing the usual loungers, men and
boys, with pot-hats and pipes, awaiting the
daily band.

And now the band came marching in all
their bravery, stalwart and gilded, and playing
the music of ' Carmen.' The music,
richer than the drums and fifes which he had
left, raised John up again, and brought a rush
of words to his hips. He was making fine
bits of a speech as he stepped along, imagining
sentences of an Opposition speaker and
darting in reply the most brilliant and annoying
epigrams. He did not have a moment's
difficulty in speaking for the other man, or
for himself. Indeed, he was carried away sofar
by this delightful pastime, that in Pall
Mall a lady called him twice before he was
aware of her presence.

Lady Gertrude Bookham was not in the
habit of calling in vain. She pushed her
horse to the edge of the pavement, and
stopped him short within arm's length of the

inattentive youth. As John looked up with
a start the young lady laughed, but there was
a little complaint in her tone as she said —

I can't imagine why you should want to
cut me.'

'Nor can I,' said he, like one awakened
from sleep, and they both laughed and looked
at each other. She was very pleasant to look
at, sumptuous in shape and colour as a
Venetian lady of Titian, straight and active
as an English girl accustomed to air and
exercise. She sat her handsome horse superbly,
and as she looked down upon John
the moment's annoyance gave way to frank
approval.

My father wants you to come to us at
Boucherett for Easter,' she said.

John hesitated ; he had meant to spend
Easter at Brentholme ; Boucherett was one of

the finest houses in England, and Lord
Whimley and Boucherett an influential
person in the political world, though he
belonged to the opposite party.

You are not engaged ? ' asked the young
lady quickly.

No,' said John.

'Very well, then,' she said with a short
laugh, ' I suppose you will honour us ? '

There was a trace of impatience in her
tone, at which the tall young man who was
riding with her laughed.

John looked at him with sudden enmity.

Of course said Lady Gertrude plaintively,
if you have anything pleasant to do '

But I haven't,' said John quickly. ' I
shall be delighted to come ; I was thinking of
other things ; you took my breath away.'

And now she beamed again, for there was

something complimentary in his words and
looks. As she turned her horse away she
became aware of her attendant cavalier, and
called to John again.

Mr. Maidment ! Mr. Maidment, don't
you know my cousin Algy ? You had better
know him ; you'll meet at Boucherett.'

When two young Englishmen of the well-fed
class are made known to each other, there
is generally a trace of defiance in their mutual
recognition. Between these two the trace
was more than usually definite : they both
nodded stiffly. They recognised each other
at a glance ; they were of about the same
age ; they had been at the same school ; they
had been at the same time at different colleges
at Oxford ; neither had sought the society of
the other ; both had been leaders in the world
of boys, and both had felt from the first a

mutual dislike. John now felt as if there
was a look of contempt in the light coloured
eyes of his old acquaintance ; he flushed
slightly, and his nod was the more curt of the
two.

Algy Garner looked both fierce and lazy,
both heavy and refined. His head was like a
marble head, which the sculptor had finished
in the upper parts, but only roughly indicated
in the lower. The mouth, which John
remembered in the tell-tale days of boyhood
large and somewhat shapeless, with lips too
often pressed tight together by anger, was now
hidden by a big moustache ; but the heaviness
of the chin was still apparent. The forehead,
on the contrary, though it looked narrow
in comparison with the jaw, was finely
formed, and the aquiline nose conveyed to the
most careless observer an impression of

aristocracy. Mr. Garner was tall, long-limbed,
strongly and rather heavily built.
He was understood to be a handsome man ;
he looked as if he came of a race accustomed
to be promptly obeyed ; with discipline, which
he detested, he would have made a fine
cavalry officer; he had no occupation ; he had
had a small fortune. At school and college
he had been a leader, when he chose to be, a
leader in mischief of the more dangerous sort ;
but though he had been followed, he had not
been popular. He had been quick to show
his contempt of any hanging back, and not
the least careful to hide his opinion that the
fellow who hesitated for a moment was
afraid — an imputation peculiarly bitter to
boys. Altogether he was an uncomfortable
creature, admired rather than liked, indifferent
with flashes of white fierceness, taking

all the luxuries of life without gratitude,
riding hard and killing his thousands of game
with small show of enjoyment. Most women
admired him none the less because his manner
to them varied from indifference to something
like rudeness ; but of all the women
of his acquaintance only one thought that
she could manage him, and that one was his
cousin, Lady Gertrude Bookham.

CHAPTEE IX.

John found London a big place. Even in
those small parts of London, the political
world and the world of exclusive society,
there were a great many other young men.
But the feeling of the crowd rather exhilarated
than depressed John Maidment : he rejoiced
that there were many competitors ; he felt no
depressing sense of his insignificance. The
race was about to begin, and he was in capital
training — not ' fat and scant of breath,' as a
youth overfull of unpractical philosophy. He
had studied metaphysics at Oxford, but had
taken good care, as he told himself, not to go

too far. He had stopped, as he thought, at
the right place. It was right to know what
philosophers were talking about, even perhaps
to show them in some unoccupied moment
that one knew what they were talking about ;
he did not mean to be set down as a Philistine
politician ; he must know a little of all things
which interested his intelligent contemporaries,
literature, art, philosophy. But for
the moment these matters were of small
value ; all the time which he could spare from
the absorbing study of politics, which had
but just become the business of his life, was
demanded by little social duties, which in
their novelty were not without a certain
charm also. There were always notes to
answer, cards to leave, dinners to eat, parties
at which it was well to make a bow. He was
one in a crowd of young men, but he was one

of the more favoured ; he was not only entertained
as a new member of the party by the
wives of political magnates, but he was made
welcome also at the smaller parties of the
most agreeable women. He was called ' very
good-looking ' and ' out of the common,' and
his air of abundant energy kept in due
drawing-room bounds by good taste had a
peculiar success in a society open-eyed and
open-mouthed for novelty.

In some few people of this select world he
aroused memories almost exciting of his brilliant
and fascinating father ; they asked each
other what on earth had become of Wilfred
Maidment, when had he vanished and whither,
was he alive or dead ; they debated whether
the son were not handsomer than the father ;
they tried to remember if they had ever
heard of Wilfred having a son. They soon

gave up these vain questions, content with
the fact of the boy, a fact agreeable both to
eye and ear ; they saw his good looks ; they
heard that he was wonderfully clever ; they
thought it better not to speak to him of their
old friend Wilfred, since nobody could answer
the question whether he were alive or
dead.

If John received some flattering attention
in society, he aroused a more intelligent curiosity
in the shrewdest of the political elders
whom he met in the House of Commons. It
is true that an Oxford reputation does little
for a youth beyond imposing on him the duty
of proving that he is no prig ; but John's gift
of words had been held at the university so
remarkable, that rumours of his power had
reached the ears even of party leaders. They
smiled in a superior manner when their sons

and nephews spoke of Maidment's oratory,
but they thought that, prig or not, the young
member was probably worth getting hold of.
Moreover, when John entered the House he
was a marked man ; he looked so young and
so clever, that he seemed to have stepped
in from the iniquitous old days of pocket
boroughs. His was one of the last of these
channels for introducing young men of talent
to the business of the country. Boroughs are
won now by other qualities than conspicuous
ability ; and among the bald pates of dozing
legislators the keen boyish head of the new
member was refreshing as wild flowers among
the rocks. He could not help being a marked
man ; he had no wish to help it.

But after all it was neither his youth nor
his ability, his gifts nor his graces, which had
most to do with attracting the attention of the

very shrewdest of the politicians of the da' :
it was the hour of his appearance in the
political world. It was an hour of doubt and
change.

The old lines of division, which had
seemed distinct as the limit of life, were everywhere
smudged and confused. The two great
parties, without which it had appeared to
English politicians that poetics were impossible,
were so much alike at the edges
that prominent persons slipped from one
to the other with no apparent change of
doctrine. A Tory statesman took office in a
Liberal Government, and almost at the same
moment a couple of Liberal landowners supported
a Conservative candidate for their
county. Old words had lost their meaning,
and none more completely than the verb ' to
rat.' The Conservative was eager to outbid

VOL. I. K

the Whig with promises of useful reforms ;
the Liberal was more prompt than the Tory to
sneer at universal laws of political economy
and fundamental principles of free government.
Each party boasted of their common sense ;
each accused the other of a latent tendency to
Communism. The Liberal party, on account
of the still extant confidence in their Liberalism,
found it easier to interfere efficiently
with personal liberty ; the Conservative, strong
ni their anti-revolutionary reputation, were
bolder to borrow from the Socialists plans of
State interference with the homes of the poor
and the purses of the rich. Liberty and order
rang in the perorations of Liberal orators ;
order and liberty answered from the perorations
of the Tories ; and good simple souls
thought that the good old fight was being
J ought with the zeal and faith of former days,

and that the dust which was thrown in
their eyes concealed the shock of a real
battle. Meanwhile, below this empty clamour,
the flinging of dust and the half-humorous
bandying of personalities, there was audible
sometimes a murmur which seemed more
serious. Now and then a political manager,
a pulse-feeler, a wire-puller, would pause in
his playful arrangements, and wonder what
was coming next, dimly conscious in one
inspired moment that a new force was at
work in this world which it was his mission
to manage, that some day uncomfortable
people might ask for something, which was
neither non-interference with their liberty of
living in pig-styes nor permission to drink in
poisonous water to the glory of the British
Constitution.

In days of doubt and change the eyes of

K 2

less foolish men turn naturally to the young.
What have they learned ? What will they
teach ? How will the best of them face the
difficulties of their time ? These are interesting
questions, and it happened that some
people were asking them at the moment when
John Maidment dawned upon London and
the Palace of Westminster with his Oxford
reputation, his brilliant appearance, his air
of nervous energy, and the fine confidence
in himself which he carried not ungracefully.
What wonder, then, that shrewd and hesitating
elders turned with some curiosity to this
youth, who was said to represent the opinions
of many of his ablest contemporaries, and to
have much influence with them ? They eyed
him as augurs may have eyed a promising
chicken, who bore within him the signs of
the times to come ; they came about him with

courtesy, and with something of the scientific
interest of medical students.

Among others the Earl of Whimley and
Boucherett had been told that he ought to
wish to have a look at the new young man
who was expected by some people to do something.
Lord Whimley as a boy had kept
white mice and rabbits, and he still indulged
in the privacy of his family a liking for 
games and acting in charades ;
but, besides these innocent tastes, his position
and his cousin, Mr. Randall, who was a rising
man, obliged him to display a warm interest
in politics. He was the head of one of the
great political families of the country ; he
had a family mansion in London, where the
wives and daughters of the party assembled
at regular intervals ; his place in the country
was famous not only for many historical

VOL. I. * K 3

associations, but also for its splendour and for
its hospitality to all sorts of interesting people.
So when Mr. Eandall had impressed on Lord
Whimley that he ought to feel an interest in
John Maidment, Lord Whimley with his
grave air of party responsibility remarked to
his wife that there was a young Eadical
Maynard,' whom she had better ask to something.
Lady Whimley, with the broad smile
which was always caused by any exhibition of
solemnity in her husband, asked her daughter
Gertrude if she had met such a young man ;
and Lady Gertrude, after plaintively expressing
her wonder that her parents never could get
a name right, said that they had all met
Mr. Maidment at dinner, added with more
emphasis that he was most interesting, and
finished by deciding that he should be asked
to Boucherett for Easter.

When the day of his visit arrived, John
set off for Boucherett with lively pleasure.
He had blamed himself long ago for having
hesitated even for a moment whether he
should accept this flattering invitation ; he
had told himself with decision that his friends
at Brentholme would have blamed him justly
if for the sake of spending Easter with them
he had lost such a chance of studying the
prominent people of the day in their hours
of less reserve. The fact that Boucherett was
one of the greatest Tory houses made the
invitation more complimentary, and would
make the visit more interesting. John was
thrilled with the idea that the big-wigs of the
other party might think it worth while to
try to pump him, even to try to convert him ;
he hoped with all his heart that they would
try ; he meant to impress them. He left

London for Boucherett with keen curiosity
and a purpose of enjoyment. The train in
which he travelled was full of guests who
were going to the same house : the small
dimly-lighted station seemed no more than
the ante-room to the magnificent place
whither he was bound ; he was amused by
the masses of luggage, the bustle of maids
and men with furs and dressing-cases, the
number and variety of vehicles which had
been sent to meet them ; he liked the feeling
of splendour and of spaciousness. The gates
were vast through which the carriages were
driven ; and in the growing darkness the
park seemed vaster than it was : there was a
lofty portico, and a loftier hall, and the
guests were led through a series of half-lifted
rooms to the long gallery where in a circle
of light by the farther fire-place tea was

waiting for them. Even the solemnity of a
party which has been but just collected could
not depress John. The men were looking at
each other with a suspicious air, on the
defensive, each waiting for the other to
show that he desired a better acquaintance,
dropping brief remarks defiantly. The
women were sipping tea, and some were
probably thinking that tea and travel might
make their noses red at dinner. The
great room and the little light, the low
voices and frequent times of silence, were all
part of a certain dreariness which made an
emotional lady think tenderly of her home,
and made her husband consider with dismay
that he was bound to spend a week in that
majestic place at a time of year when there
was nothing to hunt or shoot.

This same long gallery was lighter when

people assembled before dinner, and the
gleam of shoulders and the glitter of
diamonds made the scene more gay ; but
still there was stiffness, almost sadness. A
party of Englishmen and of Englishwomen
who have been but just collected, knowing
that they are expected to amuse each other
for a week, cannot but feel a certain oppression,
which only dinner can remove.

At last some great doors were softly
opened; Lord Whimley with a muttered joke,
which he had borrowed from an American
paper, offered his arm to the Duchess, and his
guests went two by two through a smaller
room into the great dining-hall. Their feet
fell on thick noiseless carpets ; one could
scarcely hear the faint rustle of a gown
through the murmur of voices. The high
vaulted room was full of soft splendid light.

and of the soft warm scent of flowers and
delicate food. Flowers were in profusion
from end to end of the long, table, and golden
dishes of fruit from the famous Boucherett
houses. As the long procession of diners
found their places, the row of powdered footmen
broke into noiseless activity, and from
a further room came the sound of music.
Encouraged by the music, which was not too
loud, and charmed by the luxurious atmosphere,
people looked more boldly at each
other, and after soup began to talk more
freely. John was delighted ; the atmosphere
was new to him ; he felt great pleasure in the
sumptuousness of life. He had taken in no
lady, and he had time to look about him.
He liked to look down the long table and to
see, beyond gold plate and brilliant flowers,
Avhite necks bending and jewels gleaming,

and in the pauses of the music to hear light
laughter and the tinkling of knives and
forks. As he smiled with pleasure seeming to
breathe his native air, a sudden vision came
to him of the faded chintz and low ceilings
of Brentholme ; life there seemed thin and
chilly ; he was impatient of its Spartan
simplicity. The vision passed in a moment,
and John was aware of nothing but of
delicate odours and sounds, and of gracious
people seen through the impalpable vapour
of good living. A few of these people he
knew by sight, and to a very few he had
spoken ; but of most of them he knew
nothing at all. Only he had a comfortable
certainty that most were important people in
some way, and that he would make himself
pleasant to those whom it was worth while to
please. For the present he scarcely cared to

ask who they were ; it was enough that they
were part of this luxury, which was new to
him and very delightful ; he was content to
accept them vaguely as a rich background of
duchesses.

But if John was content to enjoy his
dinner and say little, his neighbours were by
no means of the same mind. He sat between
old Sir Ludovick EafFerty and Lady Charming,
and both were inclined, as usual, to talk. Sir
Ludovick, though according to the common
notion of success he had been singularly
unsuccessful in life, was very clever, almost as
clever as he looked. His eyes, which were
very near to his long fleshy nose, twinkled as
brightly as a boy's. He spoke much less
from the throat than most Englishmen, and
the marked movement of his lips, which he
moistened often with the tip of his tongue.

contributed to this air of an old comedian
He had the face of a Parisian actor of farce
and the head of a great philosopher. His
imagination was only weaker than his logical
faculty, and he had a great collection of
stories, of which many were indecent but all
were comical. If some of these tales were rather
hard on his friends, it was not due to malice
but only to the subjection of friendship, as
of everything else, to his intense delight in
his own humour. Sir Ludovick Easterly had
hardly turned one twinkling eye on John
Maidment before he was sure that he was
next to an intelligent listener. As he very
soon found out that his young neighbour was
a new-comer in the social world, he favoured
him at intervals during dinner with brief
notes on the people present.

John was delighted to listen, gaining

instruction with amusement. He reserved to
himself the right of disapproving of his informant;
he had a suspicion that he was not a
good old man ; but for the moment he abandoned
himself to the enjoyment of Sir Ludo-vice's
gossip as to the other novel luxuries.
Already there was somebody about whom he
particularly wished for information ; again and
again, as he glanced about him, he had met
the quiet gaze of two round brown eyes,
which regarded him with a fixed contemplative
look, and rather melancholy. Though
the lady's eyes were large and pathetic, she
seemed to the energetic youth neither young
nor pretty ; even at that distance and in that
becoming Hight she looked tired, freckled,
dark, and faded, a little puffy under the large
eyes ; she had drawn round her shoulders a
light shawl, as if even in that soft atmosphere

she felt chilly. But John read interest in her
level musing gaze — interest in him ; and it
was this which attracted his eyes again and
again to the dull pathetic orbs of the chilly
lady. It was not long before Sir Ludovick in
one of the intervals of his dinner, which he
enjoyed thoroughly, discovered the direction
of the young man's glances.

Do you know her ? ' he asked suddenly ;
do you know Mrs. Lulham ? '

He licked his lips and nodded to where
the lady sat, a little lower down on the other
side of the table.

No,' said John, and looked expectant.

I could tell you a story,' began the old
gentleman, with his philosophic head on one
side like a magpie's.

Don't listen to him,' said the lively and
good-natured Lady Charmian. ' Lud is a

very wicked old man, and tells stories about
everybody.'

Sir Ludovick pointed a sharpened finger-nail
at her.

I can tell you one about her,' he said.

Good gracious ! ' cried the lady. ' Stop
your ears, Mr. Maidment;' but she laughed
aloud as she spoke. ' Susan Lulham is perfectly
charming,' she said — ' dreadfully clever,
but quite charming. We'll make her sing
this evening.'

She has a voice like a consumptive
mouse,' whispered Sir Ludovick hoarsely.
Lady Charmian ignored this uncomplimentary
comparison.

There's something about her singing,' she
said with enthusiasm, ' that you don't get in
the singing of the very best professionals.'

VOL. I. L

Yes — wrong notes,' said Sir Ludovick, and
he chuckled.

Oh, you wicked, wicked old man ! ' cried
Lady Charmian, beaming with amusement.
You must never believe Lud,' she said to
John ; ' and you must admire Susan Fulham.
She is awfully interesting ; she is a
spiritualist and all sorts of things ; she has
the oddest experiences.'

Is she a medium ? ' asked Holm.

She is not the happy medium,' said Sir
Ludovick, and licked his lips ; and John
laughed, for indeed the lady's eyes were turned
upon him with a most melancholy interest.
But though Mr. Maidment could not help
laughing at this very comical old man, he reminded
himself, even while he laughed, that
it was in this way that frivolous people spoke
of their superiors ; that Sir Ludovick and the

laughing Lady Cliarmian with her white
teeth were ahiiost incredibly frivolous. He
looked at Mrs. Lulham with an interest
which began to respond to her own ; he
thought it likely that she was really accomplished
; he felt almost sure that she had a
fine taste.

L2

CHAPTEE X.

When with a great moving of chairs and
rusting of fine raiment, some courteous hesitations
and deprecating bending of fair necks,
the troop of ladies had sailed out of the great
dining-room. Sir Ludovick drew his chair
closer to John's, and, with his twinkling old
face close to his attentive ear, favoured him
with a few notes on the family who were
entertaining them so royally.

"Willy Whimley is a dear fellow,' he said ;
I have known him since he was the height of
this decanter — drink this claret before the
boys begin to smoke ; it is good — he is a dear

fellow, but a very light weight. Look at him
trying to look substantial ; he knows that
Eandall has his eye on him and expects him
to look solid ; he only looks apologetic.
Whimley is always silently apologising for
being an earl, and for being able to buy us all
up. He could buy me cheap. Do you know
his wife well ? No ? She's charming ; she's
the laziest woman in England ; she laughs and
grows fat, and it is her husband she laughs at.
Their boy is sensible, sensible as a cabbage ;
he is going round the world — everybody goes
round the world nowadays — to improve his
mind ; he is getting up the dead meat question
; he will write about it, when he gets
back, in the new Review. Lady Gertrude is
worth ten of him ; she is a fine creature.'

He seemed to draw the lady in the air with
his long-fingered old hand.

She is very handsome,' said John.

'But she is too moral,' said Ludovick
regretfully. ' I feel as if she were always
picturing my death-bed repentance.'

He chuckled, much delighted with this
fancy.

Ah ! ' he said in a moment ; ' that villain
Algy has lit a cigarette ; I can drink no more.
You young men are selfish ; you don't drink,
and you won't let others drink : you have the
blood of fish without their imbibing power.
Do you know Algy Garner? He is very
modern, very rude ; he plays without grace
and races without enjoyment. How he glares
at his cigarette ! Something has disagreed
with him. He is very hard hit, and he hopes
to marry his cousin.'

Lady Gertrude ? ' asked John, with an
interest which surprised himself.

•^She will have a fine dot,' said Sir
Ludovick with three nods. ' The young man
is in a tight place ; he bets heavily ; he gets
the very best information ; no wonder he's
ruined.'

And will she marry him ? ' asked John,
feeling a quick rush of his old indignation
against his schoolfellow.

Sir Ludovick raised his shoulders, and
looked more than ever like an inspired
Punch.

All my life,' he said, ' I have been studying
women, and I have arrived at one conclusion,
which I will give you for your
guidance. Never be sure that a woman will
say the unreasonable thing ; never be sure
that she Avill do the practical thing ; she is
capable of anything to disappoint you.'

Thank you very much,' said John, with a

smile, which he forced. For some reason he
had lost his taste for this old man's pleasantries
; that disapproval of him which he
had kept in reserve seemed to be coming up
with a rush.

'There are many aspirants,' said Sir
Ludovick in a confidential whisper; 'there
is another over there — the man with the fat
eyes and sleek beard, next to the Duke — when
there is a duke, Smithers Plumley is always
next to him. Smithers has the best cook in
London, and the worst heart; he is very
rich, and is said to be very good-natured ; he
has the worst male tongue in London. I am
talking of you, Smithers, and giving you a
funny character.'

Mr. Plumley's eyes vanished as he laughed
and nodded ; he was afraid of old Sir
Ludovick.

Then there is Eandall,' said Sir Ludovick,
turning again to John. ' Many think that he
will be the lucky man; he pretends to consult
Lady Gertrude on political affairs ; she is
enormously flattered. Eandall is very deep.
He began his political career by printing
a brilliant satire and making a humorous
speech about bishops ; he made people laugh ;
it was almost fatal to him. But he saw his
error. For years he has been uttering dull
excellent speeches, looking wise and quoting
statistics ; he is the most rising Conservative
of his age ; he has a solid reputation for
statesmanship and success. He dare not risk
his reputation for success ; he will never ask
our fair friend till he is sure she will take
him.'

Our fair friend' had not been happy in the
drawing-room while the old friend of the family

had been sketching her suitors over his claret.
She was annoyed by the Duchess, who indeed
had a gift of irritation. This great lady had
a face which betrayed no emotion, and this
was naturally exasperating to an impulsive
girl, who showed every feeling as it passed.
She was often called ' the handsome Duchess,'
and she certainly had an imposing appearance,
of which much was due to a high nose,
painted eyebrows, thin lips, and the very
latest Parisian wig. If she condemned her
neighbours, she seemed to pronounce sentence
on them from a sense of duty — to have
detected with her fine nose an odour dangerous
to the society of which she was the
only genuine guardian. She was an admirable
figure-head to a high-class vessel. With this
remarkable woman Lady Gertrude was angry.
She had heard her say something disagreeable

about her cousin Algy. As she herself had
but just been quarrelling with him, she of
course defended him with the more warmth ;
her warmth had raised a smile on other
female faces, and now there was no repose
for her until she had made her cousin suffer
too.

As soon as Algy came in with the other
men, he looked at her and saw that she was
uneasy. She moved this way and that on her
sofa ; she was flushed, and fanned herself with
unnecessary vigour ; she would not summon
him with a look, but she meant him to come
to her. He came slowly, and stood looking
down at her.

What is it ? ' he asked presently.

She's an odious, vulgar woman,' said Lady
Gertrude with a glance at the most refined of
duchesses.

Algy Garner turned his light eyes on the
Duchess, as if he thought of wringing her long
neck.

I wish women would keep their tongues
quiet,' he said.

I don't know why you say " women," '
she said in an aggrieved tone ; and, as he
showed no sign of explaining his speech, ' Of
course,' she continued, ' if you mean to class
me with the most scandalous and malicious
woman in England — Oh, you can't go beyond
that ! — you are very kind, I'm sure.'

'I never said a word about classing you
with anybody,' he said ; and he began to bite
his under lip.

'I am sure I don't want to abuse the
Duchess ; ' and as she went on she grew more
and more plaintive and more and more emphatic.
' Why should / want to abuse her ?

What harm can she do me ? I shouldn't have
thought that you would like to be called a
blacken '

'What?'

The question came like a growl.

Oh, of course she didn't say so in so
many words ; she said you were ruined again,
and that you couldn't pay your debts, and that
you had no business to be going about as if
you had a pocket full of money, and — ah ! '

She seemed to be stopped by sheer disgust,
as she twisted her fine shoulders impatiently
and began to fan herself more
vehemently than ever.

What business is it of hers ? ' said Algy ;
and he looked at the Duchess again as if he
were on the very point of twisting her finely-dressed
head off. Then he seated himself by
the side of his cousin, who sat the straighter on

the sofa, and said, ' It's true, you know ; I told
you. I am in a bad place — I told you ; I told
you that I must have 500/., and I asked you
to get it from my uncle.'

And you want me to ask my father for
it,' she said, plaintive still, but more kind.

I shan't get it if you don't,' he said with
a short laugh.

The tribute to her power led her yet
further back on the way to amiability. He
was looking fixedly at her, and she passed
from the thought of her power with her
father to the thought of her power with this
untamed young man ; she was proud of
managing him ; she found herself smiling before
she intended. Smiling and still flushed
with her late emotions she looked splendidly
beautiful. He said to himself again that he
did not care a bit (even to himself he used a

stronger monosyllable) for racing or gambling,
that they might all go to blazes if his beautiful
cousin would take him — and take him
she should. As for the horses, grooms, carts,
theatre stalls, dressing cases, and the thousand
and one luxuries which grew on him like
barnacles, he was ready to curse these encumbrances
on young activity. Disgust of these
clogging nothings had sent him into the
desert before now or to sleep in a torn blanket
among the rocks of the Eocky Mountains ;
and perhaps the truest pleasure which he had
yet enjoyed was the sense of his strength
after roughing it with the roughest. Since
hunting had stopped, Algy Garner was more
than ever sure that there was only one thing
in life worth getting, and that was his cousin
Gertrude. He was so lost in regarding her
that he had almost forgotten his unbent need

of the money, when she said, ' Of course I will
get it for you

She spoke with a pout, in which vanished
the last element of her grievance ; and, being
now in a comfortable mood, she began to
sink into a familiar strain of confidential
lecturing of this reckless young man, while
he sat staring and pulling his moustache.
She was expressing once again her wonder
why he was so absurdly extravagant, and
what pleasure he could possibly find in grieving
his best friends, when he suddenly got up
and left her. He thought he saw that, while
she talked to him, she was looking at John
Maidment ; this made him angry, and he was
more angry when John instantly crossed the
room and took the place which he had left.
John was still enchanted with the atmosphere
of luxury, the length of the brilliantly lighted

gallery, the deep recesses of the windows full
of more grateful shadow. The matter-of-course
magnificence was new to him, and it
seemed to him that the centre of it all, the
jeAvel in the casket of gold, was the daughter
of the house. Lady Gertrude on her side
lead openly proclaimed her warm interest
in this new young man. All her interests
were warm ; her heart was warm ; if her
temper was sometimes hot, she was generous
with her admiration. Not only were her geese
swans, but her swans were the very largest
and whitest birds that ever curved their
necks with pride. John began to talk with
brightness and candour of his first experience
of political people and his first impressions of
society ; and she listened and began to beam,
and to refresh herself with the conviction
til at she had made a friend who was (to use

VOL. I. M' •

a favourite expression of her own) ' not just
like everybody else.' She was sorry when
their talk was interrupted ; but she was a
most conscientious hostess, and in presence
of her mother's unruffled laziness she felt the
full responsibility for everybody present.

Hush ! ' she said ; ' Mrs. Lulham is going
to sing. We must go nearer to the piano ; it's
wonderful, but not very strong.'

It was not very strong. Those who were
fond of music drew nearer and nearer to the
piano, as the lady began to sing. She murmured
over the keys very pathetically ; in spite
of Sir Ludovick's harsh judgment she was
almost exactly correct ; she sang with a world
of meaning. It was supremely melancholy,
and it was immensely admired. John standing
close to the end of the piano could not avoid
the singer's eyes, sorrowful, inscrutable. They

made him nervous, and yet he liked the dumb
pathetic interest with which they gazed on
him. Lady Charmian, who had professed so
much admiration for Mrs. Lulham's singing,
had gilded away to the furthest end of the
long gallery, that she might listen to Sir
Ludovick, who crisply stated that the best
part of the performance was that it was inaudible
at two yards from the instrument.
But though there where many who preferred
conversation, there were many too who
pressed the sweet singer to sing again and
again.

So when the woful German song was
done, she sang a little Tuscan verse scented
with death and love, and then a Spanish serenade
in which passion seemed all pain, and
at last an English merry-making air, which
was most melancholy of all. Lady Charrnian

M 2

came back in time to press the singer's hands,
and to say with real conviction that there was
no such singing in the world.

Dear Del ! ' said Mrs. Lulham for answer
very sadly and sweetly, and with her large
dull eyes still fixed on John Maidment.
She was very unconventional, and did not
wait for ceremonious introductions. As her
admirers fell away from the piano she came
to John. ' I feel as if I had known you in a
former state,' she said gravely in a low voice.

The young man was startled, but he did
not lose his charm of manner. He looked
very wide-awake in contrast with the lady's
weak dreaminess ; and yet he found himself
presently without any purpose of his own
seated by Mrs. Lulham in a secluded window-seat.


I have not seen you before in this world,'

she said, still gazing at him with a quiet
interest.

Not in this world,' answered John,
nodding to the people who filled the gallery ;
I am a new-comer — a raw Oxonian.' He
smiled, but she did not.

And I am a rare comer,' she said. ' I
live in Naples ; I am always ill in Naples ; I
have no lungs ; I live by will. They tell me
to live. Who do I mean by they.^ Ah! —
You are different. They tell me that you are
different. I should like to live to see your
future. You are very interesting. Let me
read your hand.'

No sooner had Mrs. Lulham risen from
the music-stool than Lady Charmian seated
herself briskly at the piano, and dashed
impulsively into a waltz tune. She was
always eager to please somebody, and on the

look-out for ' a bit of fun.' ' A bit of fun '
were the words most often on her smiling
lips.

At the sound of dance music the daughter
of the house, flushed and radiant, turned to a
group of the younger men, and appealed to
them not without a tone of authority. The
more energetic responded, and pushed some
of the furniture out of the way, and in a
minute a few active couples were whirling
down the long gallery. Delia Charmian
laughed aloud and quickened the pace, as
Lady Gertrude swept into the dance a
light but resolute diplomatist. Lady Gertrude
was in the highest spirits, but in
another moment she felt a pang of annoyance.
As she swept by one of the windows, she saw
in the shaded seat 'Mrs. Lulham and John
Maidment ; and she saw too that the lady

was holding lier companion's hand with her
tiny yellow fingers and was gazing gravely
on the palm.

A Httle withered monkey ! ' said Lady
Gertrude to herself, as she stood panting at
the end of the long gallery, and she began to
beat the floor with her foot impatiently.

When Delia Charmian started ' a bit of
fun ' it seemed as if it would never end.
Having set the dancing going at Boucherett,
she very soon gave up her place at the piano
to her daughter, who looked no younger than
she by candlelight and danced less lightly,
and the party became so gay that it was long
before the men were left alone. John would
have gladly gone to bed, but as all the
younger men prepared to smoke, he did not
like to be exceptional on this first evening.
So he too repaired to that sumptuous Oriental

apartment which Lord Whimley had furnished
after the successful journey in the
Levant, of which he had printed an account
in one elegant octavo volume for private
circulation only.

Very sumptuous was this Eastern chamber,
and rich with warm shaded lights. Against
the walls were deep low divans, and above
the divans trophies of Damascus blades and
Arab guns, curious brasses and tasselled
pipes. The floor was tiled like the walls of
the mosque of Omar, and thick rich rugs lay
on it, and in the middle was a shallow tank
where a fountain could be made to play.
There were small round tables, each a fine
specimen of inlaid work, and the open-work
shutters were as the windows of an Egyptian
harem. It was very complete. John liked
it, though he cared little for smoking. He

sat in a corner with a cigarette in his mouth,
and listened with indifference to the scraps of
talk which fell from the lips around him in
their moments of leisure.

Smith hers Plumley was the chief speaker.
He sat on the soft divan as if he had been
made for it ; he had crossed his fat legs like
a Turk ; he was sleek as the favourite cat of
the Shah of Persia, and seemed to overflow
with loving-kindness. Nevertheless, his words
were not agreeable to Mr. Garner, on whom
he was smiling most sweetly.

He says that of course you ride hard, but
with no judgment.'

That's your opinion, is it ? ' said Algy
Garner, chucking the end of his cigar into the
fire rather viciously.

My opinion ! My dear chap, you know
I only know a horse from a cow because he

hasn't got horns. I believe that a horse
never has horns. Why do you laugh ? Does
he ever have horns? I shall be still more
afraid of him if I find he can gore me.'

Plumley was clearly in the vein. His comfort
was much increased by the absence of
old Sir Ludovick, before whose wit the wit
of this little fat gentleman kept timidly at
home. As his audience laughed at his views
of the horse, he smiled on the comfortable
world till his eyes were scarcely visible.

Does he think that he can ride ? ' asked
Garner with low voiced scorn.

I rather think he does,' said the other,
beaming round on the circle with larcre
friendliness ; ' I thought that it was generally
agreed that Eegy was a fine horseman.' One
man nodded, another grunted assent, but
Algy said nothing. ' Don't suppose, dear

chap, that Eegy was rubbing you,' said
Smithers generously ; ' he only said that
you were a trifle hard on your horses, and
that some mare of which you think a great
deal '

'Molly? What of her?'

Not much of her,' said Mr. Plumley
beaming ; ' he said that you had knocked
her to pieces.'

He lied,' said Mr. Garner curtly.

Oh, I only tell you what he said : he said
it was a pity to ruin such a good beast.'

The little gentleman spoke with invincible
good humour.

She never was more fit in her life,' said

Algy.

Eegy is generally considered a good
judge,' said Smithers Plumley softly, rolling
for himself another cigarette.

You may tell your friend Eegy,' said Algy
Garner, ' that I will ride Molly against any
brute in this stable over any course lie likes.'

Oil, my dear clap ! ' cried the other,
looking round as if he would appeal to everybody
to prevent such madness.

'I only make one condition,' continued
Garner — ' that he will ride his own horse.'

Smithers regarded him with a smile,
which looked kind but was undeniably provoking.
' Don't do it,' he said, shaking his
sleek head ; and then, as Algy said nothing,
he added in a minute, ' Not that it would
do any harm to make your offer ! You don't
catch Eegy making a match for love.'

Algy bit his cigar hard and kept his
mouth shut ; and it is possible that no more
would have been said had not a simple youth
uplifted from a corner a voice which had

hardly ceased cracking. This boy was strikingly
suggestive of heavy losses on the turf.
His smoking-clothes were redolent of superfluous
money ; his long thin legs looked
meaningless until the spectator thought of
horses ; his pink innocent face was a standing
invitation to the crafty. This youth, whom
Nature had formed in a playful mood to drop
gold on racecourses, spoke from his corner
with a fine knowing air and said —

Algy don't do much either unless the
money's on.'

You amaze me,' said Smith hers Plumley,
beaming on the boy. ' I thought that Algy
was reformed — or broke — or something. He
has promised to be a good boy, and never,
never, never to bet any more.' Here he
looked attain at Mr. Garner and wafyored his
head playfully at him.

'I'll back myself for eve hundred,' said
Algy, who looked dangerously white.

'Oh, you bad boy! Stop him, somebody!'


You need not be afraid for your friend,'
said Algy venomously : ' I happen to have
the money, or shall have it tomorrow ; I'll
put it in your hands, if you like.' With a
look of undisguised distaste at Mr. Plumley's
hands, which were dimpled like a baby's, he
chucked the end of his cigar into the fireplace
and went out.

CHAPTER XI.

The first day of the Boucherett party was
pronounced by Lady Gertrude to be little
better than a failure. She had planned an
expedition to the ruin, which all visitors were
bound to see ; and since she was never content
with making a plan but must settle all
the details too, and since no people either can
or will do exactly what they are meant to doit
was no uncommon declaration of Lady
Gertrude that nothing ever went right. The
truth is that the plans of this magnificent
young lady suffered from over-elaboration,
and that many people were sick of her expeditions

or entertainments before they began.
So on this occasion some of the guests had
begged not to be taken ; others had asked to
QO in the wrong carriage ; and Sir Ludovick
had been most annoying of all, for he had
talked of nothing but the picnic, and ' picnic '
was a word which always displeased her.
She coidd not bear to think of herself as
setting up picnics. Nor had her parents contented
her. She liked them to leave all
arrangements to her, but to seem not to leave
them ; and it was aggravating that her mother
would sit in her favourite chair smiling and
showing in every curve how much better it
was to repose than to go flying about the
country in a string of vehicles. As for the
Earl of Whimley and Boucherett, that influential
person had waited in the obscurity of his
farther mushroom-house until the coast was

clear and he might sip back in safety to his
turning-lathe — and so he had played his part
not at all to the satisfaction of his daiio^hter,
who suspected his hiding-place and could not
smile at the mental picture. So Lady Gertrude's
day had begun with vexation, and she
had fretted and sighed, and had found her
only consolation in condemning herself to the
most disagreeable place in the carriage which
she most disliked. She had seated herself by
the side of the Duchess in the barouche, and
lead bidden Smithers Plumley, who had a taste
for duchesses, to amuse them from the opposite
seat.

Smithers Flummery had much tact, and quick
sympathy with feminine moods. As the carriage
rolled solemnly along the country road,
he devoted himself to the amusement of the
Duchess ; while Lady Gertrude, under the sooth-vol.

I. K

ing influence of silence and smooth motion,
recovered a fair amount of placidity. Smithers
was just scandalous and malicious enough to
amuse the Duchess without offending the
young lady, while his appearance of gaiety
and good-living seemed to vouch for his essential
good-nature. It was almost impossible
to think that this well-fed jolly gentleman
ever intended to hurt anybody. The Duchess
was so well amused that she almost forgot
to make the one or two ill-natured speeches
which she had thought of in bed as likely to
wound the daughter of the house ; and the
party had almost reached their destination
before she brought the little speeches out. and
then rather verily. They referred to Algy
Garner, and were addressed to Mr. Plumley ;
and, though the Duchess could extract nothing
but deprecating looks from that cautious

gentleman, she had the satisfaction of feeling
Lady Gertrude leap in her place and turn
sharply away.

Then, when they had arrived at their
ruins and had left their carriage, Mr.
Plumley seized his opportunity and showed
^viih the utmost delicacy how little he
sympathised with the Duchess's tone about
Algy Garner. He was so sorry for Algy,
who was such a nice fellow ; he seemed to
take for granted her cousinly interest in the
reckless young man ; he regretted deeply
his perversity in getting into scrapes ; and,
softly following this train of thought, he
let slip something of Algy's bet in the
smoking-room on the night just past. Lady
Gertrude with sudden passion demanded
details, and Ashen she heard the amount she
was hurt and angry indeed. The very sum

N 2

which she was to get for him he was pledged
to throat away before he held it. He was
incurable ; he was one of her failures. Life
was full of failures, and this miserable
picnic was another of them. Even the
excellent luncheon and the contentment of
her guests, the trees all powdered with fresh
green of the spring, the calm of the distant
river, the delicate grass below and the
feathery white clouds high up in the blue —
even all these good things failed to soothe
the troubled spirit of Lady Gertrude Book-ham.
Trifles irritated her. She was annoyed
by the Duchess's method of sliding food between
her tiny scarcely-parted lips ; she was
annoyed by the hearty laughter of Lady Char-man,
who laughed till she cried at nothing.
She was even annoyed by the attentions of
Mr. Eandall, in whose talk she generally

felt sure of being interested. Now she
tacitly accused him of heaviness, and her
plenteous generosity and hospitality were
offended by his rigid abstinence. Mr. Randall
had a tendency to fat, against which
he seemed to be ever contending. He
walked with excessive vigour and determination,
and there was a perceptible strain
on the buttons of all his coats. At this
luncheon in the open air, which was not to
be a picnic, he offended the lady whom he
was anxious to please by a cold-blooded
refusal of the choicest viands. She Alas
vexed with him and showed it ; and she
said to herself, not for the first time, that
he looked too like a vigorous and trustworthy
railway guard. Though there is no type
more likely to gain the confidence of the
intelligent public. Lady Gertrude held that

it was inconsistent with the higher statesmanship.
She, like almost all his friends, had
forgotten those early flashes of indiscretion
which the ambitious politician had been
teaching the nation to forget. Everything
went wrong ; nobody behaved as he or
she ought. Luncheon was half over when
Mrs. Lulham came strolling from the neighbouring
grove with John Maidment by her
side.

The luncheon is nearly finished,' said
Lady Gertrude in her aggrieved tone.

I never eat,' said Mrs. Lulham quietly.

John looked at Lady Gertrude, but she
ignored his looks. He had come from the
wood with his heart full of pleasure ; he had
been conversing with one whom he found
the cleverest of women ; he was flushed with
the most delicate flatteries.

Perhaps Lady Gertrude saw in him some
trace of a vanquishing air. When he spoke
to her with a happy friendliness, she answered
shortly, and, as she turned to Mr. Eandall
with a string of unimportant questions, lie
moved just so far that John Maidment could
find no place by her side. John felt himself
snubbed, and was very angry. As he stood
irresolute, he caught the twinkling eye of
Smithers Plumley and was more angry.
Lady Gertrude's manner was like a shower-bath
to his sensitive nerves : he hated it, and
he hated her for the moment. This was that
aristocratic insolence of which he had heard ;
these were the manners of the barbarian
class. On the way home his thoughts ran the
same way. He told himself that he had
enjoyed a most useful experience ; but he
did not enjoy it much. He told himself that

he was following a most useful train of
thought. It is only centuries of insolence, he
thought, which could produce this perfect
flower. This girl treated him like an inferior
being ; he would like to show her which was
the better, he or she. He would show her
some day. Changes were coming, and coming
quickly ; and these people were too dull to
see them. This excessive and enervating
luxury was founded on the possession of land
by the few ; that at least was doomed, and
with it would vanish this hereditary insolence
of a landed class. What was this girl that
she should think herself better than he ?
Hoar absurd that she should think herself his
equal I She would know better some day.
Even he, whom she fancied she could snub
with impunity, would be compelled to lend a
hand to the destruction of that old state of

tidings which alone made possible the existence
of such an arrogant maiden.

It was not long before John Maidment had
recovered his amiability. He passed from indignation
to pity. If Lady Gertrude knew as
much as he knew, she would be more careful
how she treated him. They were all stupid,
these people who fancied that the world was
made for them. The world was made for him
who knew how to make the world. John
came down to dinner, feeling that the fate of
thirty or forty guests collected in the stately
house of Boucherett was in his hands. If
they did not make him their friend, it would
be the worse for them. He went in to dinner,
unruffled and with self-respect restored ; and
the ceremony of dinner, with its easy splendour
and its distant music, soothed him more
and more, until again he took a genial, if

somewhat contemptuous, view of the worthy
folk around him. Let them have their hour,
he thought, and I — I too will enjoy it.

Later in the same evening, when Mrs.
Lulham had uttered her faint expressive notes
and some were playing cards and some were
talking, John wandered into a room which
opened out of the gallery, and saw before him
the entrance to an inner shrine wherefrom
a richer light was pouring. Across the
entrance a heavy curtain was half drawn, and
with the lio^ht and fragrance of hot-house
flowers the sound of a voice came also. Lady
Gertrude was speaking, and speaking in her
most plaintive tone ; but suddenly the even
flow of her complaint was checked, and
checked most rudely.

And this is why,' said the voice of Mr.
Garner, full of compressed fierceness — ' this

IS why you've kept me hanging about you

like an infernal Ah ! I'm sick of it ; I'm

sick of getting nothing but sermons.'

There was a pause before the word
sermons,' in which John imagined a strong
epithet swallowed with difficulty. He had
not time to move before Garner came out,
and passing him without a word or sign went
through a side door, which he left shaking
behind him. John turned to go back to the
gallery, but stopped. He felt a strong impulse
to look at the girL He remembered
that she had snubbed him ; he would like to
see if she would snub him again ; he was not
afraid of her ; he should see at a glance if he
were intruding, and could retire in a moment.
In a moment he had passed the curtain and
was in the room.

The Duchess was fond of saying that Lady

Gertrude did not know low to dress herself,
and that she wore clothes which were not
suitable for a girl. It is certain that this girl
loved sumptuous raiment and to adorn herself
with jewels. In the soft light of the little
room, she herself was rich and lustrous as a
jewel in a shrine. There was a flush on her
cheek, and her dark eyes were soft and
pleading. There was a sparkle of gems at her
round white throat, and of tears on her long
lashes. As she looked up from the low couch
and saw John in the doorway, the flush
deepened and she drew her hand indignant
across her eyes. The young man moved as if
he meant to go.

Don't go,' she said quickly.

He came in, and sank down on the
seat by her side. He seemed to taste the
fragrance of a splendid tropical flower. He

had drunk more wine, and richer, than he
had known in his ascetic boyhood ; he had
yield himself to the enjoyment of languishing
music ; he was in a mood for most delicate
delight. After a silence of a few minutes,
she spoke again with lips which were still
tremulous.

You mustn't think,' she said — ' I don't
want you to think for a moment — It's
nothing, nothing at all. I am very much
annoyed ; that's all. He's my cousin, and one
of my oldest friends. You won't think that,
because I am such a fool as to cry — will
you?'

It was perhaps a little incoherent, but
John understood her and knew that he could
answer better by looks than by speech. As
she turned impulsively to him with her
final question, her beautiful arm touched him,

and thrilled him with a new feeling. All her
pride seemed to have gone. Her great eyes,
yet dim with tears, seemed to ask his sympathy.
His voice sounded to himself low and
eloquent as he assured her that he understood
her meanings.

o

I can't think how a man can be so silly,'
she said ; and he waited to hear more. ' Just
fancy I ' she said with increasing emphasis.
Can you imagine such a thing ? He borrowed
some money to pay bills, which ought
to have been paid long ago, and went
directly — directly — and put it all on some
horse.'

Her voice rose gradually from a low tone
of regret to high complaint. John felt a
quick increase of interest.

Who told you about his backing the
horse? ' he asked.

Mr. Plumley told me. He was very
sorry about it. He is so funny that one does
not expect him to feel things ; but even he
was sorry about that.'

It was five hundred pounds ? '

'Yes.'

It was Plumley who made him do it,'
cried John with sudden anger. For the
moment he was possessed wholly by a quick
rush of virtuous indignation ; there was no
room in him for anything but measureless
disgust at the mean conduct of this unctuous
Plumley ; his voice quivered with emotion ashe
told her of the talk in the smoking-room.
As he spoke, he saw how good it was to open
the girl's eyes to the character of this wealthy
admirer, who with dishonesty had been
opening her eyes to the weakness of another.
It was not right that this splendid being

should marry either of these men ; she was as
much too good for a sly millionaire as for an
ill-tempered spendthrift. He would save her
from both these rivals ; it was his clear duty ;
it was absorbing ; it was politic. Lady
Gertrude's eyes were fixed upon his face,
which glowed with righteous indignation.
She admired him and his right anger ; she
interrupted him with exclamations of horror ;
when he had finished she thanked him
warmly.

I always knew of course that he was
horrid,' she said, ' and sly, and scandalous ;
but I did not think that any man could be
so mean. It's like a woman.'

Don't say that,' said John softly ; ' I
have such a high ideal of woman.'

I sometimes think that one is a fool
to have any ideals. This is too shocking.

That there should be two men staying herein
this house, two gentlemen and friends
of ours, and that one should be so pitifully
weak and the other so wicked ! ' Her
voice was full of sharp complaint, but it
sank again to its deep pathetic tone. ' How
can one have any ideals ? ' she asked.

We must not give up high aims because
others are unworthy,' said John softly,
and he found a pleasure in the use of the
word ' We '

There Alas a pause, and then she said
with a smile beginning to come, ' How
strange that I should discuss these things
with you ! '

It's very pleasant for me ; I feel as if
you treated me as a friend.'

That's what I like,' she said with intense
conviction ; ' I like to make friends.'

VOL. I.

If you will tell me anything at anytime,
and if I can ever do anything for
you — — ' He stopped, and looked at her with
devotion. Her dark eyes fell before his, and
she did not speak for a minute. ' Can't we
shake hands on our friendship ? ' he said
with an awkward laugh ; and he raised her
soft warm hand in his.

CHAPTEE XII.

When John Maidment and Lady Gertrude
had shaken hands on their friendship,
they began to moralise. Lady Gertrude
was very fond of moralising. They discussed
the high aims of life ; they found
many points of sympathy. Indeed, though
Lady Gertrude would have been offended
by any doubt of her complete Toryism,
which was a matter of course in a member
of her family, her warm heart was often
aglow with some scheme as revolutionary
as philanthropic. She was not rigidly, prosaically
consistent. She was almost as full



as John of the desire to help her fellow -
creatures, and she had made many more
practical endeavours to help them. It must
be confessed that she was charitable uncomfortably,
fretting and sighing, but
generous withal. When an old man in the
village broke his leg, she took it as a personal
grievance. She expected a great deal
from her poor friends, though she was
given to declare with vehemence that she
expected nothing from so bad a world.
When people disappointed her, she was
fretful over their shortcomings. If they told
her rudely that she herself was not perfect, she
was in a hurry to confess it. She confessed
with emphasis and passion, and always felt
the better for her confession. She thought of
herself as distinguished by high ideals and
of course falling short. Alius she soothed

her conscience ; and she soothed it, too, by
being fretful over her neighbours' offences,
by deploring the wickedness of an idle
world, which she had no wish to abjure.
She felt a warm interest in John ; as she satin
that quiet corner and listened to his facile
speech, she declared to herself again that
she had never met so interesting a young
man. Her generous admiration led him
easily from the discussion of general propositions
about life to the more absorbing
subject, himself. But, though he felt the
temptation to be most eloquent on himself
and on his hopes of the future, he restrained
the topic within due bounds, and so pleased
her the more. He did not talk too much
about himself; he spoke more and with
finer feeling about those who had come
nearest to him in life.

It seemed to the girl, as she listened, that
he had lived in a romantic air. This delighted
her, and made her look at him with quickly
growing interest ; for she had said to herself a
thousand times that in modern life there was
no romance. She had seen her friends make
excellent marriages with men for whom they
did not care a jot, and she had sniffed scornfully
at their easy acquiescence and the cheap
sentimentalism of the mothers who had
arranged the affairs. She had fretted over
the commercial maxims of young men, the
routine of laborious amusement, the inadequacy
of prosaic life. Now, as she listened to
this brilliant and eloquent youth, she thought
that he had been born and bred in a world
where everybody was exceptional. She ens
oy ed a vision of his wild and graceful father,
who had exchanged a brilliant society, where

none shone with such lustre, for the pure
exciting air, the free life, and the silver dreams
of Colorado. Any day he might strike his
pickaxe on the sterile ground, and be richer
than the Caliph of Bagdad or Croesus king
of Lydia. Born in a family where wealth
was a matter of course, Lady Gertrude
thought that she despised money; but silver
asleep in the mountain till the prospecting
prince should come made her eyes brighter
and her red lips open in wonder. And there
where other figures, too, who made a most
heroic appearance in John's tale. This huge
and simple guardian, of whom the young man
spoke with an engaging mixture of patronage
and tenderness, seemed to the girl like a
gigantic Norseman, with eyes like wintry blue
and beard like the yellow corn. She could
imagine the grand simple faith of such an one

in this brilliant youth, whom it was his
privilege to start in life. And as John spoke
of the friend who had been his comrade at
school and in holidays, the girl began to
think of Jonathan and David, of the greatness
and beauty of friendship. She was under a
charm. Why, she asked herself, should nota
woman be a man's friend, and the best of
all possible friends? John said nothing of
Letty, who had been his good friend too.

John talked charmingly, and found the
richest pleasure in telling to this lovely
lady in this sumptuous place. The place
and the hour, the easy winning of a friend
so rare, the delightful confidence, the glow
of a new life affected him like wine. His
words came warm to his lips, and only
stammered Ashen his eyes met hers. The
girl was delighted. Had she not suddenly

remembered the cold glances of the Duchess,
she might have sat in a corner with this
picturesque talker so long that her cool
judgment would have disapproved.

John, before he slept that night, allowed
himself to play with the pretty notion that
perhaps after all a state of society, which
was to be on its trial, would find its best
excuse in that it made possible a splendid
flower of girlhood.

John slept well, and woke to wonder if
any particular thing had made him so happy.
He pulled up his blind and opened his window
wide, that lying in bed he might look across
the spacious courtyard and see beyond the
great florid iron gates the wide park stretch
away like a green county under the springtide
blue. His heart grew great, and he
laughed with a sense of expansion. Then

he thought with a sigh that people would
feel a keen regret when such princely places
were no longer possible. His mind was very
active. After all, why should they not be
possible ? If the profits which the world
affords are unfairly divided, perhaps it was
not the landlords who got too much, but
rather the manufacturers and merchants.
And these merchants and manufacturers did
not enrich their fellows by making such things
of beauty as Boucherett, but only overloaded
the groaning earth with new monuments of
ugliness and ostentation. Perhaps the first
action of the reformer should be to defy the
musty precepts of the political economist
and to ensure fair wages for the workman.
Perhaps the landlords might be taught to
help the workmen against the capitalists
and so gain for themselves a new period of

dignified and noble life. Schemes came to
the quick-thinking youth as he lay in bed,
schemes of decent dwellings for the poor of
the towns, of healthy amusement, of open
spaces and pure water. Let the landed folk
admit the virtue of trades' unions, and let
the trades' unions accept the friendship of
the landlords, and the vulgar capitalist
would have to be content with less profit.
The friendship of a new and wise nobility
with a free and enlightened people was a
captivating idea. John broke short his chain
of idle fancies with a laugh. He found that
he was thinking the thoughts of a new sort of
Tory ; he remembered that he was a 'daring
Eadical. Well, after all, no man should bind
himself at the outset of life in the complete
buckram of a party creed. It was a morning
which suggested an open mind. John was

delighted with his quick thoughts, his clear
quick visions. It could not be said of him,
he felt, that he could take but one point of
view. Who could better venture to let his
lively mind play round a subject, for who was
surer than he of a solid foundation of sound
public morality ?

There came a tap at the door, and John's
pleasant musing was presently changed to
annoyance. The servant to whose care he
had been assigned stood by his bed-side with
a telegram. John tore it open, and in a
moment his face was full of vexation. He
would send no answer, and, as soon as the
man had gone, he jumped out of bed and
spread the offending telegram flat on the little
writing-table. It was from Colonel Brent,
and was very short. ' Come home, if you
can,' the Colonel had written, and no more.

John was made angry by this characteristic
brevity. He declared that it left him no
choice. Of course he could go to Brentholme.
It was absurd of Colonel Brent to give him
no reason ; it was treating him, a member
of Parliament, a man to whom the guests of
Boucherett showed much consideration, as if
he were a child incapable of rational choice.
While he washed and dressed himself, he was
inclined for each alternate minute to write for
further information and meanwhile to wait
where he was. However, he was sure that
the right thing was to go at once, and that he
would do the right thing. He always did the
right thing.

When he announced after breakfast that
he had been summoned by telegram, he
looked straight at the eyes of Lady Gertrude,
and he felt a thrill of pleasure as he read in

them an annoyance equal to his own. It
would have been more flattering to him if she
had tried to hide her feeling ; but her voice
touched its highest point of fretfulness as
she declared that something always happened
to spoil her party. She was plaintive ; she
thought herself for the thousandth time the
sport of a capricious destiny. She sighed as
she poured out a cup of tea for a late comer ;
she snubbed her father, who was curious
about one of the day's details, which she had
settled twelve hours ago, and she told him
not to fuss.

'The brougham will take you to the
,station,' she said to John, as if broughams
and stations had been created alike for her
peculiar annoyance. She sighed as she told
him the time of his train, as if it were started

at the one minute of all the day which was
most inconvenient for her.

The last thing which John saw as he was
carried away was Lady Gertrude's face, still
eloquent of the certainty that the world was
arranged for her particular disappointment.

CHAPTEE Xin

To" John Maidment's eyes the chalk slopes of
Brentholme looked bare, the hall chilly, and
the morning-room, into which he strode,
threadbare and faded. The Colonel's man,
who had grown old in the service of the
family, went slowly in search of his master,
and it was not long before the Colonel
appeared. Indeed, he had a strange tale to
tell, and, since it seemed to his own discredit,
he would lose no time in the telling. He told
it boldly and barely. He said that he had
lost a great deal of money, or at least so
much that it was a heavy loss for him.

I made a foolish investment,' he said, ' in
something American ; and as I shall have to
give back a great part of my rents of this
year, I must spend less for a time.' He became
very gruff, and seemed to draw up his
words from his very boots, as he said that he
should try to let the place for a few years.
The statement seemed to stick in his throat.
The boys must leave school for a year or
more,' he added, ' and try a tutor.' He
smiled grimly, thinking perhaps that Jacky,
Teddy, and Dicky were well made for the
trial of tutors ; but there was no answering
gleam of a smile in John Maidment's eyes.
John was waiting with ill-disguised impatience
till the statement of plans should touch his
own career. ' Paul,' continued the Colonel,
will decide for himself. Perhaps he will
stay in America for a while. He has found

VOL. I. p

a friend who wants him to join him in cattle-breeding.
He has, as you know, a little
money, which came to him from his aunt
Susan. He knows that I have been losing
money ; he will soon know how much.'

Then you told Paul.' John's sense of
injury fastened on this fact. ' I wish you
had told me,' he added almost in the same
breath,

I hoped not to tell you at all,' said the
Colonel after a minute, while only the flush
on his fair skin showed the pain which he
felt. ' Things might have taken a better
turn. Can you do with a hundred a year
less — for this year at least ? '

What internal convulsions had preceded
this curt cold question, nobody in the world
would have guessed. John had no conception
of the sufferings of this great healthy

man, who expressed himself with so much
difficulty. He was aggrieved, and did not
care to hide it.

Of course I must do with it,' he said.
His thoughts came and went fast. He had been
kept in the dark most foolishly ; the Colonel
should have asked his advice long ago ; the
Colonel had been extraordinarily foolish. He
thought that Mr. Randall would have considered
his advice worth the trouble of asking,
and with that thought his quick mind
was back at Boucherett. He had a vision of
a life where no trumpery hampering considerations
of expenditure need be. If he

were not to some extent bound Was he

bound ? He was obliged to come back to
the present moment, for there was his
guardian standing solid and silent before him
with his chin pushed upward and outward.

p2

Of course,' said John again, ' I must do
with less money ; I have no claim ; it is for
you to decide. I only wish that you had
told me, that you had given me the chance of
being of some help, however small. I wish I
had known.'

Colonel Brent opened his mouth as if he
would speak, but he shut it again and slowly
went out of the room. He went to look for
his daughter. Letty was sitting on a gate;
she looked unusually meditative ; she had
been regarding the familiar fields and trees
through tears which came unbidden with the
thought of leaving Brentholme even for a
single year. She felt an unreasonable dislike
of the people who would take ^ the place:
there might even be a girl who would dare
to have her favourite views and favourite
corners ; the idea was insupportable ; she was

sure tliMt the girl was horrid. Nevertheless
she looked up at her father with a smile.
She was very sorry for him ; she was sure
that somewhere under his great silence and
his stoical face there was deep sorrow.

John is in my study,' he said looking
over her head.

It was not much which he said, but the
girl was in the habit of finding a great deal
in her father's curt sentences. She read in
this one that John was out of spirits and that
she was to go to him, and she read in it too
with a throb of the heart that it was recognised
that she was the person whose duty and
right it was to comfort this young man of
genius. She descended from her gate with
a new gravity in her face, and she stood
a-tiptoe to kiss her mighty father before she
went slowly towards the house.

Letty had not reached the house before
she met John walking quickly and speaking
even more quickly to himself. She could see
his lips moving before he saw her, and the
sight roused a little opposition in her, which
made her hesitate. John Maidment was a
wonderful creature, so clever and so handsome
; she had always admired him so much ;
it ought to be such a privilege to help and
console him. He looked the hero of romance,
but for some unlucky reason on that morning
she could not feel romantic. And yet it was
determined : she was the being who was to be
dedicated to the consolation of this youth —
had she not dedicated herself? She tried to
feel the full dignity of her mission — how
great a thing it was that he should care for
her. If only some one of her young brothers
had been near to criticise John, she would

have found in his defence the necessary
warmth ; she would have met him then with
a glow of loyalty. As it was, she was half
inclined to run away.

John Maidment, who was not thinking
about the girl's thoughts, had hardly pressed
her hands in his before he began those
criticisms of the Colonel with which he was
overflowing. He told the girl too often that
the lessening of his allowance was nothing,
that it was not that which hurt him. Letty
grew colder and colder, and as silent as her
father.

I'm not greedy,' said John ; ' I think I
may say that. Of course it is extremely
hard to live in London and do the various
duties, which a member of Parliament is
bound to do, on so little ; but that is nothing ;
I make no complaint of that.'

Of course not,' she said with difficulty.

Although it will be very inconvenient —
there is no good in attempting to say that it
won't be very inconvenient.'

It's harder for my father ! ' she said
more clearly.

Of course it is harder for him, but why
didn't he consult me ? Why did he keep
me in the dark ? It is that which I can't
get over. He must have been speculating so
foolishly — even now he tells me no particulars
— it's treating me like a child. Of
course it's hard for him, but what has he
done with it ? '

You ought not to ask,' she said sharply,
and with a little nod of her head.

Don't be absurd ! ' he said angrily.

Thank you.' She stood a moment
looking at him, and then with her little head

in air she walked into the house, and having
passed beyond his sight ran upstairs, almost
stumbling in her haste, that she might lock
herself into her room before the tears came
flowing. It was thus that she executed her
mission of consolation.

For the remaining hours of that lagging
day there was little ease for the small party
gathered at Brentholme. They avoided each
other, and, if there was no quarrelling,
there was very little talk ; and so at last
bed-time came and silence was no longer
awkward.

The next morning Letty woke full of
happiness and wondered why. Beyond the
dimity curtains with their faded well-washed
rosebuds, she felt the freshness of the dewy
morning and heard the tumultuous babble of
the thronging birds. But these delightful

trifles of the day were only charms of the old
place which she was to leave ; they should
have made her sad. And a doubt would
come and come again whether she had been
kind and patient enough. She felt that she
ought to be sad ; she sighed conscientiously,
but her spirits would not be denied. Out in
the air she grew happier and happier ; she
was bound to nothing ; she was free. She
was filled with the ecstasy of freedom ; it
seemed wrong ; it was not what she had
meant to feel ; and so at last a great sob surprised
her, and she began to cry.

A little later John Maidment was flying to
London and thinking, whether he would or
no, of money. He had never fully realised
the importance of money. He perceived that
he ought to think about it. He wondered if
Lady Gertrude would have much. Suddenly

lie was shocked — where were his thoughts
going to ? He had a vision of Letty — what
would she think of his mind being busy with
money? His conscience had sprung up uneasy
; he attacked it with fury, with a passionate
declaration that he had been treated
infamously. If he were thinking of money,
is it not absolutely necessary for the independence
of the modern politician ? He only
wanted money that he might work, as nature
meant him to work, effectively for the public
good : he was sure that he was right to want
it ; he need not fear that he would ever yield
to any temptation to gain it by unworthy
means. How quick his conscience was to
take alarm ! He had been ready to blame
himself for thoughts which a moment's consideration
showed to be most sensible. But
he was glad that his conscience was so sensitive.

He could go forward without fear, for
his conscience would not let him stray an
inch from the path of duty. What a safeguard
was that !

CHAPTEE XIV.

The first year of John Maidment's Parliamentary
life was uneventful. There was a
great deal of talk and very little law-making ;
and though the young orator cared little for
the Bills which had to be abandoned, he was
much disappointed by the quality of the talk.
It seemed to him that the most loquacious
members, if they spoke less pompously then
his old friends at the Union, spoke less
fluently also. They had the air of hesitating,
as if the matter of their remarks was so important
that a wrong word would be fatal,
and yet with all their hesitations and repetitions

it was not generally a very valuable
thought wliicli finally struggled to the light.
John sometimes thought with a thrill that
when he unlocked his lips he would treat
this audience to something better ; but then
always followed the chilling doubt whether
those who liked this spasmodic method
would have the good taste to admire his
richer eloquence. Sometimes, as he sat
dreary on a dull night in the House (and
there were a great many dull nights in that
year), he told himself that it was not worth
while to shine among such a lot of stammerers
; and, as he looked round on the half-empty
benches, the slouching bodies and the
faces distorted at short intervals by wide
ostentatious yawns, he compared the scene
with his old visions of the great arena and
felt the full bitterness of the contrast. However,

though his view of the House was by no
means respectful, John was wise enough to keep
his opinion to himself. Moreover, he cleverly
made use of his disillusion to strengthen his
purpose of not making a speech that year.
He had meant to keep silence for a while, and
he was glad that the temptation to let his
words flow was weaker than he expected.
So he began to acquire among the few political
people who seemed to notice him a reputation
for constant attendance and attention,
and for a respectful attitude to the Senate of
his country.

Mr. Maidment was dissatisfied. After the
first excitement of London life he suffered
from a natural reaction ; he began to think
himself neglected. The chiefs of his party
seemed scarcely aware of his existence.
Mr. Stanley Belchamber was the only one of

VOL. I. Q

the leading men who showed any wish for his
better acquaintance, and this one loudly explained
his desire not by any expectation of
the young member's political qualities (at
their first meeting he pretended to forget to
which party John belonged), but by his lively
recollection of the escapades of Mr. Maidment
the Elder. He declared that he and Wilfred
Maidment had been boys together, that they
had heard the chimes at midnight, had been
sworn brothers in many a wild adventure.

To hear him you would suppose that this
worthy man, whose University first class had
been followed by years of the patient study of
Blue-books and ' Statesmen's Year-books,' and
by the conscientious staring at details furnished
by the permanent staffs of various departments,
had been Prince Hal and Don Juan,
and that the study where he had worked

with unflagging industry had been ornamented
with the knockers of half the fat citizens
of London. As he rose in the world, he had
been more and more offended by his reputation
for blamelessness. If he must submit to
the reputation of excellence as a public
servant, he could at least struggle against that
of private virtue. He took to swearing with
premeditation ; he went in search of improper
stories, and, above all, he delighted in references
to his younger days and to that dashing
swashbuckler in whom he half believed as
his former self.

So John found himself used as a peg on-which
were hung wild anecdotes of his father
and his father's friend who had been barely an
acquaintance, and, though he would have forgiven
the slight to his own claims for the sake
of the praises of his parent, whom it was part

Q '2

of his creed to admire extravagantly, he did
not like the stories which gave to the gay
doings of the brilliant Wilfred a coarser and
more common air than he chose to accept.
He decided that the coarseness was due to
the coarser medium through which the tales
reached him, but it gave him a mild dislike of
the only prominent member of his party who
paid him any attention.

John's discontent with his party made it
easier for him to contemplate with equanimity
the fact that he was not to support them in
carrying the Reform Bill. This great measure
was still a matter of some future session ; and
meanwhile John lost no fitting opportunity of
]privately saying that it would not have his
support. He wished to break his fall, to
prevent the shock of an unpleasant surprise.
There were a few young men in the House

who were Liberals because their ancestors
had believed in freedom of speech and trial
by jury, and these began to look on the
attractive Maidment as an acquisition. They,
too, were discontented with their leaders, and
their new friend found pleasure in their free
criticism of the men with whom they voted.

There were other influences too which
more directly drew John from his party.
While his own chiefs paid him scant attention,
he was complimented by finding himself an
object of interest to one of the ablest of their
opponents. Mr. Eandall cultivated him,
asked him to breakfast in the Albany, even
asked his advice. He at least had an adequate
conception of the importance of the
ideas, right or wrong, of the young men ; and
he listened to John with apparent respect and
very real interest. And there was a more

flattering, a more dangerous influence than
that of Mr. Eandall. Among the social attentions
which the young man received, none
were so pleasant or so frequent as those which
came from Boucherett House. There he met
pleasant men and charming women, who
seemed to accept his radicalism as a piquant
peculiarity ; he enjoyed the atmosphere of
the nicest house in London and the knowledge
that he was a lucky fellow to enjoy it so
often. Lady Gertrude had accepted him as
full of generous enthusiasm, as vastly interesting
; she had almost inflated him to heroic
size. For the disappointments of his first
session there was no compensation equal to
that which he found in the society of the
Whimley intimates, and especially in that of
the handsome daughter of the house.

John Maidment recognised the fact that

his enthusiasm for his great party grew colder
day by day, but he scarcely thought either of
the indifference of its leaders or of the attentions
of its enemies as causes of his growing
coldness. These he saw at moments with a
passing glance ; but to him there was one
cause, which alone was enough to explain his
disenchantment and to make his aversion a
virtue — the want of faith. That Tories should
have no faith had seemed to the young man
at Oxford a matter of course ; he had supposed
that cynicism was the natural attribute
of the Conservative who was not merely stupid.
Plunged into the atmosphere of London he
found the Liberals, whose acquaintance he
made, more cynical in private talk than any
of their opponents. He had imagined a great
party full of faith in liberty, full of zeal for
the raising and enlightening of their less fortunate

countrymen; and he heard from the hips,
which had filled halls and skating ranks with
resounding praises of freedom and protestations
of philanthropy, nothing more stimulating
than stale cheap sneers at anyone who believed
in benefiting anybody but himself, or on rare
occasions a shrewd hint how to play the game
of politics. John told himself again and again
that these men were cynical as a despot at a
time of decadence, and would play concerted
pieces on their Cabinet fiddles though the empire
were in flames and the strong man starving
in the street. John was vastly and constantly
indignant with this cynical tone ; he felt its
enervating power, its chilling and deadly effect.
It fully explained to him his growing
aversion to the leaders of his party. He was
never tired of denouncing to himself this fatal
influence, and at last there came a time when

his virtuous indignation could no longer be
locked in his own breast, but after an evening
of unusual provocation broke forth in indignant
speech.

It was near the end of the season when
John was surprised by an invitation to dine
with Mr. Otho Sunderland. Mr. Sunderland's
dinners were famous, and, though he had
always taken a prominent place in the political
world, his best attention was given to the
selection of food and guests. The latter were
always few and the former exquisite. Mr.
Sunderland was still a comely man, whose
skin retained a remarkable gloss and rosiness ";
and if there was something pig-like in the
lines of the face and the twinkle of the little
eyes, it suggested an animal of a refined breed
and one whose marvellous digestive powers
had been used with some regard to moderation.

Moreover, if at the first sight of this hospitable
gentleman the observer could not but
think of his digestion, at the next he was
bound to recognise his intelligence. Above
the twinkling eyes, which were themselves
very keen and vivacious, the head was strong
and solid. If Mr. Sunderland was like a pig,
it was a pig with the intelligence strongly and
sanely developed. He was very rich ; he was
a bachelor, and seemed happy in the state ; he
had great political influence ; he lead refused
office. He appeared to enjoy all aspects of
life, and one of the things which amused him
most was the game of politics. At his little
dinners he liked to entertain no one better
than a Cabinet minister, unless it were a pretty
and a witty woman. He had seen John in the
House, admired his handsome vivacious appearance,
and asked him to dinner. John

accepted with pleasure, for he had heard of
Mr. Sunder kind's influence, and he was captivated
by the compliment of an invitation to
one of those banquets which were notoriously
select ; and his pleasure was increased when
he found that in the small party to which he
had been bidden there were three Cabinet
ministers and at least two of the prettiest
women in London.

John prepared to be happy, but to prepare
to be happy is to challenge disappointment.
You build the palace of happiness
stone by stone, and dulness sits heavy in every
chamber : you go into the back-yard, and
with a glint of sunshine over the wall happiness
has kissed you and is gone. John found
himself out of it. The ladies, who were undeniably
pretty, and with eyes and teeth and
laughter which were almost wit, were so busy

with fascinating the more ponderous politicians
that they scarcely seemed to notice
that the new youth was good-looking, and
the attentions of the magnates of his party
were so casual as to be less complimentary
than obvious contempt. A limp finger from
Lord AUport and a galvanized grin on the
tired face of Mr. Belchamber were all the
signs that they recognised in Mr. Maidment
a pledged supporter. John's contempt increased
as the delicate feast went on. He
asked himself why this elderly Sybarite had
asked him ? His hp curled at the pleasantries
with which, to their own immense satisfaction,
the politicians entertained the beauties.
The insincerity of these public moralists
filled him with disgust, the coarseness and
clumsiness of their compliments. If the
admirable artist who had made the entrees

of the evening had had no finer taste in
flavours, tliev mis^ht have been dinner at a
farmers' ordinary. And their equivocal compliments
to the ladies were no worse than the
jests which they rolled at each other. They
told stories against each other and all were
of one pattern. Each had a tale of some
delinquency of the other. - If you had believed
them, you would have supposed that her
Majesty's ]ministers cared for nothing but
gambling in railway carriages, following
pretty women, and sneering at politics. Otho
Sunderland beamed irresponsible ; he led the
talk ; he gave it its greatest richness. Somebody
spoke of the Radicals.

Eadicals ! ' he cried ; ' we are all Eadicals.
Hillingdon is Eadical till you touch the land,
Allport till you touch his monotonous pheasants
; Simpson's a Socialist to the point of

Sevres china, and Belchamber to that of
ladies' gowns. The ladies must have pretty
gowns for Belchamber.' Mr. Stanley Bel-chamber,
in whose weary face the lines had
been vanishing in that unctuous atmosphere,
made ready to think of a mot, but the
irresistible host passed on above him. ' I
shall dish you all,' he said ; ' I shall lead the
party yet ; I haven't a taste I can't give up
with a smile — not even the gowns.' He gave
a large smile to left and right and added,
No degree of Communism can prevent one
woman from being prettier than another

Order, order ! ' cried Lord Allport for no
particular reason and laughed immoderately.

Otho doesn't stop at the gowns,' said
Stanley Belchamber, who had at last put together
something which seemed witty. Perhaps
it was witty, for they all laughed, and

pretty Lady Skipmore whispered something
to Mr. Hiilingdon, and called him a cad when
he threatened to repeat it.

Don't reform away our pretty clothes,'
said lovely Mrs. Milliner gravely ; ' we should
be nothing without them.'

Mrs. MuUinger had large soft eyes, and
made the most simple remarks. Nobody
knew if she meant to be funny, and, when her
audience roared with laughter, she looked at
them like a surprised dove.

As the wine began to take effect and the
public servants expanded more and more, the
talk came faster and the jokes aroused more
generous laughter. Hiilingdon declared that
Lord Allport had sold the future of the
House of Lords to a beautiful Radical lady ;
and Allport asserted that Hiilingdon had
failed to meet the local Three Hundred, whose

mouthpiece lie was, because he was so intent
on robbing a bagman at ecarte that he had
passed the station unawares. ' There he was
in a first-class carriage with the blinds down
pocketing the gent's last shilling, and there
were his masters outside waiting for his
defence of his monstrous and unpatriotic
treatment of the great French Egg Question ;
they'll never forgive him ; the seat's lost.'

'Hilhngdon,' said Mr. Belchamber,
would make any place too hot to hold
him;

Ah ! ' cried Otho Sunderland ; ' he may
find that useful some day.'

There was a pause before the laughter
came ; there was a sort of shiver in Lady
Skipmore's silvery laughter. Lady Skip-more
had been born and brought up in one
of the quieter towns of New England, and

her first success in English society had been
as the daintiest of Puritans ; but she was a
clever little woman, and finding that in the
set which struck her as the best a certain
freedom of speech prevailed, she had drilled
herself through a time of blushes to listen
to amazing talk and to answer in the same
key. 'When you are in Some,' she said
to herself, ' you must talk as the Romans
talk,' and it was not long before she bettered
her example. It was all talk with Lady
Skipmore, and the letters which she wrote
to her relations in America were filled half
with the names but not the talk of the
prominent people among whom she moved,
and half with the latest anecdotes of her
babies.

John Maidment was vastly disgusted.
The night was hot and dry, and when he

VOL. I. R

left Mr. Sunderland's house he found small
refreshment. On the stairs he had heard
a burst of laughter, and felt certain that
they were laughing at him. He would
make some of them laugh on the wrong
side of their mouths yet. He half resolved
to start the crusade on the morrow — to set
forth on a speaking tour, to stump the
country, to lay bare to the deluded provincials
the intimate opinions of these men,
whose moral perorations had thrilled them
in the daily papers. He remembered the
time when he too had been thrilled, and
he was furious with these men who had
deceived him. 'What do they think of
me,' he said aloud, ' that they speak like
that before me? Do they think me a fool
so weak that I can't hurt them ? ' He
was deeply wounded. It seemed to him

that he had never before seen in all its
naked deformity the shameless cynicism of
the political orators whose mouths were full
in full political meetings of equity, philanthropy,
morality.

R 2

CHAPTEE XY.

The next morning John Maidnient was engaged
to breakfast with a genial young Whig
of his acquaintance, and he was still so full of
the impressions of the last night that he spoke
eloquently and with feeling of the contrast
between public professions and private beliefs ;
and, being met with some light objections
and comments, he grew rapidly warmer and
expressed himself with an earnestness and
even with a passion which is rare at an
English breakfast table. He made an excellent
impression. His words were very effective,
and some of the listeners were busy

wondering if he might not be a power in the
House. They wagged their heads at each
other when he had gone, and said that he
was a very earnest chap and had lots of go ;
and before he went his young host, wise as
genial, had engaged him to come and speak
to his constituents for him on some occasion
before the next meeting of Parliament,

Some months passed before John's Whig
friend claimed the fulfilment of his promise,
and he responded to the summons like one
awaking from a lethargy to a glorious
day. He had not enjoyed these months of
repose. He had stayed for the most part in
his dull London lodgings, studying and
doubting the usefulness of his studies ; thinking
of Brentholme which had already found
a tenant, and telling himself that he had no
place to go to ; taking a doubtful pleasure in

economising. He pictured the Brent family
established in the Marine Parade of the
quiet watering-place which was too near to
their beloved home ; he did not want to goto
them ; he was angry because they did not
press him to come. He was angry too at the
folly of the family. It was absurd that they
should have got themselves into such a position
with their pride and reticence. Why had
the Colonel not confided in him from the
first ? He asked himself the question again
and again, though he was sick of it. He
pictured Paul riding about after cows in Montana,
and did not like the picture. Reminded
of a promise which he had forgotten, and
being called to speak at short notice in a small
country town where he was unknown, his
spirit leapt within him ; he felt the first stirring
of spring; he perceived that another time of

political activity had come ; his speech was
ready to flow. And his speech did flow indeed,
and to such purpose, that the rumour of it
spread beyond the petty place where it was
delivered ; it was noticed by more than one
of the London papers, and finally one passage
of it was quoted in a leader of the ' Times.'

The chiefs of John Maidment's party had
concocted a little measure for Ireland, and,
after producing it with tender patronising
speeches, had been obliged to postpone it to
the coming session. Upon this one of the
entertaining experiments which are made
upon the sister island John, sore with things
in general, and especially with his leaders,
allowed himself a free rush of indignant
criticism. He did not suppose that he would
be heard beyond the whitewashed walls of the
Institute, and he thought that he might relieve

his overcharged heart and hear no more of
it. He did not mean to say much ; but the
excitement of speech after long silence, the
applause of his audience mingled with expostulatory
grumbling of the most orthodox, and
the unfeigned delight of his host, carried the
young orator forward on a full stream. He
touched briefly on former and larger measures
for Ireland, and, after pointing out that the
expected effect had not in each case followed,
he held up the little piece of legislation which
was to be now tried in its turn, and shook
it and turned it inside out and flung it down
with a fine scorn. ' Let nobody suppose,' he
said, ' that I look with disrespect on the
author of this measure. He has produced a
masterpiece. With patient industry and a
more than Machiavellian subtlety he has put
together a piece of legislation so ingeniously

framed that the good, which it can in the
happiest circumstances effect, will be the
least possible, and the disturbance which it
cannot but produce must be incalculable
and irremediable. I congratulate her Majesty's
Government. We are all warm supporters
of her Majesty's Government.'

Here he was interrupted by the warm
applause of those who had been a little puzzled
but now recognised a familiar signal for
acclamations.

'We are all warm supporters of her
Majesty's Government, and it is our privilege
to recognise with the profoundest sentiments
to what an amazing pitch of ingenuity her
Majesty's Government can attain.'

Here there was another burst of applause,
but some of the more wary were again
puzzled and abstained and looked cunning.

This little measure,' said John in his
sweetest tones, ' so long expected, so fondly
cherished, nursed so carefully in the recess,
displayed so delicately in the session — this
little measure has every fault which so small a
creature can exhibit. Sent as yet another
messenger of conciliation, it will conciliate no
class and exasperate all ; instead of the olive-branch
it bears the fiery cross ; it will embitter
every cause of discontent in the country
and will mitigate none. You have all heard
of the physician who threw his patients into
fits because he understood fits. It might
almost be held by a cynical critic of measures
such as these that the Government Heed to
throw Ireland into convulsions because they
understood coercion bills.'

It was this last illustration which was
repeated by many people and which found

its way into the leading newspaper. John
thought little of it ; it had occurred to him
while he spoke, and had taken shape before he
had criticised it ; for some reason it had in it
the element of popularity. It was fated to
turn up again at an important moment and to
have a starting effect on its author's career.

There was dull speech-making in the
House of Commons. The little Irish measure
had reappeared, but shone with a fainter light.
There was a general belief that it was doomed ;
it was rumoured that it was a cause of dissension
in the Cabinet, who, as one cunning
gentleman asserted, were only unanimous in
the intention of ascribing its loss to the obstruction
of the Opposition. Its success would
have been a doubtful good ; its failure might
be of value to its party. It is no wonder that
debate on a matter so small and with so little

vitality grew more and more languid. Even
the heat of the Irish members required constant
stirring, and the more humorous of them
almost laughed in the midst of their denunciations.
It was a night of boredom. Scattered
on half-empty benches, legislators sprawled
and yawned. Most of them had reached a
time of life when monotonous oratory leads
softly but surely to sleep. Viewed from
ths Strangers' Gallery the House invited a
study of various degrees and sorts of baldness,
for, save where here and there one
peacefully slumbered in the shadow of his
tilted hat, the members were uncovered.
There was shiny baldness and fluffy baldness,
bumpy pates with wisps of hair laid dexterously
across, but scarcely one head thickly
and honestly covered. They were the heads
of elderly sensible persons, who had done the

more serious work of their lives, some at
ample desks in the City, some in the turnips
or on the heather. Now, as their waists expanded,
they seemed like men who were
taking their ease, as Englishmen sometimes
will, in the least easy manner possible.

But if to the great majority of members
poetics were obviously a matter of at least
secondary importance, there was a fair show
on both sides of the House of more earnest
politicians. There were men who were young,
as youth is reckoned nowadays, some on the
sunny side of forty, others between forty and
fifty.

Among these latter one might see the
keen gray face of a lawyer, who had worked
day after day from dawn to bedtime that he
might be rich enough to enter Parliament,
and who, having won his seat, was worrying

himself with the fear that he had forced his
mind into a shape too exclusively legal.
With nervous face, disordered hair, dusty and
gritty as his legal bookshelves, he sat twisting
his long legs and spurring his jaded attention.
There too was the grave rough face of a
workmen's candidate, who wasted too much
of his energy in the set purpose of showing
that he held himself at least as good as his
fine-haired neighbours ; and next to him was
the light fluffy hair and pale-eyed, self-satisfied,
intelligent face of the political theorist —
a theorist who had learned the general principles
of legislation from books, as a child his
catechism, and who spent his life in preaching
them like a Dissenting minister and in
measuring with his little accurate rules the
rough-and-tumble law-making of his party.
There too were the small body of the ,

cold, supercilious, critical of the
efforts of their comrades, statesmen themselves
had it been worth their while. There
too, next to the well-fed, well-groomed Otho
Sunderland, who watched the game with a
mild eupeptic interest, was the big head with
staring eyes of the politician altogether
serious. Destitute of humour, loving debate
however dull, rushing in private life into discussion
and explanation of old debates long
gone by, retailing on no encouragement old
House-of-Commons jests and anecdotes, proud
of the least significant of public offices, and
looking up with respect to his colleagues
in the Cabinet, the politician, who played
the game as if he had one of his claw-like
fingers in the management of the Universe,
presented to the observant eye a strange resemblance
to an unfinished eagle. And there

were a few men really young, shining like
the lilies of the field in a great company
of potatoes, who proclaimed in every line of
head and face, as in their clothes and boots,
that they owed their seats to family influence.
They were a strange gathering, and over all
of them — the successful, those who might
have been successful, those who struggled
for success, drowsy elders and gilded youths
alike, intellectually pigs and unfinished
eagles — hung on that night a double portion
of dreariness. Dreariness was the very atmosphere
of the scene. One might have
thought that the speakers were condemned to
fill so many columns of the morning paper.
An orator stopped in the midst of his oration
to yawn. A thought had been beaten thin ina
newspaper article, and now the article was
beaten thin in a speech. It seemed as if

viands had been warmed up again and were
served to people who had already supped too
well. It had all been heard before ; they
would have to hear it all again. The hearers
sat like men who were undergoing a cure,
condemned to sit and let words trickle over
them, so many an hour, in a sort of bath of
vapours. They were undergoing the word-cure.


John too was overwhelmed by the general
dreariness. He sat hearing arguments, foreseeing
the argument which was to come next,
repeating like a machine the answer which
had been given so often. He sat like a lonely
pleasure-seeker at a dull play, the dialogue of
which he knows by heart.

But on a sudden he was aroused from his
lethargy, A speaker of the Opposition, who
had been going on the familiar round, tired

VOL. I. s

2-) 8 JOHN Maiden

perhaps of ending his speech with his usual
sentence of solemn warning, dropped an
allusion to fits and coercion bills, and sat
down. Two or three people, dio were less
near to sleep than their neighbours, looked at
John and smiled. The Cabinet minister who
rose to take his turn at the evening's solemn
mockery turned as he rose and looked at
John. The young member felt a sudden
thrill of nervous excitement, but it grew faint
as the great man began to repeat the familiar
answers to the familiar criticisms of the last
speaker. It was not until his task was done
that he seemed to remember the young supporter
who sat behind him ; and then, with
an air of patronage and playfulness, he said a
few words about the indiscretion of extreme
youth.

There was a laugh, and John leapt in his

seat. To be rebuked and patronised by one
of these very men with whose flippancy he
was so righteously angry ! To be ridiculed
by a master of such clumsy forensic pleasantry
! John did not stop to think what he
was doing ; he was on his feet before the
minister had lowered himself to his place ; he
met the recognition of the Speaker's glance ;
he was making his first speech in Parliament.
He heard his voice full and firm in the place ;
he felt words and sentences arrange themselves
before him ; the arguments were only
too familiar, but his annoyance gave them
life ; he was glad of his annoyance, for he
spoke with fire, and knew that he was speaking
well. The House began to fill rapidly ;
members poured in to listen, and those who
had been dozing on the benches sat up and
forgot the immense tedium. John felt the

growing interest, the delight of kindling
admiration, the old stimulant of opposition.
The criticisms of the small Irish measure
sprang with new life to his lips, and, when he
had made an end of these, he dared to pass
to a wider view of the needs and distresses of
Ireland, to a fine scorn of meddling injurious
legislation, to a finer hope of honest and
helpful reforms. He did not speak too long ;
he trusted to his instinct ; he broke off when
the sympathy of his audience was warmest.

As for the allusion to my youth,' he said
with an effective change of manner, ' if indeed
it could have been intended for so insignificant
an individual as myself, I will not repeat
yet again — trite answer to a trite accusation
— that youth is a fault soon remedied. I
will not affect to regret that I am young.
I will only say that, when I am come to man's

estate, I hope that I shall know better than to
mistake a worn-out historical taunt for an
effective rebuke.'

When John sat down, the House was full
of animation, and he heard the delighted
acclamations of the Opposition.

CHAPTEE XVI.

The young man who wakes to find himself
famous may be surprised to find how little
way the trumpet of fame can carry. The
servant girl who trots upstairs with his tea
and toast is aware of no change in his
importance. The man who lives in the
rooms below does not know his name ; the
man who lives in the attics above scorns him
as a well-dressed idler, A friend and playmate
of his childhood wonders vaguely, as he
walks into the City, if the Maidment who
seems to have made rather a good speech is
any relation of the fellow whom he used to
know at school ; and he tries to remember if

that was the way in which his friend spelt his
name.

Still John was famous. His name was
in all the papers, and his speech was fairly
reported in some of them. At least two men
stopped him in Pall Mall to congratulate him,
and the sociable young Whig, for whom he had
spoken at Easter, passed his arm through his
and walked him up the pavement of St. James's
Street with the air of an impresario who had
brought out a successful prima donna. In
Piccadilly too a very smart lady in a very
smart carriage clapped her little gloved hands
in a most knowing manner, and the next
moment a Cabinet minister's wife, who, as is
the way with women, was a far more earnest
partisan than her semi-cynical lord, glared at
him like a political Medusa, John was not
turned to stone : he felt that he had really

made an impression ; he was aglow with life ;
it was summer in all the air ; it was hard to
believe that any place could be more delightful
than the shady side of Piccadilly. Nor did
John Maidment's reputation pass with the day.
His attitude to his party was the text of
leading articles and the cause of letters more
or less indignant printed in the daily papers ;
while at the week's end a whole article of a
wise and good weekly Review was dedicated
to the young member, who found himself
admired and chided with the tender regret of
the least narrow of maiden aunts. He had
been naughty, but he was a very clever boy :
it was by no means certain that he too had
not some touch of genius.

These were brave days for the young
man. He marked a daily growing flood of
cards of invitation, and the more flattering

tribute of little notes. Nods in the street
were more marked ; people who knew him
were glad to say so, and were apt to think
that they had always known that he would
make his mark. To make his mark — is it
not a fine phrase ? To insist upon recognition,
to cry aloud that this is I who
have done something. The uneducated
person who cannot sign his name makes
his mark also, but that is another
matter. It was the season, the time of the
flood of frivolity, when everyone in the world,
the world who dress and dine and ride on
glossy horses in the Park, was on the lookout
for a novelty. ' Tell us of some new
thing,' they seem to cry to each other ;
'boredom is only half a length behind, and
we must catch at something interesting orbe
caught. Oh ! my dear, is that the young

man who made the wonderful speech or
something ? How clever he looks, and what
eyes ! My dear, you must introduce him tome.'
Charming women declared emphatically
that they must know John Maidment.
Little plots were made that they might meet
him at luncheon. His manner was pronounced
perfect. He was vivacious ; his eyes
were full of fire ; it was often said of him that
he was such a relief after all those young men
who could not amuse themselves and took no
pains to amuse anybody else.

It seemed to John as if all the world
was kind to him except the magnates of his
party. Cards came to him from their wives,
but no personal attentions. They still preserved
the attitude of superior beings and
showed no sign of thinking him dangerous.
The Cabinet of the day was composed of men

unusually clever ; they had dexterously
defended many weak positions ; they had
reached the point of thinking that nobody
outside their charmed circle was of much
importance. As for this boy who had attacked
them from the rear, when any one of them
thought of him at all, he took care to be
patronising and contemptuous. John was
angry ; he let the insolence of their attitude ;
he was sure that this ignoring of his powers
was mere affectation — part of the awful insincerity
which had shocked him so deeply
already. He waited for his opportunity and
attacked them again. As the session went on
he made more speeches, spirited, effective,
not too many. If his own side preserved
more or less the air of indifference, the Opposition
grew more and more enthusiastic, and
his words flowed apace under the combined

stimulants of applause and indignation.
Nothing could be more effective than his
attitude of the enthusiast who had lost or was
fast losing his cherished illusions. He looked
the part ; he felt the loss. He seemed to
embody the ardent faith of youth. His voice
trembled as, speaking for the young Liberals
of his college days, he described their ardour
for reforms, their trust in their leaders, their
vision of the fairer day to be, and then, carried
away by his feelings, contrasted the hopes of
these young enthusiasts with the catch-vote
compromises of judicious and sceptical politicians.
It was John's best peroration, and
he recognised with delight that he owed its
vigour to his righteous indignation. He
nursed this indignation ; he kept his eyes fixed
on the insincerities of the party leaders ; he
tapped them, and listened to the hollow sounds.

While they turned a bold front to the world,
was it not notorious that no one of them
agreed with his fellows ? If they were big
with contempt of all who were outside of the
charmed circle, were not all their best energies
wasted in wrangling within it ? What chance
Alas there of an effectual policy from a collection
of men who disagreed on the very aims
to which their efforts should be directed ?

More and more directly with each succeeding
day did John Maidment's criticism of his
chiefs lead him to a comparison of parties.
More and more ready was he to declare that
for useful reforms Liberals were not a whit
more zealous than Conservatives. In his
moments of leisure and solitude he reviewed
the questions which were sure to arise, and
considered what were the coming Liberal
measures which he would be called upon to

support. There was the extension of the
franchise, but that he must put aside, for by
the peculiar accidents of his case he was
prevented from voting for any extension of
the franchise. As for the land, he expected
nothing from the present Government but a
too probable meddling, which would produce
nothing but general insecurity. Of that which
is too often with unconscious humour termed
the abolition of primogeniture,' moderate
men of all parties expressed at times a mild
approval, which was extended also to the
abolition of tenants for life, and a cheapening
and simplification of the methods of land
transfer. For any more sweeping changes inland
tenure were these ministers, of whom
the majority were large landowners, likely
to be in earnest — these ministers, who, as
John had found to his sorrow, were earnest

about nothing ? All sorts of useful reforms
were kept waiting because they were not of a
kind to excite the sluggish imaginations of the
mass of voters. The fairest river in the
world ran foul and putrid through the richest
city. Crowded on rotting floors and swarming
on crumbling staircases, boys and girls
grew up together with no chance of decency,
on playground but the gutter, no protection
for their youth.

As for these and other like matters, there
was apathy enough in all quarters, but there
was at least as much chance of their being
dealt with by a Conservative as by a Liberal
Government. Indeed, the first prominent
politician, who had coquetted with a scheme
for the improvement of the houses in which
herd the London poor, was a Tory leader,
who had incontinently drawn down upon

himself the rebuke and ridicule of Liberal
political economists. John Maidment said to
himself again and again that the Opposition
were at least more honest, and that from
them there was more chance of obtaining
useful, if unholy, reforms. They were
more honest ; they made less pretence ; they
did not taint the air with their sham philanthropy,
their windy protestations ; they did
not even go quite so far in pouring flattery,
which they knew to be undeserved, upon
their beguiled and injured countrymen. The
comparison of parties, which always ended
to the disadvantage of the party to which
he belonged, exercised more and more the
active mind of Mr. John Maidment.

One afternoon in the height of the season
John sat brooding in his lodgings. The
afternoon sun poured in, and gave an irritating

importance to the cheap striped tablecloth,
and a dazzling brilliancy to the glass
pendants of the chimney ornaments. The
blind was pulled up awry; a faint smell of
cooking came up from below ; the landlady's
baby was fretful, and an inferior organ was
jerking out ' La donna e mobile ' at the street
corner. John was out of spirits. The world
seemed dry and dusty as the July afternoon.
He was sick of his recurring arguments on
political parties, and as sick of that social
success which he had tasted so eagerly.
After all, his success had been as nothing
in comparison with that of the newest American
girl, who had exchanged her triumphs
as belle of Kansas City for the amazement
and delight of the Courts of Europe.
Even the enchanting Spaniard, who sang in
the most proper drawing-rooms those songs

VOL. I. T

of Spain which were suspected of being so
awfully wicked, had been a greater celebrity.
John pushed aside a pile of cards, with which
the table was littered, and was half inclined
to abjure society. His notes for an essay on
the Water Supply of London seemed even
less to the purpose ; it almost seemed as if a
drought was the proper thing for this inferior
Babylon. There was another pile of papers,
which pleased him less than any. He had
been extravagant in nothing, and yet he had
spent too much money. He looked round
the room and recognised his virtuous
economy in living in a place so unlovely.
He could think of nothing but hansoms,
which could have rolled away with his pitiful
allowance. What a shame it was that he,
who had so many important matters on his
mind, should be obliged to consider the price

of a necessary cab or a pair of decent boots !
Nobody, he knew well, was less greedy of
money than he ; but enough to save him from
these sordid calculations — was he not justified
in demanding of Fortune so little as that ? It
was so iniquitous that a fine instrument
should be blunted by base uses. If only he
had been as little scrupulous as other men, he
might by this time be in a position where he
could put all thoughts of money on one side.
He gave a great sigh, unlocked an old box
which stood on the sloping floor at his side
and shoved the papers in, and, as he pushed
them down, he caught a glimpse of a piece of
writing, which made him pause. Forgotten
in the old despatch-box was a scrap of paper
on which Letty had written some verses. He
remembered the exact place in the old
garden at Brentholme where he had caught

her spouting the lines, and had made her
repeat them, and he had condemned them
as formless doggerel, and she had been highly-indignant
and had declared that they were
like all summer to her, and that he knew
nothing about it ; and afterwards in a mocking
mood she had written them out for him
and bade him learn them by heart.

John thought that he was a great admirer
of poetry, but he had got out of the way of
reading it. Perhaps he had always liked it
best when it was nearest to rhetoric. Certainly
these lines of Coleridge, written in the
half-formed girlish hand, struck him still
as childish stuff: —

But green leaves and blossoms and sunny warm weather,
And singing and loving, all come back together ;
And the lark is so brimful of gladness and love.
The green fields below him, the blue sky above,
That he sings and he sings and for ever sings he —
I love my love and my love loves me.

A doubt flitted across the young man's
mind if there were not something in this song
after all, a certain freshness which changed
the air of his stuffy London lodging. But it
was the well-known writing which appealed
to him more surely. As he held the crumpled
paper, his conscience leapt up like a Jack-in-the-box
and began asking questions. Had
he been too quick to leave the girl, who in
his mental picture showed so fair ? Had he
not been wrong in writing so little to the
Brents ? Was she pining for him by the
green breaking waves of the shore? How
fresh and cool was the thought of the sea in
that stuffy room above the narrow street! It
would be sweet to breathe the salt air, if only
for an hour, and sweet to see again the girl
who perhaps was thinking at that very
moment of him. He could see her eyes as

they looked up and saw him comme. He
would go, if only for a single day ; he would
rush in upon the Brent family in exile by the
sea — yes, certainly, unless some duty, political
or other, prevented him, he would go down
by an early train on the very next morning.
If it were not for the big ball he would go
down that night ; but he must go to the ball.
It was one of the things to which everybody
went who had a chance of going; and besides,
he had told Lady Gertrude that he should be
there. He had not seen Lady Gertrude for
two whole days ; and lie had been so kind to
him — the whole Boucherett family had been
so kind — that he felt himself bound to stay
for that one evening. To-morrow he would
go ; and he felt so virtuous after this good
intention, that the heat and the dust and the

problems and the bills seemed light as air;
and, as the evening brought a grateful coolness,
he went out to dine at his club with a
quick step and a good appetite.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

Printed BY

SPOTTISWOODE A\D fO new-street SQUARE

London

BY
JT]IIA.>-

y\

inn

OF THE

University

or Ill Noise


St37j

V.2

t^JLT^ A ^/^L-

JOHN Maiden

VOL. II.

SPOXnSWOODE AND CO., New-street Square

London



JULIAN Surges

IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL. IT.

LONDON
LONGMANS, GEE EN, AND CO.



All right reserved

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/johnmaidment02stur

Sts>7j.
V. 2.

III.

(Continued,)

VOL. II.

Now it happened that John Maidment at his
club fell in with one of those young men
who represent most clearly the reaction from
lie languid swells of twenty years ago or
more. This was a very smart and sanguine
young man, who was charged with an excess
of vivacity, who prided himself on being on
familiar terms with all sorts of people, and
called almost all this male acquaintance by
their Christian names.

Ah, Johnny ! ' he said as he pinched
Maidment's arm ; ' how goes it, and when is
it to be, or are you still behaving badly ? '

B 2

What do you mean ? ' asked Johnny
with a fine blush.

Oh, of course — yes, yes — very prudent —
doosid careful ! ' said the other youth.
Where are you cfoinof when the season's
over ? Not to Boucherett, of course ? '

I don't know what you mean,' said John
loftily, but his heart was beating. Was this
outspoken person the echo of the speech of
many? Was it possible that people expected
this — that they had chosen him to make this
imposing match ? There was no girl in London
of whom the world would naturally expect a
more remarkable alliance. She was the striking
figure of her family, and the family was
one of the most powerful in England. She
represented rank, and wealth, and political
influence, and moreover she was beautiful.
She had been so kind to him, so frank in

showing her admiration of his talent, her sympathy
with his nobler views. Had she shown
more than admiration, a warmer deeper
sympathy? His mind ran back over their
friendship ; he almost heard the rustle of
her gown and felt the cordial pressure of
her hand. It was too early for him to goto
this ball yet ; he had not seen her for
two days — how would she welcome him ? He
would mark her welcome with a newer, keener
interest. If something should prevent her
from coming ? He began to imagine hindrances.
Personal friendships or local ties
might take her to some dance less famous ; she
might be ill ; all sorts of things might have
happened in two days. He blamed himself for
having lost sight of her. He was almost
thinking of her as if it were possible that he
misfht win her. Of course it was out of the

TOL. II.

*B 3

question : of course, when it came to the
point, she would not take him, or would not
be allowed to take him. Besides, he was
bound, or in some sort bound. Anyway, he
need not think of it, for she would never accept
him ; he would not be such a fool as to think
of it. Only he was glad that they would meet
that night ; it would be immensely interesting,
exciting. He looked at the clock. How slow
the time went 1 He could not go at eleven ; he
might be the first man in the room ; he must
wait a little. If it were not impossible on both
sides, what a striking event it would be ! How
people would talk about it! He thought
that he might go now.

There were plenty of people going up the
stairs when John arrived at the ball. It was
one of the staircases of London, cool white
marble and broad low steps, on which it was

pleasant for ladies to move upwards slowly
with their plumage drawn softly after them.
The lights were most becoming, the rooms
large and lofty as the rooms of an Italian
palace, and the handsomest women of the
London world took care to wear the finest
clothes and all their diamonds. It was an
atmosphere which may be described as decorously
intoxicating. John mounted the staircase,
vivid brilliant and excited ; about him
was a glow and a murmur, and before him the
unknown future.

When he had reached the doorway, John
stood still and looked eagerly into the room ;
opposite to him was the lady who was filling
his thoughts. She had come then. The lonnr
space of polished floor was empty between
them, for the crowd had not come. The
girl's head was turned aside, as she spoke to

the Austrian attached, with whom she Alas
going to dance ; she did not see John ; for a
few moments he could gaze at her and
wonder. She had never been so beautiful.
She was almost pale ; much of her splendid
colour had gone, and she looked the lovelier.
She was all in white ; she was dressed more
like a young girl than usual ; she was fall of
strength and grace, but she was certainly
paler. As Holm stared at her, she turned
her head and met his gaze ; he thought that
the great dark eyes were softer. She bowed
slightly, rather haughtily, but he was sure
that the colour deepened as she bowed.
Some feeling made him draw back ; he went
out again and stood at the top of the stairs,
watching the gowns come curling up, and the
smiles and nods of gracious heads. As he
stood musing, a lady of his acquaintance

spoke to him, and, as he answered her, he
went at her elbow into the room. There she
asked him a question, and then, with a light
musical lavish, she said, 'You ain't listening.
I see where your eyes are. I'm not a bit
angry ; follow your eyes.'

Shall I ? ' said John laughing, and walked
across the floor. Was everybody saying the
same thing? Had he given them cause to
think it — given her cause ? It was like fate.
What a prize she looked ! His thoughts
were going apace as he bowed before Lady
Gertrude. She was certainly different — a
little prouder, a little stiller, but also a little
softer. Though her words were complaining,
they lacked their proper sharpness and
emphasis.

You never come to see us,' she said,
since you became such a celebrity ; why

should yon? There are so many people so
inch more interesting.'

John vowed that, if he did what he liked,
lie would come every day, every hour. She
did not want to dance. There was a charming
cool corner in this luxurious house, where
was a palm-tree and lattice work as oriental
as the palm-tree ; and several observant
persons, who passed by the place, noticed
that Lady Gertrude sat idle there, while a
handsome and impetuous young man, whom
some of them recognised as a risings member
of Parliament, seemed to be speaking with
an animation unusual in Englishmen. John
caught a glance now and then, which was full
of meaning to him, and heard a whisper and
a woman's laugh. His vanity was on fire.
It must be that the world thought that this
fine flower was his to take or leave, as he

thought best. It must be true ; she must care
for hin. What other cause could there be of
this new gentleness, this adorable softness of a
creature so proud and splendid ? He looked
at her, and she would not meet his eyes ; he
leaned towards her speaking eagerly, and she
was silent ; he heard his own voice full of
emotion, and felt that she was moved by its
music. What a prize to gain ! How men
would envy the man who won her ! At the
thought he looked up and saw Algy Garner
stop short not twenty yards away, and glare
at him with an open rage which was almost
like a blow. Mr. Garner had as little concealment
as a savage. He was a savage. He
turned away without a nod. John looked
after him, and his face was eager, radiant,
triumphant ; he felt his power and the joy of
the conflict.

When John woke the next morning, he
asked himself if he were bound or free.
Certain words which he had said to the girl
just before their parting, were as clear to him
as if they were written on his wall ; but he
could not tell how much they had meant —
how much she had taken them to mean. He
had no room for any other thought, and he
was glad to thrust all other thoughts away.
He had clean forgotten that on that morning
he had intended to visit the Brents in their
new home by the sea ; yesterday's purpose
seemed to have been no more than a passing
idle fancy. There was only one thing for him
to do. He must see Lady Gertrude as soon
as possible. He would see at a glance, in the
mere look of her greeting, how much she had
taken his words to mean, or how little —
whether he were still free or bound. He

half hoped that he was bound ; that at least
would end all doubts and hesitations. Moreover,
he foresaw, though he would not recognise
the thought, that he would say to himself
that he had drifted into this affair, that he
had not deliberately made up his mind to
transfer his affections to Lady Gertrude and
to think no more of that other girl, who had
been so much to him in his boyhood. Had
he gone too far for going back? Was he
bound ? The hours seemed leaden-footed ;
he could scarcely get through the day till the
time came when he might call with a fair
chance of finding Lady Gertrude at home.

At last the hour came. As he followed
the footman upstairs, he thought that he
could hear his heart beating like a drum ; he
moistened his lips lest he should not be able
to utter a syllable. He had to cross a long

space of noiseless carpet ; the afternoon
light Alas shaded. He saw that the girl was
alone ; as she rose to receive him, he looked
eagerly at her face. In a moment came a
great feeling of relief; she greeted him as
usual. He sank into a chair, smiHng, with a
full sense of well-being. He was delighted
that she was so large-minded, so generous, so
noble. He could not see the slightest difference
in her look or manner. He was sure
that a meaner woman would have made him
speak plainly for the satisfaction of refusing
him, if not for the joy of accepting him.
Would she have accepted him ? He wondered
and forgot to speak.

'My mother is asleep in her den,' said
Lady Gertrude ; ' they will wake her when
they bring tea.' Then she went on to talk
of the trifles of the day and hour with

perhaps a little more hurry than usual, and
John found himself engaged in a little five-o'clock
conversation which began to irritate
him. He began to think that she was a little
too cool. Was it possible that her air of
unconcern was neither proper pride nor
generosity, but merely the result of inattention
to those words of his ? He had fancied
that her mind had been busy with those
words for the last sixteen hours ; and perhaps
she had scarcely noticed them. He was uneasy
; his vanity was alarmed ; he was sick
of this chitchat. He felt that he must make
her show a little consciousness that some
words had passed between them, some words
of more meaning than this thin society
babble.

Almost before he was aware, his voice
grew more tender, his talk more personal. He

drew this chair nearer ; he saw her colour
deepen. Then came a pause, and then,
obedient, as it seemed, to some external
impulse he said, ' Have you forgotten what
I said last night ? '

As the words were finished, he realised
that they were the very words which he had
meant not to say. He remembered that only
a few minutes before he had been relieved
because she seemed to have ignored his last
night's speech. There was no going back
again ; he rushed on ; he was eloquent, as he
could not help being ; he had not meant todo
this, but he felt that he was doing it well.
She made no attempt to ignore his words
now ; her blush grew deeper ; she could not
raise her eyes. His voice trembled ; he took
her hand in both of his.

CHAPTER Xviii.

Ix London at the height of the season there
are so many things of no importance which
must be clone, that there is little time for
comfortable leisurely criticism of our neighbours'
mistakes. Every clay, almost every
hour, brings its event, which demands a
passing ejaculation, and a good lady's mouth
has scarcely lost the shape of her last ' Oh ! '
when it has to be opened again for a new
Ah ! ' While one gossip is freeing her soul
of what she ' really must say ' about Lady
Blank's last flirtation, the other is inattentive,
waiting impatiently with Miss Castaway's last
engagement on the tip of her tongue.

VOL. II. c

Thus one event drives out another, and
the leaves fall so fast that the social gardeners
cannot sweep them into convenient heaps. It
is only in long mornings in country-houses,
when the crude males are shooting, or in
long twilights by the fire, when the same men
are stretching their legs in the smoking-room
after a day's hunting, that the women have
time to review the past season, and to give to
each of its events that degree of attention
and criticism which is its due. Then with
their delicate organs they touch and discriminate,
they wonder and regret, and ever
and anon some British matron of the hardier
type gives a spade its real name and with it
lays a fragile reputation level with the sod.

Not even the engagement of Lady Gertrude
Bookham could receive its proper attention in
July. Things were hurrying to a close ; girls

were counting the dances which remained to
them ; young men were proposing or planning
departure ; their elders, mindful of past
dinners, were looking trustfully towards Hom-bury.
An encratrement, even the encroachment
of the only daughter of the House of
Boucherett, could by no means be a nine
days' wonder. Nine hours, and those in the
minutest fragments, wei*e all that anybody
could spare to the consideration of anybody's
chances of married happiness. Still a great
many people in passing had a remark to
make about John Maidment's luck. ' The
chap hasn't a penny.' ' Hasn't he a father
somewhere? Something shady, obliged to
live abroad — Bologna or somewhere. Uncommon
clever fellow — bound to get on.'
Among politicians of all classes the engagement
seemed to excite far more admiration

c 2

of the young member than his success as a
speaker. They wagged their heads at each
other, and seemed to imply that it took a
born politician to be as clever as that. The
event was a great deal talked about for the
time of year.

If Lady Gertrude's nearest relations did
not talk much more about the affair than the
hurrying outside world, it is probable that
they thought a great deal more. Her placid
mother did not think it worth while to
discuss it, because, as she frankly said, it
would make her uncomfortably hot, and,
when all was said, Gertrude was sure to
have her own way. She did not like the
marriage. The young man was poor and
seemed not to belong to anyone in particular,
but she did not object to him much for those
reasons. It was true that in her young days

they did not marry that sort of young man ;
but times were changed, and lie accepted the
changes and still found herself comfortable.
She pronounced a deliberate opinion that
her future son-in-law would got on, but she
doubted if he would make a good husband.
Met thereupon with emphatic assurances that
John's private character was the great point
in his favour, she said that she had no doubt
of his virtues, but that she was not sure
that she liked young men who were ' not
like other young men ; ' that for her part
she had always rather liked other young
men. Lady Gertrude was mightily indignant
with her mother, and scolded her at intervals
with as much effect as if she were boxing
with a pillow ; Lady Whimley yielding and
soon smooth again, and her daughter rather
red and out of breath.

JOHN Maiden

As for the Earl of Whitley and Bout
that magnate was quite happy when
the necessary interview with the young man
was over. His wife had assured him with a
comfortable chuckle that it was quite impossible
to request his valet, who always
arranged everything so well, to receive Mr.
Maidment's proposals. She was delighted ;
she thought that nobody but her husband was
capable of such an idea ; she shook with silent
laughter whenever she thought of the valet.
So Lord Whimley was much occupied by the
necessity of seeing the young man, and of
bearing himself with proper dignity during
their interview. If Gertrude wanted to
marry Mr. What-d'ye-call-him, there was no
good making a fuss about it ; he supposed
that he could get his son-in-law something,
though there were not so many things to be

had nowadays. He felt, however, that it was
his duty to be as impressive as possible, and
that there were certain things which he would
be expected to say with an impressive manner.
He felt that Bookham would be annoyed if he
came back from the Antipodes and found that
his father had not done the thing in the proper
way. He slipped out and went down in a
hansom to Mr. Eandall, who showed no surprise,
spoke well of the young man, and gave
satisfaction without giving advice ; by Mr.
Eandall he was pushed onward to the family
lawyer, who suggested a few phrases, and
who understood with exhilarating readiness
what sort of provision should be made for the
daughter of the House.

After this, Lord Whimley prepared to
receive Mr. Maidment. He chose the library,
for it was very dignified and rather dark.

The walls were covered with old Spanish
leather, dark wood and Avell-bound books,
relieved at intervals by rich paintings and
silver sconces ; the heavy carved furniture
gave to its owner a comforting feeling of
solidity. He stood before the great empty
fireplace, and with the help of a long piece
of string bore himself bravely in the contest.
John behaved beautifully ; he had been by
no means sure that he would not be sent
about his business ; he was equal to either
fortune; he showed most proper feeling.
Lord Whimley got on capitally. The lawyer
had said more than once that ' a lady in Lady
Gertrude's position must live in a certain
style.' The phrase was most useful, and her
father insisted on the style in which Lady
Gertrude must live, so amiably and so often,
that John found himself graciously consenting

that his future wife should be a comparatively
rich woman. Lord Whimley wrung
his hand, and being by the movement reminded
of his bit of string, proceeded to
show him a new form of cat's-cradle ; then he
recovered his dignity, and said some more
of the style in which Lady Gertrude would
be expected to live, venturing timidly some
words about ponies. Finally, as he felt that
the end was in sight and all well, he confided
to his future son-in-law an amazing funny
story of his own proposal to her ladyship.

John Maidment, when he had parted from
Lord Whimley, perceived with wonder that
his fate was sealed. He regarded himself as
the victim, whether for good or for ill, of
Fate. It seemed almost impossible that he,
John Maidment, was about to make this
marriage ; it suited him to let himself slide,

to be the victim of Fate. He was surprised
to find himself so calm. His conscience
scarcely made itself felt. His contact with
the world, especially his daily contact with
the political world, had strengthened his
habit of regarding himself as far more scrupulous
than his fellows. Every day he had
been contrasting himself with the cynical men
who played the game of politics, until he saw
himself more clearly than ever as the Scrupulous
Man. It was only the tenderly scrupulous
man who would have doubted for a
moment if he were not in some sort bound
to a girl who had repulsed him. He was not
afraid to think of Letty ; he said to himself
that it would not do to be afraid to think of
Letty. He pointed out to himself that Letty
had not wished to marry him ; he would
think no more of her ; it would not be right

to think any more of lier. So lie determined
to think about her and not to think about
lier ; and meanwhile he thought about her.
He could only keep telling himself that this
thinking about Miss Brent was another proof
of an over-sensitive conscience. On the
whole he was calm ; and, if a sudden rush of
doubts came to him, he told himself how
lucky he was — how much men envied him —
Jiow fine a girl he was going to marry. And
the rush of all things around him helped him ;
it was easy to feel himself dragged into the
rapids and swept along, excited, irresponsible.
John's most painful moments were those
in which he composed the inevitable letter to
Colonel Brent. This was his first duty ; he
would ]iot shirk his duty ; the Brents must
not aet the first news of his enofa<?ement from
the Morning Post. He had never found such

difficulty in writing ; he was discontented
with the letter when it had gone ; he felt sick
as he opened the Colonel's answer. Colonel
Brent's letter was very short.

'I trust,' he wrote, 'that you will let me
know if I can at any time help you in anyway.
I wish I could increase your allowance,
but that is still impossible. We are
all well, and all unite in wishing you every
happiness. I hope you will be a kind husband.
I think that women cannot stand
unkindness as we can.'

There was very little more than this, and
John, though he was a little impatient of
this extreme continence, was relieved.

We are all well, and all unite in wishing
you every happiness.'

So Letty knew, and she was well, and she
wished him joy.

The next post proved to him that he had
not decided too quickly ; it brought a few
hues from Letty herself — a few commonplace
hues.

I thought that I must write myself,' her
brief note said: 'I do wish you joy with all
my heart.'

With all my heart 1 ' John found the
words coming back to him with irritating persistence,
as he walked the streets. He went
every day to visit Lady Gertrude, but to-day,
though he was on his way to her feet, he
walked down a great many streets, which did
not lead directly to her abode. He told Himself
that he wanted exercise. Finally he turned
into his club ; he had remembered that he
must answer some notes of congratulation.

In the club, which was kept in a cool
and decorous twilight, lie was sitting with his

hat on, staring at the empty grate, with a
sheet of note-paper before him, when he
heard a fragment of talk.

What does she want to go and marry a
beastly Eadical for ? ' asked somebody.

My good chap,' said another young man,
who was well-informed, ' he has only got to
skip across the floor ; it's as easy as lying.
I happen to know it's as good as settled
He is to go over on his wedding-day, and
to stand at the next election as Conservative
candidate for the county with Bookham.'

'Well, I always heard he was a beastly
Eadical,' said the first speaker, who had a
good piece of obstinacy in him.

Ah, you hear a lot, old chap ; you have
all the best information, and you are always
broke. You are one of the knows — and
wouldn't you be a Eadical, or a sweep), or a

Turk, or anything else if it would help you
to an heiress ? '

'Indeed I would,' said the obstinate one
relenting.

John heard the door swing as the two
youths departed, but he still sat gnawing his
thumb and frowning. What right had anybody
to say that he was going to leave
his party? And for such reasons! That
is what the world would say if he were

to How infernally stupid people were !

Against stupidity, as someone had said, even
the gods fight in vain. The fact that his
wife belonged to a Tory family would have
nothing whatever to do with it, if he ever

should Were there not reasons enough

for leaving the Liberal party? They were
full of fine professions and effected nothing,
spendthrift with economy in their mouths,

blood-guilty and crying peace, peace ! interpreting
the cause of the people as the art of
coaxing voters. There were a thousand
good reasons why an honest man (and he
was at least an honest man) should leave the
Liberal camp — a camp of peace-professors.
It was irritating beyond endurance to think
that, if he should ever be driven to leave
Ills party, stupid duiulerheads would see no
reason for his action but his alliance with
the House of Boucherett. Alas ! that people
were so stupid — so cynical — so sure to see
no motives but the basest. John, as he got
up without having written a line, declared to
himself that he needed no alliance to insure
his success ; that he could do well enough
without the Boucherett interest. He looked
at his watch, saw that Lady Gertrude had been
expecting him for the last half hour, and so
dashed out of doors and hailed a hansom.

VOL. II.

CHAPTEE XIX.

]\roRE than a year had passed since John
Maidment's marriage. Another season was
dead, with its rush, roar, and restlessness ;
another session had gone with its nights
of poured-forth repetitions and its little
burden of doubtful legislation. John had
been more quiet in the House, but, when he
uttered, he had appeared for the most part
as searching critic of Government measures ;
and it was now generally believed that he
would offer himself as a Conservative at
the next Election. If the Reform Bill, which
had been so long looming, were passed before

D 2

the Election, the little domestic borough
which he represented would be a defunct
abuse ; but, whether it were defunct or no,
he had made up his mind to stand for
another place. He thought that he would
be happier, stronger, and more free when
he owed nothing to the Brents. He had
heard very Httle of or from them since his
marriage ; he persuaded himself to feel
aggrieved by their silence. He seemed to
himself to have had no rest, no time for rest
in the last twelve months. Besides Parliamentary
duties there had been house-hunting
and furniture-hunting, occupations dear
to the busy mind of his wife ; there had
been dinners innumerable given in honour
of the married Lady Gertrude, and balls
and parties ; and then had followed country-house
visits to several influential relations

and a longer sojourn at Bouclierett. John
was sick of it all, and had assured himself
ao'ain and ao-ain that all would be well when
they were settled in their new house.

But somehow the time of needed repose
did not seem to have come. Not colours
chosen and harmonised by the last fashionable
gentleman-decorator, not sofas stuffed
with the most delicate down of the most
expensive furnisher, could insure that rest
which John knew yesterday. Something
was wrong with him ; he became so easily
irritable.

John Maidment sat struggling with a
Blue-book and with incipient irritability.
He sat at the writing-table in the back
drawing-room with a sheet of foolscap by
-the side of the Blue-book, and, when he
lifted his eyes, they rested on and found no

relief in a blank dirty-white wall to which
a piece of bedraggled ivy hung by a rusty
nail. The house was in an admirable
neighbourhood, and some sacrifice of space
and air had been found necessary ; so many
people wished to live there ; the houses
seemed to have been fitted together like a
puzzle. John felt himself cramped. He
would have worked in his own den, but
that tiny apartment was lower down in a
sort of dry well, and at this winter season
but little light crept down to its window,
which was half-filled with unpleasant
coloured glass. So he sat in the back 
trying to fix his mind on a young
diplomatist's report on the condition of
Small Proprietors near Naples, acutely conscious
of his wife's movements, and in each
interval of silence expecting her next sound.

Lady Gertrude had settled herself with
the pronounced intention of working without
a break and in perfect silence at a vast
piece of artistic needlework ; and yet buta
short time had elapsed when John heard
her rustling quickly across the room. Tien
he could hear her reseat herself with a
great sigh, and almost immediately she was
up again and bustling across the room.
Instead of making calculations about olive-trees
and acres, rough manners and full
pockets, John could not help wondering
what his wife was doing. Why should she
move in such a hurry ? And surely her
clothes made more noise than any other
woman's. She sighed again ; she wriggled
her broad shoulders over her work ; her
chair squeaked and she answered it with
a petulant exclamation. Presently she

moved to another chair, which was nearer
to her husband's back, and sighed. This
sigh was so aggressive that John felt
obliged to say, ' What's the matter ? '

He did not turn round, but his wife
accepted the words as an opening.

Nothing, dear,' she said ; ' I only
Av anted to know what night we should ask
the Marty n Lawlers. You know who she
is — the daughter of Aunt Maria. She has
copied my gown.'

She gave a little laugh which seemed to
ask if he did not think that amazing. John,
however, made no sign.

I don't mind,' she continued ; ' why
should / mind ? 1 don't care about dress ;
I am perfectly indifferent to Society. But
it is funny. It is the only one of my gowns
Which I got from Paris, and she has copied

it before I have even had a chance of wearing
it. Of course she pretends it isn't a
bit like, but that's too absurd.'

Here she gave another short laugh with
more scorn in it.

'Would you very much mind telling me
what night I shall ask the Lawlers ? ' she
asked after a pause.

• Whenever you like,' said John, and he
turned a page of his Blue-book.

She moved her shoulders, coughed, sighed
twice, and presently was impelled to ask,
What are you working at ? '

Politics.'

'I really do think,' she said plaintively,
that you might sometimes talk politics
with me. Of course I am a woman and not
worth consulting ; but people did ask my
advice before I married. Mr. Eandall — and

I suppose you will allow that he knew something
about politics — used often to ask my
opinion. Mr. Eandall '

Hang Mr. Eandall ! ' cried John jumping
up. 'I wish to heaven you'd remember that
one must sometimes think of something more
important than your Lawlers and your Aunt
Maria and '

He was walking up and down the room,
but she sat still. Her eyes were pink, and
so was her nose ; it was only pride which
kept her tears from flowing. She was not
looking handsome ; she looked a little too
large for that moderate house. John had
already offended her deeply on one occasion
by hinting that perhaps she ate too much.
She was much aggrieved now.

I dare say you talk politics with Susan
Lulham,' she said with point.

John gave an angry exclamation and
dashed out of the room. He walked very
fast m the street ; he declared that his home
was intolerable ; he asked himself what he
had done to deserve a nagging wife. He
had married with such good intentions ; he
was so anxious to be a good husband ; he
knew that he was made to shine in domestic
life ; but he declared to himself that Gertrude
would not give him a chance. She would
not let him alone ; she would fuss about ;
she seemed to have no idea that she had
married a man whose duty it was to think,
who must have time and silence — other
people's silence. She placed him in such a
ridiculous position, when he was compelled
to insist upon the importance of his thoughts.
She was always holding up Eandall to him,
as if he must needs confess that he was a

smaller man than Eandall. However that
might be, his own wife ought not to think
him a smaller man. She bragged about him
to outsiders in a way which was almost
ridiculous, and yet she showed him that asa
matter-of-course she held other men his
betters. ' I do wish,' said John as he
hurried along the pavement, ' that she had
more moderation, more tact, more taste.'

It was some consolation to be sure that
when he and his wife disagreed it was
always her fault ; but still it was very hard
upon him. Of course she was fond of him,
very fond of him, but even that had its
inconvenient side — she had already shown
symptoms of the most preposterous jealousy.
When he was bothering himself, as so sensitive
a man must (John confessed the necessity
with a sigh), about some trifling point in

this conduct, she was sure to begin asking
questions with an aggravating transparent
carelessness about the entire Brent family,
and expressing her wonder that her husband's
nearest friends showed so little desire to
know her better. She made a grievance of
the coolness of the Brent family, as she
would have made an equally useful grievance
out of any eagerness to secure the advantages
of a connection with Boucherett. While her
husband sat behind his paper or bent over
his writing-table, she would pass from the
Brent family to the sole daughter of the
House, and appeal to John for confirmation
of her fancy portrait of Miss Letitia, as she
called her. This was very unpleasant to
John. Lately she had introduced more
often the name of another lady, and with
more direct aggravation had sniffed and

laughed over her husband's king for that
middle-aged and sickly widow, Mrs. Lulham.
She had begged men in John's presence to
explain to her the great attraction of Mrs.
Lulham. She was confident — and here she
was right — that he would rather talk politics
with Susan Lulham than with her.

John had said to himself again and again
since his marriage that his wife had been
spoiled. He was vastly indignant with the
snobbishness and frivolity of clever men, who
had listened with deference to the views of
Lady Gertrude Bookham because she belonged
to an important family or because she
was a handsome woman. He knew that these
men must have known that some of her
opinions were absurd, and others mere echoes
of those of the party leaders who frequented
her father's house — that her political creed

taken as a whole was a mass of inconsistencies.


And now the punishment, which should
fall upon those flattering windings, fell on the
lady's husband. Because he would not pretend
to consult her on the affairs of the nation
she was aggrieved, and he knew that she
would be always aggrieved. John said to
himself that it must be so — that he would not
pretend to think her political opinions worth
discussing. It was comfort to him to determine
that he would be honest ; and it removed
from this forebodings of the future the
dismal nightmare of long sham discussions,
from which he could derive no profit.

John walked and walked till his mind
grew more easy, and he began to think of
his wife with a kinder feeling. At last he
almost smiled as he pictured her enjoying a

good cry. She was sure to have had a good
cry, to have felt better, to have rung for a
cup of tea. The thought of a cup of tea
struck the young man as pleasant, and he
looked about him to see where he was. It
was certain that Lady Gertrude had finished
her consoling cup, but he had walked so far
from home that, if he turned leftward a little
towards the river, he would come to Mrs.
Lulham's house. Mrs. Lulham had excellent
tea, which was sent to her by a Russian
friend, whose name she never mentioned ; but
if the friend was questionable, the tea was
above criticism, and the thought of it carried
John a little further from home to that small
drawing-room, where he found most delicate
tea and a flattery of a somewhat coarser
flavour.

CHAPTEE XX.

To make an impression was the breath of life
to Mrs. Lulham. She had never been beautiful
; she had been young but for a moment ;
she had never been strong nor well ; she had
always been interesting. To be interesting
was the one interest of her life. Her husband
had been an episode ; she had had no child ;
but there had always been some man or some
Avoman whose thoughts were full of her.
There had been more men than women. She
grew tired of this or that one or they were tired
of her, but there were always others who were
attracted in turn ; and the frequent changes

VOL. II. E

were saved from a too crude appearance by
her frequent changes of abode. As the wife
of a good-looking colourless Secretary of
Legation, she had visited many climates and
found them all disagree with her ; and since
she had cremated her husband, she had wandered
to please herself, a very Ulysses for
travel and a Circe for wiles. She had listened
to the theosophist in the East Indies and
to the obeah-man in the West ; wherever she
went she had kept about her a peculiar atmosphere
compounded of mystery and the
sick-room, which had drawn many people to
her. Unusual people came to her — fashionable
women grown weary of leaving cards ;
politicians with plans for the future of Constantinople
and of Jerusalem; parsons in search
of the lost tribes ; the thought-reader ; the
healer by blue glass ; the healer by faith ;

journalists with a good deal of leisure ; novelists
who appealed to the cultured few ; the unacted
dramatist and the unappreciated actor ;
the soprano in search of an engagement ; a small
army of reciters who were always ready to
leap up and begin ; and, when she was in England,
a Httle string of foreigners with hungry
faces and cigarettes. She adored cigarettes
and smoked incessantly by the advice of her
doctor. She attracted men and women, but
more men than women ; she was a mistress of
the art of flattery, measuring her doses like
a skilful salad-maker and prodigal with the
oil.

Mrs. Lulham lay on the sofa in her small
drawing-room, with the last pamphlet on
Buddha and the last realistic novel frorr
Paris. The tea-table was before her and the
tea had just been made. To some, who had

VOL. II. * E 2

been disappointed in her, she might have
suggested a small spider, rather bloated,
motionless in the centre of her web ; but
to those immediately interested there was
something strangely significant in the direct
grave gaze of the round brown eyes, which
stared at nothing visible. A delicate faint
smoke floated around her head. She seemed
as one who awaited a summons. The two
young men who were present were of the
immediately interested ; they respected her
impressive stillness ; they conversed together
in whispers. And they too were interesting.
The taller of the two, Conrad Typekins, was
a socialist and a designer of mantel-pieces.
He was tall and slim, with thin brightly-coloured
cheeks. His features were small
and neat, and there was pert independence
about his mouth ; his hair was longer than

the fashionable length ; his eyes were calm
and defensive. He was olio-ed to watch his
own manner in the presence of those who
might forget that they received a favour in
being allowed to buy his little shelves and
brackets. He calmly awaited the time when
no private citizen would be able to have a
mantel-piece of his own, but in the meantime
his little heart was glad in secret that in his
brief day there were still luxurious homes,
where he might be asked to dine with his back
to his own design, and be easy in bearing and
loftily tolerant of surprised millionaires. The
friend who whispered to Conrad so eagerly
was a soft meek-looking youth, with flaxen
down upon his chin and a lisping speech,
which he had adopted as more pleasing than
his native cockney. Basil Gustard was a
poet, precious and passionate. His poems

were extremely erotic ; lie seemed to have
acquired a faint permanent blush from the
perusal of them. Lisping and whispering,
Mr. Gustard spoke eagerly to Mr. Typekins,
and both young men glanced ever and anon
at their hostess, who sat like a priestess with
the faint smoke about her, rapt, contemplative,
waiting.

If the priestess was waiting for something,
it seemed that on this occasion at least it was
for something tangible, for the set face relaxed
into a smile as the little parlour-maid
brought in the cake, which she had fetched
from the shop at the corner. But the lady's
face was solemn again when a minute later
John Maidment entered.

I knew that you would come,' she said.
She had not been so sure of the cake, for the
confectioner had been rather impertinent of

late. ' I always feel your coming,' lie said to
John, as she held his hand.

John was pleased. The welcome was
soothing ; the tea was not yet bitter ; he was
the most important male. The other young
men admired Mr. Maidment ; they admired
him as artists ; they knew that he had had a
success with the press and with the public
They would not have confessed how they
would have enjoyed a success with the public
and the press — how they would have enjoyed
despising it. To Typekins, moreover, Bout
had long seemed a splendid setting
for one of his mantel-pieces ; he had pictured
himself at Boucherett with his masterpiece
among masterpieces, artist and work alike
polished and alike admired, educating the
taste of the barbarian, tolerant of surrounding
dukes. As for Basil Gustard, for whom

history began and ended with Mary Queen of
Scots, he spoke of John behind his back with
rapture, and with his own special talent for
the inappropriate had named him ' Chastened.'
Conrad with open fearless looks,
Basil with furtive glances, admired John
Maidment, as he sipped the delicious Caravan
tea ; and then they listened with joy while
he talked, and the little sphinx on the sofa
sat smiling, musing, ineffable. All the talk
seemed to mean a vast deal more than it
could mean ; every word was more interesting
than it had ever been before. Time flew
so fast that John broke short off in his speech,
astonished by the clock, which even in that
atmosphere was keeping the commonplace
time of prosaic accurate Greenwich. He perceived
with amazement that he must hurry

home if he would not keep Lady Gertrude
waiting for dinner.

John had been soothed and comforted.
As he walked towards home, he o^rew warm
and hopeful. He thought of his wife awaiting
him, and it seemed easy to be tolerant
of her small weaknesses and grateful for
her deep affection. He saw her with his
mind's eye glowing and dressed with modest
richness for their little dinner of two ; he
enjoyed by anticipation the comfortable
dining-room with the glowing fire, and enjoyed
too the thought that he might use
coal freely without considering the cost.
It was no small matter to have a wife who
was naturally sumptuous and could afford
to be sumptuous ; he determined to be very
kind and very considerate. He impulsively

hailed a hansom lest he should keep her
waiting for dinner.

John let himself into his house and was
struck in a moment with a sense of desolation.
There was no light in the diningroom,
into which he advanced cautiously
that he miorht ring the bell. His servant
appeared with an air of polite surprise.
Her ladyship had gone to a meeting for the
friendless window-cleaners ; she had left no
message.

Was anyone ever so uncomfortably charitable
? If his man had not been so extremely
gentlemanlike, John would have expressed
aloud his contempt for the distressed
window cleaners. He was sure that his
wife would be a bore at the meeting, would
ask unnecessary questions with the solemn
over-businesslike air of a woman transacting?

business, and would be aggrieved at not
receiving enough attention. John was
annoyed.

I suppose I can have some dinner ? '
he said.

There were no orders, sir. I'll ask the
cook.'

In a minute the admirable domestic returned.
'Mre. Cantle says, sir, that her
ladyship supposed that of course you knew
it was her ladyship's night for the distressed
window-cleaners ; and her ladyship
didn't leave no orders for any dinner,
supposing that you would dine at the
club.'

John had not taken off his hat ; he
hurried out, found another hansom and
-went with much annoyance to dine at his
club.

John was lingering over his solitary
dinner when he saw Mr. Fisher coming towards
him. Mr. Fisher was very polite to
John. He was editor of a new and original
weekly review, and he kept an e^^e and a
genial smile on rising talent. This broad
smile and an air of candid admiration did
wonders for Mr. Fisher. He was not a great
man, but he had a keen eye for those who
might be great ; he had become prominent
by detecting the promise of prominence in
others. He seemed to say, ' I am a simple
fellow, and, when I see an admirable piece
of work, I blurt out my admiration of its
author. I am sure we should suit each
other. You must do something for my
paper some day.' Now he came and sat by
John's side and encouraged him to talk, and
when he saw his mouth opening, he looked

at him with a broad smile of expectation.
John began to feel better.

You are going to do nothing this evening,'
said Mr. Fisher with confidence ; ' come
with me to ]airs. Lillian's.'

It was a coincidence ; John was tempted.
It had been very pleasant in the afternoon ;
why should ,he not go back ? He remembered
that his wife did not like Mrs. Lulham ;
she would not be pleased at his visiting that
lady twice in one day. She had provided
nothing for him ; she had cut him adrift for
the evening ; why should he not go where he
could find amusement — harmless amusement ?

While these thoughts were flying, he
rather lamely observed that he was not
dressed.

She cares for none of those things,' said
Mr. Fisher ; ' she is at home in the Continental

fashion, in the evening, to all sorts
of coats.' He laughed aloud. ' Come,' he
said, ' and sit at her feet with me ! ' He
had the air of a genial uncle offering a treat.
He passed his arm through John's, as if he
were hooking a shy contributor, and the
young man allowed himself to be led away.

CHAPTEE XXI.

It is not always wise to try to repeat an
agreeable experience. Not three hours had
passed, but in three hours how many changes
may not an imaginative female in delicate
health undergo? It was a different Mrs.
Lulham who received John Maidment after
his short absence. She was not surprised (it
is not the way of sphinxes) ; it was her
mission to surprise. But she did not show
enough pleasure at seeing him again, and the
young man was chilled ; there was a slight
restlessness in her, and a tendency to paradox.
Perhaps she was tired of Mr. Fisher, who had

been pressing her hand for twelve months
past, and assuring her in a low tone that she
must write something for him. She had been
much tempted by this prospect ; she was
dying to publish a series of papers on all sorts
of things with a peculiar signature. She was
beginning to doubt if this frank admiring
editor would ever come from general protestations
to a particular engagement — to a date
for commencement and an offer of money.
Perhaps she was tired of Mr. Fisher ; perhaps
she thought that Mr. Maidment, who really
interested her, would grow tired of her too
soon if he came too often. She was restless,
and twice as mysterious as ever.

John was not amused, and began to wish
that he had not made this second visit. He
was doing a thing which his wife would dislike
very much, if she knew about it, and

the thing was not amusing. He was standing
near one of the two narrow windows, when a
brougham was pulled up short a few doors
off and he saw a man get out. At the same
moment he felt the little brown hand of his
hostess clutch his arm.

Quick ! ' she cried, ' hide yourself ; I
implore you ; if you love me ! '

Even while she cried out she had seized
with her other hand the coat-sleeve of Mr.
Fisher, and the two men yielding gracefully
to excessive weakness allowed themselves to
be thrust into the little back drawing-room.
With nervous haste the impulsive lady pulled
the folding-doors together, and left her guests
in darkness. John was not at all amused.

Preposterous antics ! ' he muttered between
his teeth, and he kicked away a stool,
over which he had stumbled ; he felt as if he

VOL. II. F

were treated like a fool. Mr. Fisher was smiling
more widely than ever ; he meant to convey
that he was a good fellow, a man of the world
who was not to be put out by trifles, and
generally that he found the world satisfactory;
he meant to express a great deal by that
smile, but he forgot that he was smiling in
the dark. So true it is that even the wisest
of men are to some extent creatures of habit.
There was a step on the stairs, the noise of a
door, and then the door which opened from
the place of captivity on to the landing was
cautiously opened, and Mrs. Lulham's own
maid appeared. This maid spoke little of
any known language ; lie was suspected of
being something Slavonic. Basil Guiscard
had darkly hinted that it was a man disguised
on account of political eccentricities. It
seemed to have a faint odour of dynamite.

Whatever it was, it was more mysterious than
its mistress. The swarthy fat face, inclined
by a flickering flat candle, was full of expression,
and the dirty beckoning finger was most
authoritative. John obeyed with a contemptuous
'pish,' and Mr. Fisher brought
his smile out into the faint light of the staircase.


In a house where the postman leaves a
letter from the Himalayas, and a prophet
takes by mistake a conspirator's umbrella, it
is only natural that the occasional dustpan
should be left on the stairs. John, made
careless by annoyance, stepped in the dustpan,
stumbled, hit the being who was their
guide in the broad back and sent the candlestick
flying. A parrot shrieked from under
the stairs at the new darkness ; an object leapt
from under John's feet, possibly the cat,

F 2

perhaps a familiar spirit. John gave a ridiculous
start, caught at the banister and twisted
his wrist, and uttered a sharp exclamation
as he arrived with a run in the narrow hall.
The possible Bulgar now relighted the candle,
and as its feeble ray fell on the umbrella-stand,
Mr. Fisher began to stare at it with a
face full of meaning.

When they were in the street, Mr. Fisher
pressed John's arm affectionately. ' Did you
see the umbrella ? ' he asked with a smile full
of wide knowledge ; ' it was Simpson's ; I
know its onyx top.'

I dare say,' said John crossly.

I knows it,' said Mr. Fisher ; ' it is the
smartest umbrella in London.'

Simpson is there, if that is what you
want to get at. I saw him.'

You saw him ! ' cried Mr. Fisher standing

still to express his great surprise. ' How ?
where ? how wonderful ! ' He stared with
admiration illuminating his face, which was
further lighted by a street lamp.

John was better pleased. ' I saw him
from the window,' he said.

Nothing escapes you,' said his friend
loudly, ' nothing ; ' and lie continued to look
at Mr. Maidment as if he were learning an
invaluable lesson.

Why under heaven,' cried John, growing
rapidly hot again, ' are we to be hustled out
of the way of Mr. Simpson ? Has she such
an admiration for Mr. Simpson ? '

He is a Cabinet Minister.'

He is a time-serving rascal.'

Have you never observed ? * said Mr.
Fisher ignoring this dangerous calling of
names, ' have you never observed — of course

you have — that even the cleverest women
attach immense importance to a Cabinet
Minister ? It's like the servant girls — it's the
uniform — when they have once seen the gold
stripe down the trowsers — you'll find it so
yourself. It won't be long before you find
the power of the gold stripe down the
trowsers.'

John could not help a reluctant smile ; it
was pleasant to hear such a prophecy from a
man who certainly had a wide acquaintance
with successful men. John had been standing
still since Mr. Fisher first arrested his steps,
and they had got no further from the house
than the corner of the next street, when they
came face to face with a man whom they
both recognised in the moment of passing.
Indeed he was a remarkable person. His jet
black hair, thin pale cheeks and finely cut

features made him romantic as the first independent
drawing of a school-girl, and it was a
well-known fact that, though an Irish patriot,
he had refused a large gift of money collected
for his comfort from the poorest peasantry in
the world. This enthusiast paid no attention
to the people whom he met in the street ;
he strode forward muttering to himself, and
John and Mr. Fisher saw him stop at Mrs
Lulham's door, and without one look behind,
enter that suspicious abode. John was
furious. To have been hustled out of a
house that a Cabinet Minister might have a
secret interview with a man whom he and
his colleagues loftily denounced from their
majestic bench ! And what made it most
bitter was, that this Minister was of all
Ministers the one who exasperated him most.
Mr. Simpson displayed in his face a very

unusual combination of self-sufficiency and
resolution. He had the nose of a pampered
toy-terrier and the chin of a bull-dog. He
was like a weasel for sharpness and tenacity,
agile in movement and untiring in pursuit,
following his object as a weasel follows
a rabbit in a warren, through any number
of dark devious ways. Mr. Simpson had
offended John Maidment by his mere appearance,
and, though he had not come
into collision with him, the offence had
deepened. Of all the prominent politicians
this was the one with whom John foresaw
that he would have the bitterest struggles.
He was confident that he would be stronger
in argument and immeasurably superior in
eloquence (for he held the speaking of Mr.
Simpson to be bald and common as the
speaking of a dexterous vestryman) ; but he

had a presentiment that this peak-nosed
politician would be slow to know that he was
beaten, would be eternally confident, would
shift this ground and say that he had not,
and would appeal powerfully to the average
House of Commons people by personal attacks
and commonplace jests. The horn of the
rhinoceros is strong though not elegant,
and his hide would make a candidate eligible
for any constituency.

John could keep silence no longer ; he
began to pour forth his indignation. He
recalled with ardour how, at a recent meeting,
this very Simpson had repudiated with excessive
mockery the idea that Her Majesty's
Government would hold any intercourse,
other than open debate in Parliament, with
the Irish party ; and now here he was
closeted in a little bureau of intrigue with

the most violent and least loyal of contemporary
Irishmen. John was warm and
eloquent, walking and talking as if one were
not more difficult than the other, and the
appreciative Fisher heard him with delight.
The young member rose from this incident of
the night to the general question of political
morality; and he spoke brilliantly, as he had
spoken before upon this subject, on the awful
contrast between public profession and private
conduct, on the hypocrisy and cynicism
and the disgust which they could not but excite
in the young, the generous, and the true.
When he had finished, Mr. Fisher seized
his hand and held it hard. ' Why don't you
do an article for me ? ' he said with zeal.

John gave a little laugh, as if he would
put the suggestion aside. 'It would not do
for me to appear in such a thing,' he said.

'But you need not appear. You could
assume a name — a nom de plume — it's done
every day. There is nobody I would sooner
ask. It is a good work, a great public duty
to show up Simpson.'

It is not Simpson only, he is nothing :
it is a wide and a spreading evil.'

Precisely,' cried Fisher with expanding
admiration ; ' precisely ! But Simpson must
be used as a type, and attacked as a type.
It would be immense. No man living could
do it so well as you.'

It was impossible not to smile, impossible
not to be gratified by so bold a statement
from this amateur of able men. John smiled,
but he shook his head.

I shall expect it,' said Mr. Fisher. ' You
ought to do it ; it is the obvious thing for

you to do ; it would be worthy of you.
Mind ! I shall expect it

He pressed the young orator's hand in
both of his, hailed a passing hansom, and
gave the address of an archbishop.

No, no,' said John as he turned away,
but he was still smiling. He thought that
it was true indeed that he could do it better
than most men — if only it were right that
he should do it at all — but he would think
no more of it, it would not do. He stepped
out briskly homeward.

John Maidment's mind was one of those
active machines which, when a tempting
subject is brought before them, begin to
work of themselves, and to turn out appropriate
phrases. John had said to himself
that he would think no more of the
proposed philippic against Simpson, and yet,

as his feet trod the pavement, so easily and
rhythmically did sentences come tripping to
his tongue. If he cared to do such a job, it
would be effective to write this and that and
the other. He smiled as pertinent words came
to him in quick succession, and now and then
an epigram ; he laughed aloud at the thought
that here at least was something which would
make even the rhinoceros-hided Simpson feel.
When John awoke the next morning, he
becran at once to recall the words and sentences
which had seemed so effective, and
to consider if they still impressed him favourably.
The subject had taken hold of him,
and would not let him go, though he laughed
and told himself that he played with it.
He looked at it as good mental exercise,
which would have no tangible result ; it was
amusing to plan this crushing attack which

would never be made. After breakfast he
shut himself into his Httle dim den and began
to write quickly. It seemed a pity not to
jot down the most effective of these sentences,
which had seemed to spring up of themselves.
He thought that he could dismiss
them from his mind when he had put them in
his drawer ; they really were too good to be
lost ; they really did seem to him amazingly
pungent and scathing. He would write them
out and think no more of them. Two hours
later John was writing rapidly. His pen seemed
to fly, and on the floor beside him was a growing
heap of foolscap pages. He had not a
moment for thinking what he should do with
his morning's work ; the sentences were formed
more quickly than he could write them, and he
was swept along with great excitement, feeling
that he was doing a thing superlatively well.

Meanwhile, Lady Gertrude lead had a
most cheerful interview with her cook, and
was bustling about upstairs with abundant
appreciation of the pleasures of life. She
had quickly repented of her conduct of the
day before, and had spent a most uncomfortable
evening, irritated by the lady friends
of the friendless window-cleaners, and by
visions of her poor husband in a dismal
home and with no dinner ordered. She
had expected sharp words when she came
home and expected them again in the
morning; but her husband had been kind.
She was very happy, and was convinced
that she had a husband of a generous and
noble nature.

CHAPTER XXII.

It was lucky for Lady Gertrude Maidment
that she had a hearty temperament and a
happy power of rebounding. She was very
much in love with her husband, and at
moments when all things smiled she felt the
same abundant belief in him. But her unquestioning
faith had become a mood of
moments ; she was too often fretful about
him, uneasy about what he would do or say
next. She had complained of him often to
her placid mother, and been angry with her
for not defending him warmly ; she had complained
even to her intimate friends, though
from no one of them would she accept the

slightest criticism of this conduct. She was
disappointed.

It was no new thing for Lady Gertrude to
be disappointed. She had enjoyed a thousand
disappointments ; but this was the most
bitter of all, and she got the least enjoyment
out of it. She had been so gloriously confident,
when she married John Maidment,
that the disappointments of life were at an
end. Many things had refused to adapt
themselves to her wishes when she was a
girl, and she had affirmed a thousand times
that nothing ever went right. But marriage
was to change all that. She was going to
marry a perfect husband, whom she adored.
She displayed him with the more ample pride,
because some people might dare to suppose
that she was making a poor marriage ; she
was half worshipper, half great discoverer.

VOL. II. G

She thought that she had discovered this
brilliant being outside her world ; she felt herself
a female Columbus. She had placed her
husband on a pedestal, and prepared to burn
incense before him in the presence of all
individuals of the Boucherett set. She had
intended without one moment's doubt to have
done with disappointments for life. But her
good intentions had gone the old way. As
in former days the important man would
refuse the invitation to dinner ; as the young
person of talent would show the basest
ingratitude ; as the venerable-seeming pauper
in the village would be overheard using the
least agreeable language ; so in these early
days of Lady Gertrude's married life did the
husband whom she had chosen refuse to be
in all respects the ideal husband whom she
had intended to exalt.

She was aggrieved more and more often.
She had meant to be his true helper, and he
would have none of her help in his life's
work. He answered shortly or in a bored
tone ; or he went away. He went away too
often. This was not the life-union of which
she had dreamed. Was she to be no more
than the occasional companion of his lighter
hours — she who had always been held so
clever — she who had been so often consulted
by wise men ? John seemed to take it as a
matter of course that she should have no
share in his serious work ; this made her
jump with aggravation. But there was something
below this, an irritating cause which
she would not drag to the light and look at,
and this was the growing consciousness that
her husband's love for hei was much less
than hers for him.

G 2

It must not be supposed that Lady Gertrude
blamed lier lord and did not blame herself.
She was accustomed to blame herself.
She had a high ideal of wifely duty. She
had always had high ideals, but she had
acquired long ago a comforting belief that
one of course fell short of high ideals. ' Of
course one must fall short,' she said to herself.
So she blamed herself for finding fault
with her husband, for her impatience and her
occasional fretfulness ; but she did not blame
herself much. It was very hard that her
married life would not run as she had meant
it to run ; it was part of the general aggravation
of things ; she was sure that other
women were not so tormented.

It was after luncheon, and Lady Gertrude
had ascended to her drawing-room in a
very virtuous state of mind. She bustled

about, getting rid of some superfluous vitality
and making yet another rearrangement of the
furniture, and then she seated herself on the
music-stool, which seemed a little overburdened
with her and her conscience, and
began to play and to sing not very inaccurately
with her big contralto voice.
This conscientious performance was interrupted
by the announcement and entry, as
of the sun god beaming, of Mr. Fisher. The
sight of Mr. Fisher reminded the lady of
something which she had taken to herself asa
grievance, and she bounced off the music-stool.
She was eager to welcome and to
scold her guest.

Oh, Mr. Fisher,' she cried, ' I have a most
dreadful bone to pick with you ! '

- ' Any bone,' said Mr. Fisher with ready
gallantry, ' which I may share with Lady

Gertrude Maidment will be a treat to me.
Better a bone with Lady Gertrude than a
stalled ox and other people therewith.'

He laid his hat on his heart before he
deposited it on the table, and smiled. He
had expressed much admiration in his time
for this opulent lady, whom he had admired
largely in her splendid home of former days.
He had taken with him to Boucherett the
very best butter, and had been introduced in
return (to carry on the same agricultural
metaphor) to some of the finest cheeses ; he
had tasted with gusto the rich compliments
with which he had regaled the daughter of
the House ; and he had been asked to meet and
to express his approval of many notable personages.
Boucherett had been often in the
smiling mouth of Mr. Fisher, and he now
gazed at its fairest flower with an air

of frank expectation of something unusually
good.

Lady Gertrude was fussing among the
reviews and pamphlets on the table, and she
presently arose in triumph with the new
number of her visitor's popular periodical.

You ought to be ashamed of yourself,'
she said, and Mr. Fisher pretended to hide his
face. 'It's a most disgraceful article,' she
continued less playfully. ' I can't imagine
how you can bring yourself to put such a
thing in your magazine.'

Dear, dear, dear ! What article in my
poor weekly has had the misfortune to offend
Lady Gertrude Maidment ? '

She held the book open before him and
said, ' You know perfectly well what I mean*.
What could I mean except this horrid attack
on Mr. Simpson ?

Mr. Fisher burst out laughing as if she
had been irresistibly humorous : he really
thought that she had made a joke.

'I am not laughing at all,' said the lady
emphatically ; ' it is a horrid article, horrid
and personal, and in the very worst taste. Of
course I do not agree with anything which
Mr. Simpson says, but that's no reason why I
should like to see him attacked in this disgraceful
way.'

By this time the editor was regarding her
with a very blank look. He was almost dismayed.


Who is this " Martin Johnson," ' asked
the lady with her rosy finger on the page,
who puts his name to such stuff?'
' Ah ! ' said Mr. Fisher, with his slyest and
his most deprecating air, ' ah ! ' and he shook
his head.

He was good-natured and he was really-very
sorry. He saw that it would be a
monstrous pity if a trifle were to disturb so
excellent and harmonious arrangement as
this Maidment marriage. He delighted inharmonious
arrangements ; he had been
warming himself at this successful alliance
of unusual ability with wealth and race and
beauty. Carefully and tenderly but soon
with growing warmth he began to defend the
unlucky article. He quoted the opinion of
Lord This, and Mr. That, and he ended by
saying that the paper had had an immense
success and that everybody was talking about
it.

But Lady Gertrude would not be converted.


I particularly dislike that sort of thing,'
she said. ' I can't understand why people are

allowed to attack a man's private life and
habits just because he happens to be in a
public position. It's the very thing which
people were always abusing in Americans
only of course nowadays nobody abuses
Americans for anything ; one is nothing unless
one is American.'

This seemed as if it would introduce
another grievance — a very little one — of
Lady Gertrude's, but Mr. Fisher thought it
wiser not to prolong the interview. ' Is Mr.
Maidment at home ? ' he asked, ' and can I see
him P '

Oh yes,' she said, and rang the bell and
told the servant to let Mr. Maidment know
that Mr. Fisher was there.

After a minute the servant returned and
said that Mr. Maidment had gone out.

Gone out ! ' cried Lady Gertrude sharply,

and almost before the door was shut she said
in an aggrieved tone to her visitor, ' I really
do think John might have let me know that
he was going out.'

Mr. Fisher could do nothing but smile
and look deprecating ; he felt that there were
dangerous undercurrents in this placid-seeming
marriage ; it was a great pity. ' Dear
lady,' he said after a little consideration,
dear lady, you must not be too hard on us.
Your standard is too high for mere men — and
pray don't be too hard on my poor contributor.
I do assure you that he is such a good fellow,
so high-toned, such a gentleman.'

The lady gave no answer but a contemptuous
jerk and snort. ' It's too provoking of
John,' she said ; ' it's always the way. Of
course you wanted to see him about something
important ? '

Oil no, no,' said Mr. Fisher, ' it doesn't
matter — doesn't matter in the least. I've no
doubt I shall find him.'

'Where?'

At Mrs. Lulham's.' It was not tactful,
and Mr. Fisher knew it as soon as the words
were out of his mouth ; he felt that it was an
unlucky day with him. ' I rather think he is
going there expecting to see me about something,'
he added lamely. ' Good-bye, dear
lady ; I must fly.' He pressed her hand,
smiled the greatest possible encouragement,
and hurried away. He raised his eyebrows
as he ran downstairs, and whistled when he
found himself safe in the street.

Lady Gertrude was hurt. Her husband
had slipped out and gone to Susan Lulham's.
She had no doubt about that, and no doubt
that he preferred the society of ' that intriguing

ridiculous little wretch' to her own. She
could not sit down and work, or play on the
piano. She could think of no comfort but in
making herself uncomfortable ; she looked
round for some annoying duty. She decided
■ to put her husband's den in order, foreseeing
that in doing something for him when he was
treating her so badly she would find a dismal
satisfaction. He might go to ' his rubbishy
widows,' but she would still do her duty as a
wife. She hurried down the stairs and shut
herself into John's little room.

A little later John Maidment, who had
been for an innocent stroll in the neighbouring
park, let himself into his house and opened
the door of his study. He stood still on the
threshold, for there was his wife. Lady Gertrude
had been sitting before his writing-table,
but she bounced up at his entrance, red and

rustling and angry. ' No ! don't come
near me ! ' she cried out ; ' don't come near
me!'

What's the matter? ' asked John.

You can ask what's the matter ? ' She
pushed with the point of her shoe a loose sheet
of paper which was lying on the floor, and
John stooping picked up a bit of the rough
draft of his ill-omened article. ' You wrote
that disgraceful thing,' she said ; ' you can't
deny it.'

I am not going to deny it.'

And you put a false name to it — oh ! the
disgrace ! the disgrace ! '

What ridiculous nonsense ! Did you never
even hear of a nom de plume ? '

Nom de fiddlestick ! It's most base and
cowardly, and '

Stop ! I can't expect you to understand
'

Oh ! ' she cried stamping her foot.

Will you be reasonable ? '

No.'

Then I will go away till you recover your
temper.'

Yes, that's right — go away — go back to
Mrs. Lulham — that's where you learn such
tricks. Go back to your mountebank ! '

John laughed, but the laugh was not
pleasant. He really was amazed at her violence.
He remembered that he had had some
doubts about writing the article, but they had
been such doubts as he was sure no other man
in practical life would have admitted for a
moment, and even he had dismissed them
easily. And now he, the conscientious man,
was attacked as if he had robbed a bank, and
by his own wife ! He was disgusted. He
looked at Gertrude, to whom grief was not

becoming ; her nose was red as well as her
eyes ; in his disgust he declared to himself
that she looked like a coarse and common
virago.

You talk egregious nonsense,' he said ;
you know nothing about it.'

'I know that you never cared for me —
I know that — I know that you must have
married me for my '

Whether she said the obnoxious word is
uncertain. John had turned white, and, as
she thrust herself between him and the door
as if she would compel him to hear her, he
pushed her not too gently on one side and
went out. He heard her angry cry as he
pulled the door to behind him, and snatching
his hat in the hall he made haste to get away
from his home. John was angry with Fate,
with his wife, a little angry with himself. He

admitted with some annoyance that, since his
wife was wholly and ridiculously in the wrong,
he ought to have been more tolerant of her
absurdity. He walked about till he grew
calm, and he made up his mind to punish
Gertrude a little for her nonsense and then to
forgive her loftily. The article was remarkably
clever ; it had some capital phrases ; he
was pleased with the little excitement which it
had made. But he knew very well that with
the next week's crop this telling paper would
begin to fade, and that with the next month's
abundant store it would be dead ; and he
smiled as he thought that long before that an
impulsive woman's anger would be in ashes,
and she be weeping for her wicked speeches.
She deserved a little punishment ; and so he
determined to dine at his club without telling
her of his intention, and to go home and

VOL. II. H

forgive her before midnight. If by chance a
sun should appear in London on the next
morning, it should not rise upon his wrath,
however righteous. Thus did John Maidment
venture to prophesy about a woman ; but,
clever young man though he was, he was not
on this occasion exactly right.

CHAPTEE XXIII.

John dined at his club and read the papers,
daily and weekly, until he thought that it was
time to go home and dry his wife's repentant
tears. He let himself into his hall, and thereon
the table he saw a little pile of letters and
on the top of them a note without a stamp.
With a shock of surprise, unpleasant as a sudden
pail of water, he recognised the large handwriting
of his wife. He tore the note open
and read it by the light in the passage. The
first words were enough to show that here
was no mood of repentance.

After having struck me,' she wrote — an

H 2

oath leapt from John's lips. Was not this
the most exasperating thing which had ever
happened to man ? That he, John Maidment,
should be accused of striking a woman !
What was the use of keeping oneself on a
higher level than other men, if such a thing
as this could happen to one? He marched
into his den, lighted two candles, and spread
the exasperating missive flat on the outside
of his blotting book. He would read it calmly
and quietly and then go upstairs and speak
very gravely indeed to his wife. In another
moment he was aware that he might go
upstairs, but would find no wife to profit by
his words of wisdom.

After having struck me,' she had
written, ' you can hardly be surprised that I
have gone to my own people. I make no
complaint. I make no concealment. I have

simply gone to my own people at Boiicherett.'
He dashed into the hall and picked up
the empty envelope. As he expected, he had
not broken any seal ; the note had been
stuck and very lightly ; it was likely enough
that every servant in the house had read it.
How like her ! She had no reticence — no
refinement — no care that this abominable
accusation should not be discussed in the
servants' hall. His mind was working at
double speed with the most painful and
perplexing consequences. By this time he
thought that his wife with her box and her
burden of grievances was at Boucherett, a
martyr, with all her sorrows displayed, or with
that elaborated appearance of concealment
which displays the most. He could see her
pink-eyed, inconsolable, with the air of having
done with life, and with a little enjoyment

in amazing her stolid mother. To-morrow it
would be talked about in the drawing-room,
the housekeeper's room, the servants' hall,
the harness-room, the village pothouse, and
the new coffee tavern. He declared to himself
with exceeding bitterness that for him it
might be no less than ruin. He cursed his
luck. What cruelty of Fortune that his
career should be spoilt at its outset by his
pushing past a woman with a little too much
impatience — and such a career! He had
never felt so certain of the future, which
would have been his but for this accident.
He felt as if the pearl of all the world had
been his and had slipped from his wet fingers
to the dark unmeasured sea. He had made a
capital start ; he was master of a fountain of
eloquence, which bubbled up as free and clear
as if it were one with the fountain of youth

itself; he had industry, ability, charm. He
had had character : character had been that
which distinguished him from other politicians,
of whom many had industry, all some measure
of ability, a few some personal charm. He
had known so well that his character was his
special recommendation — the lamp which he
must keep bright if he would dazzle the
eyes of men. He had impressed everybody
from his early boyhood by his earnestness ; it
was this which had given more than half
its effect to his eloquence. He had always
known this, but now it seemed all doubly
sure as he trembled lest he should lose it all.
A domestic scandal, a separation from his
wife at the very outset of their married life
it was enough to blast the most promising
career of the day. Fight as he might, and
speak as nobly as he could, the shadow would

not depart from his life. He declared to
himself that this trumpery misunderstanding
might be for him no less than ruin.

As he stood pale and silent by his writing-table,
he began mechanically to open the
letters which he had picked up from the hall
table with this fatal note. His mind was
busy with this wretched business, while he
glanced over a few bills, circulars, and notes
of no importance, and dropped them from his
limp fingers. The last of the pile was from
America, and recognising Paul's handwriting,
he felt, even in the midst of his annoying
thoughts, a faint curiosity. He tore open the
letter, and saw that Paul had written from
his ranch in Montana.

I have late news of your father,* John
read, ' from a trustworthy man. He has had
what may turn out a real stroke of luck, but

he is very far from well. As soon as my
mate comes back here, I shall start for
Leadville, but he won't be back for a month
and I can't leave the beasts before. Then
I shall be free to stay in Colorado till I have
put the affair straight for your father ; but
I want you, if you can, to come out and see
to him. From what I hear he ought to betaken
right away out of the place ; he is
doing no good there. Come, if you can, and
take him away to England and take care of
him, while I see to this mining affair of his.
K you can't come, send a travelling servant
dio has been off the beaten track and has his
wits about him and is not too old. But come
yourself if you can. If you start at once on
receipt of this, I can meet you at Pueblo, and
we can go up together. Wire if you come or
send substitute. Your way is by New York,

Chicago, C. B. and Q. and Acheron and
Topeka Railways, all plain sailing, and I
think you ought to come if you can.'

This was Paul's letter, and as John read
it, his mind began to work with new possibilities.
Was this the way of escape from his
troubles ? If the letter had come yesterday,
he knew that he would have been searching
for a courier with both youth and experience ;
but now it might be well that he himself
should go. The mere idea roused him from
his dull depression to his proper vitality, his
nervous energy. Should he go ? Should he
start at once ? He concentrated all his thinking
powers on this question. He saw at a glance
that it was an immense temptation, for it would
free him from the immediate and most annoying
necessity of trying to bring his wife back.
He abhorred the idea of going to Boucherett

in the morning, of interviews, of correspondence,
of having to defend his conduct, which
needed no defence. He was tempted to start
for Leadville instead of Boucherett ; but since
he realised the strength of the temptation, he
was determined not to yield to it until he was
sure that it would be the best possible means
of strengthening his position in the future.
He pressed his head between his hands and
sat thinking. Would it not be well for him
to start at once for the Eocky Mountains ? If
he went he could leave behind him a clear
statement of the reason of his going — a reason
which gave a full and admirable explanation
of his temporary separation from his wife.
He would take care that it should be stated,
both publicly and privately, that urgent private
affairs had summoned him to America.
He would leave a better and more circumstantial

story, which was moreover true,
with people who were sure not to keep it to
themselves. It should be freely mentioned
that he had been called to his father, and had
set out with striking haste to the heart of the
Rocky Mountains. If there were also fickle
rumours of possible wealth and possible peril,
they would add to the picturesqueness of the
story, and make it float more easily and in a
wider circle. His quick mind began to foresee
interested faces, and to compose newspaper
paragraphs.

On the other hand, John knew that there
would be whispers, idle or malignant or both.
It was certain that tongues would wag with
rumours of a quarrel between himself and his
wife. But it was already too late to prevent
this. Even if he brought her home tomorrow,
there would be some nods full of meaning,

some babbling over teacups ; and it was by no
means certain that he would succeed in bringing
her home tomorrow. Gossip there must
be, and, if he did not go away, the tale of
their quarrel would have no tale to contradict
it. If he did go, the whisper of one would be
met by the loud denial of another, who knew
for a fact that John Maidment had been called
to America on urgent private affairs (probably
involving a great increase of wealth),
and that Lady Gertrude had gone, as was
natural, to her own people, and would stay
with them till he returned.

He wondered if he dared to trust his wife
to be decently reticent. If she spent the
next few weeks with her people, he knew that
she would wear too often an injured air, and
would allow herself too often a plaintive
"remark or a sigh full of meaning. But he

thought that she would not go beyond this in
her intercourse with the outer world, and
that she would accept his story and let it
pass as a full explanation of her separation
from him. He counted on the reaction after
this bold step which she had taken ; he thought
that she would be rather frightened, and that,
when she learned that he was going away for
an indefinite time to face difficulties, perhaps
dangers, she would be rather softened too.
Besides, he would leave influences to work
upon her. When he had sat thinking for
some time, he got up with the determination
of going to Liverpool in the morning, and, if
possible, of sailing on the next day.

John rang his bell softly, uncertain if his
servant were still awake. He was anxious
about this brief interview, and he stood so
that he could see the man's face lighted by his

two candles. After a few minutes the man
appeared in the doorway, and John told him
that he had been called to America and that
Lady Gertrude would remain at Boucher sett
till his return in a few weeks. He gave him
a few commonplace directions, told him that
he must pack in the morning, and sent him
to bed. Looking closely at the man's face, he
was sure that he received his story with perfect
faith, and that he at least had not read
Lady Gertrude's note. This seemed a good
omen, and his spirits rose. He seated himself
at his table and began to write. His first
letter was to Mr. Fisher, who for his sake
would see that some paragraphs were inserted
in certain papers with which this prosperous
editor had considerable influence. He was
very frank in tone with Mr. Fisher. He told
him that his father's affairs were taking him to

Colorado, and that, as a public man, he wished
the public to have a chance of knowing why
he went and whither he was going. At the
end he mentioned that his wife had gone to
Boucherett and would probably stay there till
he returned, and he added a playful postscript.
To Basil Gustard, who would be immensely
flattered by the attention, John
wrote a more picturesque account of the
summons which he had received, and of the
adventurous journey which he was about to
make ; and he playfully advised him to refer
to it in the society paper to which he was a
frequent contributor. Then John dashed off
the same thing in a chivalrous note to Mrs.
Lulham, who sat at the centre of so great a
web of rumours ; and finally, he enclosed a
paragraph, carefully prepared by himself, to
the editor of a widely-circulated daily paper,

who had shown a disposition to be friendly.
He begged this useful acquaintance to insert
his paragraph at the first opportunity, as he
was called away so suddenly that he had not
time to inform his friends, nor any person
who might expect to consult with him on any
public matter.

When these letters had been written with
as much ease as propriety, John turned his
attention to three of a different character.
With ready pen he dashed off a note to
Colonel Brent ; and he was surprised, as he
wrote, to find how pleased he was with the
thought that the Colonel would approve of
his prompt start ; that Paul would be glad of
his coming so quickly in answer to his appeal ;
that all the Brents would like him better for
this decision. His next task gave him more
trouble. He wrote to Mr. Eandall, and told

VOL. II. I

him plainly that he and his wife had had a
difference of opinion ; that she had misunderstood
him, and had started for a visit to
Boucherett before he had had a chance of
convincing her that she had misunderstood
him. He told him that news of the utmost
importance about his father had come, as
soon as his wife had gone ; and that he was
obliged to start for America at once, without
even seeing Lady Gertrude. In these perplexing
circumstances he appealed to Mr.
Eandall to use his great influence nth the
family at Boucherett, for their sake even
more than for his own, to let no rumour
of any disagreement get abroad before his
return, which would be very soon. He
pointed out that until his return the separation
needed no explanation ; and he ended by
assuring? Mr. Randall that the dispute was

about a trifle, and that he trusted to his tact
and ability, and friendship for his wife's
family, as he would trust no qualities
of any other man. He was very careful
in writing this letter, and, when it was finished,
he was content with it. Another, a
more impetuous version, he wrote to Lady
Whimley.

I hope,' he wrote at the end of it, ' that
Gertrude will some day learn that, whatever
my faults may be, I am incapable of rudeness
to a woman. I will not write of my wretched
position — of my being obliged to start on this
wild journey, leaving this cloud above my
home. I prefer to look to the future, and to
hope that all will yet be well.' He felt that
he was behaving well, and, as much of the
night had now gone, he went upstairs, and
in a short time was wrapped in a deep sleep.

1 2

CHAPTEE Xxii.

The great steamer drove across the vast plain
of the Atlantic, bearing John Maidment and
his fortunes. At the first throb of the screw
he felt relief; he was away on his journey,
and neither letters nor telegrams could reach
him for ten days to come. The winds were
light, and scarce a qualm interfered with his
placid mood ; he had no acquaintance onboard,
and he could walk the deck or sit
wrapped in his well-lined ulster considering in
solitude his position and himself. If it sometimes
occurred to him to doubt the excellence
of some thing which he had done, he put the

doubt aside with ease. It seemed as if he
had attained that happy stage in which it is
sufficient answer to the reviewing conscience
to say, ' It cannot have been wrong, for it was
I who did it,' and to say this not with pain
and grief of hot contention, but with the calm
of full belief. Wrapped in his long overcoat
and his ample virtue, John dismissed the occasional
doubts of his conduct in this or that
matter, confident that, had the thing not been
just and right, he would not have done it.

As John reviewed the arrangements which
he had made before starting, he could see
little to criticise. He had set the little
engines going which would best do his work,
and he believed more fully that all must come
right between his wife and him. He knew
that she would suffer, as she deserved to
suffer ; that she would beg for pardon, as it

was her duty to beg. Now, when he was
further from the crisis which had startled
him, he counted with much less doubt on her
love for him. Already she was feeling pangs
of remorse ; for she knew that her conduct
had sent her husband afar on his lonely
journey Without one word from her of kindness
or farewell. She would be eager to
make any atonement, and would accept with
zeal the story Which he had left as an explanation
of their separation. He felt that she
was already looking forward, though she probably
had not yet confessed it, to their next
meeting. He trusted her love.

But John did not encourage his thoughts
to look backward ; he liked to send them
flying before the hurrying vessel, travelling
without pause by sea and land, where he
without pause would follow them. He felt a

lively curiosity about his father, an eagerness
to see him. The image which he had cherished
as a boy, and which had faded not a little
in the full days of his first contact with the
world, leapt up bright and vivid. He recalled
and gazed upon the vision of the fine
fair face with the silky moustache ; he could
almost hear again the light gay laugh ; he
remembered that he had always known that
his father was a charming man. He reminded
himself that he would find this brilliant young
person a man of more than fifty years, and,
if Paul were right, with health somewhat
damaged ; but the delicate lines, which
showed the passage of time and work perhaps
too hard for so fine a being, took nothing
from the charm. He looked forward to
adopting this delightful parent ; to bringing
him to England and showing him to his

friends with pride. He recognised too the
convenient fact that Colonel Brent would beat
all times glad of his old friend's presence,
and that, when it was better for all parties
that they should be only two at home,
Wilfred Maidment would live with his old
admiring Philip. If this stroke of luck, of
which Paul wrote, should with former earnings
give a small income to the most pleasing
of unknown fathers, then indeed all difficulties
would disappear. But John would not
allow his thoughts to dwell on this possibility ;
he Alas quite ready to be generous to his
father, and since his marriage he was able to
be generous with a due regard to moderation
and to the interests of his wife.

So John Maidment, easily thinking and imbibing
the salt air, was borne on a prosperous
voyage across the broad Atlantic, and with no

rest passed from sea to land and so still westward
in the cars. New York was to him no
more than a great harbour ; a half-built bridge
swung high in the air like the abandoned
plaything of a giant ; docks and warehouses
and straight streets — all seeming clean and
clear, with smoke which did not brood and
choke the city but went straight up and was
lost in the cool far-off blue. At Chicago he
caught a glimpse of what seemed a small city of
piled logs, and in another part vast gaunt buildings
for the storage of the golden grain. Then
away he went again, carried steadily westward
day and night — across the broad swift stream
of the Mississippi ; through patches of charred
stumps ; through regions of Indian corn ;
through miles and miles of growing wheat ;
with scarcely a man to be seen, and only here
and there in the great solitude a white-painted

wooden house, which seemed not to have been
built into the soil, but to have been set ready-made
thereon by the careful fingers of a child.
Then, when it had begun to seem the natural
state of man to live his life upon a moving
train, John passed from fertile lands to
barren plain. He was beginning to suffer
from restlessness, and he walked more often
through the cars and stood on the wooden
platform at the back of the train, finding a
strange fascination in the two straight lines
stretched, as it seemed, across half a world
without a break and without a curve.
Alone and conversing only with himself he
was impressed more and more deeply by the
immensity. Fresh from his crowded England
he thought that here was room for superfluous
millions ; and over the wide-reaching land a
wider heaven seemed to spread by day its

cloudless blue, by night its myriads of more
piercing stars.

Perhaps John had had enough of this
journeying on and on, as if he were to go on
for ever ; perhaps, though he slept as well onboard
the train as on board the boat, he was
beginning to suffer from the want of absolute
rest. It is certain that he gave a sigh of relief
when the cars stopped at Pueblo, and that he
looked out with lively interest to see if Paul
were there. He was disappointed, for no Paul
was there, but, as he stood looking about him,
a tall powerful man with a red beard and a
watchful eye asked him if he were Mr. Maid-men
t, and without further words offered him
a letter.

This business of your father's,' Paul had
written, ' seems so pressing that I go on to
Leadville at once by shortest route. My

friend Hall takes his buggy to Leadville over
the Western Pass, which is just open, and he
will take you with him.'

John, who had been frowning over this
note, looked up with a smile, and said, ' Mr.
Hall P ' and the big man, who had been
watching him, nodded rather shyly. He had
been waiting to see if the Englishman was
going to be friendly or 'to put on frills.'
John was quick enough to feel that here in
Colorado there was small wisdom in giving
oneself airs of superiority. This gigantic
owner of the buggy was by this ownership a
better man than ^ he ; he appealed to him
with an engaging air of helplessness to convey
him as soon as possible to his friend Paul
Brent. It was arranged that they should
sleep that night at Colorado Springs, and start
early on the next day for Leadville. The

way through the canon of the Arkansas
river, by which Paul had gone, was decidedly
shorter; but John, though he chafed a
little at the thing being settled for him, was
glad that he had not to face the Eocky Mountains
for the first time alone. Besides, since
Paul was already at work on his father's
affairs, the delay of a day or two in his own
arrival would do no harm. He went to bed
in a bare room which opened straight on to
the plain, and slept sound in a stationary bed
and in the pure keen air of Colorado.

John woke early, for the room was full of
clear light ; and, when he opened his door,
there were snow-capped peaks of the famous
Eocky Mountains standing all of a row,
glittering like mounds of salt and seeming
so near that they tempted his quick blood
to climb one before breakfast. It was lucky

that he resisted the temptation ; for, though
his train ascending imperceptibly from the
far-off Mississippi had combed so high that
John stared at these gleaming mountain-tops
from a height of some six thousand feet
above the sea, the nearest of the peaks was
a long and a hard day's journey. But John
was not busying himself with calculations of
height nor with the effect on distance of that
rare fine air. He only felt the new elixir
in his blood, and breathed in a new vigour
and a keener longing to be off. He was restless
till the home-made buggy had appeared
with its two sound plain-headed long-tailed
horses, and till he was on his way with
Mr. Sam Hall beside him and his portmanteau
tied on behind them with a strong much-twisted
rope. Up the long pass they went,
slowly rising, meeting never a soul, listening

VOL. II. K

to the little stream which hurried down under
tangle of undergrowth and shade of well-grown
fir-trees. The only sign that this was a way of
men were the empty meat-tins which shone in
an unbroken line by the roadside ; the only
live creatures to be seen were the little striped
chipmunks darting under the fallen trunks, or
the blunt-nosed prairie dogs who sat up and
stared solemnly at them before they turned
upside down into their homes. John was
almost intoxicated by the wonderful air,
which seemed as if no man had been thereto
breathe it since the golden age. He was so
Hvely that he could not sit still, but jumped
from the waggon and walked upward, humming
fragments of tunes and feeling as if,
were he to press his two feet hard upon the
track, he might spring from the earth and
float upward to the amazement of science.

When he began to fear that he might seem
unsociable, he dimmed again to his seat and
talked to his companion.

Mr. Sam Hall, who was by this time
almost convinced that he need not be on his
guard against patronage, allowed himself to
talk more easily. He answered John's questions,
and even asked him a few in turn of
a highly personal nature. He asked John
where he was born and what he did for a
living ; and, when the Englishman announced
that he was a politician, he turned a humorous
eye on him as if he expected an apology
for so equivocal a profession. John laughed
as he answered the slow questions of his
mighty companion, and was glad to feel that
his answers gave him the right of asking
questions in turn. He was eager to know
about the profits in cattle, the profits in corn,

the life on the plans, the life in the mountains
; and he soon found that Mr. Sam Hall
had had a large experience and had done
pretty well in several ways. Mr. Hall, who
lead gone West as a boy from a village of
Massachusetts, and whose form and voice
had both been mellowed by long absence
from the east winds of the New England
coast, was a more important person than
John had gathered from the first sight of his
dull gigantic boots and of the old flannel
shirt which was barely visible above his coat
collar.

The pleasant chat by the way of these
new comrades was interrupted by a small
incident, which gave to the young Englishman
a moment's shock. A prairie dog had
sat up to stare, as so many of his race had
stared already, at the approaching vehicle,

and in an instant he was dead, and John saw
Mr. Hall returning his revolver to its place
under his coat-tails.

Why did you do that ? ' cried John
sharply ; he had started at this sudden shot ;
he was vexed at the unnecessary slaughter of
this innocent-faced little beast.

I kind o' felt like it,' said the other after
a minute's consideration. • I guess there are
quite a number left,' he added presently.
But John was still annoyed as if by a jarring
note in the high-pitched harmony of that exciting
morning. His companion, with his air
of a respectable small farmer, was so unlike
the fancy pictures of the desperadoes of the
Eocky Mountains, that it had not even
occurred to him that there was a pistol of
any kind concealed by those ample peaceful
coat-tails. Not till they had descended

from their chariot and had eaten their frugal
meal of canned meat and bread by the side
of the little clear stream which hurried
through the underwood, did John recover his
Sympathy with his guide ; but then, as he lay
at length and listened to the stream, which
prattled English like the brooks thousands of
miles away, he felt friendly again, and, as he
passed his flask of whisky to his mate, he
smiled as if he were offering his friendship
too. Thereupon another surprise was his, for
Sam Hall shook his head, and being pressed
announced deliberately that nothing under
the bite of a rattlesnake would induce him to
touch whisky. Sitting very straight with his
great legs straight before him, he declared
to John, who observed him with keen interest,
that there was no safety for the man who
came West but total abstinence. Weary

days and lonely evenings had changed many
moderate men, whom he had known, into
confirmed drunkards. He spoke gravely,
though he used some picturesque and peculiar
phrases ; and, when he had ended, he
emptied his mug of water and got up and
shook himself, and went to see if his horses
had fed properly.

It was evening when the travellers came
out of the long pass, up which they had been
climbing since morning, and entered a widening
plain. To John it seemed as if they had
been carried far away into some English
park. There were wide grassy lawns, softly
sloping mounds, and clumps of trees which
looked as if they must have been placed by
the cunning of man for beauty's sake. Rolling
slowly along on a half-seen track, they saw
away on the right a reddish glow, and turning

thither they presently came to a rough stonewall,
and scarcely higher than the wall a
rough stone house. Inside the enclosure
besides this one-storeyed house there were
sheds for horses and cattle and a sty for pigs.
The contrast between this abode and the vast
beautiful park, which to his English eyes was
the fit surrounding of a palace, made John
smile, but even as he smiled he felt how grim
it was — this gray stone house squatting low
in the fast-gathering shadows.

CHAPTEE XXV.

The owner of the ranch was a stood York-sherman,
who made the travellers welcome for
the night with no apology for the roughness of
his home or the coarseness of his fare. In the
mountains it was a matter of course that any
passer-by should have his share of food and
a place for his blanket. More than this the
Yorkshireman's dwelling-place did not afford ;
there was as little luxury within as beauty without.
There were but three rooms, and a sort
of den behind in which cooking was done ;
and when John passed through the front door
into the centre room he was struck by its

bareness. A lons^ roiicrh deal table stood on
the bare floor ; one form of like kind was in
its place by the table, but one end of the
other had been dragged across to the corner
of the fii-e, and on it three men Averse sitting,
tired, silent, and smoking. The fire-light
shone red, but rather sullen, on the bent
figures of the smokers, their coarse worn
clothes and long dirty boots ; no one of the
three made a movement when the strangers
followed their host out of the darkness and
he shut the door behind them. On either side
of this central room a doorway with no door
led into a room of the same size and shape,
but these were only two caverns of darkness
to John as he glanced curiously at them. It
seemed strange to him that it was he who
was there ; he felt a faint excitement at this
sudden entry of himself, the remarkable child

of a complicated civilisation, into a state of
life so primitive ; he began to describe it to
himself in picturesque words. It was evident
that these slouching cowboys by the fire were
smoking after their evening meal ; for presently
from his lair in the rear emerged the tall rough-headed
youth, who was so little like a cook,
bearing a portion of steak and a pot of coffee for
the travellers, who were to sup alone. John
had been made hungry by the keen mountain
air, and succeeded in eating some of the tough
meat without vegetables and in drinking the
black coffee without milk, while the massive
jaws of Sam Hall vanquished the rest of this
Spartan meal without an effort.

When John had made an end of this fine
exercise of mastication he looked about him ;
and by the light of the solitary candle in the
iron candlestick, which the cook had brought

in with their supper, he saw a book at the
further end of the table, a book which was
the library of the ranch. He fetched this
variable work, and bringing it nearer to the
candle began to turn over the leaves. It was
such a book as his Yorkshire host was likely to
know well ; it was full of coloured prints of
sporting scenes, and John was going through
them slowly with half-attentive eye, when he
was aroused by the voice of the Yorkshireman
saying, with the first laugh which he had heard
that evening, ' So you've slept it off, have you? '
John looked up and saw opposite to him,
in the empty doorway, a man who compelled
his attention. It was no strength in this newcomer
which exercised compulsion: he was
like weakness made man. Unlike Sam Hall and
unlike these men at the ranch, he had made a
feeble effort at the picturesque, as if at sometime

he bad thought it right to dress the part
of the wild ranger of the Eocky Mountains.
His flannel slit, soiled and stained, was of a
deep red colour ; about his shrivelled waist
was a cartridge-belt half full of cartridges :
]his hat, in which he seemed to have been
sleeping, had a width and flexibility of brim
which might have been pulled into a becoming
shape. But he had the look of one who
had slept long in his clothes, and his trousers,
which had half slipped from his belt, were
flopping on his shapeless wry-heeled shoes.
He stood swaying slightly in the doorway,
and paid no attention to his host's question
nor to the group of cattle-men by the fire.

One of these took his pipe from his mouth,
and with a slow drawling voice said, ' Took,
I guess this Englishman can tell you something
of the other cooks.'

The speaker nodded sideways at John, at
whom the new-comer seemed to be staring,
though the shadow of his broad-brimmed hat
made it impossible to see his eyes. The other
cowboys chuckled, and the Yorkshireman said
to John, ' They call him " the took," because
he kept such high-toned company at home.
The boys stand him drinks, and he tells them
stories of the aristocracy.'

John looked at this poor devil with a
cold contempt. He remembered what Sam
Hall had told him by the way of the dangers
of drinking in these wilds; if this man
opposite had been really a gentleman, there
was no need to look further for an example.

Presently the took started himself from
his doorway and came towards the table.
Steadying himself opposite John, he plucked
off his hat and allowed his head to drop;

perhaps he meant to greet him with a bow.
His face thus exposed to the candlelight was
the face of a fair man, and therefore more
aggressively dirty than the face of a dark
man could be. The hair of his head was
thin and yellow-gray ; his beard was grayish-yellow,
thin and straggling ; and while one
end of his moustache drooped with a hopeless
air, the other had been pulled out to
a point as if by some old nervous habit of
the slender grimy fingers. His cheeks were
pale and his thin nose rather red, and he
looked at John affectionately with a pair of
pale-blue bloodshot eyes. Altogether the
took was at his lowest level of appearance ;
and yet John felt sure that this disreputable
loafer had been born and brought up as a
gentleman. He looked round for Sam Hall,
as if he would acknowledge the soundness of

his statement on drink, but Mr. Hall had
gone out to look after his horses.

The owner of the ranch had fallen
asleep with his head on the table, and the
men by the fire seeing that no fun was to
be got from the took on that evening, had
sunk back again to their silence and their
smoking. John saw with amusement and
vexation that he was probably condemned
to a talk with this bibulous individual, who
seemed to regard him with interest. The
took sighed, and then, as his eyes fell from
John's face to the book which he was
reading, he smiled again. ' All, what fun it
was ! ' he said at the sight of the print full
of red coats, and he gave a feeble imitation
of a view holloa which ended in a hiccough.
Jerked into a momentary gravity by this
trifling accident he said with much self-satisfaction,

'I knew 3^011 were English the
moment I saw you. I knew it by clothes and
things ; it's unmistakable.' He seemed to
feel surprise at his rapid conquest of his
last word ; he tried to repeat it, failed, and
laughed. Then he turned himself half round,
and said, ' This coat was made in England —
some time ago. I suppose it's awfully old-fashioned
by this time.' He seemed anxious
for John's verdict, and regarded him with a
conciliating, an almost beseeching eye.

John looked at the greasy old coat,
which was thrown back from the red flannel
shirt, and said that it was a very good coat.

One gets so rusty, you know, in these
infernal mountains,' said the took piteously;
and after a moment he added, looking sideways
and smiling, as if he were begging
for merciful consideration, ' I suppose they

YOL. II. L

wouldn't look at me now in any decent
club

It was not necessarily a question, and
John hesitated. He did not like to go on
lying, and he did not like to hurt the poor
man's feelings ; he might have said with
perfect truth that the took, if he entered
any sort of club, was sure to be looked at.
Hesitating, he looked across the table at the
shrunken soaked figure, and saw that a large
tear was trickling down the thin red nose.
His heart smote him ; he wished that he
could be more friendly, but, though he felt
pity, the pity was no stronger than the
contempt. To this young man it seemed
almost incredible that a gentleman, with the
start which birth and education give, should
run down to this. The took was looking at
him furtively, piteously, with a watery smile.

and, when John had brought out some
encouraging words, he seemed on a sudden
to take heart of grace. With a fatuous leer
and a brief straightening of the figure he
said, ' They used to look at me — everywhere.'
He pulled out the stiffer end of his moustache
to a finer point, and assumed a vanquishing
air, and then with his head on one side,
coaxing, he asked, ' Don't the fellows ever
speak of me ? Haven't you heard em speak
of me ? '

I haven't the pleasure of knowing your
name,' said John smiling.

You don't know my name ? ' said the
other, laughing feebly. * My name is Maidment
— Wilfred Maidment.'

John did not cry out. After a minute
he shut his eyes, feeling a deadly sickness,
and he presently moved his arms on the

L 2

table as if he would assure himself that he
were not dreaming nor paralysed. Then he
was seized by the strong desire to get
away — to be alone and to think. He rose so
quickly that he stumbled, and striking the
iron candlestick sent the light rolling on the
floor. ' I beg your pardon,' he cried out,
and his voice sounded strange in his ears,
and hurrying to the door he pulled it open
and went out into the night. He went
beyond the wall, and then in the darkness
he sat down upon the ground and pressed
his two hands to his forehead, as if he would
force his sickened brain to work. There
he sat motionless till he was almost benumbed
; and then the sudden fear of being
ill made him stumble to his feet. The idea
of being kept in this place by illness was
terrible. He must go back to the house,

or his absence would make the people
wonder and questions would be asked about
him. If they began to question Sam Hall,
what might not be said? If he but spoke
the word ' Maidment ! ' what mischief
words might do ! He was half sick with
fear when he thought that even now
they might be talking. He was not afraid
of being recognised. Though he had
knocked over the candle in obedience to
the instinct of self-preservation, he assured
himself that he need have no fear of recognition
; and yet no assurance could prevent
the quivering of his nerves.

John stood in the darkness forcing his
courage to the moving point. ' He will
be asleep now,' he said to himself ; ' surely
he will be asleep now.' He forced his feet
to take him to the door, and after listening

for a moment lie pushed the door softly
open and went in.

The big fire was still burning red, but there
was nobody in the room. John glanced
with apprehension at the doorway in which
the took had first appeared ; it was dark,
and from within came the deep breathing
of sleeping men. John guessed who was
sleeping there among these men, and turned
to the opposite doorway, from which a pale
licht was still shining. He looked into the
room and anxiously tried to see who were
there. It was no easy job. Rude shelves
were fitted low down against the wall, and
on them lay the Yorkshireman and a couple
of cow-boys, each rolled in his big blanket.
One of the boys had a lighted candle in
his rough berth, and was reading an old newspaper
which Sam Hall had brought in his

capacious pocket. It was by the light of
this smoky flame, which needed snuffing,
that John peered at the sleepers. On the
bare floor two mattresses had been thrown
down, and on one of them two more men
were lying. Though each was rolled in his
blanket, John was sure that neither was
s%ht enough for the form which he feared
to see. On the other mattress, which was
almost at his feet, the vast bulk of Mr. Hall
was stretched, and John perceived that
something less than half of the uninviting
couch was left for him. He looked round
once more, but could make out nothing
else but a couple of coloured prints from
an old number of 'The Illustrated London
News,' which one of the men had stuck
above his sleeping-shelf; these were the only
decoration of the house. He slipped off his

coat and laid himself softly down on his
dusty resting-place, disturbing no one of the
weary dogs which lay and slept upon the
floor among the weary men.

Presently the literary cowboy blew out
his guttering candle, and there was no light
in the place but a faint red reflection from
the fire in the central room. John lay and
watched this dull illumination which slowly
died. He could not turn over without
touching his large neighbour ; and lying thereupon
the unwept floor among the men and
dogs, he felt all his sensitive skin creep with
strange sensations ; but neither want of room
nor restlessness of body kept sleep from
John Maidment's eyes. He had rolled up
his coat for a pillow, but, had that pillow
been the lace-edged comfort of the most
luxurious of luxurious youths, he would not

have slept that night. He lay and told
himself that the night must end at last ; he
could not help thinking, and to no purpose —
thinking in vain he lay expectant of the tardy
dawn.

At the first faint streak of light John rose,
and in moving took care to wake his mate,
who, accustomed to rise as soon as his eyes
were open, got up, yawned mightily, and went
again to his horses. John found a tin basin
by the pump in the yard, and plunged his
hot head into it, and felt better for a time.
But the minutes were leaden-footed. He
saw Sam Hall lead out his beasts, and he
thought that the harnessing would never
be finished. He went back to the house, and
found the cowboys stirring, pulling on boots,
taking their turns at the pump, swallowing
quick breakfasts ; and all the time — the

dragging, wretched time — he kept his eyes,
which ached with sleeplessness, on that empty-doorway,
in which he feared to see that man.
He thought that Hall would never have
finished his hasty meal ; the few words of
farewell which their host uttered seemed
endless, and his comments on their team
loud as a trumpet. The noise of the horses
at the door was enough to awaken the dead ;
and all the time he was fearful of showing
his impatience, which seemed always ready
to break into a cry.

At last they could start; and then in the
last minute John could not help stepping to
the doorway, which had been the centre of
his fears, and giving one glance into the room.
Almost at his feet, stretched on a dusty mattress,
lay the man, heavily sleeping. He was
woful lean and paled in the clear pitiless

light ; this fallen jaw made his cheeks seem
hollow as those of one starved. A great sob
broke from John before he was aware, and
terrified again, lest this sound should wake
the sleeper, he turned and hurried away.

CHAPTEE Xxvi.

'I GUESS you are pretty sick,' said Mr. Sam
Hall, who had turned his open inquiring eye
on his companion three or four times before he
spoke. John had sat silent behind the patient
horses, who had subsided from a shambling
trot to the walk at which they accomplished
their day-long journeys. He could think of
nothing yet but of the distance, growing
each moment greater, which separated him
from the ranch ; and to the clear-seeing eye
of his mate he looked haggard. Mr. Hall's
comment on his appearance made him start,
and made him uncomfortable ; the observant

eye made him nervous. He jumped from the
slow-moving waggon, and said that he should
be better for walking.

John tramped forward through a somewhat
desolate land. They were now some
nine or ten thousand feet above the level of
the sea, but they had entered a flat plain, one
of the Eocky Mountain Parks, and all day
long their track lay through miles of yellow
grass. It was a sullen region, with nothing
to arouse the mind from brooding thoughts.
John wanted to think, but he was dull and
stupid, and he had trudged along for sometime
before he began to think to any purpose.
Little by little the keen exciting air and the
steady movement, which stirred his blood, set
his mind a-working with more life. He
raised his head and turned and looked away
behind him. They had left the ranch miles

away ; there was no figure of a man upon the
track. He knew that there was no chance of
his being followed, and yet he could not help
a feeling of relief when he saw the great bare
plain. He was away ; he had gained time ;
he could think. He knew that he must think
now, for he must decide what he should do
before he met Paul. Had he not decided
already? Could there be any doubt? He
asked himself the question, and cried out that
there could be no doubt, as if from his inmost
soul. It was impossible to take that man to
England — to show such a man to the world
as the father of John Maidment. And he
had meant to be so proud of his father !
What an unlucky man he was ! He pitied
himself. What had he done that at the crisis
of his career he should find this drag-chain
about his feet ? It was the very moment for

pressing forward, and he was weighted with
lead. Perhaps he should not be free for years
to come ; perhaps his career was ruined.
Fortune with the finest irony had given him
the golden mouth and the subtle brain, and
had brought him all these thousands of miles
to meet paralysis. He clenched his fists till
he felt his nails in his palms ; he looked after
the buggy with hatred of this Hall who had
brought him by this route. Had he gone
by the shorter way, through the canon of
Arkansas, he would not have met the man —
he might never have met him. But he had
met him, and now he must decide. It was
clear that he could not take him to England.
Nobody could ask that. He imagined himself
presenting him at Boucherett. Whatever else
he decided, he had decided at least that the
man must be left in the Eocky Mountains.

And it was better for the man himself to
be left in the mountains. With this thought
came the first comforting glow to the sickened
heart of John Maidment. It would be cruel
to take this poor man into a world for which
he had become so woful unfit. For his own
sake he must be allowed to remain where he
was. For his own sake too it were well that
he should never know that he had seen his
son. John remembered his pitiful questions
about coats and clubs, and feared his foolish
vain regrets, his timid longings for a vanished
London life. He said to himself with decision
that this poor fellow must never know that
he had met him. Nobody need know that
they had met : his mere duty was silence.

And now John's plans began to take
shape more readily. On the evening of the
next day he would meet Paul in Leadville.

If Paul did not know where Wilfred Maidment
was, John would tell him that he could
not wait, that he must get back to the railway
by the shortest route, and so to England ; he
would tell him so much of his disagreement
with his wife as would explain the necessary
shortness of his visit. He would leave
everything to Paul ; the arrangements for the
comfort of his father, when he had found him
as of course he would find him ; the arrangement
of this mining business, whatever it
might turn out to be. Only one thing he would
take care to impress upon him — he must not
send or bring his father to England till he had
written to him and heard from him. Once in
England and alone John trusted to his logic
and his eloquence, to the wise exhaustive
letter which he would write, to convince Paul
that, whatever else was settled, this poor
VOL. II. M

unhappy man must remain in the mountains.
If he found that Paul already knew where
Wilfred Maidraent was, John foresaw with
annoyance that he must persuade his friend
there and then that the one utterly unwise
course — the impossible course — was to take
his father with him to England. Of course it
was impossible ; but he felt a sudden anger
against Paul as he thought that it might be
hard to convince him of the impossibility. He
foresaw with keen annoyance that he might
have to dash himself again, a sensitive Hve
being, against these stony Brents ; it was hard
that his lot had been cast among these pigheaded
one-idea people.

But John was growing more hopeful now
with every stride. He decided that Paul
would have been so busy with Wilfred Maidment's
business, which had called him so imperatively

to Leadville, that he would not yet
have found time to hunt for the man himself ;
and so he, John, would get away to England,
and get away alone, and would take good
care that his father should not follow him.
That was the one thing necessary, the one
thing absolutely good for all parties. If this
stroke of luck should be a real stroke of luck,
the poor broken man would command all the
comforts, even all the luxuries, which Colorado
can afford. If the affair should be a
disappointment, John promised himself that
he would send money from England — money
enough to secure for the unfortunate gentleman
the sort of life which was most suitable
for him. His imagination began to picture
Wilfred Maidment as the lodger with some
excellent family in Colorado Springs, carefully
tended, kept clean and sweet, perhaps rem



formed. His imagination worked most nimbly
at this labour of love, and there was the old
man in the easiest chair, the centre of most
loving watchfulness, nourished by the finest
air in the world, and spending his last days
with every comfort which money could procure,
and with the best of comforts, rest. To
rob him of this, to transplant him to an
atmosphere for which he had become wholly
unfit, would be mere madness. John was
certain of this.

At the mid-day halt Sam Hall saw that
his companion was better, and, observing that
he ate with a fine appetite, he dismissed all
anxiety and himself ate with a finer. In the
afternoon they sat sociably again side by side
and talked of Indians and rattlesnakes and
other unpleasant creatures, which Mr. Hall
seemed to have arranged in one class ; and so

journeying they came in the evening to a sort
of large packing-case, unpainted and im-polished,
which had been set up for the
accommodation of travellers at the foot of the
Western Pass.

In this bare deal hostelry they supped on
the hash of the country, and a little later
rolled their blankets about them in a tiny
cabin, which they were lucky enough to have
to themselves. John after his last wretched
night slept heavily, but he awoke at dawn
with a dream yet vivid with him, and sat up,
trembling and listening for horses on the
road. He was unquiet till they had started
again and were climbing the Pass. The air
was more and more rare and roused him to
an unnatural excitement. He was in and out
of the buggy a dozen times ; he found himself
breathing more quickly, almost panting ashe

walked ; the points of his fingers were
cracked ; far-off objects seemed almost within
reach of his hand. All along a long mound
was a forest of charred poles, where
a fire had walked devouring ; beyond the
path of the flame the green firs came
thronging up the slopes in armies, and above
the masses of dark green glittered the
mounds and peaks of white eternal snow.
Here and there lay the carcase, slow to
decay, of some dead over-driven beast, and
tainted for a moment of passing the keen
sweet air. At the top of the Pass the track
was still difficult, and the horses slipped upon
the melting ice and frozen snow, but as they
began to descend again they moved more
freely and were soon shuffling through the
dust at a slow trot towards Leadville. Ten
thousand feet or so above the sea, on the side

of a long shallow valley, which lies among the
tops of the Eocky Mountains, stands the city
of Leadville.

When John Maidment saw it, it was the
youngest, as it is the highest, town in the
world. Indeed it was some two years old,
and boasted, for it had begun to speak, of
forty thousand inhabitants, of whom very few
were women. Men had come there from all
parts, thousands of men, though the forty
thousand was without doubt a pardonable exaggeration
— each man hungry for silver and
ready to give his life, if need were, in defence
of his claim. Indeed, though the miners
were for the most part peaceful and industrious,
working with grim determination and
keeping their weapons concealed, there were
almost as many revolvers as men, and murder
was a lighter crime than robbery. To punish

a thief, men who had not been robbed would
tear themselves from the pursuit of treasure
and ride day and night till they had killed
him for an example. Everywhere were signs
of the hunt for silver. The bleak rocky
slopes were marked with holes and with earth
flung out as if by the hind feet of gigantic
rabbits ; and, where the hole in the ground
had been the door of fortune, it was covered
by a great shed with its name as a full-grown
mine painted thereon. Above the infantine
city stretched a long belt of dark green forest
of firs, and from this forest the city had been
hewn, a city of brand-new deal boxes all of a
row, unstained by moisture in that dry preserving
air, unpainted and unpolished by the
hand of man. Close above the belt of trees
was powdery dazzling snow, which looked
so near that it seemed as if one could put

one's hand into it. There was no distance, no
mist, no moisture in that clean shallow cradle
where the baby town lay high up among the
topmost heights of the unchanging snow.

It was a busy time that year in Leadville,
and there were not many loafers in the dusty
street, when John Maidment and Sam Hall
came at a meritorious trot and stopped before
the biggest of all the wooden packing-cases,
which was the hotel. A disreputable individual,
who was smoking verily by the door,
removed his pipe to say, ' The town is full of
Tenderest,' and to spit ; but John had hardly
time to think if this were meant as a sign
of dissatisfaction with his appearance before
he heard a quick step in the passage, and
saw Paul, the friend of his boyhood, coming
quickly and with a fine blush, which showed
itself through all the deep burning of that
ardent sun.

CHAPTEE XXYE.

When he had shaken hands with Sam Hall
and had made him promise to take his
evening meal with him, Paul grasped John by
the arm and led him away through passages,
which creaked under their feet, to the bedroom
which he had secured for him. There
was only one chair, and that was somewhat
rickety ; so Paul sat on the bed and stared at
John and felt pity for him, thinking that he
looked ill and nervous and older than he
should. Paul himself looked stronger than
of old. He seemed to have expanded in
every way in the spacious Western world ; he

was like a straight young sapling to which
judicious clearing of encumbering growths
had given a more generous portion of air
and light. The long legs were stronger, the
shoulders broader, and the chest deeper ; and
with more strength there was more freedom
too. His head moved more easily on his
neck than Brent heads were wont to move,
and the Brent muscles looked as if in this
specimen of the race they could be used more
effectively and more quickly. The tall, fair,
and rather stiff lad had gained more breadth
and ease in manner as in body. Decided and
confident, he was friendly also ; he had lost a
great deal of his early fear of showing feeling.
In his life on the Plains he had rubbed
shoulders with all sorts of folk and had rubbed
off some portion of the family reserve : in
long silent days and evenings he had learned

to regard human speech with less severity.
And yet, though he felt as if he had a great
deal to say to his old friend, he had changed
so little from the reserved boy of former days
that he found it hard to begin.

John could not sit down ; he Alas waiting
in an agony for the other to speak. He
walked up and down the little room restless,
impatient, indignant with the Brent slowness
of speech. Only a few minutes had passed
since he followed Paul into the room, but he
felt as if he had restrained his tongue for
an hour, when at last he blurted out the
question which had been in his mind so
long. ' Have you seen my father ? ' he
asked, and the anxiety in his voice seemed to
Paul natural enough.

No,' he said ; ' he has gone away from
Leadville, and I can't tell where.'

John could not restrain a deep sigh,
which expressed his relief. He sat down in
the rickety chair and leaned his arms on the
table ; he was apparently examining the great
crack which divided the table from end to
end; he moistened his lips before he spoke
again, and did his best to speak with a
sufficiently careless air.

It's a bore,' he said, ' that I can't wait
while you look for him. I am bound to get
back at once to England ; I ought not to have
come, but I could not help coming after your
letter; I could only give myself just time to
get here and back.'

He looked up when he had made an end
of this speech and saw Paul's surprise and
regret ; he felt that he must go on, and, before
Paul could speak, he began to tell him that a
difficulty had arisen between his wife and

himself; that, though it was about nothing,
mischief might follow if he did not put it
right ; that he could not bear to be away
longer. Paul saw in this statement the
explanation of his friend's ill looks. He
stretched his hand across the table and laid
it on John's. ' You are quite right,' he said ;
it's an awful pity, but of course you are
right. When must you go ? '

I must start at once,' said John anxiously,
at once — tomorrow — by coach and rail down
the canon. I'll leave everything to you, and
you will let me know at once when you have
found him. Of course I leave everything to
you.'

Paul pressed his hand again ; he was full
of silent sympathy with his friend.

There's only one thing,' continued John,
which I need say, and that is, that of

course you won't bring or send him to England
till you have heard from me that —
that it is possible.' He was drumming on
the table with restless fingers and watching
them with apparent interest, but, hearing
no comment from Paul, he looked up at
last with ill-concealed anxiety. Paul was
pondering :

But I can't promise that,' he said at
last.

What ? ' cried out John sharply.

I can't promise — how can I ? If I find
him ill and — and wretched ? '

John could say nothing in answer, for
before his eyes arose a vivid picture of the
poor wretch whom he had seen two days
before ; the picture stopped his tongue.

Of course, if he were like that, I could
not wait for letters,' said Paul ; ' I should take

him clean out of this and straight away to
you in England.'

John was too sick for argument at the
moment ; he felt the resolution of this other
man like a weight on his tongue ; he could
only take some dismal comfort in the thought
that he was going away tomorrow and that,
when he had got safe away, it was likely that
his flow of words would come back to him —
that then he would prove by an eloquent
letter to this stiff-necked friend of his childhood
that it was in all ways best for Wilfred
Maidment to end his days in Colorado. At
least he would make it clear that he could
not and would not receive this wretched man
in England. He was savage with the
wretched man — savage with Paul, who was
regarding him across the narrow table with
irritating sympathy — savage with Fate.

The truth is,' said Paul presently with
one of his old blushes, ' that I've a poor
account of your father. They say he's in a
bad way, broken down with disappointments
and with — in fact, that he's been drinking
more than he ought. If that's so, he ought
not to stay here another hour. Drink plays
the devil in this air ; it ruins half the men
who come West. Besides, well or iU, your
father should be taken away. They say he's
always had a tribe of loafers and worse about
him, and now, when he has plenty of money,
they would simply live on him.'

Plenty of money ! '

Oh yes, he has plenty now ; I told you.'

'You told me of some stroke of luck.
Has it really turned out to be something ? '

A milton or so,' said Paul smiling.

VOL. II. N

What ? ' cried John with a sharp ring in
his voice.

It would fetch a million now.'

What would ? What is it ? '

The mine.'

My father owns a mine worth a million?'

Dollars.'

A million dollars — how much is that —
What is it in pounds ? '

About two hundred thousand,' said Paul;
it's probably worth a good deal more.'

My father ! ' said John, with that vision
of his parent again clear before his eyes.
His hands clutched the rough table so hard
that his fingers were dead-white ; he was
hungry for details ; his eyes fastened on his
friend's face, imploring him to speak.

Paul felt as uncomfortable as if he had
detected some deformity in this man, who

had been the ideal of his boyhood. He
turned his eyes away as he began the little
tale, and he told it with his most matter-of-course
air, as if it were of small importance.
It was one of those rare stories of luck, which
go Hke fire from man to man and kindle
greed, while the histories of the thousands
who grub for silver till they die and barely
pay their expenses are untold. The took
with almost his last handful of dollars had
bought a hole in the ground from a rascal
who thought he had gulled him ; he had left
it alone and almost forgotten it ; at last one
day, possessed by some strange fancy for
labour, he had gone in and dug, and had dug
scarce a foot deeper when he found pay dirt ;
and this had turned out to be no meagre
allowance, such as rewarded the labours of
many a Colorado miner, but a great rich

5f 2

store of silver, which was certainly a fortune
and might be one of the best mines in the
place.

John Maidment heard the story of his
father's luck, and as he listened his thoughts
were flying. Why had he not known this
when he met his father ? It was the finest
chance and he had lost it. If he had only
known of this wonderful thing, he could have
taken possession of his father then and there,
and could now take him away at once from
all danger of plunderers. What cruel luck
that he had not known ! If his father should
remember that he had told him his name and
that he had gone away without a word — gone
like a stranger, without even the leave-taking
of a chance acquaintance ? He told himself
that his father would not remember — would
not know that he had known him as his father.

Nobody must know that he had recognised
him that night. He must get back to him
somehow ; he must get hold of him and
guard him. His fingers twitched ; he could
scarcely stay in his chair. ' Is it true ? ' he
asked ; ' is it really true that he has all that ? '

Yes, it's all right,' said Paul rather impatiently.


But you said there was some hitch ?
Why did you hurry up here from Pueblo ? '

I heard at Pueblo that it was a big thing
and that Sark, the wretched chap who sold it,
was making a fuss.'

Then there is a difficulty,' said John
angrily — ' what does he say ? '

He says one day that he never sold it, and
another day that your father promised him
half profits. He tells several stories, all different
and all les. Luckily, he thought he was

doing your father when he sold the thing,
and so he took care that the sale was all
correct. I've looked into it thoroughly ; he
hasn't a leg to stand on.'

But has he given it up ? Has he withdrawn
his claim ? '

He is hanging on in the hope of getting
something to keep him quiet.'

Give him something,' cried John ; ' surely
that's the thing to do ; there can be no question.'


If you like,' said Paul grudgingly. ' The
fellow is a liar and a bully and not worth sixpence
; but of course you can promise, if you
like, to use your influence with your father to
give him something.'

Yes, I think so,' said John quickly ; ' I
think that's the thing to do. Where is he?
Where could I find him ? '

I know where we can find him to-night.'

Where ? '

Did you see that pretty scoundrel who
spat just as you drove up to the door ? '

Yes,' said John.

'That's Mr. Garbets ; he is Sark's jackal
and toady ; he came to invite me to a conference
with his chief at a drinking-den just
out of the town.'

Are you going ? '

I said no ; but we can go if you like.'

Yes, yes — the sooner the better.'

Before he gets anything, he must give
his written statement that he has not a ghost
of a claim on the thing. Poor devil ! He is
a very hard ticket, but it was hard luck to be
within a few inches of a fortune.' Paul had
got off the bed and come round the table, and
as he passed behind John's chair he laid his

hand a moment on his shoulder and pressed it,
as if he would bid him not to worry. He felt
as if there was something wrong with his
friend and he wanted to help him. ' I'll leave
you for a bit now,' he said, ' and look for Hall.
We'll meet at supper, and then if you like
we'll go and settle Mr. Sark.'

All right ! ' said John with an effort at
ease and friendliness. He was eager to be
alone.

John was in a feverish state, which would
have surprised himself had he had time to
think of it. This tale, so baldly told, had
seemed to him like the dry bones of a
romance gorgeous as all the East. To-day a
beggar ; tomorrow a millionaire. His fancy
was hanging the bare framework, with all its
silks and jewelled lamps ; while all the time
he heard the whisper that nothing was sure

till the mine was sold and the money paid, and
he had the money and his father safe at home
in England. Nobody had ever accused him
of avarice. He had always known that
wealth was the most important thing in the
England of to-day — that it doubled the weight
of any man who was in public life. The
clever politician, who was rich too, commanded
a respect and carried a weapon for
which John had not hoped. He had not
wasted his thoughts on this matter, for he
had never expected to be a rich man. By
his marriage he had secured independence,
and he had been content ; he had rid himself
of that flavour of the adventurer which well-to-do
Britons of all classes suspect in the politician
with the slender purse. A fat purse is
the ensign of respectability. John had looked
for nothing more ; but now his father was a

rich man, and he was his father's heir. A
latent chord of greed was struck ; he longed
to handle the price of the mine — to feel the
power which he would wield — of course for
the best ends.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

When the friends had finished their supper
and Paul and John were ready to go in search
of Mr. Sark, it appeared that Sam Hall had
made up his mind to join the party. He
remarked that he had considerable experience
of the hardest kind of hard tickets, and he
guessed he'd go along too. So the three men
stepped out together and stepped out briskly,
for in those high regions, in early May, the
nights are piercing keen and clear. John
felt happier, for he was making the first step
towards the settlement of this thing, which
unsettled made him restless and easter as a

thirsty man in the desert who sees pain-trees
in the distance.

The town was now full of miners, who
had done their day's work, going in and out
of the gambling sheds which stood open to
the street, paying great prices for goods at a
flaming gas-lit store — a moving crowd remarkable
among crowds for its silence, and, as
it seemed, most orderly and harmless. But
when the three friends had left the town, the
dusty road, by which the buggy had approached
Leadville some hours before, lay
desolate and dusky before them. They had
not far to go, and, walking briskly they soon
came to a rough shanty by the wayside, and
coidd hear in the great silence a noise of
voices and of oaths, which seemed to indicate
a merry meeting. Paul, uncertain if this were
the trysting-place to which he had been

bidden by the unsavoury Garbets, struck a
light and read with more distinctness the
irregular black letters which had been painted
above the low door. ' Smile twice for two
bits,' was the pleasant invitation which the
simple vendor of drinks addressed to the
passing traveller; and this enigmatical tavern -
sign seemed to content Paul, for he pushed
open the door and, stooping his head a little,
went in. At the opening of the door a fine
full blast of the fumes of bad whiskey rushed
out into the cool clear night, and John, with
a sudden disgust, followed his friend into the
place. Sam Hall came in last, and, with a
large toleration of the tastes of the patrons of
the establishment, shut the door behind him.
It was a mere shed with a lean-to at the
back, which the enterprising proprietor had
built for himself as a temporary place of

business and with the strictest economy ; for
it was as clear from the nature of his dwelling,
as from the price and quality of his
liquor, that this merchant had not (to use
the language of the country) come there for
his health. If to drink was to smile, as his
sign seemed to announce, he may have
reflected sometimes, with a certain irony,
that there was no promise that the smile
should not be a grin of anguish. The worthy
man was doing a roaring trade ; these were
good times in Leadville, and money was
plentiful ; and the gayer spirits found a charm
in this suburban retreat, where the liquor was
the fiercest to be had at the price, and where
the grimmest pleasantry prevailed and the
very tallest stories were told.

They were but a small company who on
that evening had created so spirituous an

atmosphere. Some half a dozen men sat on
empty boxes which had held whiskey, or
leaned against the rickety counter, which
concealed the legs of the enterprising host.

When Paul entered, followed by his friends,
Mr. Sark broke short an oration, which he
was delivering to his own satisfaction, and
carefully directed his attention to the newcomers.
He was in that stage of intoxication
which produced in him an air of dignity and
a love of rhetoric. Having convinced himself
of Paul's identity, he addressed the company
again and congratulated them with a fine
sweep of the arm and an irony perhaps less
fine on the presence of ' these fine-haired men '
at their humble meeting ; he expressed his
readiness to move a resolution of thanks.
Paul, in answer to the stern inquiring eye of the
host, asked for drinks, and then, fixing his eye

on Mr. Sark, said that they had come on business,
and suggested that they should go outside
and discuss it. Mr. Sark however had a
constitutional preference for a stove-heated
whiskey scented air, and declared with an
access of dignity that he had no secrets.

All right,' said Paul. ' My friend here is
John Maidment, son of Wilfred Maidment.'

And why did not the old man come himself?
' asked the other with a plaintive drawl.
I lev been a good friend to the took, and
he'd a done better to lev come to his old friend
fair and square and not have gone lounging oil
to a darned lawyer at the Springs.'

How do you know he has gone to the
Springs ? ' asked Paul quickly.

'Oh, it's a secret, is it?' said Mr. Sark
scornfully. ' Well, I guess I know something,'
he added with pride. 'I know the took
started clear out of Leadville a week since over

the Western Pass, and, if he an't either dead
or drink, he is at Colorado Springs by now.'

By this time John had reached the Hit of
endurance. This reeking den filled him with
disgust ; the staring silent men in their
slouched hats affected his nerves ; the familiarity
of Mr. Sark made him sick. That this
ruffian should speak with an air of patronage
of Holm Maidment's father ! And then there
came back to him again the image of that
father, and he felt the horror of his degradation
and in the next moment the longing to secure
him. He noted as a piece of luck that Paul
had been put on the track of Wilfred Maidment
without any hint from him ; he had only
to find a reason for putting off his journey to
England and going back again with his friend
over the Western Pass ; they could not fail to
find his father. Meanwhile this place was un-vol.

11. o

endurable ; lie felt that no further good would
come of the interview ; he loathed this festive
company. He pulled Paul's coat sleeve, and
Paul, quite ready to come to the point with the
fewest words needful, came a step nearer to
Mr. Sark and said, ' It's a plain matter ; you
know as well as I know that you have no
claim on the mine.'

What ? ' shrieked Mr. Sark, as if somebody
had flicked him with a whip ; and the
sympathetic Garbets, who was sitting in a
heap in a corner, uttered a note of scorn.

'But my friend here,' continued Paul,
thinks it hard luck for you to have been so
near to a good thing and to have lost it ; and
so, if you will just write on a bit of paper
that you have no claim whatever on the mine,
he will promise you in his father's name two
thousand dollars.'

Two thousand dollars ! Two thousand
dollars for what will be worth two millions !
Why, you :

Here Mr. Sark became speechless from
excess of emotion ; he was choked with wrath,
and grew purple and danced upon the floor,
until at last the pent-up agony found expression
in an intricate web of blasphemies, so
various and so rich in colour, that it is doubtful
if the most hardened sinner present had
ever heard the like.

At last it was finished, and Paul said with
even more coldness, ' That's the offer ; you can
take it or leave it.'

And it is this blank, blank Underfoot—
this son of that soaked old fraud and darned
deadbeat Will Maidment who '

Mr. Sark paused, feeling perhaps that any
words were poor after his late magnificent



outburst, but lie had said enough to make
silence no longer possible for John. He
ground his teeth, but the word ' scoundrel '
seemed to force its way through and sounded
with startling' distinctness.

What ? ' barked Sark with a bound.

" Scoundrel ! " he said,' cried out Paul, and
in the same moment he knocked Mr. Sark
down, and following his blow threw himself
upon him and grasped his right arm with all
his force till he felt the muscle grow limp.
An awful flow of curses broke from the fallen
man, whose arm was bent under him, while
Paul forced him on to his face and took from
his white fingers the pistol which they had
grasped in the quick moment before the
blow.

Sam Hall had stepped past John, and
stood with a grim smile waiting for further

events ; but nobody seemed eager to carry on
the game. Mr. Garbets confined himself to
incoherent curses, singing second as it were
to his accomplished chief; the other men
present scarcely changed their positions.
Indeed, the great Sark was not a popular
man, and such respect as he commanded
was solely due to his reputation with the
revolver.

'Paul has been there before,' said Sam
Hall to John, when it was clear that the incident
was finished.

What did the villain want ? ' asked John
in much excitement ; ' what did he mean
to do ? '

I guess he meant to kill you for calling
names, and he would have done it in about
half a minute if our friend had not got there
first.'

CHAPTEE XXIX.

Certainly Paul Brent and his comrades
retreated with the honours of war ; and Paul
himself, like a Homeric hero, bore from the
field of battle the arms of the fallen foe.
Unlike the heroes of that child-like age, he
neither boasted himself exultant nor adorned
himself with the spoils ; he shoved the
revolver into his trousers pocket and strode
home with grave thoughts. John hurrying
beside him was in a fever of excitement.
He could scarcely yet realise the meaning of
the quick struggle which he had seen — could
scarcely yet believe that, instead of walking
and breathing there with the hot blood tingling

in him from head to heel, he might belying
cold and feeling nothing. Excitement
after excitement had come to him in the last
few days, but this last swallowed up them all
for the time being — that he had been cheek
by jowl with death. Was it really so near ?
Paul laughed it off; but Sam Hall let John
know that Paul had seen Sark's hand move
for the pistol-pocket in his rear, and on that
sign had struck. Hall thought it well that
this elegant young stranger should know that
he owed his life to his friend — that, had
Paul's arm been less quick or a yard farther
from !Mr. Sark's head, John Maidment's eloquent
tongue had wagged its last on earth.
It ceased to move now, for awe fell on John
and he was glad to walk forward in silence
and to know that he was alive.

Alien they had reached the hotel, he

followed Paul to his room, and there thanked
him from a full heart. He spoke simply and
truthfully, and the two men clasped hands
with as simple trust and love as if they had
been boys again. And then, since the easy
gates of speech were open, John glided easily
to that which had to be said. He declared
that after all he could not leave Paul yet, but
must go with him to find his father ; if there
were a divided duty, he was sure now that he
must find his father before he went back to
his wife ; and he thought that, when he had
found him, he had better take him away, as
Paul had advised, from a place so full of
peril. Paul cordially approved his friend's
new decision ; he was eager to bring father
and son together, and to pack them both off
safe to England ; he had been considering, ashe
walked home, how many days would pass

before ]mr. Sark would be able to use his right
arm effectively ; he counted on a week, and
hoped for more. And now, as John had slid
so easily over this difficulty and was warmed
by his friend's approval of his change of plan,
he was inspired to pass without a pause to
a half-confession. It seemed as if he were
carried into it by quick-coming appropriate
words ; and he found himself telling Paul that
he had seen at the ranch, where he had slept
on the way up, a poor broken man who had
seemed strangely familiar to him, and that,
since he had heard the poor account of his
father, he had been haunted by the belief that
that poor broken man was he. The danger
through which he had passed, and the sudden
inspiration to which he now yielded, brought
a sob into John's voice, which touched an old
chord in his friend. Paul had been pained

by the change m John, though he would not
let his thoughts dwell upon it. His old belief
in the infallibility of John Maidment was dead
long ago with the glad confident morning of
their boyhood, but it had left a great tenderness
; and, as some gentle eyes will not bear
to observe with a too curious scrutiny the
lines which Time has writ upon a face once
loved, so Paul turned his thoughts with a fine
modesty from a deliberate criticism of his
friend. It was enough to say that John
looked ill, that he was not himself And was
it not natural that a man should look ill,
harassed, almost old at times, who had
travelled day and night from Mayfair to
Leadville, from an offended wife to a disappointing
father ; who had heard without
preparation the news of intoxicating fortune,
and, with wealth almost in his hand, had been

within a second of death ? John was not himself,
Paid thought, and it was no wonder.
But yet some warmth of sympathy had been
wanting ; and it was only now, when John
confessed his fear that he had seen his father,
and his voice broke in the confession, that
Paul felt the deep joy of giving his sympathy
in full measure. He did not say
much, but he said more than he could have
forced from his lips in his Oxford days, and
they were good encouraging words. He
declared that John's father woidd bloom in
the old atmosphere to a new health and new
habits of life ; that it would be a glad day
for his own father when he could welcome
Wilfred Maidment again, and a real joy for
him to be allowed to take charge of his old
friend as often and for as long a time as John
would allow.

John felt better, and would have gone on
talking far into the night, but Paul would
not. He had settled with Sam Hall, who
seemed able to refuse him nothing, that the
team should be ready at the first glimpse of
light, for he wished by travelling from dawn
to dark to reach the ranch in a single
day.

It was a long day's journey and uneventful,
and John, sitting silent in the buggy and
staring at mile after mile of the familiar track,
sank now and then into a sort of drowsy unbelief
in the reality of these wonders, which
he had heard and seen. Indeed he was tired ;
strange events and exciting air had robbed
him of his proper sleep ; he was oppressed
by extraordinary periods of silence. But
when they drew near to the low stone house,
which he had left three days ago with such

strange feelings, his mind sprang up alert.
In a few minutes be would see again the bare
rough room where he had looked up across
the narrow table and heard his father's name
from those tremulous lips, which were his
father's. Was he still there ? In a few
minutes he might see him again — in what
condition ? In a few minutes he might be
trying with all his faculties to read in his
father's face whether he remembered that he
had told his name — whether he knew that he
John Maidment, recognising his father, had
gone away without a word. He was in an
agony of doubt. In a minute they would
meet. Perhaps his father, learning who he
was, would know clearly that he had told him
his name ; perhaps he would not even see
that this son of his was the same man to
whom he had chatted so freely three days

ago. Join could not be sure ; it seemed
as if these laofs^insj horses would never
reach that low-lying cluster of grey, dismal
walls.

It was Paul who asked the question, and
John who listened for the answer with an
anxiety which was almost acute pain. The
owner of the ranch, with his deliberate
North-country manner, informed them that
the took was still there — that he had not yet
felt strong enough to go on. He was glad tolet
him lie and to feed him as well as he could,
but he strongly advised ]his removal to more
luxurious quarters. He stated his belief that
no woman had ever been in the house, and his
suspicion that when a man was ill a woman
might be useful ; he seemed more certain that
sheets and such things would alleviate a sick
man's condition. It was clear enough from

his amiable but contemptuous manner of
speaking of his guest that he had no suspicion
that he had entertained a millionaire
unawares. Indeed he too had come to this
region not for his health's sake ; he had little
leisure for listening to gossip, and, since this
property of his lay far away from the common
track to Leadville, small opportunities of
hearing it.

Paul bent his head in the vacant doorway
which united the centre room to the sleeping-den
on the left, and John followed him with
quaking heart. One glance was enough to
show him that he need fear no vehement
reproaches. His father lay on the same old
dirty mattress, whereon he had left him so
short a time ago, turning and going away
with the unspoken hope in his heart that he
should see his face no more. A few days had

]passed and lie was here again, peering by the
uncertain light at the wan fallen face, trying
to decide how weak lie was and how much
life was in him. He thought that the poor
creature looked worse than when he saw him
last, but this might be a mere ebb which a
flow must follow ; and, as he looked, he was
smitten suddenly with pity that he should be
staring in this dismal place at a poor wretch
sleeping like a tired tramp at home, and that
this should be his father. He turned away
with a sob and caught Paul's hand, and Paul
wrung it with a painful pressure, for he could
not speak. Paul was thinking of his own
father far away in England, and the thought
deprived him of speech ; that loyal gentleman
at home had loved this man so well and been
so firm a friend to him ; and here he lay, after
all, a poor, weak, degraded creature. Hung on

the floor like a bundle of greasy clothes. The
young Englishman's eyes filled with unaccustomed
tears as he looked at his father's
friend.

On the next morning it became clear that
Wilfred Maidment's only strength was in a
perfect indifference to Fate. He looked at
those new-comers who had watched him in
this sleep, and did not seem to care a jot
whether they came or went, spoke or were
silent, left him on his mattress or carried him
away. He was so weak that Paul gave him
some brandy from John's flask, and this
seemed to be a sufficient reason for the took
to repose entire confidence in Paul. He
followed him gratefully with his watery eyes,
and he feebly smiled acquiescence when he
heard that he was to be carried down at once
to Manitou ; he was looking at his new

VOL. II. P

friend's pocket while he smiled, and he would
have smiled no less amiably if the new
friend had decreed that he should be taken
post haste to Jericho.

So Paul busied himself with making as
good a bed as he could in Sam Hall's buggy,
and when everything was ready they brought
out the poor gentleman and started down the
trail at a foot's pace, Sam Hall driving with
his feet on the pole and the two younger men
walking ; and so they came in good time to
Manitou, which was by some miles nearer than
Colorado Springs. Manitou was beginning to
have a little reputation for strengthening the
delicate with its fine mountain air and its
iron spring ; and besides a few small houses
dotted on the slope there had sprung up a
bio' brand-new wooden house, which was
nothing less than a hotel with a piazza, a

supply of clean linen, a young clerk, and no
mean show of the luxuries of hotel civilisation.
There Paul, who had been obliged to
repeat his doses of brandy two or three times
on the journey, carried his charge to a bare
clean bedroom on the second floor, washed
him unresisting, and put him to bed in clean
sheets. The feeling of the sheets seemed to
carry Mr. Maidment back to other days ; he
began to cry silently, and looked at his attendant
with beseeching eyes. But Paul would not
comfort him with more alcohol ; he only
responded to the appeal by smoothing his
pillow and his poor old faded hair, sitting
patient and watchful till his charge had fallen
asleep.

And now began a trying time for John
Maidment. He had looked on Manitou asp

2

but the first resting-place in the journey to

England ; but day followed day, and the

invalid could not be moved. A woman had

been found to look after him, but her duties

were light, for he preferred to be nursed by

Paul ; and Paul gave almost all his time to him.

He lay weak (it was a question if he did not

grow a little weaker every day), but with a

much more respectable air ; for he was washed

and brushed and tended with the nicest care,

and in his calmer hours he looked like a

model old gentleman lying patiently on the

best mattress of the hotel and feeling the

sheet tremulously with his thin nervous fingers.

There were other times when he did not seem

like a model old gentleman — times when he

set himself coughing by the vehemence of

his Eocky Mountain language, when he first

shrieked and then whined for spirits, and

would not be comforted by those substitutes
which the doctor provided.

The doctor, who had come to this lonely
place for his own health, discovered a very
interesting combination of maladies in the
poor old patient ; but Sam Hall went to the
root of the matter when he guessed that
Mr. Maidment was just burnt up and worn
out. When he was in a bad mood, nobody
had any influence with him but Paul, and
nobody had so bad an effect as his own
son. Indeed at all times John's presence
seemed harmful to his father ; and he was glad
to keep away, for the sick man had an ill effect
on him too. It seemed as if each could feel
the presence of the other, as if some family
element common to both overcharged the air
of the sick-room. It is true that in his vaguer
moments Wilfred Maidment seemed to forget

that he had ever had a son ; but presently
he would look at his son so shrewdly, that
John felt as if he remembered clearly every
detail of that unlucky evening at the ranch
when he had known him and made no sign.
Wilfred's calmness would give way to impatience
; and John would go away pale and unquiet
to assure himself that his father was too
ill to have any clear conception of what had
passed between them. He walked about or
tried to read, and wondered how long this state
of things would last, and what would come of
it. He was sorry for himself and sorry for his
father too ; he was obliged to leave him to
Paul ; and surely he could not distrust Paul.

CHAPTEE XXX.

Sometimes, when Mr. Maidment was alone
with Paul and feeling comfortable, he would
become sprightly. Then his topic was himself,
and he would exhibit himself, as it
were, against old backgrounds, which were
stored away like theatrical properties in
his musty old memory. He had belonged
to exclusive clubs ; he had moved in exclusive
circles ; he had been admired by
delightful women. He looked at Paul doubtfully,
as he babbled about the great houses
wherein his elegant figure had moved, or
hinted at successes with the fair ; he watched

his sole auditor with doubt, and with a sort
of plaintive prayer to be believed. He told
the social stories which had gained him a
name in the mountains and plenteous drinks
withal. He had cared little whether his
Western hearers had believed him or not ;
but now there had come to him a young
Englishman, who must have seen or at least
heard of these clubs and palaces, the desired
Park and Piccadilly, and it seemed to the poor
took essential that his new friend should be-have
that he had been in his day a real swelL
The stories were true enough ; but the
poor story-teller could not rid himself of the
haunting fear that to the initiated they must
seem false. His wan old face and feeble
eyes were always mutely appealing to Paul for
an assurance that it did not seem impossible
that he had been an arbiter of taste and a

man of fashion. As he hinted of his conquests,
his trembling skinny fingers went in
obedience to old habit to the faded wisp of
moustache, and he simpered till he showed
the gaps among his handsome teeth.

Paul used to blush as he pretended
interest in those musty stories of the town ;
and he did some violence to his conscience
when he pictured for the invalid a nice place
in the country, which he should buy with
some of his new wealth, and where he should
entertain his friends of former days. ' Only
make haste to be strong,' he said one day
when Mr. Maidment's gayest mood had been
followed by a sudden depression ; ' only get
strong, and we'll take you to England and
set you up with a house, and a place, and
horses, and — and all that.'

The poor gentleman looked at him rather

strangely, and then looked at his hand,
which was almost transparent against the
light of the window. ' I should like a week
in Paris,' he said, ' with lots of money. It's
come too late — it's come too late,' and he
began to cry.

Paul could not bear this sight. He got
up from his chair beside the bed with a few
incoherent words of consolation, and went and
stared out of the window, waiting till the poor
gentleman's snivelling should end in lethargy.

On this occasion however the patient's
mind was strangely alert ; the unusual
thought of wealth so long desired, and now
his own, had led to another thought at least
as unusual. He called fretfully to the young
man at the window, and Paul turning saw
a faint colour in his cheek and agitation in
his eyes and fingers.

I don't see wliy,' he said, ' I shouldn't
pay my debts to your father.' He had done
with his crying, and now spoke with weak
defiance, as if he were making a suggestion
which could not but be combated as extravagant.


Paul was certainly astonished. It was
no surprise to him that his father had lent
Wilfred Maidment money ; though, as was
natural, his father and he had never spoken
on the subject. But he was surprised that
the idea of repayment should have been so
clear to Mr. Maidment that it had found expression
in words. He stared at his patient
and could not tell what to say ; he tried to
decide how his father would have received
such a suggestion.

The took was irritated by this silence; he
had grasped this idea, which charmed him by

its novelty, and he clung to it with obstinacy.
He began to distress himself at this silence,
which seemed like opposition. 'They're debts
of honour,' he said, ' debts of honour — damme,
man, you wouldn't have me neglect my debts
of honour ! '

His voice went up into a quaver, and
Paul to soothe him said that, if he owed his
father anything, he could pay him of course.

If I owe him ! ' cried Mr. Maidment ; and
he would not be pacified till he had told Paul
of loan after loan which the Colonel had sent
him since his first coming to America.

There were limits to the poor gentleman's
memory, even at this brilliant moment, as
there are limits (or so the wise have said) to
the confessions of every debtor ; but, though
no mention was made of money borrowed in
the old days in England, and though without

doubt the list of the later loans was not
complete, Paul was astonished at the amount
which this improvident person had received
from his old friend. The improvident person
was pleased with the effect which he produced
on his auditor, and to deepen the impression
he insisted with delight in such businesses
accuracy that Paul should write down the
amounts from his dictation.

When this solemn business was ended, Mr.
Maidment closed his eyes and lay with a smile
of beatitude on his lips, content with his
conduct, as if to make a list of debts were
equivalent to their payment. But even now
he did not remain in that passive state
which seemed natural after this unwonted
exercise of both conscience and memory. Yet
another idea came to the surface. If Philip
Brent had lent him money when he wanted

it, he would leave the money, which he had
won at last, to Philip's son. He had never
made a will, and the notion of making one
filled him with pleasant excitement : it was a
delightful novelty ; it made him fully realise
for the first time that he was a man of property.
Between him and men of property
(solemn and majestic title) there had always
seemed a great gulf. Now the gulf was
passed ; he too was the sort of man who sends
for his lawyer (the most respectable possession
in the world) and makes a will. He was
delighted ; his eyes were wide open again,
and feverishly bright when he announced to
Paul that he proposed to leave him his
fortune. ' A legacy or two,' he said, ' you
won't mind ; but all the residue of my fortune,
of which I die possessed, mines or minerals,
messuages, tenements, with their 

and tbingainies, I leave and bequeath
to 111}^ dear and valued friend Paul Brent, and
and the game is up, and rien ne va plus.'

He ended with vague muttering, as if his
great ideas had been too much for him. Paul
went to him and patted his pillow.

Never mind about wills and lawyers,' he
said ; ' you must wait till you get to England ;
that's the place for lawyers.'

'But I shan't o-et to Norland,' said Mr.
Maidment fretfully, but yielding as usual to
Paul's authoritative hand. ' I shan't get to
England,' he muttered again sleepily ; and
Paul looking down at the wasted face felt
with an aching of the heart that the untold
story of his father's noble friendship was to
be ended here. And he had inherited, as it
were, this loyal protecting friendship ; and
it was as impossible for him to dally for a

moment with the idea of taking a penny of
this fortune, which must come to John, as to
go in search of his friend and filch the money
from his pocket.

While Paul nursed his patient and listened
to his prattle, when he was able to speak,
John was growing daily more sick of silence
and of idleness. For long hours he had
nobody to talk to, and when he had written
his budget of letters to Eno-land he had
nothing to do. He had written to all those
who ought to be prepared for the possible
arrival of his dilapidated parent ; he had
written well of the hard life and rough companions
which had broken the health and
destroyed the beauty of the brilliant Wilfred
Maidment. In his anxiety and solitude he
had turned to his wife for sympathy, and his
letter to her, which ignored their misunderstanding,

was eloquent of pity for his father
and of affection for her.

It seemed an age before he could receive
lier answer, and confirm his expectation of
her full acceptance of peace and oblivion, of her
generous zeal to help and nurse her husband's
father. Both to her and to his other correspondents
he had hinted at the possibility of
wealth ; but merely hinted, for here too was
a gnawing anxiety. He did not dare to
believe that all this money would be his. A
silver mine among the topmost peaks of the
Eocky Mountains seemed at moments impossible
as the treasure of Aladdin ; and the
more desirable for his career, the more unreal.
And then among these wild men, of whom
each carried half-a-dozen lives in a small
pocket of his trowsers, it seemed to his
excited fancy that a mine might be plundered

VOL. II. Q

or held by force. He could not understand
the calm confidence of Paul, who put the
matter aside as if it were safe enough and
of no immediate interest. He was only half
convinced by Sam Hall's statement that
wealth was safer in Leadville than in New
York, and that offences against sacred property
were a thousand times more sure of
punishment than offences against life. But
for this security every man must sit on his
pile with a small battery beside him — and how
then would work be done ?

Sam Hall came up from Colorado Springs
as often as he could, and his visits did
John good ; he was easy and confident, and
brought the latest news of Mr. Sark. And
Mr. Sark was another cause of recurring
anxiety to John. Of course the man's claim
was hollow ; but who could be sure of justice

anywhere ? Here in this region, where civilisation
was but putting forth her first tentative
buds, it seemed to John as if the earnest
claim might be preferred. But Sam Hall
treated with the largest contempt both the
claim and the claimant. He generally had
something to say about him.

One day he brought a report that Mr.
Sark was collecting evidence of a supposed
promise of Mr. Maidment that the profits of
the hole in the ground, if any, should be
shared between them ; and John was not
wholly reassured by Sam Hall's grave approval
of the value of this testimony, on the ground
that there was not one of these witnesses
whose oath was not proof positive of the
opposite.

On another day the air was electrified by
the rumour that the great Sark was on the

o

Q2

war-path, breathing whiskey and horrid
threats of vengeance, fortifying his spirit
with ingenious masterpieces of intricate
profanity. Sam Hall knew, as John did
not know, that Paul had left behind him
in Leadville a neat parcel containing Mr.
Sark's revolver, having an inborn distaste for
another man's property, and being of opinion
that, if he were to be shot, he might as well
be shot by this pistol as another. That
Mr. Sark should go round without a shooting-iron
was about as likely as that a ga;ne-cock
would voluntarily leave his spurs at home.
But Sam Hall was sceptical of more shooting,
opining that the avenger would decide to
leave their crowd alone ; and it was not long
before he came with a grim smile at the
fulfilment of his expectations, and the news
til at the enemy had climbed down. It is true

that the chief still held aloof, majestic in his
wrath as Achilles ; but Mr. Garments had
come to Mr. Hall on a diplomatic mission to
find out if there was still a chance of that two
thousand dollars. The diplomatist had been
dismissed with contempt, and then at last the
chief had appeared in person ; and John was
vexed when Sam Hall told him that he had
sent away the haughty Sark with small hope
of the money. John did not rest until the
two thousand dollars were paid, and he held
a paper signed at the lawyer's office by Mr.
Sark, who therein declared that he had not,
nor had ever had any claim whatever on the
mine of Mr. Wilfred Maidment. So Mr. Sark
went on the drink for a week, and out of the
ken of John Maidment, who was glad to think
of him no more.

One cause of uneasiness was removed ; but

causes enough remained for John to review in
his lonely walks and dismal hours of thinking.
He was banished from his father's bedside, but
his brief glimpses of the sick man and the
daily reports kept him in a fever of anxiety.
How long would he lie there ? When could
he be moved ? Would he ever be moved P
If the mine was his beyond all contention, and
was as valuable as they said, would it all
belong in time to him, John Maidment ? He
wanted it so much. If this great chance had
never come near him, he would have done
well (he rarely doubted that he would do
well) without it ; but now he had almost
grasped a fortune, a fortune in his own control,
a great sum of money to use as he
thought fit. He felt that he must have it.
He had shown people that he was eloquent
and clever, and this money would make him a

man of weight. He who had all the talents
must have these ten talents also, and he
would be a leading man at once. Was he
sure of this rich heritage ? He was made
nervous by his father's indifference, and
carried as daily companion the constant fear
that some part of this wealth, for which he
thirsted, would be given away or left to somebody.
When he could bear the fear no more
in silence he asked Paul if it were not right
that his father should make a will ; he spoke
almost fiercely of his dislike of entering on
this subject ; he felt that he ought to
speak.

This day, on which John relieved his mind
by speech, came not long after that on which
Wilfred Maid men t had expressed his wish to
make a will in Paul's favour. Mr. Maidment
seemed to have forgotten his wish, and Paul

had hoped that he should hear no more about
it. Now he spoke on the subject with
decision. He strongly advised John not to
bother his father about a will ; he declared to
him that it would be bad for his patient ; lie
told him shortly that, if his father died and
left no will behind, all would go to his son,
and that that was clearly the best arrangement.
John was glad that he had spoken ;
in a moment he was in a mood to be generous
; he expressed his conviction that his
father ought to leave something to Paul's
people. Though the subject was distasteful
to him, he could not but say to Paul that his
poor father had owed much — probably some
money and certainly much kindness — to
Colonel Brent. Paul looked at John with a
frown of perplexity ; after a minute he took
his old pocket-book out of his breast-pocket,

and took from the pocket-book a paper which
he handed to John.

What's this ? ' asked John sharply, as he
looked at the list of figures.

Your father made me write them down
Paul said ; ' he says he owes that to my
father. When you come into your property,
you can offer to pay my father. I think that
is fair, and, because it's fair, I think my
father will take it.'

It would make a very small hole in
John's fortune, which was to be ; but yet the
sight of the figures annoyed him. ' Did you
know of this before ? ' he asked crossly.

I guessed it,' said Paul.

Why was I never told anything ? ' asked
John ; it was a familiar hne of complaint, and
he grew hot as he spoke. ' It was always the
same thing ; I was always treated as a child,

or a pauper brought up for charity's sake.
How could I have borne that charity if I had
known that all the time my father was draining
him too ? '

Hush ! ' said Paul, with a look at the
house.

They were so far away that, had John
shouted his indignant questions, no hint of
them could have reached the ears of the
invalid ; but yet Paul hated this talk of
draining ' almost as if it were a criticism of
his own father. He was o-rowino- very tender
towards the sick man, whom he had tended
so firmly and gently. ' Don't talk about it,'
he said : ' a friend who has must lend to a
friend who wants — and you — perhaps you
won't have to wait long before you can repay
those things.'

The words almost stuck in his throat, so

loth was lie to confess how weak the poor
man was. But John was full of words, which
still demanded utterance ; he declared that
facts were not altered — that right was still
right — that it was wrong that he should have
been kept in the dark. He grew hotter and
more emphatic as he felt the unspoken disapproval
of the tall young man, who stood
there stiff and with a little more colour
growing visible in his tanned cheek. John
was exasperated : he remembered with exceeding
bitterness how he had mentally
criticised his guardian the Colonel for this
or that use of his money, for this or that
economy ; and how he had always assured
himself that his own bringing up was buta
small return on the Colonel's part for all
the benefit which he had derived from the
friendship of the brilliant Wilfred Maidment.

Truly the facts were not altered : the fact
was that clung all those years, in which
Colonel Brent had been paying for John at
school and at college and even when he was
a Member of Parliament, he had been sending
sums of money across the sea to be wasted in
speculation or imbibed in whiskey by John's
father. And John had not been told, and
this was the only aspect of the affair which
enabled him to pour forth his deep and effervescing
vexation. He was indignant with
this old Brent silence, of which he felt that he
had always been the victim ; and Paul, erect
and speechless in the sunshine, seemed to him
the last and not the least annoying embodiment
of that incomparable silence.

CHAPTEE XXXI.

Xo eyes, however kind, could long refuse to
see that Wilfred Maidment grew weaker. The
American sun was hotter with every day,
l^urnino- so far away in the 
sky, and pouring down its beams of
lire through the clear cold air ; but for all its
heat it could not give new life to the exhausted
man. Without words it came to be
understood by all that he would never see
again the valley mists and green soft hedges
of England. He did not even wish to move.
His restless moods were fewer ; even the
craving for stimulants which had possessed

him now and then lost strength, as he lost
lost strength. He talked less and less, and
seemed content to lie dozing or musing with
open eyes, quiet in his bed. From the first
this clean bed had been so sweet to him, that
when Paul lifted him from it that it might be
aired and made afresh, he had been always
irritable and anxious, till the same strong
arms had put him back into the sheets.
Clean sheets were a fine luxury, and the
greatest of luxuries was rest. Perhaps lying
there with the open eyes staring at the ceiling,
he wondered why he had treated himself to
so little of this inexpensive repose : he had
always been an idle man, and had never found
time to rest ; it must have seemed strange to
him. But he had had some fun in his day.
It was certain that he remembered sometimes
how well he had amused himself; for Paul

sitting silent by the window heard now and
then a feeble chuckle, which moved his pity
more than tears could move it.

One evening Paul, who had been in the
sick man's room almost all day, seeing his
patient calm and still as the evening, and as
indifferent, or so it seemed, to all the troubles
of humanity, determined to treat himself to
a good night's rest in a fresh room. He saw
til at everything which the poor man could
need was in its place ; and when he had
seen the nurse established he went away
and shut himself in alone and slept. He
slept so well that he did not wake till
the knocking on his door had grown
loud ; and then he leapt from the bed, and
going softly to the door heard from the
nurse that Mr. Maidment was restless and

talking wildly, and that she could not quiet
him.

After a few minutes Paul was in his
patient's room, and by the faint light which
was burning, he saw him moving his head
on the pillow and muttering like one in a
perplexing dream. Paul bent low over the
pillow, and when he raised his head he told the
nurse to go for John. A change had come
in the sick man which might mean much,
and it was right that his son should be
there. Now and then his murmurs rose
into anxious words, and Paul standing silent
in the stillness could hear him complain.
We shall be late,' he said ; ' she will have
gone ; how do I look ? Am I all right ? '
He said the words again and again, till they
sank into a sort of sing-song, and then he
cried out again with sharp anxiety, ' Am I

all right P Is my tie straight ? ' Then he
laughed feebly — ' Ha, ha, ha, la covering !
Does she admire me so much ? No, no, no,
Carina mia. What will he say? Where is
he ? Why doesn't he come ? How slo\\'
he is ! There never was anybody so slow.
I'm in a devil of a scrape ; he always-comes
when I'm in a scrape — devil of a scrape.
Why don't he come ? '

Father ! ' said John softly, and with a
voice full of feeling. He had come in
very quietly and gone noiselessly to Paul,
who had grasped his hand and given place
to him.'

Who are you ? ' cried out the sick
man ; ' who the devil are you ? You're a
dun ; I know you. Take him away. Philip.
why don't you pay him and let him go?
PhiHp!'.

VOL. II. R

Paul started at the sound of his father's
name. He had pulled John back into the
darkness ; for the sick man had made a
vain effort to rise as he stared at his son.
John turned away with a groan, and his
father's voice fell again, calling faintly to
the friend of his youth, ' Philip, why don't
you come to help me ? '

Paul could not speak at the moment ;
this cry to his father seemed to wring his
heart ; he could only stand by the pillow
and lay his large hand on the worn forehead.
The touch was enough.

'Ah! ah! yes,' the sick man said, 'I
knew you'd come. God bless you, Philip —
dear old Philip — God bless you, Phil ! '

To be called to by his father's name sent
a strange thrill through Paul's young blood.
He tried to speak, but he could only mutter

soothing incoherent words, as he smoothed
the pillow and began to tuck in the disordered
blankets. The patient submitted quietly,
but he spoke again presently in a surprised
tone like a child's : ' But I haven't said my
prayers yet,' he said.

God knows to what far day of childhood
the poor took had wandered back. Paul's
soothing words were to him the words of the
nurse, who had helped to spoil the beautiful
child some fifty years ago ; and the hands
which tucked him in were her hands, which
had been motionless almost as honor. Paul
knelt by the bedside, and repeated the prayer
which he had learned, as the poor took had
learned it, at his mother's knee ; and when
lie had finished, the dying man said softly for
Amen — ' God bless you, Phil ! '

Paul dropped his face upon the blanket with

R 2

a sob, and the thin hand moved feebly as if it
would touch his hair. It was the took's last
movement, as the name of the loyal friend,
who was so far away, was his last word.

CHAPTER XXXII.

One afternoon, some fifteen months or more
after Wilfred Maidment's death, Colonel
Brent stood erect with his daughter and his
eldest son beside him, and looked away
across his beloved land. Only a week had
gone since he had come back to Brentholme,
and his heart had not yet tired of giving
silent thanks. Paul stood silent beside his
father, and Letty had stopped her talking to
her brother, hushed by the peaceful beauty
of the scene. It was a September afternoon ;
it seemed the hush of the year. In the
bottom of the valley, where the tiny rives

wound, the night's mist had never wholly
gone ; a drowsy air hung on the valley trees,
and the smoke moved upward slowly. But
on the broad spaces of the park, which lay
towards the south and west, the sunshine had
spread itself like a garment ; the rabbits had
crept out on the sunny side of every copse,
and a covey of partridges lay quiet on the
grass. Where there was an upper growth of
coarser grass, it was almost as yellow as the
stubble in the fields below ; the elms were
flecked with yellow and the beeches tinged
with bronze. Over all — over the whole English
country of valley and sloping field and
free far-rolling down — was a great stillness, in
which it seemed that one might hear the
downfall of the withered leaf. So hastening
one heard the distant twittering of birds, who
had gathered in their autumn companies ;

from far across the valley the bark of a dog
came with a strange distinctness, the crowing
of a cock, the clio of a distant gun. The
perfect stillness, the familiar beauty of the
well-loved place, the thought that they were
together and at home filled the father and his
children with a content too deep for words,
and a sympathy as deep as the content. In
the girl's eyes at least there was a moisture
not far from tears.

They had had a wonderful week, but now
they had done with the strangeness of the
familiar things ; they had packed off the boys
to school ; and on this afternoon, for the first
time, they seemed to have leisure to stand and
look, and to feel that they had come home
again. The boys had been an exciting element.
They had hung on the heels of their
brother from the West, and pestered him with

questions ; he had come back to them like a
hero from a book of Ballantyne — their own
brother and a hero from a book of Ballantyne.
They got few romantic tales from Paul, who
preferred to tell them of hardships and monotony
; but in spite of this there was a disagreement
between Jacky and Teddy as to
which of the two was more fit for the work
of a cow-boy. It was arranged that Jacky
should go to Montana after the next holidays,
and see for himself how he liked it. Dicky
was to go into the navy, and not even dreams
of revolvers and riding all day long could
win him for more than a few hours from his
longing for a life at sea.

Paul had promised to take Jacky to the
West, for he had made up his mind to keep
his interest in the ranch. He had suffered
from a great disappointment. His only object

in going into the cattle business had been
to win enough money to make the letting
of Brentholme no longer necessary ; he had
prospered with his beasts ; he had been very
lucky in his partner ; he had looked forward
through toilsome days and lonely evenings to
the time when he should lead his father home.
Now he stood by his father again in the
familiar place, but it was no money of his
which had brought the thing to pass. He
did not wish that his father's return had been
delayed till his profits had grown greater ; he
had scarce room for anything but joy that
Brentholme was freed from the stranger ; yet
it had been a great disappointment. He confessed
this to Letty, as he would not have confessed
it in former days ; but he never told it
to the Colonel. John Maidment had paid his
father's debt, and Colonel Brent had accepted

the payment. He had decided that he could
not with justice refuse this payment. John
with eager words had spoken of interest for
the loans and of compensation for his own
bringing-up, for which he declared a passionate
gratitude ; but his guardian had become
portentously silent, and a great wave of colour
had come into his face. His lips had locked
themselves so tight, that it had seemed to John
that they would never let out a word again ;
and when John having left this silent man
appealed to Paul, Paul told him frankly that
he must speak no more on the subject — that
it would have been better if he had not spoken
about it at all.

Though the money which John paid to
Colonel Brent made the return to Brent-holme
easy, it made no great hole in the
young man's new fortune. The mine had

been sold in Boston for a large sum ; it is a
good mine, and, unlike some silver mines, has
been profitable to others besides the promoters
of the company. It is a good mine,
but nevertheless John was glad to be out of
it ; an atmosphere of insecurity seemed to
float on the Leadville of his memory. He
brought home a large sum to invest in more
familiar things ; he too was a man with a stake
in the country. The very first use which he
made of his money was to pay Colonel
Brent ; and in less than a year the tenant of
Brentholme made way for the family. No
time was lost in repairs or adornment, and
after a few days of vigorous cleaning and
airing the Colonel was walking up and down
the worn pathway in his study carpet, where
his father had walked before him. He would
have liked to keep Paul for ever by his side ;

but Paul would not, without necessity put
such strict limits to his life. He had gone
into cattle-raising with a single purpose, and
had been disappointed ; but he was now
interested in it for itself, for the wider
horizon, for the air of the plains, for the
responsibility and the chances of decision and
prompt action.

At home there was no work ready to
his hand. His father was one of those who
manage their own affairs. His zeal for a
political life had passed away. He had
turned with distaste from politics when John
consented to stand for the family borough,
and the distaste had not passed away.
Much which he had seen, and more which
he had heard in America, had weakened his
faith in politicians and in political prescriptions
for curing the sins and sufferings of

mankind. He had thought much for himself
in the long solitary hours. To sit silent in
Parliament and to vote for the measures,
sometimes but blundering compromises, of a
party, tempted him as little as a life of race-meetings,
or an annual round of country-house
visits. A great extension of the franchise
was imminent, and he was curious to see how
strong the attack on the landlords of the
country would be. He hoped with all his
heart that in his father's day the coming
change would not be great ; but still it
was no bad thing for the family to have
some other form of property than English
land. And so there were sufficient reasons
which seemed good to Paul why he should
stick to the ranch. He had borne the chief
burden of its first toilsome days, and now
he could leave it for long periods to his

partner, whom he could trust as himself.
But he meant to go often to his beasts and
to the other life, of which they were a part,
and he had consented to take his brother
Jacky, that he too might see for himself if
that manner of life were to his taste.

The calm of that September afternoon
preceded an event which filled the Colonel,
Paul, and Letty, when any one of them
thought of it, with something like alarm.
They were so happy together ; it seemed a
pity that they could not have one more of
these most lovely autumn days for their own
pleasure only. The Colonel put up his chin
with a sudden movement, and asked gruffly
when John's train was due.

John Maidment was coming to make
them a visit with his wife and his baby boy,
a nurse, a maid and a man; and Letty all

the morning had been putting fresh flowers
in the rooms, and wishing perhaps that the
clean chintz were not quite so faded. Still
lie had whistled as she moved about, and
even sung a scrap or two of song, for she
was so glad to be pushing about the old
furniture in the old rooms. To be at home
was joy enough for her, but it was a still
greater joy to see Paul there. She smiled
whenever she looked at him, even whenever
she thought of him ; she told him a great
many things, but she did not tell him how
great her curiosity was to see John Maidment's
wife.

When John Maidment's wife arrived
Letty soon decided that she was to be liked.
She arrived with her wonderful baby and her
suite of attendants, and her husband, who
looked a little bored and a little uncommon

table. She was in great force ; she was
effusive and emphatic, and she lost no time
in proclaiming her love of the Brent family
and of their home. She was immensely
pleased with everybody and everything, and
with Letty most of all.

On the very first evening after dinner,
when they had left the men with their wine,
she declared to the girl that she could not
imagine how John had grown up in the
same house with her without being desperately
in love with her.

Letty blushed, though she had not such
a gift of blushing as her male relations,
and laughed till Lady Gertrude looked at her
with surprise. She could laugh at all that ;
she was glad that she could laugh at all talk
of love ; she thought that she lead left all

that a thousand years away, and that she
should never look at any other young man,
when her brother, the best brother in the
world, was near. She was thankful that this
impulsive lady had not made her embarrassing
remark at dinner.

Lady Gertrude thought Letty all the
more charming for her blushes and her
laughter, and she promptly conferred upon
lier the highest honour, which however she
conferred rather liberally on an ungrateful
world ; she swept her away upstairs to see
tier baby. Indeed Lady Gertrude was so
largely happy, that her philanthropic heart
wished that everyone might have a share.
She had been very unhappy during her
]husband's absence in America ; she had
passed quickly, so soon as she realised that
he had gone, from offended dignity to

VOL. II. s

passionate remorse. When she received the
affectionate letter, in which he told her of
his father's illness, and read in it no word of
rebuke, she had been ready to swear that
her husband had the finest nature in the
world. When he came home she had rushed
into his arms with incoherent confessions of
wickedness, and had sobbed upon his shoulder
till he almost staggered under her emotion.

She had found John very kind and affectionate
; for indeed he felt rather buffeted and
bruised, and found this bounteous gift of
love and admiration very much to his taste.
And the admiration seemed to last as well as
the love, and to admit of as little question.
She put him up on a pedestal much higher
than that which he had occupied in the first
year of their marriage ; and if she ever
doubted his perfection, she gave nobody a

right to suspect it, expect perhaps by a too
eager and too defiant assertion of his absolute
wisdom and goodness. Indeed she had
found a formula which explained all things to
her satisfaction. If anything looked like a
blemish, it merely proved that John was a
man of genius. The nerves and the tempers
of men of genius were not to be judged by
the same rules as the nerves and tempers of
common men. She was the wife of a man of
genius ; his genius required no proof ; everybody
was beginning to admit it. Indeed it
is a fact that when John had come back from
the wilds with a fortune instead of a father,
there was much more talk of his extraordinary
ability ; and to say that all the world
were talking of his talents was a pardonable
exaggeration in a wife. Lady Gertrude
bragged of her husband ; and then, as a crown
VOL. n. * s 2

of her triumphant happiness, lier son was
born, and lie bragged of her baby. Letty
loved her for her enthusiasm and generosity ;
and she on her side proclaimed that Letty
was the sweetest girl that ever lived, and was
mightily indignant when Paul laughed.

John was not so comfortable at Brent-holme
as his wife. The places was too full of
memories, which his quick mind could not
avoid ; and his head was too full of politics,
about which he could not speak. He was
still member for that moribund little borough
at the gates, and, whenever he thought of
that fact, he fancied that Paul's clear eyes
observed him with disapproval. He could
not expatiate on men and measures to these
taciturn folk, and he was thinking so much of
the future of parties, that the silence was
almost a pain in the jaws, He was obliged

to go away alone, to walk quick, and to mutter
convincing arguments and fragments of denunciation.
The fragments of denunciation were
directed against the Tory party, some members
of which had been trying on some of the
newest Liberal clothes ; for John had clean
forgotten that he had ever thought it possible
that he might become a Conservative. Master
of a fine fortune of his own, he felt independent
for ever of all Boucherett influence, and less
sensitive to the coolness of Liberal leaders.
Moreover this coolness was a thing of the
past ; the chiefs of the party had been uncommonly
civil ; perhaps in the ears of even
these exalted persons eloquence has a richer
sound when it is not the eloquence alone
which is golden. This young man could
afford to be independent ; he was undeniably
clever; and he had money to spend. John

had responded to the advances of his leaders
with frankness and \\ath grace. He was
confident that the extension of the franchise
would be followed by a decisive Liberal victory
at the polls. He was equally confident
that, whatever the ingredients of the next
Liberal Cabinet might be, it was the Eadical
section of the party which was the growing
power. He was ready to throw in his lot
with the Eadicals ; he had no doubt that he,
with his full pocket and reputation for speaking,
would be sought by more than one of
the new constituencies ; he meant to choose
one where bold opinions and yet bolder language
would meet with the fullest sympathy.
He remembered the fine flights of his Eadical
eloquence in the Oxford Union ; he longed
for the applause of the crowd and the long
i*oll of the sonorous peroration .

With burning thoughts kept under and
with rising words pressed down, it is no
wonder that John Maidment was uneasy in
the quiet autumn days and with these quiet
people. It seemed as if Nature herself had
become a member of the Brent family. John
was eager for the fray and eager to show his
value as a combatant — eager too of course to
contribute to the welfare of the people. He
would have flashed into wrath had anyone
said that he was less zealous for the good of
the nation or of mankind than in the eiferves-
king Oxford days ; but perhaps he would have
admitted that he saw more clearly the necessity
of belonging to a party and of rising
high in its ranks. It was for the good of the
nation that he should rise to power ; it was
but natural that at present he should be mainly
occupied with the study of means of rising

His mind was busy with programmes and with
compromises ; he wanted the society of those
whose minds were busy with these same
affairs ; he felt a restless desire to discuss, to
persuade, to speak. At Brentholme he went
about with a gag in his mouth, until at last in
desperation he began to foUoAv his wife to her
room, and to pour forth his views and his
expectations half to her and half to the
window or the ceiling.

Lady Gertrude listened with bountiful
admiration, and gave to him almost as much
attention as to the baby. To her Boucherett
ears some of his talk sounded wild ; but she
reminded herself that he was a man of genius,
and her philanthropic heart was almost ready
to believe that, if her husband had his way,
the capitalist would lie down with the
workman and the Golden acre return. Perhaps

to the young mother, looking in the
face of the first-born, the Golden age was
come.

We ought to get away,' said John ; ' I
ought to be where I can talk it over and get
at the real moves which are to be made.
Here there's not a soul to whom I can speak
about these things.'

The end of this speech was not quite
agreeable to Lady Gertrude ; but so placid
was she and so full of admiration, that she
made no comment on it save by the smallest
sigh, and a hardly perceptible wriggle of the
shoulders.

Of course, darling,' she said, ' it is very
annoying for you. Of course the Brents
would not understand you if you talked to
them.'

Oh, there's nothing that's hard to understand,'

cried out John impatiently ; 'it isn't
that, and the Brents aren't fools.'

Well, then, why ' began Lady

Gertrude, but her tone had vexed him, and
he broke out impetuously :

'I do wish you wouldn't talk of the
Brents as if they were wanting. They are
extraordinary people, and it's silly not to see
it. Paul saved my life for one thing. Paul
is one in a thousand ; he would face any
danger, any death for his friend, or his family,,
or his country — or for mere duty. I tell you
that Paul is a wonderful fellow ; I tell you I
sometimes feel small beside him and think
him much better than I.'

Oh, John,' cried his wife, ' how ridiculous
! You know how I like the Brents !
They are so nice and natural, but there are
thousands of people like that. Of course

they are brave and good and all that, but so
are lots of Englishmen. There is only one
John Maidment.'

John laughed and touched her lightly on
the cheek. He laughed, as if her words were
absurd, but he liked their sound — ' There is
only one John Maidment.'

THE END.

PRINTED BY

.SrOTTIsWOODE AND CO., NEW-street Soleure

LONDON

PUBLISHED BY

Messes. LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO.

Paternoster EOW, LONDON.

HISTORY, POLITICS, HISTORICAL MEMOIRS, ^c.

Arnold's Lectures on Modern History. 8vo. 7s. 6d.

Beaconsfield's (Lord) Speeches, edited by KebbeL 2 vols. 8vo. 326-.

Boultbee's History of the Church of England, Pre-Reformation Period. 8vo. 15s.

Cranston & Leroy's Historic Winchester. Crown 8vo, chuckle's

History of Civilisation. 3 vols, crown 8vo. 245.

Cheney's "Waterloo Lectures. 8vo. 10s. 6d.

Cox's (Sir G. W.) General History of Greece. Crown 8vo. Maps, 7s. 6d.

— Lives of Greek Statesmen. Fcp. 8vo , 25. 6d.
Creighton's History of the Papacy during the Reformation. 2 vols. 8vo. 32*.
De Tocqueville's Democracy in America, translated by Reeve. 2 vols, crown

8vo. 165.
Doyle's English in America. 8vo. I85.

Epochs of English History, complete in One Volume. Fcp. 8vo. 55.
Epochs of Ancient History : —

Beesly's Gracchus, Marius, and Sulla, 25. 6d.

Capes's Age of the Antonius, 25. 6d.

Early Roman Empire, 25. 6d.
Cox's Athenian Empire, 25. 6d.

Greeks and Persians, 25. Gd.

Curtis's Rise of the Macedonian Empire, 25. 6d.
Ihne's Rome to its Captive by the Gauls, 25. 6d.
Derivable's Roman Triumvirate, 25. 6cZ.
Sankey's Spartan and Theban Supremacy, 25. Gd.
Smith's Rome and Carthage, the Punic Wars, 25. Gd.
Epochs of Modem History : —

Church's Beginning of the Middle Ages, 25. Gd.

Cox's Crusades, 25. Gd.

Creighton's Age of Elizabeth, 25. Gd.

Gardner's Houses of Lancaster and York, 25. Gd.

Gardiner's Puritan Revolution, 25. Gd.

Thirty Years' War, 25. Gd.

(Mrs.) French Revolution, 1789-1795, 25. Gd.
Hale's Fall of the Stuart, 25. Gd.

Johnson's Normans in Europe, 25. Gd.

Longman's Frederick the Great and the Seven Years' War, 25. Gd.

Ludlow's War of American Independence, 25. Gd.

M'Carthy's Epoch of Reform, 1830-1850, 25. 6d.

MoiTia's Age of Queen Aime, 25. Gd.

Seebohm's Protestant Revolution, 25. Gd.

Stubbs's Early Plant agents, 25. Gd.

Warburton's Edward UL, 25. Gd.

London: LONGMANS. GEEEN, & CO.

Freeman's Historical Geography of Europe. 2 vols. 8vo. 315. 6d.
Froude's English in Ireland in the 18th Century. 3 vols, crown 8vo. 185.

History of England. Popular Edition. 12 vols, crown 8vo. 35. 6(f. each.
Gardiner's History of England from the Accession of James I. to the Outbreak
• of the Civil War. 10 vols. crown 8vo. GOs.

Outline of English History, B.C. 55-a.d. 1880. Fcp. 8vo. 2s. e^
Grant's (Sir Alex.) The Story of the University of Edinburgh. 2 vols. 8vo. 36*.
Greville's Journal of the Eeigus of George IV. & William IV. 3 vols. 8vo. 36*.
Dickson's Ireland in the Seventeenth Century. 2 vols. 8vo. 28^.

Lecky's History of England. Vols. 1 & 2, 1700-1760, 8vo. 36s. Vols. 3 & 4,
1760-1784, Svo. 365.

History of European Morals. 2 vols, crown 8vo. I65.

— — Rationalism in Europe. 2 vols, crown Svo. Cleavers

of Public Opinion in Ireland. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.
Longman's Lectui-es on the History of England. Svo. 15s.

Life and Times of Edward III. 2 vols. Svo. 285.
macaulay's Complete Works. Library Edition. 8 vols. Svo. £5. 55.

— — Cabinet Edition. 16 vols, crown Svo. £4. I65.

History of England : —

Student's Edition. 2 vols. cr. Svo. 125. I Cabinet Edition. 8 vols, post Svo. 485.
People's Edition. 4 vols. cr. Svo. I65. | Library Edition. 5 vols. Svo. £4.

macaulay's Critical and Historical Essays, with Lays of Ancient Some In One
Volume : —

Authorised Edition. Cr. 8vo. 25. 6d. I Popular Edition. Cr. Svo. 25. 6d.
or 35. 6d. gilt edges. |

Macaulay's Critical and Historical Essays : —

Student's Edition. 1 volsci. Svo. 65. 1 Cabinet Edition. 4 vols, post Svo. 245.
People's Edition. 2 vols. cr. Svo. 85. | Library Edition. 3 vols. Svo. 365.
Macaulay's Speeches corrected by Himself. Crown Svo. 35. 6d.
Salisbury's (Earl of) Memoirs of an Ex-minister. Crown Svo. 75. 6d.
Maxwell's (Sir W. S.) Don John of Austria. Library Edition, with numerous

Illustrations. 2 vols, royal Svo. 425.
May's Constitutional History of England, 1760-1870. 3 vols, crown Svo. I85.

Democracy in Europe. 2 vols. Svo. 325.
Derivable's Fall of the Roman EepubUc. 12mo. 75. 6d.

General History of Rome, B.C. 753-a.d. 476. Crown Svo. 75. Hd.

History of the Romans under the Empire. 8 vols, post Svo. 485.
Noble's The Russian Revolt. Fcp. 8vo. 55.

Rawlinson's Seventh Great Oriental Monarchy— The Sassafras. Svo. 28*.
Seebohm's Oxford Reformers— Colet. Erasmus. & More. Svo. 145.
Short's History of the Church of England. Crown Svo. 75. Gd.
Smith's Cartilage and the Carthaginian. Crown Svo. 10s. 6d.
Taylor's Manual of the History of India. Crown 8vo. 75. 6d.
Walpole's History of England, 1815-1841. 3-rots. Svo. £2. 145.
Wye's History of England inter Henry IV. Vol. 1, crown Svo. Io. Gd.

BIOGRAPHICAL WORKS.

Bacon's Life and Letters, by Spending. 7 vols. Svo. £4. 45.
Bagehot's Biographical Studies. 1 voL Svo. 125.

London, LONGMANS, GEEEN, & CO.

Bray's (Charles) Autobiography. Crown Svo. 5s. Sd.

Carlyle's Life, by Froude. Vols. 1 & 2, 1795-1835, Svo. 325. Vols. 3 & 4,
1834-1881, Svo. 325.

(Mrs.) Letters and Memorials. 3 vols. Svo. 365.
Crimson's (Hon. R.) Life, by F. Gale. Crown Svo. Io. ed.
Hamilton's (Sir W. R.) Life, by Graves. Vols. 1 and 2, Svo. I05. each.
Havelock's Life, by Mai'shman. Crown Svo. 3*. &d.

Macaulay's (I^rd) Life and Letters. By his Nephew, G. Otto Trevelyan, M.P.

Popular Edition, 1 vol. crown Svo. 6s. Cabinet Edition, 2 vols, post Svo.

125. Library Edition, 2 vols. Svo. 365.
Mendelssohn's Letters. Translated by Lady Wallace. 2 vols. or. Svo. 55. each.
Mill (James) Biography of, by Prof. Bain. Crown Svo. 55.

(John Stuai-t) Recollections of, by Prof. Bain. Crown Svo. 25. 6d.

— Autobiography. Svo. 7s. 6d.

Motley's Reminiscences of Oriel College. 2 vols, crown Svo. Is.

— — Towns, Villages, and Schools. 2 vols. cr. Svo. 18*.
Muller's (Max) Biographical Essays. Crown Svo. 75. 6c;.

Newman's Apologia pro Vita Sua. Crown Svo. 65.

Pasolini's (Count) Memoir, by lus Son. Svo. IG5.

Pasteur (Louis) His Life and Labours. Crown Svo. 75. 6d.

Shakespeare's Life (Outlines of), by Halliwell-Phillipps. Royal Svo. 75. 6d.

Southey's Correspondence with Caroline Bowles. Svo. 145.

Stephen's Essays in Ecclesiastical Biography. Crown Svo. 75. 6d.

Taylor's (Sir Henry) Autobiography. 2 vols. Svo. 325.

Telfer's The Strange Career of the Chevalier D'Eon de Beaumont. Svo. 125.

Trevelyan's Early History of Charles James Fox. Crown Svo. 65.

Wellington's Life, by Gleig. Crown Svo. 65.

MENTAL AND POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY, FINANCE, &C.

Amos's View of the Science of .Jurisprudence. Svo. I85.

Fifty Tears of the English Constitution. 1S30-1880. Crown Svo. Io. 6d.

Primer of the English Constitution. Crown Svo. ds.
Bacon's Essays, with Annotations by Lately. Svo. Io. Gd.

Works, edited by Spending. 7 vols. Svo. 735. 6^^.
Bagehot's Economic Studies, edited by Sutton. Svo. Io. Gd.

The Postulates of English Political Economy. Crown Svo. 25. Gd.
Bain's Logic, Deductive and Inductive. Crown Svo. Io. Gd.

Part I. Deduction, 45. j Part II. Induction, 65. 6^.

Mental and Moral Science. Crown Svo. Io. Gd.

The Senses and the Intellect. Svo. 155.

The Emotions and the Will. Svo. 155.

Practical Essays. Crown Svo. 45. Gd.
Crozier's Civilization and Progress. Svo. 145.

Crump's A Short Enquiry into the Formation of English Political Opinion.

Svo. 75. Gd.
Lowell's A History of Taxation and Taxes in England. 4 vols. Svo. 485.
Green's (Thomas Hill) Works. (3 vols.) Vol. 1, Philosophical Works. Svo. I65,

London, LONGMANS, GEEEN, & CO.

Hume's Essays, edited by Green & Rose. 2 vols. 8vo. 285.

Treatise of Human Nature, edited by Green & Rose. 2 vols. 8vo. 28*.
Lang's Custom and :irytli : Studies of Early Usage and Belief. Crown Svo. 75. 6d.
Leslie's Essays in Political and Moral Philosophy. Svo. Io. Gd.

Lewes's History Philosophy. 2 vols. Svo. 32.?.

List's Natural System of Political Economy, translated by S. T.lv/^', M.P.

Svo. Io. 6d.
Lubbock's Origin of Civilisation. Svo. I85.

Macleod's Principles of Economical Philosophic. In 2 vols. Tol. 1, Svo. 155.
Vol. 2, Part 1. 125.

The Elements of Economics. In 2 vols. Vol. 1, crown Svo. 75. Gd.

The Elements of Banking. Crown Svo. 55.

The Theory and Practice of Banking. Vol. 1, Svo. 125.

Elements of Political Economy. Svo. I65.

Economics for Beginners. Svo. 25. 6d.

Lectures on Credit and Banking. Svo. 55,

Mill's (James) Analysis of the Phenomena of the Human Mind. 2 vols. Svo. 28*.
Mill (John Stuart) on Representative Government. Crown Svo. 25.

— on Liberty. Crown Svo. 1 5. 4d.

— Dissertations and Discussions. 4 vols. Svo, 465, 6d.

— Essays on Unsettled Questions of Political Economy. Svo.

65. 6d.

— Examination of Hamilton's Philosophy. Svo. I65.

— Logic. 2 vols. Svo. 255. People's Edition, 1 vol. or. Svo. 55.

— Principles of Political Economy. 2 vols, Svo, 305. People's

Edition, 1 vol, crown Svo. 55.

— Subjection of "Women, Crown Svo. 65.

— Utilitarianism, Svo. 55,

— Three Essays on Religion, &c, Svo, 55.
Millers Fen wick) Readings in Social Economy. Crown Svo, 25.
Sanders's Institutes of Justinian, with English Notes, Svo. I85.
Seebohm's English Village Community. Svo. 16*.

Sully's Outlines of Psychology, Svo, 125, 6d.

Swinburne's Picture Logic. Post Svo. 5*.

Thompson's A System of Psychology. 2 vols. Svo. 36*.

Thomson's Outline of Necessary Laws of Thought, Crown Svo, 6*.

Swiss's Law of Nations in Time of "War. Svo. 21 5.

— in Time of Peace. Svo. 15*.

"Web's The Veil of Isis. Svo. Io. Gd.
"Lately's Elements of Logic. Crown Svo. 45. Gd.

— — Rhetoric. Crown Svo. 45. Gd.
Wylie's Labour, Leisure, and Luxury, Crown Svo. 6*.

Seller's History of Eclecticism in Greek Philosophy, Crown Svo. Io. Gd.

Plato and the Older Academy. Crown Svo, I85,

Pre-Socratic Schools. 2 vols, crown Svo. 305.

Socrates and the Socratic Schools, Crown Svo. Io. Gd.

Stoics, Epicurean, and Sceptics. Crown Svo. 155.

London, L0XG:\IAXS, GEEEN, «fe CO.

MISCELLANEOUS WORKS.

A. E. H. B., The Essays and Contributions of. Crown Svo.

Autumn Holidays of a Country Parson. 3.?. 6d.

Changed Aspects of Unchanged Truths. 3.?. 6^^/.

Common-place Philosopher in Town and Country. Zs. 6d.

Critical Essays of a Country Parson. 3s. 6d.

Counsel and Comfort spoken from a City Pulpit. 3*-. 6^7.

Graver Thoughts of a Country Parson, Three Series. 3^ Gd. each.

Landscapes, Churches, and moralities. 35. 6^.

Leisure Hours in Town, 35. Qd. Lessons of Middle Age. 35. 6d.

Our Little Life. Essays Consolatory and Domestic, Two Series. 'Ss.6d.

Present-day Thoughts, 35. Gd. [each.

Recreations of a Country Parson. Three Series. 35. 6d. each.

Seaside Musings on Sundays and Week-Days . S.f. Gd.

Sunday Afternoons in the Parish Church of a University City. 35. Qd.
Arnold's (Dr. Thomas) Miscellaneous Works. Svo. 7s. 6c/.
Bagehot's Literary Studies, edited by Sutton. 2 vols, Svo, 285.
Beaconsfield (Lord), The Wit and Wisdom of. Crown Svo. 35. Gd.

(The) Birthday Book, ISmo. 25. 6(7. cloth ; 45, Gd. bound,

Evans's Bronze Implements of Great Britain, Svo. 255,
Farrar's Language and Languages. Crown Svo. 65.
French's Nineteen Centuries of Drink in England. Crown Svo. 105. Gd.
Fronde's Short Studies on Great Subjects. 4 vols, crown Svo. 245.
Macaulay's Miscellaneous Writings, 2 vols, Svo, 2l5. 1 vol. crown Svo, 45. Gd.

Miscellaneous Writings and Speeches. Crown Svo. 6.;.

Miscellaneous Writings, Speeches, Lays of Ancient Rome, &c.

Cabinet Edition. 4 vols, crown Svo. 245.

Writings, Selections from. Crown Svo. 65.

Miller's (Mas) Lectures on the Science of Language. 2 vols, crown Svo. I65,

— Lectures on India, Svo, 125. 6c7.

Smith (Sydney) The Wit and Wisdom of. Crown Svo. 35. Gd.

ASTRONOMY,

Herschel's Outlines of Astronomy. Square crown Svo. 125,

Nelson's Work oa the Moon. Medium Svo, 3l5, 6d.

Proctor's Larger Star Atlas. Folio, 155. or Maps only, 125. Gd.

New Star Atlas, Crown Svo. 55. Orbs Around Us. Crown Svo. 75. Gd,

Light Science for Leisure Hours. 3 Series, Crown Svo, 75. Gd. each.

Moon, Crown Svo. Io. Gd.

Myths and Marvels of Astronomy. Crown Svo. 65.

Other Worlds than Ours, Crown Svo, Io, Gd.

Sun. Crown Svo. 145, Universe of Stars. Svo. Io, Gd.

Transits of Venus, Svo. 85. Gd. Studies of Venus-Transits, Svo, 55,
Webb's Celestial Objects for Common Telescopes. Crown Svo. 95,

The Sun and his Phenomena. Fcp. Svo. I5.

THE 'KNOWLEDGE' LIBRARY.

Edited by PlIC HARD A. PrxOCTOU,
How to Play Whist, By Five of Clubs (II. A, Proctor), Cro^vn Svo. 55,
The Borderland of Science. By R. A. Proctor, Crown Svo. 65.
Science Byways, By R. A, Proctor, Crown Svo. 65,
The Poetry of Astronomy, By R. A. Proctor. Crown Svo, 65.
Nature Studies, Reprinted from Knowledge. By Grant Allen, Andrew Wilson,

&c. Crown Svo. 65.
Leisure Readings. Reprinted from Knowledge. By Edward Cloud, Andrew

Wilson, &c. Crown Svo. 65,
The Stars in their Seasons. By R. A. Proctor. Imperial Svo, 55.

London, LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO.

CLASSICAL LANGUAGES AND LITERATURE.

^schylns, The Energies of. Test-with Metrical English Tr«-^jiatiou, by

J. F. Davies. 8vo. 75.
Aristophanes' The Athenians, translated by R. Y. Tyrrel. Crown 8vo. 2*. 6d.
Aristotle's The Ethics, Text and Notes, by Sir Alex. Grant, Bart. 2 vols. 8vo. 325 .

The Nicomacheau Ethics, translated by 'Williams, crown 8vo. 75. Gd.

The Politics, Books I. III. IV. (VII.) with Translation, &c. by

Holland and Laugh. Crown Svo. 75. 6d.
Decker's Charades and Gallus, by Metcalf. Post sto. 7s. 6d. each.
Cicero's Correspondence, Text and Notes, by R. Y. Tyrrel. Vol. 1, Svo. 125.
Homer's Iliad, Geometrically translated by Cayley. Svo. 125. 6d.

— Greek Text, with Verse Translation, by W. C. Green. Vol. 1,
Books I.-XII. Crown Svo. 65.

Mahaffv's Classical Greek Literature. Crown Svo. Vol. 1, The Poets, 75. 6d.

Vol. 2, The Prose Writers, 75. Gd.
Plato's Parmenides, with Notes, &c. by J. 3Iaguire. Svo. 75. Gd.
Simcox's Latin Literature. 2 vols. Svo. 325.
Sophocles' Tragedies Superstition, by Logwood. Svo. 165.
Virgil's "Works, Latin Text, with Commentary, by Kennedy. Crown Svo. Io. Gd.

Joined, translated into English Verse, by Dodington. Crown Svo. 95.

Poems, — — — Prose, — — Crown Svo. 95.
Witt's Myths of Hellas, translated by F. M. Younghusband. Crown Svo. 35. 6d.

The Trojan War, — — Fcp. Svo. 25.

The Wanderings of Ulysses, — Crown Svo. 35. Gd.

NATURAL HISTORY, BOTANY, & GARDENING.

Allen's Flowers and their Pedigrees. Crown Svo. Woodcuts, 75. Gd.
Decline and Le Maout's General System of Botany. Imperial Svo. 3l5. Gd.
Dixon's Rural Bird Life. Crown Svo. Illustrations, 55.
Earwig's Aerial World, Svo. Io. Gd. Polar World, Svo. Io. Gd.

Sea and its Living Wonders. Svo. Io. Gd.

Subterranean World, Svo. Io. Gd. Tropical World, Svo. Io. Gd.
Lindsey's Treasury of Botany. Fcp. Svo. 65.

London's Encyclopaedia of Gardening. Svo. 2l5.

— Plants. Svo. 425.
Rivers's Orchard House. Crown Svo. 55.

Rose Amateur's Guide. Fcp. Svo. 45. Gd.
Stanley's Familiar History of British Birds. Crown Svo. 65.
Wood's Bible Animals. With 112 Vignettes. Svo. Io. 6d.

Common British Insects. Crown Svo. 35. 6 c?.

Homes Without Hands, Svo. Io. Gd. Insects Abroad, Svo. 105. Gd.

Insects at Home. With 700 Illustrations. Svo. Io. 6c?.

Out of Doors. Crown Svo. 55.

Pentland Revisited. Crown Svo. 75. Gd.

Strange Dwellings. Crown Svo. 55. Popular Edition, 4to. Gd.

London, LONGMANS, GEEEN, & CO.

THE FINE ARTS AND ILLUSTRATED EDITIONS.

Dresses Arts and Art Manufactures of Japan. Square crown 8vo. 31s, Gd.
Eastlake's (Lady) Five Great Painters. 2 vols, crown Svo. I65.

Household Taste in Furniture, &c. Square crown Svo. 145.

Notes on the Breda Galloway, Milan, Crown Svo. 5^.

Notes on the Louvre Gallery, Paris. Crown Svo. 7*. Gd.
Notes on the Old Piuacothek, Munich. Crown Svo. 7*. 6d.

Jameson's Sacred and Legendary Art. 6 vols, square Svo.
Legends of the Madonna. 1 vol. 21s.

— — Monastic Orders 1 vol. 21s.

— — Saints and Martyrs. 2 vols. dls. 6d.

— — Saviour. Completed by Lady Eastlake. 2 vols. 425.
Macaulay's Lays of Ancient Rome, illustrated by Scarf. Fcp. 4to. Io. 6d.
The same, with Ivr-y and the Armada, illustrated by Weguelin. Crown Svo. 35. Gd,
Moore's Irish Melodies. With lOl Plates by D. MacUse, R. A. Super-royal Svo. 2l5 .

Lata Rooks, illustrated by Tenniel. Square crowTi Svo. Io. Gd.

New Testament (The) illustrated with Woodcuts after Paintings by the Early

Masters. 4to. 2l5. cloth, or 425. morocco.
Perry on Greek and Roman Sculpture. With 280 Illustrations engraved on

Wood. Square crown Svo. 3l5. Gd.

CHEMISTRY, ENGINEERING, 8c GENERAL SCIENCE.

Amott's Elements of Physics or Natural Philosophy. Crown Svo. 125. Gd.
Bourne's Catechism of the Steam Engine. Crown Svo. 75. Gd.

Examples of Steam, Air, and Gas Engines. 4to. 705.

Handbook of the Steam Engine. Fcp. Svo. 95.

Recent Improvements in the Steam Engine. Fcp. Svo. 65.

Treatise on the Steam Engine. 4to. 425.

Button's Our Dwellings, Healthy and Unhealthy. Crown Svo. 35. 6(7.

Culled's Handbook of Practical Telegraphy. Svo. I65.

Fairbaim's Useful Information for Engineers. 3 vols, crown Svo. 31 5. Gd.

Mills and Millwork. 1 vol. Svo. 2.55.

G-anot's Elementary Treatise on Physics, by Atkinson. Large crown Svo. 155.

Natural Philosophy, by Atkinson. Crown Svo. 75. Gd.
Grove's Correlation of Physical Forces. Svo. 155,
Houghton's Six Lectures on Physical Geography. Svo. 155.
Her's Primaeval World of Switzerland. 2 vols. Svo. 125.
Helmholtz on the Sensations of Tone. Royal Svo. 2S5.

Helmholtz's Lectures on Scientific Subjects. 2 vols, crown Svo. 75. Gd. each.
Hullah's Lectures on the History of Modern Music. Svo. 85. Gd.

Transition Period of Musical History. Svo. Io. Gd.
Jackson's Aid to Engineering Solution. Royal Svo. 2I5.

Ago's Inorganic Chemistry, Theoretical and Practical. Fcp. Svo. 25.
Keel's Metallurgy, adapted by Crookes and Rohrig. 3 vols. Svo. £4. 195.
Kolbe's Short Text-book of Inorganic Chemistry. Crown Svo. 75. Gd.
Lloyd's Treatise on Magnetism. Svo. Io. Gd.
Magister's Zoology and Morphology of Vertebrate Animals. Svo. Io. 6c?.

London, LONGMANS, Green, & CO.

Macfarren's Lectures on Harmony. 8vo. 1 2s.

Miller's Elements of Chemistry, Theoretical and Practical. 3 vols. 8vo. Part I.

Chemical Physics, 16*. Part II. Inorganic Chemistry, 24^. P«-l HI. Organic

Chemistry, price 31^. 6^.
Mitchell's Manual of Practical Assaying. 8vo. 3l5. Gd. «

Northcott's Lathes and Turning. Svo. Miss.
Owen's Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of the Vertebrate Animals.

3 vols. Svo. 735. 6d.
Payer's Industrial Chemistry. Edited by B. H. Paul, Ph.D. Svo. 425.
Hesse's Art of Perfumery. Square crown Svo. 2l5.
Reynolds's Experimental Chemistry. Pep. Svo. Part I. l5. 6d. Part II. 25. 6d.

Part III. 35. 6(f.
Scheme's Spectrum Analysis. Svo. 3l5. 6d.
Bennett's Treatise on the Marine Steam Engine. Svo. 2l5.
Smith's Air and Vain. Svo. 245.

Wanton's Electric Lighting : Its Principles and Practice. Crown Svo. 55.
Tilted's Practical Chemistry. Pep. Svo. Is. 6d.
Tyndall's Faraday as a Discoverer. Crown Svo. 35. 6d.

Floating Matter of the Air. Crown Svo. 75. 6d.

Fragments of Science. 2 vols, post Svo. Cheat

a Mode of Motion. Crown Svo. 125.

Lectures on Light delivered in America. Crown Svo. 75. M.

Lessons n Electricity. Crown Svo. 25. 6<f.

Notes on Electrical Phenomena. Crown Svo. l5. sewed, I5. 6c?. cloth.

Notes of Lectures on Light. Crown Svo. I5. sewed, I5. 6d. cloth.

Sound, with Frontispiece and 203 Woodcuts. Crown Svo. Io. 6c?.
Watts's Dictionary of Chemistry. 9 vols, medium Svo. £15. 25. 6c?.
"Wilson's Manual of Health-Science. Crown Svo. 25. 6c?.

THEOLOGICAL AND RELIGIOUS WORKS.

Arnold's (Rev. Dr. Thomas) Sermons. 6 vols, crown Svo. 55. each.

Boultbee's Commentary on the 39 Articles. Crown Svo. 65.

Browne's (Bishop) Exposition of the 39 Articles. Svo. Pigs.

Calvert's Wife's Manual. Prayers, Thoughts, and Songs. Crown Svo. 65.

Coles on the Pentateuch and Book of Joshua. Crown Svo. 65.

Wonder's Handbook of the Bible. Post Svo. 75. 6c?.

Conybeare & Hobson's Life and Letters of St. Paul :—

Library Edition, with all the Original Illustrations, Maps, Landscapes on

Steel, Woodcuts. &c. 2 vols. 4to. 425.
Intermediate Edition, with a Selection of Maps, Plates, and Woodcuts.

2 vols, square crown 8vo. 2l5.
Student's Edition, revised and condensed, with 46 Illustrations and Maps.
1 vol. crown Svo. 75. 6cZ.
Davidson's Introduction to the Study of the New Testament. 2 vols. Svo. sos.
Edersheim's Life and Times of Jesus the Messiah. 2 vols. Svo. 425.

Prophecy and History in relation to the Messiah. Svo. 125.

Ellicott's (Bishop) Commentary on St. Paul's Epistles. Svo. Galatians, 85. 6c?.
Ephesians, 85. 6c?. Pastoral Epistles, Io. 6c?. Philippians, Colossians and
Philemon, Io. 6c?. Thessalonians, 75. 6d.

London, LONGMANS, GEEEN, & CO.

Ellicott's Lectures on the Life of our Lord. 8vo. 12*.

Ewald's Antiquities of Israel, translated by Solly. 8vo. 1 '2s. M.

History of Israel, translated by Carpenter & Smith. Vols. 1-7, 8vo. £5.
Hobart's Medical Language of St. Luke. 8vo. 16*.

Hopkins's Christ the Consoler. Fcp. 8vo. 2^. 6d.
Jukes's New Man and the Eternal Life. Crown 8vo. 6.*.

Second Death and the Restitution of air Things. Crown 8vo. 3^. 6d.

Types of Genesis. Crown 8vo. 75. 6d.

The Mystery of the Kingdom. Crown 8vo. 3.?. Gd.

Lyra Germania : Hymns translated by Miss ^7inkworth. Fcp. 8vo. 6s.
Macdonald's (G.) Unspoken Sermons. Second Series. Crown Svo. 75. 6d.
Manning's Temporal Mission of the Holy Ghost. Crown 8vo. 85. 6<f.
Martineau's Endeavours after the Christian Life. Crown 8vo. 75. Gd.

Hymns of Praise and Prayer. Crown 8vo. 45. 6d. 32mo. I5. Gd.

Sermons, Hours of Thought on Sacred Things. 2 vols. 75. Gd. each.
Morsel's Spiritual Songs for Sundays and Holidays. Fcp. Svo. 55. 18mo. 2s.
Muller's (Max) Origin and Growth of Religion. Crown Svo. 75. Gd.

— Science of Religion. Crown Svo. 75. Gd.
Xewman's Apologia pro Vita Sua. Crown Svo. 65.

The Idea of a University Defined and Illustrated. Crown Svo. 75.

Historical Sketches. 3 vols, crown Svo. 65. each.

Discussions and Arguments on Various Subjects. Crown Svo. 65.

An Essay on the Development of Christian Doctrine. Crown Svo. 65.

Certain Difficulties Felt by Anglicans in Catholic Teaching Considered.

Vol. 1, crown Svo. 7s. Gd. Vol. 2, crown Svo. 55. Gd,

The Via Media of the Anglican Church, Illustrated in Lectures, &c.

2 vols, crown Svo. 65. each

Essays, Critical and Historical. 2 vols, crown Svo. 125.

Essays on Biblical and on Ecclesiastical Miracles. Crown Svo. 65.

An Essay in Aid of a Grammar of Assent. 75. Gd.
Rogers's Eclipse of Faith. Fcp. Svo. 55.

Defence of the Eclipse of Faith. Fcp. Svo. 35. Gd.
Sewell's (Miss) Sight Lessons from Scripture. 32mo. 35. Gd.

— Passing Thoughts on Religion. Fnp. Svo. 35. Gd.

— Preparation for the Holy Communion. 32mo. 35.
Smith's Voyage and Shipwreck of St. Paul. Crown Svo. 75. Gd.
Supernatural Religion. Complete Edition. 3 vols. Svo. 365.

Taylor's (jeremy) Entire Works. With Life by Bishop Heber. Edited by the
Rev. C. P. Eden. 10 vols. Svo. £5. 55.

TRAVELS, ADVENTURES, 8cc.

Abridge's Ranch Notes in Kansas, Colorado, &c. Crown 8vo. 55.
Alpine Club (The) Map of Switzerland. In Four Sheets. 425.
Baker's Eight Years in Ceylon. Crown Svo. 55.

Rifle and Hound in Ceylon. Crown Svo. 55.
Ball's Alpine Guide. 3 vols, post Svo. with Maps and Illustrations : — I. Western

Alps, 65. Gd. II. Central Alps, 75. Gd. III. Eastern Alps, Io. Gd.
Ball on Alpine Travelling, and on the Geology of the Alps, I5.

London, LONC^MANS, GEEEN, & CO.

General Lists of Works.

Bent's The Cyclades, or Life among the Insular Greeks. Crown Svo. 12s. 6d.
Brasses's Sunshine and Storm in the East. Crown Svo. 75. 6d.

Voyage in the Yacht ' Sunbeam.' Crown Svo. 7s. 6d. School Edition,

fcp. Svo. 25. Popular Edition, 4to. 6d.

In the Trades, the Tropics, and the 'Roaring Forties.' Edition de

Luxe, Svo. £3. 135. Gd. Library Edition, Svo.2l5.
Cra^v£ord's Across the Pampas and the Andes. Crown Svo. 75. 6d.
Dent's Above the Snow Line. Crown Svo. 75. 6d.
Hassan's San Nemo Critically considered. Crown Svo. 55.
Hewitt's Visits to Remarkable PI ices. Crown Svo. 75. Gd.
Maritime Alps (The) and their Seaboard. By the Author of ' Vera.' Svo. 2l5.
Miller's "Wintering in the Riviera. Post Svo. Illustrations, 75. Gd.
Three in Norway. By Two of Them. Crown Svo. Illustrations, 65.

WORKS OF FICTION.

Anxious : an Historical Romance of the Roman Empire. Crown Svo. 65.
Beaconsfield's (The Earl of) Novels and Tales. Hughenden Edition, with 2

Portraits on Steel and 11 Vignettes on "Wood. 11 vols, crown Svo. £2. 25.
Black Poodle (The) and other Tales. By the Author of ' Vice Vere.' Cr. Svo. 65.
Harte (Bred) On the Frontier. Three Stories. 16mo. I5.

— By Shore and Sedge. Three Stories. 16mo. I5.
Se well's (Miss) Stories and Tales. Cabinet Edition. Crown Svo. cloth extra,

gilt edges, price 35. Gd. each : —

Amy Herbert. Cleve Hall.
The Earl's Daughter.
Experience of Life.
Gertrude. Ivory.

A Glimpse of the "World.
Katharine Ashton.
Langton Parsonage.
Margaret Percival. Ursula.

The Modern Novelist's Library. Crown Svo. price 25. each, boards, or 2s. Gd.
each, cloth : —
By the Earl of Beaconsfield, Keg.
Lothair. Coningsby.
Sybil. Tancred.
Venetia.

Henrietta Temple.
Contain Fleming.
Alloy, Ixion. &c.
The Young Duke, &c.
Vivian Grey.
Endymion.

By Bred Harte.

In the Carquinez "Woods.

By Mrs. Oliphant.

In Trust, the Story of a Lady
and her Lover.

By Anthony Trollope.

Barchester Towers.

The "Warden.
By Major "Whyte-Melville.

Digby Grand.

General Bounce.

Kate Coventry.

The Gladiators.

Good for Nothing.

Hornby House.

The Interpreter.

The Queen's Maries.

By Various "Writers.
The Atelier du Lys.
Atherton Priory.
The Burgomaster's Family.
Else and her Vulture.
Mademoiselle Mori.
The SLx Sisters of the Valleys.
Unawares.

By James Pain.

Thicker than "Water.
In the Olden Time. By the Author of ' Mademoiselle Mori.' Crown Svo.
Oliphant's (Mrs.) Madam. Crown Svo. 35. Gd.
Surges' My Friend and I. Crown Svo. 55.

London, LONGMANS, Green, & CO.

POETRY AND THE DRAMA.

Bailey's Festus, a Poem. Crowu 8vo. Is. 6t/.

Bowdlar's Family Shakespeare. Medium 8vo. 145. 6 vols. fcp. 8vo. 21^.
Danes Divine Comedy, translate! by Ja-jies Innes Machin. Crown Svo. 155.
Goethe's Faust, translated by Birds. Large crown Svo. 12s. 6d.

— translated by Webb. Svo. 12s. 6d,

— edited by Sells. Crown Svo. 5s.

Angelo's Poems. Vols. 1 and 2, fcp. Svo. 12.'!, Vol, 3 fcp. Svo. 5^.

Macaulay's Lays of Ancient Rome, with Ivory and the Armada, Illustrated by

Weguelin. Crown Svo. 3s. dd. gilt edges.
The same. Annotated Edition, fcp. Svo. Is. sewed, Is. ed. cloth, 25. 6d. cloth extra.
The same, Popular Edition, Illustrated by Scarf. Fcp. 4to. Gd. swd., l5. cloth.
Macdonald's (G-.) A Book of Strife : in the Form of the Diary of an Old Soul :

Poems. 12mo. 65.
Penned's (Chohnondeley) 'From Grave to Gaj%' A Volume of Selections.

Fcp. Svo. 65.
Reader's Voices from Flowered, a Birthday Book, 25, 6d. cloth, 35, Qd. roan.
Shakespeare's Hamlet, annotated by George Macdonald, LL.D. Svo, 125.
Southey's Poetical Works. Medium Svo. 145.
Stevenson's A Child's Garden of Verses. Fcp, Svo. 55.
Virgil's aeneid, translated by Dodington. Crown Svo, 95.

Poems, translated into English Prose. Crown Svo. 95.

AGRICULTURE, HORSES, DOGS, AND CATTLE.

Dunster"s How to Make the Laud Pay. Crown Svo. 55,

Fitzwygrams Horses and Stables. Svo. Io. 6(7.

Horses and Roads. By Free-Lance. Crowu Svo. 65.

Lloyd, The Science of Agriculture, Svo, 125.

London's Encyclopaedia of Agriculture. 2l5.

Miles's Horse's Foot, and How to Keep it Sound. Imperial Svo. 125. 6d,

Plain Treatise on Horse-Shoeing. Post Svo. 25. 6d.

Remarks on Horses' Teeth. Post Svo. I5. Gd.

Stables and Stable-Fittings, Imperial Svo, 155.
Neville's Farms and Farming, Crown Svo. 65,

Horses and Riding. Crown Svo, 65.
Scott's Farm Valuer, Crown Svo, 55.

Steel's Diseases of the Ox, a Manual of Bovine Pathology. Svo. 155.
Stonehenge's Dog in Health and Disease, Square crown Svo. 75. Gd.

Greyhound, fcqaare crown Svo. 155.

Taylor's Agricultural Note Book, Fcp. Svo. 25, 6d,
Ville on Artificial Manures, by Crookes, Svo, 2l5.
Youatt's Work on the Dog, Svo, 6s.

— — — Horse. Svo. 75. Gd.

SPORTS AND PASTIMES,

Campbell Walker's Correct Card, or How to Play at Whist. Fcp. Svo. 25. Gd.

Dead Shot (The) by Marksman. Crowu Svo. 10*. Gd.

Francis's Treatise on Fishing in all its Branches. Post Svo. 155.

London, LONGMANS, G-EEEN, & CO.

Jefferies' The Red Deer. Crown 8vo. 4s. Gd.

Longman's Chess Openings. Pep. 8vo. 25. Gd.

Peel s A Highland Gathering. Illustrated. Crown 8vo. Io. 6d.

Pole's Theory of the Modern Scientific Game of Whist. Fcp. 8vo. 2s. 6d.

Proctor's How to Play "Whist. Crown 8vo. 5s.

Ronald's Fly-Fisher's Entomology. 8vo. 14s.

Vemey's Chess Eccentricities. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d.

Hillocks's Sea-Fisherman. Post Svo. 6s.

Encyclopaedia, DICTIONARIES, AND BOOKS OF

REFERENCE.

Acton's Modern Cookery for Private Families. Fcp. Svo. 4s. Gd.

Ayre's Treasury of Bible Knowledge. Fcp. Svo. 6s.

Blacker's German and English Dictionary. Post Svo. 3s. 6d.

Brande's Dictionary of Science, Literature, and Art. 3 vols, medium Svo. 63s.

Cabinet Lawyer (The), a Popular Digest of the Laws of England. Fcp. Svo. 9s.

Gates's Dictionary of General Biography. Medium Svo. 28s.

Contanseau's Practical French and English Dictionary. Post Svo. 3s. 6d.

Pocket French and English Dictionary. Square ISmo. Is. 6d.
Guilt's Encyclopaedia of Architecture. Svo. 52s. Gd.

Keith Johnston's Dictionary of Geography, or General Gazetteer. Svo. 42s.
Nathan's (Dr.) Edition of Johnson's Dictionary. 4 vols. 4to. £7.

— — — — Abridged. Royal Svo. 14s.

Liddell &■ Scott's Greek-English Lexicon. 4to. 36s.

Abridged Greek-English Lexicon. Square 12mo. 7s. 6d.

Longman's Pocket German and English Dictionary. ISmo. 2s. Gd.
M'Culloch's Dictionary of Commerce and Commercial Navigation. Svo. 63s.
Maunder's Biographical Treasury. Fcp. Svo. 6s.

Historical Treasury. Fcp. Svo. 6s.

Scientific and Literary Treasury. Fcp. Svo. 6s.

Treasury of Bible Knowledge, edited by Ayre. Fcp. Svo. 6s.

Treasury of Botany, edited by Lindsey & Moore. Two Parts, 12s.

Treasury of Geography. Fcp. Svo. 6s.

Treasury of Knowledge and Library of Reference. Pep. Svo. 6s.

Treasury of Natural History. Fcp. Svo. 6s.

Quaint's Dictionary of Medicine. Medium Svo. 31s. Gd., or in 2 vols. 34s.

Reeve's Cookery and Housekeeping. Crown Svo. 7s. Gd.

Rich's Dictionary of Roman and Greek Antiquities. Crown Svo. 7s. Gd.

Roget's Thesaurus of English Words and Phrases. Crown Svo. 10s. Gd.

lire's Dictionary of Arts, Manufactures, and Mines. 4 vols, medium Svo. £7. 7s.

White & Riddle's Large Latin-English Dictionary. 4to. 21s.

White's Concise Latin-English Dictionary. Royal Svo. 12s.

Junior Student's Lat.-Eng. and Eng.-Lat. Dictionary. Sc[. 12mo, 5s.

Q *. 1 i The English-Latin Dictionary, 3s.

separately | rj.j^g Latin-English Dictionary, 3s.

Which's Popular Tables, by Marriott. Crown Svo. 10s.
Yonge's English-Greek Lexicon. Square 12mo. 8s. Gd. 4to. 21s.

London, LONGMANS, Greets, & CO.

Spotiiswoode & Co. Enters, Neic-stred Square, London.
