OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS

^

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/granvillesirisht01talb

Ism irish Ml

BY

THE Hoe THOMAS TALBOT.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

EeutJou :
SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston,

CROWN BUILDINGS, 183, FLEET STREET.

18S2.
[All rights reserved']

Printed BY GILBERT AND Livingston, LIMITED,

ST. JOHN'S Square.

CONTEXTS.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

The Tillage of Balltdi>'e 1

CHAPTER II.
Herbert GBAyyiLLE — OUB Hero . . .11

CHAPTER III.

The Captain at Home 28

CHAPTER IV.

The Daijce, and Xellt Coekoea^''s Dream . 40

y

v: CHAPTER Y.

^ The Gba^jvilles — Herbert lost in Specela-

S- TION ^7

<^

^^ CHAPTER Vi;'

The Captain's Account of his Adventures

^ IN Foreign Parts 109

CHAPTER Iii.

PAGE

A Dik^er-Party at Brookfield Hall —

Various Opinions on Current Events . 149

CHAPTER VIII.
A Grate Consultation — Female Diplomacy 205

CHAPTER IX.
A Walk in the Glens— The Pledge . . 246

CHAPTER X.

A Suspicious Visit— The Captain studies

the Clouds 286

TO LADY LOYEDALE.

Dear Lady Lovelace,

I laye the honour to dedicate this
Work to you. As the granddaughter of
Herbert Granville— the central figure in
the drama unfolded in its pages — it will, I
have no doubt, afford you a peculiar interest
; not only from the fact of its
recalling to your mind some of the traditions
connected with the history of your
family, but also from the more important
fact of its presenting to your view some of
the virtuous and noble characteristics by
which that family has ever been distinguished.


If high and honourable bearing, pure
and disinterested patriotism, and an unswerving

adhesion to those principles of
justice and of liberty, wliicli constitute
the true foundation of social stability and
national greatness, can confer an enviable
distinction upon their possessors, as they
assuredly must ; then may you justly feel
proud of the noble and illustrious source
whence your origin is derived.

You will bear with me while I say thus
much of your ancestors : and believe me
when I assure you that I have not been
led to these observations by the unworthy
desire of enhancing the value of my
Work by setting forth the hereditary
virtues of those who constitute its principal
characters. A Work of this sort
must stand upon its own inherent merits :
if its characters are true to life, and its
scenes are the faithful reflex of Nature ;
if it fulfils the conditions essential to
success, in the unity and fidelity of the
portraiture it exhibits, and in the propriety
and wisdom of the teachings it inculcates
— if it does this, it is all that a just
and reasonable criticism can demand.
There are, no doubt, degrees of merit in

the nature of the subjects of works like
this, as well as in tke treatment of such
subjects ; there are also greater or lesser
interests involved in them : but whatever
may be the subjects, and whatever their
interests, as long as they are treated with
a faithful adhesion to Nature and to the
exigencies of character, and are attended
with the inculcation of moral principle and
virtuous conduct, they must be entitled to
the favourable consideration of impartial
judges. This is all that may fairly be expected
on my part ; and hence you will
perceive that I can have no object in introducing
the history of your family here,
beyond the gratification which I am
afforded in the contemplation of high
virtue and illustrious deeds.

I am aware that the principal events
narrated throughout the following pages
are already familiar to you through the
traditions of your family : you are also
acquainted with the varied scenery connected
with those events, for you have
been born and bred in the midst of it, and
still enjoy its changeless charms. You will

therefore be able to judge whether or not
I have been true to those traditions, on
the one hand, and have transferred to
mj canvas a faithful delineation of the
main features of that scenery, on the
other.

The minor characters of the drama you
may not, perhaps, be able so easily to detect
; yet they are true to their originals ;
and their descendants, as well as those of
the principal characters, are still living and
moving amid the scenes of their ancestors.
Their real names, as well as the real names
of the places where the several incidents of
the drama took place, are of course disguised.
I say, of course, because it would
not be consistent with right feeling to unveil
to the public gaze the errors, and delinquencies,
and crimes of those who have
passed away, but whose descendants still
survive, and exhibit in their lives traits and
characteristics entirely different from those
of their progenitors, and such as entitle
them to the respect and esteem of all who
know them.

But my main purpose in gathering up

the threads of those traditions, and shaping
them into the form in which I now present
them, isj as you are aware, to impress upon
my countrymen and yours the folly and
wickedness of those political organizations
which from time to time have exhibited
themselves in the history of our country.
No matter by what various names they
may have been known, whether as 
Boys, or Recites, or Whitefeet, or
Fenians, or any other whimsical or fanciful
appellation, the attendant concomitants
and ultimate results of each and every one
of them have been the same — sin and
shame, and defeat and oppression. Commencing
in folly, and operating by crime,
they are sure ever to terminate in bloodshed,
misery, and ruin.

The events which I have recorded in
these pages in connexion smith the White-feet
Organization of half a century ago find
their exact reflex in the similar organizations
of to-day. Change but the names,
and the same story may be told of them
all. The motives, the incitements, the
catastrophes are all the same. The

peasantry, as I have shown, are incited to
acts of violence and depredation by some
idle, reckless, and designing knaves among
their own order, with the view of plunder
and revenge. These again are encouraged
and stimulated by malicious and self-interested
knaves of a higher class, whose
chief aim is the gratification of some
passion, whether of jealousy, or revenge,
or avarice, or ambition ; and who keep
themselves aloof from active participation
in the crimes of their dupes, in order to
escape detection and the punishment that
is sure to follow.

The political and social condition of
Ireland, or of any country, cannot be
improved by such reckless, powerless,
and absurd organizations as those : on
the contrary, the evils, whatever they
might be, which are intended to be
remedied by such means, become only the
greater, the more intensified. Nothing
can possibly result from them — nothing
has ever resulted from them but disorder
and ruin. The poor, misguided peasantry
are shot down, or imprisoned, or driven

from their homes ; while the country,
which they foolishly fancied they were
serving, sinks into a worse condition than
she had occupied before. This always is,
and always must be, the consequence of
such ill-advised, senseless, and wicked
enterprises.

Such are the views which I have endeavoured
to enforce, though on a limited
arena, in the course of this Work. I have
pointed out the nature, mode of operation,
and final result of those illegal and mischievous
organizations ; and also the personal
and social evils which follow in their
train. In order to relieve a narrative so
gloomy and repulsive, I have accompanied
it with episodes of love and courtship ; and
interspersed the whole with scenes in which
humour and drollery are the prevailing
elements.

I trust that the brief account which I
have thus given of the nature and contents
of the Work will add to the pleasure which
I know you will feel in its perusal.

I have only further to say that I shall
avail myself of this dedication to serve a

triple purpose, namely, that of a Dedication,
an Introduction, and a Preface.

With sentiments of high regard
I remain,
dear Lady Lovelace,
Your most obedient and most
faithful servant,

The Author.

CHAPTER I.

THE VILLAGE OF BALLYDINE.

Towards the eastern extremity of a large
and luxuriant valleys, situated in one of the
southern counties of Ireland, reposes in
graceful outline the beautiful village of
Ballvdine. It consists of two small rows
of houses bordering a public highway.
Beyond these is an irregular and broken
line of farm-houses ; flanked here and therewith
neat and cosy cottages, whose whitewashed
walls and trim little gardens, embellished
with flowers and rose bushes,
betray a degree of comfort not always to
be found in and around the dwellings of
the labouring classes of that country.

VOL. I. B

The farm-lines, unlike many others
to be found in different parts of the country,
are not huddled together in confused
masses, obstructing the free operations of
the occupiers in their daily agricultural
labours; but lying asunder, and at considerable
distances, affording freer scope
and accommodation for the various requirements
incidental to rural occupations.

Each farmstead lies enclosed within its
own little domain, unmolested by the
encroachments arising from an overdose
contiguity with its neighbours.
Propriety, accommodation, and comfort
are the predominant features that attract
the attention of the stranger as he casts
his eye over each homestead and its surroundings.


The central structure, or farm-house,
with its neatly thatched roof and elevated
gables, and its white-washed walls
breathing the refreshing fragrance of the
hop and the honey suckle, rendered still
more grateful by the suggestion of neatness
and order reigning within ; the out offices
flanking the dwelling house towards the

rear, and admirably adapted to the various
purposes for wliicli they are designed,
Trlietlier for dairy, stable, car-house, fowl-house,
cattle shed, or other object suited to
the necessities of a well-regulated farmyard
; the neat grassy plot before the front
door, edged with the lilac and the box-tree,
the rose-bush, and the hollyhock, and separated
from the sheep paddock by a low
whitewashed wall, or, in some cases, a
railed or trellised fence painted green, and
overshadowed here and there by the lime and
balsam tree ; the corn-fields and meadows
spread out in form of squares and parallelograms
on every side ; the carefully
trimmed hedges, topped with the yellow-flowering
furze, separating the several
fields ; the iron gates, flanked with round
or square piers that shone in sparkling
whiteness from the distance, opening from
the public road towards the farm-house,
or from one field to another ; all this varied
aspect of industry, economy, and taste
could not fail to create in the beholder
sensations of the most agreeable character.
The public road or thoroughfare, broad
B 2

and smooth, and hemmed in on either side
by stout hedges of earth and stone, clothed
in part with a coat of moss or long wild
grass, and decked here and there with
patches of trailing ivy, traversed the whole
extent of the village at the time of which
we write. It led off towards a neighbouring
town some three or four miles distant ;
while here and there it threw off branch
roads at different points, leading to other
villages.

Rows of old trees — ash, oak, and elm —
lined this main road not only within the
limits of the village but also for miles
beyond ; forming an agreeable shade,
which in summer relieved the hot rays of
the sun, and in winter broke the rushing
fury of the gale, or relieved the rudeness
of the pelting hail.

Towards the north and east, and in the
immediate vicinity of the village the land
sloped gradually upwards until it terminated
in a rather lofty range of hills, broken
in outline, but beautiful in aspect, on
account of the varied forms they present,
and the lines and patches of plantation

which cover their declivities, and crown
their summits.

From these hills the spectator might
obtain some of the most delightful, not to
say entrancing views that could be presented
to the eye. Let the reader stand
by our side on one of these hills in the
middle of summer, when our story commences,
and with us survey the surrounding
scene.

At a little distance beneath us lies the
village, smiling and beautiful in its repose ;
the corn fields are waving in their golden
luxuriance along the slopes ; the pastures
are thickly dotted with sheep and horned
cattle; and the meadows are enlivened
with rows of mowers plying their scythes
in harmonious sweeps. Up from this
scene of loveliness and cheerful labour
come softly and soothingly on the air the
varied sounds of gay and active life; the
laugh, the command, the ringing cheer, and
the shout of exuberant spirits, mingled with
the low of the cattle, the murmur of the
mountain streams, and the fitful gushing
music of the songsters of the grove.

But outside this circle of busy and joyous
life, and spreading out into the distance,
lies an expanse of country upon wliicli the
eye loves to repose. It presents features
of enchanting beauty ; undulating plains,
dark slumbering groves, wooded parks,
sloping lawns, ponds, streams, and waterfalls,
with here and there on every side
stately mansions, and smiling cottages,
meet and charm the sight wherever it rests.
Through the midst of this glorious landscape
winds a river, on whose bosom float
numerous small craft bearing the produce
of the surrounding country to the quays
and stores of a town lying on the extreme
verge of the valley. The river, at its
entrance to this town, is crossed by a
bridge, beneath whose capacious arches
glide the smaller craft ; while the larger
vessels, with their sails swelling to the
breeze, are admitted through the open
space temporarily formed by the elevation
of a portion of the floor or drawbridge.
Beyond this bridge, and along the
southern margin of the river lies the town
of Cushport.

Its quay, or street bordering on the
river, runs in an almost unbroken line by
the water's edge to the distance of nearly
two miles, with sailing craft of every size
and form, from the punt and pleasure yacht
to the majestic barque and the frowning
frigate, lining its entire length.

From the point of elevation where we
now stand, and from which the landscape
we have been describing lies open to the
view, that is, the portion of the landscape
which embraces the valley with its winding
river, and the mountain amphitheatre
beyond, may be seen the cloudlike vapour
that hangs over the town abovenamed,
though the town itself lies hidden in the
distance. At the other extreme point of
the valley, that is, towards the west and
the source of the river, lies the town of
Melnook, whose position in the distance
may also be observed by the wreaths of
vapour which hang above it. These two
towns then may be said to form the two
extremities of this enchanting valley of the
Orma ; lying from each other at a distance
of between thirty and forty miles, and

connected by flie chain of the winding
Orma, as the river is called. Nearly midway
between the two towns and on the
banks of the river, lies another, of less
pretensions in point of size and commercial
activity, but fully equal, if not indeed
superior to either of them in beauty of
situation and elegance of surrounding, as
well as in all the characteristics of
prosperity and comfort.

This town, called Corrigcastle from the
circumstance of its being the site of a
stronghold, or castle, built on a rock by
the margin of the river by one of the feudal
lords of the soil in time gone by, presents
a lovely view from the position we are
occupying on the rising ground above the
village of Bally dine. Unlike the other two
towns at the opposite extremities of the
Yale of Orma, which can only be seen in
their festoons of vapour, the town of 
offers its unclouded features to
the view. The river flows in graceful
undulations along its entire length, reflecting
on its silvery bosom the old ruined
castle, the waving willow grove, the

graceful cottage, and the variegated
scenery, that decks its banks as it paces
onward in its course.

Besides these three towns we have
named, as constituting the prominent
features in the landscape before us, the
Yale of Orma is studded with villages and
hamlets, of greater or lesser extent,
throughout its whole expanse. These give
a fulness of vitality to the scene, without
which inanimate Nature, no matter how
beautiful and luxuriant in her general
aspect, would lack more than half her
grace, and fail in communicating to the
observer of her charms that idea of the
wisdom and goodness and munificence of
Him who has done so much for man.

Such then is the scene in which the
humble drama which I desire to present to
the reader has taken place. It is a scene
where nothing unworthy, nothing unbecoming
the divinity which breathes upon
and around it, should ever have been
thought, or felt, or acted. It is a scene
which whispers peace and happiness, and
love ; where charity would seem to breathe

her sweetest blessings ; and Hope to sine
out with a radiance pure, bright, and holy.
But alas ! alas ! Sin and Sorrow find their
way to every scene.

Chapter II.

Herbert Glanville OUR Hero.

The Tillage of Ballydine is all astir with
the operations of the season, which is that
of harvest time. Men, women, and children
are busily and joyously engaged in their
several occupations of reaping, binding,
and gleaning; and the song and the
gossip, the laugh and the jeer, keep pace
with the progress of their labour, and give
buoyancy to their spirits.

We shall pass into one of those cornfields
on the verge of the village, and a
short distance from the main road, which
winds down from the .elevated station,
whence we were viewing the scene in the
preceding chapter ; and shall mix among
the group who are plying their labour
there ; and listen for awhile to the gossip
that is o-oino' around.

The reapers — some ten in number —
have reached the headland, and are disposing
themselves, here and there, for a
short rest before again resuming their
labour. Some, with flint and steel and
tinder-box, are striking fire to light their
pipes; some are reclining against the
hedge in careless conversation, and some
are bandying jokes with the women who
are just binding the last sheaves of the
swarthy ; but there are two who are
seated on the ground, and half resting on
their elbows, in earnest conversation on
some apparently interesting topic.

One of them is a man of a rather remarkable
appearance and address, when
taken in connexion with the occupation in
which he is now engaged. His dress,
though shabby and patched, is not that
of a field labourer, and his manner of
speech is not that of a man whose life had
been passed among the class of men with
whom he is now associated.

Instead of knee-breeches or corduroy
trousers — the usual dress of rural labourers
he wears trousers of li^'ht blue cloth,

with a broad red stripe running along the
entire leno^tli of each les on the outside.
This is patched in several places with pieces
of brown, grey, and scarlet cloth ; and the
legs are turned up two or three inches at
the ends, revealing a portion of white
cotton hose, seamed with black and purple
thread, which no doubt had been used for
the purpose of stopping up the fractures
that age and use had made in the original
web. His feet are covered with low" shoes
or pumps, scarcely reaching to the instep,
and tied with red tape in the shape of a
bow-knot; they are broken at the tops,
and his toes protrude a little from one
of them. His hair is of an iron-grey
colour, but thick and bushy, and rolled in
fantastic masses above his ears. His bead-dress,
or gear, as he was wont to call it,
presents the strangest anomaly of all ; and
stamps him as a man somewhat eccentric
in his habits, and independent of the
conventional usages of ordinary rural life.
It is of glazed leather, polished, and shining
like a mirror ; and in shape and structure
like a beehive, save that it has a broad

rim, and flat top. The whole surface of
this hat is covered with arithmetical figures
made with chalk, and disposed in lines,
squares, and parallelograms, according to
the nature and extent of the calculations
they were intended to represent. This
completes his costume, with the exception
that his shirt, which is of striped calico or
cotton, is fastened at the neck with a
broad green ribbon, the ends of which hang
down some distance on his breast. His
companion is a man of the ordinary stamp of
rural labourers, short, stout, and muscular,
and evidently of a quick and vigorous
intelligence, and is now in the act of
brandishing his arm, as he exclaims, —

No, Jack ; I tell you what — it 'ud be
better for a man to be a galley shave all
his born days than to be in the power of
those shortens av blazes that haven't a
heart for God or man. Where's the use
intalkin', man? If you wur an angel from
heaven — and you're not — you couldn't
stand their grinding and persecution ; —
and what for do they trample on the poor
people this way ? Was the country made

for them Was ice made for them Is
there a God above us ? I ask you that ? "

Here the speaker flung himself at full
length on the ground, turning his face upwards
to the skj, and folding his arms
across his chest ; then closing his eyes, he
seemed to have fallen into a sudden fit of
the most imperturbable repose.

The man thus addressed as " Jack,"
raising his hand quietly to his head, lifted
up the glazed hat, and with a slow, semicircular
motion, brought it in a right line
with his eye ; and there poising it for a
moment, he laid it on the ground by his
side. He then, with a meditative movement
of his head, looked upwards to the blue
vault of heaven, and again slowly dropped
his eyes until they settled upon the crown
of the hat, when he muttered in broken
accents, —

There's a reason for everything under
the heavens, and above the heavens — blow
me if there bent. Well," he continued,
"if Squire Croker ejected poor Evan, he
had his reason for it, I repose ; and if so, he
was right. Reason must be our landmark

in our voyage along this here coast, as
well as elsewhere ; I never known it to
fail in foul or fair-weather; blow me if I
did. And so I always said when I was
talking to my worthy and noble friend,
old Squire Granville, may Grod receive him
in glory ! a noble soul with all his slips,
and slides, and follies. But he is'gone."

"Oh," drawled his companion, as he
opened his eyes, and looked into vacancy,
*the Granvilles are a different kind of
people entirely — 'isn't one day themselves
and the Brokers ought to be compared.
The Brokers were always nothing
but shortens of the devil — that's what I
say. Jack Gorman — and you know it as
well as any man in the country."

Saying this he rose from his recumbent
position, and was proceeding to his work,
when looking around in the direction of
the narrow byway that led to the field, he
exclaimed, "There goes Master Herbert ; —
poor fellow ! — maybe he is going' to have a
little poetry with his colleen Miss Fanny
a darling' creature she is."

Saying this he walked away, followed

by the other labourers, and resumed his
work. Jack Gorman, for such was the
name of him of the glazed hat, rose at the
same time, and taking his reaping-hook he
handed it to one of the women, saying, — •

'' I must tack for an hour or two, Estella
take this and put it away safe till I heave
round ao-ain."

He then stepped on lightly to the headland,
and taking a loose, grey, broken coat
which lay at the bottom of the hedge, he
flung it oyer his shoulders, and advanced
to meet Herbert Granville, the young
person alluded to. As the two met, they
turned short into an opening that led by
a circuitous route towards the rear of the
farm-house, which stood a little above the
cornfield, where the reapers were employed.
Having arrived at a thick, low shrubbery
which shaded the house towards the north,
they sat down upon a green hillock, overshadowed
by a tall sycamore, and commenced
to converse. But before retailing
the burden of their conversation, we shall
introduce our young hero to the reader.

Herbert Granville was a young man of

VOL. I.

about eighteen years of age, tall, handsome,
and graceful. His lower limbs were
straight, and elegantly shaped, and exhibited
as he walked that species of
elasticity or springiness which gives indication
of a proud and lofty spirit. His
complexion was fair, and might, perhaps,
be deemed delicate, if it had not
been for the light which radiated his
countenance as he cast his eyes around,
and gave expression to his sentiments
or feelings as he passed along. His
cheeks, which were round and full, had
a roseate freshness, which appeared to
be heightened by recent exercises, and
glistened in the light of a pair of dark
brown eyes — eyes, too, which shone with
that openness and lustre which indicate
generosity and candour. His nose was
of the Celtic caste, straight and handsome,
with a very slight touch of an
upward inclination at its top ; his mouth
was full and expressive; and his lips,
when raised in the excitement of conversation,
revealed two rows of teeth, even
and smooth like circles of ivory. His dress

presented nothing to distinguish him, it
was that usually worn at that season of the
year by young men of his class, which was
that usually denominated *' country gentlemen,"
though in his case the ordinary
pretentious flash and cutaway style was
set aside for one more grave and graceful,
for he wore a black cloth frock-coat over a
dark striped vest, and light grey pantaloons.

He carried a book under his arm, which
from its size and binding appeared to bea
copy of an edition of one of the poets,
which bad at that time been recently
issued from the press. Such then were the
figure and appearance of our hero as he
walked side by side with our eccentric
acquaintance. Jack Gorman; and seating
himself on the green sward beneath the
shade, entered into conversation with that
worthy.

'well," observed Gorman, "have you
looked straight at what I've been saying'
to you ? or are your optics still clarified,
and lost in the mist of speculation ? It is
time for you to fix on the point of the
compass that you are to sail by, and toc
2

remain no longer shivering your sails in
the eye of the wind. Time and tide, you
must know, wait for no one ; and again,
hesitation is the thief of time, and the
mother of disappointment. There are menin
the world who never do anything, but
are ever and always waiting to do it.
Time swings merrily by ; the crops come
and go ; the seasons change ; the world
goes round, and they are never a league
forward in the voyage of life. I've met
many such in my circumnavigation of life,
and blow me, if they didn't put me in mind
of frozen crocodiles, a sweltering in the
heat of summer, and shrunk and stiff, cold
and dreary in the winter breeze. They're
good for nothing, they're things out of
nature ; and Paddy Larkin himself — ha !
ha! — couldn't tell what they were made
for. But, talking' of Paddy Larkin, steer
clear of him ; he carries too much canvas
atop, little below, and no ballast in the
hould. He said to me awhile ago, what
do you think? why, no less than that
Squire Croker, and all shortens of his sort
ought to be cleared out of the country.

and that it 'ud be only the part of a man
to send a bullet through his waistband.
I don't like this meandering' sort of talk,
blow me if I do ; and whenever I hear it
from the lips of man, woman, or child,
I set my proboscis against it, and I veer
about on the other tack. Whatever way
Croker served your father, no man has a
rio^ht to take the law into his own hands,
or to punish the stealing' of a rabbit by
burning' of a house. No, leave that to the
right judge. There's a heaven and a hell,
and there's a judge above all. Paddy
Larkin's ways never turned out well for
this world or the next ; and the farther an
honest man keeps out of his wake, the
safer he'll be in his course, and the sooner
he'll arrive at port. I don't mane to say
that you're a man as is likely to sail under
his colours ; your blood is too good for that,
and your knowledge is above it ; but if
you hail him under any stress of weather,
or let him put foot on your deck, you'll be
only given' him powder, as it were, for his
carbine, and trimming' for his lugger. He
will boast of your acquaintance, and lift

Ms jib to your wind. Cut clear of him,
in every shape, manner, and form, and let
him pick out his own nuts. He is an evil
bird, and he'll have an evil end. Well, the
world is quare, and it isn't quare ; let
every man sail under honest colours, let
him keep an eye towin'ard, and steady his
helm, and all will go safe ; all ivill go safe.
Yes, all will go safe, no matter how it ends ;
for to live, or to die, is neither good nor
evil ; but to live Jionesthj, or to die honestly,
is what I call good, both the one and the
other. Yes, Master Herbert, that's the
long and the short of everything on board
this here world of ours."

While Jack Gorman was thus airing his
philosophy for the benefit of his hearer,
young Granville was indulging his fancy
in the pages of the volume which he held
open before him. Occasionally, he would
raise his eyes from the volume, and
smile at the combined volubility and
philosophy of the speaker ; but at length,
finding that a pause had been made in the
elocution of his friend, he closed the book,
and commenced to speak.

*' I agree with you, Jack, in all you have
said ; but I must take leave to correct what
I conceive to be your erroneous impressions
with regard to the relations subsisting
between myself and Paddy Larkin. Paddy,
as you are aware, has been a long time in
the service of our family, though since my
father's death he has left us, seeing that
we had no further employment for him.
This is the sole ground of his familiarity
with me, to which you allude. He has
been always a faithful servant, while in our
family, and whatever may be his errors
then or since, of which I am certainly
ignorant, one thing I venture to say, that
there is not in all Ireland a man of kinder
and more generous feeling, or who would
be less disposed to do an ignoble act. As
to his connexion with the Whiteboys, or
Whitefeet, or whatever the call them, of
that I am wholly unacquainted. He has
never mentioned a word of it to me, and T
assure you that I feel no interest in such
subjects. Yet, I cannot shut out from my
mind the unhappy condition of our suffering
country, a condition which would seem

to have been superinduced by some curse
or fatality, or whatever it may be called,
from a remote period. It is a condition,
however, which cannot be remedied in the
way that those secret and illegal societies
would seem to point out. Many of our
evils, I fear but too many, have been
brought on by our own improvident and
reckless conduct ; and if ever our state is to
be improved, rely upon it, such improvement
must come from principles of conduct
entirely different from those which have
marked our career for years past. But
again, what hope is there, or can there be,
of a change of condition for the better,
whilst the landed interest oE this country
continues to be used in the way it has been
these centuries past by the Government
of England ? We seem to be but a mere
outpost of British interests, and to be
maintained in that most anomalous condition
through the agency of our own landed
aristocracy. But all this perversion of
things is simply the evolution of history ;
we were conquered, how or when, it matters
not to inquire, but the result of that

conquest is the state in which we now find
ourselves. Tributary events and circumstances
have heightened the results of this
conquest — such as repeated colonization,
or plantations, as they are called, the
introduction of a new system of religion,
and the abolition of our own Parliament —
these things have but served to render the
conquest not only more galling, but more
hopeless as to any reaction in the circumstances
produced by simple conquest alone.
But enough of this, I wish to speak with you
on matters more immediately affecting
me at present. Have you seen Miss
Moore ? "

"Have I seen Miss Moore? Yes, of
course I have ; and I have spoken to her,
too, about everything concerning' yourself
and herself, and found her what I always
knew she was — sound in hull, masts, and
rigging ; a craft fit for any weather."

While saying this, Jack Gorman, or
the captain, as he was sometimes euphoni-
ously styled, removed the beehive hat from
his head, and placing it between his knees,
with the concave upwards, he drew from

its lining — which seemed to be divided
into compartments or pockets for the reception
of various articles of daily use or
reference, such as ribbons, accounts,
ballads, newspapers, letters, and other
literary curiosities — he drew from amid
this varied store, a small note twisted
into the shape of a true lover's knot, and
handed it to Herbert. As he did this, he
pursed up his lips, and commenced whistling,
in a low subdued strain of melody, a
lively Irish jig, to the measure of which
he assented by the swaying of his head
upward and downward; whilst, meantime,
he busied himself in replacing in their
proper receptacles a few scraps of paper,
printed and written, which had come outwith
the note.

Herbert unfolded the billet-doux, for such,
it was, of his beloved, and looked pleased
as he read it. He then said, turning to his
companion, '' What did she say, when you
hinted the probability of my leaving the
country ? Did she look satisfied ? "

"Look satisfied! no; that was not to
be counted on ; why should she ? Did you

ever know or hear of slip, barque, schooner,
brig, or pinnace, that looked quiet and
easy-with the wind ahead ? 'Tis not in
nature to put that in the calculation. No,
bub she looked calm, trembled a little, and
balanced her head in the palm of her hand.
I need tell you no more. When I told her
how you should return to the ould place,
and wake up all its glories again, as the
poet says, and when she would be the
brightest jewel there, she smiled, and then
leaving me, she said she'd be back in a
few minutes. She returned, gave me that
document you have in your hand, and
told me to be sure to see you and deliver
it to you safe ; and so my song ends."

Herbert rising, placed the note in his
vest pocket, and after enjoining upon his
companion to meet him at a certain specified
place on the next evening but one, he
placed his book under his arm, and left
the shrubbery.

CHAPTER III. •

THE CAPTAIN AT HOME.

After Herbert Granville had passed on in
the direction of the public road which led
down to the village, and was fairly out of
sight, Gorman also left the shrubbery,
and taking a circuitous route, in order to
avoid returning to the corn-field, where we
found him employed some short time
since, lie entered by a small gate into an
orchard in the rear of the farm-house;
and passing thence through a turnstile
in the farm-yard, he approached the barn-door
as if to speak to a gentleman who
was standing near it. No sooner had the
gentleman, Who was no other than the
owner of the place, Mr. George Moore,
recognized Gorman, than he cried out, —

*' Hallo, captain, is that you ? you are
the very man I wished most to see. Can

you let me know the quantity and amount
of that flour wliicli I had sold Jones at
Com2:castle last week? There is some
dispute about it ; and I have in some way
or other mislaid the papers ; so that I was
anxious to see you. But upon inquiring
after you from the reapers in the field,
they told me you had left some time ago.
Can you help me in this business ? "

The captain replied only by slowly removing
from his head the glazed hat ; and
after turning it round and round as though
in search of the particular square or
parallelogram of chalked figures with
which it was adorned, he at length fixed
his eye steadily upon one of those figured
decorations, and read from it the information
sought for by his questioner.

That's it, exactly," he exclaimed, "to
the hundreth part of a decimal; but to
satisfy your honour that all is square and
tight, I will corroborate the report of the
day-book by the contents of the ledger;"
and drawings from the interior of the hat
a brown coloured strip of paper, he presented
it to him.

It accorded, in its contents, with the
figures on the hat ; and Mr. Moore expressed
himself satisfied with the correctness
of the record.

Now, captain," he added, '' if you
would be good enough to just go down to
the men in the field below, and tell Paddy
Larkin that I wish to speak with him fora
minute, you would oblige me : and if
you have nothing else to do tomorrow
morning step down this way, and help me
to make up those mill accounts that I was
speaking to you about."

"All right, squire," replied Gorman,
** I'll deliver the message to that distinguished
patriot — ha ! ha ! — and I'll bear
down to this here port at the first favourable
breeze in the morning. Good-bye,
squire," he added, as he wheeled round on
his heels, and touched his hat. Then
springing over the low stile which separated
the farm-yard from the adjoining
paddock, he tripped down in the direction
of the corn-field.

The reader cannot fail to notice, from
what he has seen of the manner and

address of Jack Gorman, or the captain,
that there was something in his habits and
character which indicated a training or
mode of life different from that of the
class of field labourers with whom he was
now associated. The peculiarity of his
address, and the superior information and
sagacity which he evinced, and which
rendered him an object of evident consideration,
not only to Mr. Moore, but also to
Herbert Granville, gave evidence that he
was a man of some degree of education,
as well as of experience in the ways of the
world; and that he also possessed an
amount of discretion and of prudence, which
entitled him to the confidence of those
gentlemen. The eccentricity manifested
in his attire, too, was calculated to attract
attention, and to point him out as one
who had a story to relate, or a record to
refer to outside the everyday life of his
rustic acquaintances. He was, in truth, a
man of no small sagacity; and to the advantages
which he owed to Nature, he added
those of an early education, conducted with
no little care in view of his moral improvement

and religious principles, as well as of
Ms worldly advancement. His father lead
been a mechanic in comfortable circumstances,
and bad spared no expense in
providing this, bis only son, with the best
education wbicb the country schools in his
neighbourhood could afford. Besides thisbe
bad paid particular attention to his
religious training, and to bis practice and
observance of those duties which the church
of his fathers enjoined. So far, therefore,
bis education was in every way calculated
to foster and develop his natural powers,
and to render him at once useful to himself
and to society. But the best intentions
of men are oftentimes impeded and counteracted
by circumstances and accidents
which no foresight, no matter how wise or
careful, can always obviate. The father
having died, and the family being afterwards
reduced to a state of great poverty
and distress, young Roman, who was then
about sixteen or seventeen years of age,
took a situation as junior clerk in a drapery
establishment in the neighbouring town of
Corrisrcastle. He could do no better at the

time ; and to this lie was impelled by this
affection for this mother and two sisters, to
whose support he was desirous to contribute
in the only way Which was then open to
him. In this employment two years had
passed over, when the family whom he
so ardently loved, and strenuously laboured
for, were suddenly laid on a bed of sickness,
having been seized with a contagious
fever which had been for some time raging
in their vicinity. In a few weeks the
mother and two daughters slept together
side by side in one grave.

Poor John Gorman reeled beneath the
blow : his spirit sank, and his usual energy
and activity seemed to have forsaken him.
He moped about for some time silent and
disconsolate; he abandoned his employment,
and retired into the country, where
he lived with an uncle, his mother's
brother, until his grief began to subside,
and the necessity of exertion was forced
upon him.

One fine spring morning, within six
months after the death of those whom he
held so dear, he left his uncle's house,

VOL. I. D

and was no more seen in the places that
knew him, until his name and his sorrows
seemed to have been forgotten alike, and
the waves of time to have closed over his
memory.

More than a quarter of a century had
passed away, and Jack Gorman appeared
once more in his native village. He had
returned from his wanderings beyond the
wide Atlantic, and sought his early home
again, there to pass away whatever
additional years Providence might be
pleased to grant him. Whether the years
of his exile had improved the quality of
his head and heart, we do not undertake to
say ; but that his knowledge of men and
things, and his estimate of the world's
mingled cup of happiness and misery were
enlarged and improved, can admit of little
doubt, as we shall have occasion to observe
in the course of this history.

Having said thus much touching the life
and character of the captain, we shall now
follow him as he walks along by the hillside
in the direction of his dwelling. He
delivered the message which Mr. Moore

had given liii for Paddy Larkin ; after
wliicli he sauntered along through the
village of Ballydine, making short turns
here and there, and entering the dwellings
of the farmers and cottage, until the sun
began to decline towards the verge of
the horizon, when he bent his footsteps
towards his own domicile, near the summit
of the hill above the village. The going
down of the sun was glorious on this August
evening, the sky was calm, lovely, and
clear, and the trees along the glens and by
the waysides slept dreamily in the soft light.
Having made a detour by the lower part
of the village, called the Gross, and leaving
Mulligan's tavern on his left hand, he
struck into the mountain road, which we
have already mentioned as leading to the
rising ground above the Yale of Orma.
After proceeding about a mile from the
Cross, and keeping the high road for about
half that distance, and a narrow lane, or
horn, as it was called, which wound by
the side of a deep precipitous glen at the
base of the hill, for the remaining part, he
struck off to the left, upon a path which
D 2

twisted diagonally along the rising ground
until he came to a stream wliicli tumbled
amid rocks and stunted firs down to the
ravine below. Crossing over this, on a
sort of bridge composed of rough unhewn
trees, lopped of their branches and cut
into suitable lengths, he breasted the hill,
over broken fields and ragged hedges overgrown
and tangled with furze, fern, and
briar, until he reached a point towards its
summit, where a large boulder rock, fringed
with heath and broom, and surmounting
a small rush-grown hillock, arrested
his progress. He ascended this rock,
which was flat and somewhat depressed on
the top ; and seating himself on its outer
edge, a smooth and level surface like the
rim of a basin, he gazed down upon the
valley that lay extended beneath him.
The sight was, in truth, entrancing. The
whole scene, which we attempted to
sketch in our opening chapter, spread
itself before him, bathed in the rich glories
of a retiring sun ; the sky waved its
streamers of brilliant and ever shifting
hues above and around it ; the river Orma

glistened and glowed in its serpentine
course amid the wealth and luxury that
lined its path ; and mansion and cottage,
park and grove, farmstead and hamlet, lay
slumbering in the midst of the encircling
splendours. Gorman's eyes seemed to
devour the landscape ; he folded his arms
upon his bosom; his legs lay extended
and crossed ; his breast rose and fell with
emotion ; and his whole soul seemed
rivetted upon the scene. What thoughts
and memories then held revel in his heart
and brain we shall not attempt to tell ; but
that the visions of his early life rose fresh
and vivid to his mind, and touched his
heart's most tender chords, we can readily
conceive ; for as he quietly rose from his
seat, and drew his hand across his eyes, he
uttered intrembhng and broken accents, —
My own dear, dear mother ! I see you
near that tree again, as when your lips
pressed my cheek, and you looked — oh,
sweet mother ! — you looked for the last
time on your unhappy son. Oh ! I was
happy then ; how happy, ho happy ! " He
paused and again cast his eyes over the

scene, while his lips trembled and moved
as though in prayer ; but the next broken
words he uttered were, '* Sweet sisters !
may heaven's light ever shine upon you.
I remember the last time we parted.
Death had laid his cold hand upon you : —
sickness and sorrow were seated by our
hearth stone. My light of life went out,
the darkness of despair fell like a heavy
cloud upon my heart, and my soul longed
to be with you in another and a better
world. God ! my God ! "

He turned from the scene, and slowly
descending from the rocks, he made his
way along the ridge of the hill amid a
tangled growth of underwood and shrub,
until he reached a large grass-grown
hedge, shaded with willows and sycamores,
and forming a frontage to a small garden.
At the farthest point of this garden stood
a small cottage, perched in a nook beneath
a beetling rock, which rose like a castle
wall above its humble roof. A small
wicket opened into the garden, and from
this wicket a narrow pathway, strewn with
white sand, and bordered with box-trees and

rose bullies, led to the door of the cottage.
Gorman passed through the Ticket and
entered the cottage door which lay open
before him. A small chair made of straw,
with arms and back of the same material,
and displaying in its construction no small
amount of artistic skill, stood within the
door; upon this Gorman sat as soon as he
had entered, and extending his legs and
arms, with a long-drawn sigh, he muttered
to himself, " This is my home — the poor
old spot!"

CHAPTER lY.

The DANCE — AND NELLY COKKORAn's Dream,

Gorman's cottage — within whose portal be
now reposed, after his day's varied labour,
and his tramp along the hill — was a rather
remarkable object amid the rude wilderness
of the surrounding scenery. It was,
indeed, an oasis in the desert. It was
known, among the neighbouring peasantry,
by the name of the Glazement, from the
circumstance, we believe, of its being furnished
and adorned with windows of
framed glass, shaped and fitted with a
degree of propriety and fitness unknown
among the rude and scattered dwellings
which lay cowering in its vicinity.

Unlike those receptacles of squalidness
and poverty, it presented a clean and cosy
appearance, both inside and outside ; and
bespoke a degree of taste and refinement

in its proprietor unknown to this less
enlightened and less provident neighbours.
It had space, and comfort, and cleanliness
in the interior, while its external aspect
was marked with no ordinary degree of
sightliness and elegance.

It was a thatched house, of rather
ample proportions for its class, for it contained
a kitchen or general room, spacious
and lofty, two small bedrooms of convenient
proportions whose doors opened
at the end of this, and another small room,
which was dignified with the name of
store, at right angles with the kitchen and
extending towards its rear, and partly cut
into a crevice of the rock which beetled
above it. A spacious hearth occupied one
extremity of the kitchen; and a decent
chimney of stone and mortar shining in
whitewash, rose above the roof.

The windows, which were five in
number, were, as we have said, framed and
glazed, and decorated on the outside — at
least four of them — with flowering woodbine,
which gave a freshness and beauty to
the little dwelling that was peculiarly

agreeable amid a scene so rude and repulsive.


The four windows thus adorned were
the two that looked out from the kitchen
and the two which admitted light to the
bed-rooms, one of which was in a line with
the kitchen windows, while the other looked
out at the end. The fifth window was
placed in the roof of the room called the
store. The three front windows contained
each six small panes, and each of the others
four panes of the same size.

A small garden lay in front and extended
beyond the two ends of the cottage ; which
garden was protected and ornamented at
the same time by a hedge which ran around
it till it met the rock in the rear. It was
divided into plots and squares, devoted
principally to cabbages and potatoes ; but
here and there were small beds of onions,
parsnips, leeks and lettuce, garnished with
rose bushes, tulips, lilies, and other floral
beauties. The whole was shaded with a
row of hawthorn trees, interspersed with
tall sycamores and mountain ash which
flung their fragrance and their shadows at

the same time around the precincts of the
cottage.

The little paths or walks which intersected
the garden were trimmed with
bachelor's buttons, pansies, and other
small flowers, of different colour and
variety, and covered with white gravel or
sand ; while a small circular patch of clover
at the southern extremity of the cottage
and garden, lay embosomed amid fragments
of raofo^ed rocks, hurled in fantastic visor)

'

order and confusion one upon another;
and added to the delicious odours of the
spot.

The small wicket which opened into the
garden was painted green, as was also the
cottage door ; while the window sashes
and sills shone in white : the roof was
ornamented upon the top, and along the
eave in front, with a sort of laced work of
straw, which contributed in no little
measure to its graceful aspect.

Standing at the door of this cottage,
and casting the eye around, an observer
could not fail to be impressed with a sense
of the silence and desolation which reigned

on every side. It was not that there was
an entire absence of cultivation and of
dwellers, for there were many farm-houses
and labourers' cabins scattered around
everywhere ; but from the manifest absence
of supervision and of interest on the dart
of the owners of the lands, the impression
became irresistible, that they had either
abandoned their properties altogether as
worthless, or were unable from some cause
to exercise over it their right of ownership.

In a civilized country, and an age of
progress, it was lamentable to observe the
evidences of squalid poverty and neglect
which appeared on every side; and this
too in a region which nature had treated in
no niggardly spirit.

The landscape was made up of hill, dale,
glen, and plain, with a background of
mountains retreating far away into the
clouds. It was such a scene as the
imagination could supply with a busy, and
prosperous, and enlightened population, in
the midst of flocks, and herds, and golden
fields, a population abounding in the comforts,
and the blessings of a progressive age;

yet there it lay in almost total silence, and
in all but the absolute desolation in which
the waves of the Great Deluge had left it.

Of course, it is not to be inferred that
the extensive and varied country lying
before us is altogether in its primitive
state ; by no means : but what we desire
to show is this, that it was in such a state
of deplorable neglect, as to be incapable of
supporting a hundredth part of the population
which might, under proper care and
an enlightened system of culture, draw not
only sustenance, but comfort and independence
from its bosom.

The country though rugged and marshy
in some portions of it, was on the whole
capable of being brought to a high state of
cultivation ; and from its general outline,
was calculated to present a landscape of no
ordinary variety, richness, and beauty.

However, it is not our business to
enter into discussions of political or rural
economy; we must turn our attention to
the Glazement, and introduce our readers
within its cosy and decent walls. The
kitchen, at the door of which the captain

was seated in his straw arm-clair, was, as
we have said, a room of respectable size.
Its furniture, though scanty, was decent
and convenient. A dresser, a small deal
table supported on a square frame with
four legs, two or three strong chairs with
rush or straw bottoms, a boss, or straw-seat,
round and comfortable, a long bench
of rude construction, and a short stool or
two, constituted, with the chair on which
the captain was seated, the whole inventory
of the kitchen furniture.

The floor of this apartment was of earth,
but so even, compact, and clean, that one
might eat off it. The two little bedrooms
were equally simple in their garniture, and
cleanly in their appearance. Each contained
a good-sized bedstead, with four
posts, a rack for clothes, and a box — the
box in that which appeared to be the
captain's room, was not so much a box asa
sea-chest, for it was long, strong, and
massive, and had on its cover the letters
J. G., cut with a penknife, or other sharp
instrument, to indicate the name of its
proprietor.

In this room were also some instruments
and implements which indicated some of
the employments or occupations of its
owner, such as a violin, a flute, a fishing
rod, a reaping hook or two, one or two
small nets, and a shelf with a dozen or so
of books upon it. Each room contained,
besides the respective articles we have
named, a small crucifix suspended above
the head of the bed, and a picture of the
crucifixion below at the foot, together with
two or three small pictures of saints fastened
upon the walls.

The room whose window looked out at
the end of the cottage, was evidently that
of a female, for the small rack against the
partition contained several articles of
female attire. In fact, the lady who occupied
it was l^elly Corkoran, she to whom,
the reader will remember, the captain
handed the reaping-hook in the corn-field
when he went to join Herbert Granville.

To remove all mystery on this subject
then, we may at once inform the reader
that Nelly was the captain's cousin, the
only daughter of that uncle with whom he

had lived previously to this departure for
America. She had married a man of the
name of Corkoran ; who, dying within a
short space after their marriage, left her a
widow with one child — a daiio^hter. This
daughter who, married a cotta in the glen
beyond, and who was very comfortable and
happy in her way, had several children,
one of whom, a little girl, lived with her
grandmother at the Amazement. The
family of the Glazement, therefore, consisted
of the captain (Jack Gorman had
never married), his cousin 'News Corkoran,
and Nelly's grand-daughter, Ninny Rice, a
child about seven years old.

But while we are thus occupied in
tracing the genealogy of the occupants of
the Glazement, our friend the captain has
disappeared from his seat at the cottage
door; and Nelly and little Ninny, in company
with a stranger, a man of comic
aspect and bearing, have passed through
it, and are busying themselves — at least
Nelly is — in putting the house to rights,
lighting a fire in the hearth, and preparing
supper. The stranger — who is not a

stranger after all, for lie belongs to one
of the neighbouring villages, and a great
favourite to boot amono^ the surrounding
peasantry — is planted on one of the rush-bottomed
chairs, with an oblong green
bag, plump and stiff, laid on the table at
his elbow ; he is holding converse, or
rather cracking jokes with the captain.

The captain, too, appears metamorphosed,
for instead of the garb in which we first
introduced him to the reader in the early
part of the day, he is now arrayed in white
linen pantaloons, falling gracefully over a
pair of neat, tight pumps, and a light-blue
swallow-tailed coat, with vest and necktie
of unexceptionable style and material. In
short, he exhibits, in dress and movement,
the cut and fashion of a dancing master.

*well, I tell you what, my diamond,"
the visitor with the green bag was going
on to say, addressing the captain, " I never
seen you look smarter nor suppler than
this blessed minute. God bless my sowed !
to think of it is enough to make a man like
myself as sprightly as a lark, and as frisky
as a colt in a clover field. Well, glory be

VOL. I. E

to God, I can't complain myself ; I am
strong and hearty, full-winded, firm-limbed,
light and airy — Irishman-like, my
trump " (springing up and slapping his
open palm on the shoulder of the captain),
"prepared for war, women, and wine.
That's the chat, my jewel. Well now,
captain, I'll give you a blast on the
clhoJiauns.^^

Here lifting the green bag from the
table, he untied the string at its mouth,
and drew from it a set of bag-pipes, or
dhoJmuns, as he termed them, and seating
himself again, commenced screwing them
together.

Just as he had commenced this operation
Nelly had supper prepared, and was
covering the table with a clean coarse
cloth, when three or four persons, young
men and women, entered the cottage, with
the usual salutation of " God save all
here."

After a brief interchange of compliments
and jokes, the new comers seated themselves
on the long bench; and the man
with the green bag broke into a merry

strain, plying this chanter with great vigour
and dexterity.

More power to your elbow, Denny,
my rattler ! you're the boy can do it on
the chanter," exclaimed one of the newcomers,
a young fellow with a round red
face and laughing eye, who was half reclining
on the bench beside a merry looking
girl with a white straw hat and blue ribbons,
who was looking archly into the face of her
companion.

*' Now, Denny," he continued, rising, '' if
you don't play the ' Humours of Glen '
for Bill Clearyy here, without missing a
note, I'll make twenty smithereens of your
pipes, and drive your canteen flying into
the chimney. Come, my rasper, up wit
id."

'' Git away wit you, Ned Doolin," replied
Nelly Corkoran, who had just completed
the supper arrangements, and placed
a couple of chairs and a stool around the
table. " Come, Dinny, and take some thin'
to ate before you plays any more."

The table looked inviting with its
burthen of hot smoking potatoes and
E 2

noggins of fresh skimmed milk, with a
dozen of boiled shining hens' eggs placed ina
wooden bowl at the top ; and Denny,
eyeing the feast (indeed, one eye was all
the corporeal light he could command),
immediately rose, unbound his instrument,
which he laid aside, and placed himself at
the table.

As he was going through this operation
he kept bantering Ned Doolin : —

'' And how is the Colleen Duv, Ned avick ?
Take care of yourself in that plantation,
for I tell you a secret — and you may believe
one Denis Mullins of the Glen, head
piper of the Barony of Monroe, when he
speaks — I tell you this, avick, there's a fox
near your hen roost."

The girls laughed merrily ; Ned bit his
lip; the piper chuckled and commenced
operations on the mealy potatoes; and
Nelly pressed the boys and girls to join in
the supper. They all refused, saying they
had supped already ; and remained on the
bench exchanging jibes and jokes with
Denny and with one another until the
supper was ended.

*' Xow," said Denny, as he rose from the
table, and drew himself up in the centre of
the floor, *' I'm ready for action; — I'm like
Lord Fairborough's tenants, ' neither dry
nor hungry, but continued and happy, and
bursting' Ovid fun.' Come now, my fair
corners — ye charming' heart-breakers — I'm
your man for the melody that'll warm your
tinder souls, and sind the blood a-frisking
through your veins like summer light -
enim' ; — hee ! hee ! hee ! "

He went into a fit of laughter, resembling
the prolonged and jerking voice
of a goat; and again resumed his pipes.

'' Well, captain," he said, addressing
Gorman, 'what's your fancy? — the 
the Bar cVs Legacy? Galilee Tlireealf
the ' Boijne Waters — hee-hee, hee ! or the
Goblin ? Anything you like, John Gorman !
for you and I can't forget our g or soon
(boyish) years, when we played together,
and tripped id on the light fantastic
toe."

'pinnace, ahoy there," exclaimed the
captain, looking towards the girl with the
laughing eyes, whose name was Peggy

Cummins ; and then stepping forth on the
floor, — '' Come, my Colleen Has (fair girl)
let us laid the van. Give us Haste to the
Wedding, Denny," he said, turning to the
piper, " and — whisper — may we soon be
hastening' to your own. Come, sweep it
along, my blasted."

Denny commenced, but Peggy did not
seem content ; and Ned Doolin taking the
floor and leading the other girl out,
suggested the Fox-hitter' s jig as a tune
that would please all, 'ras there was
love and jollity in id," and it was a
favourite with Judy Casey, his partner.
Denny then jerked off the Fox-hunter'* s jig ,
and the captain and Ned Doolin with
their respective partners did ample justice
to its measure. The piper interspersed his
melody with an occasional whoo-o-o, while
the dancers pounded the floor, flung their
limbs into all sorts of attitude, cracked
their fingers, whirled, curvetted, or jumped
until thought, feeling, sensation, every
faculty of the soul was involved in the
vortex of the excitement, or carried along
in the whirlwind of the music.

That's you, Peggy Bairn, whip it on
the start ; now for it, Judy, achra ! grind
it in the middle, and reel it off wit a slap
li'hoo ! that's you, my top ! Heel it,
captain ; take the weather gauge — hee, hee,
hee ! — Ha, ha, Ned Doolin, missed the
clinch ; no dreaming' of the Colleen Dlmv ;
mind your steps — that's you, my lark.
Bravo, captain ! heel up on the quarter, and
let go your bowling', hee, hee, hee ! flank the
inimy, and haul up sour braces — hee, hee,
hee ! "

Thus went on the piper, throughout the
whole performance ; until at length the
dancers appeared over-breathed, and
gradually subsided into a comparatively
easy and rational movement, when they
terminated the performance by a semicircular
movement on the part of each
couple, with a bow and a scrape from the
captain and Xed Doolin, delivered to their
partners respectively.

All right, Denny, ma hhochaV^ (my boy),
exclaimed Xed, as he wiped the perspiration
from his forehead, and resumed his
seat by Peggy's side on the long bench —

** may you never loose the tin knuckles, my
ould blowliarcl, or be disappointed by the
girl you loves."

'' Thank you, Ned ; I return you the
compliment in regard of the girl ; and
believe me, it won't be my fault if ye don't
be spliced before Advent ; a Avoid in the
Court, you know, is worth a crown in the
purse."

'come, girls," said Nelly, approaching
the young women, and taking one of them
by the arm, " come wit me, I want to show
ye my new cloak; come, and lave those
lads and Dinny settle the match atween
um."

The two young women sprang up from
the bench, and followed Nelly into her bedroom,
where a black teapot, some cups and
saucers, and a plate piled with large slices
of bread and butter met their delighted
gaze.

Sit down now, on the box here, girls, and
we'll have a snoring' cup together. When I
finished the binding' at Mr. Moore's in the
evening' I went down to the Cross, an' I
bought the making of this at Peter

Mackey's; and a nate drop it is ye'll
find."

The girls laughed, pulled Nelly by the
cap and gown, and sat down to enjoy her
nate cup of tay, as she called it.

Now, at the time of which we write,
which is some forty years ago, the use of
tea in the houses of country farmers and
cottagers was a thing so novel in itself, and
withal deemed such a mark of extravagance
and folly, that those who indulged in it
were considered as being little short of
lunatics. They had, to use the common
phrase, " neither sense, nor slime nor conduct,
who event on wit sichdoins\'^' yet the
practice was secretly indulged in by some of
the farmers and comfortable cottage' wives
and daughters, especially those who 'got a
taste of the town," and had friends and
cronies among the shopkeepers and tradesmen
of the neighbouring towns. Butwhile
the ladies are secretly enjoying their odoriferous
beverage, we shall return to our
friends in the kitchen.

AAYell now, Denny," observed the captain,
"tis a good spell ago since you and I

first joined in a melody together ; but "
(drawing a deep sigh) " where's the use of
looking back to those ould times ? There
was pleasure and merriment, to be sure ;
and good and loving hearts to share it ; but
there were dark hours, too, and sorrow,
and grief, and misfortune had a finger in
the pie. Nevermind; I like to hear the
old songs and old tunes ; they always veers
my heart round to the right point of the
compass, and swells my sails in the voyage
of life. Let us have one of the old tunes,
Denny ; come, fly your jib, and give her
topsails to the breeze."

As the captain was proceeding in this
strain of mingled soberness and levity, the
cottage door opened, and three persons —
two young women and a young man —
entered. The captain immediately rose
from his seat, and with playful politeness
expressed the '* honour and delight he felt
on receiving within his modest castle his
most illustrious and most welcome guests."

I'm delighted to see you, Miss Fanny;
and you, Miss Granville, my sweet lady ; —
how is every inch of you both ? Sit down

here :" and lie placed seats for the two in
front of the piper. 'master Harry, my
noble gentleman," he continued, 'you're
welcome — here you are — sit here;" and
he led him to a chair beside himself.

The new arrivals were, certainly, to use
the captain's phrase, illustrious looking
persons, when taken in connexion with
the place and its surroundings. It is true
that they were not in dress or manner
either very imposing or very formidable,
yet, in both these particulars, they exhibited
a very marked and very striking
distinction from those in whose society
they were now mingling. The young lady,
named Fanny, was the daughter of Mr.
Moore, in whose corn-field the captain was
first introduced to the reader — and she
whose name was mentioned in the interview
between the captain and Herbert Granville
in the shrubbery. She was a beautiful girl,
and one whose appearance at first sight
was calculated to leave a pleasing impression
upon the mind. She was not tall ; indeed
she scarcely reached the middle height;
but there was that in the shape of her face,

the expression of Iter eye, and the formation
and outlines of her figure — in her
hands, arms, bosom, waist, and lower
limbs — as far as these last were indicated
by her step and movement — there was that
in all these which at once awakened in the
heart and mind a sense of beauty and loveliness
such as are rarely to be met with, and
when met with, not easily to be forgotten.
She was plainly dressed — a gown of cheap
material, but of a neat striped pattern, surmounted
by a light brown woollen cloak, of
fine texture, that hung lightly on her body,
and was fastened over her bosom with a
small silver clasp, constituted the entire of
her external decoration ; if we except a
light pink kerchief that encircled her neck
above the dress, and a small Leghorn hat,
which rested jauntily on her head ; these,
with a pair of slight, polished, leather
shoes, and white cotton stockings completed
her costume. Her face, which was
rather round than oval, was fair and beautiful,
and lighted with a pair of eyes of a
clear bright blue, whose light was tender,
soft, and wavy. Her head and neck were

covered and shaded with light brown, or
auburn hair disposed in rich-flowing ringlets
which rested upon the shoulders. Her
hands were small, but plump and well
shaped ; and her feet were in keeping with
the general symmetry of her person — small,
curved, and elastic.

The other lady, who was attired in nearly
the same style of costume, except that the
colour of her dress was rather sombre, was
certainly beautiful, though her beauty was
different in character from that of her
companion. Her person was taller and
thinner, and her face, which was rather
pale, was more inclined to the oval than to
the round shape. Yet her face, neck, and
shoulders presented an outline of exquisite
curvature and grace; and her nose, which
was slio;htiv Eoman, but neither laisse
nor pointed, was in perfect keeping with
the whole contour of the head and body.
Her eyes were dark brown, and emitted a
clear but gentle light, which at once impressed
the beholder. She wore her hair,
which was of a dark hazel colour, in folds
above her ears, and fastened on her head

by a small comb of tortoiseshell. Her
figure was ligHt and graceful ; and lier
whole person, bearing, and expression indicated
refinement, gentleness, and good
nature. The two ladies seemed of an equal
age, which could not have exceeded seventeen
or eighteen years.

Their companion, " Master Harry,"
was a smart, active, handsome young man,
of the middle size; with clear, flashing
brown eyes, a bounding gait, and a cheerful
aspect. He was dressed in a bottle-green
frock coat, light vest, and light
brown nankeen trousers. His neck was
adorned with a striped silk tie, closed in
front with an easy knot, which permitted
the unrestrained play of a full round and
white neck, rising between a pair of
shoulders broad and manly. His hat was
of brown felt, which covered a luxuriant
growth of dark brown hair that waved
and curled around his neck and ears like
a cauliflower ; his age might be nineteen
or so. He was the brother of Miss Fanny
Moore ; and it was slyly whispered that he
had "notions about Miss Juha," the other

young lady, who was the sister of Herbert
Granville. But while v^^e have been introducing
the new visitors to the reader,
Nelly Corkoran has not been idle in
performing towards them the duties of
hostess. She has them, we mean the
young ladies just mentioned, already
ensconced in the sanctum of her bedroom,
with the two other young women ; and
while placing their hats and cloaks upon the
bed, she is earnestly assuring them that a
better or neat her bit of ta3^ couldn't be got
than that ; for I bought id myself at Peter
Mackey's, at the Cross ; and you may be
sure, miss," (looking sly at Fanny) " 'isn't
the worst he'd give me. Come, ladies !
now take the bread : maybe we'd rather
the cakes — here taste these now. Take
another cup, Peggy : oh, is that the way
wit you, Judy Casey? the sorrow osgood
in yes at all." Thus was Xelly entertaining
her female friends ; while " Master
Harry ' ' and the other young men were
cracking jokes, and bandying mock compliments
with the captain and the piper.
Come, Denny," said the captain,

make fast your tongue there ; let go the
main brace, and square the yards ; and let
the breeze fill the canvas. Now, Denny,
for the sake of old times, give us the
Twisting of the rope.' "

Bravo, captain," exclaimed Harry ;
Denny is the boy that will do it justice ;
and there can be no doubt that justice will
not forget returning himself the compliment
some time or other before his music
is all forgotten, and will twist the rope for
him in the presence of a large party of
admiring friends."

Ah, Master Harry " replied the piper,
'' I don't know a gallow's rope between
Donaghada and Pantry Head that would
refuse your four bones ; if 'twas only for
the sake of example to the risen' generation.
Be my word, you'd make a handsome
picture shaken' in the wind of a May
morning'. Howsoever, here goes ;" and he
commenced tuning his pipes. He played
the *' Twisting of the Hope ; " and followed
it up, with a merry, rattling jig, to which
he kept time with the movements of his
head, and the rolling of his one eye,

occasionally lifting the chanter, and pointing
it towards Harry; until he closed
the rhapsody with a sudden jerk, and a
wlioo-o-o that rang along the roof.

*' There, Harry, my nut-cracker," he
exclaimed, " what do you say to that ? "

Good, very good, indeed," replied
Harry. *' I'll become a witness to character
for you, before the judge puts on the blackcap,
and while the rope is being greased."

*' Ha, ha, you gaol-bird," was the
rejoinder.

To give Denny his merit, he was certainly
an admirable performer on his
favourite instrument. He played with
great skill, taste, and spirit, especially in
that department of his art which embraced
the dancing tunes then in vogue among
the Irish peasantry, as well as the old
plantes, and airs of a bygone era. In
this twofold department he had none to
surpass him in the whole country side ; and
he was, therefore, very generally employed
in discoursing sweet music, not only by the
peasantry at their weddings, and parties,
and dances on the green, but also by the

VOL. I. 1'

gentry throughout a large area of the
country around.

In the meantime, the ladies having partaken
of Nelly's tail, and put themselves
in order for the dance, issued forth into the
kitchen ; and the evening's programme was
proceeded with.

It must be observed here, that the captain
was an accomplished dancer, and was
acquainted with some of those fashionable
dances which had then been recently introduced
among the more respectable classes
in the rural districts. He, therefore, gave
lessons, sometimes at his own cottage, and
sometimes at the houses of the country
squires, to such as required his services in
that way.

This was, then, one of his terpsichorean
assemblies ; and he proceeded with the
business of the evening. Miss Fanny took
her lesson first, in a waltz ; then Miss Julia,
in the same dance ; and afterwards the
four ladies went through the process of
instruction in a quadrille. After this the
ladies joined the gentlemen in a cotillion ;
at which all manifested equal expertness.

facing, crossing, and turning, with a rollicking
alacrity and spirit that was truly
exhilarating.

At the conclusion, the ladies retired with
Xelly to the bedroom, to resume their hats
and cloaks, as they thought it now time to
prepare for home. The gentlemen, however,
expressed an unanimous desire that
the captain should favour them with a
hornpipe, to which he manifested no
reluctance, and Denny at once struck
lip " Murphy's Hornpipe." The captain
bowed to the gentlemen ; moved slowly
forward and backward on the floor, with
a lofty air of self-consciousness as to the
superiority with which he was about to
perform the dance ; and at length flung
himself into an attitude of earnest action.
He hopped around, now on one leg, and
now another in balanced unison with the
strain ; and returned in the same circle
with increasing ardour : he then dashed in
towards the centre, and facing the piper,
pounded the floor, like a drum, for a few
seconds, at the end of which he sprang into
the air, and came down spinning on his
p 2

heels. He sprang up again, and again
pounded the floor as before ; then flung
himself to one side, back again ; down on
one knee, up again ; struck the sole of one
foot with his palm ; then the other ; and
thus he continued in varied movement,
now on a right line, now on a curve, swaying,
kneeling, whirling, pounding for the
space of ten or fifteen minutes ; while the
ladies, who had come out to witness the
performance, looked on with delight ; the
gentlemen approved and clapped ; and the
piper whoo-ood in unbounded transport.

At length the exhibition was concluded ;
'good night;" ''a lamb's rest;" and
pleasant dreams to you all," were exchanged
between the several parties ; and
the visitors retired : ail but the piper, who
remained for the night, as was sometimes
his wont on such occasions.

The captain and himself were old and
early friends ; and so they occ rationally
spent a night together, that is, when Denny
was not otherwise engaged ; and when his
mother, with whom he resided below in
the glen, for Denny was a ^' single boy,"

as himself would say, was '' easy in her
mind about him."

The company having gone, and everything
being set in order, Nelly, according
to instruction from the captain, laid a
bottle of whisky on the table, and placing
two tumblers and a bowl of sugar beside
it, took a small skillet from the hob, and
pouring its contents of hot water into an
earthen jug, placed the latter vessel also
upon the table.

'' Come, Denny, let us have a sober
glass together. The world goes round ;
but you and I will stick together in friendship
and love while the breath remains
in our bodies, please God. I'll mix for
you."

The two friends sat together at the table,
the sconce, or lamp which was fastened to
the wall, flinging its soft light upon their
countenances ; while Nelly, who had seated
herself on a box near the chimney, was
engaged mending a stocking.

Well, in troth, 'tis queer," she said, in
alow voice, as if talking to herself; "I
never seen the like; never, never."

"What is it, Nelly?" said the piper,
looking round towards lier.

Oil, notion', only about a thrace,
Dinny."

'' Well," observed the piper, '' dlirames,
they say, go by contraries : I hope
'wasn't about a wedding' : that 'ud be the
sign of a funeral. And 'twould be bad to
thrace about a cat, or a magpie, or the
like of that. By my troth, Nelly — to tell
you the honest bint of my mind — I don't set
much value on thames at all. They're
nothing' here or there ; 'tis only the rambling'
of the brain when the stomach is too
hard set to aise itself, and sind the blood
whispering' soft through the veins. Hows' -
ever, some believes in 'um, and some don't ;
I am not all sure of it myself."

'that's good," observed the captain;
'' but after all we may say or think, Denny,
there is something in those drames, — at
haste in some of 'um. That's my opinion.
But, after all, I'm no judge, and none of
ns is a judge in things of this sort: because
why? because, you see, there is a
great dale of book knowledge necessary

for a man to understand some things,
especially things of this sort. Mother wit
is not enough; that's very well in one way,
but it's not enough, nor like enough in
unravel' what I may call mysteries of
science, I heard Father Markham saying'
the same words — and who can go beyond
Father Markham? But I like to hear
thames would myself; for someway or
other, they're simple like, and just as if
God — blessed be His holy name — was
putting' things before a person to warn us,
and put us on our guard."

\Vell," said Denny, " that's all fair
and straight, John Gorman, and there's
no contradiction' what you said about
Father Markham, since, of course, no one
knows better than him how things goes
in th' other world, and in this too ; but
still and all those priests — and I spake wit
reverence of their names — still and all,
they don't want to tell you or me, or the
likes of us, everything that contains the
business of th' other world. All that's of
id, we're bound to do what they tell us,
but .we can't inquire too far. That's my

vardld ; " and raising the tumbler from
the table, '' Here's God bless us all, and
may we never forget our duty to God and
man. Your health, Nelly," he said ; and
then expressed his wish to hear her dream.

Nelly thus commenced, still plying her
needle : —

Well, of all nights in the year, 'twas the
day that Mister Moore gave the thrace to
the boys and girls after they finished the
reek near the big orchard ; — and a line
day it was, and plenty of eaten' and
drinking' was there: and sure enough Paddy
Larkin was in his elements ; 'twould do
your heart good to see himself and Any
Dreelin latin id out on the lawn, and
Master Harry a playing on the fiddle for
'em. And when they finished the last
step, ^ Come, Nelly,' said the ould master,
you and I must have a turn on the floor.'
Well, Dinny, in all your born days you
never seen that man that was in spirits
like the ould master that day. ' Come,
Nelly,' says he to me, — and so he tuck
myself by the waist, and says he to Master
Harry, ' Take up that violin, you 3^oung

shkamp, and give Nelly and myself the
*' Humours of Gain." ' Well, I was so
'shamed, I couldn't see the grass on the
lawn, and everyone was laughing' and
murrain' for the ould gentleman and
myself. Howsoever, we turned out, and
Master Harry struck up the ' Humours of
Gain.' And if th' ould master didn't
cut capers, and shake himself, my name is
not Nelly Corkoran. Every one clapped
and shouted ; and myself ran away behind
the girls, when th' ould rogne — Grod pardon
me — was trying to catch me. Well, that
night, when I went to bed I began drain ' ;
and what d'ye think appeared to me? As
sure as I'm here I thought 'twas in ^
Marlborough Park I was, and there was
all the ladies and gentlemen in grand carriages
rowlin' along afore the Court, and
down the fields, and pipers and fiddlers
plain' as hard as ever they could, and
more ladies and gentlemen dancing' in the
demesne in another place, and all laughing'
and cheering' and as funny as ever you see.
And what did I see but all the carriages
turned of a sudden into hearses, and black

plumes hanging about 'em ; and crjin'
and bawling', enough to soften your heart.
But who was there, d'ye think ? God
preserve 'em from all hurt and harm this
night, I pray. — We'd never think? No
less than Master Herbert Granville and
Miss Fanny Moore. There's for ye : — and
she lying' out in a corpse, the Lord save us,
and everyone crying' and grieving' for the
sweet flower that was cut down in her
bloom. And meeting' Peggy Cummins in
the succession, says I to her, ' Peggy
machine,' says I, ' what come over her, or
how did it happen at all, and she so young
and fair, and spirited, and stout, and
strong ? but none of us is sure of the day
nor the hour that the good God may call
on us. And poor Master Herbert ! ' says I,
Peggy, that'll come of Mm ? I pity 'im
in my heart. See how pale and sorrowful
he's lookin'. Oh, Master Herbert !
Master Herbert ! if there was one in the
world that loved another in the heart
widen', 'twas you that doated on Miss
Fanny, the darling' lady. And now she 'is
gone from you, that'll become of you ? "

And there myself and Peggy sat down
under a tree crying' and wailing' — but what
d'ye think ? — all of a sudden the sun blazed
out in the sky, and such beautiful light ye
never see as began shining' and sparkling'
all over the defense and round about
everywhere ; and the hearses turned into
carriages, and the funeral into a pattern,
and there was music and dancing', and all
sorts of merriment going' on, and Master
Herbert and Miss Fanny in the middle of
'em, the most beautiful couple ever your
eyes looked on. And up they came to
myself and Peggy : and we jumped up wit
the joy; — and, Lord save me! I struck
my head again the bed-post, and woke
up."

Hee-e-e ! hee-e-e ! " ejaculated Denny,
as he threw himself back in his chair and
gave vent to a prolonged laugh.

Be the powders of war, Nelly," he said
at length, " you had a hard tussle of it.
And what do you make out of it now ?
Pm thinking' 'twould take the wisest men
that ever was in Egypt to explain that
thrace. AAYell, at any rate'' rising as he

spoke, and extend ing his arm with a long-drawn
aspiration, 'i'm for a good, sound
sleep now. What's your will, captain ? "

"I'm for the same," replied the captain,
and both gentlemen retired into the front
bed-room, leaving Nelly to tidy everything
for the night. Nelly shortly afterwards
followed the example of her companions,
and all was soon silent in the Glazement,

CHAPTER V.

THE Glanville — Herbert LOST IN
SPECULATION.

Perhaps there is nothing in all the perplexing
changes and evolutions of life that
is more trying and painful than the sudden
descent from circumstances of affluence
and luxury to a state of* comparative
poverty and want.

Here the mind and feelings become to a
certain extent paralyzed ; and deprived of
their usual sustaining influences by the
unexpected stroke of fortune, they collapse
into such a state of helplessness and dismay
as renders them wholly powerless in purpose
and action. It is not that the accustomed
comforts and indulgences are withdrawn
from the sufferer in this retrograde
destiny; it is not that he has fallen upon

rougher ground, and is obliged to plod his
way through tangled and thorny paths
from which his better providence had
hitherto saved him, it is not all this that
constitutes the sorrow and the bitterness
and the pain of his altered situation ; oh
no, there is a something else that goes
deeper, and sharper, and more excruciating
into his existence, that pierces and stings
and lacerates his very being, that scars
his heart and blasts his brain ; it is this,
that the sympathies and affections of the
soul undergo a recoil, which is followed by
a wasting and desolation of the heart that
rob life of i^ charms and darken and
sadden its whole atmosphere. That
pure gushing fountain of affection which
God's own living touch called forth in
the deep recesses of the heart is checked,
and chilled, and frozen ; it is driven backward
in its soft sweet flow of friendship,
of tenderness and of love, and made to
recoil and darken, and thicken around its
centre, stopping up the orifices of the
heart, and overwhelming it in darkness
and in misery.

It is true that there are to be found those
who do not frown upon the sorrows of the
poor and the unfortunate ; but who, on
the contrary, open their bosoms in sympathetic
response to their woes and disappointments,
and, thank God, it is so ; but
society so called, the taste, the fashion, the
wealth, the grandeur — the great ruling
circle of civilized life, — here it is that the
children of misfortune are hustled from
the scene, and sent back to fret, and sigh,
and mourn in the dark corners of their
isolation and neglect. "Who is there that
has not witnessed at one time or another,
in the course of his or her life, if that life
has been prolonged to any considerable
extent, the coldness and neglect which have
marked the conduct and bearing of individuals
towards those who have fallen into
poverty through the vagaries of fortune;
but who, while the sun of prosperity had
shone upon their pathway, were courted,
and caressed, and idolized by those same
individuals. It is then this repulsion, this
laceration of the tender affections of the
heart which gives to the blow of adversity

its darkest and deadliest effect.
Everything can be borne but that ;
poverty, hardship, toil, all the various inconveniences
and disadvantages accruing
from a state of dependence and struggle
are endurable, but neglect and contempt
sit heavily on the heart, and crush all its
vital energies.

But it may be said that patience and
fortitude, which are attributes of the soul,
and happily infused into it by the all wise
Architect of the human economy, are sufficient
to counteract the evils here spoken
of, and to convert them even into sources
of contentment and peace. Doubtless
this is true, for God " tempers the wind to
the shorn lamb ;" but yet, in regarding
the conditions of society, and the arbitrary
laws, wise or unwise as they may happen
to be, which it imposes on its members
and its votaries, the punishment which it
inflicts on the victims of variable fortune
are difficult to be borne, and it is the
living and active Spirit of the divine influence
alone that can mitigate the severity
of that punishment, and reconcile its

objects to their altered circumstances.
The poor labouring classes, that is, those
whose lot lias been early thrown amid the
hardships and trials of life, who bave been
born, as it were, to '' earn their bread in
the sweat of their brow," those are enabled
from habitude and special adaptation to
meet the rude storms of everyday life
without feeling any great degree of mental
or bodily disturbance ; within their own
proper s]3liere they may experience all the
comfort and happiness arising from an easy
mind, and a heart sustained and strengthened
by the sympathies around them.
But to such as have been born in a loftier
sphere, and whose feelings and affections
have been matured therein ; and who have
afterwards fallen by the stroke of adversity
down to another sphere, where a different
set of accidents and circumstances await
them, the transition is dreadful, and the
suffering intense in the highest degree.

All this, however, must, and can be endured,
for Providence ever mingles the cup
of bitterness with a proportion of honey
that renders the draught bearable ; but

VOL. I. Q

yet the sudden plunge from one temperature
of fortune to another much lower
and colder cannot in the very nature of
the human constitution but be attended
with exquisite suffering. In many cases
this change proves fatal ; in many cases,
too, it is followed by no very distressing
results, and we may undertake to say that
in many cases it may be attended with
ultimate beneficial consequences ; but in
no case can it possibly occur without great
immediate suffering.

Such is the nature of man, such is the
nature of society ; from the combined influences
of both, the heart and mind equally
suffer in the wreck of fortune. And this
suffering is of a character different from
anything that may arise in the lives of
the ordinary poor, and far more intense.

The influence of religion, no doubt,
restores peace to the sufferer and smoothes
the path of affliction, and it is the only influence
that can effect this ; but in order to
avail of the services of this sweet comforter
of the human heart, she must be wooed
and won in the hour when fortune smiles,

and not sought for merely when the gloom
of calamity has spread over life's scene,
and the light of enjoyment has faded from
it, it may be, for ever. Religion invoked
then, may not answer to the call, the heart
may close its portals against the inspiration
that can alone draw her down from
her throne on high; and then, abandoned
and wrecked, forlorn and desolate, the unhappy
wretch sinks amid the dark and
pitiless waves of adversity.

But in the midst of all this desolation
of altered fortune, when the sympathy of
friends wanes into indies terence and neglect,
when the light of social feeling fades into
the darkness of exclusion, and when all that
was once consoling, complimentary, and
flattering has disappeared like sunshine
from the scene, there is one steady changeless
light burning through the gloom, and
sending out its soft and mellow radiance
to cheer the stricken wanderer's way, and
that is the light of woman's love. No
matter how fiercely fortune may deal out
her blows to the wretched sufferer — no
matter how deep his wounds, how dark
G 2 ,

his sorrows, how hopeless his fate ; no
matter bj whom forsaken and despised ;
the heart of woman offers him an asylum,
and sheds hope and comfort, and healing
in his path. And how strange is all this !
Is there not a divinity breathing in this
extraordinary and wonderful sympathy
which the heart of woman feels and exercises
towards him she loves? When all
forsake him; when heaven itself would
seem to have closed its portals against
him, when nothing save desolation and
despair encompass him on every side ; then,
oh then, comes out from the clouds this
angel of light, spreads the wings of hei*
love over and around him, recalls him from
his sorrows, and pours balm into his wounds.
Is this not a divinity ? If it be a divinity
and surely it is — what then is religion ?
Is love religion ? God is love ; and the
worship of God is love.

We shall now turn our attention to the
Granvilles, and trace, in as few words as
the nature of the subject will permit us,
the outline of the history of that family.
George Granville, the head of the family,

who lead been dead for some time previous to
the commencement of our story j, was a man
of honourable descent, as well as of honourable
conduct, though not distinguished in
the management of his affairs by any great
amount of prudence or of foresight. In
fact, he was a most improvident man.
His conduct, it is true, though improvident
and careless, was not that of a man who
was indifferent to the interests of his
family, or who rested satisfied with procuring
his own gratifications while in this
vale of tears, but not unwilling to allow
his children to sink or swim after he had
himself passed away from the enjoyments
and pleasures of life. Neo, he had combined
in his character two traits which
appeared not a little contradictory, he was
fond of his ease and comfort, and spared
no expense to ensure them ; while, at the
same time, he felt anxiety — indeed, the
only anxiety he ever seemed to feel — that
his children should be independent and
happy after him, and with this view he was
ever planning and devising new schemes
for the improvement and enlargement of

his property, but never putting those
schemes into operation. In plain terms,
he was a busy, idle man, fond of himself,
and fond of his family, but never advancing
the prosperity of either.

He had inherited considerable property
in land from his father; which, though
not a fee-simple property, was yet a secure
inheritance, and a source of unfailing
revenue, if only attended to and managed
with ordinary care and attention. This
property, which was let, or sub-let rather,
for as we have said, it was not held
in fee by the Granvilles, to some twenty
or thirty tenants, brought in an income of
some fifteen hundred pounds a year,
clear of the rent charge of the first proprietor
or owner, Lord Milford, an absentee
landlord. Indeed his lordship probably
never knew clearly that he had any claim at
all upon those lands whence the Granvilles
derived their chief income ; inasmuch ashe
had never seen them, perhaps never
heard of them, and most certainly never
troubled himself about them. He had one
chief agent over his whole property, which

lay in different parts of the country, and
from him he received every half year a
certain amount of rental, without troubling
himself about the particular lands that
produced it, or the accounts which were
connected with it. This agent of his, one
Bartholomew, or Bartley Croker, managed
the property and tenantry as it seemed well
to him ; and Lord Milford felt satisfied that
everything was as it ought to be. Besides
the rowland of Gurthroo, from wliicli
George Granville derived the revenue we
have mentioned, he held a small piece of
land on the estate of Fairborough, containing
a beautiful mansion, lawn, gardens,
and sheep walks, on which he resided.
For this he paid an adequate rent to the
Earl of Fairborough, who was a resident
nobleman, and one who differed almost in
every respect from his brother peer. Lord
Milford. In addition to all this, George
Granville derived a nice income from a
small property owned by his wife, who was
the daughter of a gentleman residing in a
neighbouring county. So that altogether
his circumstances were independent, and

such as promised a fair prospect of independence
and happiness to his descendants.
But, as we have said, he was a man of
strange contradictions ; he loved his ease,
and he loved his pleasures ; and although
he loved his wife and children too, he
never could accommodate himself to the
only rational mode of practically manifesting
that love. That is, to husband his
means, and so secure the permanence of
his income as to render it a perpetual
fountain for their use and enjoyment.
No, he could not acquire, under any
change of events, or from any example of
experience throughout his career, the
simple knowledge contained in the common
phrase which was so often on his own

lips,—

Be wise and beware,
Of blessings take care."

He raced, he hunted, he gave great dinner-parties,
he drank, he kept a pack of
harriers — in short, he did everything that
was done by everybody else in his station,
without regard to means or results, but
from the sole motive of leading what he

called au '' easy life," and of being as " good
as his neighbours." This was bad enough,
but even this mio^ht be borne to a o-reat extent,
if due attention had been paid to the interests
of his property. This property, that
is, the land of Gurthroo, might be greatly
enhanced in value if he only devoted a little
expenditure to its improvement. It consisted,
in great part, of hilly and marshy
land, which, if judiciously manipulated,
would increase in value nearly twofold.
But this he would not trouble himself with ;
he wished to live " at his ease, and make his
family comfortable." This was his mode
of reasonings: this was the sort of vas^ue
idea he possessed of happiness. He felt
at ease " when hunting and racing, or
drinking and carousing; but to plan and
oversee the improvement of his property
would be a trouble altogether incompatible
with his view of what constituted " ease."
Bartley Croker, the chief agent of Lord
Milford, however, soon brought him to his
senses, and showed him the value of living
at his ease. This man, who had formerly
been a practising attorney, and who, as the

tenantry used to say, was a match for the
devil — indeed he went by the sobriquet of
Bartley the devil " — was very forbearing
towards George Granville, as regarded the
collection of the rent charge on the lands
of Gurthroo. He never troubled him about
it in fact ; but on the contrary, whenever
Granville referred to it at their convivial
meetings, Bartley would pooh-pooh the
whole thing as not worth mentioning.
Don't mention it, Granville, my dear
fellow," he would say, " 'tis all right ;
the fact of the matter is, I question
whether there is any claim upon you
at all. At all events, never trouble yourself
about it ; I'll manage all that for
you."

'eyes, Croker," Granville would say, "I
have often reflected upon that myself, and
I must say that in the main I agree with
you. It is, and ever has been, a question
with me, whether or not my ancestors
possessed a prior claim to the property —
ay before the name of Milford was known.
But, however that may be, I don't care to
trouble myself about it ; I feel as independent

a man as Lord Milford himself — yes,
and by the great C^sar," slapping his
clenched hand upon the table, " I can boast
a longer line of honourable'descent than any
Milford that ever rose from the ashes of
his country."

** I have always said so," would be the
rejoinder, *' and more than that, I have
ever contended that, if the matter were
well examined into, your prior right to the
inheritance of Garthroo could be established
beyond a cavil. But, look here, my
dear sir, it is not for me to express publicly
you understand me — opinions of this
sort. I have a duty to discharge to my
principal ; and that I shall fulfil to the
letter ; but in your case, my advise is sub
rosa, of course, never trouble yourself with
the payment of that rent charge. My
Lord Milford himself is quite conscious of
the dubious nature of his claim ; and,
depend upon it, he does not desire to stir
up litigation upon those points."

In such manner would this crafty and
unscrupulous agent act upon the indolence
and vanity of Granville and lull him into

an oblivion of what related to this duty and
his interests. The consequences of all this
must appear very evident. George Granville
allowed the Gurthroo property to run
into arrear, until the amount was such as
rendered it impossible for him, in view of
his other liabilities, to meet it ; and, consequently,
in the course of not many years,
the crash came which reduced the Granville
family from a state of independence
and of luxury to comparative poverty and
destitution.

Bartley the Devil had waited his opportunity
until the accumulation of arrears was
such as to ensure success to his design, and
then he struck quick and hard. The lease of
Gurthroo was transferred to him by Lord
Milford, with a small rise of course in the
rent, but still it was merely nominal.
Ash Grove, the residence of the Granvilles,
became for a time the abode of keepers,
bailiffs, and proctors. Mrs. Granville's
dowry, which consisted of the profit rent
of a property bequeathed to her by her
father, in a neighbouring county, as already
referred to, was also embraced within the

grasp of the law ; and ruin and desolation
sat cowering on the rooftree of a once
wealthy, independent, and happy family.
Lord Fairborough, however, in accordance
with his kindly nature, dealt considerately
and gently with the family. He forgave
them all the arrears of rent due to him on
the Ash Grove property; and otherwise
aided and relieved them under the pressure
of their distress. Not so with the attorney
agent, he took his pound of flesh ; lie had no
mercy ; he was implacable ; he was acting
for his employer, he said (the same employer
was out of the country, and knew
nothing of the event beyond his agent's
version of it, and that was honest, no
doubt) ; he understood the rights of property,
and would maintain them ; and so
he seized, and clutched, and sold everything
that he could lay hand upon. But George
Granville was in an ocean of debt ; from
year to year he had borrowed large sums
of money to maintain his sporting extravagance
; his betting losses alone amounted
to several thousands, and all those sums
had been borrowed. Such then was the

ultimate result of that 'easy *' life wliicli
lie had prided himself on passing ; a life,
by-the-bye, which so far from being
*easy," was one of the most harassing
and tumultuous, and floundering that it
was possible to conceive. He now, feeling
a little depressed, as he would say — this
depression was despair — began to attach
himself with unusual ardour to the whisky
bottle ; until after a few years of drinking,
and sleeping, and moping, he passed away
from the scenes of his folly and his improvidence,
leaving his family of two sons and
a daughter, with their poor afflicted
mother, to bewail their unhappy lot. But,
to do justice to the memory of the unhappy
man, some short time before death had
come to him, he opened his eyes to the
magnitude of the follies and wrongs he
had committed ; he became repentant, he
wept for his wife and children, whose attentions
to his declining health and to his
comfort were constant and loving. And
when the final moment came, his last words
as he expired in their arms, were — '' Kate
my children — pardon, pardon — love me

Goal ! my God, mercy — have pity on —
them."

After this sad termination of a reckless
and improvident career, the widow and
children endeavoured, as far as circumstances
enabled them, to make their present
condition bearable. They were greatly
assisted in this by the kindhearted. benevolence
of Lord and Lady Fairborough,
who not only frequently visited them, but
did them such other acts of kindness, and
in so delicate and considerate a manner, too,
as greatly lightened the burthen of their
calamity, and strengthened them to a renewal
of exertion in their now contracted
and difficult sphere. Of the three surviving
children of George Granville, two, Herbert
and Julia, had finished their education in
the seminaries of the neighbouring city of
Cushport ; and the other, George, who was
called after his father, and was about
twelve years of age, had up to a recent
period attended a school in the village,
and was now about being placed under the
tuition of a gentleman who taught a class
composed of the sons of the neighbouring

gentry in a villa close by ; the intention
being to have him prepared for the study
of the medical profession. Herbert possessed
a high order of talents, and had
greatly distinguished himself at college.
He was high up in the mathematical
sciences ; and his classical attainments as
well as his intimate knowledge of some of
the languages of Europe gave a depth
and richness, as well as a polish and
brilliancy to his mind, which rendered him
one of the most accomplished gentlemen
in his county.

Julia also was highly educated ; not
only was she acquainted with music and
the languages of Italy and France, but
what is of far superior importance — indeed
of the highest importance as a
subject of true and genuine education —
she was thoroughly imbued with the principles
of the Christian religion, and with
a knowledge of the duties of life. She
was besides a lady of active habits ; and
intelligent and judicious in the management
of domestic matters.

Mrs. Granville was, at the time of

wliicb we write, greatly broken down in
mind and body, but yet her fine natural
character was visible through the clouded
atmosphere that surrounded her; and
young George, though yet in the bud of
life, showed unmistakable symptoms of the
prominent characteristics of the family.

There lived with the family at this time,
and for many years previously, an old gentleman,
brother of Mrs. Granville, whose
name was Benjamin Brown, or '' Uncle
Ben," as he was familiarly called in the
household. He was her second eldest
brother, and had never married. He had
a small income derived from property
left him by his father, with whom he had
lived until the death of the latter ; after
• this event he removed from the old family
residence, which had now" come into the
possession of his eldest brother and his
children, to Ash Grove, the residence of
the Granvilles.

Uncle Ben was a good and amiable
man, and was very much attached to his
sister, Mrs. Granville, as well as to his
nephews and niece. He was fond of

VOL. I. n

hunting and shooting, but after the
calamity that had befallen the family he
gave up these sports, and turned his
whole attention to the management of the
few acres which surrounded the mansion of
Ash Grove.

In point of fact, if it were not for Uncle
Been, it would be difficult to see how the
family could now get on. Ho bustled
about, and inspected and superintended
everything ; and was the greatest possible
support to the spirits and hopes of everyone.
He was a fine, portly, cheerful man,
with a noble and benevolent countenance,
over which a ripple of discontent scarcely
ever passed. He had a brother, of whom
he often spoke with great affection and
admiration. He was next to himself, and
a year or two younger ; but he had been
away in Canada for many years, where he
had settled upon some lands which the
Government had bestowed upon him inconsideration
of his services as a British
officer. He frequently communicated with
him ; and kept him posted up on the
principal events that were transpiring in

the '' Old land of St. Patrick," as lie would
say, but especially in all matters that
affected the '' old stock."

One evening, a few months before the
commencement of our story, as he sat in
the parlour in his old brown leather armchair,
while Mrs. Granville, Julia, and
Herbert were seated around the table, occupied
in reading and conversation, he
turned round, taking his pipe from his
mouth, and leisurely emitting a long line
of blue smoke into the air, and addressing
Herbert, said, —

Herbert, I have received a letter from
brother Felix to-day ; I forgot telling you
before ; — but I don't know that I have
seen you to-day before."

'' Upon my word you have, uncle, for I
was in the back meadow with you in the
morning, looking at the grass, and talking
about the prospect of the hay-crop."

'' Oh, to be sure," said Uncle Ben, '' so
you were — confound it, how things do
sometimes slip from my memory. But
then, I hadn't received the letter at that
time : it was only about four o'clock in
H 2

the afternoon I received it. Well, what
do you think the old major says ? — not
that he is very old either ; for, confound it,
I'm not old, and he is a year or two younger.
How years do j>s.ss to be sure ! JSFow,
when I was a young man, that is, about
your age, or a little older — you are not
much over eighteen ; for Julia won't be
seventeen until next August, and you are
only eighteen months older than her ; what
would that leave you ? I can't calculate
it precisely myself."

Herbert and the ladies laughed ; but
Uncle Ben continued, —

I should say, according to my calculation,
that that would leave you eighteen
years and two months."

Herbert and Julia burst into another fit
of laughter ; but Mrs. Granville looked a
little puzzled.

'eyes," continued Uncle Ben, "this is
June, and from this to August are two
months, that is it; so that you are then
exactly eighteen years and two months."

*' Well, really," observed Mrs. Granville,
'' that looks like it, but still it cannot be

correct, for Herbert was born on the 12tli
of February; so that if he were only
eighteen years and two months now, he
must not have been born until April ; so
there must be a mistake somewhere, Ben,"
and she smiled.

The young people again burst out into
immoderate laughter, while Uncle Ben and
Mrs. Granville looked at each other with a
puzzled but smiling expression of countenance.


Xow, mamma," said Julia, 'you cannot
be in earnest," the tears still rolling
from her eves from the lao-liter, ''vou
cannot be serious, mamma, surely ! "

'' How serious, dear ? " observed Mrs.
Granville. '' I am quite sure that the 12th
of February is Herbert's birthday; I
don't make any mistake in that; and I
cannot, therefore, see why you should
take me up, my dear; but I do confess
that I cannot still make out that Herbert's
age now is only eighteen years and two
months, for assuredly on the 12th of
August next you will be seventeen and he
will be eighteen and a half."

*' Well now, mamma," broke in Herbert,
'' don't you see you have only to
deduct from eighteen years and a half,
the two months intervening between this
and the 12th of August, and you have
my present age exactly, which is eighteen
years and four months ? "

*' To be sure, Herbert," ejaculated Uncle
Ben, waking up from a reverie in which he
seemed buried for the last five minutes,
*' two from six leaves four, that's ]plain to
anybody; don't you see it now, Betty ?"
(Letitia was the Christian name of Mrs.
Granville.)

'well, I knew," observed Mrs. Granville,
" that there was some mistake, and I
now see how we both were led into it ; we
were allowing ourselves to suppose that
Herbert was born in this month, and we
added to his age the two months between
this and August, fors-ettino^ that in Auo-ust
he will be eighteen years and a half, instead
of eighteen years and four months,
which our mode of calculation would
leave him."

*' Well, upon my word I am glad the

thing is satisfactorily arranged at last,"
observed Herbert, as he leant back in his
chair and began tossing his sister's curls
around her neck, and facetiously commenting
on their disorderly appearance.
But, uncle, what about the letter ? How
is Uncle Felix ? "

Oh, confound it," exclaimed Uncle
Ben, " it had nearly passed out of my mind.
But, Herbert, he is still most desirous to
have you with him. You know, Betty, like
myself, hehas remained a bachelor — he shall
never marry now. That disappointment
he met with at Dublin he never could get
over. Confound me, if I ever believe that
she rejected him ; but, you see, that hardhearted
speculating father of hers who was
aspiring to build up a family — he was of
very low origin himself — he it was who
compelled her to marry the other. You
see he had the advantage of possessing a
handsome estate, while Felix was dependent
entirely upon his commission. But at any
rate, like myself, his marrying days are
over."

*why, uncle," observed Julia slily,

*' many men much older than you have
married — how I should be delighted to
have an Aunt Brown ! "

Get away with you, you baggage ! a
pretty thing indeed, at my time of life to
enter into the cares and anxieties of
married life."

What, uncle ? you don't mean to say
that married life is perplexed with more
cares and anxieties than single ? All have
cares, married and single, no doubt, but I
fancy that when the balance is struck between
single life and married, all things
being weighed, the former has nothing to
boast over the latter in that respect."

« Well," replied Uncle Ben, '' much depends
on circumstances, indeed, the chief
circumstance is the suitableness of the
persons who are united ; if they accord in
every essential particular, then I say — all
else being right, I mean as to establishment
— then I say, that the married life is
the better and happier. But the union of
two persons incompatible in character and
manner, must be a fearful trial upon the
patience, and a desperate drawback to

happiness. Confound me, if I ttouM not
rather live alone in a wilderness than be
so united. At any rate, Julia, my dear,
your old Uncle Ben is not at all likely, at
this time of day, to change his present
condition. ^N'o, no — but hark'ee, Julia, I
hope I am not going to die before I see
somebody I know enjoying the blessings
of matrimonial life — ha ! ha ! you little
rogue," and he touched her chin with glee.
'' But," he continued, directing his
observations to Herbert, " brother Felix
expresses great anxiety to see you. He
thinks that Canada is the only place for
you under present circumstances ; it offers,
he says, a fine field for young men of
energy and ability ; and he states emphatically
that if you join him, all that is his,
or may be his hereafter, will be yours indue
course. That is something to think
of, my boy ; it is not every day that a man
is presented with a golden plum. Yet,
notwithstanding all this Glitter in the
distance, I am not the man that would
force any person to act against his convictions,
or his views as to what was

necessary for his welfare and happiness.
What is a blessing to one is often a curse
to another; so that no man — or woman
either — should be coerced into any manner
of proceeding that did not run in a straight
line with his feelings. Why, man, if I only
desired to gratify my personal inclinations,
I would never consent to your leaving
Ireland; because, whatever may be her
faults and her sorrows, whatever her disorders
and her misgovernment, I feel that
she is dear to us all — I wouldn't leave
her for all the wealth of El Dorado. Nor
would your father. Confound me if I know
who would that ever passed the meridian of
his life upon her emerald bosom ; and — "
Uncle Ben was gradually verging towards
an enthusiastic love of country, when
Herbert checked him by observing carelessly
—

I don't know that T should much care
what country held me, provided only I
were happy. It is very little difference I
think whether an Irish sky, or a Canadian
sky, or any other sky hung above the
place of our sojourn, provided our rational

aspirations vere fulfilled. Sot that I am
indifferent to country — for I trust I have
sufficient patriotism to induce me to make
some sacrifice in that respect — it is not
that ; but there are particular times and
circumstances when and under which it is
difficult for one to reconcile himself to
living in the country which gave him
birth ; you are ever reminded of subjects
which disturb and torture you ; and you
cannot obtain that repose of the mind and
heart which is so essential to your happiness.
Again, look at the distracted and
wretched state of Ireland in other respects;
there is neither peace nor security within
her bounds. If Ireland were as she ought
to be, and — well, I am not altogether selfish,
— but if Ireland were as she ought to
be, that is to say, wisely and judiciously
governed, and if my own reasonable views
as to my particular interests might be
carried out here, there is not a country in the
world I should prefer to it — of course not."
Here again he began to play with his
sister's curls, and to rest upon her
shoulder.

"Well, Herbert, here is the letter; read
it for yourself, I must retire now. I feel
a little weary. Good-night, Julia, goodnight,
dear," and he saluted the foreheads
of his sister and niece. In a few minutes
after, all had retired, and silence reigned
throughout the mansion.

Chapter YI.

THE captain's ACCOUNT OF HIS ADVENTURES
IN Foreign PARTS.

Denny," said the captain, on the morning
following the dance at the Glazement, when
he and the piper were seated at breakfast —
'' Denny, how did you rest last night ? A
person doesn't always feel tight and trim
when a navigation' in strange waters ;
though, it wasn't all strange to you either.
How long is it since you hove to in this
harbour before — a fortnight now or
more ? "

"Be the powers, nothing' could be
sounder than my sleep, captain. I
rolled id off like a spinning' top ; and in
regard of how long since I was here ; why,
it was tomorrow three weeks, the night I
was coming' from Bawnguie, over the hills ;

and a hard night of wind it was; and
raisin' too. These are fine prayers, captain
where do you get your milk ? At Mr.
Moore's be course ? — fine ropy milk it is.
These are rattling' eggs, Nelly. You have
your own hens, be course ? "

'come now, Denny," broke in x^elly,
'' take this other egg, and ate something' ;
sure you'll starve out an' out if you
don't ate more than that. Take that now,
I bid you."

'' Oh, now, don't ask me, Nelly ; agra —
I never ate more hearty in all my born
days. — Be the powers ; I'm fit for all sorts
of diversion now, from coaxing a party
girl, to highway robbery."

"Let us go out in the garden, Denny,"
interposed the captain, ''if so be you won't
ate any more ; did you see my summerhouse
yet?"

Where is it ? " asked Denny ; " come,
let us have a stretch in it."

The captain and Denny proceeded to
the garden, and after passing to its
northern extremity, the captain opened a
small wicket, and passed out, followed by

this companion; then wheeling round towards
the rear of the cottage, they ascended
the rock by steps cut into its face,
and reaching the summit they entered a
bower formed of birch, hazel, and spruce
trees, and whose opening or door looked
out over the glen below, and towards the
sloping hills that swept back in broken
folds to the eastward. The long stretch of
level and marshy land that lay off between
the north and east was also visible, with
its scattered farm-houses, and occasional
little villages crouched beside the rough
thorn-crowned hedges that crossed and
re-crossed the wide expanse.

They sat upon a natural bench of stone
and turf inside the bower, and surveyed the
scene beneath and beyond them. It was a
lovely morning too ; the sun shone out in
remarkable brilliancy ; the sky was blue and
clear ; and the air was fragrant from shrub
and wild flower. The glen looked to advantage,
for the bright morning rays were
shining down upon its scattered cottages
and gardens, and upon its prattling stream
that went dancing and winding among the

rocks, and firs, and sedges, wliicli bordered
and adorned it on either side; the disjointed
hills too, or rather the collection oE
hilly mounds which lay scattered beyond,
and appeared as outposts to the receding
mountain, which rested its head in the
clouds far away — these too looked gay in
the radiance. It was a wild, but yet a
pleasing scene ; and to the captain and
the piper it was fraught with memories
which constituted, as far as they were
concerned, its chief charm. They sat
silent for a while calmly contemplating it ;
at length Denny observed, —

'' The ould glen, after all, captain, is not
the worst place in the world ; what do you
say?"

'' No," answered the captain, '' far from
it. Do you know, Denny, that whenever I
sit here of a morning or an evening, something
comes over me that softens my heart
and makes me feel queer ? It isn't sorrow
or pain that comes to me ; it isn't lonesomeness
either; and it isn't all pleasure
either : but it is a feeling made up of all
these. My father and mother, and my two

sisters rise up before me ; I think of my
early years when I used to go over there
across the stream to ould Lesson's school,
and when I had my friends, ay, and my
enemies too, among the boys — just like the
world, in all its stages ; my early wanderings
in foreign parts, and my ups and
downs in the world are before my eyes ;
and then my present peace and comfort
here in the ould spot where my forefathers,
I may say, lived and died, mixes itself
up with the other thoughts, and I feel
as I said, queer. I like it, anyhow ;
and to tell you the truth, I often look for
it."

Oh, be course," said Denny, " a
man's heart warms to the spot where he
was born, and where his mother nursed
him : that's the way it goes, you know.
There's my ould mother down there in
the glen, where her seven generations were
bred, born, and reared ; sure it stands to
raison that my heart warms to that spot
beyond any other place in the world.
"Why wouldn't it ? But not all the same
as you who were away in foreign parts,

VOL. I. I

and didn't see Ireland or the sky over it
for ever so long, I was always to the fore
and, maybe, didn't think as inch of only
times as if I was out of sight of it.
That's the differ, captain."

We cannot help observing here, upon the
almost equality of sentiment which marked
these two men, who were otherwise very
different ; that is, they were very different,
not indeed in character and disposition,
for in this respect they resembled each
other very much, but in that degree of
knowledge and experience which causes
such a chasm between man and man. The
piper was possessed of much deep generous
feeling, but he knew very little of the ways
of men, their ambitions, their subtleties,
their frauds. He also possessed a certain
amount of sagacity which enabled him to
perceive the peculiar weaknesses and foibles
of those in his own sphere of life ; but
beyond this he could not go.

But the captain was to some extent an
educated man ; and in addition to this, his
experience, both in Ireland and America,
opened him a wide field in which to exercise

a naturally strong intellect, already
enlightened by the education he had received,
limited though it was.

They were both contemporaries, and
lived in the same neighbourhood; they
went to school together for a time ; they
played top, and hurled together : and they
played music, and danced together : and
all this formed a bond of union between
them which continued unbroken to the last.
They were still in the prime of life, and
vigorous in constitution.

Howsoever," continued Denny, after a
pause, " the ould place here looks grander
and further than ever it did widen my
recollection. But money's do anything.
It cost you a good penny, captain, to put
it in repair as it is — I may say 'tis built
out o' the new ; and there's the garden
and the field, and the hedges, and the
trees. — Oh, begot, it must cost a power."

'' Yes, Denny, it cost something handsome
; but still an all, 'tis nothing compared
with the comfort of it. But, Denny,
I earned the money hard that I spent in
these little improvements ; and still and all,
1 2

'tis well now. I have enough to last for
my life, and to keep me in comfort ; and
when I die — and I hope to die in favour
with the Almighty who provides for and
watches over us all — I hope to be able to
lave something' that'll be of service to
others."

I believe, sure enough," said Denny,
in slow musing accents, '' 'tis hard working'
in America. I was thinking' one time — oh,
long after you were gone — to try my luck
there; but you see the ould mother
couldn't be left alone, and so I never
went. I always heard 'twas a fine place
for a man : — what way does the music go
there?"

Didn't I ever tell you about that part
of the world ? " asked the captain. " I
thought we often had long conversations
about different parts of America ? "

'' Oh, but nothing' to signify," said Denny,
we had little sketches about it, that's
all."

Well, now, as the morning is glorious
praises be to His holy name who gives
us lisrht and life — and as neither of us have

Doting in particular to do, I'll tell you,
Denny, some of my own ups and downs in
America."

Berries ! " ejaculated Denny, '* nothing'
could be more pleasing'. And, sure enough,
'tis a ^Yondllerful fine day, glory be to God."

The captain then commenced.

*' Denny, do you know the reason they
call me captain ? "

'why, not very well," was Denny's
answer.

*' It is this, Denny ; I was once a sailor,
as I may say, in a vessel ; for that matter
I often acted in that line ; and sometimes
I was made captain of the watch ; and so
I was called captain on that account.
Blow me," he exclaimed, " but there's
many a worse life than a sailor's. At least,
I was not badly off when I lived on board
a ship. But to come to the point : after I
left my uncle's house, that morning — you
know all about that ? "

Oh, in troth I do," answered Denny;
*' the ould man was out of his senses when
he missed you ; but I pacified him when I
would him all."

Well," resumed the captain, " after I
left, I went straight to Cork harbour ; and
it took me some time, and hardship too, to
reach there ; but I met with friends on the
road, and I got on well enough. I stayed
at a house — a sort of sheebeen or public-house
— at the Cove, waiting for a vessel
that I was told would be sailing to America
in a few days. I used to walk about there
while I was waiting ; and once I went upto
Cork city in company with a young man
who was staying in the same house hath
me, to inquire about the vessel that he was
waiting for to go back in, for he belonged
to some place in America ; I didn't mind
where, then. He was a decent young man,
and he had friends in the city ; and so he
took me about with him ; and I felt very
easy in my mind, considering everything.
After a couple of days the vessel was
ready, and we went back to the Cove, and
went on board. That young man behaved
like a brother to me ; I wasn't able to pay
for a place in the cabin, but he made up
for me the difference of price between the
cabin and the steerage ; and so I was with

himself in the cabin. There were only two
other passengers besides ourselves there ;
for she wasn't a regular passenger vessel
So we set sail with a fair wind out of the
harbour — and a noble harbour it is ; fine
bold land around it on every side, covered
with great trees in different parts, and the
river Lee flowing into it like a great belt
of silver. After a few days I began to
recover from the grief that was sitting at
my heart while I could see the shores of
poor old Ireland, beckoning to me, like, to
come back and never mind roving. She
was a good, tight little ship ; her name was
the Boreas ; and when the sea rose, and
the waves came sweeping down like wild
frothing horses, she bent down, and then
rose up like a swallows."

'' Stop, now, captain, if you phase," said
Denny, who while the narrative was proceeding,
had his mouth open, and his eyes
intently fixed on the narrator, evidently
wondering at the extraordinary circumstances
that were being unfolded. *' Stop,
captain, if you phase ; I was often thinking'
what do they do in the night when they're

going' to America ; as I am would, they don't
see no thin' but father and sky when
they're on the road; — how do they contrive
in the night when they can't see
anything, I may say the length of my arm
from them ? That's what I often wondered
at. Do they draw in towards the bank ;
and tie the ship to the trees, and then go
sleep in a house ? "

'' Too-ot, too-ot," was the reply ; " bank
indeed ! why, man alive, there's no more
bank there than on the palm of your hand.
Don't you know, that the Atlantic Ocean
is over two thousand miles wide in the
narrowest part of it ; and as for the length,
there's no bounds to it, I may say, except
the poles of the world ? "

Denny appeared much bewildered, but
said nothing, contenting himself to give
expression to his feelings by pursing out
his lips, and breathing a sort of prolonged
whistle, at the end of which he exclaimed,
Thunder an' turf, that bates all ; and I
tell you what it is, Jack Roman, I'd no
more go travelling' in such a place than I'd
go leaping' from the top of Corrigduv ; and

that's what you might call a high
leap."

The capta continued : —

Well, we went along safe enough, anyway
; and myself, and my friend, and the
other two passengers kept good company
together, for they were civil men, and had
good knowledge of the world. And the
captain and mate of the ship, too, were
conversable men, and desirous to do everything
to make our time pass by pleasantly.
The ship was bound to Canada ; so they
told me when we where out about a week ; —
I never minded where we were going at
first, because all parts of America were
the same to me ; and all I cared was to
get rid of my grief and trouble after the
death of those that were dear to me ; and
to earn money somehow or other in
honesty ; and come back again to Ireland
and the old place if God was pleased to
prosper me."

Stay, Jack Gorman," broke in Denny ;
were you sick on the journey ? I always
heard tell that the sea-sickness is wonderful
in ships, and that few escapes it."

The first day or two," resumed the
capta, " I was sick enough, believe me ;
but the mate gave me a mug of salt water,
and after drinking it I began to get well
again. Well, we were more than half-way
on our voyage, and about a fortnight on the
water when one night I heard great noise
and trampling on the deck, and the roaring
of wind, and the slapping of ropes, or
something or another that gave me a
proper start. I jumped out of bed, put on
my trousers and coat, and put my head up
above the cabin door : and such a sight I
never saw before ; I saw worse though
often enough afterwards. There was the
ocean like a million of mad bulls with
white horns and manes, rearing, plunging,
roaring ; as if they wanted nothing but to
drive their horns through the ship, and
scatter her like a cock of hay."

Oh, murther ! murther ! " ejaculated
Denny, as he drew np his legs close
together under his chin, his arms clasped
around them, and his eyes fixed on the
captain devouring every word that fell
from him. " Jack Gorman ! Jack Gorman,

agra ! did you lose your life ? Odi-aroo-oo,
what did you say to 'em ? Did you shut
your eyes, and run under the table ?
Phoo-o-o, Jack, Jack, don't show 'em tome
any more."

The captain went on without heeding
the remarks of his companion : '* I was
not standing above half a minute on the
steps of the companion when a tremendous
sea swept over the deck, and struck me
back into the cabin, leaving me senseless
on the floor below. Alter a little time I
recovered, but I was up to my knees in
water when I stood on my feet. By this
time my fellow-passengers were on their
legs ; and there was great confusion and
uproar everywhere. We all strove to
go up the stairs again to look out, but
the door was fastened above, and we
were obliged to go back again : we
couldn't stand or sit in the cabin on
account of the water ; so we had nothing
to do but to get into our bunks again,
and lie down. It was a dreadful time ;
the roaring and screeching of the waves
and wind were dreadful to hear : there

was thunder and lightning too, for the
lightning used to blaze into our berths
and almost blind us. How long we were
that way I couldn't tell then, but I
found out afterwards 'twas two days and
a night.

"At last the noise of the storm was gone ;
there was a soft easy moaning, like a banshee,
and a churning like the churning of
milk when the butter is gathering. After
this there was the noise of shuffling feet on
the deck; and a shouting far away like
the same as a woman shouting to men to
come in to dinner."

'' Glory be to God ! " exclaimed Denny,
who during the captain's recital of the
shipwreck was crouched upon his face, his
elbows and knees on the turf, his eyes
closed, and bis clenched hand occasionally
striking this breast ; " Glory be to God ! "
he exclaimed, *' may be a house was hard
by, and the hanatliee (the housekeeper) was
calling' ye in to dry and warm yourselves ;
and give ye, may be a drop out of the
bottle, afore we'd sit down to your dinners.
Anyway, 'twas a blessing' to seethe women

cliuriiin' the butter ; and 'tis like, that the
bread was tuck off the griddle, hot and
warm fit for a Capper (a slice of bread
and butter) : and Jack, agra, did you run
for the bare life when you heard the woman
calling' ? Oh, musa go tho, lath, a heerna !
(praise be to the Lord for ever)"

The captain continued after this interruption,
" The hatch was immediately
taken from the companion, and a voice
was heard shouting to ns to come np. We
jumped up, ascended the companion stairs,
and stood on the deck. And such a sight
as met our eyes ! there was no more mast,
nor sail, nor rope standing on the vessel
than there is on the palm of my hand, ina
manner. And side by side with us was
a large French barque that was after
coming to our relief."

Hurroo, hurroo," shouted Denny
jumping from his crouching posture on the
turf, and brandishing one of his arms above
his head ; " hurroo, the French for ever ;
they were never backward on a pinch ; and
whisper, Jack," he said, stooping down and
nearly breathing into the captain's mouth.

did they tell you, they were coming' to
save Ireland, eh ? "

** Just listen," said the captain ; " scheme
were only three men standing on the deck
of our vessel besides ourselves — that is
besides the three other passengers and
myself — and those were the mate and two
of the sailors ; the rest were swept overboard
in the tempest. The French captain
and three or four of his men, however,
stept on our deck ; and after talking a
little while with the mate, for the captain
spoke English fair enough, we all went onboard
the French ship. She was called
the Gorveaic, I think; and a fine staunch
ship she was, though she looked a little battered.
She was twice the size of our own
vessel, and had three masts ; but her topmasts
and yards were off, so that she didn't
look as tall as she would if they were
on. She was a banker, so they told me,
going home from the fishery on the banks,
near Newfoundland. So, you must think,
Denny, my boy, that we were in a droll
quandary, turning about on a voyage to
France, instead of going to Canada."

Well'* muttered Denny, lost in
apparent perplexity, *' ye might turn in to
Ireland on your way, and lind a hand to
the boys, if they were took to the mountains
; but, may be, you'd rather not come
back again, that time ; well, couldn't you
be let go on the bank ; and thin you could
make your journey along the side of the
country to Canada, supposing' 'wasn't faraway
from the place you were lost."

*' Too-o-ot, too-o-ot," was the rejoinder,
the banks are deep down in the water,
they're not what you think at all, Denny ;
they are fishing-banks or ledges where the
fishery is carried on, and they are hundreds
of miles from Canada, and no country at
all between the two places. But fortune
favoured us still further ; in the course
of the day we fell in with a vessel that
was bound to Newfoundland ; and we went
on board of her. She was a fish-vessel ;
and was returning from a place called Labrador,
with a cargo of fish, and a number
of fishermen who belonged to Newfoundland
and were now sfoing^ home after
spending the summer fishing in that place.

We were well treated, as well as could
be expected, as there wasn't much room to
spare in her, and there was a great crowd
on board of her. The captain of her
told us that we'd have an opportunity
of going to Canada from Newfoundland ;
and so we were very well satisfied ; and
sure we ought after the danger we went
through, and the sad prospect of being
brought to France, back over the ocean
again, without knowing what to do when
we arrived there. The other men, my
fellow-passengers, knew Newfoundland
very well, and told me that they were
there before, and that we wouldn't be long
going to Canada from there. So we goton
well enough, we had plenty to eat and
drink, fish and biscuit, and dough-boys,
and pork, and tea."

Ah ! there's for you, tay,^^ interrupted
Denny ; " and were the men drinking' tay ?
and what sort of latin' is dough-boys ? I
often heard tell that they ages chiltern
(Grod 'between us an' all harm) in foreign
parts far away : but. Jack, how could a
Christian stomach the likes ? Look now

(rising with a solemn gravity), I'd rather
ate my bag, ay, and my chanter to the
end of it, than touch one of them little
children wit my teeth. Be this stick in
my hand I would (he held no stick in his
hand), and more than that, I'd go to bed
fasten' for a month afore I'd look at one
of 'smiled."

'' Too-o-ot, too-o-ot," resumed the captain,
'' they're not children at all, man
alive ; they are balls made out of flour and
boiled with pork. However, at the end
of fourteen days we arrived at Newfoundland,
at a place called Conception
Bay. The vessel and her crew and
passengers belonged to a town called
Carbonear in that bay. The master of
the vessel, one Duggan, brought myself
and Gillespy — Charley Gillesj^y, that's
the young man that stayed at the
same lodging with me at the Cove — he
brought us to his own house : the other
two men went to a boarding-house. After
stopping for a day there we said we'd goto
a boarding-house, but he wouldn't hear of
it. ' No,' says he, ' stay here as long as

VOL. I. K

je are in the town, and until ye get
a chance for Quebec, stay here and
welcome.' "

That was civil of m," observed Denny.
^' I wonder might he be anything to the
Duggans of Shkelpstown ; they're clever
decent people as you'd meet in a day's
walk ; I stays wit 'm whenever I'm on my
rounds in them parts, and be the same
token, Paddy Duggan's sister's son's
daughter that was married to Jim Leary's
uncle's daughter's brother-in-law is my
own third and fourth cousin ; and a fine
comely girl she was till she died of the
fever, God bless the hearers. But there's
the Duggans of Boolagh ; they're nothing'
to me though, but they're related to the
Brennans of Shronebeg, and the Brennans
and Reddigans are related be the mother's
side. That's the way it is."

'' No," replied the captain, '' he wasn't
one of that family at all, he was a Tipperary
man ; a noble specimen of his countrymen ;
he was, brave, generous, and hospitable.
He was well to do then, he had a fine
house, and his wife was as noble as himself.

He had three sons and three daughters,
that was bis family, and I never saw finer
young men and women, for, I may say they
were all men and women, the youngest,
who was a girl, being at least sixteen years
of age.

Well, I stopped there for nearly a
month, myself and Gillespy; and no chance
offered all that time of a vessel going to any
part of Canada ; at last the two other men
who stayed at the boarding-house and used
to meet us or we them, every day, told us
one morning that they wouldn't wait any
longer, and that they had prepared to proceed
to Halifax in Nova Scotia, to which
place they were informed a vessel was soon
going from St. John's the capital city of
Newfoundland. They said that they had
settled to go in the Carbonear packet-boat
the next day ; and that if we liked — that is,
myself and Gillespy — we might go with
them.

Gillespy consented at once; but I hesitated,
because Mr. Daggan, our hospitable
entertainer, told me that if I liked to stay
in Newfoundland, he would give me employment

and good wages ; lie often said
this to me while we were staying at his
house ; and as I had no friend or relation
to meet in Canada, and as I left home only
for employment and reward in America, I
thought that it was no matter to me in
what part of that country I might be settled
provided I got what I wanted. So I agreed
to remain with Mr. Dao'Ofan.

"My fellow-passengers left Carbonear the
next morning, on their way to St. John's ;
and I didn't see them again for many years,
but I did meet 'em afterwards, as I'll let
you know before I have finished my
story.

' Now,' says Mr. Duggan to me the evening
after my companions went away, ' you
understand keeping accounts, so you told
me, very well ; I want a young man of your
sort to take charge of that store of mine
on the wharf below, that I showed you the
other day; the man I have there now
doesn't know much about figures, or writing
either ; now, I'll ship you for two summers
and a winter as storekeeper and general
man ; and I'll give you fifty pounds and

jour diet for that term ; and if we like
each other afterwards, I'll rise your wages.
That's mj offer. I like you, young man,'
says he, ' and I have no doubt, that you
and I will agree well together. Come,'
says he, slapping me on the shoulder,
what do you think of that ? ' "

'' How much did he say ? " asked Denny,
interrupting the narrative.

'' Fifty pounds and. my diet for two summers
and a winter," repeated the captain.

How much might that be in the year ? "
asked Denny.

'' Why," answered the captain, '' it would
be nearly thirty-seven pounds, besides my
support."

'stare an' ages," exclaimed Denny,
your fortune was made ; thunder and
turf, what did you say to 'm? maybe
though he wasn't in earnest. An' he wasn't
one of the Duggans of Shkelpstown ?
Tliirtij- seven pounds for one year, besides
eaten' and drinking'. I often heard tell
of Newfoundland ; but that's more than
ever I heard yet. Whisper, Jack, isn't
id a cat chin' cod-fish they do be there ?

Thirty-seven pounds for one year, let alone
the latin' and drinking' ! Ned Tracy was
in Newfoundland, Ned in the bog below ;
they call 'm the Codchj ; and he would me
that the devil himself, God guard ns
all, couldn't stand the weather there.
Dinny,' says he to me one day, ' when
you'd be walking' on the road in that
country you'd have to mind yourself
for fear any one was walking' before you;
for, do you mind, the frost would set the
nails flying' out of his shoes, and you'd be
struck in the eyes like a shot out of a gun,
and you'd never see a wink again.' How
did you bring your eyesight out of it at all.
Jack?"

''Too-o-ot, too-o-ot" replied the
captain, ** that's all balderdash, Denny.
There's great frost and snow there, to
be sure ; but not as bad as all that. I'll
tell you what I saw there, though; and
what I did myself. I saw the snow in a
street there as high as the houses ; and I
walked up that street ; and I used to step
on the roofs of the houses, here and thereon
either side of me, while I was going

along. And more than that, I walked over
one of the horses when I was leaving that
street to go into another street. That's
what I saw, and did, Denny; but itself,
the weather in that country is not so bad
as Ned the Caddy said. Ned was like
many others that went to America, they
were too idle and too lazy to work; and
they came back to Ireland again,
excusing themselves for havens nothing
after their time by blaming and abusing
the country they left. That's the way,
Denny ; I knew a good many of that
sort, and 'tis often I was ashamed of 'em ;
for they were good for neither king nor
country. They were good enough for
drinking rum and whisky, and for making
fools of themselves ; but they had neither
industry, nor sense, nor gumption, nor anything
that 'd be a credit to them or to the
country they hailed from. That's the way
'twas with them, Denny.

But, to go on with my story. I
served out my time with Mr. Duggan
according to my shipping paper, that is,
my agreement ; and a good and pleasant

time enough it Alas, when I once got used
to it. I stood the store the first winter,
that is, from the time I shipped until the
next spring ; that was the busy time for
store business. Then came the seal-hunting
time, about the 1st of March ; and sure
enough there was great work and bustle
going on then, preparing for the ice.
Mr. Duggan got his vessel and crew
ready among the rest; and he gave me
my choice to go with him in the vessel,
or to stay at home and mind the store.
But I made choice of going ; since I longed
to know what way the seals were hunted
on the ice, and by what contrivance the
vessels were brought through it. So one
of the skipper's daughters — skipper is the
name of a man who commands a vessel, or
who has the management of any business ;
the same as we call master — one of his
daughters took charge of the store — there
wasn't much doing there then — and away I
went to the ice. She was a snug tidy
craft, and called the Mary, after Mrs.
Duggan ; and she carried thirty-four men,
myself being one of the number. We were

going for a day and a night, in sight
of land all the time ; with the ocean
covered with ice on one side of us, and the
hilly uneven land covered with snow on the
other ; till at last, all of a sudden, the
second day after we left the harbour, I saw
nothing but ice all around, and no sign of
land. There were little lochs of blue water
shining' here and there throu2rli the miles
of ice ; and along the edges of those lochs
and for yards and yards behind them were
scattered hundreds upon hundreds of little
creatures that I thought were white lambs,
but those were the seals. All now was
preparation and bustle ; every man took his
hauling rope and gaff ; and out they went
over the bows and sides of the vessel, and
myself among 'em. We scattered, two and
two over the ice, which by this time was
breaking and splitting into big and little
squares and pieces of every shape, like
blankets floating on a pond. Away we
went, leaping from i)a]i to jean — that's the
name they call the floating ice — away we
went, till we reached the seals. When I
came to the first little creature, and saw it

with its innocent face turned up to me,
and the tears rolling down from its big
black soft eyes mj heart relented; I
couldn't strike it. When my comrade, who
Alas after using his bat on at least a score
of 'em all around, came up to where I
was, he lifted his bat to strike the creature
that was looking at me. I couldn't stand
it ; I jumped up from where I was
kneeling, and looking at the creature, I
turned the blow aside. ' No,' I said to the
man, 'you mustn't strike that seal; I'd
redden this ice with my own heart's blood
before I'd allow any man to shed one drop
of hers.' The man drew back, and looked
at me with scorn ; and then lifting his arm
again, he was about to strike the seal ; but
before his blow came down I had sprung
at his neck, and flung him sprawling into
the sea. I took her into my arms, and I
rested her head on my breast : * No one
must touch you my innocent lamb ; your
mother, it may be, is dead ; and may be,
you had sisters, and they are dead ; but Jack
Gorman knows how to feel for the stricken
heart; — Go, and live;' and I dropped

her quietly into the ocean ; she dived under
the ice, and I saw her no more."

And the man, Jack Gorman — was he
drowned ? " asked Denny, in a tremulous
tone.

'' Xo ; he was not drowned ; I watched
him, in order to prevent his being drowned,
if such a danger should appear ; but I saw
him rise upon a pan at the opposite side of
the loch, and walk away from the place.
And do you know what, Denny Mullins ?
From that day out there was no mortal
power could make me kill one of them
seals. I walked away from the spot with
a heavy heart ; and I turned my back on
the places where the men were killing them,
but I made a solemn vow to the throbbing
of my own heart that I would never lay a
murdering hand on any living creature that
looked into my face with the tears in its
eyes.

'' After this, I rambled about the ice for
an hour or more, sometimes resting myself
under an arch, or on the steps of a tower ;
and sometimes climbing up to one of the
galleries of a castle, or to the roof of a

church, until at last I began to feel Imngr}^;
and I began to turn my steps towards the
ship. But when I looked around me, I could
see no ship. But I did see what made me
tremble, I tell you ; I saw the ice swelling
and rising, and heaving as if there was a
million of bullocks under it and trying to
get up. The ice pans, too, were breaking
and bursting, and tumbling one over
another in rows and heaps like big long
swarthy of hay raked up together; and
there was a noise running through the
whole of it as if the bullocks were roaring,
and smothering, and knocking their horns
against each other. I was frightened, you
may be sure. I was tossed up and down
like a child in a swing ; and the sight left
my eyes. I blessed myself; and called
upon God not to forsake me. I began to
think that my sins were now coming
against me; and that the vengeance of
heaven was going to fall on me. My eyes
began to open ; and I could see before meas
plain as if 'twas wrote in big letters of
red ink, the whole history of my life. Butin
the middle of that history, as it were, I

saw raj mother and my sisters standing up
like towers in height, and dressed all in
white, with a blaze of light all-dazzling
around them. I threw myself down on
my knees ; I raised np my hands and arms
to heaven, and I called for mercy ; I then
felt a reel in mj head, and I fell, my face
upon the ice. I knew — I heard no more
till I was grasped by the arm, and raised
on my legs. Two men stood near me ;
and telling me to ' come along,' they
walked on for a minute or two, one of them
holding me by the arm ; and then letting
me go, they told me to ' cheer up,' and to
follow them. Well, I recovered myself at
once ; and will you believe me ? I never
in the course of my life felt so much
courage in my heart as I did at that
moment. I jumped after them from pan
to pan, over the lochs of the ocean — and
some of them were more than three yards
wide, with, may be, a little round lump of
ice floating in the middle — sometimes one or
other of us fell into the water, not beingable
to make our leap good; but we were helped
out by the others, who used to reach out

the end of a bat, or long pole, by means of
wliicli we were lifted up on the other side.
I fell in, and was dragged out that way
myself three or four times. On, on, on we
went, and struggled, and toiled ; the
heaving, and rolling, and thundering of
the wide fields of white ice going on all
the time ; but worse than that, the sky
began to grow dark and sulky, and the
wind began to puff and shout through the
arches and towers of the ice-castles. But
we still rushed and reeled on, never
pausing to notice anything; except now
and then the two men would shout out a
word to each other about the direction
they were taking.

In this way we continued for hours — I
can't tell now how long — but it appeared
as long as a whole day to me : at last, we
heard a crack, as if something had burst.
That's a gun,' says the foremost man.
• All right,' says the other ; ' heave
ahead :' and we still kept on. In about
half an hour after we had heard the shot —
for it was a shot fired from a vessel, for a

signal — we saw a vessel, heavy and. black
looking, and half rolling on her side, with
two bare masts ; like a rick of turf bulged in
the side, and two poles stuck in the middle
of it. Up we came to her ; and after
going 'round and round her, looking for a
pan to jump on, for the sea was all around
her, we caught a rope at last, which was
thrown to us by one of the crew, and we
were hauled on deck — more dead than
alive, I tell you. But this wasn't the
vessel I belonged to. The fact of the
matter is, I never saw my own vessel
aofain during; the spring continued in
this one, which was called the Mary Jane,
and belonged to St. John's, until the month
of May, when she returned to port with
four thousand seals on board. After stopping
about a week in St. John's, where I
was treated with great civility and hospitality
by the owner of the vessel, one ' Nor-wood,'
I set out for Carbonear. I went on
foot to a place called Portugal Cove, on
the sea-shore ; and from that I crossed
over the bay in the packet-boat to .

It took me a day and a night to
make the journey, tliougli the distance is
not thirty miles. I found Mr. Duggan at
home before me, with three thousand
seals in his vessel. He and the whole
family were delighted to see me. They
were afraid I was lost ; but still they had
hoped that I would be picked up by some
other vessel. So there, Denny, was my
first adventure in America."

During the recital of the captain's
narrative, Denny appeared bewildered,
and lost in amazement. He had drawn
closer to his companion ; and with his
elbows resting on his knees, and his chin
and cheeks buried in his broad palms, he
stared fixedly into the narrator's face;
while his mouth and eyes were drawn
back, and open to their widest capacity.


When the captain ceased, Denny changed
his position ; and turning his back on his
companion he commenced to speak, without
any apparent desire of being answered,
or in any way interrupted in the course
of his spoken meditations.

'' I am bothered out and out," he began;
*' and what harm if it was any one but Jack
Gorman that made me this way ? Oh, Jack
Gorman, Jack Gorman, 'tis little I thought,
when you and I went to school together,
down to Pat Lesson's at the Cross, and
were larnin' our prayers and our catechism,
that it would come to this at last ; you on
the black dismal sea, a say in' of your
prayers afore going' to be drowned ; and I
far away at home, never known' where
you were, nor never thinking' of nothing'.
And the mother that bore you was sleeping'
in her grave ; and lying' by her side in
darkness and peace were the sisters that
loved you. The Lord look down on us all
this blessed day. And the little creature
was crying' in the "middle of the sea. The
seal ; I wonder what's the seal ! And
where was her own people on that dismal
day ? May be they were dead and gone to
th' other world ; and sure enough 'tis
hard to tell. I wonder was her mother
alive ! There is myself ; if I was going'
to be drowned, or, may be, to be killed ;
and my mother not known' about it, but,

VOL, I. L

may be, clreamin' I was coming' home to
her. — Ochone ! oclione ! And who is the
man was going' to murther the creature,
and the tears in her eyes ? Be th' eternal,
if I was to the fore I'd smash the two eyes
into smithereens in his head, the shone
of blazes. Ha ! ha ! what did I do when
that terrible miscreant, old Croker's son,
was ill-treating that poor honest colleen,
Teddy John's daughter — what did I do
thin ? I came behind him, and I struck 'm
a wipe of my fist that sint him spinning'
headlong into the ditch : and I would the
colleen to run for her life. Then when he
got up he followed myself, but Paddy
Larkin was coming' across from Moore's,
and when he see him, and what he was
coin', he runs at him, and gives him a
paulthogue (a blow from the fist) that sets
him rowlin' on the broad of his back. Ha !
ha ! — only for Paddy Larkin came up, I'd
never ate a bit of the world's bread that
day.

'' Well, where's this I was ? Och, yes : I
was a spain' of that crater' that was crying'
on the sea ; and where is she now, I wonder?

may be, gone to glory. 'Twas a
quare place for lier to be, and no one belonging'
to her to the fore to take her part :
only for Jack Gorman, she'd be murthered
out and oat by that spalpsen of the devil
God pardon me for mentioning' the
name of the baste."

Here he muttered a prayer, and struck
his breast ; after which he resumed : —

'^ And there was bullocks under the sea,
and train' to come up ; — by what he would
me, 'twas like a shaky bog, risen' and
sinking' : — and what 'ud bring bullocks
there? They couldn't be natural bullocks
— sea-bullocks, that's what they were.
Och, millia murther ! I'd lose my life if
I was there. And what could the poor
Christians do only for the mercy of God
that keeps 'em safe and sound, when everyone
is train' to ruinate 'em ? But God is
stronger than the devil any how, and His
power and glory can't be put down."

He paused awhile ; and then turning to
his companion, he said, with the most
solemn emphasis and deliberation, —

Jack Gorman, believe me, what I am

L 2 •':

going' to say, — Only for the mercy of the
blessed Redeemer of the world, and the
intercession of His blessed mother you
wouldn't be alive to-day."

CHAPTER Iii.

A Dinner-party AT BROOKFIELD HALL —
VARIOUS OPINIONS ON CURRENT EVENTS.

Ashen Denny Mullins, the piper, had concluded
his meditations on the captain's
narrative of the sealing voyage, the latter
rose ff^m his seat, and telling Denny that
he had to be down at Brookfield Hall, the
residence of Mr. George Moore, at ten
o'clock, in order to see after some accounts,
and to lend a hand in making preparations
for a dinner-party that was to take place
there in the evening, he descended from
the summer-house followed by his companion.
When they had reached the door
of the cottage, the captain took a key from
beneath a flag that lay close by, and unlocked
the door. There was no one inside,

for Nelly Corcoran had gone down to
the hall after breakfast to assist at the
harvest work. After the captain had
stayed about twenty minutes inside, he
issued out again arrayed in the garb in
which he was first presented to the reader,
with the exception that his trousers were a
light fustian web, and his feet were covered
with a pair of strong pumps, without hole
or break. Having locked the door, and
returned the key to its hiding-place, he
passed out of the garden, accompanied by
the piper. Instead of taking the ridge of
the hill as he had done on the preceding
evening when he was returning to the
cottage, he descended in a zigzag line
towards the bottom of the glen, following
the broken line of a thick furze-crowned
hedge which swept down through swell
and hollow, mid briar and fern, and fragments
of rock, to the narrow road which
wound down the glen in the direction of
Ballydine. Having reached this road they
slackened their pace, and walked quietly
along side by side, beguiling the way in
cheerful conversation.

'Twill be a great night, 'tis like, at
the hall, when the gentlemen and the ladies
will be all there ; and nothing' to trouble
'em but fine eaten' and drinking," observed
the piper, alluding to the approaching
dinner-party that was to be given at Mr.
George Moore's, the owner of Brookfield
Hall.

'rare you going there?" asked the
captain.

Oh, yes," was the reply, " Master
Harry would me to be there at seven o'clock
for my life, and to have my pipes in full
haze, as he said. He is a droll young
gentleman, too ; but, by my troth there is
a good drop in him ; he has a heart and
a hand for the poor and the distressed,
anyway; but sure 'tis kind father for
him. And for the matter of that where
would you find, in all Ireland's ground, a
better or an anciently family than the
Moores of Brookfield ? 'Isn't all as one
as that flintgut mother of his ; but what
could you expect from the Cretan of
Moola? they were never good, locJc,
stock, or barrels

Yes, Denny," said the captain, " where
the seed is not sound, much can't be expected
from the crop. The Moores are an
old, sound stock. From father to son,
through generations, running from the
fountain-head of the Milesian blood, they
came down to the present time, Without
spot or stain on 'em — true to their country,
true to their religion, and — what need to
say it — true to their God. Denny " (placing
his forefinger on the piper's shoulder), " flat
man is avails true to his God, ivlien he is
found at the side of Ills religion and his
country. The Moores always wore well ;
they had neither break nor flaw in 'em.
As for the Ore dans — well, the less said the
better ! at any rate, Harry Moore or his
sister. Miss Fanny, haven't a drop of
Credan blood in their veins : they are the
real blossom from the sound old seed."

'' Ah then," interrupted Denny, '' what
is your notion, captain, about the Granvilless
and themselves ? — I mane, by course,
about Master Herbert and Miss Fanny ;
they say he have no chance with Mrs.
Moore, the ould flintgut ; and that she must

have her own way. I don't know myself
low it's going' to be, exception' this — that
the Granvilles is a match any day for the
Moores ; yis, for all that they aren't come
of the ould Miles stock itself — bnt it's
all alike ; as yoa said this minute, the
Granvilles were always loyal to their God ;
and true to religion and country. There'll
yon find a young gentleman equal to
Master Herbert in figure and fashion,
and lament, ay, and in noble blood ?
That's the chat, captain. Isn't he fit to bethe
husband of the Kino of Eno-land's
daughter ? But I don't know myself how
it's going to be."

The Granvilles, Denny, are an old
family in Ireland," replied the captain,
'' they came over with Strongbow ; but
they always behaved like gentlemen. As
for Milesian blood, that's good, but we
must be reasonable — there's blood as good
as ever it was — and why not ? The Granvilless
have a mixed stream in 'em, and
'tis all noble. They are Normans by
descent; and show me better blood than
that. They have a dash of the Danish

drop in 'em, too ; and that's not to be
despised. And these two are strengthened
and sweetened with the Milesian blood,
dropping in, dropping in, these last seven
hundred years. Nothing can beat that,
Denny, my brick " (slapping the piper on
the shoulder).

By this time they had arrived at an angle
of the road, whence a narrow passage,
evidently the bed of a winter stream,
wound up the side of the hill on the left
of the road, that is the hill opposite to that
on which stood the captain's cottage, or
Glazement. The piper turned up this
defile ; while the captain proceeded on his
way towards the village.

Having arrived at the extremity of the
narrow road, where it joined the highway
leading down to the village, the captain
crossed over the fields in the rear of
Bloomfield Hall, and shortly issued out at
the gate leading to the farmyard, where he
found Mr. Moore occupied in the inspection
of some sheep which he had recently purchased.
His large ruddy face was wet
with perspiration, and his broad chest,

which was only partially covered, was
heaving with agitation, as he fanned himself
with a handkerchief which he held in
one hand, while he held a broad-brimmed
white hat in the other.

*' Hang those sheep," he was going on to
say, addressing himself to three or four of
his serving-men who were trying to turn
the sheep into a paddock, " hang those
sheep, they have already done more mischief
than they are worth ; that infernal
blockhead, Whitmore, ins, I fear imposed
upon me ; he is cunning enough at a
bargain, the fellow, with all his silly ways.
Holloa, captain, is this you ? Come along
with me, I want you to see to the amount
of these sheep, and to other little matters
I haven't had time to attend to." The
captain followed him into the coach-house.
*' Here," he said, pointing to the wall,
'' are the numbers and the prices of the
several classes of those sheep ; make a note
of them, and when you have done it, go
into the kitchen and tell the old steward
to give you the whole number of days those
reapers and binders have been employed,

and the wages per clay at wliicli they have
been engaged ; he has it all on a tally.
I depend upon your accuracy in these
matters. And, look ye here, captain ;
after you have done this, go down to the
village and order up a few gallons of
whiskey from that curmudgeon, Peter
Mackey ; I want to give the workmen
some drink this evening. By-the-bye,
captain, you know there are to be a few
gentlemen dining with me to-day; don't
forget beings here then ; and mind, have
your best pumps on."

All right, squire," was the reply, " I'll
run my craft alongside at the appointed
hour; and have everything snug and
tight."

The squire walked away, shaking his
stout heavy sides with laughter, as he
bustled across the farm-yard. The captain
took the glazed beehive from his head, and
casting his eye around at the several
squares and pillars of chalked arithmetic
which decorated it, he at length spat upon
one of the squares, and rubbed out the
figures ; then he took from his trouser's

pocket a small cane of chalk, and copied
upon the vacant square the figures on the
wall. This done he placed the hat upon
his head, crossed over the yard, and entered
the kitchen.

Steward ahoy ! " was his exclamation
as he entered. That ancient functionary
waddled along from the scullery when he
heard the summons, and bowing with
mock reverence to his visitor, asked what
might be his honour's will and pleasure.
After an interchange of whimsical and
satirical compliments between the two
gentlemen, the captain demolished one of
the arithmetical pillars of the glazed hat,
and substituted therefor another pillar
representing the numbers of the steward's
notched tallies. The captain then bowed
graciously to the steward, waving his beehive
in the action ; to which parting salutation
the steward ducked, like a jack-in-the-box
; for, to bend his back was
impossible, seeing that his frontal as well
as postern protuberance barred the operation.
The captain, having thus far discharged
the offices imposed upon him by

the squire, retraced his steps out into the
yard, and thence into the corn-fields, on
his way to the village. As he was going
along by the hedges, whistling a slow, soothing
air, he encountered Paddy Larkin, the
man with whom we saw him in conversation
in the corn-field on the day before.
Paddy was whistling too ; but it was the
brisker air of 'the Goose in the Bog."
The moment they perceived each other
the double melody ceased, and a mutual
frown passed over the visage of each.
The shadow, however, was only momentary,
for they saluted each other with
words of cheerful banter ; Paddy wheeling
round on his heel, and walking back
with the captain. When they came to
a curve in the line of the hedge by the
side of which they were advancing, they
both sat down in the shade of a large oak-tree,
whose extended arms concealed them
from the view of the reapers in the field.

Captain," said Paddy, casting a keen
glance into the face of his companion,
did you say anything to the master
yesterday about what we were saying ?

You knoY^', whatever I might say to you,
I wouldn't like the master to be made the
wiser of it. He and the likes of 'm are
against any changes in the country ; and
so well they may, since they have the
crame of it all to themselves ; and civil a
care they have for the poor people that's
wearing' their lives out to keep 'm in
grandeur. If I thought you would 'm what
we were saying, I wouldn't like it; and
other people wouldn't like it either, that's
what I say. The master is a good man
in his way, to be sure, and civil a man I
know of would lay a finger on him or his,
for the matter o' that; but yoii know,
and others know that he would do his best
to stop anything that would be going' on
for our freedom ; becase why ? Sure 'tis
plain to be seen ; he wants for nothing' ;
and besides, he is afraid that when the
ruction would be up, may be stragglers
might come down on him, and whip away
anything from him. Believe me, captain,
there's wiser and longer heads than mine or
yours either, if you knew it, direction' this
business."

'' jS[ow, Paddy Larkin," replied the
captain, 'Sou are out of trim, from stem
to stern ; sour ballast is light ; and what
you have of it, besides, is not rightly
stowed away Listen to me now ; lower
your top sails, haul in your flying jib, and
heave to a bit. Xow, first and foremost, I
said nothing to the master about you or
any one else of those you mean. Mind that,
my flying Dutchman. Mind, again, what
I'm going to say to you ; keep clear of
those that are advising: you as-ain't sense
and reason, and against the laws of God
and man. They have longer and wiser
heads is it ? I tell you what ; their heads
and your head will not keep company with
your shoulders very long if ye go on much
farther with your foolishness, a}^, and
your ivicJcedness too ; since, what else is it
but wickedness, to be blowing under poor
ignorant, but innocent men, to commit
robbery and murder, and then to be
hanged and jibbeted like dogs. What is
it that ever and always came of this work ?
Did any one ever hear tell of such societies
and factions doing any good to king or

country, to God or man ? Blow me if I
did ; and I'd like to see the man that could
say lie did. Paddy Larkin, you're a good
and decent man, by family and nature, I
know that, and I respect you, and I respected
your father before you; but I
know this much, that you are led astray,
and that you are in the dark concerning
what you are about. Take my advice — the
advice that I always gave you — furl your
sails, and come to anchor, and when you
want to go on a cruise keep in safe water.
That's Jack Gorman's advice to you and
to all men."

As he concluded he rose and walked
away. His companion rose too, evidently
much confounded, and uncertain as to
"whether or not he should offer any further
remarks in vindication of himself and his
principles. After a brief pause, however,
he addressed a few words to his retiring
companion.

Jack Gorman," he said, '' I clear you of
being an informer again me or others, but
you're not the man to tell me what to do. I
am advised by some of the brightest men

VOL. I. M

in Ireland. And they know what's
best."

He then walked away, and joined the
reapers.

The captain resumed his quiet whistle,
and proceeded on his w^aj across the fields,
until he reached the mountain road, down
which he passed without any interruption
until he arrived at the Cross, and entered
the shop of Peter Mackey.

Peter was standing behind his little
counter, arranging various bottles, jars,
and small parcels upon shelves, and
excavating, as he expressed it, his little
concerns. Peter was a man of no small
importance in the village, at least, so he
thought himself, and so did others. Like
other great men, he had risen from small
beginnings by industry and perseverance,
but more than all, as his neighbours believed
and said, by cutlery, that is, cunning.
He had thus risen to comparative independence
and comfort.

He was a coarse, vulgar-looking man,
with a large red nose, an awkward gait,
and watchful grey eyes. It was said by

all who knew him well that he was not overburdened
with patriotism, though few were
louder in their admiration of O'Connel and
Repeal. He was a favourite with the gentry
all round, whether O'ConneHtes or ,
Repealers or anti-Repealers,
and agreed with them all ; taking care,
however, to lean always towards the views
of those whose influence and wealth and
power were in the ascendant, especially
whenanyoneofthemhappenedtobepresent,
or, which was the same thing, when any
of their servants happened to be purchasing
anything in the shop, or taking a quiet
drop in the little back parlour. In short,
Peter Mackey was a diplomatist; no better or
worse than those of his species] who went
before him in all grades and classes, or who
were to come after him in due order of succession.
His back was turned towards the
captain when the latter entered the shop.

'ship ahoy, there' exclaimed the
captain.

Peter hustled round, presenting his nose
to the voice, and grinning with anticipated
delight.

M 2

'* Jingo, captain; jingo there," was the
response.

'' How does your hull bear up against
time and weather, my copper-fastened
clipper," inquired the captain.

'' Come, captain, none of your outlandish
lingo this morning; I'm not, to say, fit
for hard sparring this morning ; my
dancer is not rightly settled down since
last night. I tell you what, captain" (here
he pressed his big lips together, and gave
an ominous shake of the head), 'the times is
enough to make honest people look sharp-jingo,
there."

Peter," replied the captain, closing
one of his eyes, and piercing his neighbour
with the other, '' there is no man I know
of who can see breakers ahead clearer, even
with one eye, than your four bones. You
are a jewel, Peter ; but never mind. Send
up four gallons of whiskey (don't trouble
putting water in it, reserve that civility
for your other friends) to the Hall this
evening early — there's the order," taking
off the glazed beehive and presenting one
of the chalked parallelograms to the gaze
of the publican.

'' All square, captain," said Peter, " I
have as good spirits as ever dribbled from
a worm ; and the man who says that I
ever touch it with a drop of water doesn't
know the proprietor of the sign of the
Golden Sheaf,' that's all I say. Come
along, follow me, my ould sea-dog. I want
to give you a trial of this new dribble,"
and he passed into a small room at the
end of the counter, followed by the captain.


'' See here," he observed, as soon as they
were in the room, " that damned rascal,
Paddy Larkin, and about half a dozen of
his comrades were here last night, and a
nice row they got up with some respectable
men that came in, and were taking a
little refreshment. I must give Mr. Moore
a touch of my mind about that fellow —
but you needn't say anything. Jingo is
the word. Now, look at that spirit"
(holding up a bottle to the captain's view),
and tell me, isn't it the danchj f Taste it
now ; there, that much, just to be able to
say that it's the rale sort."

The captain, having tasted the whiskey —

barely tasted it, for lie never drank spirits,
except when in his own cottage he enjoyed
a tumbler of punch with a friend — he pronounced
it good ; he then wished the
publican good-bye, and walked out of the
shop.

No sooner had he disappeared than
Peter commenced a preparation by which
lie increased a certain quantity of the
spirit into double its bulk, after which he
filled a large jar, not with the compound,
but with the pure spirit, and despatched
a small boy and an ass with it to the
hall.

Towards the close of the evening the
Hall and its environs presented a busy
and bustling scene. The servants inside
were busily occupied in preparations for
the dinner-party, running to and fro, and
shouting out orders and counter-orders
from every part of the house ; while the
reapers and binders, mingled with beggars
and stragglers of all sexes and sizes, were
enjoying themselves in the farmyard in
drinking, singing, dancing, and capering,
with scarce an intermission.

The harvest lead been nearly completed,
and hence the last great gathering of the
out-door labourers for the season was
celebrated with all the hilarity and enthusiasm
which became the occasion. Paddy
Larkin and Anty Dreelin were footing it out
to the best music of Denny Mullins, who
volunteered to play a few tunes for the
sauce of the boys and girls, and not for any
lucre. He scorned that, for they were all
the boys and girls of the place, and he
wasn't jpartildar.

The captain made his appearance on the
scene, and was loudly greeted and called
upon to dance a hornpipe ; but he declined,
because, as he said, he was not in proper
trim. Some of the neighbouring farmers'
sons and daughters were also there, and
took part in the dance — Peggy Cummins
and Judy Casey, with Ned Doolin and
Bill Clearyy were especially conspicuous,
and won much admiration for their gay
and agreeable demeanour.

When the merriment was at its height,
and while Denny the piper was in full
blaze, accompanying the shrill music of his

chanter with the still more piercing music
of his voice, as he shouted to the dancers
to " mind their steps," and to '' heel and
toe it," with the exclamations — '' That's
you, Ned Doolin, drive it home ; " 'glory
to you, Peggy Cummins ; " " Now, Bill
Clearyy, clinch it, your soul ; " '' Long life
to you, Judy Casey; — hee-e-e ! hee-e-e ! " at
this auspicious moment the shuffling and
burly figure of Peter Mackey, the publican,
with its red nose, appeared in the yard.
This seemed to have given a still loftier
swing to the hilarity.

Peter was a man of rather doubtful
popularity; he was suspected of being
rather unfavourable to the general views
entertained by his customers on political
subjects, and this greatly diminished the
confidence which he would otherwise have
secured through the medium of his friendly
and apparently confiding character. At
any rate, he was generally regarded as a
cute, sensible man," who minded his own
business, and acted civilly towards his
customers. When he made his appearance
on the present occasion, there arose a

general cheer for lain; a cheer, wliicli,
doubtless, contained a large vein of irony ;
but Peter wasn't particular as to the nature
of the concealed feelings — he was conversant
enough in that species of disguise
himself; he therefore returned the compliment,
to all appearance with interest,
exclaiming, as he waved his hat, and
elevated his nose, —

Long life to sees, ladies and gentlemen;
and to you, Denny MuUins, and not forgetting
the captain here " (the captain's
countenance assumed a comic expression
at this moment) ; '' long life, and many
happy years to yes all;" here he took
from his coat pockets three or four bottles
of whiskey, and holding them to view,
exclaimed, — '^ Jingo, there! and now, boys,
it'll do yes no harm to take a small drop
from me."

The applause which followed this action
and speech was deafening. The glasses
and cups were in requisition immediately ;
and healths and jokes went round, all
tending to the health and happiness, and
fame and glory of Peter Mackey.

At this time the sounds of carriages and
of horsemen were heard in front of the
mansion. The dinner-party was assembling.
The Hall was all astir. The
steward rolled his huge bulk from pantry
to kitchen, and from kitchen to diningroom,
ordering, counter-ordering, approving,
condemning, growling, coughing,
sneezing, aud staggering. The announcement
of guests to the drawing-room
proceeded in rapid succession — Mr. Credan,
Mrs. and Miss Credan, Mr. Whitmore,
Rev. Dr. Markham, Mr. Granville and Miss
Granville, Sir Michael Carey, the Misses
Carey, Rev. Mr. Grigger, and some others.
Mr. Moore was in high glee, and talked
about his sheep, his corn crop, and the
prices of farm stock. Mrs. Moore was
delighted with the good looks, and the
charming dresses of the Misses Carey, and
expatiated on the elegance and propriety
of style and contrast. The Misses Moore,
Credan, and Granville were bubbling with
joy and felicitation. All appeared smiling
and happy, like an unclouded summer's
day. After a little time dinner was

announced, and Mr. Moore took in the
Misses Cares, one on either side ; Sir
Micliael gave his arm to Mrs. Moore ; Mr.
Whitmore approached Miss Moore with his
arm raised, but the lady happening to
catch the eye of Mr. Granville, at the
time glided round and took his arm ; while
Miss Credan took the arm of Mr. Whit-more;
Master Harry and Miss Granville
went in together, and the remaining
gentlemen followed. The Rev. Dr. Markham
said grace, and the feast was
inaugurated.

Mr. Granville, who sat a little below the
head of the table on the left side with Miss
Moore on his right, was replying to some
observation addressed to him by Mr.
Moore, when Miss Moore, with a countenance
a little flushed and bent, evidently
endeavouring to suppress a titter, touched
his elbow, and said in a low voice, —

For mercy, look over."

He glanced across the table, and met the
eyes of Whitmore rivetted upon him, with
an expression of such ludicrous intensity
as made him inclined to laugh outright,

but he restrained himself, and observed to
Miss Moore, —

'' Such a droll expression ! what can bethe
matter with him ? ' '

"I think," replied the lady, still
labouring to suppress the laughter that
was struggling for vent, " I think that he
is calculating the importance and influence
of landed property."

Herbert Granville smiled ; and after a
few seconds observed, —

** Isn't he a worshipper of yours ? "

'' Oh dear, yes," was the reply, " a most
indefatigable one ; can't you see how woebegone
he looks ; he is dying for the
opportunity of investing me with the
splendour of his lofty attributes of power
and genius."

''Oh, I know," rejoined Herbert, "his
power of wealth, and genius for intrigue
form his constant boast. I fear I am in
danger, and, perhaps," looking into
Fanny's eyes with a meaning smile, '' I am
not quite safe either. The influence of
parents and friends is sometimes a dangerous
impediment in the domain of love.

But jet, I suppose sou won't permit me
to despair ? "

Take care of yourself," whispered
Fanny, " the fleetest hound, as papa says,
is not always first in at the death."

Mr. Whitmore, in the meantime, had
directed his attention to Miss Credan, who
appeared quite enchained with his conversation.


I say, Whitmore," exclaimed Sir
Michael, " how is that field of turnips of
yours promising."

Oh, 'tis cracJco, I tell you, Sir Michael.
Every one of 'em as big as your head, and
a stone to the yard. I know how to
handle the acres ; maybe, I shall make a
round two hundred out of that field, besides
what shall go to the farm-yard."

'' Ha ! ha ! " exclaimed the baronet, '' if
any man can do it, I wager you're that
man. You always keep a close eye on the
profits, Whitmore— not the prophets of the
Lord, though, ha ! ha ! ha ! "

The other gentlemen joined in the laugh,
and so did the ladies except Mrs. Moore,
who looked a little ruffled. Mr. Yfhitmore

grinned, and plunged into the plate before
him.

'' I am glad to perceive that the general
crop is good this year," observed the Rev.
Mr. GriofQfer, the Protestant rector.

Impossible for it to be better," said
Mr. Moore, '' except, perhaps, the hay
crop, which is not so Iicslyj as it might
be : that's owing to the early drought."

I venture to say now," interposed
Sir Michael, *' that Mr. Whitmore's hay
crop was more than an average this
year."

Mr. Whitmore, who was at this time
engaged with the leg of a turkey and with
the eloquence of Miss Credan, turned round,
without, however, relinquishing the bone ;
in doing so, his elbow came in contact
with his wine-glass, the contents of which
dropped into the dress of the lady. Thus,
in replying to the observation o£ Sir
Michael, and stammering out an apology
at the same time, for the accident of the
wine-glass, a strange confusion of ideas
flowed from him.

Oh, yes, very good — down — crack

marshy soil — all wet, Miss Credan — excuse
— the dry weather — 'twas a blunder
in the season, only served — your dress
at the right time — to make it all right,
Sir Michael, with my crop, — Miss Credan,
pardon me."

Miss Carey, the pleasure of wine ? "
said Mr. Moore, bowing to that lady.

Mr. "Whitmore hearing the word wine,
and coupling it with the accident, cried
out, '' Only an accident, Mr. Moore ; the
glass turned, Miss Credan got a little on
her dress."

The ladies smiled. Mr. Moore now
directing his conversation to the Rev. Dr.
Markham, the Catholic veriest, observed
that a great change for the better was
latterly apparent upon the face of the
country, the tillage was greatly improved,
and the people seemed more alive to the
advantage of a rotation of crops. The
Rev. Dr. concurred in the remarks of Mr.
Moore, and said that Ireland needed repose
from disturbing influences ; if the people
were more impressed with the necessity
of steady industry and self-reliance the

country could not fail to advance in prosperity
and peace.

"No doubt of it, no doubt of it," observed
Sir Michael, ''I never could agree
in the-wisdom of this everlasting agitation
which has prevailed throughout the country
so long. It is calculated to unsettle the
minds of the people, and to turn them from
the pursuits of honest and useful industry.
I never myself objected to the justice and
reasonableness of the demand for Catholic
emancipation, as urged by O'Connel; in
fact, it was always to me a matter of surprise
how so reasonable a measure could
have been withheld so long, but this
grievance being removed, I don't see why
the country should be still kept seething
in the whirlpool of agitation."

'' Your views are quite in accordance
with my own on that point. Sir Michael,"
observed Dr. Markham ; '' persistent agitation
upon subjects of questionable importance
is attended, and must ever be
attended with injurious results to the
morals and social habits of the people."

If every one was of my mind," interposed

Mr. Whitmore, " I know low all
agitators should be served."

'' How, Whitmore ?" asked Mr. Moore.

How ! why, the should be hanged at
every tree and housetop throughout the
country where they dared to show their
noses. That's my receipt for the cure of
agitation."

A general laugh followed this shrewd
observation.

'' I must say," observed the Eev. Dr.
Markham, '^ that your remedy has at least
the merit of simplicity ; but I question
whether it is exactly in accordance with
the spirit of the British constitution."

"Oh," observed Sir Michael, "Mr.
Whitmore generally goes by the spirit of
his own constitution, and allows the British
one to take care of itself ."

The cloth having been removed, Mr.
Moore asked the gentlemen to fill their
glasses. He then proposed to them the
health of the king, and in doing so, said
that he admired the Sovereign who now
sat upon the British throne on account of
his many virtues and exalted qualities.

VOL. I. N

He was a Sovereign who governed in the
spirit of even-handed justice to all ; and
no matter how men might differ in their
opinions as to this or that measure — no
matter what political party might hold
the reins for the time being, he maintained
that the Sovereign, whose principles and
actions showed him to be moved only by
one consideration, that is, the general
welfare and happiness of his people, was
entitled to the respect and support of every
honourable man. He now asked them to
drink health and long life to His Majesty
the King. The whole company rose, and
the toast was received with enthusiasm.

After the cheering had subsided, Mr.
Whitmore rose. He exhibited considerable
uncertainty in his appearance and
bearing, his hands were moving up and
down in his trousers' pockets, his lower
lip hung, while the right corner of his
mouth was slightly curled ; his eyes, which
were misty, wandered slowly up and down
the table as if in search of admiration, and
his head kept pace with their movement.
After a preliminary cough or two, he

opened by observing, that lie was much
pleased with the loyalty shown by the
toast, and then continued, —

** I like all men to show their true
colours, cracJi'oif I don't — the loyal man who
never flinches from his post, as well as
the man whose heart is opposed to our
king and constitution, no matter what his
tongue may utter. That's me, straight
up, and straight down — no mistake in me.
And I maintain that it is only the landed
interest that's loyal in this country. There
are men who have no pretensions — who
can have no pretensions to loyalty " (here
his eyes rolled in their misty orbits and
rested upon Herbert Grranville) ; "to such
men, I say, show yourselves in your true
colours, and don't be hiding in the dark."
(Herbert here flashed a look at the speaker,
a look of mingled sarcasm, contempt, and
ridicule). " I will commence to show the
points of view in which I consider the
question of loyalty."

The ladies rose to retire ; some of the
gentlemen also rose to see them out, and the
orator being left without an audience.

looked for a moment considerably bewildered;
lie then, after looking slowly, and
very apislily around him, fixed his eyes on a
decanter and filled himself a glass of wine.
Lifting it to his lips, he said, " Here's to all
real loyal men, and time hlues,^^ and he swallowed
the libation. Then resuming his seat,
he leant back and commenced a low, scarcely
audible whistle, to which he kept time with
his large purple hands upon the table.
The gentlemen resumed their seats, and
commenced a running conversation upon
various topics.

At length Mr. Moore rose, and said that
he desired to propose a toast. The toast
he wished to give them, and he felt great
pleasure in proposing it, was the health of
his worthy friend. Sir Michael Carey.

** I need not," he continued, '' dwell
at any length on the merits of that gentleman
in the presence of those who know
him as well as you do. As a landed proprietor
he stands forth an encouraging-example
to us all, as respects those various
duties which we owe to our dependents
and tenantry, as well as to the interests

of the country at large (hear,
hear). He is one whom we are always
delighted to meet in the social circle, for
his manners and bearing shed a lustre upon
the festive board. And whether at sessions,
or county meetings, or in the jury-room,
or on the public platform, he is
equally worthy of imitation by all who have
the peace and prosperity of the country at
heart."

The toast was drunk with enthusiasm ;
all shouting out in unison the name of Sir
Michael Carey.

That gentleman then rose to return
thanks. He said, '' Gentlemen, I cannot
sufficiently express the gratification which
I feel from the compliment which has been
paid me by my venerable friend and neighbour,
our worthy host, and also by you, gentlemen,
in the hearty manner in which you
have received his kind, and I must say flattering
expression of sentiment towards me.
I have always endeavoured, it is true, to discharge,
as far as my ability has enabled me,
the duties which I owe to the various interests
with which I am directly or indirectly connected

; but I fear that I Lave fallen short
of the full accomplishment of my desires
in that respect. However, we must all
aim at the best, and strive to fulfil, according
to our various abilities and opportunities,
the offices which society and the country
at large demand at our hands. Now,
gentlemen, I shall invite you to join me in a
toast which I am sure I need only mention
in order to call forth your cordial approval.
I give you, without a word of preface —
for the toast will speak for itself — I give
you the health, prosperity, and long and
happy life of our host, Mr. Moore."

All rose to their legs, and the name of
Mr. Moore rang along the ceiling, with
three times three, and again, and again.

Ere the echo of the last cheer had died
away, Mr. "Whitmore, who had been all
this time leaning back in his chair and
surveying the ceiling, except when he rose
to join in the toasts, gathered himself up,
with an appearance of vigorous importance,
clenching his thick lips, and swelling out
his eyes, and after a muddled glance to the
head of the table, rose, and said,^^

Mr. Moore, and gentlemen — I mean,
landed proprietors of the county — such
are the men I mean to address, for they
are the real loyal men and true blues, I
don't care one crack for any other
man, for I am straight up and straight
down."

Rather doubtful," interrupted Sir
Michael, laughing.

"I repeat it," resumed Mr. "Whitmore.

Ob, never mind repeating it," interrupted
Mr. Moore, rising; which action
was simultaneously followed by the other
gentlemen, and all proceeded to the 
to join the ladies. Mr. Whitmore
sat down, yawned, and filling himself
another glass, drank to the health of the
"real loyal, and the true blues. ^^ Then,
looking moodily around, he got up, and
strolled into the drawing-room.

The ladies occupied themselves by turn
at the piano, playing some of those exquisite
Irish airs, which Moore has so happily
clothed in English dress ; while Harry
Moore was playfully assuring them of the
relationship existing between himself and

the poet, more particularly in the aesthetic
sense, representing himself as being sometimes
carried away by an extraordinary
flow of inspiration, which raised him to
the loftiest region of songs.

In the meantime, Sir Michael Carey and
the E-ey. Dr. Markham were discussing
topics of political interest as they sat half
reclining on a couch in a distant corner of
the room.

I cannot," observed Sir Michael,
agree in the propriety, or indeed in the
ultimate utility of O'Connel's movements.
As a Catholic I have always felt that our
disabilities — those political and religious
disabilities — under which we have so long
suffered, should be removed ; they were not
calculated to subserve any useful purpose
that I could ever see, but on the contrary
they tended to weaken the empire by
stimulating to periodical convulsions, and
engendering bad feeling. Now, however,
we have nothing to complain of in this
respect. The last link, I may say, in the
chain of bondage is broken by the Emancipation
Act, and therefore, there should

be a cessation of that agitation and turmoil
which, however excusable or even justifiable
under former circumstances, can
serve no useful purpose at the present
moment. I must confess I cannot understand
the wisdom of attempting to repeal
the Act of Union. I think, and I
have ever entertained the opinion, that a
return to the old state of things would not
be for the better. A united Parliament is
better for these islands than a political
system of disjointed action."

It is not at all very clear," said Dr.
Markham, "that a repeal of the Union
would be attended with all the blessings
that its advocates foreshadow. Possibly
it would entail greater evils than those weare
now labouring under. In the present
state of the world a consolidation of empire
would appear to be the consummation to
which statesmen and politicians should
direct their efforts. A divided family is as
much, exposed to evil fortune in a political,
as in the domestic sense. Their interests
are made to flow in contrary channels, and
weakness and exposure to danger from

within and from without must necessarily
follow. At the same time the British
Government does not appear to regard us
in the light of an integral portion of the
empire, at least the laws are so framed as
to justify this view of the case. I speak
now altogether with reference to the religious
question. That England being
Protestant, should be compelled by law to
support her own religious establishment is
a matter which may or may not be considered
wise or judicious, according to the
predominant opinion of Englishmen ; but
that Ireland, being Catholic, should be
forced, under the operation of law, to
maintain a religious establishment not her
own, admits of no justification in argument.
If, therefore, a repeal of the Union would
tend to the removal of this manifest injustice,
it would unquestionably be productive
of at least one good result; a
result too not alone beneficial to this
portion of the empire, but also to the
whole, by the kindly feeling which would
thereby be made to supplant the existing
rancour. But would this consequence

necessarily flow from a repeal of the Act
of Union ? I doubt it myself, I am sorry
to say, and I have more than one reason
for entertaining such doubt. However, if
this anomaly regarding the Church Establishment
could be removed by British
legislation, apart from the repeal of the
Union, I should much prefer it. It is
certainly a matter for congratulation that
those unhappy restrictions and disabilities
which have so long stamped their degrading
marks upon us, have been at length removed.
And although it is pretty generally
believed that no important advantages
will accrue to our country from this
measure of emancipation, yet it must be
confessed that its spirit and essence
breathes of such advantages: they may not
be brought into view at once ; they may be
obscured by imprudent action or by injudicious
manipulation for a time ; but I
think that ultimately they must evolve
themselves as inseparable and inherent
results, contained in the principle of the
measure. There is one subject, however,
which, in my mind, overtops all others in

its bearing upon the material and social
advancement of this portion of the empire.
I mean that of the relation subsisting between
the owners and occupiers of the Irish
soil. This is a subject which should command
the attention of British statesmen beyond
any other that relates to this country.
Ireland can never advance in any department
of national (if I may use the word)
prosperity as long as the present anomaly,
for it is an anomaly, involved in the tenure
and use of the soil is permitted to
continue."

I do not at all disagree with you on that
point," said Sir Michael, " but a repeal of
the Union would not, in my opinion, effect
any good in that way. The British Parliament
ought to be able, and, doubtless, is
able to provide the remedy necessary to the
removal of this evil. I have always felt
the importance of this subject ; and I have
always practised as I have preached in this
particular, as you know, doctor."

The doctor smiled his assent, and Sir
Michael continued, —

It is not the sentimental consideration

of not being allowed to let their land
according to the terms which under every
varying combination of circumstances maybe
secured — it is not this the landowners
dread in any change of the law ; their real
apprehension arises from the possibility of
the tenants becoming independent occupiers
of the soil; for in that event — an event
that I think in very many, or rather inmost
instances would unquestionably arise
the political power of the landowners
would decline. There is, indeed, no
question that the existing state of the law
is replete with injury to the solid interests
of this country. In England, it is true, the
occupier of the soil is not favoured by any
special enactment for his protection against
the arbitrary will of the landowner, but
then, in England, unlike to what prevails
in Ireland, there is a substantial public
opinion, which is a law stronger than some
enactments and which bends the English
landowner as with a chord of adamant.
There is no public opinion in Ireland
worth a pinch of snuff. This eternal
meeting and hurrying throughout the

country is not a public opinion. I believe
O'Connel means well — of that I have no
doubt, for I cannot see what object he can
have in meaning otherwise : but it does not
follow from this fact that his conduct and
proceedings are not calculated to do much
injury — and injury of a permanent nature
too. Now that emancipation is carried,
he should cease this turbulent agitation, and
allow rational scope and play to the new
political system. If this senseless movement
for a repeal of the Union should goon,
the fruits of emancipation will assuredly
be lost, for the representation of
Ireland will be thrown into the hands of
half-educated and needy men, which can
have no other issue than a certain disappointment
to the hopes of the country.
Such men can have no possible weight in
the British House of Commons ; and I am
sure, doctor, you will agree with me when
I say that the only weight they desire to
have is that of rubbish in turnings a scale
they will vote with the Minister for the
promise of some paltry office, and then their
Constituencies will be either forced by

bribery and intimidation to retain their
precious services, or to elect others not one
whit better than them. That is what I foresee
as the likely result of this swaggering,
speech making system of agitation
which is overspreading the country like a
miasma,'^

At this moment the Eev. Mr. Trigger
and Herbert Granville crossed over from
another corner of the room, and joined
Sir Michael and Dr. Markham.

"We are just talking of O'Connel's
meetings and agitation, Mr. Grigger,"
observed Sir Michael, turning round on
the couch, and addressing that reverend
gentleman ; " I am saying to Dr. Markham
that they can be productive of little or no
good."

"Why that is the very subject that
myself and my young friend here, Mr.
Granville, have been discussing since we
came into the room. My young friend
thinks that agitation when wisely directed
is beneficial ; and in that I agree with him,
but wee differ as to the wise direction of
the present agitation. In fact, my opinion

is that O'Connel means a revolution — in
plain terms, lie desires, as I believe, to
throw open the door to robbery, plunder,
and bloodshed. What is your opinion,
Dr. Markham?"

Oh, Mr. Grigger," replied the doctor,
smiling, "I do not at all think as you do ; on
the contrary, I believe that O'Connel is as
much averse to revolution, that is, to a
physical and blood-stained revolution, as
you and I are. At the same time I do not
see that his mode of proceeding, his promiscuous
and irregular gatherings of the
labouring and dissatisfied classes, is calculated
to effect any good. Quite the
contrary. Those classes have no interest
in the question of whether or not the Act
of Union ought to be repealed, for I really
believe that if it was repealed tomorrow,
no substantial good would follow to them
from such repeal. At least, Ireland is not
prepared at the present moment — and God
only knows when her time of preparedness
is to arrive — to enter upon a career of
self-government. Well, whenever that
time comes, those who shall then live,

will use it, I hope, for the national
benefit."

'' I have been endeavouring," observed
Herbert Granville, with a playful grace,
to convince Mr. Trigger of the advantages
of self-rule or home administration ;
but he will not view the matter in the
same light with me."

As Herbert was proceeding, Mr. Whit-more,
or Joe Whitmore, as he was familiarly
called, came up from the direction of the
ladies ; and catching the last words of the
speaker, interrupted him by saying, —

Nor do I either see it in the same light ;
nor does any gentleman of property see
it either. Crack ! it would be a pretty
thing if we did."

Sir Michael, looking up with a rather
comic expression of countenance, said, —

"Why, Joe, that property of yours
hangs like a mill-stone around your neck ;
it won't strangle you though — it has been
fairly got — ha! ha! ha!" and the
baronet laughed heartily, the more so when
he saw Joe protruding his chest, and
eyeing his own person with evident self-vol.

].

complacency. Here Sir Micliael rose, and
accompanied by Dr. Markham and Herbert
approached the ladies, who were pressing
Miss Moore to sing. Sir Micliael backed
them in their request ; but still she
manifested an unwillingness to comply.
As they continued their request, she
sought Herbert's eye, and immediately
rising she approached the piano, and
sang an air of exquisite pathos and
melody, in a voice singularly sweet and
tender.

How sweet is the light of the morning
When May decks the meadows with flowers !
How sweet is the woodbine adorning
The foliage of bright Summer bowers !
But sweeter to me is the beaming
The eyes of Affection impart,
When gently it touches, bright-streaming,
The answering chords of my heart.

How sweet is the voice of the nightingale

Tuning her song in the grove !

How sweet are the echoes of glen and dale

Muttering the accents of love !

But sweeter to me are the soft words
From the lips of Affection that roll, —
And sweeter their touch on the light chords
That thrill 'mid the depths of my soul."

Having concluded the song, lie rose
from the piano, and walked towards
another part of the room with her aunt,
Mrs. Credan, who had motioned her to
follow her ; while Miss Cares, at the request
of Mr. Moore, whose solicitation
was supported by the Eev. Dr. Markham
and the Rev. Mr. Grigger, and others present,
sat to the piano, and commenced one
of Moore's melodies.

"Xow, my dear Fanny," said Mrs.
Credan, addressing Miss Moore, when they
were alone and unobserved : '* now, my
dear Fanny, I do not think that you are
acting properly — I mean, that you are not
doing exactly the right thing in behaving
so coolly towards Mr. Whitmore this
evening. I fear he has observed something
— that is, I fear he suspects that you
are rather attentive to that young man,
Granville. Of course, I know that you
are merely kind to him, poor young man,
on account of his misfortunes, and those
of his family; and that is a praiseworthy
feeling, for we should always avoid wounding
the feelings of the unfortunate : but


then there is a medium, you know, a
certain point beyond which we shouldn't
go even in our kindness and charitable
intentions ; because we are liable in such
cases to offend those of our own rank,
or circumstances, or — you know what 1
mean. There is Mr. Whitmore, who is so
much attached to you, and who, of course,
expects your undivided attention, that is,
with a due regard to a proper observance
of the rules of politeness towards others ;
he has evidently noticed something this
evening. You haven't paid him that
attention which you ought. Mr. Granville
may be well enough in his way ; but
that's all. He can have no pretensions to
aspire to your hand ; — and see, my dear,
you should never by word or act encourage
him to anything so foolish. Now, let me
beg of you to go over to Mr. Whitmore,
and let him understand that your feelings
are with him : show him that nothing can
influence you to place your happiness out
of his keeping."

Here Miss Moore burst into a fit of
laughter; after which she said, still

agitated by the emotions of ridicule excited
by ber aunt's observations, —

What in the world, my dear aunt,
makes you imagine that I entertain any
feeling for Mr. AYhitmore, beyond that of
the merest neighbourly regard ? Surely,
you don't suppose that I am smitten by
him, or that my heart is carried captive by
the force of his all conquering charms ? "
and here again she gave vent to her feelings
of merriment.

Mrs. Credan looked very solemn; she
crossed her arms over her bosom, pressed
her lips, and looked inquiringly into the
eyes of her niece. She then said, —

Fanny, listen to me now : I expected
more deference to my opinions from you
than you seem willing to give them. I
have always felt an interest in you, and I
have made it a point to study the means of
promoting your welfare. You are called
after me. Fanny is a Credan family name ;
it does not belong to the Moores. It came
do^v^n to our family through the great
O'Phouls, who were descended from the
clan Mayflower; and it has passed on

century after century, I don't know low
many indeed, but they are very many ; I
say it has passed on century after century,
through the various branches of our race,
and now you and I share it between us as
the latest representatives of the family. I
say, then, you shouldn't forget this ; and
being called after me you have a right to
attend to what I design for your welfare.
Your mother, I need scarcely say, is
altogether of my mind with regard to Mr.
"Whitmore; she thinks with me that the
families of the county, the families, I mean,
who are possessed of property — landed
proprietors — these should always form
matrimonial alliances, and by that means
uphold their stations and respectability.
You must know, my dear, that people of
broken fortunes should be avoided — I mean,
of course, in the way of alliances — God
forbid I should mean anything else. To
be sure, the Whitmores are not of the old
Irish stock, but then they hold a large
property; it may not be a property of
ancient inheritance, of course it is not, but
then, we mustn't always look for perfection,

because in these times of change and
adversity it is not easily found. Perfection
is a thing not easily found. So now, you
must, my dear, think better of this ; and
do not trifle with your happiness. Mr.
Whitmore may not be possessed of all
those qualities which attract the mind, but
he has personal attractions : he is a good-looking
young man, his education, it is
true, hasn't been of a high order, but he
can read and write well ; in fact, his penmanship
is splendid, nothing can be more
so ; and I have heard that he is a good
accountant — that he can manage figures
well, that is, in a plain way."

Miss Moore, who for the last five
minutes was using every possible exertion
to appear grave and attentive to her aunt's
admonitions, could no longer restrain
herself. She burst out into a ringing peal
of laughter, which attracted the audience
at the piano, some of whom turned round
to inquire the cause of the amusement,
when they saw Miss Moore with her arms
around the neck of Mrs. Credan, playfully
caressing her, as though she wished to

propitiate lier offended dignity ; for the
latter lady appeared drawn up at her full
height, wearing a look of the most austere
gravity, made still more intense by a
slight contraction of her brows and lips.

Sir Michael Carey and Dr. Markham
immediately joined the niece and aunt ; Sir
Michael informing them, with apparent
glee, that the company were about to retire
to the Hall to see a dance. There was
then a simultaneous exit from the ,
and the hall soon presented a
scene of excitement.

Denny Mullins, the piper, was there in
all his glory, doing the most ample justice
to that ancient and memorable melody
the " Colin." His eyes were half-closed
and directed to the ceiling, while bis underlip
and jaw moved with a ti-emulous
emotion to the quavering cadence of the
song. The chanter now rose and fell
upon his knee with quick and jerky precision,
and now with an easy slow motion
which permitted the full and swelling
egress of the melody. Nelly Corcoran
was there, with her granddaughter, Ninny

Vice, in the immediate vicinity of Denny.
The captain sat on a table at the lower
extremity of the hall, entertaining the fat
steward with anecdotes of his travels.
Paddy Larkin was in one corner, seated on
a bench, with Anty Dreelin by his side,
into whose ear he was breathing, not soft
whisperings of love, we are sorry to say,
but black designs of treason. There were
also present, Ned Doolan and Bill Clearyy,
Peggy Cummins and Judy Casey, and,
though last not least, the loijal and true
Peter Mackey, from the Cross, publican
and general grocer.

These were the notabilities : others were
there whose names we do not think it
necessary to record.

Upon the entrance of the ladies and
gentlemen into the hall, the piper's chanter
became mute, and a general silence ensued ;
but only for a second or two, for then all
rose to their feet, the captain leading, and
gave three most vociferous cheers for the
ladies and gentlemen.

Mr. Moore and the other gentlemen, as
also the ladies, acknowledged the compliment

thus paid them, by bowing and
smiling all round. After a little time all
had again resumed their places ; and
Denny commenced to play '' The Wedding
of Balljmafad." This having been concluded,
Mr. Moore requested the captain
to favour the company by dancing a
hornpipe. The captain cheerfully complied,
and Denny struck up a tune of
exquisite measure and modulation, to
which the captain responded with a spring
and bound, after which he flung himself
into full accord with the jerking roll of
the melody. He was clapped and cheered,
and after a display of remarkable dexterity,
not unmixed with graceful action, which
continued for about ten minutes, he concluded
by bounding into the air, striking
his heels together while thus raised, and
then coming to the floor with his feet at
rio'ht angeles.

Sir Michael Carey then taking Miss
Moore by the hand, asked for a waltz.
Denny played, and the baronet and his
partner circled round in gay and graceful
movement to the music. Other gentlemen,

taking partners, followed the example thus
set them, and the hall became redolent of
light-hearted gaiety.

There was one there, however, who did
not seem to enter into the excitement of
the scene. This was Mr. AVhitmore, who,
standing by the chimney-place, appeared
somewhat absorbed in reflection. He
threw his eyes occasionally in the direction
of the baronet and his partner, and occasionally
in that of Herbert. Granville,
who was engaged in the dance with one of
the baronet's daughters. He then became
engaged in the survey of his own person,
looking at his shoulders, and then at his
breast, and so on, until his glance reached
the toes of his boots, which he turned up a
little and gravely admired. He was thus
occupied when the baronet concluded his
dance, and was advancing towards the
top of the hall with his partner leaning on
his arm. Seeing this, Whitmore stepped
forward and asked Miss Moore to do him
the honour of taking a '' whirl " with him.
She politely declined on the plea of fatigue ;
when he said, with an affected jocularity, —

'' Oh, I suppose you don't consider me
entitled to the honour ; if I were a beggar
without character — a rebel— then I might
succeed. Crack ! haw ! haw ! haw ! "

Miss Moore drew herself up, coloured
slightly, and flashed a look of contempt
into his face, while Sir Michael frowned,
and waved him back with his arm.

Soon afterwards the ladies and gentlemen
retired, and the scene of festivity was
terminated.

CHAPTER VIII.

A Have Consultation— FEMALE DIPLOMACY.

From the observations and bearing of Joe
Whitmore, as given in the preceding
chapter, the reader cannot help perceiving
that he was a man essentially vulgar in
his nature, and addicted to those vices of
manner and conduct which are the necessary
products of such a nature. He was
rude and arrogant, and always on the
watch for an opportunity to obtrude his
loyalty, his property, and his person upon
the notice and attention of his audience.
One would imagine, from the peculiar
phraseology which he sometimes employed,
such as " Real loyal, and true blue," that
he belonged to some fraternity or organization
whose distinctive characteristic was

loyalty to the throne, and opposition to
every sentiment or movement calculated to
disturb or in any way affect the established
order of things. But this would be a
mistake. He was not a member of any
particular society of this sort ; nor indeed
did he really understand the peculiar
obligations of any body of men, no matter
of what shape or form of organization,
then existing in Ireland. He was perfectly
indifferent to their aims and views. All
he knew, or wished to know, on this subject
was, that every man of property should
be opposed to every measure and every
movement that had a tendency to improve
or elevate the condition and status of the
labouring a-nd industrious classes. Anything
that savoured of this was to him
rank rebellion, or a certain indication of a
want of loyalty to the throne.

Not, indeed, that his esprit de corps
went so far as to disturb him when a
member of his own class — that is, a landholder
— became embarrassed or bankrupt.
He rather chuckled at that, for it afforded
him an opportunity of exhibiting his own

superior wisdom and conduct in the
management of bis affairs. But not only
was he undisturbed at a catastrophe of
this kind, but he seemed rather pleased;
and from the moment that such an event
occurred he became suspicious of the unhappy
gentleman who was thus plunged
into ruin, and believed, or seemed to
believe, that he was no longer entitled to
confidence, or even to ordinary courtesy.
Such natures as his can see no merit in
aught but success, and a success, too, in
accordance with the low and sordid views
which they themselves entertain. Success
in science, in art, in literature, in trade, orin
commerce — this they do not, for they
cannot regard as a subject for approval,
much less for admiration, unless it is
accompanied with the one all-important
ingredient — wealth. Wealth, money, property,
is everything to them ; while virtue,
education, manners, social refinement, intellectual
and moral worth, are as nothing,
or worse than nothing.

Mr. Whitmore was a very complete
representative of such natures. He was

the owner of a considerable landed estate,
transmitted to him through this grandfather
and father, and acquired in the first instance
in a way bj no means reputable. But this
mode of acquisition ought not to be
regarded as a stain upon his character,
nor was it. But yet, when a man divests
himself of that humane spirit which loves
to think well and to do well in the interests
of humanity, throughout the diversified
field of human conduct, and when he wraps
himself up in the folds of his concentrated
selfishness, disregarding the wants, the
necessities, the misfortunes, the sufferings
of his fellow-men ; then, indeed, not only
his own vices and crimes, but also those of
his ancestors are arrayed against him by
the indignant voice of injured humanity.

Mr. Whitmore's property, or rather the
source whence it chiefly originated was,
therefore, occasionally remembered to his
disadvantage. He occupied a magnificent
mansion, which stood upon a part of this
property, and which was known by the
high-sounding title of Castle Whitmore.
He lived alone, if we except an old maiden

aunt, who had some small property of her
own, and a cousin, a young man who had
become an orphan at an early age, and
whom he was now supporting. His whole
time was devoted to the general supervision
of the estate, and to the particular management
of a farm which lay within his demesne,
and contiguous to his mansion. His whole
time, did we say ? No ; he occasionally
attended county meetings, assizes, and
quarter sessions, in order to exhibit his
importance in the county, and to frown
down every man who was not '^ real loyal,
and a true blue."

He was, as must be expected, an oppressor
of the poor; that is to say, he had
no consideration for their wants or their
sufferings, and was ever ready to unite in
any measure, act, or proceeding that was
calculated to keep them in helpless bondage.
In short, he had no feeling for them.
But neither had he that fearless or reckless
spirit, which is sometimes, though falsely,
designated courage, which would openly
and defiantly harass and persecute them.
He had none of that. His persecution was

VOL. I. p

retiring and silent, because this selfishness
was intense. He loved himself too much
to walk in the path of danger, and he
hated the poor too much to give silent aid
to their efforts of advancement.

As we have said, he belonged to no
society of any kind, political or religious,
scientific or charitable, except that
he was a Protestant by profession, and frequented
his church. Indeed, his conduct,
in this particular, was extremely edifying.
He dressed well, even to ostentation ; and
he paraded his carriage and pair at the
church door on every Sunday at about
eleven o'clock. There was no failure here.
But we have seen how far his principles as
manifested in his general conduct accorded
with this external demeanour. He did not
belong to an Orange Society, to a Repeal
Association, or to any organization of a
prominent political or religious character.
That would never do. He was both too
good and too bad for that. He wished
only to be a tyrant in his own little way,
and thus to revel in his own individual
greatness. There are many such persons,

both rich and poor ; for it rust be remembered
that the possession of property is
not necessary to constitute either a fool
or a rogue. There are men to be found
and, indeed, they obtrude themselves on
the view every day — who are not encumbered
with a vestige of property of any
kind, but who, nevertheless, exhibit all the
qualities that are essential to the formation
of cruel and heartless tyrants. They
are, too, some of them, possessed of all the
weak, as well as vicious, points of Joe
Whitmore. They are selfish, vain, arrogant,
hypocritical, cowardly. In short,
fools and rogues, as we have said, may or
may not be distinguished by the possession
of property. It is not absolutely necessary
for them ; they can flourish in any soil, in
any climate.

Joe Whitmore, however, was a rich
rogue-fool. Another vice he had inseparable
from his caste. He believed every
woman to whom he turned his attention
should be in love with him ; and in this
respect — indeed the only respect almost in
which he succeeded in producing any
p 2

interest among his acquaintances — lie
sometimes exhibited in this person and
conduct a fund of amusement. But here,
as in everything else connected with him,
the malevolence of his nature prevailed.
He was jealous, suspicious, and mean in
all his lo^s^e-making. If, for instance, a
rival, or one whom he suspected to be a
rival, came in his way, no matter how
near a friend he might be, he would
invariably depreciate him by the invention
— for he descended to invention in
those cases — and the propagation of every
form of falsehood and scandal that appeared
useful or necessary for his purpose. His
manner of address, however, when in company
with a lady, afforded an inexhaustible
supply of ridicule and fun. He rolled
his flabby grey eyes, with what he conceived
to be irresistible effect. He protruded his
big chest, which was adorned with frills
and chains ; he stood firm and erect upon
his thick legs and flat feet, and he laughed
with surpassing glee. He then coughed
slightly, and reddened a little, giving utterance
at the same time to some vulgar express

on — he was wholly incapable of any other
expression — which he regarded as conclusive
evidence of his dexterity and finesse ;
for he would immediately turn round and
admire his person, and then go off into a
fit of the most sublime abstraction. In
this way his love might be said to be
universal ; for he thought no woman beneath
his passing care, as long as she
afforded him an opportunity to display
himself, and to laugh. But of all his conquests
— for he deemed every woman a
conquest who was humorous enough, or
condescending enough, or indifferent
enough to listen to him — there was none
that seemed to touch his heart so much as
Miss Moore. She became his idol. He
worshipped her with all the ardour he was
capable of, and was prepared to forsake
every other shrine, if he were only admitted
within the sanctuary of hers.

Miss Moore was beautiful, accomplished,
and winning. She was endowed both by
nature and education, with a very large
amount of intellectual and moral power.
She was keen and penetrating, yet mild

and sensitive, and she possessed a large
fund of practical good sense. Personal
pretension, a pompous exterior, a glittering
surface, had no attractions for her.
She sought one predominant quality in the
man to whom she could consign her heart,
and that was a noble mind. But this high
predominant quality was wholly wanting
in the character of ]mr. Whitmore.

There was one, however, who did possess
it ; and this one was known to Miss
Moore. Herbert Granville was that man.
And Miss Moore loved Herbert Granville.
It sometimes happens that the jewel of a
noble mind is set in a frame devoid of
attraction, or even repulsive. But in the
present instance, the setting and the jewel
were in keeping. To a lofty mind and
cultivated intellect, Herbert Granville
added a person of the most exquisite
mould, and manly beauty. We have described
him in a former chapter, and shall
not, therefore, linger here for the purpose
of re-introducing him to the reader.

It was scarcely to be wondered at, under
all the circumstances which brought this

bright couple within the same orbit, that
Love's Hight and warmth should have shone
and glowed within the bosoms of both.
Indeed, the wonder would be if it were
otherwise. This, then, being the case, not
only were Whitmore's attentions to Miss
Moore irksome and repulsive to her, they
were even disgusting. It is true, she
sometimes was compelled to endure them,
for the mere sake of politeness, and in
deference to the feelings and opinions of
her family. But on such occasions the
revulsion of feeling she was forced to
undergo operated upon her in such a
manner as to cause her to shudder at the
very mention of his name.

Such then was the state of affairs, and
such the relations existing between these
three several parties at the time of which
we are speaking. Whitmore hated Granville
; but Granville only despised Whit-more.
The latter was regarded by Miss
Moore with a feeling of mingled horror and
disgust. The former she loved with the
deepest, sweetest, holiest affection.

It was little wonder that a refined and

sensitive nature such as that of Miss
Moore's should recoil from contact with,
one whose mind and soul were filled with
grovelling ideas, and low, vicious propensities,
unrelieved by a single impulse of noble
aspiration.

To give an idea of the excessive viciousness
and hopeless baseness of his nature
and character, we need only refer to a
visit which he had recently made to
Brookfield Hall. The family, with the
exception of Miss Moore, were absent. In
all probability he was aware of this circumstance;
for, to crown his other
meanness, he was addicted to that of
prying into the incoming and outgoings
of every family in the country, high and low,
to whom he was permitted any access —
even their slightest movements or actions,
their conversations, their visitors, their
dress, furniture ; everything round and
about them became to him subjects of
gossip. It was, therefore, most probable
that on the day of his visit to which we refer,
he was aware of the absence of Mr. Moore
and family, with the exception of Miss

Moore; and that, acting in the spirit of
his low and gross nature, he availed himself
of the opportunity thus open to him,
to thrust himself into that lady's presence,
and to insult her by indulging in observations
at once vulgar, vicious, and base.

When he called, the servant showed him
into the drawing-room ; and shortly after
Miss Moore came in. She received him
with courteous politeness, and ordered him
some cake and wine, which he took with
greedy eagerness, observing that he had
had a long walk over the hills, and therefore
felt a need of some refreshing beverage.
He lost no time, however, in turning the
conversation to Herbert Granville, whom
he described as a man unworthy the attention,
much less the affection, of any lady
who regarded her own character. His
faults, and vices, and crimes were set forth
in most repulsive colouring ; Whitmore,
doubtless, drawing Herbert's character
from the lineaments of his own. He possessed
no redeeming quality in the dark
and turbid imagination of his slanderer.
He was mean, unfeeling, unjust, dishonest.

He was a deceiver, a rebel, and a beggar.
Such was the strain of verification in which
he proceeded whilst he was filling glass
after glass of wine, and smacking his lips
in recognition of the enjoyment which the
wine and the occasion afforded him. He
interspersed his observations upon Herbert
Granville, which were straggling, unconnected,
and wild — the substance of which
only we have given, for it would be impossible
to transcribe his stuttering incoherencies
word by word — he interspersed those
observations with insinuations to Miss
Moore, touching her feelings, her intentions
and prospects in relation to Herbert, and
also in reference to his own claims upon
her attention.

'' Now," he went on to say, '' you see.
Miss Moore, that a man of position and
circumstance is not to be overlooked — eh,
now ? Hem ! crack ! I think a lady in
your position should not connect yourself
with a fellow of no character. Who
is Granville, I should like to know ?
eh ? crack ! No girl would marry him ;
no one would trust him ; hem ! eh ?

crack ! You don't know bim, Miss
Moore. I wonder your father allows him
to his house. Besides, he is a beggar ; he
hasn't a blanket to cover him, hem ! eh ?
crack ! You don't know him. Miss Moore ;
do you know him, eh ? I do, though. I
can't bear him, hem ! he is such a low
villain — crack ! I know him."

It is not to be supposed that Miss Moore
remained silent throughout this degrading
exhibition ; or that she did not show byword
and look her displeasure and indignation
at such base and infamous language
directed against the man whom she loved,
and whose character she knew to be noble
and honourable. By no means : she was
not silent. It is true, she did not immediately
rise, and order the ruffian from her
presence ; this she did not do for two
reasons, first, because she despised him ;
and second, because she was unwilling to
stain Herbert's name by mixing it up in
anything like a quarrel with a man so
entirely beneath him. But she, by her
looks, and by her abrupt expressions of
impatience and dissatisfaction, showed

him as forcibly as it was possible to convey
it, that she not only dissented from
every vile expression uttered against Herbert,
but that she also felt the utmost
repugnance for the man who was reviling
him.

I don't believe it," she would say ;
indeed, I know it is not true. Mr.
Granville is a gentleman. He has a
noble mind, ^o gentleman could speak
disparagingly of him. He knows who
deserves his contempt. A coward only
could slander Mr. Granville. No gentleman,
or man of character, could or would
dare do it. Baseness is tolerated, merely
on account of its baseness. 'No high-minded
man would stain his fingers with
it or with its embodiment'

Thus she would go on with short, caustic
withering expressions, accompanied with
looks of the most bitter sarcasm. But
they were lost on Joe Whitmore ; the low
nature which enabled him to revile and
slander an absent gentleman to the woman
who loved him, and whom he loved, was
incapable of perceiving the merited scorn

wliicli fell from lier eyes and lips as lie
stammered out his slanders.

At length, however, finding that nothing
she had said or looked had the effect of
stopping the foul and broken current of
his base and slanderous observations, she
rose from her seat, and walking towards
the fireplace with indignation mantling
upon her countenance she jerked the bell-pull,
and then walked towards the door,
where meeting the servant, she said,
addressing him, and at the same moment
pointing her finger towards Whitmore, —

Show that man out of the house ; and
tell him never again to dare obtrude himself
upon my presence."

She then walked away ; and hastening
to the sanctuary of her bedroom, she there
gave vent to her injured feelings in a
copious flood of burning tears.

Whitmore, notwithstanding his stolid
nature, and the inherent vileness of his
character, looked abashed beneath the
overwhelming scorn, and crushing rebuke
which he thus received ; but he soon recovered
himself, and rising with a jerk, he

shook himself, poured out another glass of
wine, drank it off at a snap, and strutted
towards the door, muttering some incoherent
words between his teeth, among which
the only ones that were audible were,
*' Hem ! yes ! yes ! crack ! Eh ? ha ! ay,
crack ! "

On the morning of the day succeeding
that of the dinner-party there sat in the
drawing-room of Brookfield Hall, between
the hours of eleven and twelve o'clock, the
two sisters, Mrs. Moore and Mrs. Credan,
in earnest conversation touching the
general interests of the two families, the
Moores and Cretan, but in special reference
to those of the eldest daughter of the
house of Moore. In a word, Miss Fanny
Moore was the central topic of their
deliberation.

"And look at her imperious behaviour the
other day," Mrs. Moore was observing in
response to some remark of Mrs. Credan's,
'' how unbecoming in her, and how detrimental
to her own prospects in life. I
have again and again, my dear Fanny,
pointed out to her the necessity of treating

Mr. "Wliitmore with respect ; but Her
answer to me has always been, that she
can't bear him further than as a source of
amusement. Yes, upon my honour,
nothing less. She likes him as a butt, if
you please, but nothing more. What do
you think of such conduct from a girl, too,
of little more than seventeen years ? "

"Well, my dear Felicia," replied Mrs.
Credan, " you cannot put an old head on
young shoulders. Perhaps we were not
very competent ourselves, at her age, to
see what was precisely correct and good
for us in our intercourse with the gentlemen
of our time. I am sure, I don't
forget how I treated Barton — you know
chubby Charley of Carnage ? — when he was
paying his devoirs to me. How 1 used to
be amused with his apish ways, and his
absurdities of manner ; but I never could
love him, oh, dear ! oh, dear ! that was
quite out of the question. And yet, he
was a man that occupied, you know, a good
position, and owned a good estate. But I
never could love him. That was foolish
of course ; but you know, girls will dream

of such nonsense. Sarah Clapper flew at
him. Oh, dear ! I can never forget that
gh^L She was so gay, so buoyant, and so
frivolous; she didn't love him; in fact, she
never coidd love anybody I think ; that is,
she was, I don't say above, but beneath that
nonsense. For you know that there are
young persons who are, or at least seem to
be unsuited, from some cause or other, to
take part in those affairs of the heart, — in
those tender weaknesses of youth. Of
course, love is a weakness ; but young
people are sometimes caught by it ; and in
that way miss their chances in life. A
greater fool you couldn't meet than chubby
Charley of Carnage, he was so finely
attired, and so charmed with himself, and
so laurjliy and talhj. Oh, dear ! oh, dear !
how amused we used to be with his absurdities
and meanness. And when Sarah
Clapper married him, we all said there
couldn't possibly be a more suitable match
a brace of silly mean fools. Well, but he
was a good match, after all ; that is, fora
person like her. He had a good estate,
you see; that's the point. Of course

people laughed at them ; and it is well for
respectable and sensible people to have
such persons to amuse them. The world
would be dull indeed, mj dear, i£ we hadn't
some such fools. But my opinion with
respect to Fanny is this : she can't be
brought to love Mr. Whitmore, that's impossible
; neither can she be brought to
marry him, at least, at present ; that is, as
long as Herbert Granville is living amongst
us. But he is leaving this country, I
believe : I know it, in fact ; for I have had
it from a good source, that is, Dr. Markham.
"Well, all we have to do in the meantime
is to check on one side, and encourage on
the other. You understand, my dear.
Check the intercourse between Herbert and
herself as much as possible, without giving
a shock ; and encourage Whitmore to hope ;
in fact, let him understand all is right.
You see that move, my dear Felicia? "

But the advantages of property and
position," observed Mrs. Moore, " are so
great in the case of Mr. Whitmore, that I
cannot endure the idea of her hesitating
at all about marrying him. Love, indeed !

VOL. I. Q

What has she to do with such nonsense?
Oh, yes, to be sure, that fellow Herbert is
so poetical and romantic, and has that elegance
of manner that silly girls talk so
about ; I really am at a loss to express the
abhorrence I feel when I think of such
ridiculous childishness. I wonder what
can all that sort of thing avail those who
are thoughtless and foolish enough to be
carried away with it ; without perhaps
means sufficient to afford them the commonest
necessaries of life ? Upon my
honour, my dear Fanny, I sicken of this
romantic foolery. I do not know but that
Herbert Granville would be a suitable match
for my daughter, if his father's property
had remained with him. His respectability
in other joints of view is quite well
enough ; he is well descended, and well-educated;
and I have nothing to urge
against his personal character ; but, bah !
what is all that, when we know that he is
a beggar ? I have always said to Mr.
Moore, when that young man first began
to frequent this house (he and Harry, of
course, were companions, being schoolfellows

and playmates), and at that time the
Granville family were, or appeared to be
in good circumstances ; but after they had
lost their property I have frequently told
Mr. Moore that his continuing to come to
this house could not tend to any good. I
am sure I have used every reasonable precaution
against encouraging a continuance
of familiarity between our family and the
Granvilles. But Mr. Moore, as is usual
with him whenever I warn him upon any
matter, turned a deaf ear to me, or laughed
at what he called my botheration. Why, to
be sure ! she talks and laughs so about
Mr. Whitmore's vulgar pretensions. Vulgar
pretensions, indeed ! I am sure that
any lady couldn't object to his person, or
his manners either. His education is not
as perfect as it might be, very true ; he is
not very refined or polished, true enough ;
but then he has good sense, and his understanding
is not at all weak. Then again,
she talks of his vanity, his dress, and self-admiration,
and his habit of laughing.
Well, that may be so ; but how are we to
suit ourselves with everything desirable ?
Q 2

We cannot. Of course our families, both
the Moores and Cretan, are unexceptionable,
and entitled to enter into alliance
with any families in the county ; but as
we cannot make everything suit, and secure
that which is best, we must be content with
what may be considered reasonable success.
The Whitmores are a good family enough ;
they are not, to be sure, of ancient lineage ;
and their origin may be, as is said, not
quite sightly ; yet the young man himself
is unobjectionable, and the property is as
fine as any in the county. How many
young ladies in the county would refuse
him, I should like to know ? "

Upon my honour, Felicia, I don't know
about that," replied Mrs. Credan, laughing
; '* if they were like you and me they
would not reject him, I daresay ; but you
must know that 02ir love days are past —
not that I ever allowed love to interfere with
my speculations, any more than yourself.
However, we must act on the principle
that there is such a thing as love."

'* Well, then, let her love him," said
Mrs. Moore.

'' Oh, love doesn't come by volition*
rejoined Mrs. Credan, laughing.

I don't know about that," observed
the other; '' I have known many ladies in
my time who brought themselves to love
those whom they had an interest in
marrying. It may not have been romantic
love — that love that is nursed among
flowers and zephyrs, and feeds upon poetry
and sentiment — but it was a rational love —
a love that looked calmly at consequences,
and kept in view a secure independence.
And that's love enough for any reasonable
creature."

Mrs. Credan again burst into a fit of
laughter, clapping her hands in an ecstasy
of merriment.

'really, Felicia, I cannot help it," she
said ; " you talk so philosophically, as
Mr. Credan expresses it ; I am inclined
to think that you will overdo the thing
you aim at. All that is necessary, in my
mind, at the present moment, is to discountenance
Mr. Granville to a certain extent
— not too much, for fear of a reaction,
but just enough to awaken his pride a

little, and divert this attention into some
other channel. Fanny herself should bea
party to this ; and she could be led into
it by our making her believe that it
would be the surest way to retain his
fidelity to her ; do you understand ? At
the same time, Whitmore should be encouraged,
just moderately only; and in
this Fanny too should be induced to cooperate
by showing her that it would have
the effect of restraining him from his too
ardent love-making. Then if Herbert
should leave the country, as I have no
doubt is his intention, some decided steps
might be taken towards the accomplishment
of our object in the union of Fanny
and Whitmore. Now, that is my plan;
and I hope you will act upon it. Depend
upon it, it's the best that can be thought
of under present circumstances. I wouldn't
go farther, Felicia ; I would not, indeed."

I don't know exactly what to think
of that arrangement," observed Mrs.
Moore ; '' it doesn't appear to me to be
sufficient to meet the urgency of the
case. Love has many devices to elude

the stratagems that may be opposed to it.
Love — out upon the word ; I hate it ! "

Mrs. Credan again fell into a fit of
laughter, while she pressed her hands
u^Don her sides ; and tears rolled down
her cheeks in the intensity of her emotion.
*' I declare, Fanny," resumed Mrs.
Moore, " you seem not to treat the
matter with that seriousness which it
demands ; it is not a subject for laughter
at all. It affects not alone my daughter's
happiness, but the happiness and welfare
of our families. What a thing it would
be indeed to see her married to a romantic,
accomplished beggar : I am quite put out
about it ; I cannot help it."

'well," interrupted Mrs. Credan, ''I
have suggested to you what I suppose to
be the best remedy under the circumstances
; and you do not seem to approve of
it. What then do you propose ? "
"AYliat do Iprojjosef "
'eyes, what do you loroioose ? "
I propose this, that she bo sent to
Mooloch to your house ; and kept thereunder
a certain restraint until such time

as we see that Herbert Granville shall
have left the country ; if he will leave it,
which I doubt ; at least before he accomplishes
his wicked purpose."

'what wicked purpose?" asked Mrs.
Ore dan.

'why," replied Mrs. Moore, "what

else than wicked is his design to marry

my daughter ? She who, if Whitmore

were dead tomorrow, would get any man

in the county Avhose alliance we desired.

That is what I call wicked. I have no

patience with the thing at all. Well,

what I propose is, that she be sent to

Mooloch and kept there until we discover

whether Herbert is going away. If he

should go, then we are safe. But in the

event of his not going we could still keep

her there, until she ceased to have any

thought about him. In the meantime we

could acquaint Mr. Whitmore with her

change of residence, and encourage him to

call as often as he liked. He might be

asked to dinner in the first instance ; and

then a shooting-party might be got up ;

and other plans of this nature might be had

recourse to so as to make his visits come
easy to Lin. In this way, it appears to me,
the thing could be safely done; and all
danger from frequent intercourse with
Herbert, such as could scarcely be prevented
if she remain here, be averted.
Now, what do you think of that, Fanny ? "

Mrs. Credan bent forward on the couch,
and placing the forefinger of her right
hand on her compressed lips, while she
gently stroked her dress with her left hand,
she remained in deep meditation for nearly
a minute ; then rising and pacing the floor
with her hands clasped behind her back,
she commenced to speak thus : —

'* Felicia, I thought that you possessed
some penetration ; at least, that you were
capable of seeing more deeply into matters
than you now appear to be. What is love ?
Let us not deceive ourselves, whatever we
may do in our endeavours to guard Fanny
against any imprudent act. We may beguile
her ; we may persuade her — perhaps
we may — of the vanity of love, of its
deception, its instability, its shadowiness ;
and in this way induce her to abandon any

feeling of this sort that she may entertain
for Herbert Granville. We may be able todo
this, perhaps. But, there is one thing
that we cannot do — we cannot shut our
own eyes to a forgetfulness of that influence,
that power which love possesses over
the human heart. We may now contemn
the passion just as it may seem good to us —
just as it may be our interest to do so ; but
let us not forget that such a passion does
exist in our nature, and that it is one which
cannot be rooted out by the advice of
friends, or by any influence short of death
itself. It may be checked ; it may be prevented
from rushing forward in an impetuous
torrent ; it may even be diverted
from its course ; but dried up, never ! If
Fanny really loves Herbert Granville, she
shall continue to love him as long as his
heart responds to hers — that at least. It
may be longer ; but as it is a passion that
requires to be fed, to be sustained, to be
osborne on an element congenial to itself,
it will last as long as that support is
administered to it. It cannot feed upon
itself, it is true ; it may perish, and must

perish when ifc has nothing to hive on.
But what is the food, what is the element
in which it lives ? Does the object vanish
from the sight ? Is it laid beneath the
green sod ? Suppose it is ; then does love
perish ? No. Place Herbert Granville
beyond the broad Atlantic ; nay, place
him, if you will, in the tomb of his
fathers, and Fanny will still continue to
love him as if he were walking abroad
before her eyes in all the attractions of
his noble mind and manly grace. Let
his love perish though; let his heart
cease to throb in unison with hers ; then
indeed whether he lies beneath the green
sod, or walks above it, her love must
perish, and perhaps her body perish with
it. It is not a necessary consequence that
the life of the body should go out with the
life of love ; but it sometimes happens so.
Now, this being the case — and it is the
case — what can you expect from the
course you propose ? What can you
expect in the way of preventing Fanny
from loving Herbert ? or of coercing her to
love the other, a thing impossible for her

to do ? But you may hope to coerce her
to marry Whitinore without loving him ?
Never ! Behave me, FeHcia, Fanny is
made of different material. She will
never marry the man whom she cannot
love ; and if she loves Herbert Granville,
as I believe she does, she never can love
Joe Whitmore. Sever, never ! I do not
blame her, after all ; she cannot help it. It
is easy for you and me, my dear sister, to
talk coolly and calmly over this matter.
We have never loved, I suppose ; I have
not. How then can we prescribe rules to
those who are under the sway of that
delightful passion; for I can imagine it
delightful, although I have never been
myself, properly speaking, under its influence
? I may have felt the thrill of the
Divinity's presence for a moment, though
I never knelt at his shrine enshrouded in
the full effulgence of his glory. You see,
my dear sister," she continued, smiling, " I
have read some poetry. However, my
advice I have already tendered to you ; and
I do think it is the best to follow at
present. I cannot at all agree with your

view of the matter ; for I think it would
be only affording a greater scope to the
feeling, if it does exist with Fanny, and
annoying her to no purpose."

'' Well, I am sure, I don't know what
to say, or how to act," observed Mrs.
Moore ; '* but I cannot allow my daughter
to be married to a pauper. As for that
love you speak of, I never can bring myself
to believe in it. Look at me ; have I not
been happy since my marriage with George
ever up to the present day ? We have
had our differences of opinion, and our
little annoyances of one kind or other ; but
then I have been quite happy with him ;
but I never married him for love. I could
have married any gentleman at the time,
just as well; I mean, of course, any
gentleman of character and property, and
not deformed or repulsive in any way. I
liked him, just as I would any gentleman
who might have been considered by my
father and family as a desirable match.
That's all."

'' Now, Felicia," broke in Mrs. Credan,
let us not say any more upon this subject

at present. Let us speak to Fanny herself
about it, and hear what she says. She is,
as you know, a very sensible, prudent girl
for her years ; and I am inclined to suppose
that she would not act rashly in this
matter any more than in any other. Let
us hear her, at any rate."

Very well," said Mrs. Moore, " I shall
have her here in a few minutes."

While we are waiting for Fanny, to hear
what she has to say in answer to any interrogatories
that may be put to her by her
mother and aunt, we may as well introduce
these two ladies more formally to the
reader. They were the daughters of
Geoffrey Credan of Mooloch, an ancient
family in the county ; indeed so ancient
that they derived, or boasted to have
derived their descent from the Milesian
Colony who had established themselves in
Ireland some centuries, as it is believed,
before the Christian era. They were a
good family, no doubt ; for in addition to
their ancient lineage, they could fairly boast
of an amount of private and public virtue
transmitted from sire to son, and exemplified

in yarloiis acts of exalted patriotism
and noble generosity, which could not be
placed to the credit of many families in the
country. No member of the family was
ever known to descend to mean practices
for self-aggrandizement, or to shrink from

CO '

the assertion of public principle through
fear of ill-consequence to themselves. On
many occasions they lost advantages,
which they might have easily secured by
swerving: a little from the risfht line of
honour ; but this they were always incapable
of doing : so that under every
phase of changing circumstances in the
history of their country, they adhered to
the standard of honour and of principle.
They were consequently greatly respected
not only in the county where they resided
from time immemorial, but also throughout
the whole extent of the land. Their very
name was a synonym of integrity, honour,
patriotism. They did not, it is true,
appear before the country in the garb of
rampant patriots ; they rarely attended the
public platform ; and whenever they did, it
was not for the mere purpose of vain or

ambitions display, but in order to give the
sanction of their liigii name and well-established
reputation to some measure of
real and pressing importance to the interests
of their country. 'Not one member
of this high-souled and noble-minded
family was ever known to play the mountebank
in politics, any more than in the
domain of private life. They were too
proud, too self-conscious, too noble in
mind and in spirit to stain their character
by contact with so foul a practice. In
their matrimonial connexions they also
preserved their hereditary self-consciousness.
They avoided low and mean alliances,
that is, such alliances as might jar
with the transmitted integrity and purity
of their name and race. They sometimes,
indeed, intermarried with families who
could not boast of large possessions, but
who, on the contrary, were limited in their
circumstances, restricted in their means ;
but then they Lad good blood in their
veins ; they were upright, honourable, pure-minded,
of good reputation ; in a word,
they were of a pure and gentle stock.

Such then were the Cretan of Mooloch.
And the ladies whose conversation we have
been Hastening to, were daughters of that
house. Mrs. Moore and Mrs. Credan were
the daughters of Geoffrey Credan of Moo-loch,
who had no male heirs in a direct
line, at his death; the property therefore
descended to the next heir collateral, who
was also named Geoffrey, to whom Miss
Credan was married : and thus she became
Mrs. Credan.

The two sisters resembled each other in
some respects, though not in a very decided
way ; their figure, which was of the
]petite rather than the grande cast, was
pretty much the same, except that Mrs.
Credan' s was more rounded and firm than
that of her sister. The physiognomy,
however, exhibited a decided difference in
both. Mrs. Credan's face was rounder,
fuller, and brighter than that of Mrs.
Moore's; and there was besides an elasticity
of disposition displayed in the eyes and
mouth, and configuration of the head, neck,
and shoulders of Mrs. Credan, which were
entirely absent in her sister. In point of

VOL. I. B

age, Mrs. Moore might be about fifty years,
while her sister might have counted two
or three less. There was, moreover, a
kind of apprehensive keenness in the look
of Mrs. Moore, as if she suffered from some
incumbent dread of evil to come ; this was
entirely foreign from the expression of
Mrs. Credan.

We have seen that the sisters differed in
opinion as to the best mode of preventing
Fanny Moore's love for Herbert Granville
from culminating, and from thus destroying
her fair prospect of settling down as the
mistress of Castle Whitmore. The distinctive
character of the two ladies was
made manifest by the mode and manner of
reasoning which they adopted on that
subject. The one, Mrs. Moore, was doubtful,
hesitating, fearful ; the other clear,
sharp, decisive.

But what must now strike the reader as
rather strange and inconsistent in the
character of the two ladies when placed in
juxtaposition with their hereditary pride
and purity of lineage, is this, that both of
them seemed utterly oblivious of the character

and descent of the man whom they
desired to be brought into the circle of
their family, and to mingle in the current
of their blood. They felt the full value
and importance of the pure source, whence
they sprung ; they were as proud of their
descent, and as solicitous to continue it
untarnished to their successors as any of
their predecessors ever had been, or could
have been ; they were high-minded generous,
noble, pure ; and yet they would
descend from that elevation of resplendent
honour and brilliant fame, to the level of a
sordid meanness, and a buffoon reputation
represented in the person of Joe
A\^itmore.

The reader may be able to find a solution
of this mystery, if it may be called a mystery,
in the nature and character of woman ;
but we cannot give our assent to such a
solution, notwithstanding the high authority
of the Roman poet, —

Barium et mutable semper est famine."

AYe cannot, we repeat, record our approval
of a solution so detrimental to the
E 2

character of woman ; because we believe in
the essential goodness of lier nature, the
purity and ingenuousness of lier mind, and
the angelic aspirations of her soul; and
thus believing, we cannot permit our
judgment to pronounce her condemnation
upon occasions when we fail to be able to
account satisfactorily for any apparent
aberrations in her conduct.

When Mrs. Moore sent her servant to
request her daughter's presence in the
drawing-room, Fanny was away amid the
solitude of the hills, enjoying the fragrance
and music of free nature in its summer
and midday loveliness ; and consequently
the two ladies were obliged to postpone
their further investigation into the mystery
of her affections until another
opportunity.

They now remembered that they owed
some visits to friends residing at different
points down the valley ; and they accordingly
ordered their carriage ; leaving,
at the same time, an injunction with one
of the serving-maids to inform that young

lady upon lier return that they desired to
see her before dinner-hour in the drawing-room
on important business ; and not to
forget telling her this immediately upon
her return from her walk.*

CHAPTER IX.

A WALK IN THE GLENS — THE PLEDGE.

It will be remembered that at noon on the
day before that of the dinner-party at
Brookfield Hall, Herbert Granville held a
short interview with John Gorman, or the
captain, in the shrubbery at the rear of
the Hall, and that at this interview the
captain handed Herbert a note from Miss
Moore. The note ran thus : —

'^ Tuesday morning,
My dear Herbert, —

As you cannot come to the Glazement
this afternoon, I shall see you
at any hour you may desire, and which
will be convenient to you on the day after
to-morrow You will dine with us tomorrow.
Papa insists upon it — mind,

come. Aunt Credan is come, and she and
mamma will have all sorts of things to
occupy them, so that I will be rather in
the way for them. A nice walk in the
glens would be beautiful. Let me know
what hour, and I shall be ready. Don't
forget the book — I mean the other one you
were speaking of.

'* As usual,

Your own,

It will also be remembered that at parting
on that occasion, Herbert told the
captain to meet him at the same place,
and about the same hour on the second
day next succeeding. Accordingly, on the
appointed day, and about the hour named,
Herbert might be seen strolling carelessly
along the farm road at the foot of the hill
and in the rear of the Hall, with a book
open in his hands, in which he appeared to
be deeply absorbed. When he had reached
that point of the road which touched upon
the grove or shrubbery, he sprang over the
intervening hedge, and walked along by
the trees until he came to the spot where

the former interview took place. Just as
lie turned an angle in the line of the grove,
he perceived the captain seated under a
wide-spreading tree, with the beehive
hat between his knees, and his right hand
moving over its surface in the act of impressing
some arithmetical figures upon it
with a piece of chalk.

Having recognized and saluted each
other, the captain said, —

Faith, Master Herbert, I never heard
you coming ; I was so bent on this sum
I couldn't hear anything. I was trying
the decimals on a wind, but I'm out of
practice, and the squalls put me back, and
took me from my course. But it makes no
difference, I was only trying my hand on
the old rule, and I see I can't bring it
about yet awhile. I'll manage it though,
by-and-by."

I thought," observed Herbert, '' that
nothing in the way of figures, even though
they were figures of speech, was too difficult
for you to manipulate."

Yes, I was smart one time in my life ;
but I'm getting a little soaked in the

timbers now, and I don't answer my helm
as in former times. There's nothing like
youth, Master Herbert, it makes the ropes
work smoothly in the blocks, and the
spars to buckle in the breeze. Age makes
one stiff and hard, that's the way it goes."

Herbert had taken a seat on a large
root that extended from the tree beneath
which the captain was ensconced; and
then taking a small sealed note from between
the leaves of the book which he
carried, he looked at it, and said, —

'' Captain, do you know if she be engaged
now, for I wish this to be given to
her at once, provided she is not taken up
with any matter, or with any company that
would make it imprudent to have it handed
to her. You had better take it at once,
and be cautious."

'' Too-o-ot, man alive, you needn't make
signals to me about the lie and bearings
of the land ; no, Master Herbert, I'm too
old a pilot to mistake the reefs or drive
the ship on a sunken rock. But, look here,
my hearty ! There are squalls ahead in my
opinion. That Mrs. Credan — that lady with

the lantern hung in the left corner of her
right eye — she is the aunt of the fair one,
eh ? I haven't that craft measured yet, I'd
like, too, to fathom the father she sails in.
'T would be no harm in my opinion. I tell
you, that I do not understand her trim as
yet. It may be all tight and safe; but
I'd like to examine it before going to sea."

'' Why ! — what do you fear ? "

What do I fear, eh ? Well, that is the
very thing I want to know myself, because
if I knew what I had to fear, I'd provide
according, d'you see ? If it was a shoal,
I'd lighten cargo; if 'twas a squall I'd
down canvas ; and if 'twas bad trim, I'd
shift ballast."

Why," interrupted Herbert, '' why do
you use those sea terms so much? I can't
well comprehend your meaning through
this phraseology. You can convey your
ideas without having recourse to that mode
of speech if you like ; for you sometimes
avoid it altogether."

*' Oh, as for that, it depends on the
humour I'm in at the time. It is like the
rising and falling of the tide; I can't

prevent it from cording or going, nor can I
clearly explain why it comes or goes. I
believe myself that nobody can well explain
the tides either. It is hard to understand
anything, Master Herbert. Now, take
the female sex, for example. Can you
explain Mrs. Credan to me ? Can you
explain any of 'em to me? I loved a girl
once ; and of all the living things I ever
came across in the universe she puzzled
me. You can't tell their rate of sailing';
suppose you heave the log once every six
hours, do you think you'll find it that way ?
'No, 'tis no use heaven' of logs. In my
opinion the best way to navigate 'em is tolet
'em go before the wind, and keep steady
your tiller."

Oh, well, well," interrupted Herbert,
never mind your navigation. Go, take
this, and give it to her. Don't be long, I
shall wait here for your return."

The captain rose with a bound, shook
himself, and placed the beehive hat on his
head. He then placed Herbert's note in
his breast pocket, and went his way.

After he had gone Herbert extended

himself at full length on the grassy turf,
folding his arms behind his head, and
placing his straw hat over his eyes to protect
them from the sun's rays as they
glanced between the foliage. Thus reposing
at his ease, he fell into a reverie.

'what a world it is;" thus went his
thoughts, '' and what a thing humanity
is ! — we are born, we live, we die. Some
seem as though they understood it all ; or
perhaps they have never thought over it at
all. The captain, poor fellow ! he has had
his love affair, too ; he has been disappointed,
that's evident. Who was she, I
wonder : did she love him ? — that could not
be, for if she did she could not deceive
him. Deceive him ! what a thing to
imagine of woman. Not surely was she
created to deceive. But, ay; Eve deceived
— was that deception though ? She
loved her Lord. What was it then ? She
wished to know of good and evil, a desire
of knowledge, and to communicate this
knowledge to her Lord. That was not
deception — ah, but it was a sin. She
disobeyed the injunction of her Maker —

that was all; aj, but that was much.
Her crime, then, was disobedience to lawful
authority, through the influence of
curiosity. Yes, curiosity is woman's weak
point. Dear, dear Fanny, your curiosity
is guided by discretion ; you love me, you
love God; that's it: I believe you would
have never tasted of that forbidden fruit,
if you had been placed in the garden.
My sweetest, dearest, my own Fanny !
Hallo, captain."

Too-o-ot," exclaimed the captain, as
standing over Herbert, with a comical
expression of countenance in which the
contraction of the eyes, and the protrusion
of the under lip formed the chief ingredients,
he drew from his breast pocket
a small knotted slip of paper. Herbert
sat up, rubbed his eyes, and took the paper ;
which, having read, he said, " This is all
well, captain ; I must be away ; you have
done your business well ; but, hark'ee, I
have a good deal to talk with you about
as to other matters ; another time for that,
however. See me shortly, down at Ash
Grove. I shall be at home to you at anytime

you call, after seven in the afternoon,
except on Saturdays and Sundays. I must
bid you a good-bye now — you saw her,
did you?"

To be sure I saw ber, bow do you
suppose I'd get that scrap o' paper if I
didn't see her ? Perhaps you thought I
hired a journeyman to do the business forme.
Too-o-ot ! I tell you what, Master
Herbert, I always rig my own craft."

AYhat did she say ? " interrupted
Herbert.

'' Faith, I can hardly tell what she said,
she looked more than she talked ; of all the
crafts I ever saw, I never saw one that
carried her sails neater and closer, or
appeared on the waves with more light
about her. That's the way to say it."

'' Oh, good-bye, good-bye," returned
Herbert, smiling, and walking rapidly
away by the side of the shrubbery, and-towards
the farm road above.

The captain stood for a moment eyeing
the retreating figure of Herbert; but as
soon as that gentleman had disappeared
behind the angle of the grove he sat down

under the tree, folded his arms around this
chest, and looked into vacancy. Having
remained in this mood for some time, his
lips at length began to move, and the
following thoughts and sentiments came
from them in slow, broken, and dreamlike
fragments.

Yes, Fanny Moore — Miss Fanny
Moore ! — you are a heavenly creature, the
deep, soft, sunny eye — there never was
deceit in that yet ; believe me, John
Gorman, where the eye is broad — open I
mane — clear, and deep, the soul is straight,
that's my understanding of the matter.
A shallow eye won't do, the soul is muddy
under it. Never mind the colour, I like
blue best though, because why ? It is the
colour of the sky, that's all : the soul came
down from the sky, shining', fluttering',
martin' and dazzling' your eyes only for the
blue that softened it, and pitched it into
shape-like : if the soul and the sky were all
of a piece, and one colour, you couldn't
see any soul at all — how could you?
That's my reason for saying' I like blue
best. Never mind your light eye — a light

eye and foxy hair ! — Oli God help us ;
lead us not into temptation, bub deliver
us from all evil, Amen.' The brown eye
rich and mellow, like ripe grapes — the
light clear, clear down, and the rich fountain
of knowledge and of wisdom full and
shining' below. That's to be liked. But
where am I ? Ay, Fanny — Miss Fanny
Moore ! She loves him — I'd swear that
any day. And precious love it is too ; but
all love is precious, that's to say, if there's
love there. But everything that looks
shiny is not gold, her love is gold, though.
I wonder is there anything in the blood,
as they say. High blood, okl blood, noble
blood, ancient blood ; I think myself there
is. 'Tis like there is. If blood is nothing,
how is it that Herbert Granville is sound
at the heart, and that Joe \Yhitmore is
rotten ? I'd like to know that. Yes,
Herbert is proud, honourable, noble, and
he is come of a noble race — he has high
blood. Well, t'other, is mane, false,
scheming', and lie is come of a bad race —
lie has low blood in him. There it is.
There is something in the blood. Herbert

Granville is a gentleman, Joe Whitmore is
a hoddagh (a selfish half-clown) — there it is
again. The Granvilles came of an ancient
family, long, long ago, without stain or
dishonour ; but the Whitmores — och ! —
they came t'other day out of the mud.
And the Moores ; there it is again. The
Mo ores are of the rale old Milesian stock,
they never yet stooped to man or mortal,
too-o-ot ! they'd scorn it. Well, they hsiye
the blood, and they are upright, honest,
true, proud, and noble — just like the Granvilless
; but not a bit like the AYhitmores.
There it is again. Look at that Joe
Whitmore, the mane hosthoon^' (puffed up
and empty-headed fellow), *look at him
now ; he is no more a gentleman than you
are an admiral, John Gorman. And he is
a fighting' fellow, too — too-o-ot ! He thinks
that makes a gentleman of him. I knew a
fellow in Canada, and there was no standing'
him in that line ; he'd fight every one ; but
will you believe me, John Gorman, down
at the bottom of that fellow's heart there
was as much cowardice as would put in a
decent stock for two dozen of poltroons ;
VOL. I. s

and as for meanness, and lying, and
roguery, I never met his match. There
it is again. There must be something
in the blood, after all. There are poor
men, too — that makes no difference,
though — the poorest labouring man may
have the good drop in him. It isn't the
riches that do it at all. I know men, poor
industrious men — and I knew a great many
of such in Canada, and in the United
States, when I was in those countries ;
and they'd scorn to do anything mane or
deceitful. Well, those are gentlemen — rich
or poor, the man who is honest and upright,
true to his word, and plain and clear in his
dealing's ; I call that man a gentleman,
that is, the heart's blood of a gentleman,
not an accomplished gentleman, of course,
unless he has education and high refinement
; but what I say is this, without
honesty, truth, fairness, uprightness, and
justice, no man is entitled to the name of
gentleman — I stand to that.

'' I wonder will they be married ? 'tis a
pity if they don't. Too-o-ot ! Joe Whitmore,
indeed ! He is no more fit for her than

you, Join Gorman, are fit to sit on the
throne of England. Well, Master Herbert,
-I'm afraid that it won't be all smooth
water with you, there is a great deal of
scheming' going' on against you — you have
plenty of enemies. I believe that. But
come what may, blow high or blow low,
John Gorman will stand your friend —
heigh ! "

And here he yawned, and then jumped
to his feet.

I must go too," he muttered, as he
passed from under the shade, and walked
away in the direction of Ballydine.

Herbert Granville, having passed out on
the farm road already mentioned, entered
the field opposite, and crossing the rising
ground which stretched away towards
the mountain road leading upwards from
Ballydine, he skirted the northern side of
a circular grove that lay like a crown on
the distant upland, and then turning eastward
he descended by a gradual slope down
upon the road. He walked on a couple of
dozen paces, and then sat down on the
green bank which bordered one side of thes
2

road, and protected it from the precipice
that opened on the glen below. He had
not sat here more than half an hour, when
he saw Miss Moore turn an angle of the
road about twenty yards below him. She
came along with a slow meditative pace,
apparently enjoying the lovely and romantic
scene around her. Her rich and
luxuriant hair fell in soft, graceful curls
over her neck and shoulders ; while she
held her wide-leaved Leghorn hat half
swinging by a ribbon in one hand, and
in the other a book, into which she occasionally
glanced, as if comparing some
description of scenery with that which
Nature now unfolded to her view. She
suddenly lifted her eyes, and beheld
Herbert on the bank, some distance in
advance of her. She smiled a rosy smile ;
the light of joy sparkling in her eyes and
playing around her features. She closed
her book and stepped on briskly to meet
him. He, too, as soon as he had seen her,
rose from the bank, and stepped out upon
the road, advancing towards her. Ere she
had approached within a dozen yards of

him, lier hand was raised and extended
with zeal to greet him. His, too, was
involuntarily extended, while a warm glow
of love bathed in light, overspread his
countenance. They met; her hand was
placed in his, while her upturned face,
smiling and confident, glanced its beaming
loveliness into his eyes. He stooped
gently down, and pressed her cheek with
his lips. They turned up the road, along
the margin of the glen. The scene was
enchanting. Before them lay the cultivated
slopes of the mountain range that
swept away far into the distance, resting
against the bosom of the blue sky. Behind
and far away below them, lay extended
and gorgeous in the midday sun, the Yale
of Orma. On their left the land was
steep and abrupt, shutting out the view;
while on the right the deep and winding
glens, immediately below them, hid themselves
away from the meridian splendours,
and drank cooling draughts from the
sweet, clear waters that purled and danced
within their soft embraces. Above and
beyond these glens rose another mountain

range that lost itself far away in the bright
horizon.

Herbert and Fanny paced slowly on, in
happy converse, feeling the full influence
of the scene and the season. After sometime
they reached an opening in the grassy
bank that bounded the road on the glen
side. They passed through this, and
descended in a sloping direction to the
chain of glens and ravines that gradually
unfolded themselves as they advanced.
At length they arrived at a small foot-path
that ran along the windings of the rivulet.
The trees here were large and towering,
some overshadowing the water with their
arms and foliage, and forming an arch like
the aisle of a cathedral, for long stretches
here and there, along the course of the
stream. At a point in the centre of one
of these aisles opened a rustic bridge,
composed of large, smooth, and rounded
stones, which led to the other side of the
ravine. They crossed over this with ease,
for the water was low, and the stones were
dry and close. Ascending the slope at the
other side, along the corridors and arches

formed bj the great umbrageous trees
that covered it, they, after a little time,
came out upon a green swart that formed
the centre of a tableau which stood at a
considerable elevation above the bed of the
stream below, but to which the murmuring
of the waters reached in a soft and dreamy
cadence. At one extremity of this green
circular spot stood a Druid's altar, overgrown
in part with moss and stained with
time. Its original construction was much
defaced, though it preserved a regularity
of outline that was somewhat remarkable
when it was considered how many centuries
had cast their blio^htino^ and
deforming influences over it. It was
formed of four upright massive stones, flat
and longitudinal, sustaining an incumbent
slab or palestine, with a hollow in the
centre of it ; this slab rested chiefly upon
a single point of one of the upright stones,
for it barely touched the top of another,
while the remaining two did not reach
within several inches of it. The four
upright stones inclined inwards ; so that
the upper slab or palestine extended

beyond its supports, like a centre table
resting on its branching pillar. A few-broken
fragments of the altar lay scattered
about ; and within the structure were one
or two other fragments which lay in the
form of a bench, and were covered with
green turf. The altar with the outlying-fragments
was surrounded with pine and
birch trees which rose above it, and
excluded it from view. On one side, however,
there was an opening made through
the shrub, which led to an aperture that
opened into the interior. Seated upon the
green bench inside, the observer was
afforded, through this aperture, a view
along one of the slopes of the mountain
eastward as well as of a portion of the
Vale of Orma, which stretched up to the
base of that mountain. The two lovers
passed in through this opening, and seated
themselves upon the turf-covered bench
within the Druid's altar.

It was a sweet and calm retreat. The
sunbeams came in struggling through the
surrounding foliage, and slept in lines, or
quivered in circles upon the grassy floor.

A thin, very thin air breathed through the
trees, and carried to the ear the soft
murmuring of the water in the deep ravine
below. The birds had hushed their
melody, and slept within the branches of
the surrounding pines and birches, or
laved their drooping wings in the eddying
waters of the rivulet. The low, sleepy
buzz of winged insects afforded the only
indication of the existence of animal life
within the immediate precincts of the
glens. But beyond, upon the slopes of
the mountain, could be seen the cattle
reclining by the hedge-rows, or pacing
heavily along as they sought refuge within
the clumps of fir that here and there
broke the naked uniformity of the sweeping
uplands. In the A^ale of Orma, just
beneath the mountain spur, lay the scattered
mansions of the neighbouring gentry
reposing in solemn grandeur amid the
gigantic oaks and elms, that surrounded
and adorned them. Ash Grove House, the
residence of Herbert, appeared close by
the mountain foot ; while the magnificent
mansion of Lord Fairborough, with its

widely extended park and gorgeous accompaniments
of lake and river, grove and
glen, deer-walk, and pleasure-ground, lay
further down the vale, reposing in the
bright effulgence of a glowing sun and a
cloudless sky. It was a sweet and beautiful,
as well as a grand and sublime scene ;
and no one could look upon it without
feeling a thrill of pleasurable sensations
pervading his inmost nature.

As Herbert and Fanny sat within the
Druid's altar, her right hand resting
within his left, and her hat on the turf
beside her, they drank in the full charm
of the scene. They sat silent for a considerable
time, as if unwilling to disturb
the exquisite repose and quiet dream of
nature. At length Fanny said, in a soft,
low voice, —

How sweet, dear Herbert, it is here."

Very, very sweet, indeed," was the
reply.

** I feel," she continued, '' as if my heart
could melt into this scene, and mix with
it, and live in it for ever. It is so beautiful
— so lovely. Oh, Herbert, could you

ever think to separate yourself from these
glens and mountain scenes, these beautiful
everlasting works, where God seems to
walk, and to scatter His sweetest, His
choicest gifts ? Could you leave them,
Herbert ? " And she bent her head upon
his bosom.

Separate myself from them ?" he said,
"no, not willingly — not of my own free
choice. I should deem it, dear Fanny,
the highest and dearest blessings that Godin
His infinite goodness could confer upon
me, to live amid these scenes of my childhood,
of my youth, of my manhood ; to
live among them, to die among them.
But, ah ! what would they be if my heart
were denied that without which even these
scenes, dear as they are, should fail to
bring it repose and happiness? Iso, Fanny,
believe me ; without you, without your
presence, and your love, all this, beautiful
as it is, all these scenes endeared to me as
they are from the earliest dawn of feeling,
would be but as a huge grave where lay
buried all my hopes, my aspirations, and
my best, my tenderest affections. I have

often thought this matter over; I have
reflected upon it in the silent hours of
night, when all was hushed, and my heart
alone seemed to live and beat amid the
universal sleep of nature ; I have reflected
upon it until my head ached, and my soul
seemed bursting from my body, as though
it desired to escape from the suffering and
the misery which my imagination pictured.
How early began that love which bound
my heart to you ! I can scarcely recall the
hour, the time when first I loved you ; it
came ; it grew as though we were both
fashioned in the same mould together, and
that we had never existed but as one.
It was in our old schooldays. You
remember the school below in the village ?
you remember the class where we stood
together ? you remember the play-hour at
midday? We helped each other at lessons ;
we separated from our school-mates at play,
and walked together down the green lane,
under the shade of the willow-trees. Did
we not love then ? But we did not speak
of love then ! we knew it not by name ;
but it was there, in our hearts, in our

feelings, in our thoughts. "Well, we
separated in after-years ; I was sent to
college, and you to a boarding-school.
We ceased to meet, to see each other,
except at vacation. We then met, and do
you remember how glad we were to meet ?
I do. I then felt all the warmth, the
tenderness, the affection of other days
spring up again within my bosom ; and I
saw that you felt it all too. At last we
returned home, to remain at home. And
then we met as man and woman, and in
the society of our equals. The playful
familiarity of childhood, of early youth, had
ceased between us, but our love, that
young love that first linked our hearts
together, was that gone ? No ; but it had
grown stronger, brighter, steadier. We
concealed it, though — not from ourselves,
for that we could not do ; but we concealed,
or rather strove to conceal it from
others : and why ? because we felt it was
too dear a thing, too sacred, too holy a
treasure to expose it to the profane gaze
of any one. You remember that evening
in Glen Corril, when first I gave words to

my feeling, and told you my love; you
bent your head, as you do now, upon my
bosom, and wept. You have often since
told me that your heart at that moment
throbbed with the brightest, liveliest sensation
of joy it had ever felt before, and
that you were happy, oh ! how happy.
And I knew you were. I knew I was
happy beyond the power of expressing it !
And, Fanny — dear, dear Fanny — can you
now understand why these scenes, all dear
and lovely as they are, would be to me dark
and dreary if you ceased to be mine ? "

While he thus spoke he occasionally
looked into her upturned face, and pressed
his lips upon her forehead; but when he
had ceased, he leant back his head against
the stone of the altar, and sighed deeply.
She lifted her head from his bosom, and
turning round, she stooped over him, and
pressed her lips upon his forehead, while
her luxuriant tresses fell cloud-like over
his face, and her tears rolled down upon
his brow. She then assumed an erect posture,
and said, *' Dear Herbert, we must
never part — oh, never ! never ! never ! *'

She pressed her hands upon her heart,
and continued : —

'*If sou should leave, if anything should
happen that would cause our separation,
I think my heart would break. Oh, no,
Herbert, dear, dear Herbert, I could
never live without you. You don't know
how dear you are to me. We will be
married, my own dear Herbert ; we must
be married."

He raised his head from the altar stone,
and folding her in his arms, he pressed
her to his bosom. She again spoke : —

I know very well, dear, that mamma
and Aunt Credan are desirous that I should
be married to that abominable person,
Whitmore ; but papa and Harry do not
care much about him ; indeed, I know that
Harry detests him ; for he always ridicules
him when his name is mentioned in the
family ; and says that he ought not to be
admitted into any respectable company.
What astonishes me is that mamma and
Aunt Credan should not only tolerate him,
but absolutely speak of him as if he were
a person that was entitled to their esteem.

I know low ifc is though : they think that
lie would be a desirable connexion on
account of this large estates, never considering
the low character and vulgar
manners of the man ; or low it would be
possible for me, or indeed for any woman
of feeling and delicacy to live with such a
person. I declare most solemnly that I
would prefer to be confined within a prison
all my life, ay, or even to die — yes, to die
to being married to him. And is it not
astonishing that, knowing this, as he must
know it if he is capable of understanding
anything, he should still jo^i'severe in
urging his suit with the family ? But,
Herbert dear, you must not be tormenting
yourself with notions of my being separated
from you : I shall never be separated from
you while I live — and oh ! " she exclaimed,
raising her eyes towards heaven, " I hope
and trust we shall know and love each
other even in the kingdom of our good
Father in Heaven. No, Herbert; whatever
may be your present difficulties ; no
matter what obstructions may occur to
retard the happy day when we shall be

united, I shall never part from you. Make
your mind easy, dear, about that. If your
uncle in Canada desires to see you, you
need not deny him or yourself the pleasure
of meeting ; and if he should wish you to
settle down there with him, let not any
apprehension about me prevent you from
doing so, if you should think it desirable
for your welfare. Wherever you may be,
I shall always be prepared to join you, if
necessary : or if you should determine to
return to me, I shall be but too happy to
wait for you.* No, Herbert, I shall never
marry any man but you."

Herbert again clasped her to his breast ;
and, strange as it may appear — and to
some it may, doubtless, appear strange —
he burst into a flood of tears, which he
was unable to restrain for several minutes.
She, calm and collected, took her handkerchief
from her Reticule, and busied herself
in wiping them away ; after which she
kissed his brow, and commenced to banter
him.

"Ah, Herbert, is that your firmness ? "
she said, after a time ; " is that the way

VOL. I. T

you are preparing to encounter your difficulties
? Why, I am braver than you. I am
not afraid of trouble. I am sure we are
not going to have any difficulties or trouble.
We must be brave and courageous. I am
yours, you know ; and that ought to be
enough to cheer you. You see how conceited
I am now," and she laughed merrily,
patting him on the cheek at the same
moment.

There now, dear," she resumed, *' what
are you going to say ? "

I am going to say this, dear Fanny,"
and he ran his fingers under her ringlets,
*' I am going to say this, you are a
sweet, dear girl — oh, how I do love you ! "

Is that all ? — get away with you ; "
and she slapped him on the cheek.

"Yes, dear Fanny," he resumed; *you
have made me very, very happy. I shall
tell you now that I have received a letter
from my uncle in Canada, and he is very
urgent in his solicitations to me to join
him. He has never married, you know ;
so that I presume he is desirous to have
me with him as a companion and superintendent

of his estate there, intending
probably — indeed, he says so — to leave me
the property at his death. Now, Lord
Fairborough, as you are aware, has manifested
great interest in me — indeed, he has
always acted with the most generous
friendship towards our family — well, he
has kindly offered me his intercession with
the British Minister for some colonial
appointment — I don't know what it is :
but I suppose anything that might chance
to be open, and should at the same time
suit me. Now, how to act I scarcely know.
I should like to have my uncle's opinion
as to the desirability of obtaining this
colonial appointment. It may possibly
not fall in with his views that I should
accept anything of this kind ; and, you
know, I shouldn't like to displease him ;
and this, not so much for any personal
advantages I may secure from his friendship,
but in consideration of his own
excellent disposition and personal merits.
I do not know much of him, of my own
knowledge, for I was but a very small boy
when he left for Canada ; but his character,
T 2

as I have heard it from those who knew
him intimately and well, has impressed me
much. I remember, too, that I was a
great favourite of his when I lived with
my grandfather Brown ; for he often took
me upon his knee, and called me his darling
boy ; I remember, too, hearing him say to
my grandfather that if he should not have
any family of his own, he would adopt meas
his child. You see, my dear, that I
could not consistently with the relations
which exist between my uncle and myself,
and which in part he has himself established
with a view to my welfare, take any
important step without at least his concurrence.
My great anxiety in reference
to this matter has been my relation to
you : I could not think of parting with you
even for a brief period, lest I should lose
your affection, or at least, expose you to
the possibility of having your love for me
sacrificed to the wishes of your family.
And, oh, Fanny ! how could I endure such
a fate ? What would life, and all that life
could give under even the most favourable
circumstances — what would it all be tome,

if I lead lost that wliicli alone can make
life worth possessing? But now I feel
happy — oh ! how happy in the thought
that nothing can withdraw your heart from
me ; and that you are prepared to wait,
and perhaps to suffer for me, until I am ina
position to take you to my bosom, and
bid you rest there for ever. And yet, how
can one calculate on human vicissitudes ?
If your family should press you ; if they
should persecute you ; if — but oh, I can't
bear the pressure of the thoughts that
come crowding upon my mind, and striking
at my heart'

Herbert," suddenly broke in Fanny,
with a solemn expression of countenance,
as she moved her eyes slowly around the
space within which they sat, " isn't this a
sacred place ? an altar, where God was
worshipped in other days ; a tomb, perhaps,
where the ashes of His worshippers are now
sleeping here beneath our feet;" — and she
drew her foot softly over the grassy floor
" may not the spirits of the departed
ones be now hovering around us ? Herbert,"
she continued, placing her hand

upon Ms shoulder, " perhaps, even the
spirits of some of our ancestors are here,
listening, watching over us. Do you know
that I feel as if they were whispering holy
thoughts into my ear, and encouraging me
to acts of virtue, of truth, of purity, of
honour ? Listen, Herbert ! kneel down :
let us pledge our hearts to one another
here in the presence of the spirits of our
ancestors. You must not part from me
with a single doubt upon your mind. The
shades of our ancestors, pure, holy, glorified,
shall be witnesses to our pledge of undying
fidelity to each other — kneel, Herbert,
kneel — and take this ring."

They both knelt upon the green turf,
face to face, their eyes and hands raised upto
heaven; and there in the presence of
God, whose brightness was reflected from
that sun in honour of which that altar had
been erected in centuries long gone by —
there they solemnly and religiously invoked
the Almighty Creator of the sun, and of all
things beyond and beneath the sun, to
witness and bless their mutual promise to
love and cherish each other, under every

circumstance of fortune while life remained
to them. And Herbert placed the ring
upon her finger. They then bent their
heads in prayer; after which they rose,
and impressed each other's lips with the
kiss of peace, and of holy love.

From that moment the lovers felt an
elasticity of spirit which defied the frowns
of adversity. Their hearts beat in gladness.
Their thoughts flowed in currents free,
joyous, and bright. And the crushing
dread of ills, shadowed forth in the darkness
of the future, had passed away from
their bosoms, leaving in its place naught
save joy and hope, im checked, and undimmed.
They talked no more of dangers
of separation ; of wily influences operating
against their union ; of impediments obstructing
the path of their future happiness:
all apprehensions of this nature had disappeared
from their horizon ; and nothing
but security, peace, joy, and contentment,
lighted the years looming before them.
The turbulence of the tempest within them
was hushed, and a calm sky of hope with
its streaming sunlight shone around them.

It was the happiest moment that had ever
dawned upon the experience of the young
lovers. It was one of those moments
which come only once in a life. Perhaps
it is well that they do not come very often ;
their repetition might tend only to darken
that which their passing glance had
brightened and purified. Too much light
blots out the sight : too much happiness
might dim the consciousness within us, and
render us unfit for the glory to come.
The human heart is a curious organ ; it
requires gloom as well as sunshine to
enable it to expand and vibrate to the
touch of Him who made it.

But enough, Herbert and Fanny were
now happy in their conscious love and inseparable
union. Nothing now but death
could separate them. Infidelity was unthought
of. Oh, no ; their young hearts
never dreamt of such a thing as infidelity.
That was a state of feeling which they
never experienced, nor could experience;
for it is reserved only for the vicious, the
debauched, the profligate. Virtue knows
nothing of it ; honour shrinks from it ;

purity o£ thought and feeling recoils from
it as light from darkness, heaven from
hell. There was no cloud upon them
now. They could look calmly up to the
sky, and along the horizon of life. And
so they talked quietly and thoughtfully of
the future; and felt themselves able and
ready to grapple with any difficulty that
might rise up in their pathway. They
talked of the future, of the present, of
the past ; and the hours glided over them
bright and cheery.

*well," observed Fanny, after a pause
in their conversation about their ancestors,
what a strange mode of worship our
early ancestors followed. I don't mind so
much the form and appearance of those
altars as the object of worship. And yet,
after all, the sun is the most wonderful
object in nature. What is there like it ?
It is at once the most splendid and most
useful object of the universe. It is no
wonder then that they should be attracted
by it, and stimulated to an adoration of —
not itself, but of its Author, its Creator.
That is what surprises me — that they

stopped at the splendid, life-giving orb,
and did not send their thoughts and
hearts beyond it, to the all-wonderful,
all-powerful, all-wise, all-good maker of
it."

As she spoke her beautiful eyes were
turned up to heaven, and her hands were
raised and clasped together.

'* They had forgotten the true worship''
replied Herbert ; " like all the Gentile
nations, they were drawn to the grandest
and most striking objects of Nature, by
the spirit of adoration inseparable from
our human being, in the absence of that
knowledge which prescribes the true mode
of worshipping the Creator. The Canaanites
were, perhaps, the first people who
lost the true worship. They abandoned the
precepts of their fathers, and, in course of
time, forgot even their teaching. But, as I
have said, they must worship something,
for worship is a principle inherent in man;
so they turned to stones, and groves, and
trees, and water ; and, of course, to the
sun, moon, and stars. These became
objects of adoration to the Gentiles allover

the world ; and of course our ancestors
shared in the general idolatry."

Is it not a curious reflection* observed
Fanny, '' that this altar, this huge pile of
rough, unhewn stones, has existed here
for ages upon ages ; and that people have
come here week after week — perhaps day
after day — for centuries upon centuries, to
offer up sacrifices, and prayer, and incense,
to that suD that is now shining above our
heads; and that their voices have been
raised all round here ; and that the sounds
of their footsteps coming and going were
here too; and that some of them," — here
she lowered her voice, and looked down
upon the turf — '' and that some of them
were buried here, and are now sleeping
beneath our feet ? "

"Yes," was the reply, "it is a curious
reflection."

How long," she resumed, " how long
is it, Herbert, since they worshipped
here ? "

It is impossible to say ; " answered
Herbert. " It is some fourteen hundred
years since St. Patrick commenced his

apostleship ; but we have reason to believe
that some of our ancestors continued their
idolatrous practices during his lifetime,
and perhaps long after it. You may depend
upon it, they did not all give up their
practices at once. It is not unlikely that
even after they had ceased to sacrifice they
came to pray ; and like you and me they
felt strengthened and cheered by their occasional
visits to the altar and the tomb of
their ancestors. What say you, dearest ? "
and he passed his hand around her waist.

"It is time for us to go," she said; "it
will be near dinner-hour by the time we
descend the hill. Come."

They both rose, and, passing out at the
aperture through which they had entered,
they crossed through the clump of underwood
and issued out upon the green sward.
Then, instead of returning by the pathway
through which they had reached the altar,
they walked down the sloping ground on
the other side, beneath the embowering
trees, until they reached a point which
dipped gradually towards the bottom of
the glen. They crossed the stream below,

and pursued their way upwards until the
came out upon the mountain road, nearly
opposite the point where they had met at
noon. Here they separated, after having
arranged their future meetings. She
crossed into the fields by which she had
come, and he continued down the wind-ins
road towards the village.

CHAPTER X.

A SUSPICIOUS VISIT — THE CAPTAIN STUDIES
THE CLOUDS.

When the captain left the shrubbery in
the last chapter, and proceeded across the
fields in the direction of the public road,
leading to the village of Ballydine, he
paused at the first hedge he had reached.
From this point he was enabled to take in
with his vision a large expanse of country
lying immediately beneath him, and
extending some miles down the Valley of
Orma. The Cross and Peter Mackey's
tavern lay in the immediate foreground;
Ash Grove House, the residence of the
Granvilles, rose majestically amid its
surrounding groves and bowers, at some
distance to his left; while Fairborough
Court, as the residence of Lord Fairborough

/

THE Granville. 237

was styled, with its magnificent park, and
embellishments of wood and water, shone
out in the meridian splendour some two
miles or more down in the bosom of the
vale. Castle Whitmore, and one or two
other imposing residences appeared on the
right, at distances varying from one to
two miles.

As the captain stood and swept with
his eyes this panorama of rural scenery,
his attention became fixed upon a particular
spot in the landscape. At a point
where the main avenue leading from Castle
Whitmore opened upon the public road
that wound down the vale towards the
town of Corrigcastle, he observed a
horseman moving with a slow pace up the
road leading to Bally dine.

At first, and for a few minutes he was
unable to form any conjecture as to the
individuality of this horseman ; and yet he
could not help thinking that there was
something in the outline of his figure that
resembled that hopeful personage, the
master of Castle Whitmore. There was,
it is true, a languid, drooping bearing

CHAPTER X.

A SUSPICIOUS VISIT — THE CAPTAIN STUDIES
THE CLOUDS.

When the captain left the shrubbery in
the last chapter, and proceeded across the
fields in the direction of the public road,
leading to the village of Ballydine, he
paused at the first hedge he had reached.
From this point he was enabled to take in
with his vision a large expanse of country
lying immediately beneath him, and
extending some miles down the Valley of
Orma. The Cross and Peter Mackey's
tavern lay in the immediate foreground;
Ash Grove House, the residence of the
Granvilles, rose majestically amid its
surrounding groves and bowers, at some
distance to his left; while Fairborough
Court, as the residence of Lord Fairborough

was styled, with its magnificent park, and
embellishments of wood and water, shone
out in the meridian splendour some two
miles or more down in the bosom of the
vale. Castle Whitmore, and one or two
other imposing residences appeared on the
right, at distances varying from one to
two miles.

As the captain stood and swept with
his eyes this panorama of rural scenery,
his attention became fixed upon a particular
spot in the landscape. At a point
where the main avenue leading from Castle
Whitmore opened upon the public road
that wound down the vale towards the
town of Corrigcastle, he observed a
horseman moving with a slow pace up the
road leading to Ballydine.

At first, and for a few minutes he was
unable to form any conjecture as to the
individuality of this horseman ; and yet he
could not help thinking that there was
something in the outline of his figure that
resembled that hopeful personage, the
master of Castle Whitmore. There was,
it is true, a languid, drooping bearing

his, " the times is stirring' times ; but sure,
maybe 'tis all for the better in the long
run. That's what myself always says to
my ould man. The houclialeehawn (White-boys)
is train' to do all they can for the
poor people ; and by all accounts, they'll
soon have the country free, and then,
maybe, we'll be as good as those that
have fine feathers. Oh yia ! they're the
dirty feathers, some of 'em ; " and she
laughed immoderately at her own sarcasm,
believing it effective in its degrading
power. She then went on, —

To be sure, fine feathers makes fine
birds ; but if every one had their own, I
wonder where would the feathers of half
of 'em be. I wonder who'd own Castle
Whitmore if right took place, and everyone
was where they ought to be ? He !
he ! he ! we know where some of 'em
ought to be ; and fine hot weather they'd
have there ; by my troth, hotter than 'tis
to-day, and 'tis hob enough, glory be to
God ! Myself don't wish no one any harm,
God forbid ! but every one ought to be
left their own. That's what I say, though

this ould fool of a man of mine says 'tis
all nonsense. But that's all he knows
about it. Not all the same as Paddy
Larkin. That's the known' knowledgeable
man, and there is not a boulder boy
among 'em all than his four bones. My
daughter Anty will be married to him,
please God, as soon as the country '11 be
free, and every one '11 have their own.
Then maybe she'll be able to carry as high
a head as any of 'em ; and why shouldn't
she ? Isn't she as good as any of 'em, or
their kith, kin, or generations ? What are
the, I'd like to know ? Lu-lu ! Lu-lu I
Cromwell's breed ! Where is their red,
wholesome Milesian blood, I'd like to
know ? A drop of it never ran in their
dirty veins, and why should it ? Did they
ever drink the wholesome breast ? did
they ever kneel down before the blessed
cross, and give themselves up to God ?
did they ever hear tell of St. Patrick ? did
they speak to Columkill or to St. Brigid ?
were they ever at the altar of God on
their bare knees offering a father an' ave
for the souls of the faithful departed ? did
u 2

they ever love their neighbours as they
ought to do ? did they behave like Christians
since they came among us ? Sure,
I'd Hke to hear tell of 'em coin' anything
at all like Christian people. But, no ;
they'd rather rob and plunder, and kill
and murder, and leave us bare and naked,
and bruised and bleeding on the ground ;
ay, on the blessed ground that St. Patrick
walked on, and drove all the saints faraway
from it. But sure, there's worse
saints on it, since the curse of Cromwell
and his marauding' breed fell down on it.
The Lord protect us," and she devoutly
marked the sign of the cross on her forehead
with her thumb.

'rand will Paddy Larkin and the
houchaleehaiun drive them all away, Moll ? "
asked the captain, in a half-dreamy tone
of voice.

They'll have a stroke for it anyway,"
was the reply ; " and there's those at the
head of 'em that'll finish it. But you're
as bad as my own ould man, in regard that
ye don't give in to what's going' on; but
maybe your eyes would be opened one of

these days, andtlien we'll believe it, maybe.
Paddy would me, unknown to the world,
that Counsellor Conned himself is at the
head of the business, and that every one
ought to do whatever he tells him. What
do you think of that, now?"

"I think," replied the captain, '' 'tis all
nonsense, Moll ; nothing more or nothing
less. And if you are going to give Anty
to Paddy Larkin, I would advise you to
make him keep clear of the houchaleehaiun,
and all such foolish people, if you can.
That's what I say, Moll."

'' Lu-lu ! lu-lu ! och ! By my troth,
Paddy Larkin would no more mind me, or
you either in regard of that, than he'd
mind the whistling' of the lunduv (blackbird).
He knows everything in regard of it
better than any of us, and why wouldn't
he, sure enough? Sure, he is hand in
glove with the great people that's carrying'
on the business, and maybe, for the matter
of that, with the Counsellor himself —
who knows ? Well, then, I'll tell you
what I'd like to come out of the business
first and foremost. I'd like that the

Granvilles would come by their own, that's
what I'd like. They were ever and always,
root and branch, the right sort ; they
never robbed any one of their rights ;
they never put the hard trial or the
hard word upon the poor people ; they
never turned any one out of house or
home, but helped and comforted 'em all the
same as if they were their own blood and
kin. Och, no ! the bit and the sup was
for every poor person that came to their
door, and the hungry and the naked were
covered and fed by 'em. Sure, 'tis a
wonder that God in Heaven ever let 'em
be brought down. And who did it all ?
Lu-lu! lu-lu! that hardhearted, slippery
'tourney from hell, Bartley Croker
of Gurtroo — Bartley the civil. God guard
and perfect us from all his sort," and here
she performed the operation of crossing her
forehead with her thumb, and curtseying
at the same time, as if to the Divinity in
the air; and then continued, " And there's
that bladders churl below at the castle,
Joe Whitmore ! Lu-lu ! lu-lu ! no wonder
for the country to be on the shaughraivn

(decline) when the likes of him have the
castles and the lands of the ould gentry of
the count hry. May the black curse attend
'em all, here and hereafter, if it be the will
of the Almighty. The hearts of the poor
people are scalded with 'em all. And you
and this ould fool of a man of mine to be
saying' 'tis foolishness to save the country
from 'em. Foolishness, indeed ! "

Just at this moment the captain saw Joe
Whitmore and Peter Mackey issue from
the tavern-door, and walk slowly down the
valley road ; while the little boy led Whit-more's
horse by the bridle close behind
them. He immediately withdrew a little
from the door, pushing back the chair
behind him, and stood by the four-pane
window which looked down upon the road.
Having stood here for about five minutes,
he wished Moll Dreelin a good-bye, and
walked out, directing his footsteps towards
the Cross. As soon as he had reached this
point, after a few minutes' slow, very slow
walk, he paused, as if undecided as to the
course he should adopt in reference to
something passing within his mind.

Having at length, come to a decision, lie
passed over to the road leading upwards
in the direction of Glen Corril, on one of
the slopes of which his own cottage was
situated. This road lay at nearly right
angles to that down which Whit more and
the tavern-keeper, Peter Mackey, had just
proceeded. Having strolled on for some
minutes along this road, pondering upon
the relations that might exist between the
two worthies aforesaid, and turning his
eyes occasionally in the direction they had
taken, he stopped suddenly, and wheeled
round. He saw them parting, and the
tavern-keeper retracing his steps towards
his own house. The captain, too, commenced
retracing his steps, saying to himself
at the same time, —

Now, I'll mark if he is anxious to seeme.
I won't pretend to notice him ; but
if it is as I think, he'll be glad to have a
chance of a talk with me, in order to probe
me about something. If he doesn't much
mind me, but goes in without asking mein
with him, why then, it can't be as I
suspect. — I'll soon see."

They both reached the Cross about the
same moment ; and as soon as Peter
Mackey observed the captain, he saluted
him with great apparent cordiality,
saying,—

*' It always does my eyes good, captain,
to see you : old neighbours and friends,
you know, like to see one another often,
and to have a chat about old times. How
does the world use you, my best of neighbours
? By Jingo ! we must have a drink
of something, the day is so warm. Come
in, man alive, come in."

'' Well, Mr. Mackey," replied the captain,
*' I believe there's no love lost between
us. Sure enough, we are old neighbours,
and friends too ; and, blow me, if ever yet
I renaigged a friend, whenever I found him
sound in the keel, and staunch along the
beam, as you are. 1 have no objection to
take a tumbler of beer this hot day."

'' Jingo there!" ejaculated Peter; " come
along then."

They both entered the shop together ; and
Peter having ordered the little boy behind
the counter to bring in a quart of beer, he

passed into the side door that opened into
a small private room at one end of the
shop. After the little boy had placed the
beer and two tumblers on a small table at
the lower extremity of the room, he retired ;
and Peter made fast the door behind him.
He then took a seat at the table, and
desiring the captain to take another, he
poured out the beer into the tumblers, and
commenced to speak in a very friendly and
confidential tone of voice. At first their
conversation was altogether directed to
observations on the weather and the crops ;
but after a brief interval, when these topics
appeared to be exhausted, Peter fell incidentally
into some trivial remarks on the
state of the country, and the prospects that
were held out for its improvement by the
agitators of the day.

You see, captain," observed Peter,
with a very trusting and, at the same time,
patriotic air, " the way it is with me. By
Jingo ! I never like to see the people kept
under : there is nothing like liberty of
speech, and liberty of conscience ; do you
mind me ? Because why ? the reason is
plain to be seen : if there's not liberty of

conscience, no man can serve bis country,
or save this soul either ; and if there's not
Liberty of speech, 'tis useless to have
liberty of conscience, because you can't say
what you think. That's my politics anyhow
; and I hope, Mr. John Gorman, my
old friend and co-patriot, that you and I
aofree in regard to that."

Here he looked vividly patriotic, clenching
his thick lips, squeezing the corners of
his eyes, and lifting up his nose parallel to
the ceiling.

'^ I again say," he continued, "that I
hope Mr. John Gorman and myself agree
in the one opinion," looking affectionately,
but at the same time with searching
acuteness, into the eyes of his companion.

The captain looked grave and reflective ;
but a close observer mio-ht mark a succession
twinkled, light, quick, and intelligent,
passing over the corners of his eyes. He
answered immediately, —

"Yes, Mr. Peter Mackey, you and I
steer the same course when the wind blows
abaft the binnacle, and no breakers ahead.
We are always on the look-out, keeping' our
eyes to inward. But if the wind should

veer, and the waves break to leeward, then
we might be obliged to part company, and
steer our crafts according to our best
judgment. As for the liberty of speech, I
don't think we have much reason to douse
our jib on that score ; the wind is fair and
jolly on that tack. And the liberty of
conscience lies almost in the same latitude ;
the only fault I myself find in regard of
that is, that the craft is rather free there —
a little thought free ; a little bracing up
would do no harm there, sometimes."

Peter did not appear quite at his ease
during these observations of the captain :
his nose seemed to grow redder and longer,
and his eyes to contract, and glance back
towards his poll. However, he was determined
to make another move ; and therefore
he smacked his lips, and looked
exceedingly complaisant.

There's no man in the country," he
observed, 'Td trust before yourself in
regard of a good heart for the cause of the
people. You always stuck to the Counsellor,
the liberator, I mean, like a man ;
and helped to send the word around
whenever he wanted the people to show

themselves to their enemies. That's the
chat, by Jingo ! A man's a man, if he
wasn't worth a penny. That's what I say."

This was coming to close quarters, and
the captain waited the advance of his
antagonist with caution.

"No doubt of it," Mr. Mackey, "the
liberator understands the sailing of the
craft as well as any man that ever stood
on the quarter-deck. He has a bright eye.
and a clear head ; and if the ship should
come athwart a stiff breeze, with breakers
on the lee, 'twould not be his fault if she
went wrestling among 'em. He never
runs up the wrong channel, but keeps in
deep water until the tide offers ; and then
he runs up brisk and tight, and casts a
safe anchor in port. Xo better navigator
than the liberator, I 'gree with you. You
see, Mr. Peter Mackey, that you and I
always agree in most things, especially in
jwUticsJ'

Peter was somewhat disconcerted; he
now found that he must advance on more
open ground, and disengage himself from
his mask sufficiently to obtain the information
he sought. He accordingly shifted

ground; and addressing himself to the
consideration of the various chances of
Fortune as exemplified in scil as rose or
fell within the circle of their acquaintance,
he observed, —

"And there's old Mr. Granville ; who'd
have thought, a few years ago, that things
would turn out with him as they did ? By
jingo ! he was a noble gentleman : one of
the real sort, too. I wonder what is
Master Herbert going to do? I don't know
any young gentleman in the country round,
that has more of the sound metal in him
than his four bones. "Whisper, captain,"
and here he bent forward, and placing his
lips close to the captain's ear, the red nose
appearing doubled by its pressure against
the captain's head, " lie is just the young
gentleman to lead the boys on a jpinch.^^

He then drew himself back ; and looked
into the captain's eyes with an intensity oE
gaze that was intended to search his very
soul. The captain reeled for a moment ;
but he shortly recovered himself, and
observed, —

'' Poor old Mr. Granville was a noble-hearted

gentleman, no doubt ; but you see,
Mr. Mackey, lie was too generous ; lie
allowed too many interlopers on board;
and the sea stock ran out before the voyage
was over. His son is a fine and brave
young gentleman, too ; and a Granville to
the backbone in everything that's true and
honourable. And the man or boy that'll
be led by him, will be neither a fool nor a
rogue. He knows what is just and fair,
and he'll never shrink from doing it ; he
knows, too, what is wrong, and mean, and
foolish; and no living power on earth will
force him to do it. That's who Master
Herbert Granville is. He is a man that
can stand on the quarter-deck, and by his
knowledge, and speech, and conduct, be a
credit to the squadron."

'' Look now, captain," said Peter, coming
at length to the point, '' will you tell me —
can you tell me, if Master Herbert is joined
in that noble association that's got up for
the freedom of the country? — long life to it,
and long may it flourish in strength and
activity — is he joined in that f — the noble
association of the TV^hite^et ! "

The captain lead him imparted at last.
It was precisely what he had expected.
He answered briefly, —

I don't think that Master Herbert
Granville knows more about the Whitefeet
than I do ; and all that I know about themis,
that they are as likely to free, or to
serve Ireland in any way, as so many
school-boys armed with bullrushes. More
than that, I believe that they don't know
themselves what they are doing ; or how
to do anything even if they were called out
to do it. Peter Mackey, answer me this —
who told you that Master Herbert was
joined with the Whitefeet? for some one
must have told you so, or you would not
ask me that question. — Who told you,
Peter Mackey ? "

Peter winced at this question; but his
resources were too many to suffer him to
be discomfited.

By Jingo, captain, that's a queer question
for you to ask me ; sure and certain
you must know that a noble, dashing, high-spirited
young gentleman couldn't stand
by and see his country suffering without

striking a blow for lier. By Jingo, when
you and I were young like him, we
wouldn't grudge lending a hand, if things
turned up, and the country was in need of
it ; and when the likes of us would do it,
surely we'd expect that a young gentleman
with the highest blood in the country in
his veins wouldn't begrudge showing himself
in the noble cause."

The captain had all the advantage on
his side now ; but he pressed his antagonist
no further. He had all the information he
could require. It was quite clear to him
that Joe Whitmore desired to have some
charge of a political nature trumped up
against Herbert, no matter how slight the
foundation on which it stood ; and that he
had employed Peter Mackey to assist him
in this villainous enterprise. The captain,
therefore, concluded that it was better not
to refer to Whitmore ; but to keep him off
his guard in the progress of his design, in
order that he (the captain) might thus bethe
better able to counteract his schemes,
and to protect his young friend against
them. He, therefore, contented himself

VOL. I. X

with merely observing, in reply to the last
observations of his companion, that, —

Master Herbert has noble blood in his
veins, no doubt, but that is the very reason
that he will never do anything — that he is
not capable of doing anything — that would
bring shame or disgrace on his name. If
his country demands his assistance, that
assistance he will surely give by upright
and honourable means ; and not by treachery
or folly. And I believe that it would
be both treachery and folly to join any
society that works in the dark, and that
is only making things worse than they
are."

Peter finding that he could obtain no
information such as would be conducive to
the views of his employer, dropped the
subject, and reverted to the weather and
the crops, with an evident desire to withdraw
from the company of the captain for
the present. The captain seeing this, rose
and took leave of his companion, wishing
him all manner of success in his patriotic
intentions for the liberation of Ireland.

Having passed out, his first thought was

to call upon Herbert, with the view of
informing him of what had transpired
between himself and the tavern-keeper.
He accordingly walked in the direction of
Ash Grove for some minutes, but remembering
that that gentleman had gone only
an hour or two before for a walk to the
Druid's Glen, and that it was not probable
he had yet returned, he paused, and began
to cast about him for some other plan of
operation, when the thought struck him
that he should call upon his friend, Denny
Mullins, the piper, and concoct with him
some plan, the seeds of which were beginning
to germinate in his mind.

It will be remembered that the residence
of the piper lay on one side of Glen Corril,
that glen on the opposite side of which the
Glazement was situated ; the former domicile
being however nearer to the village
than the latter.

The captain, therefore, proceeded up the
Ash Grove road, that is, the mountain road
which led on to one side of the demesne of
Brookfield Hall ; and having reached that
point in the road where a passage opened

across the fields towards the rear of the
Hall, he turned in here, and pursued his
way across the fields a little higher up than
the line which he followed on two or three
former occasions when we have observed
him passing from the Hall to the village.
By this course he was enabled to strike
out on the farm road above the shrubbery
in the rear of the Hall. From this point
he pursued his way across the rising ground
in the direction of Glen Corril, keeping
still alone the swell of the hill and skirting:
the grove which crowned its summit. His
design was to drop down upon Denny's
residence, instead of climbing up to it,
which he should have to do if he had taken
the road through the Glen. But just ashe
had passed the lower extremity of the
mountain grove and was about to turn his
steps downwards to the Glen, he espied
Denny approaching him from below, with
his pipes, tucked in their green bag, under
his arm.

END or VOL. I.

v-^

OF THE

UN IVLR5ITY

Of ILLINOIS

SJ.2. ^

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/granvillesirisht02talb

Sw Irish Mt,

BT

THE Hon. THOMAS TALBOT.

IX THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. 11.

Sampson LOW, Marston, SEARLE, & RIVIXGTOX,

CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET.

1882.

[All 7'igJits reserved

PRINTED BY GILBERT AND lilVINGTON, LIIVTITED,

ST. JOHN'S SQFAEE.

V.2. (f

CONTENTS.

PAGE

Chapter 'X., — continued) 1

CHAPTER XI.
A Charge of Tactics — The Yibttje of

Patience 18

CHAPTER XII.

A Feiexdlt Call — Irish Politics . . 51

CHAPTER Xii

Paddy Laekin has k^ I:j^teeyiew with the
General of the Whitefeet — Various
Plain's proposed, aid Propositions

ilADE 113

CHAPTER XIV.

The Earl axd Countess of Faieboroogh —
They take a deep Interest in the
Fortunes of Herbert Glanville . .177

CHAPTER XV.

PAGE

Paddy Larkix holds a Council of Wae
Oppositions of Yieavs — The Rising
postponed 223

CHAPTER XVL

An Unexpected Meeting — Partridge Shooting
255

CHAPTER X. (continued).

The captain awaited Denny's approach,
throwing himself amid the fern at the
bottom of a ditch close to which he saw his
friend would have to pass. He had been
scarcely a quarter of an hour in waiting
when the piper crossed the ditch, and met
his gaze.

*' Ship, ahoy! whither bound?" exclaimed
the captain, as the piper jumped
over the ditch a little beyond him.

'' Hurroo-o-o," responded Denny, as he
took off his felt hat, and waved it in the
air.

"What's stirring', captain, achra ? any
wedding', or hauling' home, or christening', or

VOL. II. B

long dance? — Oculi, but sure it's not the
season for wedclin's anyhow''

As the piper thus ran over his gamut
of familiar scenes of professional engagements,
the captain had risen to his legs,
and beckoned to him to follow him. He
then led the way up the side of the hill,
entering the lover part of the grove
already mentioned, and pressing through
the shrub and underwood, until he reached
a secluded spot, which, though surrounded
by lofty trees and thick tangled shrub on
three sides, commanded on the remaining
side a most picturesque view of a portion
of the Yale of Orma. Here they sat down
upon a couch composed of fern and tall
grass, the piper placing his green bag by
his side, and his felt hat upon one of his
knees.

"Denny," commenced the captain after
they had rested awhile, " that's a fine
valley and fair to be seen," pointing down
the Yale of Orma.

You may say that," was the rejoinder,
where, in the world's journey, could it
be beat ? I never seen the like in all my
travels, anyhow."

'well, I suppose you didn't: but your

travels were not very remarkable for
difference of latitude, or of longitude
either. You never crossed the line,
Denny."

Why, no ; I'd be long sorry to go
where he is. I hear tell of him ; and
that's enough for me. Paddy Larkin
would me he seen him in Cushport when
he was there last winter. He was
crossing the bridge when he first seen him
coming' along in a big coach, as big as a
barn. I never hear the like as he would
me about him. The Lord help us ! they
say there's no end of 'em in the country
they call Afrikee : so Paddy Larkin would
me, and he knows everything because he's
joined in the 'Sociation with O'Connel
himself. He is a wonderful knowledi'-eable
man. They say he's going' to be married
to Anty Dreelin, ould Xed Dreelin's
daughter at the Cross. They say the
ould man is against it, because for why ?
You see he don't much Hke Paddy, because
he's in the 'Sociation. He is a
solid 'cute ould man : but, Moll ! — he-e-e !
he-e-e ! Oh, murder an' agers ! she'd
put her eyes on Pippins to see Anty and
himself married ; she is a real trump ; and

'ud die blood to the eyes for the Bouchalee-
hawna^

Denny," interrupted the captain, " you
are talking of one thing, and I am talking
of another. You are talking of wild
beasts : but I am talking of the equator.
Do you understand ? "

Oh, ho ! " ejaculated Denny, " now T
have you. The 'quethur ; aye ! aye ! that's
the word, I remember now. Didn't Paddy
Larkin sack Jim Cokely, the schoolmaster,
with that very same word. This is the
way it was ; they were drinking' together
at Peter Mackey's at the Cross, of a
funeral day, and the house was full of
people : howsoever, the argument roseat
ween 'em, and all the people in the
tap-room gathered round 'em ' Come,'
says Paddy, — ' come Mr. Cokely,' says he,
how do you draw your 'quatuor from
that to that,' drawn' his finger at the
same minute with the beer that was spilt
on the table — drawn' his finger in a
straight line across. Begot, Cokely was
unbounded, and he never opened his
mouth, but every one that was there gave
it in favour of Paddy Larkin ; and said
that Cokely was sacked. You never bear

scil cheering' in all your born days, and
every one drank to Paddy : — 'twas I drink
to you, Paddy, here, and I drink to you
Paddy, there; until, by shakes, if he
could hould as much as a puncheon, they'd
fill him up to the lips with as fine drinking
as ever moistened a man's whistle. That's
the way it was. And then, after he came
out, nothing' 'ud do the boys but to carry
the noble Paddy on their shoulders,
shouting and hurrying, up to ould Ked
Dreelin's door. And to see Moll ! hee-e-e !
hee-e-e ! Och, tare an' agers ! and her
two arms swung up in the air, and her
mouth open as wide as a skilled, hurrying
for the bare life."

*' Denny," said the captain, '' do you
know what is troubling me now ? "

*' Troth, I don't, captain ; and more
than that, I'd be sorry to have care or
trouble fall on you, or on any one belonging'
to you. Och, marine ! sure
there's grief and sorrow enough in the
world, to leave you alone now. You had
sorrow enough, in your early days, God
help us ! but maybe 'tis the will of God,
blessed be His holy name for ever and
ever : — sure enough, He knows what's
good for us."

"No, Denny, 'isn't that; I have other
trouble, not my own."

'' Och, God help ns ! share enough, 'tis
other people cause the most of our trouble.
That's the way 'twas wit myself often
enough. And what might it be, captain,
ashore''

Look here, now, Denny ! I'm trying
to study the clouds. And I am troubled
about what's in 'em. Stop, and listen tome
now. I said that that down there
is a fine valley, and fair to look at : and
so it is ; but, Denny, there are serpents
hiding in the bosom of it. Yes, serpents
worse than those that St. Patrick banished
out of the country dien he first slanted
the Saviour's cross on its hills and valleys.
They are serpents in human shape and
form ; and black and deadly is the poison
in their sting. Some people look very
smooth and smiling ; but their hearts areas
rough and as wicked as their master,
the devil, can make them."

Here Denny crossed his forehead with
his thumb and sighed deeply, muttering at
the same time some prayers between his
teeth, which began to chatter, but the
captain continued, —

"Yes, what I say is true. Do you
know that some of 'em down there are
laying snares to transport, or hang, maybe,
Master Herbert Granville."

Och, murther ! murther ! " exclaimed
Denny.

Listen to me, now, and never mind
saying' anything 'till I'm done," continued
the captain. " I needed tell you, who know
it as well as any man, that Joe Whitmore
is a spawn of hell, and that Peter Mackey
is a conniving' thief that 'ud rob a church
if he could do it without being seen — aye,
rob a church, indeed ! — he'd sell our
Saviour, like Judas Iscariot, if his fist was
greased."

'* Och, marcy on our sovvds, and the
so wis of the faithful departed. Och !
murther, murther," exclaimed Denny
again, unable to restrain the awful feelings
that agitated him.

'well," proceeded the captain, "they
want to murther Master Herbert between
'em. But I must study the clouds ; and
you must help me to save the innocent.
Denny, when a big black cloud hangs
over your head, like a bare, dark mountain
turned upside down, and when it looks

like fallen' on the ground ; there's thunder
and lighten' in that, and rain, and wind,
maybe. When it isn't too big, nor too
Hack, but streaks of white, like sheep's
dirty wool, running' through it, and it
stands high up in the sky, there's only
wind in it, maybe ; and may be a spatter
of rain. And suppose, there's a little
cloud, about the size of the palm of your
hand, but black and dirty, wheeling' here
and wheeling' there, there's nothing in
that when you see it first, but wait awhile,
and maybe., it would grow bigger and
bigger, until in the long-run, it would
burst over your head, and, maybe, drive
the lightning spinning through your heart.
What do you say to that ? "

God atween us, and all harm," replied
Denny, "how was it with Dan
Trace, when he was crossing' the Spoiler
hills, in the middle of the day, coming'
home from Nancy Daly's wedding' and the
pipes under his arm, and he thinking' of
nothing ? he got one slap of lighten' in
the face, that sent him tumbling down the
hill, till he was pitched into Simon Duv's
cabin, through the sods on the roof, and
stretched in the pigs' trough. And he'd

never taste a morsel of God's bread only
for Nell took him up, and rubbed this
breast, and put a trifle of spirits down this
throat, and then, maybe, he came to his
senses ; and told how it happened. And
did the lighten' strike Master Herbert
yet? Oh, John Gorman, John Gorman!
for the love of the good God above us,
keep Master Herbert from hurt and
harm ; from thunder and lighten', and
from rain and wind. His father, and his
grandfather 'before him, stood to my
father and grandfather when the dark
night overtook 'em in the troubled times.
God be merciful to all their souls now,
and for ever and ever. Amen. I pray.
And there's Master Herbert himself, the
true blood of the Granvilles, standing',
or walking', day, or night, he is the rale
gentleman, always ready and willing' to help
man, woman, or child, who is in want or
trouble. There's goodness in his heart,
there's music on his tongue ; and there's
luck and grace wherever he puts his foot.
Save him — oh — John Gorman ! save the
noble branch of the ould noble Granville
stock : — save him from thunder and
lighten', save him from wind and rain,

save him from this enemies, here, and
hereafter: — and here I am," (he rose
from the ground as he spoke, and turned
up the cuffs of his coat sleeves, as if in
the act of preparing to strike some
assailant) " and here I am, Denny
MuUins, from Glen Corril. ready to stand
to your back, against any man that dare
to rise a hand against the Granvilles of
Ashgrove ; and over and above all, against
Master Herbert, the heart's blood of
true honour. Come, John Gorman ! " and
he waved one of his arms aloft — " come
I say — lead the way — slioiii me the man
that offers to lay a finger on Master
Herbert, and I'll slioio him that Denny
Mullins of Glen Corril has a heart in his
body and blood in his veins. Come on,
follow me, John Gorman :" and he sprang
forward between the trees, brandishing
his arms, and crying out, ' Granville hoo,
Granville hoo ! ' "

The captain raised himself calmly from
the ground, and walking towards the piper,
said, —

Denny ! sit down here again, and
listen to what I have to say to you, and
when you've heard it, keep it close in

your mind, until the time for action comes.
Come, sit down here now."

The piper immediately grew calm, and
resumed this seat, while the captain thus
went on, —

'*i\ow, Joe Whitmore,"— (" Oh, bad luck
to him," interjected Denny) — " I say, Joe
AYhitmore wants to make out thatMasther
Herbert is joined with the Whitefeet, —
you know the Whitefeet are a foolish set
of young men who are joined together by
secret oaths to free Ireland, as they say.
And they go about by night, taking firearms
out of the houses of the gentry by
force ; and persuading the innocent people
that 'tis O'Connel that appointed them for
this work. Well, a great many join their
ranks who fancy that it is for the good of
the country they're doings this. And the
farmers and other well-to-do people don't
like to meddle with 'em, but let 'em
pass. But the farmers suffer a great deal
of loss by them ; for they take the horses
out of the fields, or stables at night, and
ride 'em about for scores of miles through
the country in their patriotic expeditions,
as they call their idle vagabond business.
Sometimes they send 'em back after two

or three clays, or more, maybe, half
starved, or crippled. And sometimes there
is never any tale or tidings of 'em. They
take poultry, and sheep, too ; to eat at
their nightly meetings on the hills. But
sure, I needn't tell you, how it is : you
know all about it, sure everybody knows
it, and honest people know it to their grief.
Well, if any of those are caught committing
depredations, or maybe, murder, they'll
be tried, and maybe hanged, but transported
at least : and it isn't those alone
who are caught in the fact that'll suffer :
but every one who is proved to be joined
with 'em ; and the higher they are, the
heavier the band the Government will lay
on 'em. Do you see? Well now ; Whit-more
is trying to make out that Master
Herbert is joined with 'em. And he has
that Devil's nut, Peter Mackey in co.
with him, invention' and finding' out all he
can. There's the cloud. 'Tis a little
cloud now, and no more than the size of
the palm of your hand, but it will grow,
maybe, and we must watch it. Now,
there's Paddy Larkin, he's a poor slow of
a boy with, an honest heart, but a foolish
head. He wouldn't see a hair hunted on

Master Herbert's head, and he hasn't
love or skin' for Whitmore, or for Peter
Mackey either. Well, lie is joined in this
business ; and he might be put on his
guard against the schemes of those two
imps of Beelzebub in regard of Master
Herbert. You'll do that. But you must do
another thing. You must put Whitmore on
the wrong scent, if he ever speaks to you
about this business : which he is like to do,
some time or other, when you're plain'
for him down at the Castle. So that when
he is setting' his trap for Master Herbert,
you can make him set it, maybe, where
himself '11 walk into it, instead of the man
he wants to catch. Do you mind me now ? "

Denny, who sat all this time with his
chin resting on the palm of his left hand,
while he kept pulling up tufts of grass,
and casting them into the air w4tli the
other hand, looked up at the captain, with
a twist in his mouth, and one eye firmly-closed,
as if labouring in the solution of
the problem before him, said slowly and
deliberately, —

John Gorman, I'm close to five-and-forty
years in this blessed world, and I
never yet met a man, woman, or child that

I'd wish to hurt or harm, but if Joe
Whit more or Peter Mackey touches a
hair on Master Herbert's head, I swear
by the sun that's shining' above me, and
by all the hills and streams that was
blessed by the holy St. Patrick, I'll have
their lives, or they'll have mine. That's
what I say, John Gorman."

"Be easy, Denny! don't talk rashly,"
said the captain, '' we don't want any man's
life. What we want is to save life, not to
take it away. Denny, you know that
every man's life belongs to God who made
us all ; and that we have no more right to
take it or to injure it than we have to do
anything else that's forbidden by the laws
of God. But if any man tries to take away
the life of another, we are bound to do our
best to prevent it ; and to prevent it, too,
at the risk of losing our own, or of, maybe,
destroying' the life of him who tries to doit.
If we can prevent hurt or harm to
Master Herbert, without coin' hurt or
harm to any one else, well and good ; but
if we are hard set to defend him ; and that
all comes to all, then if others come by
harm, we can't help it. But we must be
on our guard. We are weak, our enemies

are strong : and 'tis nothing new to ns in
this unfortunate old country of ours, that it
isn't the right that's always uppermost.
That's the reason that we must be on our
guard ; and take care to have everything
straight and fair, at any rate, on our side.
So, now, the next time that you're plain'
your pipes at ^Yhitmore's at the Castle,
keep your eyes and your ears about you,
and let nothing pass without noticing' it.
And if he speaks to you about the Bouche
; or about Master Herbert, mind
not to let any word sip that'd give him
any advantage. And bring everything tome
that'll happen. That's what I wanted
to speak to you about : so now you'll
know how to behave. But where are you
going this evening with your pipes ? "

Down to Sycamore Lodo-e, to Sir
Michael Carey's," answered the piper,
he sent for me in the morning', and his
orders were that I was to be down at half-past
seven in the evening' to play for him
in the lodge. I believe there's a couple
of strange gentlemen there from England,
or some place ; and he want's to divert 'em
a bit. A good gentleman he is ; and
sound to the backbone, he is none of your

upstart slioneens that'd trample on the
poor people, and grudge a man fair play :
och, no such tiling ; but a comely, upright,
gentleman, with a good will for every one,
and a heart in his body as straight as my
chanter. Now, John Gorman, 'tis time
for me to be going'. I have three good
miles before me; and by the time I'm
over 'em 'twill be late enough."

Will you pass by the Cross on your
way down ? " asked the captain.

'tis the straightest road I can make,"
was the reply, '' but I was thinking' in the
morning' to call into Brookfield Hall, on my
way down, to play a couple of tunes for
Mrs. Moore and the ladies ; but I'm afraid
now 'twill be too late on me."

"Because," said the captain, ''if you
passed by the Cross, you might meet with
Peter Mackey, and he might be trying topick
some knowledge out of you about
what we were speaking' on ; but you understand
now how to meet him yard-arm to
yard-arm. Give the sleeve no hold of
you ; but tack, and bear dowai on his
quarter; and then board him, pike in
hand."

Och, leave the shake to me," replied

Denny, " and I'll serve him as Nick
Dumpling served the eel, — I'll tie him round
mj leg for a farther ; and when I'm tired
of him that way, I'll make lungs out of him
for my brogues ; hee-e-e ! hee-e-e ! "

Now," said the captain, springing to his
legs, 'i'll not delay you any longer. I must
go across to my own place, and see how
the craft lies there. After that, maybe,
I'll call down to Ashgrove ; but I'm not
sure. Grod's blessing' with you, Denny."

The same to you, captain," was the
reply, and the two friends parted, each towards
his own destination.

VOL. ir.

CHAPTER XL

A CHANGE OF TACTICS — THE VIRTUE OP
PATIENCE.

When Fanny Moore parted form her lover
on the mountain road, she passed, as we
have stated, into the fields on the slope of
the mountain spur, or hill, above her own
residence, and descended in a zisfzao^ line
towards the rear of the Hall. Having
reached the eastern boundary of the shrubbery,
she passed round by the farmyard,
and came out upon the lawn in front of the
mansion. Having advanced some hundred
yards under the shade of the trees which
fringed the side of the lawn, and as she
approached the hall-door, she heard a
strain of exquisite melody proceeding from
the drawing-room, the windows of which
were raised. She approached nearer, and
listened; and immediately recognized the

voice of Julia Granville, mingled with the
notes of the piano. She felt a thrill of
gladness pervading her bosom ; and she
hastened to meet her friend. As she
stepped gaily into the room, she saw Miss
Granville at the piano, and her own brother,
Harry Moore, standing by her side. She
was singing the following air : —

What would be this world if Friendship's bright ray
Had not sprinkled its light on our pathway along ? —
Like the gloom that impends on the footsteps of day;
Like the feast enlivened by laughter and song.

All-cheerless and hopeless, desponding, noblest

Oar days would be draped in the gloom of despair ;

And our hearts, vaguely dreaming of heaven and
rest,

Would falter, and doubt e'en of happiness there.

But thrill'd by the voice of Affection, we feel
Released from the burden that erewhile perplex'd
Our thoughts and our feelings j which straightway

reveal
The blessings of this life, — the joys of the next.

Then give me but Friendship, bright-beaming

and pure.
In the bond of Affection by heaven made fast ;
And whate'er may befall, this fond heart shall

endure
Its trials and its troubles, — still blest to the last.

Miss Granville immediately sprang from
the piano upon seeing Fanny, and the two

friends became locked in each other's
embrace. Then followed expressions of
mutual joy and delight, uttered with as
much zeal and tenderness as if they had
been separated for months, and had now
met ao;ain for the first time. Nor was their
enthusiastic greeting the effect of mere
conventional usage, a ceremony gone
through in conformity with any established
rules of polite social intercourse ; of course,
it was the reverse of all this ; but it was a
greeting in conformity with the ardent
impulses of two young and innocent hearts
who tenderly loved each other, and who
would not be restrained by any social
formality from expressing, both in word
and act, the deep loving impulses that
ruled them. And what is there in the
whole circle of social life more beautiful,
more edifying than this concurrence of
gentle feeling swaying and elevating the
hearts and dispositions of the young and
the innocent ? And in this particular, in
the free and glowing current of the affections,
where friendship, and gentleness,
and love are borne along in the sunshine
of truth, and confidence, and sincerity, the
country life may be fairly regarded as

possessing superior advantages to that of
the city. Everything tends to the creation
and growth of those advantages. The sun,
the air, the sky, the landscape are so many
elements in the production of that condition
of high-toned feeling which gives strength
and vivacity to the moral virtues, and
elevates the soul to the loftiest region of
generous thought and action. It is, as it
were, God's immediate presence, breathing
love into the hearts of His creatures, and
inspiring them with lofty and holy
thoughts. Everything in the country
speaks of the Creator's love and goodness,
as well as of His power and majesty.
And when the heart is open to the influences
naturally springing from those grand
and loving manifestations of the Creator's
power and goodness, it cannot but be
elevated, enlarged, and purified ; as well
as directed in its pulsations to the observance
and active exercise of those moral
virtues impressed upon it by the hand of
nature.

The life of a city is, in a great measure,
shut out from this influence of Nature's
works. It is a life more impressed by the
actions and machinations of man, than by

the works and inspiration of God. And
it is on that account, less capable of lifting
the soul to the higher sphere of thought,
where a brighter world meets its view, and
where it feels the atmosphere of its native
home. Few, indeed, are the who are not
depressed in their nobler impulses by the
constant contact with city life ; whose
feelings are not warped and weakened by
its unhealthy influences ; and who can lift
themselves above the level of its grovelling
pursuits. The atmosphere, the dailj^
operations of trade and commerce, and the
ideas and practices inseparable from them,
are influences unfavourable to the growth
and permanent strength of the moral
virtues. The soul is made to shrink, as it
were, within itself.

We have been drawn into these observations
by the play of generous feeling which
took place between Fanny Moore and her
friend Julia Granville. They were both
children of the country. They had
imbibed its elevating influence from their
cradle ; and they exhibited in their feelings
and manners its purity and sweetness.

Their meeting on this occasion was the
mere result of accident. It was brought

about in this way. After breakfast on that
nioniing Harry Moore had determined to
go out for a day's angling, provided he
could get Herbert Granville to join him.
AYith that view he busied himself for an
hour after breakfast in preparation for the
day's sport; after which he sauntered
across the fields to Ashgrove to see
Herbert, and to induce him to join him.
Herbert, however, was not to be seen ; as
our readers are aware that about that time
he had wandered away from home, and was
strolling along by the hedges in the direction
of Brookfield Hall, with his book under
his arm; over the pages of which he now
and then lingered as he chanced to pass by
a high and shaded hedge on his way. So
that by the time Harry had reached the
lawn before Ashgrove House, Herbert was
crossing the rustic wall which divided the
farm road in the rear of Brookfield Hall,
from the shrubbery where he and the captain
had held their interview. When,
therefore, Harry had inquired for his
friend, he was informed by the servant that
he had gone out some time ago, and that
he could not tell him at what time he was
likely to return.

Just at this moment Miss Julia Granville
happened to be crossing the hall on her
way from the parlour to the drawing-room,
attired in such a manner as indicated her
intention of going abroad to enjoy the
sweetness of the morning. It is needless
to say that they were mutually rejoiced at
the accidental meeting ; for they had long
entertained somewhat more than ordinary
feelings of friendship for each other.
Harry and herself passed into the drawing-room
; and after a brief conversation there
they agreed to take a walk together through
the fields, Harry giving up his intended
arrangement as to the angling excursion,
in the absence of Herbert. They accordingly
sallied forth into the beautiful sunshine,
chatting gaily, as they went, upon
various topics, of trivial import, as they
bore upon general interest, but exceedingly
interesting to themselves inasmuch
they touched upon those chords of feeling
around which their special world revolved.

Thus eno^ao;ed in sweet and thrilling:
converse they crossed over the Ashgrove
demesne and passed out into the country
beyond, through a turnstile in the descend
wall. They continued their walk by the

lanes and hedges of the neighbouring
farms, until they came to the village or
rather the Cross of Ballydine, when they
turned their steps up the mountain road,
leading by the demesne of Brookfield Hall.
They passed into the demesne ; and soon
to the lawn, until they at length found
themselves in the drawing-room of the
Hall. Fanny Moore was absent, as our
readers are aware ; but her piano was open,
and so Julia Granville, at the request of
Harry, sat down by it, and ran her fingers
over its keys. After a short prelude she
commenced an air, and thus broke into that
soft and touching melody, which came so
sweetly upon the ears of Fanny Moore as
she had approached the hall-door on her
return from the Druid's Glen.

After the affectionate and joyous
embrace of the two friends, to which we
have alluded, and during which Harry
Moore appeared not a little amused, as well
as pleased, they both sat down together
upon a couch, Fanny's arm round the
Avast of her friend, and commenced chatting
about the fields, and the flowers, and
similar topics, which naturally suggested
themselves under the circumstances of the

moment. We must here take notice that
Mrs. Moore and Mrs. C redan had not yet
returned from their morning visits, and
that Mr. Moore had rode down a few hours
before to the town of Corrigcastle to attend
a sitting of Petty Sessions, and was still
absent ; so that the house was altogether
in the keeping of our three young friends,
and the servants.

'• I think we should contrive to manage
our domestic concerns well enough, even
if sole occupants of the place," observed
Harry in reply to an observation of Fanny
relative to the absence of the heads of the
family ; " I dare say it will be the case one
time or other, unless some of us pass away
from the world before the usual time for
such emigration. What do you say, Miss
Granville?"

'* Oh, I am sure I should be very sorry
to lose Mr. and Mrs. Moore : I hope they
will not die for long years to come,"
answered Miss Granville.

"I do not think I could live after papa
and mamma. I hope they will not die
while I live," observed Miss Moore, with
an air of confident security, as though dying
in the case of the persons alluded to was a

tiling simply out of the category of ordinary
events.

'' 'Tis a sad thing to lose one's father,"
said Miss Granville, with a low, trembling
accent, and a slight shudder : '^ but we
must be reconciled, under all changes and
privations, to the will of God."

Dear Julia," exclaimed Fanny, pressing
closer to her friend, and placing her cheek
upon hers, '' dear Julia, God has indeed
laid a heavy hand upon your family. There
are some bad people in the world ; and
those cause a great deal of sorrow and
suffering to others who have done nothing
to deserve them, but who, on the contrary,
have merited well of all within their circle
and influence. And what sometimes appears
strange to me is, that God permits
such people to do all this wrong, and to goon
at the same time prospering as if they
were doing good instead of harm. But all
this is a mystery : God alone knows what
is best for us."

Julia listened to her friend, a light cloud
of sadness passing over her brow, which
she in vain endeavoured to conceal ; for
as Fanny concluded her remarks, a tear
stole down the cheek of her friend, and

moistened lier own. Harry, too, became
evidently affected, for lie rose from his seat,
and walked towards one of the windows
that looked out upon the lawn, saying, as
lie did so, —

*' I wonder what is keeping my father so
long at the Sessions Court, he should be
here before this."

The two young ladies then spoke
together for a few minutes, after which
they rose, and joined Harry at the window,
Fanny saying, —

*' It is a pity to be indoors so delightful
an evening ; let us go out on to the lawn."

They accordingly left the room, and
walked out in the beautiful sunshine that
was flooding: with its soft radiance the
flowers, and trees, and velvet grass ; and
making shadows over the lawn where the
large elms extended their spreading
branches. The evening was peaceful and
inviting ; and they walked along until they
reached the lower gate which opened from
the public road into the long avenue that
wound up through the grounds adjoining
the lawn. As they reached this gate they
saw a woman in a blue hooded cloak and
red head-dress coming up the road from

the direction of the village ; after a brief
observation Harry recognized her as Xellj
Corkoraii, the captain's cousin and housekeeper.
As soon as she observed them at
the gate, she hastened her pace, and soon
reached the spot where they were standing.
She curtsied low to the ladies, and then to
Harry, saying that she was glad she met
them, as she had intended to go up to the
Hall to tell them that Mr. and Mrs. Moore
and Mrs. Credan had gone up to Whitmore
Castle with Mr. Whitmore, whom they had
met on their way home. She was at the
Castle herself, and as she met them on her
way from it about two hours ago, they told
her to call, and to tell the family at the
Hall that they would not be home as soon
as they had intended, as they were going
to remain for a short time at Castle Whit-more.


"How does honest Joe look, Nelly?"
asked Harry in a tone of sarcastic humour,
which Nelly was not slow to observe.

In troth, your honour, he was lookin
the same as ever, and that's not much to
say for him. Och, 'tis easy known' who
is a gentleman, and who is not," was
Nelly's reply.

'' You must not lessen Mr. Whitmore in
the presence of the ladies here," said Harry.

God forbid that either of the ladies
here should have share or part with the
likes of Mm. 'T would be the sore day for
the country, and for the poor people, when
the Whitmore breed would be mixed with
the rale gentry ; I'd like to hear tell of it
indeed ! No ! no ! Miss Fanny and Miss
Julia will be married, please Grod, to those
that's desarvin' of 'em, and that they
needn't be ashamed to mix their blood
with. They can hold up their heads ; and
marry their own equals in character and
family; and rear up their children to be a
blessing' and an ornament to the country ;
not all as one as to have Joe Whitmore
tied to 'em, who has neither family, nor
blood, nor conduct, nor sense to make any
woman care about him, let alone real, born
ladies. Oh, the Lord preserve us from
the like o' that, Joe Whitmore indeed."

And here she laughed very heartily,
casting, at the same time, an intelligent
glance at Miss Moore.

And now," she resumed, directing her
words to Miss Granville, '' by-and-by,
please God, when yourself and Master

Harry here Trill be living' together up at the
Hall, I'll be going' up to see the children,"
the ladies began to laugh, and tried to
stop her, but Harry encouraged her to goon,
an encouragement which she did not at
all seem to require, for she went on without
a moment's pause, " and I'll go bail that
they'll be the image of their father, God
bless you, Master Harry ! but they'll
have the eyes and hair of the Granvilles.
'Twill be the same with Miss Fanny's
children here."

The ladies again essayed to stop her, but
it was to no purpose, as she appeared
resolved to deliver herself of the pleasing
weight of her happy forebodings.

'' Isn't he the darling', comely gentleman,
Miss Fanny?"

'' Who ? " inquired Harry.

Och," she resumed, " who should it
be but Master Herbert ? And the first'Il
be a boy. I was dreaming' about it last
night. I thought I saw in the bed — "

'' Ob, stop, stop, Nelly," exclaimed both
ladies together.

''N'o, no; go on, Nelly," cried Harry;
and Nelly did go on.

I thought I saw—"

'* Oil, come away, Julia," cried Fanny;
'nelly is very naughty this evening'' and
both ladies walked away, laughing.

Nelly laughed too, and called out to
them to wait, as she had something to say
to them which she could not postpone.
She then approached them, and whispered
something in so low a voice that Harry
could not catch the words. She then
repeated her curtsies and proceeded on
her way.

We may as well inform the reader at
once of the secret which Nelly so mysteriously
conveyed to the two young ladies,
lest any unnecessary importance may seem
to be attached to it. The words she spoke
were only these, —

*' I was dreaming' that you, Miss Fanny,
was married to Master Herbert, and that
you, Miss Julia, was married to Master
Harry here : there's for ye now ; mind mis
words'"

Miss Granville having now expressed
her desire to proceed homewards, and
refusing all solicitation on the part of
her two companions to return to the
Hall to spend the remainder of the evening
with them, they all three passed on

in the direction of Asligrove, crossing
over the fields, and coming out on the
mountain road. Miss Moore and her
brother having parted with Miss Granville
at the gate opening into the avenue leading
to Asligrove House returned to their own
home.

They had not long returned when their
father, mother, and aunt, accompanied by
Joe Whitmore, arrived at the Hall. They
all appeared to be in high spirits, for they
talked loudly, and laughed heartily, and
otherwise manifested a state of feeling
most gratifying to behold. Mr. Moore
was in great glee, the case at Petty Sessions
in which he took a very particular interest,
inasmuch as it affected one of his tenantry,
resulted most satisfactorily to him. Joe
Whitmore was most hilarious, and made
amazing attempts at being witty, especially
with the view of attraction the regards of
Mrs. Credan ; for he went so high in his
flights of wit for the edification of that
lady, as to assure her that he '' regretted
he had not been born at an earlier day
in order that he might bask in her sunshine,
and be blessed in her smiles — crack ! "

He roared, too, most immoderately,
VOL. ir. D

doubling himself, as far as it was possible
for him to perform that graceful attitude,
in the redundance of his glee. And, at
length he flung himself upon a couch, in
the exhaustion of his merriment, and found
relief in a most impressive yawn and an
exclamation of '' crack ! 'tis glorious ! "

Mrs. Moore was at once important and
condescending ; she smiled graciously upon
her son, and affected the most tender
solicitude for her daughter, declaring, in
accents the most maternal and affecting,
how unhappy she had felt all day under
the apprehension that her dear Fanny was
lonely and miserable; but then she had
felt reassured, knowing, as she did, that
her dear daughter was so homely and so
sensible that she sought nothing but the
pleasure of attending to the affairs of the
household, and of making everything nice
in anticipation of the return of her dear
papa and mamma."

And then she kissed her daughter in the
most imposing manner possible, and felt
truly happy.

Mrs. Credan looked very serious, and, of
course very wise, for she understood
human nature, and showed herself conscious

of the deep knowledge by wliicli she
felt herself distinguished. She talked
superbly of the vanities of the world, and
the discretion that was requisite in dealing
with them.

'' When she was a young woman," thus
she went on, '' she experienced some of
those vanities, but then she was successful
in defending herself against their evil
effects. All that was required in such
cases was self distrust and reliance upon
the advice of the experienced."

She directed the flow of her wisdom
particularly to Fanny, who hung attentive
upon her accents, although an indifferent
observer might detect a dissentient twinkle
in the corners of Fanny's eyes, as her
magnificent aunt pursued her philosophic
dissertation.

Harry looked on with an air of comical
enjoyment. He was amused with the glee
of his father over the success of the Petty
Sessions case. Scorn and disgust were
his predominant feelings in presence of the
apish manifestations of Joe Whitmore;
while the different displays of his father
and mother produced in him a sensation of
drollery and fun.

D 2

'egad, Harry," said Mr. Moore, addressing
his son, " we gained a noble
triumph over those scoundrels to-day ;
hadn't it been for myself and Whitmore?
who, by-the-bye, stuck to me like a brick,
those infernal Myers would have mulcted
us. How Sir Michael enjoyed our triumph,
to be sure ! Ha ! ha ! ha ! Why, hang
it, Harry, the sheep didn't eat an ounce of
grass, for there wasn't as much grass on
the field as would feed a cock robin. And
besides, there was no trespass in point of
law, and I showed that clearly ; for unless
the fences were of sufficient strength to
resist the ordinary efforts of cattle to
encroach, there could be no trespass ; but
hang it, in this case, there was no fence
at all to a part of the field. But fence or
no fence, I should not like those cursed
Myers to succeed in the case. You see,
it's not the amount of the damage, whatever
it might be, that I'd care a straw
about, for I would not allow a farthing to
fall upon the shoulders of my tenant — it is
the satisfaction those upstart scoundrels
would feel in worsting me that I'd care
about. Do you know what I told their
attorney ? I be hanged if I didn't. ' Tell

your client to go back to Ms little, aud
redeem this losses.' Ha ! ha ! ha ! By
the great Caesar, I told him so to his teeth.
And how that young Tyler paled under it ;
the father and son were present."

"I know," observed Harry, "they are
low fellows ; but I wonder that Whitmore
didn't support their view of the case, for,
in general, they appear to sail in the same
boat."

Bah ! " exclaimed the father, punching
Harry in the side with his clenched fist
and lowering his voice, " are you so
dull, boy ? Don't you know when women
are in the way, that fools and rogues alike
can be led by the nose. Ha ! ha I ha !
Faith, I believe I could make Joe clean out
my stable if he only thought it would
incline this baggage of a daughter of mine
to lend an ear to his absurd blundering.
Ha 1 ha ! ha ! Well, we must not discourage
the rascal too much : fools, and even
rogues — hang it, I believe he has a dash
of both characters in him — are sometimes
useful, however ; though I should never
like to use them, if I could help it at all.
Come, Felicia, my dear," turning to his
wife, " let dinner be ordered immediately ;

8 THE Granville.

we are as liungrj as hawks. Eli, Joe, mj
bright fellow," directing himself to that
worthy as he lay extended on the couch,
'' don't you think a cut of beef and a jorum
of claret would not come amiss after a
hard day's work, as you and I have had ? "

"I believe you, Moore, crack ! there,"
was the exclamation of Joe, as he smacked
his lips, and stroked the side of his head.

Aunt Credan had, meantime, engaged
Fanny in a grave and impressive dissertation
on the ways and manners of particular
families whom she Ind visited that day, ac
well as on the weaknesses and follies of
mankind in general. She did not at all
approve of the sentimentalities of Sir
Michael Carey's family.

It will not do at all, my dear," she went
on to say, " for people to be changing to old-fashioned
notions of family pride and such
things. You must know, dear Fam\y, that
the present is an age of progress, and that
we must all go with the times. That's
what I say. It is all very well to be able
to say that you are descended from an
honourable stock, of course, no one can
deny it ; but then, you see, we must all
accommodate ourselves to the progress of

tidings, and not be too particular about
ancient lineage and the like. That's what
I maintain. Mr. Whitmore is a rising
man, that is, I mean, he holds a good
property in the country, and his family
will improve by connexion with those who
are descended from a better race. So you
see, 'tis a folly to be too particular in those
matters. And he is a fine-looking man,
and dresses well; and many a lady, of
high descent too, would be glad to form an
alliance with him. His manners may bea
little rough, and his education not exactly
all that would be desirable, but he is
agreeable and his writing is very fine, I
mean, of course, his penmanship ; as for
his diction, it cannot be very good in the
absence of a proper education, but, on the
whole, he is very passable."

Fanny felt highly amused during this
running commentary on the qualifications
of Joe ; and at length burst out in a fit of
laughter that ran throughout the room.
But she checked herself after a moment,
and placing her mouth close to the ear of
her aunt, she whispered, —

"Don't you think, dear aunt, that he'd
make a fortune on the stag-e ? "

She tlieii drew back, and looked into her
aunt's face with an irresistible expression
of comic humour.

Mrs. Credan pursed out her lips, and
looked down at her toes in deep meditation,
during which performance Fanny had escaped
to another part of the room, and had
taken hold of her brother's arm, with whom
she appeared to be engaged in pleasant
conversation.

By this time dinner had been announced,
and all moved away towards the diningroom.
It was a homely dinner, and passed
off without any ceremony, the ladies
retiring very shortly, and leaving the
gentlemen to enjoy their claret. Harry,
who did not feel any particular interest in
the conversation of Joe Whitmore, soon
followed the example of the ladies ; and
Mr. George Moore and Joe were left sole
occupants of the dining-room. They
drank and talked and laughed for the
space of an hour or so, and then retired
into the drawing-room, where they met
only the two old ladies, who were engaged
at some needlework. Harry had gone out
to the stables, and Fanny had retired to
her own room to pen an epistle to Herbert

Granville, in wliicli she depicted the evening's
scene, and drew a lively representation
of Joe Wliitmore.

After some time spent in the drawing-room,
Joe became restless, and expressing
his intention of withdrawing, he had his
horse brought up to the hall-door. Then,
wishing the ladies and Mr. Moore a goodnight,
he mounted and dashed down the
avenue towards Castle Whitmore. Mr.
Moore felt fatigued after the day, and so,
having ordered some hot water and susan
with a decanter of whisky to his bedroom,
he retired for the nio-ht. The two sisters,
Mrs. Moore and Mrs Credan, were thus
left alone at their seeing: in the drawings


The more I reflect upon it," Mrs.
Moore went on to say in continuation of
some previous remarks, '' the more I am
satisfied that it is the best plan we could
adopt."

*' No doubt at all of it, my dear Felicia,"
said Mrs. Credan, " because, by not forcing
the subject directly upon her, we avoid
creating any alarm in her mind, and thereby
prevent any rash step that she might
otherwise adopt. You know, ni}^ dear

sister, that patience is one of the finest
virtues of the whole category. It checks
every hasty passion ; it keeps the mind
calm ; and gives full play to the reasoning
faculties. I have heard the Rev. Dr.
Markham descant beautifully upon it. Its
the noblest by far of all the virtues ; that
is, as he said, in a philosophical point of
view. Other virtues, to be sure, are ' loftier
in their aspiration ' — these were his words
' that is, they aim at higher and grander
achievements, such as patriotism, benevolence,
love ; but for safe, practical action
and results, patience stands alone.' Precisely
in keeping with this idea is the
French maxim to which the doctor
referred, namely ' tout le moche appartient
a qui salt attended Now, you see, if we
brought this matter before Fanny as we
had intended, and urged it upon her, she
might not, it is true, offer any apparent
resistance, but she would be made aware
of our determination to unite her with
Whitmore, and so would devise means,
in conjunction, no doubt, with that young
man Granville, to counteract our views.
But now, allowing things to take a quiet
course, as we have determined, she will

not be alarmed, and consequently will
not take any steps to overthrow our
plans."

Well, I don't know, Fanny, what to
think about it," observed Mrs. Moore, '' it
is a subject that puzzles me very much.
You know my daughter is very giddy —
quite heartless indeed, I would say — did
you not see how indifferently she treated
Mr. Whitmore this evening ? Why, she
was not commonly civil to him, not that
alone; but she could not, or would not,
restrain herself in his presence, but laughed
and trifled in such a way as would offend
any man. I am sure, if Mr. Whitmore
was not so sensible and forbearing as he
is, and no doubt so sincerely and tenderly
attached to her, he could not have tolerated
it. She really never condescended to speak
two words to him — at least, as far as I
could observe."

'' Yes," said Mrs. Credan, '' and when I
spoke with her at the window recess on
the subject, she laughed in my face. And,
do you know, she did more than that ?
She actually whispered in my ear that ' he
(Whitmore) would make a fortune on the
stage.' "

*' What did lie mean by that observation
P " asked Mrs. Moore.

'' Why, my dear, yon may be snreit was
intended as anything but complimentary,"
replied the other lady ; " it was not that
she intended to signify that he possessed
wit to qualify him to become a star ; oh
no, you may be assured of that. What
she evidently intended to convey was that
he was such a stupid and silly fellow that
he would afford amusement by his blunders
and ridiculous behaviour; in short, that
he would make an excellent pantaloon or
buffoon. That's what she meant, you may
rely upon it."

I must say," said Mrs. Moore, " that I
cannot comprehend her conduct at all.
She is certainly incorrigible. But the
truth is, as long as that young man Herbert
continues to live at Ash-rove, she
cannot be brought to do anything rational.
I hear, however, that it is very probable
he'll be leaving the country shortly. His
uncle, the colonel, it is said, is desirous of
having him live with him. He is rich, they
say, having obtained a large landed property
in Canada from the Government, for
his services to the Crown, and having*

besides purchased considerable property
there in addition. He has never married,
and is now an old man. It is
thought that he'll adopt his nephew as
heir to all his property. I am sure, if
Herbert was in possession of this property
I shouldn't object so much to his
marrying Fanny; for in that case, he
might sell the Canadian property and
settle down in this country. To be sure,
his family is ancient, and in every respect
worthy of our alliance. He is an accomplished
man himself, and possessed of
amiable and attractive qualities. So that,
he would, I have no doubt, make a very
excellent husband. But then you see, my
dear, after all, his becoming the heir of his
uncle is a mere matter of speculation, and
cannot be relied upon as a certainty. Of
Mr. Whitmore's property there is no
doubt; and it is so magnificent too;
indeed, one of the oldest and largest properties
in the country. It is true that the
Whitmore's possession of the property is
but of recent date, but what does that
matter ? After a generation or two their
origin will be forgotten, and they will rank
among the old families of the country. I

am sure I don't know what to think; at
any rate, the plan you have proposed
appears to be the best, for the present at
least. Patience is a great virtue, no doubt,
and after a little time, we shall see what
turn things will take."

"Yes, my dear Felicia," said Mrs.
Credan, '^ we shall see. I have a notion,
however, that what you say about Herbert's
leaving the country, would not have
any very material effect either upon him
or Fanny, as far as their attachment is
concerned ; that is, supposing they do love
each other, as I strongly suspect they do.
Love is not a thing so easily rooted out ;
when once it takes possession of the heart,
there it remains, and lives on for ever and
ever. So, at least, I think. I^ot that I
can say that I have had any experience of
its power, myself. I might though, had
not accident interfered and prevented
the growth of a feeling which I had once
experienced, and which, if matured, might
perhaps have terminated in that passion.
However, it doesn't serve any purpose to
recall those feelings now."

Do you refer to the time when we had
returned from school, and to the unfortunate
accident that happened to — "

"Yes, yes," interrupted Mrs. Credan,
let us not talk about it now. It lis too
painful. I never recall it that it doesn't
bring a pang to my heart."

The two ladies remained silent for a
time ; passing in mental review, no doubt,
some of the events connected with their
earlier years, when their young hearts had
commenced to drink in those raptures
which lie* scattered about in the pathway
of dreamy youth, when to live was to love ;
and when hope flung her brilliant around
on every side, enchanting the imagination,
and converting life into a paradise of
exhaustless delight.

At length, awaking from her reverie,
Mrs. Credan observed, —

Felicia, it has struck me, since my
coming here, that there is something more
than common in the relation between
Harry and Miss Granville. Have you
noticed anything of the kind ? I do not
think that I am likely to be deceived in
those things, and I certainly must be
greatly mistaken if there exists not more
than ordinary friendship between these
young people."

Oh, nonsense, Fanny," was the reply,
what could there be between them ? You

know, mj dear, that Miss Granville is
penniless. In fact, the family are all but
starving since they lost their property.
To be sure. Lord Fairborough has left
them Ashgrove House, and the small
demesne around it; and, indeed, he is
otherwise very kind to them; but what is
all that for a family who have been brought
up as they have. They cannot afford even
keeping more than one or two servants ;
and as for Julia, she has to do a good deal
of the work of the house ; indeed, I may
say, she has the whole care of the family
upon her shoulders, for Mrs. Granville,
poor woman, has become wholly incapable
of attending to anything. I really pity
her; it was a fearful blow to ber — the
loss of her husband and property at the
same time. She has felt it so much, too,
dear creature. I shouldn't be surprised,
indeed, if she had lost all her faculties. I
don't know what would have become of
me if I had met with such calamity. It is
sad, very sad indeed. But Harry to marry
Juha Grranville ! bless your heart, impossible.
I grant you, Harry is very thoughtless,
he makes too much freedom with
people that he should treat only with

becoming coolness. However, you may-rest
assured that lie lias no intention of
marrying a pauper."

'' I am not so sure of that," said Mrs.
Credan ; *' Miss Granville is, doubtless,
a very beautiful and accomplished girl ;
and there would be nothing at all surprising
in Harry's conceiving an attachment for
her. I only wish that she had a fortune ;
as I do not know of any young person whom
I should so much like to see united in
marriage with Harry as Miss Granville.
Her disposition is so gentle and kind, and
her mind so richly furnished with varied
knowledge, that it appears to me you
could not find her equal in the country.
And what man would not be happy with
such a person ? To be sure, her want of
fortune is a serious impediment; but,
perhaps her old uncle, the colonel, would
give her a dowry ; or her maternal uncle,
who is now living with the family, and
Who is possessed of some considerable
income, perhaps he would do something
for her."

''Xot at all," said Mrs. Moore; 'eben
Brown's income is very small, but whatever
it may be, he is a man likely to live

VOL. 11. E

very many yeares yet ; and after this death,
there are others on this own side that he
would be more likely to leave his property
to, than to any of the Granville. AYitli
regard to the colonel, I should like dearly
to know what his property might be worth.
They say he is very rich, but then people
should not act on mere hearsay; 'tis a
foolish thing to do. I should always
desire to be acquainted with the exact
circumstances of people before forming any
matrimonial connexion with them. That
is a wise precaution, you know, and one is
never deceived in acting upon it."

Of course it is," observed the other
lady, " but what I speak of is one thing,
and what you say, is another. You must
know, my dear sister, that Jove is one thing,
fortune another. However, we have
talked enough on this subject for one
evening. It is time to retire. I am
getting somewhat sleepy."

Both ladies rose together and left the
room.

CHAPTER XII.

A Friendly CALL IRISH POLITICS.

On the morning of the day whose events
we have been relating, the Hev. Dr. Markham
was making a few '' friendly calls," ashe
said himself. And in the course of this
laudable peripatetic occupation, he rode upto
Brookfield Hall to pay his respects to
the family there. But he found no one at
home, save the fat butler and another
servant or two, with whom he chatted fora
while, as was his wont, in a kindly strain
of benevolent familiarity. Mrs. Moore and
Mrs. Credan, as the reader knows, had
gone ont to pay a few visits ; Mr. Moore,
had gone to the Sessions Court ; and
Fanny was away among the glens, with
her " own darling Herbert." Harry was
absent too, for he had gone to Ashgrove in
the hope of getting Herbert to join him in
E 2

ut^wtKS^''

\a'

^^o\s

of

his intended angling excursion, but being
disappointed in that, he had changed his
mind, and taken a pleasant ramble with
Julia Granville through the fields and
lanes, amid the lovely sunshine and the
odour of shrubs and flowers The doctor,
therefore, finding Brookfield Hall empty of
its family occupants, turned his horse's
head in the direction of Ashgrove, to pay
a visit to 'poor dear Mrs. Granville," ashe
muttered to himself ; and to Julia, and
Herbert, and old Ben Brown.

Here, too, he found all absent, with the
exception of Mrs. Granville, who was busy
in arranging some articles of household
necessity in the Hall, and who was delighted
to see her 'dear Dr. Markham." She
told him that Herbert and Julia had gone
out some short time ago, she did not know
where ; and that Ben was with the workmen
in the cornfields. She laid aside her
work immediately, and conducted her
friend into the drawing-room, where they
sat for a brief space, and then rose and
went out into the garden. The entrance,
or at least one of the entrances to this
garden, which was devoted chiefly to fruit
and flowers, was from the drawing-room

by a small glass door which rested on a
step above the drawing-room floor. They
stepped ont here, and passing into one of the
walks they went on amid flowers of various
dyes and odours, and beneath the shade of
fruit-trees, until they arrived at a summerhouse
situated at a point of the garden
opposite to the door by which they had
entered it. This retreat was most convenient
in its situation, as it was most
beautiful in its structure. It commanded
a rather extensive view of the fields and
hills to the west of the mansion and
garden; and it was so constructed that its
occupants might be concealed from view
within its recesses, or mio-ht, if the fancy
seized them, exhibit themselves to the
observation of any person passing outside
to a considerable distance from the garden.
It had two floors ; one on a level with the
garden, and the other three or four feet
above it, and within two or three feet of
the top of the white-thorn hedge which
separated it at the back from the fields
outside. It was a delightful retreat, composed
principally of laurel, bay, and arbutus
trees, interwoven so as to form walls
almost impenetrable to the light, while a

circle of balsam-trees stood around, and
flunof their thick shade on the latticed roof
above. Through the interstices of the
walls and roof roses, and hollyhocks, and
laburnums, and other flowers of varied hue
and delicious odour peeped in and breathed
their fragrance around. On the lower
bench, surrounding the ground floor, the
lady and gentleman took their seats. The
view in front, that is, in the direction of
the drawing-room, was bright and beautiful.
The sunbeams, passing through the
apple and plum-trees, danced in lines and
circles upon the wide and white-sanded
walks. The box-trees, cut and shaped into
various fantastic forms, relieved by their
sombre shades the blinding radiance of the
sun. The fragrance wafted through the
light, fitful air, from fruit and flower was
sweet and pleasant to the sense, though
somewhat suggestive of languor and
dreaminess. Inside and outside no sound
was heard, save the drowsy buzz of fragile
insects or the light flutter of little birds
dreaming in the boughs. It was a scene
of peace and contentment. And the heart
that was at ease might revel in a luxury of
happiness there. But were these two, this

lady and this gentleman, who alone of
human kind, sat within this scene of peace,
and loveliness, and. beauty — were they
happy ? Alas ! alas ! they were not
indeed. And yet, perhaps, after all, they
experienced as much of human felicity at
that moment as generally falls to the lot of
mankind. Mrs. Granville, in one sense,
was happy; she felt a deep, internal consciousness
of purity of thought and holiness
of will, which, we know, constitute the two
chief elements of happiness. She thought
no ill, she wished no ill. But more, she
possessed that quality or virtue without
which even those two elements avail not to
real happiness ; she possessed a lively conception
of the attributes and decrees of her
divine Creator, and of the love and duty
which she owed Him. And yet she was
not happy. What then was wanting to
the complete composition of that thing, or
that idea or that feeling called happiness ?
Ask herself, and she will answer that she
fretted for her dear children — for their
future lot in the world. She fretted not
for herself ; on that score she was indifferent,
but her children — oh, her dear
children ! And this alone, according to

lier own confession, disturbed and darkened
the feelings of lier heart, and shut
out true happiness. Thus she T\^as not
happy, so she thought. But, after all, she
enjoyed that ideal good in as great a degree,
we venture to say, as it is possible for a
son or daughter of humanity to enjoy it.
There is no such thing as perfect happiness
in this sphere below. That belongs alone
to that realm of bliss and light, where God
sits in the centre of His own Being, and
where nothing of humanity in its worldly
essence is permitted to enter. Yes, we
venture to say that Mrs. Granville, at that
moment when she sat within her garden
bower conversing with her friend and
spiritual director, felt as much of happiness
as it is possible for any human being to
experience. She felt conscious of all her
relations to her Maker, as well as of her
desire and actual efforts to correspond
to those relations ; and in this, if in
anything, true happiness consists in this
world. And it was in this strain and
upon this topic that she now held converse
with her companion.

Dr. Markham expressed the sentiments
we have written, and he went on to enforce

them in this own gracious, and simple, and
kindly manner. He was a worthy man and
a distinguished divine. In foreign lands
he had sought and acquired that knowledge
and that varied learning which he was now
employing for the spiritual and social
improvement of the flock to whose charge
he had been appointed. He had been the
Catholic rector of the parish of Balh^dine
for many years, and all those years had
been employed bj^ him in dispensing
amongst his congregation, and indeed
anion Of st all those of whatever denomination
who came within the sphere of his
influence, the knowledge and learning with
which his mind was so richly stored. He
loved his flock, and was unremitting in his
varied services to them. He loved his
Protestant neighbours, and was equally
ready to afford to them all the services
that they required at his hands. He interfered
not with their special mode of serving-god
; he did not deem that any part of his
duty. But on all occasions when any of
them sought his advice or his good offices
in any matter affecting their personal, or
social, or political interests, he manifested
his readiness to assist them, according to

this knowledge and this wisdom. AYe have
said that he loved his flock and loved his
neighbours of every denomination ; he, too,
was beloved in turn by them. The Protestant
gentry all around held him in high
and affectionate admiration. They visited
him ; they invited him to their houses ;
they consulted him on all matters affecting
the well-being of the country generally :
and, in particular, with respect to the
affairs of the parish and of the county in
which they resided. And amongst the
most cordial and ardent of his friends and
admirers was the Rev. Mr. Grigger, the
Protestant rector of Ballydine. With him
he was in constant intercourse, and no
matter what event, either of a local or
national character, which happened to turnup,
the two pastors were ever sure to canvass
it, and to unite their efforts in dealing
with it according as it bore upon the
public peace and welfare, or otherwise.
Legal and constitutional assemblies for
purposes useful or beneficial to the public
interests, they always supported ; but
secret or disorderly organizations for
objects of any kind, they entirely set their
faces against.

Such, then, was the character and disposition
of the Eev. Dr. Markham. In his
person, too, Nature was kind to him, for
though of stature scarcely up to the middle
size, yet in features and corporeal symmetry
he was of remarkable beauty and grace.
His eyes were brilliant, yet flowing with
benevolence; his forehead lofty, full, and
curved ; his cheeks, more round than oval,
were smooth and delicate in colour as a
peach : his nose was straight, having,
however, the slightest inclination to that
bend popularly designated the Roman.
His mouth, which was well cut, had a little
prominence about the lips, which seemed to
give a richness to his accents ; and over
his whole face there spread a light, soft
and beautiful, which gave an additional
attraction to his presence. His shoulders
were slightly rounded, very slightly ; and
his limbs were well proportioned and
graceful in outline. When walking, he
seemed to spring rather than step, but
with an easy grace ; and in conversation
his head was bent forward a little, as if
anxious to be clearly understood. His
words, which were well-chosen, and yet
simple, seemed to flow from his lips in a

smooth, easy current, and when enforcing
any pont in his discourse, he nodded his
head with a sort of short jerk. As he sat
with Mrs. Granville in the summer-house,
he was pointing out to her the propriety
of dismissing from her mind those uneasy
and disturbing: thoughts which she had
mentioned as sometimes agitating her.

"You must understand, my dear Mrs.
Granville," he went on to say, " that
feelings such as you speak of are inseparable
from our condition here ; but every
effort should be used to dismiss them.
They can serve no useful purpose at all ;
indeed, on the contrary, they are calculated
to weary the mind and to unfit it in a
great measure for the performance of those
duties, which we are, all of us, in our
respective spheres, called upon to discharge.
Your calamities have, no doubt, been
considerable, but I think their effects will
not darken, as you say, the future prospects
of your children. I have the greatest
confidence in the good sense and ability
of Herbert. I ought to be a judge, you
know, of his character, as he has been
brought up principally under my tuition
and care. AAYell then, I am impressed with

full confidence in him, and cannot doubt
in the least degree that his career will be
distil squinted with honourable success.
There is not a particle of meanness in his
whole composition. He is a young man
who will never stoop to low intrigue to
attain any object, or turn aside from the
path of integrity and honour, from any
motive whatever. His talents, besides, are
of the first order ; indeed they are such as
qualify him for the very highest position in
the land. And you are aware, my dear
madam, that the Earl of Fairborough takes
a very deep interest in him, and is most
anxious to forward his views in any way
that he may deem most desirable himself.
In fact, the Earl himself has more than
once told me so ; and you know there is no
man who is more faithful to his expressed
intentions or promises. On that head,
therefore, you may rest quite easy. Entertain
no doubt as to Herbert's welfare.
Then as to your daughter : I have no
apprehension that her destiny will be anything
but prosperous. She is, like her
brother, possessed of fine and amiable
qualities, and has received a most accomplished
education. Do you know that I

have frequently admired her good sense ;
that quality by which she estimates the
circumstances that surround her, and acts
as if she had been born in a position
demanding personal exertion, and the
economy of time and means. This is a
leading characteristic in her mental composition
; and, depend upon it, it is one which
auteurs well for her future. I have
rarely, if ever, met one so young who was
gifted with such a fund of good sense as
Julia. And this high quality, for it is a
very high quality, and one without which
all other qualities are as shadows — this
quality, I says, combined with her superior
education, cannot fail to render her future
life prosperous and happy. The other
child is young yet, and I need not refer
to him. But looking at the whole matter,
viewing the present prospects of your
family in the way that I have — and it is
the rational way of viewing them, as I
think — there need be no apprehension in
your mind with regard to sour children."

"Indeed, doctor," said Mrs. Granville,
her head stooped, and a slight tremor in
her voice, " I feel not a little confidence in
my children, and it gives me a great deal

of comfort to hear you speak of them in
the way you have clone. But yet, you
must allow for a mother's anxiety and
tenderness. I may be wrong, and I suppose
I am, in allowing myself to indulge
in so much fretfulness about them; but
since the death of their dear father — m}^
poor George — I have felt a great responsibility
pressing upon me. It is a hard
thing to lose one whom we love, and whose
voice we have been accustomed to hear for
long years — oh, long and happy years !
Yes, they were happy years, though my
poor husband did not guard himself, as he
should, against designing men, who aimed
at his ruin and the ruin of his family.
How often have I told him, as we talked
of an evening about our circumstances, and
the future prospects of our children, that
he was exposing himself to be deceived by
some of those people who were ever running
after him for favours of one kind or
another. But of all those who haunted
him, that agent of Lord Milford, Bartley
Croker, always appeared most odious to
my eyes. I never could bear his looks.
There was something so repulsive, almost
hideous, in them. I often trembled when

I saw him approach the door. The gliding
gait of him, the insidious glance, and the
slimy tone of his voice ; it was all shocking
to nie. And he employed such an insinuating
familiarity with the whole family, one
was led to believe that he was incapable
of perpetrating any wrong. He would pat
the children, take them in his arms, and
call them by the most endearing names —
oh, the serpent ! And he would speak tome
in such a way, applauding my wisdom
and prudence, flattering my person, and
exhibiting raptures of admiration at the
excellent management of my household.
Then he would talk of my husband's great
sense, and deep penetration, of his high
and honourable spirit, of his liberality,
patriotism, generosity, and so on — oh, the
dreadful viper ! And all this time he was
deceiving my husband, plunging him into
difficulties from which it was impossible
for him to recover himself, and plotting the
ruin of us all — oh, the awful hypocrite ; the
low, base villain. But I always avoid the
mention of his name, as much as I can, for I
do not wish my children to be acquainted
with the hideousness of his villainy."

"His life," interrupted Dr. Markham, '' is
not to be envied, I can assure you. I have
reason to believe that his family are a curse
to him, and that his house is more like a
pandemonium than the abode of Christian
people. His wife, and eldest son are devoted
to the habit of intoxication ; and
when I say that, I have said everything
that is calculated to exhibit the foulest
picture of depravity and misery which it is,
perhaps, possible for the imagination to
represent. Their life, in fact, has become
a scandal, and a bye-word in the parish
of Gurtroo, as well as in the neighbouring
parishes. He is a bad man ; but his acts
of deceit and villainy will hang around
him, like scorpions, and render his life
wretched and miserable. No one should
envy such a man. He passes through
life in the garb of death. The sun's light
cannot cheer him ; the sweetness of peace
is unknown to him, the sound of his own
voice is a testimony against him ; and it
reminds him of the deceptions he has
practised in order to compass his evil ends.
He is not to be envied, my dear Madam ;
he is not to be envied. His name is un-vol.

II. F

worthy to be pronounced by honest lips.
Leave him to the tortures of his own conscience,
seared even as it is. Your lot,
madam — the lot of any one of those whom
he has cajoled — cajoled and injured — is to
be envied in comparison with his. The
evil-doer knows no peace. His ways arc
the ways of sorrow and of death. Very
true, he has brought sorrow to others, he
has wrung the hearts of the innocent and
the virtuous, and their wrongs and sufferings
cannot be relieved by reflection upon
his self-created misery ; but yet the sufferings
of the good and the just are but asa
vapour compared with the agonizing-tortures
of the deceitful and the wicked.
My dear madam, if people only reflected
on the consequences, the inevitable consequences
of their vices and bad acts — of
their malice, jealously, envy, deceit, their
slander, detraction, calumny, their cheating,
swindling, overreaching, plunder — if
they reflected upon all the consequences
that flow from these criminal practices, not
only to others, but to themselves — I say,
to themselves — they would perish rather
than be guilty of them. Because the
ultimate tendency of them is to harden the

heart, and bring reprobation on the soul.
When the soul becomes once, as it were,
clad in the dark robes of crime — wilful,
deliberate crime — when the heart becomes
thus robed, its principle of virtue becomes
extinct, and the whole soul is transferred
to the dominion of Satan. I have known
this wretched attorney long, I have known
his hypocrisy, for he once assumed superior
sanctity, and still he exhibits himself as a
Christian of no little pretensions ; so it
is with such villains, at all times — I have
watched him closely — but I never entertained
a doubt of his innate badness, his
studied rascality. But, my dear Mrs.
Granville, is it not wonderful how easily
good, and virtuous, and honourable people
are taken in and deceived by low and
cunning; villains of this kind ? I have observed
the same thing everywhere. I have
seen some remarkable instances of it on
the continent, and then the results are
frequently most deplorable, for I have
known more than one case in which the
wretched hypocrite and villain has been
shot dead by the person, or some friend of
his, whom he had deceived and injured.
It would, indeed, appear to be a just
F 2

retribution. Still, punishment should be
left with God, in cases like these where the
public law cannot reach. I have often
thought, what a pity it is that the public
law does not meet crimes of this kind. It
provides punishment for the crime of stealing
a shilling, or a shilling's worth ; but it
leaves the crime of robbing; a man of
hundreds and thousands of pounds, nay of
robbing him of all means, present and prospective,
of supporting himself, or of
securing an independence — it leaves that
crime untouched because it was committed
through cunning, deception, and lying.
It makes a distinction, not between the
crimes themselves, but between the instruments
whereby the crimes are committed.
In one case, the hand is the instrument,
in the other, the tongue ; but while the
man is punished for the comparatively
small crime committed by his hand, he is
allowed to go scot-free for the vastly
greater and more ruinous crime committed
by his tongue. My dear madam, this
state of things ought to be remedied.
However, I would counsel you not to revert
to this bad man's conduct any more.
We must withdraw our attention from

those things and persons that cannot be
remedied or reformed."

While the doctor was thus proceeding
in his strictures upon Bartley Croker, the
attorney and agent, he rose from time to
time, made one or two steps forward,
plucked a flower, smelt it, and resumed
his seat again, without, at the same time,
checking in the least the flow of his observations.
Mrs. Granville listened with
grave attention, one hand laid over the
other, and both resting on her knee, the
whole time. Sometimes she would raise
her eyes to heaven, and sigh deeply. But
when he had concluded, she said, — •

*' Indeed, I have often, upon my knees,
prayed to God to soften the unfortunate
man's heart, and to grant him the grace of
repentance. It is awful to think how men
can act so, while they believe that there is
a God in heaven above them, to whom
they have to render an account of their
actions in this world ; but my poor dear
husband was too noble-minded to be able
to descend to the level of such vile conduct
on the part of those he had to deal with,
and to counteract their low and treacherous
villainy. However, we must overlook all

this conduct now, and beg of God to enable
us to bear the trials and afflictions it has
brought upon us."

That is the duty of us all," observed
the doctor, " to forgive our enemies, as we
hope for forgiveness from our heavenly
Father. We are all sinners in some degree,
and we need forgiveness. And He who
tempers the wind to the shorn lamb '
will not overlook the necessities and requirements
of those who strive to labour
in His service, and abide by His law. His
high will be done. But, mj dear Mrs.
Granville, I have again to beg of you not
to refer to those transactions connected
with the loss of your husband's property,
and especially to the part which that
wretched man, Croker, has played in them,
before your children. It can now serve
no good purpose to recall those things ;
on the contrary, it would only be disturbing
the minds of your children, and creating
ill-feeling in their young hearts. This
must be avoided. Better things will yet
come to pass, please God. By-the-bye, I
had intended to ask you, if you have lately
heard from your brother, the colonel, and
whether he is still anxious for Herbert to

join him. I ask you this because the Earl
of Fairborough was talking with me the
other day on this subject, and he seemed
to think that it might be of service to
Herbert to comply with the wishes of his
uncle, provided that an appointment might
be obtained for him, at the same time, in
Canada. I know the Earl will use his
influence with the Colonial Office for this
purpose. It would be well if Herbert were
near his uncle, at any rate ; for, I have
no doubt that if he knew him it would
draw tighter the bonds of affection between
them. Herbert must have been very
young when the Colonel went out to
Canada ; so that they could have had but
very little knowledge of each other. I am
confident that Herbert would stand well
in the estimation of his uncle, if they were
together and knew each other well."

"We have heard from him lately,"
replied Mrs. Granville, " and he is still
urgent in his desire to have Herbert with
him. I am sure I would be very desirous,
for Herbert's own sake, that he went to
his uncle ; but I really believe that his
hesitation in doing so proceeds from his
unwillingness to leave me and his sister.

Poor Herbert is very affectionate, and lie
fears that if lie left us we should feel unhappy.
I do not wish to press him either ;
for, really, doctor, I must confess to the
weakness of wisliino- him to remain with
us ; not, of course, that I say so to him,
lest it might interfere with his prospects
in life. It is, you will acknowledge, a hard
task to compel oneself to forego the
pleasure of having him here, among those
who love him, and whom he, dear boy,
loves so much. But Grod's will be done.
If it is to be so, if he must leave us, we
must only endeavour to reconcile ourselves
to the will of the Almighty, who can bring
blessings out of sorrows. I am aware of
Lord Marlborough's kind wishes in his
regard ; and indeed, we can never feel too
grateful to his lordship, and to Lady
Fairborough for their goodness to us
under all our afflictions. When others
were indifferent, they were kind and
thoughtful towards us, so that we can
never lose the memory of their benevolence
and goodness. I know poor Julia would
feel very, very much the departure of
Herbert, they are so much attached to each
other. And she is so quiet and gentle,

and so retiring in her manners and habits,
that any separation of the family would
affect her deeply, and God only knows how
it might affect her health and spirits to be
obliged to part from her dear brother."

While Mrs. Granville was speaking in
this strain, she, every now and then,
pressed her handkerchief to her eyes, and
paused to recall the train of her ideas.
Doctor Markham evidently felt deep sympathy
with her, for while she spoke he kept
stroking his chin, occasionally slipping his
hand towards his eyes, and pressing his
fingers hard upon his cheeks. At length
he arose, and said, —

"Well, well, my dear Mrs. Granville,
we shall say no more at present on this
subject, but I trust you will display a
becoming fortitude under any trials that
it may please the all-wise Dispenser of
human affairs to send you. Indeed, I do
not apprehend any great trials for you ;
you have suffered much, it is true ; but the
arm of our good and gracious Father, who
sees and knows what is best for us allis
able to redeem by timely compensation,
the sufferings of His children. — Oh, my dear
Juba, how do you do ? "

He stepped briskly forward to meet
Miss Granville who appeared to have just
entered the garden from the drawing-room,
and to be advancing through one o£ the
walks towards the place where she heard
the voice proceeding. When Dr. Markham
was addressing the last observations we
have recorded to Mrs. Granville, he and
she were passing through the walk which
ran in the direction of the drawing-room,
for they had left the summer-house as he
commenced those observations. He,
therefore, saluted Julia, when he had
reached a point about twenty yards from
the summer-house.

Julia, whose head was inclined towards
the ground, did not seem to have regarded
the words addressed to her, but passed on
by a short side walk, evading, as it seemed,
a meeting with her mother and the doctor.
The doctor stood and looked after her
retreating figure, but spoke not.

Where is Julia ? " asked Mrs. Granville.


The doctor still remained silent, but
fixed in observation of the retiring figure.
At length he said, —

*' She has entered the summer-house;

let US go back and see what is the
matter."

They both retraced then' steps, Mrs.
Granville observing that she had not
caught sight of Julia, and expressing her
surprise that she should pass on so, without
speaking with them. When they entered
the summer-house they saw no one there.

'' Where can she have gone ? " asked the
doctor.

'' I really cannot say," was the reply,
have you seen her — are you sure ? "

I certainly saw her," he said, '' I
couldn't have been mistaken. But if it
wasn't she, who was it? and where is the
person gone ? "

There is no way of passing out of the
garden," observed Mrs. Granville, '' except
by the drawing-room, or by the large gate
at the lower end, which is always kept
locked and barred, except when the gardener
is at work, and requires the place to
be open. He keeps the key."

'' Let us go down to the gate," said the
doctor. And they went down ; but the
gate was locked and bolted ; and there was
no one anywhere about.

"It is remarkably strange," observed

the doctor, as they retraced their steps
towards the summer-lioase. " I could have
sworn that it was Julia: perhaps, she is playing
us a prank : let us look along the bowers,
and examine the recesses. But what could
she mean by trying to puzzle us ? "

Upon my honour, doctor, I do not
know what it means," replied his companion,
" I haven't seen her ; and it strikes
me as remarkable that I should not have
seen her at the same time with yourself,
for we walked side by side, and the dew
was as open to me as to you. I raised up
my eyes the moment you addressed her,
and couldn't see her. How is it ? "

The doctor could not tell how it was.
He looked at it in every point of view : —
was it second sight ? He felt puzzled.
He examined it by the light of reason : he
placed it at the touchstone of science : he
measured it by the law of revelation ; and
he studied it as a problem of second sight :
but he could make nothing of it. He did
not desire, either, to make anything of it.
For, in truth, it presented a difficulty which
neither philosophy nor theology cared to
deal with. One thing only was certain in
the doctor's mind, and that was that he

saw lier — that he saw Julia Granville
coming towards him in the garden ; and
that after he had addressed her he saw her
turning off into a side-walk ; and that after
he had looked at her retreating figure, he
saw her enter the summer-house. He was
sure of all that ; but he understood nothing-else.


Dear me," observed Mrs. Granville, as
the had retired to the drawing-room, '' I
hope in God that nothing is going to
happen to Julia. It is so remarkable. I
remember my dear mother telling how she
saw her aunt on the lawn one fine summer's
evening, when, at the same moment, she
was fifty miles away. We were all puzzling
ourselves about it that evening, and often
afterwards, but never could find a solution
of the mystery. My poor father laughed
very heartily at the whole story, and said
it was mere phantasy. But I don't know.
It may be phantasy : or it may be something
else ; I can't tell. I am sure you
should know, doctor."

*' Oh, I am satisfied now, that it was a
mere optical delusion. She wasn't there,
that's certain. Then, that being the case,
there is no other way of accounting for it,

tliaii that it was a mere freak of the optical
sense. The senses do, sometimes, play ns
tricks of this kind. There is the sense of
hearing, for instance ; how often do we
imagine that we hear sounds and voices,
and even fancy ourselves spoken to, when,
in reality, there was nothing of sound or
voice ;— 'twas all a cheat. Well, so it is
with the other senses. AYe sometimes
start, as if a hand had been laid upon us ;
but there was nothing : it was fancy
merely. Often in eating we taste aloes ;
but there was no aloe in the food. The
sense of smelling is liable to a similar deception.
In short, we are carried away
very frequently in the whirl and confusion
of the imagination, and become almost as
children, scarcely able to account for ourselves."


'' And yet," observed Mrs. Grranville,
there may be something in it, after all.
May not God, our Father, who has always a
care of our interests, send us those visions,
or appearances, or whatever we may call
them, for some purposes only known to Himself,
but ultimately for our benefit ? "

'swell, that is quite possible," replied
the doctor ; " but we must remember that

our heavenly Father never does anything
in vain. We should therefore ask ourselves
what object could He have in sending
us those delusive visions ? what purposes
could they serve ? He has established
universal laws for our guidance, and the
guidance of the world : these laws must
be observed; their violation creates disorder
and confusion : and the appearances and
effects resulting from such violation are
sometimes, and must be necessarily, strange
and incomprehensible. I speak now particularly
of the human body and the
human mind. The smallest irregularity in
the functions of both, or either, produces
results opposite to those which appertain
to their normal condition. Hence we
fancy a thousand existences, a thousand
states of being, which of themselves do
not exist, but are the result of the irregularity
I have spoken of."

'' But has not God sent visions in former
times ? " said Mrs. Granville, still adhering
to her own views ; *^ has He not sent an
angelic messenger to Abraham, for instance
? How do you account for that ? "

Oh, that is quite a different thing,"
replied the doctor; "under the old dispensation

the world was governed by the
immediate power of God : He acted directly
on human affairs, as regarded the administration
of His kingdom. That was
the law of His Church then, if I may so
speak; but now, under the new dispensation,
He has altered that system, and
governs mediately, through His law, established
upon earth by Himself in person.
That makes the difference. I do not at
all desire to infer that Grod does not sometimes
operate directly and immediately
upon His Church and the affairs of His
universe : for this is so ; and must be so :
it cannot be otherwise. But that is a
different thing from those manifestations
or phantasies, of which we are speaking.
God acts wisely, consistently, and benevolently
in all things : and never does anything
without a wise and benevolent end :
this we must never forget. He never
deceives, never mocks, never misleads, how
can we suppose then that He would cast
those shadows or visions upon us merely
to misdirect and confound us. Ob, no,
no; that is impossible."

** Yes, that is very true, but — "

Mrs. Granville was about to urge her

views further; but the doctor, taking his
watch from his pocket, and glancing at it,
observed that he had overstayed his time ;
and wishing her a cordial good-bye, left
the drawing-room. His horse was led upto
the hall-door ; he got into the saddle,
and he rode away.

Having passed out at the lodge-gate
opening into the winding avenue which
led up between embowering oaks and elms
to the mansion, he proceeded on his way
towards the Cross of Ballydine. As he
approached the Cross he saw, coming in a
contrary direction up the road leading from
Corrigcastle, the Rev. Mr. Grigger, on
horseback. They met at the Cross ; for
the latter rev. gentleman seeing his friend
approach, and having arrived at the Cross
before him, drew up, and waited his arrival.
Having exchanged most cordial greetings,
they wheeled round together, and directed
their horse's heads along the road opposite
to that leading to Green Corril, and in the
direction of which lay the residence of the
Rev. Dr. Markham.

The Rev. Mr, Grig^g^er looked bright and
cheerful. He was a man of a rather
imposing physique : above the middle

VOL. II. G

height, bUifE and rotund. He was somewhat
incensed towards corpulency, but yet,
free and active in his movements. He sat
his horse well and jauntily ; and looked
altogether as if capable of enduring considerable
fatigue. His face was round,
plump, and jolly; and lighted by a pair of
blue merry eyes. He was an alumnus of
the Dublin University, and could chop
logic as well as any man of his profession.
But, as we have already stated, in referring
to his name, he was not a bigot ; far from
it, he had too much good sense, and, let
us say, too much Christian feeling for that.
He was as to discussion about religious
principles and doctrines, a man who could
give and take ; and not permit himself to
go into any violent paroxysms whichever
way the scales turned. In one word he
was a Christian and a gentleman. But the
truth is, he never cared about set fights on
religion, and he always avoided them. He
condemned them in others, and what he
condemned in others he never practised
himself.

As the two friends went quietly along,
just keeping their horses at a lively walking
pace, and enjoying the soft smiling scene

and fragrant atmosphere, they added
variety to their enjoyment by descanting,
in a cursory way, on such topics of interest,
present and past, as rose to their minds,
or were suggested by a casual remark.

I have seen the great meeting," observed
the Rev. Mr. Grio^o^er, " as I was
passing out by the Fair Green, at Corrig-
castle. It was a large affair; and O'Connel
appeared in all his glory."

'' Ah, indeed," said the Rev. Dr. Markham
; " I had quite forgotten that a meeting
was to take place there to-day. It was, as
I have understood, for the purpose of
petitioning for a repeal of the Union."

"Yes, so I understood," said the rector;
it was quite orderly, though of immense
dimensions. As I passed by the platform,
I drew up ; and had an opportunity of
hearing O'Connel; that is, after another
gentleman had spoken before him. He
was very strong in his language, and very
eloquent ; and occasionally threw a great
deal of humour into his observations. He
is a wonderful man : — he plays so effectively
upon his audience — he had them laughing,
weeping, swearing, roaring. I verily
believe that he could make them do any
2

tiling lie liked. He dwelt very much upon
the Virginian sentiment, —

Sic vos lion vobis weller fortis oves.' "

'^ Not in the language of the poet, I
hope," said the doctor, laughing.

''Oh, no, no," said the rector; "he
wisely adopted the vernacular. He has
been educated chiefly on the continent —
at Steamers, I hear."

Yes, at St. Osiers," reiterated the
doctor ; " and he is a man of high attainments.
I do not speak with regard to his
profession, in which he stands very high ;
but as an educated man generally. He
studied at your Alma Mater, too."

'what? Trinity?"

Yes : but your liberality was such that
he had no hope of a degree there. So, like
many others, he was obliged to leave his
own country, and seek in another land a
recognition of his literary acquirements.
What a blot it is on the utility of the
Dublin University that it should exclude
genius from its honours unless recommended
by a particular stamp of Christian
profession. I wonder how long shall
Ireland remain in the crucible of an insane

exclusion from the privileges and immunities
of a civilized people."

I must say," was the rejoinder, '' that
I cannot reflect upon this, or indeed upon
any other of those distinctions which mark
the character of our British policy, without
a feeling of shame and regret. It is to my
mind altogether indefensible, that a young
man of literary talent and unimpeachable
character should be debarred of those
privileges and distinctions which are conferred
upon others of similar worth, on
the sole ground of his religious principles,
especially when those are Christian principles.
A heathen, or a Jew might, perhaps,
with some show of reason, be so
excluded — though I am not sure of that
either ; — but a Christian ! — oh it is too
bad. I say, I am not sure that even a
heathen or a Jew could be, with any show
of reason, denied a degree on the ground
of their particular form of religion. If
they were denied education altogether, I
could understand what was meant ; but to
be educated, and then refused an acknowledgment
of the fact — for that is the
meaning of a degree in the primary sense —
is a thug so monstrously absurd and inconsistent,

and so destitute of commonsense,
that I cannot conceive why it should
ever have been adopted."

'every true, very true," observed the
doctor ; " and then there is the State
Church — ha ! ha ! I fear I am treading on
forbidden ground : but you will not refuse
admitting that it is most unjust to compel
by law one body of Christians to support
the establishment of another. There is
not a shadow of justice in it ; and as for
the policy of it, I must confess, it passes
my comprehension. The policy would be
directly the other way — that is, to allow
each denomination to support its own particular
establishment would be a wise policy,
since in that case, the State would be
exempt from the unnecessary burthen of
paying for the support of any establishment;
and religion itself would be relieved from
the opprobrium of being dependent upon
State support. A religion that is not self-sustaining,
when free and untrammelled, as
all religion ought to be, can scarcely be
regarded as worthy of the name. If the
State interfered at all in this matter,
it should be with equal consideration towards
all Christian churches. But, in the

present case, where our religion is reade a
scape-goat for all others, the professors of
that religion cannot be loyal to the State.
Impossible."

Well, now, doctor," said the rector ;
you have briefly stated the views I entertain
upon that subject. In fact, the continuance
of this tax — and a most oppressive
tax it is — upon your people for the support
of the Establishment, is simply a remnant
of the original policy of extermination ; I
mean, the extermination of your church in
these countries. At first, it might be
justifiable — that is, with those who deemed
Romanism a dangerous Creed — to supplant
that Creed, and establish the reformed
religion upon its ruins ; but, now, and
indeed for more than a century past, when
it has been made evident that such an
attempt, even if it were wise, is impracticable,
the continuance of any portion of this
exterminating policy is worse than absurd.
It is absolutely injurious to the stability of
the empire, and detrimental to the spirit of
religion itself. I must say, in whatever
point of view I regard the past of Ireland,
it presents to my mind a very, very sad
picture. And, after all, the Irish people

themselves are more to blame than their
English masters. There has been some
fatuity over them from the very commencement
; at least as far as we can see
into their history. I, as an Irishman,
would feel proud of her prosperity and her
fame ; but I must declare that when I look
back at her, and mark her political and
social irregularities, her follies, and her
crimes ; and when I look around me, at
her present mode of conducting her public
concerns, I feel ashamed that I am an
Irishman'*

Here the rev. gentleman checked the
bridle, and struck his spurs into the flanks
of his horse ; which caused the animal to
spring forward, and then, being checked,
to curvet towards the roadside.

*' Ireland's history," began the doctor,
** is doubtless a sad one ; — replete with
error and suffering. When you come to
think of the past of Ireland, of the dissensions,
hatreds, animosities, rivalries, and
bloodshed of which that past is made up,
you would be disposed to say that Heaven
in its anger has poured out its vial of
wrath upon the unhappy land. Not alone
in heathen times was it distinguished by

I

its senseless follies and reckless crimes, for
then it might seek palliation in a comparison
of crime with other portions of
the world ; but since the introduction of
Christianity within its borders it has not
abandoned its self-destructive propensities
and insane conduct. Indeed, in the first
ages of its Christian life it raved and raged
as fiercely as if the clouds of heathenism
had never been touched by the rays of
a loftier, a purer worship. Look at our
kings, princes, and nobles — how they
lacerated each other, and made the mountains
and vales of the so-called ' Island of
Saints ' reek with the blood of her sons.
The common people participated in the
crimes of their leaders, and thus was presented
the anomaly of a people, professing
the doctrines of peace and good-will,
imbruing their hands in each other's blood.
And this was not a mere periodical outburst
of enraged feeling, sweeping the
political and social atmosphere for a
moment, and then subsiding into the calm
and sunshine of peace and brotherly love.
No ; it was the fixed and unchangeable —
the normal condition of things. Well; it
has continued down to our own times,

mitigated only by the progressive influence
of a state of advancing civilization
throughout the world. The same spirit of
internal antagonism, of mutual suspicion
and hatred, of jealousy, malice, and ill-will
predominates to-day as it did centuries
ago ; and as long as we have any authentic
accounts of the social condition of the
country. From the time of the Eoman
rule in Britain down to the occupation of
this island by the English, there has been
no change in the spirit of distrust and
hatred which has characterized the Irish
in their conduct towards one another. An
Irish prince and traitor appears before our
eyes in the light of history, seated in the
Homan camp on the soil of Britain, bargaining
for the enslavement of his country,
and another Irish prince and traitor
before us in the same light, at the Court
of Britain, engaged in the same nefarious
design, at a distance of a thousand years :
thus heathen and Christian performing
alike the same office of treachery and
ruin for their unfortunate country. And
what have we to-day ? Is not the same
spirit of treason, of mutual discord, of
jealousy and hatred, as rife to-day as it

was 700 years ago, as it was 1500 years
ago O'Connel agitates the country; but
what turns up ? mutual recrimination,
bitter and deadly antagonism of opposing
factions ; personal ambition based upon
public treason, passions the most violent,
and hatred the most intense. What can
this agitation result in then ? What can
it possibly result in, but one thing, the
utter destruction of whatever of political
and moral virtue that still happens to
exist in the country.

'' O'Connel means well, for aught I
know to the contrary, he desires the
political and social regeneration of his
country, he wishes to advance her destinies,
and to make them keep pace with those
of the other countries of Europe : but
how is he effecting this ? what is the
material out of which he is trying to
produce this result ? Why, just this — a
people divided against themselves ; a
people who hate each other, as much as
they hate the strangers whom they call
their oppressors, a people who have inherited
from an almost interminable line
of ancestry all those moral or immoral
qualities which render them wholly incapable

of producing any grand result in
the field of political amelioration ; in short,
he has about the worse material that
Europe can present for the effectuation of
his proposed object. History tells us this
sad story, experience confirms it. It is
useless to flatter people ; nay more, it is
criminal to do so, and if there is anything
in the political conduct of Mr. O'Connel
that deserves special censure, it is that
continuous habit and practice of his
whereby he endeavours to exhibit the
Irish to the world as specimens of everything
that is worthy of imitation by mankind.
This is hiarneij with a vengeance ;
and depend upon it, that there is something
wrong where blarney is in the
ascendant. He has been successful in
carrying emancipation, of whatever value
that may be, and I'm not one who would
underrate its value. No man ought to be
branded with political disqualification on
account of his religious profession, most
especially when that is of the Christian
type ; and the removal of this brand from
the brow of the Catholic is a thing of value.
But that this act of emancipation will be
attended with any real or substantial

benefit to the people of this country is a
folly to think. It can produce no such
benefit in the present state of public
morals and social disorganization. A few
ambitious and unprincipled aspirants will
obtain seats in the British Parliament, and
offices here and there throughout the
Empire; but the people, the great body of
the inhabitants of this island, will derive no
advantage whatever from this act of freedom
; on the contrary, I believe it will be
injurious to them. And on what ground
do I assert this ? On this mainly, that
the corruption of political morals will become
so great and wide-spread, from the
ambition of the few to obtain seats in the
Legislature, and offices under the Government,
at the expense of the many, that the
real interests of the country will be lost
sight of in the scramble that will ensue for
individual advancement; and that the
country will sink into a lower and more
helpless condition than it occupied before
this measure was passed.

'' I regret this prospect, but it forces
itself upon me : I cannot shut my eyes toit.
The ball now thrown up for agitation
is a ' Repeal of the Union,' but who is

going to repeal it ? Such men as I have
described will not do it; nor vrillthey do
anything else but what may be conducive
to their own personal aggrandizement, to
their own ambitious projects. It is resting
upon a broken reed to look to such men
for anything patriotic or generous. If
ever the Union shall be repealed it will be
by Englishmen, most assuredly not by
Irishmen. But, suppose it were repealed,
what possible good result could follow
from it ? Ireland had a Parliament some
thirty years ago ; and what did she do with
it? Why,just what might be expected from
what I have shown of her character, that
character Which has been the creation of
so many centuries of disorder, and faction,
and mutual blood-stained antagonism.
What did she do with it ? She sold it.
But I may be told that the people, the great
body of the inhabitants of the country,
had no part in this act of treason. That
is a mere equivocation. The men who sold
the Irish Parliament were the representatives
of the country, the reflection of the
morals, principles, and living spirit of the
general inhabitants. They did that for personal
gain and advancement which all the

other inhabitants should have done, had
they had the same opportunity. This is only
arguing rationally. In the lower strata of
the Irish population we find the same or
similar acts of perfidy and treason perpetrated
every day. When has there been
any movement for the political regeneration
of the country, that has gone outside
the pale of the law, where we do not
find the common people avail themselves
of it in order to promote their own little
interest, by turning spies, and informers,
and perjurers, to such an extent of degradation
and infamy as to render it impossible
almost to describe them. You are
to judge of the representatives of a
people by the people themselves. If the
representatives are unprincipled, corrupt,
and treacherous, depend ujDOnitthe people
by whom they are created, are so too. If,
then, the Act of Union were repealed tomorrow,
we should have only a repetition
of the disorder, anarchy, dissension,
treachery, and infamy which characterized
our former Parliaments. The country
would derive no benefit from it. Better as
it is."

Here the doctor cracked his whip in the

air, threw himself back in his saddle,
and made his horse spring into a bounding
pace. He checked the animal again,
and moved on steadily. The rector had
hitherto maintained an unbroken silence,
save that now and then he would indulge
in a sort of strong respiration, resembling
the puff of a bellows ; as if he wanted to
relieve the tension of his mind, created by
the force and vehemence of the doctor's
logic. At length, lifting himself up in the
saddle, and looking around him into the
distance, as if to catch inspiration from
the glowing atmosphere, he coughed once
or twice, and then said, —

'' It is a strange picture, doctor, and
not more strange than true, I fear. I
wonder who were those Milesian, of
whom wee are all so proud. Were they
Celts, or Goths, or Scythians, or Gauls ?
They are wrapped up in much mystery.
I believe myself, from an examination and
comparison of testimony, that they were
Spaniards, that is, that they came here
from a part of Spain : but I am not
satisfied with respect to their race and
origin. Some think, and with a good deal
of plausibility, that they were of Teutonic

origin, and that they came from Germany,
through Gaul. You remember that Caesar
speaks of the Belgic Gauls, representing
them as passing over the Rhine at an
early stage of history, from the German
wilderness, and supplanting the old Celts
of Gaul, and extending themselves along
the country. They were a bold, enterprising
people, and nothing can be more
probable than their pushing forward their
settlements to Spain and Britain, and
from either or both of these countries to
Ireland. The old annals of Ireland, however,
represent them as having come
originally from Egypt, and as settling
themselves permanently on the coast of
Spain. There is nothing improbable in
that either. But from whatever quarter
they came, or whatever may have been their
origin, they were a most unruly set of
vagabonds."

He darted his spurs unconsciously into
his horse's sides, and rose erect in his
saddle. Then resuming his former easy
position, he went on to say, —

On the subject of the repeal of the
legislative Union Act I agree pretty much
in your views. I cannot well conceive any

VOL. IT. n

advantages that could accrue from it.
Where these countries are so closely connected
geographically, and so identical in
their interests socially and politically, distinct
Governments and Legislatures would
only create disunion and anarchy. There
is nothing, at the present day, nor is
there anything ever likely to occur in the
future, that can prevent the British Parliament
from legislating beneficially for these
countries. If there be any fault at all it
lies with the people of this island, not with
the Government : if they choose to elect
improper representatives, that is their own
fault. To be sure, it may be urged that
the people are so much in subjection to
the landlords that they are unable to return
proper persons to represent them. I
scarcely admit the application of this
argument, because experience constantly
points the other way ; for we see that
where there is no coercion, where the
electors are free to vote as they please,
and where they do so, they elect invariably,
I may say, representatives who
as invariably betray them. But admitting,
for the sake of argument, that this want of
perfect liberty on the part of the electors

is the only reason, or at least the strongest
reason for a repeal of the Union ; why cannot
the British Parliament remedy this
want, and restore freedom to the electors,
as well as an Irish Parliament could do it ?
An Irish Parliament could only effect it
through the combined action of the
people's representatives ; but the people's
representatives, we find, are not favourable
to such a measure ; for if they were,
the British Parliament and Government
would be but too happy to afford them any
relief of this kind which they sought. I
believe sincerely that the Irish voter is, in
many cases, and it may be, in most cases,
Very much trammelled by his subjection to
his landlord, so much so indeed that he can
hardly be said to exercise a free volition in
the exercise of his political franchise ; and
I should on that account desire to see this
state of serfdom removed. A good and
well-considered landlord-and-tenant law
would effect this ; but what I maintain is
that the British Parliament is as likely to
pass such a law as an Irish Parliament
would be ; perhaps more likely, because
an Irish Parliament would be made up of
a majority, if not altogether of Irish land
2

lords, whereas the British Parliament contains,
as compared with the entire body of
representatives, but a very small minority
of Irish landlords. Rely upon it, doctor,
that an Irish Parliament would become intime,
and as a natural sequence of things,
one of our greatest Irish grievances.

Now, I shall take leave to place the
matter in this light. And I need not say
to you, doctor, who know me so well, that
in any observation that I am going to
make, I do not intend to offer the
shadow of an insult to your Church."

Here the doctor drew himself up, fixed
himself firmly in his saddle, and looked
around him ; then stooping forward a little,
he patted his horse, and smiled.

The rector resumed : —

I cannot shut out from my mind — and
I believe it is a fact that no man living in
Ireland for any time, and observant of
passing events will question, that the
Roman Catholic hierarchy of this country
are affected with an unquenchable thirst
for political sower. They have manifested
this at all times, upon all occasions, and
under all circumstances. This I believe to
be one of the greatest, if not the greatest

grievance of wliicli this country has to
complain. I do not speak now, you will
observe, of spiritual or religious matters,
for with regard to these I at once admit,
that your hierarchy have a perfect right to
assert the freedom and equality of their
Church. But I speak not of these things ;
I confine my observations altogether to
purely political questions ; and upon these,
I repeat, your Church has always assumed,
and acted upon the right of dictation, control,
and coercion. This is so well known
to all of us, that it does not require
specific proofs. Well, sir, what I contend
for is, that with this penchant, or principle,
or whatever you may call it, ruling the
conduct of your hierarchy, a Parliament in
Ireland, at the present day, would mean —
admitting that the freedom of the franchise,
which we all contend for as proper
and desirable, were given to the people —
would mean, a Eoman Catholic subordinate
ecclesiastical organization. Now, I ask
you, sir, would that be desirable ? would it
be just and proper ? would it be beneficial
to the people of Ireland, as an integral
portion of the British Empire ? No, sir ; I
believe, and I apprehend you will concur

"udth. me, tlmt a greater infliction could
not be visited upon this unhappy land."

He paused ; puffed a few times, pushed
out his lips, and then looked searchingly
at the doctor. The doctor, however,
maintained an inscrutable silence, merely
chucking up his reins, touching his
horse's ears with his whip, and then
throwing his eyes far into the distance
before him, as if watching a play of
sportive demons.

The rector seeing all this, and feeling
disinclined to reticence, resumed speech.

Have you, doctor, reflected upon the
absurdity, nay folly, criminal folly — of
those misguided people, the Whitefeet,
as they designate themselves ? Here is
another instance, and evidence of the
insane conceptions and impracticable
character of our countrymen. Now, it
may be said, in alleviation of this transparent
folly — I shall call it folly merely,
though it is worse than that — it may be said
that it is not an organization of the people
of this country ; and that it does not express
the national sentiment ; but that it is
merely a secret society composed of ignorant,
idle, and incompetent men, who can have

no views beyond those of mere personal
vanity and self-glorification. I do not
assent to that view of the subject. If that
were really the case, why is the organization
tolerated by the better classes of the
population — by the natural guides of the
people. The persons who compose this
society are — I suppose there cannot be a
doubt upon this head — all members of
your Church. Why, then, does not your
hierarchy put them down ? Why do not
the Roman Catholic gentry, and respectable
farmers, and others possessed of
character and influence, suppress them?
These are very natural questions to ask ;
but I apprehend they are very difficult
questions to answer. We all know those
people are wholly powerless for good ; but
not so for evil. Why are they tolerated
then ? They prey upon the farmers ; they
levy blackmail on the gentry ; they tyrannise
over the farm-labourers and other
dependent persons ; they disturb the public
peace ; and life and property are alike endangered
by them. Yet they are not only
tolerated ; but I believe, further still,
encouraged. Why is this ? What does this
show? In the face of all this — and

mark, sir, this is odIj a part of a system
of things which has ever prevailed in this
country from the remotest times down to
the present, under one shape or another ;
forms and names are indifferent, the principle
being the same ; —-in the face of all
this, it is asked that an independent Parliament
and Government be conferred upon
this country. — Deus vetat tale malum

The doctor felt that he was nailed to a
corner ; that his own arguments were expanded
and enforced with great logical
power, and flung right in the teeth of his
own Church. This galled him a little, and
he showed it. His eyes glistened, like
stars on a frosty night, and a shadow
of pallor just touched his cheeks. He
recovered himself, however ; and after
breathing hard for a few seconds, he threw
up his head, and sounding his whip two or
three times in the air, he thus began : —

You are quite in error, sir, quite in
error. You argue as if the Church assumed
to itself the power and authority of the
State. That is your first error. You then
follow up this error by insinuating that her
remissness in enforcing her authority is a
proof of her complicity in the acts and

proceedings of those organizations or
societies to which you refer. Nothing
can be more at variance with the truth
of the case than this. The Church, sir,
neither assumes authority over the conduct
of secret political societies, nor, in anyway,
identifies herself with them. She
holds aloof from them altogether. The
Church recognizes the perfect freedom of
individual political action, and does not
turn aside from her prescribed course to
reward or punish those who exercise that
freedom. That is altogether left to the
State, as its peculiar and inherent province.
The Church, like the religion which she
teaches, addresses herself to the conscience
alone; and her rewards and punishments
are entirely of a spiritual nature. The
spirit of religion is perfect freedom ; and
so is the spirit of the Church. If men
choose to walk in the path of error, they
may do so : the Church takes no account
of their conduct ; she binds not the body ;
she takes account only of the conscience.

Now, mark the distinction: the Church
enforces the laws of God upon the conscience
; the State enforces the laws of the
land upon the person. When, therefore,

organizations or societies are formed for
purposes contrary to the dictates of religion,
and to the doctrines of the Church,
the Church punishes the individuals forming
such society, not as a body, not as an
organization, but, as distinct and separate
individuals, at her own proper tribunals,
and according to her own distinct mode of
punishment. But, on the other hand, the
State punishes them as a body responsible
for the separate acts of the individuals
composing it ; and it punishes not according
to the conscience, but according to the
law. The Church restrains the conscience ;
the State restrains the body.

And you say, sir, that an Irish Parliament,
under existing circumstances, would
be a subordinate ecclesiastical organization.
That's your second error. There is
nothing in the doctrines of the Church to
warrant such an assumption. The Church,
as such, has never interfered in political
organizations of any kind ; she never can: —
the kingdom of God is not of this world.
The individual members composing the
Church, both lay and clerical, may act
politically, as they may think fit ; the
Church, as the teacher of religion,

cannot interfere with them ; never pretended
to the power of interfering with
them. If we had a Parliament in this
country tomorrow, the several individuals
composing the various constituencies of
the country might vote as they pleased
without fear of the Church: they would
owe no allegiance to the Church on that
point. What then, sir, becomes of your
argument against an Irish Parliament ?

*' But you will say that the Church has
interfered politically both in this and in
other countries, on various occasions, and
at various periods of her history. I say,
never. I saj^ she could not, she dare not.
Has she interfered on that grandest
theatre of political action which the history
of the world, ancient or modern, has presented
to our view, the Republic of
America ? If it were within her province
to interfere at all, it would be here, in that
grand resurrection of human liberty, where
a new world was springing up, as it were,
from the ruins of the old, and bidding fair
to concentrate within itself all the greatness,
and majesty, and civilization of the
human race, — has she interfered here ? An
example in our own time, and under our

own eyes, such as this, is worth all the
confused rubbish of antagonistic sectarian
history that has ever flung its murky and
darkening shadows over the pathway of
Truth.

*' You will point to Rome, perhaps, for
an example of political interference on the
part of the Church. Wrong again. The
Church, even in Some, the seat of her
headship, has never taught — she dared not
teach — that it was her mission or any part
of her mission to direct and control the
political destinies of the people. Some of
her members, it is true, with the Pope at
their head, have for long ages, governed a
large portion of Italy; but they have
governed it not in virtue of any power the
Church committed to them, or could commit
to them; but solely in accordance
with the wishes of the people. Now, you
will say, of course, that the people of
Ireland, being for the most part members
of the Church, would, in the event of their
being granted a Parliament and Government
of their own, confer all political
power and authority upon the Pope, or his
representatives, the hierarchy of Ireland.
You would be wrongs there again. The

people of Ireland have never evinced any
desire to submit their temporal government
to the power of the Church ; but supposing
it possible that any such absurd
notion seized them, in what way could they
effect their purpose ? As long as the King
of England remains also King of Ireland,
nothing save defeat in the battlefield can
wrest the crown of Ireland from its
possessor. But in what position is the
Pope to accomplish this overthrow of
British power ? Pshaw ! the idea is simply
absurd.

'' No, sir ; Ireland can never under any
circumstances fall under the temporal
authority of the Pope. There need be no
alarm on that score. It is nit under any
vague and absurd notion of that sort that
I am led to the conclusion that a repeal of
the Union would be of no service to
Ireland, but, on the contrary, of great disadvantage;
it is on far different grounds
I arrive at this conclusion. As I have
already said, mutual opposition, dissension,
and hatred, leading up to anarchy and civil
strife, would be the first inevitable result
of this measure. This is the conclusion of
experience and of a studied knowledge of

the character of my countrymen. This
state of things would of course be followed
by the usual train of evils flowing from such
a source ; and calamity the direst, and
evils the most deplorable would be the
consequence to Ireland. Well, such a
state of things could not last ; it must terminate
; and how ? Why, in the usual
way, to be sure; the iron hand of
despotism should again be laid upon the
unfortunate land ; and her last condition
would be made worse than her first. Yes,
sir ; that is it, rely upon it."

The doctor having thus relieved himself
from the pressure of his thoughts, looked
round gaily, and smiled a smile of mingled
benignity and triumph upon his reverend
companion.

Well," observed the rector, apparently
discomfited, and looking down intently
upon the pummel of his saddle; "well,
that may be all right, for anything that I
can absolutely prove to the contrary ; but,
at all events, I feel perfectly clear as to the
inadvisability of repealing the Union. I
think all men, at least all reflecting and
disinterested men, must agree in this. But
you have not explained how it is that you

permit those misguided people, called
Whitefeet, to continue their mad orgies,
disturbing the public peace, and distracting
the minds of the peaceful and industrious'


The doctor looked at him with an air of
comic surprise, as if he thought that his
reverend friend was falling into a state of
reverie, and was unconscious of the purport
of his own language. Then urging
his horse a little closer to him, he said ina
calm undertone, —

Do you suppose that I, or the Catholic
hierarchy, or the Church constitute the
government of these realms ? My dear sir,
to put the Whitefeet up, or to put them
down, is altogether the work of the civil
authority. You are aware that we do
all that lies within our province ; we exhort
the people in season and out of season, to
obey the laws, and to live peaceably
together ; we keep the law of the Gospel
constantly before them. That is our duty ;
more we cannot do. Do you perceive ? "

'' Oh, just so, just so," replied the rector,
as if awakening from a trance; *'I see,
I see. Well, I hope at all events, that
some improvement may shortly take place

amongst the people ; I care not from what
quarter it comes."

By this time they had arrived at a
branch road which led towards the
residence of Dr. Markham. Here they
shook hands most cordially, and parted ;
the doctor dashing the spurs into his
horse's flanks, and galloping off at a
spanking pace ; the rector just shaking
his bridle and rising in his saddle to the
movement of a gentle trot.

CHAPTER Xii

PADDY LAEKIN HAS AN INTERVIEW WITH THE

General OF THE WHITEFEET VARIOUS

PLANS PROPOSED, AND Propositions MADE.

In a day or two after that on which
occurred the events related in the last
chapter, Paddy Larkin rose early. He had
made up his mind to see the general of
that portion of the organization of the
army of the Whitefeet to which he himself
belonged, and which was embraced
within that section of country lying between
the towns of Cushport and Corrig-
castle, along the line of the river Orma,
and extending to the hills and mountains
above the village of Ballydine. With this
view, therefore, he had suspended his
labour in the harvest-fields and gone to
rest awhile at his mother's cottage, which
lay among the hills.

VOL. TI. I

The morning was fine and beautiful,
and promised to be succeeded by a day of
unusual sultriness.

After he had risen he walked out to
take the morning air, and stretch his limbs.
When he got about a hundred yards from
the cottage, on the top of a small hillock
that stood out from the mountain range,
he gazed around him, and drank in the
delicious balm of the mountain air, and
feasted his eyes on the varied scenery
which lay scattered on every side.

Paddy was a stout, well-built, muscular
man, and possessed no small share of that
chastening romance for which his countrymen
are generally distinguished. The
heath grew in rich luxuriance at his feet,
and along the base of the mountain above
him; the rocks, large or small, covered
with fungus, or shaded with tall grass and
fern, lay scattered about in wild disorder.
Stone fences, slight and rickety, and thick
heroes, crowned with furze and decorated
with fern, straggled and strayed in every
combination of lines and figures along the
base of the mountain, and down deep into
the glen or hollow beneath. The mountain
looked grand and defiant in the early light

of the approaching sun ; and the glen, and
the plain, and the distant vale of Orma
looked bright and smiling in the soft and
tremulous radiance.

It was at once a grand and a softening
scene, and Paddy felt its full influence. He
was not a man, as we have hinted, that could
look upon such a scene and not feel it.
He did feel it, and imbibed its full force.
His spirit rose as he glanced up at the
huge aspiring mountain that lifted its head
amid the clouds, and looked proudly down
on the subject vale. He felt as if he
wished to see his country's foes advancing
up that vale, and he himself, with a few
thousand men at his back, advancing down
to meet them. Roused by the thought, he
raised his voice aloud, and shouted, —

*' Quid Ireland for ever ! "

No sooner had the echoes died among
the hanging rocks and deep indentations of
the mountain side, than he heard at a little
distance below him, and towards his right
hand, an answering shout bearing the
burden, —

Hurroo, here I am, by Japers."

He felt a little startled, like a man
waking from a reverie, and looked around
I 2

him ; not, indeed, at first towards the spot
whence the shout had emanated, but towards
the opposite direction. His eye having
sought the scene to the left and rear of
him, it at length rested in the direction of
the voice ; and he immediately saw, emerging
from a crevice of the hill, a man, whom
he at once recognized as Denny Mullins,
the piper.

Denny, who had recognized the voice of
his friend the moment he had heard it, and
in this he was aided by the knowledge that
he was in the neighbourhood of his residence,
came forward with an air of the
most unruffled composure, and hailed his
friend with, —

'' God's blessing' to you this fine morning',
Paddy ! "

By the tonnes you frightened me,"
was the reply ; followed by the question,
Where in the world are you coming' from
so early in the morning', Denny ? "

From Gurtroo, in truth," answered
Denny, " there was hould the light at
Bartley the Devil's last night, and I left
the house 'before day, when they were all
stretched about everywhere ; some in the
parlour, and some in the kitchen, and some,

by tripes, in the stable. Oculi, 'twas tally
heiglio ! the grinder there ; hee-e-e ! hee-e-e !
Paddy, do you know what ? Listen tome.


By this time the two friends had sat
down upon the edge of a large rock, half-covered
with fern.

'' Listen to me, I say. See now, that
young Croker is one of the greatest devils
I ever heard tell of. His ould father the
'tourney, is nothing' to him — God help us ;
and sure every one thought there was no
beaten' him anyhow. Well, 'tis the truth
I'm tellin' you. What does he do ? — the
young civil, I mane — he goes and puts
powder in ould Tim Duffy's breeches, the
crater, when he was lying' drunk in the backyard,
in the middle of the night, and the
moon shining', and he drops some of the
powder along his legs, and out ever sofar
from him, all in a line ; and then puts
a rushhght to the end of the line, and, och !
the crater was blew up sky high."

Paddy listened with absorbed attention
while Denny related the horrible tale of the
young ruffian s conduct, grinding his teeth
occasionally, and squeezing his chin with
his right hand ; but at the conclusion he

jumped from his seat, and raising his right
arm aloft and pointing to the sun, he swore
by that luminary that he would never rest
until he took revenge for that base and
villainous act. Then, turning round, his
eyes flashing fire and his chest heaving
with emotion, he asked, —

Is my uncle dead ? "

'' Och, no, the craters'* was the reply ;
didn't I go and take him up and bring
him into the back kitchen ; and there we
stripped him, myself and ould Betty, the
shore, till we brought him to his senses ;
and then we rubbed him with something
Betty brought, and put him to bed. He
was sleeping' hearty when I left the
house."

'ris there any danger of him?" asked
Paddy.

Och, no, the sorrow o' bit of danger ant
all, when he'll waken up. You see, how it
was, when the powder missed fire, the
crater was dead drunk, and he had no more
feeling' than this stone I'm sitting' on."

This reply seemed to calm down the
passion which had agitated Paddy at the
thought that his uncle had been murdered
by Bartley the Devil's son. He resumed

his seat, and throwing one leo: over the
other and folding bis arms softly over his
chest, he commenced to whistle, in tones
rich and melodious, " Good-night, and jos
be with you all."

Denny listened for awhile in evident
of the performance, and at
length, taking up the green bag which lay
at his side, he opened it, and taking out
his pipes, he placed them across his knees,
fastening the bellows under his right arm,
and jerking the bag under the left — and
commenced to play the same tune in harmony
with the whistle of his friend.

Thus they continued for a considerable
time, filling the morning air with their
combined melody ; inclining their heads to
each other, every now and then, and half
closing their eyes, as if carried away in the
full tide of the glowing music.

At length they ceased ; and Paddy, turning
round to his companion, asked him to
play the "Exile of Erin."

Denny complied at once, and did amplest
justice to the air.

When he ceased, Paddy took it up, and
sang the song itself, with a richness of
intonation and a perfection of taste that

was truly astonishing in one from whose
appearance and manner the reader could
scarcely expect anything of tenderness or
grace.

Paddy," said the piper, after a pause,
there is one song you must sing for me
now, and I'll join in id wit the chanter ;
'tis " The Maid of Ballydine."

Paddy drew a deep sigh, and then said, —
Yes, Denny, that's what you may calla
song. Do you know my heart warms
to Master Herbert on account of that song.
He made it about myself and Anty ; and
there he drew out my heart as plain as if
if it was 'before your eyes. Howsomever,
here goes. Soft, soft wit the chanter.

The Maid of Balltdine.

Ye Muses all, in heaven's high hall,

Pray lend me all your aid,
While I entwine a wreath of song
For my sweet charming maid.

For she is fair, — her worth is rare, —

Her praises to define
Would be too much for one poor bard ;—
The Maid of Ballydine.

She's tall and straight, as blade of wheat
That in the valley grows ;

Her step is light, her eye is clear,
Her teeth are ivory rows.
No music floats ia silvery notes

More thrilling, more divine,
Than the sweet cadence of her lips, —
The Maid of Ballydine.

Her smile is bright, like glancing light

That gilds the laurel shade ;
And mild her glance as early dawn
In mellow tints aiTay'd.

Oh-what can be earth's cares to me,

Since now her love is mine ; —
Deep in my heart embalm'd shall live
The Maid of Ballydine.

Do you know, Denny," lie said, as lie
concluded the song, " I would like to bean
exile for the sake of the ould country.
If a man isn't able to free her, that is,
supposing' he tried, 'twould be a glory to
suffer for her anyhow. Did you hear anything
about the boys in your travels over
the mountains ? They say that Gurtroo is
ripe. I wasn't up there a long time, but
I'd like to have a look about the place. I
wonder is Bartley sneaking' around there.
The ould keeper of hell will never have his
rights till Bartley enters his demesne.
That's my opinion, Mr. Dennis Mullins,
master of music I "

As lie uttered the last words lie looked
proudly, yet cheerfully, into the face of
Denny, who felt the compliment thus paid
him, and replied, —

I'm entirely obliged to your honour,
Mr. Patrick Larkin, would chieftain of
Ireland — hee-e-e ! hee-e-e ! "

Paddy laughed heartily too, and jumping
off the rock, he stretched himself, swelled
out his chest, and then looked into the air,
saying,—

*''Tis a glorious morning', glory be to
God. Come, Denny, 'tis breakfast-time ;
and we are both up a good start ; so, I
think we'll be able to do justice to whatever
the ould woman is ready to give us."

They descended the side of the hillock,
and after a few minutes' scrambling among
the detached rocks, furze, fern, and long
grass which lay scattered in their path,
they arrived at the cottage of Peg Duffy,
as Paddy's mother was familiarly called.

The cottage was really a comfortable
one, though rather curiously situated and
constructed. It was built in the scoop of
a large rock, which seemed as if it had
been cut by art, instead of being the work
of nature ; so straight, smooth, and perpendicular

was its face. This rock constituted
three of the four walls which formed the
body of the cottage. The fourth wall was
the work of art, and consisted of a few
stout boulders interspersed and bound together
by smaller stones, without mortar
or cement, or any artificial adornment
whatever, save that the interstices were
filled with broom, and heath, and fresh
fern, which drooped down in festoons, and
covered the greater part of it. The spots
which revealed themselves, of this wall,
were shining in whitewash, and pleasant to
the eye from the contrast which they presented
with their surroundings This wall,
which constituted the front of the building,
was furnished with a door, painted green,
and was flanked on one side with a window or
airhole, consisting of two panes of patched
and broken glass, which together with the
door admitted light and air into the interior
of the dwelling. The roof, which was composed
of rough-hewn timber, was covered
with sods, and broom, and furze, and
looked fresh and blooming from the long
grass and blossoms which flourished gaily
along its entire surface. The chimney was
constructed of rough slabs, protected by

strips of turf, thick, hard, and brown;
and from its orifice, on the occasion we
speak of, there issued a thick grey smoke
which bespoke the culinary process going
on within.

Paddy and his companion having, as we
have said, wound their way down the de-cavity,
through rocks and scrub, arrived
at the narrow passage that led in a zigzag
line to the door of the cottage. This passage
was guarded by lofty rocks on either
side, growing up from the breast of the
hill, and presenting the appearance of a
fortified citadel. They passed up this
narrow, fortified way for several paces,
until they arrived in view of the green door
and the two-pane window. Both were
open to admit the morning air, for the
window was so constructed as to move on
something like a pivot when required.
They entered, and immediately encountered
the fume — a pleasant and delicious
odour — of stewed bacon and hare. It
arose from an iron pot suspended from a
hook at the end of a crooked stick that
hung, blackened with smoke and soot,
from the open chimney-place.

Peg Duffy and Denny interchanged

cordial greetings, and seemed as though
they had known each other from infancy ;
and in truth they had, for, as Peg herself
said, she " knew him since he wasn't bigger
than his bagpipes."

A little cross-leo^o^ed table was laid in the
chimney-corner, and covered with a coarse
brown, but clean cloth. As soon as Pes:
had heard that her son, and some stranger,
as she thought, were coming, she poured
out from a small wicker vessel, or sMqucjIi
as it was called, a quantity of hot, smoking
potatoes, bursting from their coats, upon
the table. And after having saluted her
friend, Denny, as we have seen, she also
took the stew from the pot, and placed it
upon wooden platters beside the potatoes.
She then went to the dresser, which
stood against the back wall of the room,
and, opening a drawer, drew from it two or
three slices of oaten bread, in the shape of
half-moons, and threw them upon the
table. After this, she lifted the lid of a
pail, or wooden vessel which stood upon
the table of the dresser, and from it she
filled three higgins of skimmed milk, pure
and delicious, and laid them also upon the
table. The breakfast was thus constituted.

'there now, boys," she said, "your
breakfast is to the fore, and sit down and
ate it. Sure, 'tis as good as I have ; and
if it was a hundred times better you'd be
welcome to it, Denny Mulhns, or any one
belonging' to you. Long before you were
born I was made welcome at your mother's
house, and would to-day if I went there,
as I do sometimes ; so sit down, and break
your fast this long morning'. Sure, maybe,
you were up before day, and to be here at
this time. Maybe you travelled far over
the hills, and didn't take a bit or a sup
since you left home. Sit down there now,
and try to ate a bit."

They did sit down to the table, Denny
and his friend, and commenced to regale
themselves on fare that, considering the
time and season, and their morning exercise,
especially that of Denny, was not to
be despised. Despised, did we say? It
was fare fit for a prince.

And now while they are regaling themselves,
and talking over events and circumstances,
past and present, which
afforded them interest ; and while Peg is
urgent and earnest with her guest " to ate
hearty and not to make Strong e^^' we shall

devote a few minutes to a brief review of
Peg Duffy, alias Mrs. Larkin, lier life and
fortunes.

Peg Duffy was the daughter of a substantial
and respectable farmer who had
lived in the same county and in the same
parish in which she was herself now
residing. He had many sons and many
daughters, all of whom, with one or two
exceptions, Peg herself being one, were well
married and well settled in life. Peg, or
Peggy, as she was called in her younger
and gayer days, was a jovial pleasant girl,
and fair to be looked at. But she had her
whims and her fancies, and these were not
exactly in accordance with her interests,
or with what might be called good sound
sense. She was an upright, moral girl,
however ; and never did, nor could ever be
induced to do anything that was calculated
to bring a stain upon her character. She
knew the duties of her religion, and she
discharged them faithfully and punctually.
She frequented patterns and fairs, it is
true ; and she danced and sang, and
laughed, and made merry with the boys ;
but she committed no error, at least no
very serious error in all this. It might

be objected to her that lie broke through
that decent and becoming reserve which,
as the daughter of a respectable farmer,
she should have maintained; but this
might be excused on the ground, as she
used to say herself, that she didn't like to
turn a cold shoulder to neighbours' children
because they were poor. Whether she was
right in this or not it is not clear, and we do
not say she was wrong, provided that she
observed a proper medium in her intercourse
with persons below her own rank. But
Peggy was a very free-and-easy girl, and
the continuous practice of her own maxim,
which, at best, was a doubtful one, that she
ought not to make any difference between
people, because some happened to be rich
and some happened to be poor," led her by
degrees into a snare where her prospects
in life, and her true happiness were shipwrecked
for ever.

Paddy Larkin the elder, that is, the man
who afterwards became her husband, and
after whom our present acquaintance, her
son, was called, was one of those young
men who were embraced within the circle
of Peggy's 'poor, but decent'' friends.
He was a " likely boy " as the neighbours

said, and " fit for any lady of the land;"
and so Peggy seemed to think too, forgetting
everything but her free-and-easy disposition
; and yielding herself up to the
fascinating bubble of the passing hour.
She became attached to him, and yielded
to his entreaties to become united to him
in marriage. He was, as we have said, a
good-looking young man, an object of rural
applause at the dance, on the hurling green,
and wherever rustic accomplishments were
to be exhibited to the gaze of admiration.
He was a first-rate hand in a fight, too ;
and to crown all, he was a patriot of the
first water.

Now, when we say that he was a
^^ patriot's we do not mean to insinuate
that he was wrong, or that his character
was deteriorated on that account. 'Not
at all. On the contrary, the principle of
patriotism conferred honour, and not disgrace
upon his character, in our estimation.
But he was a foolish patriot, that is, while
he possessed the high virtue of loving his
country, he permitted that virtue to
degenerate into a love of faction, of
disorder, of anarchy. He joined every
sort of organization that had for its object

VOL. IT. K

to oppose the laws, the ordinances, the
peace, and the repose of his country. He
hated prosperous men, and rich men ; and
as for men in power he deemed their
existence the greatest curse that his country
suffered under. He failed, as may be seen,
in that moderation and good sense, which
alone can give efficacy to the spirit and
virtue of patriotism. He would die for
his country, if need were, it is true ; but
that is patriotism run mad, for he seemed
not to care whether the cause or the
struggle in which he was satisfied to die,
was a wise, a just, a holy one, or not.

Such was Paddy Larldn the elder, and
such was the man, a poor, labouring man,
without property, without good sense,
without understanding, but with a fine
person, and a rollicking disposition, whom
Peggy Duffy, the respectable farmer's
daughter, and the beautiful, virtuous, and
noble hearted girl consented to marry.
The consequences were, as must have been
anticipated, Paddy was killed in a patriotic
faction fight between the Recites, a
political organization established, like the
Whitefeet, for the liberation of Ireland,
whatever that meant, and a party of the

king's troops ; and to Peggy was born a
boy, shortly afterwards, whom she had
baptized and called Paddy, after his
renowned father.

From that time down to the moment we
present her to our readers, Peggy's life
had been one of continuous unbroken toil
and hardship, devoted to the support of
herself and her son ; and relieved from the
full pressure of this hapless lot only when
young Paddy began to be employed as a
house or field servant by the neighbouring-gentry
and farmers. But the assistance
thus afforded to her could not, after all, be
called much ; for Paddy was able to spend,
and did spend upon himself nearly the
whole of his earnings ; so that Peg had to
toil on without intermission. That her son
promised much better than his father the
reader, by this time, will be apt to doubt :
for it is clear that the ways of the one were
the ways of the other ; and that darkness,
and sorrow, and it may be, shame and disgrace
appeared to loom in poor Paddy's
horizon.

Well, we shall now attend to the
breakfast-table. Both men partook very
heartily of the viands before them.

Begot," said Denny, continuing some
remarks which he had made before, '' 'tis
as good eaten' as any man need look for;
the bacon, you see, flavours the hare, and
makes it taste sweet. I never knew a man,
Paddy, smarter than yourself to trip up a
hare, and they're cute rogues too ; if you
don't take them on the hop, there'd only
laugh at you. The net is a grand thing to
catch 'em, when you know where to put it,
and when the dog follows 'em strong.
That's a solid dog of yours, Bran : he's
getting' ould now; but there's good work
in him yet. Oh, no more, no more now,
Mrs. Larkin ; I am stuffed to the neck, I
couldn't ate another bit if I was to be
transported."

"Well, I am done, too," said Paddy.
'' It's not very bad eat in' as you say,
Denny : a man might go further and speed
worse. But talking' of speed, 'tis time forme
now to be starting'. I have to go to
Corrigcastle to-day, and by the time I am
there, and have transacted a little business,
'twill be late enough on me coming' back.'^

*' Oh, Yia," exclaimed his mother,
*' maybe, 'tis Sunday 'ud bring you home.
Whenever you go down to that town, you

don't be in a great hurry coming' back.
I'm against your going' there at all ; I don't
know what business you have there,
exception' foolish business. That's the
way your father used to be spending' his
time ; and God be merciful to him, 'tis
little look or grace he ever got out of such
meandering."

My father was a good man," observed
Paddy, and if others were like him, Ireland
'ud be free to day. But no, they wouldn't
stir hand or foot for the poor country,
but leave her to her innimies to be trampled
under foot. That's the way 'tis. Are you
coming' down along, Denny ? "

Denny answered in the affirmative.

But Peg Duffy busied herself with the
affairs of the kitchen, putting everything
in order, and while doing so, ejaculating
now and then, —

*' Och, 'tis all very fine. Free, indeed !
Ireland free ! we're hearing tell of that
since we were born, and 'isn't free yet.
I wonder what is it to be free ? Och, sure,
what could it be but to be killed, or hanged,
maybe, thaws to he free''

As she proceeded in this strain, Paddy
was putting on his clean stockings, and

tying the ribbons of his breeches below
his knees. After this he took and rubbed
his beaver, or Sunday hat ; and then taking
a stout whitethorn stick from the chimney,
where it lay suspended, he walked out, followed
by Denny and his green bag.

They walked along slowly down the
winding passage between the rocks, across
rocky elevations, along through ravines
bristling with furze and thorn, across
rivulets which murmured dreamily in their
almost dried np channels; and up and
down through the broken mountain
country, keeping their footsteps in the
direction of Ballydine. But as they went
along they held grave discourse on things
past, present, and to come; and thus
beguiled the way.

'' Hark'ee, Paddy," said Denny, drawing
up close to his companion, as though he
feared that the rocks would overhear
him ; "is there anything going' on ? What
are the boys coin' now ? '^

There is deep work in hand," replied
Paddy; "but 'tis hard to tell yet when
the risen' will begin. We must settle
every thing right in the Adonis of Freedom,
that is, we must appoint the officers high

and low, and look to the arms. And
besides that, we must take down the names
of everyone, rich and poor, that's to contribute
to the support of the army. Great
regulations must be made, and then, after
that, the bonfires'll blaze on the hill, far
and near ; and that's the way the thing is
to be done. The most knowledgeable menin
the Grand 'Sociation say that 'won't
take one month to free Ireland, when everything
is laid down in prime order in the
beginning'. Well, then, maybe we'll have
our own at last. You see the blow must
be struck hot and quick, and there'll be no
failure after. What lost Ireland always
was, that they were never ready ; and were
vain' with one another about the command
of the army. But now we have a man at the
head of affairs that all Ireland will follow,
and — hould your ear here ; " he stopped,
bent over to Denny, put his mouth to his
ear, and whispered low : *' That man is
Dan himself J^ ■

Denny drew himself up, looked at his
companion, and then sprang two feet from
the ground, his pipes under his arm, and
shouted, —

Ould Ireland for ever''

The echoes around took up the shout
and repeated '' Oulcl Ireland for ever ! "

Yes, Denny," continued tie patriot,
'twill be a grand day for Ireland, when
aim be right with her, and, as I tell you,
there's nothing wanted for that now, but
the preparations. So that when she is all
right, and the chains struck off, every man
can live at his ease, and sing the ' Bony
Bush of Lockers,' all the day long. Maybe,
'tis in Whitmore Castle yourself and
myself would be living then." Here the
thought of the mighty change fired him,
and he sprang into the air with the strength
and elasticity of a deer ; and whirled his
blackthorn stick several times around his
head, to the manifest danger of Denny and
his pipes.

Denny seeing the enthusiasm of his
friend, and not knowing how far it
might carry him, flung himself on the
ground, and watched him with mingled
admiration and awe. At length, Paddy
having subsided into his former mood,
Denny rose from his prostrate position,
and they both proceeded calmly on their
way. ^

I'm thinking' commenced Denny, his

head bent forward, and his underlip protruded,
as he strolled on by the side of his
companion, '' I'm thinking', I wonder will
there be much: rogers, with their red coats,
and their blunderbuss, train' to kill the
poor people. Such," shaking his shoulders,
and drawing in a long breath, " I
wouldn't like to see the red rogers at all.
But, hark'ee, Paddy, who'll be the generals
in the Army of Freedom ? Is it green coats
they'll have on 'em ? "

I tell you what it is, my man," said
Paddy, with a proud air, and almost forgetting
the person he was addressing,
there'll be generals there that'll surprise
the country ; would, daring' generals that'll
think no more of shivering any hardhearted
traitor than of eaten' his breakfast. There
is to be a general of the Ballydine division,
one of the boldest men in the camp. Do
you know him yet ? "

No, in troth," answered Denny.
*' Would you like to know ? "
Oh, by all manner of means."
Well, I'll tell you ; but you must keep
counsel till the time comes. His name is
one Larry Doherty, General JDolierty, I'm
going' to see him to day, to get instructions.

And listen to me, Denny, I'm to be ibis
Aidyy Gamp.'''

He looked at Denny, with a lofty air,
and asked, —

What do you say to that ? "

Denny stopped up, shifted his pipes from
one arm to the other, pursed out his lips,
and looked at his companion from head to
foot, and back from foot to head. He
seemed literally amazed.

At length he said in measured tones, —

And, Paddy Larkin, may I make
would to ask you, what sort of a thing is
an Aidyy Gamp ? is it a sort of a general, or
ivhat is it f "

'' Denny," replied the other, in equally
measured phrase, 'you are an ignorant
man in army regulations. But, no blame
to you. You were coin' nothing all your
life but blowing them pipes, and regulation'
the drones and the chanter ; you never
studied the nature of the army or navy, or
anything else of the sort, and so you areas
blind, in regard to standing' and promotion
in the Army of Freedom, as the child
unborn. I'll tell you now what is an Aidyy
Gamp : 'tis a generals you may say, but
he'll act as such, only when the General of

Division is shot as dead as a doornail.
"When Larry Dohertj, that is, General
Doherty will be shot the first day, please
God, then the Aidyy Camp, that's myself,
won't be an Aidyy Camp any more, but '11
be General LarJdii of the Grand Division of
Bally dine in the Army of Freedom. Maybe,
now you understand the meaning' of the
word, Denny Mullins, my man."

And he ao^ain SDrano- from the sound,
hitting his body near the coat tail, with
one of his heels, and sending forth a shout
that resembled the yell of a beast of prey.
Denny looked at him again, in evident
amazement, and said, with apparent
interest, —

And supposing' General Doherty wasn't
shot, what would the Aidyy Camp do ? "

'' What would he do ? " repeated Paddy;
*' why, what would he do but fire away like
the civil as long as there was a roger
'before him. Do you think 'tis asleep he 'ud
go ? 'No, Denny ; believe me, there'll be
nothing' there but thunder, and lightning',
and blazing' away as long as there's an
inimy alive.

I wonder," he continued, after a pause,
*' what is that lycia of a rogue half-fool

of a rogue) Joe Wliitmore, going' to do when
lie's drove spinning' out of his castle. And
for the matter of that, 'tis little right he
has to that same castle, if there was justice
in the country. The hostlioon (blabbing
fool) is lookin' after Miss Fanny Moore,
just as if he was fit to wipe her shoes.
'Twould be a queer day that 'ud see that
girl married to the like of him. No,
Master Herbert is the man for her, he is
a man and a gentleman. And what is
Whitmore ? nothing' but a mean low bladder,
bragging' and boasting' like a beggar
on horseback ; and no more of the gentleman
in him than in ould Moil Dreelin',
Anty's mother. Anty, please God, will be
Mrs. Larkin before long. But she must
wait till the war is over, and we'll all have
our rights."

Denny was in deep meditation while
Paddy was thus giving vent to his feelings;
but when he had concluded, Denny said,
in cautious and measured tones, —

Joe Whitmore is a designing' and dangerous
man ; I tell you that, Paddy,
because I know it. 'Twas only the night
'before last he sent for me to play at the
Castle ; and what do you think ? He

brought me into the parlour when all were
cleared out, and no one there but himself ;
and says he to roe, ' Denny,' says he, ' you
know all about the Whitefeet, and tell me
now,' says he, ' who is joined in 'em. I'm
for 'em myself,' says he, 'because this
country is oppressed, and I want to free
it,' says he, ' and,' says he, ' the best way to
go to work is to join together,' says he,
and drive the English Government out of
the country,' says he. ' And, now,' says
he, ' tell me who is to be their generals,' says
he. 'Isn't Mr. Grranville,' says he, 'to be one
of their generals?' says he, 'and sure that's
all right,' says he; 'I 'ud like,' says he, 'to
be one of their generals, too,' says he. ' So,'
says he, 'you may tell me everything about
'em,'says he. ' And look here, Denny,' says
he, ' I'd like to know where they meet,' says
he, ' so that I might go and join 'em,' says
he. Well, myself listened to him, and, faith,
I smelt a rat ; because why ? I'll tell you.
The captain, that is, John Gorman, put
me on my guard against him, and would
me not to let on anything to him, but topick
out of him everything I could. So, I
remembered his words ; and, in troth, I
watched him cute enough, eYorj word he

said ; and so I would the captain. Believe
me, Paddy Larkin, that Whitmore must be
watched. "What the captain would me is
that Whitmore is train' to put Master
Herbert out of the way, till he 'ud get Miss
Fanny himself. "What do you say to that
now?"

I see," said Paddy, pressing his lips
tightly together, and clenching his fist, '' I
see, Denny."

"Well," he continued, " maybe, we 'ud
show him into the secrets, and transmits
him into a general. Whee-e-u-u ! "

He paused, and then burst into a laugh
that seemed to suffocate him, so deep and
prolonged was the agitation it had produced
on him, but recovering himself, after a
time, he merely observed, —

I never met a bigger fool than that
fellow; he 'ud like to be a great rogue, if
he could, but his foolishness spoils it.
He is like a gun crammed with wet powder,
or a sword with a broken edge.
That's my opinion of that hoolam sJceoiigh
(swaggering fool) : so, Denny, my man,
don't be frightened about him ; we'll make
him shake in his breeches."

They then went along in silence, as if

tliej had been exhausted by the mental
exertion which the topics they had been
discussing called forth.

After a considerable time, spent apparently
in grave reflection, Paddy again
spoke, and said, —

j^o, Denny Mullins, it isn't Joe Whit-more,
the hosthooii, we need be much afeard
of ; for though he is a bad man, and would
do all the harm he could, still and all, he
been' a sort of a fool into the bargain, he
is not able to do much. The man we have
the best right to be afeared of is Bartley
Crosier. That's the man: for if there's a
civil on the face of the world, he is him.
Now, Denny, do you know the difference
between the two villains ? You don't, God
help you, how could you ? You're not the
man, Denny, to take your bit of chalk and
draw out on the wall, or on a board, the
four quarters of a real, blazing' rogue ; and
then say, thais him, No, in troth, you're
not. And why ? answer me that. Bekase,
I'll tell you, 'tis inside of the shirt the
biggest and blandest part of a rogue is
hid, and the littlest part outside the shirt.
You can't see through his shirt, Denny ;
'tis only what's outside you can see.

That's the reason you'll never answer for
an Inspector General of Policed

Here he fell into another fit of laughter,
after which he resumed, —

The difference 'between Joe Whitmore
and Bartley Croker is the same as 'between
a civil that's grew full size, stout and
hearty, and another civil that's only just
weaned, and crawling' about the floor, after
leaving' the cradle. You 'ud want to be
takin' care of yourself when the big one is
hard by, but there 'ud be no danger of the
little one, bekase you could walk on the
crater, or kick him out of your way. The
Grand ^ Sociation of Ireland have all the
rogues marked and numbered, just the
same as bullocks at a fair ; you often seen
bits of paper on their tails, well, that's the
same way the 'Sociation have marks on the
rogues and traitors of Ireland. Whenever
one of 'em is to be picked out, there's
nothing' to be done but to read out his
number out of the big book where 'tis kept,
and then appoint a man or two to do the job.
Do you mind me, Denny ? That's the way
'tis. When did you see Bartley Croker ?
oh, last night. Who was 'long with
him ? "

Denny appeared scarce conscious of the
question thus put to him, for he had been
for some minutes previously absorbed in
deep thought, during which his lips moved
incessantly, and his mouth was, from
time to time, drawn towards either cheek,
as if he were labouring under a series of
spasms. He would sometimes, too, chuck
the green bag under his arm ; or take it
away, and balance it upon his hands, as if
taking the weight of it.

At length he stopped short, evidently
aware that something had been said requiring
an answer; and turning half round
looked, with a vacant stare, his mouth
wide open, into the face of his companion,
ejaculating, at the same time, —

"Eh, ah?"

Paddy looked at him ; and then smiled
a smile of mingled pity and contempt — the
pity, however, largely predominating.
And he said, —

Och, Grod help you, poor crater ; in
troth, I believe, if Ireland was rolling' in
the stream, and a gorgon would be able to
stop her, you wouldn't have the sense to
put out your hand till 'twas too late to
help. Didn't you mind what I was say in'

VOL. IE. L

to you this mint ? Who was 'long wit
Bartley Croker last night when you were
there plain' of your dhoJcauns (pipes ) ? "
'' Oh, aye," was the prolonged reply of
the piper, as he drew his hand over his
mouth, and then conveyed it to his left
ear, which he began to feel and press, as
though it were the organ of reflection, and
from which he was striving to squeeze out
some answer. '' Oh, aye ; who was 'long
vv^id him ? 'long wit Bartley Croker ? why
thin, the most o' the hunt was there ; not
meaning', by course, that they were a hunting
that day — the season isn't come yet,
d'you mind ? And a fine season 'twill be
when the harvested be all in, glory be to
God. There's no show but the sio-ht of
stacks of wheat and oats, and all sorts of
plenty, everywhere about the country
now. "What myself was thinking' if the
rogers 'ud burn it all, what would the
Yv'orld do ? They say that starvation follies
the troubles (insurrection) always ; and 'tis
plain to be seen, sure enough ; since
what's to be done but to put a spark to the
stacks and the ricks, and, maybe, the
houses, and off they'll go in one blast, that
you 'ud see on the top of Corrasnachtha

Hill. In troth, 'tis bad work ; only that
the poor ould country must be freed from
the robbers that's holding' her down on
her knees, the same as a beggar that 'ud
be lookin' for something' to ate. Only for
the ould woman, my poor mother, and
those poor pipes, 1 wouldn't grudge linden'
a hand to help the poor ould country out
o' the scrape. I wonder, Paddy, will
the rogers come handy to Glen Corril;
bekase if they did, I 'ud want to take the
ould woman to some place where they
wouldn't catch her. Grod forgive 'em if
they 'ud touch the poor ould crater that
reared me — aye, and nursed me ; and put
me on her back, and brought me to fair
and pattern ; and showed me how to bless
myself : and when I was sick and sore,
tinted me day, and night ; and cried the
blessed tears over mee ! — Will they touch
Iter ? I ask you, will they touch Iter ? They
will, will they ? the mother that reared
me ? and my father dead, eh ? Here ! —
come on, Paddy Larkin ! — let the pipes
stay here;" and he stooped low, and
thrust the green bag under the cover of a
rock shaded by alder-trees. " There now,
they'll tear away the ould woman — my
L 2

ould mother, — from house and home, and,
maybe, leave her sprain', and bleeding',
and bawling' on the blessed ground. Come
on, Paddy Larkin — hurroo for ould Ireland
folly me, Larkin — hurroo for ould
Ireland, and the sky over it."

And he sprang forward with an agility
and fire that where in striking contrast
with his usual slow and tame demeanour.

Paddy stood looking at him for sometime
; and then said, —

"May Grod grant you sense, Denny
Mullins ! what way is that for you to be
going' on ? Go away, and take up sour
dhokauns (pipes) and have some sense.
Maybe, if the rogers were to the fore,
you wouldn't be so lively wit yourself.
Your mother, indeed ! they to be going'
after your mother. Maybe, 'isn't something
else they'd have to do, when they 'ud
be hard set to save themselves ; and they
running' for their life ; and the Army of
Freedom hot-foot behind 'era, commanded
by General Doherty, and his Aidyy Camp,
that's myself, — Agitate General of the Grand
Division of Balhjdlne. Your mother, is it ?
Och; sure have sense — have sense, man."

Denny's martial enthusiasm had subsided

by this time ; and lie returned to the rock,
beneath which he had deposited his pipes.
He took them np ; and tucking them under
his arm, he and his companion jogged on
together.

After a little time, Paddy, having grown
somewhat moody, began to frown, and to
mutter broken phrases to himself. Then
turning to his companion, and looking him
straight in the face, he said, —

Denny Mullins ! answer me one thing :
is there any danger of Jack Gorman ?
answer me that one question : — is there
any danger of the captain turning* onus?"


"Is it the captain you 'ad be spain'
about ? " asked Denny ; " is it the man
that's as solid as Corrasnachtha on his
bottom? There's not a man from this to
the Hill o' Howth ; or from that back to
Donaghadee ; or from that again to Pantry
Bay, that's sounder, or truer, than you,
this day. Jack Gorman. Paddy Larkin,
listen to me ; did you ever hear tell o' one
o' the Germans ever turning' stag ? did
you ever hear tell o' one o' em wit a weak
point in him ? No, nor any one else no more
than you ; all his kith, kin, and generations

were as sound in everything belonging to
tlirue men as any to be found Within the
four walls of Ireland. And, answer me
this, Paddy Larkin ; what made you ask
me that question about the captain ? "

I'll tell you, then," answered the other;
I don't half like his ways lately. He
do be going' about here and there, — to
Gurtroo, and to Whitmore Castle, and to
Mooloch, and — I seen him party often
'long with that hanging-bone thief, Peter
Mackey. What business does he have
again' to people o' that sort ? They are our
enemies, and the enemies of the country;
and what can you expect from any man
that 'ud make or meddle wit 'em ? And
besides that, sure, he can't spake a good
or a civil word about the ' Association or the
Army of Freedom, or the Bisin\ or anything
that's for the good of the country.
Didn't he tell myself, up to my teeth, that
'twas all foolishness ; and that I ought to
drop it. What could you expect from a
man as 'ud say that P There's the trial of
a man for you. Mind what I'm going' to
say now, Denny MuUins. By the blessed
sun that's shining there beyond o' top o'
the mountain, the man as 'ud run down

the association, and as 'ucl spake mane o'
the Armis of Freedom, and as 'ud they to
}3ut down the Basins — the man as 'ud do all
that, haven't the spirit of a sjridogue (a
wren) in him, nor the soul of a flay (flea) ;
and I'd no more thrust him than I would
the greatest robber that ever ransacked a
chapel."

Having delivered himself thus, he
clenched his lips, drew back the lids of his
eyes, and looked triumphantly into the face
of his companion.

Denny, however, far from being discomfited,
rose with the importance of the
occasion ; and replied thus : —

'' I listened to you, Paddy Larldn — I
beg pardon — General Larldn y

'' Agitan General, sajs> you," interrupted
Paddy.

"Well, by course, Agitan General; but
you see, I'm blind to the titles o' the Army
of Freedom. Howsoever, I listened to you,
Paddy Larkin, — that's Agitan General
of the Army of Freedom, — when you
were passion' your vary (verdict) on Jack
Gorman, that's on the captain. You said
he went here, and he went there ; and he
was talking' wdd this man, and wit that

man ; and that you wouldn't thrust him,
bekase why ? to be sure, because he made
little of the association, and of the Army of
Freedom, and of the Basins : that's your
vary? I ask you now, to show me a
more knowledgeable man in the association,
or in the Army of Freedom or in the Bisin\
than the captain's four bones. Answer
me that. And then, after answering' that,
answer me this : If the poor ould country
wanted help tomorrow to take off her
chains, and the likes, where, on Ireland's
ground could be found a man readier, and
sounder, and larder (more learned) to do
that same, than Jack G norman, the captain ?
That's for you to answer me. And hearken
here now, Paddy Larkin " — he drew up
closer to his companion, and pushed forward
his head so as nearly to touch Paddy's
cheek with his mouth — "hearken here;
there's not a man in Ballydine, nor out of it,
that 'ud stand boulder to Master Herbert,
if it was wanted, than the captain. Do
you see me now, Paddy Larkin ? do you
see on what ground I'm standing' ? Take
that now, my General — beg pardon — my
Agitan General

Paddy felt the full weight of the appeal.

Perhaps there was no man living who
would go farther to serve Herbert Granville
than Paddy Larkin ; not alone from
the fact that he and his mother had always
found protection, and a home at Ash Grove,
when the weight of sorrow and of affliction
had come upon them by the death of the
elder Larkin ; but also because an affection,
for which he could scarcely account to
himself, had attached him so wholly to
that young gentleman that we believe he
would not hesitate to sacrifice his life in
vindication of that affection.

When, therefore, the piper had struck
this chord — and the reader must have
perceived with what easy dexterity he did
so — Paddy's breast began to heave; and
his swelling hostility to the captain commenced
to subside, until that individual
assumed in his imagination an aspect altogether
different from that in which he had
a few minutes before regarded him. He
immediately began to feel that if the captain
loved Herbert, and was ready to serve
him, the captain could not be a bad man.
He walked on, without answering the
piper ; pondering upon the words he had
heard; and reviewing the captain — his

acts, his language, his general demeanour
in the field of his imagination.

Thus engaged, and thus silent, Paddy,
with his companion, descended into the
mountain gorge on the right of the road
leading up from Ballydine ; and after
another half-hour they were passing
through that village.

Having arrived at the Cross, they separated,
Denny taking the road that led to
Glen Corril, and Paddy that which lay in
the direction of the town of Corrigcastle.

Paddy, after parting with his companion,
stepped on quickly, for the morning was
advanced, and he wished to reach the town
before noon. He walked on with a gay
and sprightly air, his new beaver resting
on one side of his head, and his blackthorn
stick clutched firmly in his right hand.
He would, every now and then, extend his
stick in the air, and run his eye along its
length, as if to ascertain its straightness
and the regularity of its knobs : then again
he would balance it between his fore-finger
and thumb, perhaps to try its weight, or
his own skill in using it : after that he
Avould whirl it round his head three or four
times, and jump forward as he did so — byway

of practice, most likely ; imagining
himself, at the time, charging in front of
his battalions. Sometimes he poured forth
a stave of some patriotic song, expressive
of the pride and glory of dying for one's
country, especially when the green flag
fluttered in the breeze above the heads of
the conquerors, and the red flag lay befouled
in the mire beside the gory vanquished.


The road along which he thus enjoyed
his imaginary triumph wound along the
margin of the vale of Orma, and was such
as could not fail to inspire him with cheerfulness.
It was lined on either side by
large elms and ashes, which flung their
shade upon his pathway, and protected him
from the fierce rays of the sun.

On he went, passing Castle Whitmore
on the right ; and farther on. Sycamore
Lodge, the noble residence of Sir Michael
Carey, on the left. Then the beautiful and
embowered residence of the Rev. Mr.
Grigger came in view, as well as other
equally beautiful and romantically situated
houses on the right and on the left.

At length he came in sisfht of the town
of Corrigcastle, tranquilly reposing on the

banks of the river Orma, beneath him. It
looked lovely, bathing in the noonday sun,
the river winding along its length, between
groves of osier and lofty stores, or pinnacled
churches, and tasteful private residences.
The rich foliage of the trees which
rose here and there along the road, and the
bright green of the lawns and meadows
that swept away along the borders and
outskirts of the town, gave a freshness and
softness to the whole landscape, which,
amid the light and heat that filled the air,
was most cheering and refreshing. Paddy
felt the influence of the scene ; and with a
buoyant step he descended into the widening
basin which extended beyond the
suburbs of the town. He crossed the
Green, or market-place ; and was soon
lost amid the labyrinth of the streets.

"Winding his way, up one street, and
down another, and across lanes and alleys,
he arrived at length at Mill Street, a large
and open thoroughfare. He passed on
some few hundred yards up the street,
until he reached a narrow passage or
lane which opened on the right. He
paused here, and looked around him ; but
it was only for a moment. He turned up

the lane, wbicli was scarcely wide enough
to admit two persons abreast. But narrow
as it was, it was rendered still more disagreeable
to the wayfarer by a depression
in the middle, along its whole length,
which was paved with round stones, and
intended for a gutter ; but it was now dry ;
that is, so far as running water was concerned,
for otherwise it formed a receptacle
of filth and fluid that were exceedingly
offensive.

He proceeded to about half-way up this
lane, when he stopped at a closed door,
painted green and brown, both colours
being faded and dirty. This lane was
evidently devoted to gentlemen of the
goose and last ; for on either side there
hung out, by the doors, various articles of
wearing apparel ; there were shoes, chiefly
old ones, coarse and dilapidated; there
were also coats, trousers, vests, and
breeches, for the most part, old and broken
also, but in some cases new, especially as regarded
breeches. The respective manipulators
of the various articles appeared
at openings near the doors, plying their
various trades; these openings being intended
for windows, though they had

neither sashes nor glass, but rough boards
or shutters, which lay on one side, to be
put up when the day closed.

Paddy stood near the green door for a
few minutes gazing intently upon it. It
was closed, as we have said ; and the
window, or opening intended for a window,
had its rough board up ; and no sign of
life appeared within it or about it. He
looked up at a four-pane window above
the door ; three of whose panes were open,
and the fourth closed with a square piece
of brown paper. He coughed two or three
times, with a sort of forced vehemence ;
and then looked up again, when he beheld
two grey slimy eyes, half-shaded with dirty
black hair in wild disorder. Paddy bowed
to the eyes, which immediately disappeared;
and shortly after the green door opened ;
and he entered the residence of General
Doherty.

The lady of the general — she of the
eyes and hair — closed the door behind
him; and led him through a narrow passage
to a rickety, dirty, and broken staircase;
which she ascended before him.
She was a stout-limbed woman, with a
short petticoat of dirty yellow, and a blue-striped

spenser that came to her hips, but
was half-open in front. These two articles
constituted her whole toilet. Her legs and
feet were bare, and remarkably stout, rough,
and dirty Haying reached the landing
place above the stairs, after a few long
strides, each of which covered two or
three steps, they entered a doorway at the
top, and found themselves in the presence
of the general.

The lady immediately retired ; and Paddy
having exchanged cordial salutations with
the general, took a seat beside him. The
room was of a tolerable size, but very bare
of furniture. It had a four-legged deal
table, three broken chairs, and a long
bench. One of its four walls was lined
with men's apparel — coats, breeches and
vests — and the remaining three were ornamented
with, here and there, red and blue
pictures without frames, and fastened in
their places by small nails or tacks ; — these
pictures representing various battle scenes
of various periods of the national history — •
such as the battle of Clontarf, the siege of
Limerick, the battle of the Yellow Ford,
and even the battle of the Boyne, in which
King William was conspicuous on a red

horse; and King James on a blue horse
treating in the distance.

We must now present the general to our
readers. He was a man of about forty-five
years old; of the middle size; slight, thin,
and wiry : his features were sharp and angular
; his nose being especially remarkable,
for it was bent in the middle, and twisted
at the top towards the right cheek. His
eyes were dark and small, and his eyebrows
low and shaggy. His face altogether had
a weasel-like expression ; with a touch of
daring, occasioned by the twist of the nose,
which stamped him as a man peculiarly
qualified to lead on the Army of Freedom
in the face of the enemy. His hair, which
was a little grey, was short and close and
bristly; and tended in no little degree to
intensify his warlike air. His body and
limbs were light and supple, and smartly
shaped. And altogether, he looked a man
eminently fitted for the high position he
occupied in the army of his country. He
spoke smartly and well; his chief peculiarity
being a nasal twang, occasioned probably
by the twist in his nose. He was, of
course, in his ordinary every-day dress,
which was composed of a very tight blue

and plaid pantaloons, very old and patched ;
a red plaid waistcoat, fastened in front
with a twine cord; and a fustian frock-coat,
broken at the elbows, and greasy
about the collar and sleeves. His feet
were encased in broken slipper shoes, but
without stockings.

Such was the external roan. His history.
was a simple one. He never knew his
father or mother ; nor, indeed, was there
ever any certain account as to who they
were. It was said by some who pretended
to know everything about him, that he was
the son of a strolling player by some
wandering fair one who frequented playhouses,
and other places of gaiety ; but
this was regarded by others, of equal
authority, as not correct, and a different
history of his advent to life was given by
them; and this again denied by others.
The only facts that were clearly established
were, that he was found, one fine spring
morning, some forty-five years before his
introduction to the reader, deposited in a
small straw basket, lined with grass, at the
gate of a farmer's yard in the vicinity of
Corrig^castle. The farmer's name was
Doherty. The serving-man, Who had been

VOL. ir. M

up early, liearcl the cry of the infant, and
immediately taking it up, hurried into ibis
master's kitchen, and laid it before the
maid, who had just risen, and was engaged
in tying up her hair with a string. She
was shocked, as was natural, at the sight of
a baby in a straw basket, with grass about
it ; and she clapped her hands, and cried,
Shame ! " After that she looked at it,
took it up, and weighed it ; it was covered
with a dirty woollen rag, which added considerably
to its weight as she balanced it
in her hands. She laid it in the basket
again, and hurried away to her young
mistress's bedroom, and told the news
about the " nicest little crater of a baby
that you ever seen in your born days."
Her young mistress expressed great astonishment,
with an overpowering desire to
see it ; and so sprang from the bed, and
hurried into the kitchen as she was, undressed,
to see the " dear little thing, ^^
Then other members of the family followed
in due time, until the young stranger was
nearly exhausted by his morning levee.
But he was provided for in every way his
necessities required; and after a time
he was consigned to the care of an old

woman who lived in a cabin hard by tho
farmer's residence. He was christened
Laurence Grate, partly after the place where
he was found, and partly after the serving-man
who had found him, whose name was
Larry Drochan. But though he was
christened Laurence Gate, he always went
by the name of Larry Doherty, which latter
name he carried with him into the proud
elevation at which he had now arrived, of
General of the Balhjcline Division of the
Grand Army of Freedom,

He grew up a smart boy, and in due
time was sent, by Farmer Doherty, to a
school in the town of Corrigcastle. Here
lie was kept until he was able to read and
write and cipher ; when the farmer took
him into his own house, and appointed
him to the care of his sheep, and to other
employments suitable to his age. But
Larry's ambition had already commenced
to ferment, and instead of attending
to the sheep or to any other charge
entrusted to him, he devoted his rising
genius to the study of patriotic ballads ;
and of Watty Cox's Journal which literary
production he had possessed himself of
while at school. The farmer finding that
M 2

this young protege was but ill-adapted for
rural life, thought well to bind him to a
tailor in the town of Corrigcastle, and
thither he was sent accordingly. He
served his seven years, became a journeyman
to another tailor in the same town,
and after a time married this tailor's
daughter ; — the same lady who had received
Paddy Larkin, as we have stated.

While Larry was serving his time, and
afterwards when he became a journeyman,
he had ample opportunity of improving
his patriotism, and perfecting his literary
acquisitions in the field of song and of
Watty Coxism. Indeed, to do them justice,
the sons of the shears in the town of
Corrigcastle, were not behindhand with
any other grade or class of men in the
town, or perhaps in any town of Ireland.
They read O'Connel's (Dan, they used to
call him, by way, we suppose, of making
him their own,) they read his speeches
regularly; and Shiel's too, though they
often found difficulty in arriving at the
meaning of some of his oratorical flights;
and in such cases, Larry was their man.
They gloried in Watty Cox's Journal, because
it abused every one that was wealthy

or exalted, but above all, the members of
Government ; and called them by the most
curious names, such as *' robbers,"
thieves," " cut-throats," *' slingers,"
*' whackers," " buzzards," and advised
every man who wished Ireland free to put
an end to them all as soon as possible.
In fact, they were a very learned class of
men in the department of patriotism.
They could all make speeches, and did
make them at the public meetings that
took place from time to time, as well as at
their private gatherings. It was no wonder
then that Larry improved his stock of
school knowledge ; and that, in addition
to the reading, and writing, and ciphering,
he gathered up for future use a large
amount of loose learning in the field of
Irish agitation. He knew all about the
great heroes of ancient times, such as Neil
of the nine hostages, Con of the hundred
battles, Cognac Ulfada, Fin-Mac-Cumhal,
Voisin and the Eianne Eirinn; and as
for Red Hugh, and the O'Donnels, he was
hand-in-glove with them. He was great
at penmanship ; and, indeed, if the secret
must be told, this was the talisman which
first called forth his lofty genius in the

sphere of patriotism. There was no one to
be found who could at all compare with him
in flourishes, for he began and ended every
word with a flourish, and at the termination
of every sentence he flung a trellis-work of
flourishes around it. On this he built his
prognostic of future greatness ; for he felt
that it was impossible that such a high gift
could have been conferred upon him without
a high purpose ; and that God must
have intended him for mighty achievements.
And he reasoned well, for he
said, —

I have the gift of flourishing, and that
brought on the gift of writing proclamations
; and put that and that together, and
there's the gift of being General of the
Army of Freedom, proved to you in a

jiffy."

That was his mode of reasoning, and who
can doubt its force?

Having now presented this distinguished
patriot and man of gifts to the reader, we
shall endeavour to record the substance of
the interview between himself and Paddy
Larkin, his second in command.

And how are things looking, up your
way?" he asked, after having reviewed the

general features of Whitefeetism, and its
promising aspect ; '' how does everything
look?"

There's some flops among 'em, but
nothing' to speak of ;" was the reply.

I tell you what it is, Mr. Larkin, we
must cut off all rotten branches, and put
'em in the burning. I give you the Scripture
for it. Keep a clean roll, no doubtful
s — all ready for the word when 'tis
given. You understand me. Red Hugh
always kept his men in hand, and charged
home at the proper moment, —

And up the green flag flew ;

And sabres flash'd to view ;
And shouts of patriots rose ;

Then noble was the stand ;

The onset tierce and grand,
And quick and hard the blows.

Hurry ! the day is ours ; —

And by Jove's thundering powers

We'll take our own to-day.

Long years our fathers pray'd
To have their ranks array'd

As ours this day, — Hurry !

That's the way, sir, to do it. Our first
plan is to weed all suspicious characters
out of our body; and there are various

ways of doing that — I needn't refer to
them now, beyond saying, dead men tell
no tales. Well, sir, our next plan is to
take an account of our enemies in each
section of each division ; and to tell off the
number of men necessary to do the work
of each section. These must be your
boldest men. Inferior men, such as the
old, the timid, the tender-hearted, must
keep on the outskirts, as signal-bearers.
Thirdly, sir, when orders are given by me
for any particular attack, just by way of
trying our men, and bringing 'em into
practice, teaching 'em as you might say, to
smell powder, you are to inform me of
the position and strength of the police
barracks in your section, and also of the
houses of the gentry — those cormorants
who feed upon our vitals. — Lay it on the
table there, Mrs. Doherty."

These last words were addressed to his
lady who had just entered the room, hold
black bottle in one hand, and a small
gallipot in the other. As soon as she
placed these two articles on the table, as
directed, she retired. The general then
took up the broken thread of his remarks,
and went on :—

*' Yes, sir, I say they feed upon our
Vitals. Who are they ? I ask any man.
Are they not our inferiors in every respect,
in genealogy, in patriotism, in brightness
of liberty. We are the true Milesian
stock, and none of your whitewashed
usurpers of a nation's rights. They are
the cormorants, toe are the sons of the soil,
created to uplift our country, and to adorn
it, and to send the fire of freedom through
every nook and crevice of the land. Here,
let us drink to a speedy resurrection of our
country."

And he filled the gallipot with whiskey
from the black bottle, and raised it to his
lips. But as he was in the act of drinking,
the door flew back on its one hinge, and
three men, covered with rags and grime,
entered. Having drunk, he laid the gallipot
on the table, and rose to greet the
new-comers.

"Welcome, Lieutenant," he said, shaking
a stout, one-eyed lout by the hand, " welcome,
friends, sit down, sit down. No
ceremony ; come, they that stuff ; they it
at once. 'Tis not to be sneezed at I tell
you. Fill out men, that's you. Come, they
that, Larkin.

They all helped themselves, and lie again
commenced to descant on the " glorious
prospect that was opening for the country."


After some time he said, in allusion to a
remark made by one of the new-comers.

We'll be all ready, I think, by the time
the harvest is all gathered in. Our commissariat
will then be in a fair train ; abundance
will surround us everywhere, and
nothing can interrupt our triumph. I tell
you, gentlemen, that a good and abundant
commissariat is the pivot for a successful
rising. Without that, nothing could
avail."

I believe you, general — the staff of life
for ever," observed one of the men, a lean,
raw-boned fellow, with one leg of his
trousers split up to the knee, and his coat
hanging in shreds from his shoulders.
'' There's nothing' to be compared wit full
and plenty. And for the matter o' that,
I 'ud like to see the man that could fight
fair and hearty without a full belly.
That's what I calls the pint o' th' argument."


Hould your tongue, you huddagh (a
selfish beggar) ; the man that 'udn't fight

for this country and religion-without
sicli feeding' isn't Tvortli a straw," interrupted
another; a short, bow legged dwarf,
with knee-breeches, and slouched straw
hat.

The other replied in angry tones ; and
then a babel of voices rose in such confusion
of intonation as rendered it impossible
to arrive at any definite conclusion as to
whether or not the majority of voices were
for or against a full belly in the battlefield
of their country.

However, after a little order had been
restored, the general said, —

Gentlemen, there can be no failure
in the commissariat department, because
every man will have ample time and
opportunity to refresh himself in the
farmer's houses while the campaign lasts.
There'll be plenty and to leave; and when
the country is our own, as it will be, no
doubt, in the first campaign — and for the
matter o' that, it may be won in the
first battle — then, gentlemen, the whole
country will be our commissariat. —

The field is all our own, —
The tyrants all are flown.
And Freedom is triumphant once more ;

Now raise your voices high

Till they echo in the sky
And resound, and rebound from the shore.

Then in castles we shall dwell, —

Oh, ye cabins, fare ye well !
For Milesian are triumphant to-day, to-day

Then send the bottle round ; —

Let merriment abound
For we're lords of the soil again, hurry ! "

All rose, and raised their voices to swell
the chorus of the song, as the general sentit
forth with all the power of his iron
lungs, aided by his nasal diapason.

Having again resumed their seats, the
man with the sit trousers said, that
"twould be right to regulate the liquor
'before commencing' the war, since a man
couldn't begin right without his liquor."

The man whom the general addressed
as lieutenant, objected to this proposition ;
and suggested that " no liquor should be
given out until the day was won, and then
every man might plaise himself, drink or
no drink, according' to fancy."

Each having delivered his opinion upon
this point, it was put to the vote ; when it
was carried by a majority of one, that
liquor should be given out on the morning
of the battle, that is, the first, and, as it

was manifest to all present, the onJij battle
necessary for the overthrow of the enemy ;
and after then every man might drink as
much as he liked.

The general then said that it was only
right to put the other question, namely,
that regarding the full or empty belly
during the fight; so that every decision
might appear fairly on the books. Upon
this point, therefore, each pressed his own
views, the man with the split trousers
vehemently insisting on the full belly;
while he of the bowles as vehemently
maintained the contrary. The vote was
taken ; and the full belly proposition was
carried almost unanimously, Bowles only
dissenting.

The black bottle, which had been replenished
by the general's lady, was again
appealed to by all present in confirmation
of their undying attachment to the great
cause, and their determination to die or
conquer.

The lieutenant became a little uproarious,
and sang forcibly ; placing a fierce emphasis
upon the words, bloody death, tyrants,
squelch, slaughter, which occurred frequently
in the song.

Split-trousers and Bowles, too, gave
specimens of their vocal talents ; the former
in an amorous strain of the most pathetic
description, in which he was always dying
and fainting for his true love, and recovering
only to die and faint for her again.
The latter, however, did not seem altogether
so forlorn ; for although love was his
theme, he was neither dying nor fainting
for his Amoretta, but was always ready to
drink and fight for her sake, ^' invited
she was lyaV^

Our friend, Paddy Larkin, the Agitan
General, was rather silent throughout the
whole sitting ; for he felt that it was his
business to hear opinions, and receive instructions,
rather than to offer any ; being
impressed with the conviction, that could
never be shaken for a moment, that " the
toiv7i patriots were the most enlightened,
and at the same time the most conversant
with every thing that was going forward
at head-quarters."

On that account he generally preserved
silence in the presence of such high authority
; and only put himself forward, and
assumed a prominent position when in
company with rustic patriots, whose darkness

lie felt it to be his province to illumine.


The full and empty belly question, as well
as that of giving out liquor on the morning
of the opening of the campaign, were now
disposed of, and entered on the minutes'
for the general kept a large blank book,
suspended on the wall among the wearing
apparel, devoted to the business of the
society, of which he was the head ; and in
this he entered, amid a labyrinth of
flourishes, the minutes of every meeting
that took place — that is, of every regular
meeting, himself being present, such as
that over which he now presided. According
to the prescribed rules, five members,
including the general, were only necessary
to form a quorum for the despatch of
business ; and, as it will be observed, the
legal five were present on this occasion, viz.
the General, presiding; Paddy Larkin,
Agitan General ; the Lieutenant, Split-trousers,
and Bowles.

Paddy Larkin' s instructions — those
given by the general before the other
three men had come in — were also regularly
submitted to the meeting, approved of,
and recorded in the regular way. Nothing

further was discussed, save the liquor
remaining at the bottom of the black
bottle ; and this being disposed of they
all rose to depart. A disputation, however,
took place before they reached the lower
door, as to the impropriety of parting
without having another bottle. But before
this was concluded Paddy Larkin had
taken leave of the general, and left the
house.

CHAPTER Xii.

THE EARL AND COUNTESS OF Marlborough

THEY TAKE A DEEP INTEREST IN THE Fortunes
OF HERBERT GRANVILLE.

On the morning of the day following that
on which Herbert and Miss Moore had
had their trusting at the Druid's Altar, he
and his sister determined, after breakfast,
to pay a visit to Fairborough House.
Julia went to her room to prepare her
toilet for the visit, and Herbert took a
round in the garden with his uncle Ben, in
order to have a quiet chat about such
things as interested them most, and in reference
to which they had made some
passing observations during the time of
breakfast.

Having entered the garden, they passed
along one of the walks, admiring the fruit
trees, with their rich burden of blooming:

VOL. II. N

apples, pears, plums, and peaches ; and
talking carelessly of the various species of
fruit, their relative value, and merits.

'' I remember well," observed Uncle Ben,
*' the time when these pear trees were
planted. I was then a young man, Herbert
— a very young man — and looked on
the world with a bounding spirit. Well !
what a difference time brings about in a
man. At that time I fancied within myself
that I could accomplish anything I set my
mind upon ; and the great difficulty with
me was, as to what career I should set
myself at. My prospects were bright, nay
dazzling. The Army, the Navy, the Bar,
the Church, all lay open before me; and
what added to the charms of all, was that
I had a handsome income, in my own
right, which relieved the prospect, in each
case, of that drudgery which mere dependence
upon a profession presents to one's
view. I could enjoy the glory, without the
absolute subserviency of any profession I
might choose to adopt. It was a gay,
buoyant time with me. All promise,
splendour, and loveliness. Well, such in
general, is the nature of early life ; especially
with such as me, placed as I was

on that delightful elevation of life, not
too high, but just high enough, to behold
the beautiful and glowing scene around
me, and to feel secure against any storm
of adversity that might blow over it. Your
fortune hasn't been as favourable as mine
was, at your age, Herbert ; but, look
here, my dear boy ; it may, after all, be
quite as well with you ; for you are, at
least, saved from that hesitation — that
procrastination of action, so to speak,
which was the bane of my life. I was too
easy, too happy in my circumstances to
apply my mind earnestly and determinately
to any one career, or to any one
object. I luxuriated in my position ; and
flattered myself that at any moment I
pleased T might be anything that the impulse
of that moment might suggest to
my imagination. Thus I lingered on,
living in the passing hour, and for the
passing hour, until time began to abate my
blood, and I began to think that a country
life after all, with the chase and the
revel, would answer all the purposes of
happiness. Another influence began to
operate upon me — but — ay."

His voice became soft and low, and he
N 2

hesitated for a few seconds, turning towards
one of the fruit trees, and drawing
his open palm three or four times over his
face. Then he resumed.

Yes, I was saying that other influences
operated upon me at the time. Herbert,
I loved. She was beautiful as the dawn.
I can see her now, as she once used to
smile when I approached her. Happiness
shone in her eyes ; as for her person, it
was cast in the mould of grace and
beauty. I never met one whose manners
affected me so much ; she was gay, without
folly, gentle without pretension, generous
without ostentation. Do you know,
my dear boy, that Fanny Moore comes
nearer to her than any one I have ever
known. That's a sweet girl. If I were
young tomorrow, I should love that girl,
and make her mine. Ay, — that is, — if I
could forget her who is now sleeping in the
last resting place of her fathers. But, I
couldn't forget her. No I never ! never !
She left in my heart that which can never
be rooted out, — love, undying love. I'm an
old man now ; and yet, though you will
think it strange, my love for her is as fresh
as blooming as in my early manhood when

first she planted it in this breast. 'Tis
calmer, 'tis more solemn, 'tis holier, perhaps
; but 'tis as true, as faithful, as fixed
as at first. Let us sit here awhile."

They had reached the summer-house
by this time ; and turning iu, they sat
upon the lower bench, shaded by the
trellis-work, and the flowers and the trees
that drooped around it.

"Uncle," said Herbert, after a long
pause, during which he played with some
of the flowers and leaves at his side —
Uncle, you say that you like Miss Moore ;
and that she resembles one whom you once
loved, and love still. What would you say
if I told you that I love her ? "

Uncle Ben turned his eyes slowly round
upon his nephew, whose face was now
brightened by a sudden rush of blood which
his confession called forth; and looking
calmly and complacently at him for a few
seconds, answered, —

I would say that you are a boy according
to your uncle's heart; and that a
better, a worthier, a wiser choice you could
not make. Herbert, this is not the first
time that the idea passed in my mind that
you and Fanny Moore would do well

together ; not that I thought there was
love there ; and yet why hadn't I thought
it ? !No thing could be more reasonable
than to think that two like you and she
should love each other. But I am glad
now that it is so. Nothing could be better.
You shall have my most hearty good wishes
and services in forwarding your views and
hers. But let me think. Ay, George
Moore will object, of course ; not on any
high ground — oh, no ; he couldn't do that.
Ho, ho ! the blood of the Granvilles and
of the Browns too is too high for that : but
he will object on the ground of your want
of property. Well, well ; we shall consider
all that. You are both young ; no need of
haste : we shall see all about that. Stow,
there's brother Felix — he has a fine property
in Canada; he has property in this
country too. I shouldn't like you to settle
altogether in Canada, though it is a fine
country to live in ; and will be in time one
of the finest countries of the world. Yet,
I don't see why the Granvilles should
spin themselves out of the country of their
fathers. There is no necessity in the case.
Could not Felix sell out there ? Well, we
shall see. Lord Fairborough is our friend;

he is yours : he is, I know, anxious to have
you settle down here, that is, after a time ;
at present, perhaps, nothing of importance
could be done in the way of enlarging the
property here. If it hadn't been for that
base scoundrel, Croker, I have no doubt
that Lord Milford would have never acted
in the way he did. Grod knows what that
villain said to disparage you in his Lordship's
eyes ; but, no matter, all will come
right yet."

Here the old gentleman paused, and
became absorbed in reflection, evidently on
the conduct of Bartley Croker, and the
consequences that flowed from it.

Herbert noticing this, and wishing; to
withdraw his uncle's mind from so disagreeable
a subject, said, —

Uncle, are you aware that Harry
Moore is an admirer of Julia ? He has told
me so much : and Juha herself, when 1
twitted her about it, did not deny that
there was more than an ordinary friendship
subsisting between herself and Harry. I
am glad of it myself, for Harry is an
admirable fellow, and true as the sun. I
know no one whom I should desire so much
as a husband for Julia ; not so much for

this property, though that is as fine as any
around us here ; but his fine character, his
sterling qualities, his upright conduct, his
high-toned principles — these are what I
value more than any thing else."

The old gentleman listened to this intelligence
with apparent interest ; and,
when Herbert had ceased speaking, he
said, —

No ; I never thought of that, but I
like Harry Moore ; he is all that you say of
him. He is a young man whom I have
never known to stoop to anything low or
mean. He has always borne himself
proudly, yet modestly. Ha, ha, I have
been frequently amused with his contemptuous
and just treatment of that nincompoop,
Whitmore : — ha ! ha ! ha ! — Whit-more,
you see, Herbert, is an empty-headed
and ridiculous booby ; he is vain and boisterous
; but what is worse, he adds to these
foolish qualities low, base, cunning, deception,
treachery, and falsehood. He has, I
protest, every bad quality that I can enumerate.
I think he would sert. Ha! ha!
ha ! Well, that's shocking to say, to be
sure ; but, you see, I entertain a very bad
opinion of him. He has sprung badly.

Herbert, he has sprung badly. But never
mind. What's that ? — ay, ay; Julia, you
say, is admired by Harry Moore ; very sell,
so she ought. Juha, my dear boy, is fit to
be the wife of any man in the land. She is
the image of her grandmother, that is, of
my mother ; and that cas a woman, Herbert.
I don't believe Ireland could boast
her superior in any one respect that I
know of as regards the qualities of a lovely
and accomplished woman. Yes, she was a
woman. Faith, Herbert, she was fit for a
prince. And so is Julia, because Julia is
her image. Very well, Harry Moore and
herself would just suit ; and so they shall
if Julia says yes. What does Julia say ?
I mean, does she like him ? "

I have no doubt of it," was the reply.

"Very well," continued Uncle Ben, "we
shall see to it in due time. His father and I
are old friends ; we shall agree, depend
upon it; but his wife, she is a woman
not exactly to my mind. Those Cretan
of Mooloch were always a cold, calculating,
self-seeking family. Good blood, though ;
good blood. And that is the difficulty with
me in understanding their somewhat grovelling
character. There must have been a

bad cross somewhere, tliougli I am not
aware. And hang it, the father, that is,
Mrs. Moore's father was above all meanness.
Yes, the Moores, my boy, are as the
gushing waters of a mountain rock, pure
and undefiled through the whole line ; pure
at the fountain, pure everywhere. Ha !
there is Julia; you had better go."

Herbert, whose eyes had been cast
down, while his uncle was going on with
his genealogies, had not noticed Julia until
she had approached by a side walk within a
few yards of the summer-house, when uncle
Ben attracted his attention to her. He had
scarce uttered the exclamation of recognition
when she sprang into the summerhouse
with an elastic bound, and standing
erect before her uncle, asked, —

How do you like me now, uncle ?
Don't you think I am a little improved
since you saw me last ? "

'' By Jove, if I were a young man, and
you not my niece," replied Uncle Ben, '' I
should have a passage of arms with you."

And fondly should I fly to your arms,
you being my uncle though," gaily retorted
Julia.

'^ Ha ! ha ! ha ! well said, well said, you

baggage," was the rejoinder; 'now, get
away with you both. There, dear, go
now;" and he kissed her cheek.

They immediately left the garden, and
passed into the lawn; where uncle Ben
parted with the young people, and proceeded
towards the rear of the house in
the direction of the farm-yard.

Herbert and Julia returned to the house
for half an hour, after which they passed
out into the lawn again, and down the
avenue leading to the outer gate, where
their servant and gig awaited them. Having
taken their seats in the gig they ordered
the servant to drive towards Fairborough
Park, They drove on to the Cross, and
passed down the road leading to Corrig-
castle. Having proceeded for about half
a mile on this road they turned to the left,
on the road leading to the town of Cush-port,
leaving the Corrigcastle road on their
right. This road, which was broad and
smooth, wound along through a country
abounding in agricultural wealth and rural
luxuriance. The fields, smiling in verdure,
or waving in golden beauty, lay smiling on
either side, bathed in the mellow sunshine.
The hedges, flanked with oaks and elms,

which flung their huge arms across the
road on either side, and formed a deep shade
overhead, sent out their varied fragrance
from whitethorn and sweet-briar, and
honey-suckle, and other odorous shrubs,
making the air redolent of perfume ; while
the sheep and cattle, browsing or reclining
along the fields and beside the hedge rows,
gave life and animation to the scene.
Farm-houses and rustic cottages lay scattered
here and there, along the way ; and
occasional villages peeped out from their
seclusion in some retired nook at the turn
of a by-road, forming by their whitewashed
gables and piers and chimneys an agreeable
contrast to the rich and glowing green
of the foliage that embowered them.

On they went, amid the luxuriant and
laughing scene for a distance of two miles,
dien they reached a road which swept
around the demesne of Fairborough. They
passed along this road, leaving to the right
that on which they had hitherto travelled,
until they came to two branch roads.
They turned to the left, and immediately
saw before them the main entrance to the
park, guarded by large iron gates, enclosed
between piers of brown cut stone, tall and

massive. Rows of fir and ali flung their
long shadows across the large square of
flowering turf that formed the approach
to the gates. They passed up this square
till they reached the lodge, where they
alighted. The keeper of the lodge came
out, and threw open one of the side gates,
according to Herbert's wish, for he did not
intend to take the gig into the park, but to
go on foot, sending the gig and man to
the neighbouring village until an hour
which he named, by which time he expected
to be back at the lodge again. He
and Julia then passed in, and crossed over
the park, in the direction of the mansion,
which lay at about the distance of a mile
from the gates.

The scene presented to their notice was
rich and varied. The park itself was very
extensive, containing perhaps a thousand
acres or more ; in the centre of which,
upon a gentle elevation, stood the mansion,
which was a square massive structure,
flanked on either side with other erections
of lighter and more graceful aspect, the
whole forming the three sides of a square.
Along the two sides of this square, which
ran at right angles with the main building,

or mansion proper, were planted rows of
laurel, bay, cypress, and other trees and
shrubs ; and on either side of the main walk
leading up the square towards the front of
the mansion a fountain flung its jet into the
air, which sparkled in the sun and cast
back its sprays upon the green turf. This
square was intersected with white sanded
walks, forming smaller squares and parallelograms,
circles, and other figures interspersed
with knots of various flowers ; and
was enclosed in front by a low iron
paling painted white, and twisted into a
variety of shapes. The mansion, with all its
surroundings, its squares, avenues, gardens,
shrubberies, and walks, presented to the eye
an object of surpassing grandeur and beauty.
The mansion and demesne occupied a
central position in the vale of Orma ; hence
a person taking a stand at a point near the
mansion could take in an extensive view of
varied scenery, sweeping away on every
side, and diversified by plain, hill, glen, and
dale. The whole was studded with villages,
farm-houses, and gentlemen's seats,
and bounded in the distance by mountains
that swelled upwards from the vale,
tier after tier, until they disappeared in the

clouds. Altogether the scene was such as
could scarcely be equalled, most certainly
not surpassed in any part of the world, for
beauty of outline, richness of aspect, depth
of colouring, and variety of natural grace.
It was a scene on which cano-els miofht
look down, and rejoice in the work of their
Creator. It was redolent of happiness ; for
nothing seemed ajar throughout the entire
expanse of scenery ; and heaven appeared
as if breathing the kiss of peace upon its
brow.

Herbert and Julia, as we have said,
passed into the park, and bent their steps
in the direction of the mansion. The deer
moved in states groups beneath the
spreading beeches that studded the velvet
plain around them. The wild duck and
widgeon sported along the margins of the
mimic lakes whose sparkling waters flashed
here and there upon their view, from amid
the osier and willow clumps that fringed
them. The hare and rabbit frolicked and
frisked in the open spaces beside the tall
fern and bramble thickets. The fox peeped
out from the hazel covert, and looking
around him for a moment, scampered along
the edge of the birch-fringed canal until

lie disappeared amid the furze and heath
that crowned the mound beyond. The
woodcock and plover, and other birds of
varying plumage, displayed their colours
in the sun, or flapped their wings in the
brooklet, and spread a mimic shower
around them. The whole scene was alive
around and about them as they passed
slowly along, admiring each point of interest,
and expatiating on the varied
charms which greeted their senses.

What a paradise is this ! " exclaimed
Julia, as they had crossed the deer field,
and were entering into another large,
wide-spreading lawn, fringed with tall fir
and pine, and diversified with copses of
birch and willow, and musical with the
murmur of waters flowing in their winding
channels ; " What a paradise is this ! "

Yes," replied Herbert, '' it is indeed an
earthly paradise; but not unbeseeming
those whom God has placed in it."

"I know, I know," observed Julia;
Lady Fairborough is a very, very good
woman. Oh, how kind to the poor, and
how gentle and benevolent to all who
approach her. Do you know, Herbert, that
I have always thought that heaven had

stamped its own peculiar mark upon lier
countenance. Have you noticed the pure
sweet light that ever beams in it, as if no
other thought than that which is steeped
in the pure benevolence of heaven had
ever entered into her heart. And her
voice, — how sweet and low ! It passes into
your soul like a stream of music from the
clouds, — soft, gradual, almost unfelt, until
you are filled with the charm. Oh ! how
my bosom warms when I see her ; — and do
you know, that with that exquisite delight
which comes upon me when I meet her,
there is mixed a kind of melancholy — I
scarcely know what to call it — but a
something as if I feared that she was not
destined by heaven to remain long upon
earth. There is a languor of bearing and
expression about her which always brings
this feeling to my heart. Oh, Herbert,
how sad, how sad if any thing should
happen to her !"

I have always noticed that," replied
Herbert; 'there is a certain languor of
look and delicacy of constitution about her,
which would lead one to believe that her
life would not be a long one. But yet
there may be nothing in that. Artery often

VOL. II.

we find that persons cast in a delicate oi'
fine mould possess more of lasting vitality
than those of a coarser type. I trust,
indeed — most heartily do I hope — that her
life will be prolonged, as a blessing to all
connected with her. For his lordship's
sake I should regret her death — I should
regret it for the sake of the poor. In fact
it would be a source of regret to every one
who has come within the sphere of her
benevolence. May Grod grant that her life
be prolonged, and that all suffering be
far from her ! Have you ever observed,
Julia, what a similarity there is in the
nature, if I may so call it, of the earl
and the countess, as well as in their
manners ? "

Yes," replied Julia, " I have always
admired that. And is it not beautiful,
Herbert ? They seem to be so much of
one mind, and one heart; and, the best of
it is, that all their thoughts and feelings
flow in the channel of good nature. They
appear never to differ on that point. He is
so tenderly kind and considerate, and so
forgetful of himself in his desire to serve
and please others. I am sure I should feel
very, very sorry that any grief should come

to him. And I believe he would fret himself
to death if anything happened to the
countess. Oh, they are such a dear, dear
couple."

"Look! look!" interrupted Herbert,
turning his face towards a point of the
landscape on the left of them, and pointing
his hand to it at the same time. She
stopped speaking, and looked off in the
direction he pointed at.'

'' Oh, beautiful ! " she exclaimed; " how
very beautiful ! "

The section of the landscape on which
their eyes now rested lay to the north and
west ; and formed that portion of the
demesne which extended towards the mountains
above Bally dine. Bally dine itself,
with the adjacent villages, was embraced in
this view, which was certainly striking
and beautiful. The demesne lay stretched
out in soft folds in the direction pointed
out ; swelling into graceful elevations,
dotted with trees and white farm-houses,
or depressed into winding glens that lay
half-concealed amid the rich foliage which
surrounded them. The immediate prospect
was bounded by the sloping and graceful
hills which nestled in the bosom of the


mountains that swelled beyond and above
the whole scene.

'' Well," observed Herbert, " there are
some less charming scenes than that in the
world. In what part of this globe could
one seek a spot more calculated to fill the
heart with peace, or to turn it to a
sweeter contemplation of the goodness
and beneficence of the Creator ! Julia, I
could live and die here, without a thought
of anything beyond it, without a disturbing
thought. I could feel happy and blessed
here — here within the scene where I was
born, and where I first learned to know
and to bless the name of Him who has
placed us upon this little planet to serve
and to obey Him, and to join Him, after
a time, in His own bright realm above
yonder clouds. But I am getting a little
poetical. However, it is to me a great
source of happiness to contemplate the
works of God, and to trace His greatness,
and wisdom, and love amid the magnitude
and splendours of His creation. I cannot
help this feeling, it is my delight, my
supreme happiness*'

And who does not feel so ? " observed
Julia, "I do, I know ; but I never can

give expression to my feelings in the
presence of the grand and beautiful
works of Nature. They seem to overpower
me, and to stop my tongue, as it
were, in the attempt to say what I feel
and what I think. I should like to be a
poet," she continued, playfully taking
Herbert's arm, and looking archly into
his eyes, " I should like to be a poet, for
then I could tell what I felt, and thus
relieve my mind from the pressure of my
thoughts. What a delightful thing it is
to be able to paint, as it were, the
sensations which rise in one's mind at the
contemplation of Grod's works, and of His
infinite goodness. To tell, in sweet and
shining verse, the beauties and the charms
of such scenes as those around us now,
would be a delightful task. How I
should like to perform such a task if the
gift were mine. Herbert ! you must do
this ; for you can. I do not know any
poet whose verses please me so much as
yours. They are so sweet, and smooth,
and shining. Ah ! well, I do not mean to
flatter you. But you are not, or, at least,
you seem not to be conscious of your own
gifts."

Herbert smiled, and said that lie was
aware lie possessed poetic feeling, and
could even turn a verse, but yet he did not
flatter himself with the idea that he
possessed the divines afflatus so essential
to the formation of a true poet.

By this time they had arrived in front
of the mansion. The picture before and
around them was grand, chaste, and
beautiful. The main building in its magnificent
proportions, plain, but massive
and imposing, with its long flight of
broad stairs leading to the hall door, and
its lofty roof crowned with statues in
armour, rose proudly in front ; adorned
on either side with a long row of light
and elegantly ornamental structures,
shaded by a variety of dark green and
flowering shrubs. The expansive area,
with its green turf, and labyrinth of whitewashed
walks bordered with flowers of
every hue, and its two fountains shooting
their silvery waters into the air, and
sprinkling with dew the turf and flowers
around them ; the broad walks, bordered
and shaded with bright and sweet-smelling
shrubs and trees, that swept around the
mansion in varied and graceful curves,

offering at every point new and imposing
views of the mansion and its surroundings,
the sky above, with its bright blue, lightly
streaked with yellow cloud ; and the air
filled with light, and twinkling in the
meridian heat ; all these combined to
create in their bosoms a thrill of delight,
which Julia endeavoured to express by
the simple exclamation, —

"Oh! how heavenly ! "

They entered the area, or square in
front of the mansion, through a small
gate in the paling that enclosed it, and
passed up the middle walk between the
two fountains, until they reached the
steps that led to the hall-door. They
ascended these, and stood upon the landing.
Here again they turned their eyes to the
scene in front, and to the widening landscape
beyond, and felt new raptures
springing within them : for, from the
elevated spot on which they now stood,
the landscape seemed to unfold itself, and
to display to their view charms that had
before lain concealed. They paused for a
time to drink in the new delights, and
then touched the bell. A servant in
livery immediately appeared, and conducted

them into the hall. Here they
stood for a few minutes to cast their eyes
over the various paintings which decorated
the walls. These were displayed in massive
gilt frames stained by the hand of time,
and represented various members of the
Fairborough family for centuries back ;
some in the decrepitude of old age ; some
in majesty and vigour of advanced manhood
; some in the fire and elasticity of
youth; and some in the soft and playful
grace of childhood. None of the living
family were represented there.

The Earl and Countess were at home ;
and Herbert and Julia were shown into
the reception room. Here they sat for
about five minutes, when his lordship and
her ladyship entered the room together.
They expressed their great pleasure at
seeing their friends ; and the countess
complimented Julia upon her looks, which
she designated as the " very picture of
health."

She then inquired after her mother
and uncle, and her young brother; and
said, —

^' I am so happy to hear she is well.
She has suffered so much of late days, that

I feared much lier liealtli might give
way."

While she was thus speaking, she
walked with Julia across the room to a
window which looked out on a flower
garden in the rear of the mansion. The
Earl and Herbert sat at a table near the
centre of the room, and were soon engaged
in serious conversation.

'' I have spoken," his lordship was going
on to say, " to the Colonial Minister about
that matter of yours, for I feel a deep
interest in the thing, and he assures me
that I shall have the first suitable appointment
that offers in the colonies. But
whafc I wish is this, that the appointment
be in Canada, for, rely upon it, there is
none of the colonies like it. My dear
Herbert, look at the country, its geographical
position, its limitless area; its
thousand resources; ay, and its climate,
too, for whatever they say about the rigour
of the climate of Canada, it is highly
favourable to health and longevity. Believe
no one who speaks the contrary ;
for I know it from the best authority,
some old friends of mine who passed many
years there. And, by-the-bye, your

uncle, Colonel Brown, would be a further
inducement [for you to settle there for a
time. But, look here, Herbert ; I don't
wish you to settle finally in Canada, or anywhere
else out of Ireland. I trust to
something else for you. I only wish I
had something on my own estate here
for you ; but, looking in that direction I
can do nothing at present, that is to
say.

Ah ! now that I think of it," he continued,
after a pause, " that strange — buffoon
I must call him— Whitmore, I mean ;
he has been with me on matters connected
with the county ; and amongst other things,
he stated that the Whitefeet were about to
rise, and throw the country into disorder.
And what do you think he stated ? — but, I
conjecture, he shall not soon forget my
reply to him. Why, he stated, coolly and
deliberately, that you were deeply engaged
in this society — that you were, in fact,
one of its leaders. I turned upon him at
once, and said to him, that I should
sooner suspect himself a favourer of it
than you. Ho ! how the dastard winced !
I merely mention this to you en passant.
You shall take no notice of him — he is

beneath a gentlemen's notice. I must say
that I could never endure that man ; lie is
so absurd, and at the same time so
malicious."

I assure your lordship," observed
Herbert, " I never recognize him at all,
that is, I pass him by civilly, but no more.
I know him well; and knowing him, I
treat him as I say. As to the society of
Whitefeet, I regard them as being wholly
incapable of effecting any purpose that
would go to the overthrow of the existing
order of things, but yet they are capable
of doing much mischief; and in this
point of view they ought to be suppressed.
I have used, and am using my influence in
that direction — that is, so far as inculcating
upon every person likely to be connected
with or led into this combination, the folly
and criminality of their course."

*' Come, now, Herbert, I hope you are
not going to defend yourself against the
charge of that loyal slanderer and buffoon.
You need no defence, or just as much as I
do. I assure you, I shouldn't be surprised
if he charged myself with disloyalty.
I think him fit for anything that might
serve his own selfish ends, no matter how

treacHerous and base. At sessions and
at county meetings he never loses sight
of himself and his own ends, no matter
what the subject in hand may be. Weare
all sick of him. And the fellow is
so impenetrable that he doesn't feel
when he is snubbed. But a truce to
further conversation about so unworthy a
subject."

His lordship then adverted to political
matters, and to the Repeal Agitation,
which we shall leave himself and Herbert
to discuss, while we turn our attention to
the Countess and Julia, and endeavour to
catch the conversation that is passing
between them.

I do like him very much," Julia was
going on to say in reply to some observation
of the countess, " I cannot deny
that, nor do I ; but otherwise there is
nothing to warrant the report of our
marriage."

But, my dear Julia," observed the
countess, " young Mr. Moore is a very
excellent young man ; my husband thinks
much of him ; and he knows him intimately,
so that I should like dearly to
see you both married. Come, now; you

and he must be married : and mind I shall
be a bridesmaid."

She smiled and shook her head playfully
as she uttered these last words. She then
continued, —

I should like so much to see you
comfortably situated, and I'm sure your
dear mother must feel a great deal of
anxiety about your future welfare, as
well as that of your brother. But my
husband takes a very serious interest in
Herbert's welfare ; and I am quite sure he
will be able to do something for him. So
that after all the clouds shall disperse,
and ye will all be happy yet."

''I thank your ladyship," said Julia,
'for your kind wishes. I am aware of
the earl's desire to serve my brother ; and
I have no doubt that his lordship will do
all that he can to effect his object in that
respect. My mother is very anxious that
he should remain at home, if it were
possible, she can't bear the idea of his
leaving Ireland. Bat, then, there appears
to be no prospect for him here."

'' Oh, dear," observed the countess,
something may be done for him here. I
don't know, but I am sure my husband

would wish it. However," she continued
with a smile, and a quiet motion of the
the head, '' we shall leave Herbert in the
earl's hands ; he knows what to do. And
now, let me ask you, how are the poor
people up at Ballydine? Are they free
from want ? I sent up some clothing
there,* to the school teacher, a few days
ago, to distribute amongst such as needed
it, especially the poor children ; a little
summer clothing, you know. It is well to
have the little girls kept at school, and for
that purpose, I thought it was desirable
that they should have some nice clean
clothing."

I have seen some of the children,"
replied Julia, " and noticed their dresses.
They looked very neat indeed. I visited
the school on two occasions last week ;
and the teacher showed me some of the
clothing which she was then making up.
The children were quite delighted with
their presents. As to the poor people
generally about Ballydine they appear to
be free from any want. They have employment
in the fields, and their gardens
are productive."

I am delighted to hear that," said the

countess ; " it makes one feel so comfortable
to know that the poor are not
suffering. All ! yes ; you know that poor
woman, Dreelin ? "

Yes," was the reply.

*' Oh, dear," continued the countess,
what strange observations she does make,
and her dress and appearance are so
careless. The last day we were up at
Bally dine, she came out at the Cross thereto
speak with us, and she said to my
husband that — that — I cannot recall the
expressions she made use of ; but they
were to the effect that there was to be an
insurrection, or something of that nature,
and that the poor people should not be
longer trampled upon by the rich and
the proud. And her gestures were so
menacing. Sir Michael Carey, who was
with us, said that she was a silly but
harmless woman, and that she did not
know what she was saying. I have myself
spoken with her on other occasions, and
she did not show such angry feelings ; at
all events, she has a carelessness about her
that I do not like."

*' There is really no harm in her,"
observed Julia, " I know her very intimately.

She is frequently employed atour
place, and is a hard-working woman.
She is very honest and industrious, though
of strange speech and manners. Mamma
has known her from her early youth, and
says that she was always a little eccentric
in her manners, but good-natured and
kind-hearted."

'' Ah, now ; well I am glad to hear that,"
observed the countess ; " indeed, I rather
thought so much myself. How difficult it
is sometimes to understand some of these
poor people ! Though, for myself, I must
say that I have found them, generally,
well mannered and inoffensive ; and, above
all things, grateful for any little services I
have done them. But, my dear, after all,
we must not be too exacting with the
poor people ; their lot is a trying one, and
hard to bear; but Grod 'tempers the
wind to the shorn lamb.' We must be
considerate to one another ; and do what
we can to lighten each other's burdens."

By this time the Earl and Herbert had
risen from their places, the former laughing
heartily at some observations which had
passed between them. Then advancing
towards the window recess in which the

countess and Julia were seated, lie observed,
with playful humour, —

''Praj, ladies, what are you conspiring
about now ? I hope you are not preparing
a siege, or laying a train for any poor
wight unconscious of your assault."

And again he laughed.

Then, turning to Julia, he asked her if he
could do anything in the way of effecting a
reconciliation, or raising the siege. Julia
replied with an affected gravity, —

•' I fear, my lord, it is now gone so far
that nothing less than an unconditional
surrender will satisfy the assailing party."

Oh, propose terms, propose terms,"
observed the earl, " better a qualified
success than a vengeful triumph in cases
of this sort."

Now, you men," said the countess,
** always delight in sieges ; why not endeavour
to follow our example, and be
forbearing under affliction ? But men have
no patience."

"But," interposed Julia, " his lordship
doesn't come within the point of your
ladyship's observation : he is too considerate
to be cruel."

Thank you, thank you. Miss Gran-vol.

II. p

ville," said this lordship, '' I see you have
turned the point of the arrow from my
breast. That deserves a kind return.
Now, ladies, what do you think of a turn
in the garden ? The sun looks radiant ; the
day is delicious."

De tout mon coeur ; que dites vous, ma
chere ? " responded the countess, addressing
Julia.

Comme il vous plait, comtesse," replied
the latter, and they all passed out
at a door leading from the reception
room by a flight of steps down into the
garden.

The sky looked lovely in its blue expanse
and flooded light ; and the garden,
which was large and diversified in its
arrangement, its various flower beds
divided by bright green and velvety lawns,
sweeping gracefully off on every side, and
shaded here and there with light, feathery
trees, and clustered shrubs, looked soft
and smiling in the flushing radiance. They
passed on amid the flower beds, and down
to the conservatory, which they entered;
and having walked round for a few minutes
admiring the various fruits and flowers;
and plucking an orange or other ripe

fruit which hung in luxuriant fulness from
their several branches, they passed out
upon the lawn, and on by the winding
walks that led to the oak shades on the
margin of the flower beds. Having walked
along the green sward for a few minutes,
they reached a beech bower, and passing-through
this, they came out on an open
space surrounded with birch and willow-trees,
and covered with green turf, save
where the winding walks contrasted their
silvery sand with the surrounding emerald.
In the centre of this bright and lovely
scene stood, upon a pedestal of grey-stone,
a statue of niobe in white marble.
The figure was nude, save that a broad belt
or sash, of the same material as the rest
of the statue, lay in folds around the waist,
and fell, in light festoons, down in front
and behind. The proportions were regular
and graceful. The arms rested in easy
pose, crossed upon her bosom, and one
leg was advanced, which contributed much
to the grace of attitude presented by the
whole figure. The features were beautiful
as the most beautiful of the Grecian type ;
the head was slightly bent, and the hair,
which was rolled back from the forehead,
p 2

fell in luxuriant masses back upon her
neck, and down round her shoulders.

As they looked upon the figure, the earl
observed, —

I have procured that from Italy ; it
is one of the master-pieces of one of the
first artists of that land of artistic genius.
Is it not remarkable how that country has
preserved the monopoly of art which has
for so many ages placed her in the foremost
ranks of genius ? In painting, sculpture,
poetry, and architecture, she has no rival.
She has never had one. Look at that
figure ; mark the airy lightness the chisel
has left upon it. See the living spirit —
see it, palpitating through the whole figure.
And can you behold those features without
feeling the gushing sorrow that overspreads
them from the stricken fountain of
the heart. Glorious Italy ! proud inheritors
of a godlike genius."

He walked aside, and plucking a flower
from a rose bed in the rear of the statue,
he presented it to Julia.

She thanked him, observing that she
felt a greater penchant for flowers than
for thunderbolts or arrows.

'' It had been well for poor Niobe,"

she continued, "if lier tastes had inclined
in the same direction. But, I suppose,
your lordship will charge her propensity
upon us all ; and say that ambition finds
its truest home in the bosom of the sex."

She laughed merrily, reminding his
lordship, at the same time, that she had
heard him use those words on a former
occasion ; and that she had learnt her
philosophy from him.

'' Ah, you sly thief," retorted his lordship,
'' you are ever on the watch to
turn my own artillery against me. But
seriously, you must admit that your sex
are the originators of that lofty feeling, or
rebellious, if you choose to call it, known
by the name of ambition ? "

'' Nonsense, Fairborough," interposed
the countess, " we are never influenced by
so unruly a feeling. Peace is our province,
and there we wish to rule supreme.
But you men ! you are never content but
when soaring aloft into regions unknown :
and what do you find ? Nothing that I
know of, except unrest and unhappiness.
"What do you say now, Herbert ? "

''I cannot entirely agree with your
ladyship," answered Herbert. *what I

believe is this, that men and women are
pretty much influenced alike ; and that it
depends more upon the individual taste
and inclination than upon any fixed principle
in nature, whether any man, or any
woman, may be carried away by the spirit
of ambition or otherwise. You know,
my dear countess, that history is at my
side."

'' Oh, get away with you and history,"
said the countess, playfully, "I shan't
believe a word either of sou say. Don't
you think we ought not, Julia?"

I take sides with your ladyship," replied
Julia, laughing; "if it were only to
spite the men," — in a low tone, intended
for the earl, — " who are, in general, so self-sufficient
as to deem themselves faultless."

The I earl laughed heartily, and the
whole party turned away and strolled
aloof the Q:reen turf and beneath the
shade of the foliage in light and cheerful
converse.

After nearly an hour had passed, during
which they traversed a large section of
the park which lay immediately below the
garden towards the south, they returned
to the mansion, where a luncheon had

been prepared and laid in the diningroom.
They partook of this with great
gold, their appetite haying been rendered
keen by their exercise and recreation.

After this Herbert and Juha took their
leave of their noble friends, and walked
back by the way they had come until they
reached the outer lodge, where their
servant and gig were in waiting. They
entered the gig and drove homewards,
delighted with their morning's visit, and
entertaining themselves on the way with
observations on the various objects of interest
which had attracted their admiration,
not the least of which were the
appearance and conversation of the earl
and the countess.

What a fine-looking man the earl is,"
observed Julia, "his tall and graceful
stature, his finely-chiselled features; his
lofty bearing and easy, unaffected manners,
cause one to feel both reverence and
affection for him. How softly his fine
blue eyes throw their light upon you when
he speaks — more especially when he
smiles in the joyousness of conversation.
I fancy that he is something like Apollo,
as I have read the description of that

divinity. His high and lovely brow, with
the soft, golden hair drooping in short
curls around it, and the pliant motions of
his body, borne upon his light and graceful
limbs, — all give you that idea ; at least,
they do to me. His hair is a little grey,
but, yet, beautifully soft ; and his nose
and chin are so finely cut."

'' He is certainly a noble-looking man,"
said Herbert ; " but his chief nobility
consists in the grandeur and purity of his
mind. It may, indeed, be well said of
him that the external form is a faithful
index to the internal perfection. He is
noble in mind as well as in person. What
a blessing it is to this part of the country
to have such a nobleman and lady resident
in it ! If all our nobility were like them ;
and to speak correctly, there are very
many of them who are distinguished for
the very highest qualities ; — but if they
were all of this character, and resident on
their estates, what a blessing it would be
to the whole country ! Their high example,
in the domain of the virtues, and their
elegance of manners would, apart from
the pecuniary consideration, be a great,
very great advantage. The expenditure of

their incomes among the people from whom
they derive it would, of course, contribute
largely to the comfort of the people by
the employment it would afford and the
improvements it would create. But even
this advantage would fall short, in its
effects upon the essential and permanent
well-being of the people — fall short of those
flowing from the high example thus
afforded to the people in the bearings and
manners of a high aristocracy.

*' You understand what I mean by their
liigli example. It is their good sense,
their wise and prudent conduct, their self-command,
their kind and generous demeanour.
eye need but the example
before us, that of the Earl and Countess of
Fairborough ; mark the good they are
doing. There is scarcely a poor person on
their estate, not, certainly, a destitute
person. All the farmers and cotters and
labourers, men, women, and children, are
comfortable and happy. Yliat neat,
beautiful, and comfortable cottages the
labouring poor inhabit, and all built by
the earl himself. Look at their pretty
gardens, so nicely walled in, and so redolent
of perfume : and their potato and

cabbage plots. The labourers themselves
are well feci, well clad, and happy
in appearance. And the countess ; she is
indefatigable in her service to the poor
people. If you observe the wives and
daughters, and the little children of those
poor people, their cleanliness, their comfort,
their contentment ; you mark at once
the benevolent handiwork of her ladyship.
But, above all, observe this : neither of
these noble persons, neither the earl nor
the countess defile their acts of benevolence
by that cursed brand of distinction which
would separate the Protestant Christian
from the Catholic Christian. No; they
are too good and too wise for that. They
treat all as God's creatures, and distribute
their favours equally. There is a Christian
example for all to follow, both rich and
poor. And what is the consequence, —
what is the result of all this interest which
they take in the people, of all the benevolence
and beneficence which they bestow
upon them? It is just what it ought
to be, and what it ever must be — it is
this, that, in the first place, the people
are, as I have said, all comfortable, and
happy, and contented ; and that they are

also imbued with good sense, and decent
manners.

'' IN'ow, this latter advantage is of no
small value, because it makes the people
obedient to the laws, and reconciled to
their rulers ; it enables them to know that
peace and order are better than anarchy
and disorder. And here we have the
evidence all around us. The people would
die to defend the earl and countess from
harm ; and as to illegal societies for the
overthrow of the existing order of things,
I would undertake to say that you couldn't
find half a dozen throughout the whole
estate — no, not even one, except, perhaps,
some silly, half-cracked creature, who
might have been seduced, through his
vanity and weakness, by those street-thieves
and idle vagabonds of the neighbouring
towns — not one, I say, could you find
throughout the whole estate who would
enter into any of those societies. This is
the way to look at the advantages that a
high resident aristocracy would confer
upon the country. Well, example descends.
From the topmost class, the
nobility, down through the various grades
of the gentry, and of the wealthy farmers,

this attention to the necessities and
rights of the labouring poor would be
called up, and would operate upon the
physical and moral condition of this latter
class, who, in turn, would respond to this
attention in their superior comfort, superior
intelligence, and superior attachment to
the laws and institutions of their country,
as well as to those who administer and
direct them.

"I fear, dear sis., I am tiring you with
my political preaching; but it was suggested
by our visit to-day."

Julia listened with much thoughtfulness
while her brother was thus speaking, when
he concluded, she said, —

*' No, Herbert; I am not tired, on the
contrary, I feel very interested. But my
mind has been going back to the countess.
I thought she looked rather well to-day ;
her colour was bright, and her conversation
gayer than usual. Her health, I
know, is anything but good. What a
charming woman she is ! She is quite as
tall for a woman as the earl is for a man,
and such symmetry in her person. I think
her features have a striking resemblance to
those of the earl, there is the same nose

and chin, so elegantly cut, and the same
bright blue eye. And the lofty forehead,
too, is the same. The personal resemblance,
I think, is very striking."

Yes," interrupted Herbert, '' and you
ought to say, the intellectual resemblance
is striking, neither should you forget those
finer feelings of the heart which are
equally conspicuous in both. How kindly
she speaks of the poor, their wants and
necessities ! Do you believe that those
fine qualities of the head and heart are
descendible from parents to children ? I
do. The Fairborough family afford a strong
instance of this ; for I have heard our
father say that the old earl and his wife
were remarkable for kindness of disposition
and wisdom in the conduct of their affairs.
They have never been known — any of the
family — to turn a tenant off the estate,
unless his conduct was so bad as to make
it a blessing to the people to get rid of
him. And, at all times, they have been
known to reside upon the estate, and to
take a personal interest in the welfare of
their tenantry."

I certainly do believe that the qualities
of heart and mind come in many cases by

inheritance," answered Julia, " though, of
course, education and training have a good
deal to do with it. For, without a proper
and well-ordered education, the heart and
mind, both, are liable to be distorted
and corrupted. Bad influences must be
counteracted by education. However, there
is a good deal in the natural and inherited
disposition, and this, aided and fortified by
education, may be said to produce the
perfect character. Oh, dear ! we are at
the old place, at last. I always feel so
happy to be near home."

They had arrived at the entrance gate to
Ash Grove House, where they alighted
and walked up the avenue to the house.

CHAPTER XY.

PADDY Larks HOLDS A COUNCIL OF WAR — •
OPPOSITION OF VIEWS — THE Rising Postponed.


From the view we have given of the
leading men of the organization of White-feet,
in a preceding chapter, the reader
must have perceived the extreme absurdity
of the movement which contemplated the
overthrow of British power on Irish soil,
and the establishment of a policy that was
to give peace and plenty to the Irish
people. One might naturally wonder how
it was possible for any sane man to regard
this movement in any other light than that
of the most extreme madness ; and yet
there were men who talked of it, and held
it up to view as something that was really
entitled to consideration, if not to any high
degree of respect. But it was the mystery

which surrounded it, and the hidden roots
from which it sprang, that threw an air
of interest around it, and gave to it that
degree of importance with which obscurity
ever invests the things which it surrounds.
There was a sort of political mirage in the
public mind which made the people imagine
that there was a magnitude in this insurrectionary
movement that threatened extraordinary
results, either for good or for
eviL This notion, therefore, kept them
swaying between hope and fear; and
though they leant to the side of order, as
being more in accordance with their natural
feelings and desires, yet they were
unwilling to throw any decided obstructions
in the way of a movement that might,
after all, result in some good to them.
This was human nature ; and it was upon
this basis that the whole design was
founded by those who had a private interest
in its development, but who kept
themselves aloof from any immediate consequences,
of a dangerous character, which
might arise from it.

General Doherty was not the presiding
genius of this grand creation. He had his
private ends in view, too ; that is, if such

a man could have any ends beyond the
mere passing gratification of a perverse
nature and an idle disposition ; but lie
was only a shuttle in the hands of those
who were the real fabricators of the web.
However, even the general was, in the
eyes of Paddy Larkin, all-sufficient in
himself, and a man to be followed in every
track of patriotism which he might think
proper to take. In fact, Paddy believed
him to be only second to Dan himself, as
O'Connel was familiarly designated. Nay
more, we believe that if a difference of
opinion occurred between Dan and the
general, Paddy would side with the latter,
and deem Dan a traitor.

In point of fact it was the policy of the
promoters of Whitefeetism to cause it to
be believed that Dan was at the head of it ;
and that even when he seemed to discourage
it by openly and publicly speaking
against it, he privately supported it, and
called it the right arm of his power. This
seeming contradiction was explained by a
reference to what was called Dan's cautery
(acuteness) whereby he deceived the
Government and preserved himself from a
prosecution.

VOL. ir. Q

'' For" (the wiseacres would thus reason)
*' if Dan let on that he was the head of 'em
(the AYhitefeet) the Government would
take hold of him on a pint of law and
clap him in (that is, in prison) ; but — you
perceive — when he portends he is again 'em,
he shuts the clapper of the Government,
and he works underhand for the good of
the people."

Such was the idea that was impressed
"upon the people through the artifice of
those who desired to gratify their vanity,
revenge, or malignity, or, it may be, some
purpose of gain. For it must here be
observed that the Whitefeet Society, like
many, if not most societies of its kind,
was not the production of any specific
class of malcontents in the state, but was
rather, in its inception, and in its growth,
the result of a variety of passions, among a
variety of individuals, in a variety of
classes. It may be supposed to have
originated in some such way as this.

An idle and drunken vagabond is employed
as a farm-servant ; he neglects his
work of course ; and probably seduces one
or two other servants from their work, so
as to accompany him, and aid him, by their

pecuniary resources, in this idle and drunken
orgies. The farmer rebukes him, and
threatens him with dismissal if he should
repeat his acts of negligence and disorder.
But he does repeat them ; and the farmer
accordingly sends him away with an injunction
never to come near his house.
The idler goes off, but swears he'll be
revenged. He casts around him to discover
somebody placed in a predicament
similar to his own — that is, an idle, drunken
vagabond dismissed from work : he discovers
one or two, of course ; and they
agree to cast their lots together, and make
out a decent living in the best way they
can. This decent living of course, means
to ensfao'e themselves in the undercurrent
of patriotism, and male the tray clear for
Dan,

There was no country, perhaps, in the
world more favourably circumstanced than
was Ireland at the time of which we write,
and even at the present time, for vagabonds
of all sorts to make out an idle living under
the pretext of patriotism. For the whole
country was a sort of quagmire of agitation;
and seemed as if no possible state of
things could afford the people a healthy
Q 2

recreation save that of associations, branch
associations, committees, sub-committees,
and all sorts and sizes of organizations, for
patriotic purposes. Hence it is that the
idler of whom we speak, cognizant of all
this, had a ready resource, when all else
failed, to provide himself with meat and
drink under the wings of the interminable
agitation. When the idler and his companion
idlers have sworn undying fidelity
to each other, they, according to the well
understood process in such cases, dub
themselves with a name — such name as
may be calculated to attract the attention
and win over the favourable feelings of the
people to their cause — (they, of course, call
their vagabondism a cause). The name
must be a plain and simple one — no outlandish
lingo for them : it must also be
affecting and tender, so as to create sympathy.
Our idler and his fellows, according
to this view of the case, hit upon the name
Whitefeet. That was plain ; it was affecting
too, for it implied that they went
barefoot, and that their feet were clean and
white. Nothing, surely, could be better
invented than that ; and nothing could
call up a finer sympathy than the idea that

such nice tender young men should be
carried so far, by the inspiration of
patriotism, as to sacrifice everything, even
to their shoes and stockings; and thus
expose their delicate white feet to the
weather and the slush. *' Whitefeet then
let it be," said our idler and his brother
vagabonds.

The next step was to get some fellow to
join them who could read and write ; or,
failing in this, to win over the kind offices
of the schoolmaster of the village; or,
failing in this again, to get the tailor who
was out of employment like themselves, on
account of the drop) and the love of liberty,
and who was smart at the pen, because he
learned its use at the poor school in the
neighbouring town where he was brought
up as a poor orphan. In this last case
there was never any failure ; the drop-thing,
and liberty-loving tailor was always
ready to devote his accomplishments to
the service of his country ; and, accordingly,
he would write the notices, proclamations,
and ejectments ; and draw out the coffins
and Death's heads and crossed bones
above the " u'ritin' " on the '' Tale notices,^^
He was great at flourishes, too ; and that

was of the utmost importance, because,
seeing the impossibility of obtaining brains
for the purpose of such an agitation, the
next best thing — indeed, the only thing
that could supply this want was — flourishes.
It is not clear that brains are at all needed
in sound patriotic agitations, such as we
speak of, provided there be an ample
supply of flourishes. And for this the
schoolmaster, that is, the b, I. a, bla, or
ovar-and-ivhacJc schoolmaster is, next to
the drojj-and'liberty-loving tailor, about the
best manufacturer that can be had. Indeed,
it is a draw-stakes between the two.
Nature would seem to have cast the two
races of prodigies in the same mould, that
is, if Nature had anything at all to do with
either, which is doubtful.

However this may be, our Whitefeet
having secured the tailor and his flourishes,
commenced operations by sending out a
]proclamation, as they called the sheet of
dirty brown foolscap paper posted on the
walls of the various villages around, inclose
proximity to the churches and chapels,
and in some instances on the very walls of
those sacred edifices themselves.

The proclamation was as follows : —

To All Three Patriots, and Lovers

OF THEIR Country, Greeting'

Froth Grancr Formation of the Whitefeet,

This is to inform all concerned that from
and after this date, wrote at the bottom,
all farmers, farmer's wives, farmer's sons,
and daughters, and all tradesmen, high and
low ; and all persons whomsoever, of every
class, creed, and calling', who are for the
good of the Country, and hears the voice
of Freedom, they are not to refuse eaten',
and drinking' and all sorts of nourishment
to the noble "WHiitefeet, the proud patriots
of Ireland, at any hour of day or night,
sjpesliilly in the night, when they're sick
and sore in hardship, and could, and sweat,
when their business calls.

No more at present, further information
to be gave in further Proclamations.

Given under my hand and sale this
28th day of August 18—

Captain Whitefoot,

'Spoliation Hall, Ireland.

This was done in a variety of large
capitals, particularly at the head and foot ;
and garnished with the needful flourishes.

There Twas a drapery of nourishes at the
top, which covered the address, and fell in
festoons down the sides ; and the lettering
throughout was what the party themselves
called copperplates though the tailor declared,
" uioon his conscience, that it wasn't
half equal to what he could do if he was
broke in a trifle ; and that the world would
see that soon."

It is unnecessary to say that after this
glowing announcement had appeared on
the public places throughout B all j dine and
the surrounding villages, but more especially
on the dead walls and doors and
shutters of abandoned houses in the towns
along the vale of Orma, the Whitefeet
organization soon developed itself into considerable
dimensions, and all the idleness,
drunkenness, and rags of the county became
its main pillars of strength and
action. Eating I and drinhmcj ! and idleness
! What three more powerful elements
could be incorporated in any grand design
which required the co-operation of nature's
sweltering nobility. The key-note was
struck, and the piece was a success.

Know comes the next tributary to swell
the already vigorous flood. Some gentleman,

or-man of substance who goes by
that name, is disappointed in some scheme
of self-interest ; or, it may be, that he has
knelt in vain at the altar of Venus : he
must, therefore, seek revenge ; and how
better or safer can he accomplish his purpose
than by quietly conniving at the
Gi^nd Association, and using it at his
discretion. It is his interest, he says to
himself, to support it, and so he does support
it, at least so far as his peculiar
interest requires him to do so. Here then
is a wide field for the growth of additional
strength to the Whitefeet Association.
Every sort of man, with every sort of
passion, finds a resource here ; and to this
reservoir of devilry he will therefore contribute
his portion of the black, vile, and
deadly passions which compose it.

But the entire structure is not confined
to such materials. Others are led into it
through the restlessness and buoyancy of
youth, and the ambition to distinguish
themselves as lovers of their country and
advocates of liberty. The sons of small
farmers, apprentices of drapers, and others
of the humbler classes, give their adhesion
to this organization of patriotism, for the

purpose of displaying their love of country,
and the spirit of valour wbicli animates
their bosoms; so that, " from small beginnings
mighty fabrics rise," and the Society
of Whitefeetism, or by whatever name any
such illegal combination may be known,
swells into large proportions, and becomes,
accordingly, capable of doing a good deal
of mischief. The mischief, however, does
not consist in any amount of harm that is
done to the throne, or to the stability of
the sovereign power, for in that regard
there is not a shadow of danger involved ;
but is confined altogether to the annoyance
and robberies, and in some cases maiming,
and murders which are inflicted upon individuals
throughout the country; especially
where malice and revenge are the
guiding motives of the particular nightly
attacks.

In giving this general outline of the
mode in which those illegal societies are
for the most part formed, and of the
motives in which they originate, it is not
to be inferred that the society under review,
that of the Whitefeet, was created by
Paddy Larkin, or by any of those whom
we have introduced to the acquaintance

of the reader. By no means ; for although
Paddy was an important personage
in the society, most especially in that
branch of it called the Balhjdine Section
yet he had nothing whatever to do with
the origination of the society in the first
place, or with the Rules and Regulations
by which it was constituted and governed,
in the second. He found it ready to his
hand ; and he thought it a pity not to help
it along for the " good of the country ^

Nor can it, in fairness, be said that he
was actuated by any feeling of ill-will or
malice towards the gentry and the farmers
who employed him, from time to time,
when he was disposed to work. No ; he
was, generally speaking, a harmless and
good-natured young man, but he inherited
the idle propensity and spirit of recklessness
which had characterized his father;
and he converted these into the channel of
patriotism, which so many of his betters
had done before him, were then doing, and
did do after he had passed away from this
sublunary scene.

In a word, Paddy did not wish to hurt
any one; but only to help his country
along in the path of freedom ; and if need

must, to strike down lier enemies if they
obstructed that path. The truth must be
told : — Paddy was introduced into the
society by his friend Larry Doherty, the
general, who used to do his tailoring-work
for him, that is, when he had a decent
Sunday coat or breeches to make. For
Larry was a good tailor, and a town tailor
to boot, which latter circumstance gave a
great advantage over the mere country
tailor in the eyes of young men who wished,
as was natural, to appear in well-fitting
attire in the presence of their sweethearts.
And Paddy's sweetheart, Anty Dreelin,
liked Larry's cut on a breeches or coat
better than that of any tailor she ever saw.
From this close intimacy between our two
heroes, it was impossible that Paddy should
not become indoctrinated with the views
and opinions of the tailor; and it was
equally impossible, considering his natural
bent, that he should not take fire when he
heard those views and opinions expressed
and urged in the rushing and glowing
eloquence with which the tailor was so
wondrously gifted.

He could spake for hours," as Paddy
used to say, " without as much as turning'

a hair; and the louder he gave it out,
the smarter he stuck to it. I often heard
Dan himself, down there at the town ; and
he was no more to Larry in loudness and
holding' out than that Httle bit of a
shame there is to Thermal waterfall."

Hence it is manifest that no power ol:
resistance, of which Paddy, at least, was
possessed, could save him from the all-conquering
eloquence of Larry. Besides,
Larry was a general ; and, to crown all, he
was the right-hand man of Dan himself.
Then it may be imagined that Larry was
the originator of the Society of Whitefeet.
That, however, would be a mistake. Larry
found it in operation, ready to his hand, as
in the case of Paddy; and he merely turned
it to account.

There was another gentleman, who lived
in a neighbouring town, who was a butcher
by trade, and with whom Larry got acquainted
by means of the common feeling
of patriotic ardour which influenced them
both. For it was impossible in those
stirring times of political agitation, that
two such men as the butcher and Larry,
who met on the public platform at every
meeting that took place for miles around,

should not be attracted to each other, and
communicate to one another their views
and hopes. And so it came to pass that
Larry was sworn a member of the new
organization by his patriotic colleague, the
Cushport butcher. Even as Paddy admired
the fierce and thundering eloquence of the
tailor, so the tailor admired the bold speech
and gigantic strength of the butcher. And
as Paddy believed that the tailor was the
immediate lieutenant of Dan himself, so
the tailor believed that the butcher occupied
that envied position.

Thus the concatenation of hidden influence
encircled the society, and preserved
its several parts in a state of wonderful
harmony. Now, as the tailor looked upon
the butcher as a great and mysterious man
in the grand cause, and Paddy looked upon
the tailor in the same light ; so the young
men whom Paddy had enlisted in and
about Bally dine looked upon him with
equal admiration and awe ; and to speak
the whole truth, Paddy was not backward,
any more than his superiors, in enforcing
this delusion upon his followers : for he
would shake his head with great solemnity,
when talking over public matters in their

presence, especially when Dan's name was
mentioned, and intimate that lie knew all
about it.

Area," "he would then say, "how could
the likes o' ye know about it ? leave that
to them as got the power and knowledge
from high quarters. The word o' command
is — ' Do your duty, and ax no questions.'
There is the way to be loyal to the cause,
and to gain credit hereafter wit those as
will have the dividing' of everything according'
to desart'*

Having now endeavoured to place before
the reader such a picture of the Whitefeet
organization as we thought necessary to a
right understanding of its objects and proceedings,
we shall proceed to an account
of a council of war which was called by
Paddy Larkin on the night of the day on
which he had paid his visit to the general.

On that day, as the reader is aware,
Paddy had received important instructions
from his superior in command; and had,
besides, been renewed in his zeal and enthusiasm
for the great cause, not only by
the fervid and poetic eloquence of his chief,
but also by the manly bearing and spirited
appeals of the other three leaders who had

been present on the occasion. "Whilst,
therefore, the instructions were fresh in his
mind, and the ardour that had been new-kindled
in his breast, was still glowing
there, he deemed it expedient that no time
should be lost in communicating both to
his immediate followers at and around
Ballydine. For this purpose it appeared
to him, as he left the general's residence,
and was strolling sedately down the lane —
we say sedately, because, although his
bosom was on fire after the recent contact,
yet he deemed it advisable to repress all
evidence of it in the open streets ; and to
give it free vent only when he got out on
the country road, and was crossing through
the fields — it appeared to him that two or
three of the most influential of his followers
about Ballydine would be sufficient for him
to communicate with on the matters now
engrossing his attention. He resolved,
therefore, to have a look about the town,
in case they might be there, and if so, to
appoint a place and hour for them to meet
him, at or near Ballydine, on that night.

Having extricated himself from the lane,
and the small street upon which it
debouched, he struck into Mill Street ; and

there he paused, in order to gather up his
mind sufficiently to determine in what
direction he should turn his steps. He
pursed out his lips, and looked down at his
feet, to assist the working of his mind ;
and then placing his blackthorn stick
deliberately under his left arm, and thrusting
both his hands into his breeches
pockets — his new beaver being fixed
jauntily over his right temple — he moved
steadily up Mill Street, keeping close to
the shops on the right side. He whistled
softly as he went, if that might be called a
whistle which consisted only in a sort of
concentrated breathing, with a low grunt
at the end of each bar. He kept his right
eye on the shop doors and windows as he
passed on, and the left towards the street,
so as to observe any one that loitered
about, either inside doors, or outside in the
public way. In this way he proceeded
until he reached Ladder Street, up which
he turned. This was a wide, half-deserted
street leading out into the eastern extremity
of the Green or Market place. Towards
the end of this street, near the point where
it opened upon the Green, he met Ned
Doolin coming out from a public-house.
VOL. ir. E

He was of all men the one he was most
pleased to meet ; and so having saluted
each other, they stepped into the public-house
from which Ned had issued, for the
purpose, as Paddy said, of wetting their
whistle. Here, at the small counter, while
taking their glass of whisky, Paddy
opened himself to Ned, as far as it was
prudent to do so in that place ; and exacted
from him a promise to meet him that night
at Bally dine Cross, at the hour of eight
o'clock, and to bring certain others with
him, whom he named.

For," said Paddy, "to-night I have to
tell yes something' that ye ought to know
constrain' of the cause."

Having noah relieved himself, so far, of
the burden of thought that had been
oppressing him, he wished Ned a good
evening, and struck out across the Green,
and in upon the road leading to Ballydine.
Having gone about a quarter of a mile
along this road, he jumped into the fields
on the right, and took the short cut homewards.
Here, as he tripped along over
new-mown fields surrounded by hedges and
scattered trees, he gave scope to his
feelings. He leaped and jumped, sang

and whistled, and spoke aloud the liigli
imaginings which were careering through
his brain.

'* Come, Paddy, my boy," he would
exclaim, addressing himself, " your time
is come : a gould chain or a wooden leg is
the word. Who-wu ! Is, my rattler,
that's the word. You're not Paddy Larkin
no longer ; but you're Mr. Patrick 0' Larkin
of Ballydine, Agitan General of the Bally-dine
section of the Great Army of Freedom.
That's what you are, my worm-cut ther.
What's you're mother say to that, eh ?
What 'ud your father say, if he was a living'
now, I wonder ? What 'ud he say, eh?
Wheel-wu ! Long life to the general —
that's Mr. Larry O'Doherty — be course,
he must have a round as well as myself;
for, you see, there's nothing' like the round
for a general. 'Tis the Milesian touch,
do you mind me. Didn't I hear Larry
saying' that all the ould generals had it, such
as Owen Rhu O'Neil. And there was the
O'Donnels, and the O'Eourkes, and the
O'Sullivans, and the 0' — but, no by
shakes, they wasn't O's — the Maguires,
no, they was not. What was they then ?
They was generals, that's certain ; but was
u 2

the O's ? No, I'm bothered there. But
there's the O'Connels — there's Dan — isn't
he worth a hundred Mares. Truth !
what's Maguires but trances (spears of
grass) compared to the O'Connels. And
then there's the OTlaherty's, and the
O'Doherty's — that's the general,— by
shakes, he wasn't the first o' the name ;
and the 0'— I can't say— the 0'— 'isn't
clear to me yet, somehow — the O'Larhins,
I don't know where I am now, — the
O'Larhins. It don't make right noise on
my ear, somehow. Never mind, I'll ax the
general. Wheeu-u-u ! "

And here he rushed at a hedge, and
sprang to its top like a ball, and then down
into the next field, with a shout that rang
along the deep ravine on his right. In
this way he proceeded on his homeward
journey until he came out again upon the
Ballydine road. Then he walked on silently
until he came to the Cross. He passed
Peter Mackey's public-house, and turned
into Moll Dreelin's. It is needless to say
that he received a most hearty welcome
from Moll, and that Anty smiled and
blushed, and cast down her eyes, and cast
them up again ; and felt her heart going.

as she confessed to Paddy the same evening
^' going like a hells' It was a strange
comparison, but we suppose she had
reference to motion and music ; and wished
to intimate to her favoured knight that her
heart heat with ijJeasure when she saw
him.

We may as well inform the reader in
this place that the council of war, to beheld
according to the arrangement made
between Paddy Larkin and Ned Doolin,
was to hold its deliberations under Moll
Dreelin's roof. There were good reasons
for this selection of a hall of meeting, not
the least of which were the deep sympathy
of Moll and her daughter with the cause,
and the convenient situation of the house
for the purpose in hand.

The meeting took place at the hour
appointed. Ned Doolin appeared first,
accompanied by two others from the neighbourhood;
then came Bill Clearyy, with
others from a village hard by. Our readers
have been already introduced to the two
gentlemen named, that is, Ned Doolin and
Bill Clearyy ; for they appeared at the
captain's Glazement on the evening of the
dance. They were the sons of small

farmers residing on the outskirts of the
village, and were young men of respectable
character. They were industrious and
sober ; and in their general bearing manifested
nothing that was indicative of a
disposition to do wrong to anybody.

Of the five young men who accompanied
them, and who also belonged to the same
neighbourhood, we shall only notice one
who, although resident near Ballydine at
the time of which we write, was not a
native of that part of the country, but had
recently settled down there as a day-labourer.
He was a short, stout man, of
strong and repulsive features, with a twist
in one of his eyes which gave to his otherwise
vulgar and gloomy countenance an
aspect of villainous import. His name was
Jeremiah Grinnex, or Jer Grinnex, as he
was usually styled. The other four men
were farm-labourers who belonged to
localities in the immediate vicinity of
Ballydine, and were smart, active, fostering
young fellows, who loved a spree, and
were nowise loth to take a hand in a
fight.

The hall of council was Moll Dreelin's
bedroom ; a spacious apartment enough.

just behind the kitchen, and away from
the observation of any stragglers who
might be passing outside. A couple of
low benches conveyed into it from the
kitchen by Anty, Moll's daughter, and
Paddy's intended spouse, supplied all the
seats that were required ; for Paddy and
Ned Doolin took their seats on the edge of
Moll's bed. When all were seated, and
the door firmly closed, Paddy opened the
meeting with the following brief speech : —

Now, friends, I have serious news to
tell ye. I was this day with the general
and other leading' men of our 'association,
and the words that were spoke there made
me call this meeting', so that I might let ye
know what's before us. The first thing
we have to do now is to take a strict
account of our enemies all around this
part of the country, so that we may be
prepared to deal with 'em when the hour
comes. The next things to swear in all
three men that's for us, and ready to join
in the business 'ef ore us ; and to put down
their names on the roll. After that
we'll begin the risen, plaise God, and
strike for our country."

That's the chat," remarked Jer

Grinnex, from the lower corner of the
room, while the squint eye blazed with an
unnatural light.

Silence, there," cried Ned Doolin,
"let us hear all that's to be said."

All fair and square'' resumed Paddy,
ye must first hear the orders from headquarters,
and then let every man give his
own opinion. That's the best way always.
Well, as I was saying', when every thing '11
be ready, the risen' '11 begin. But, there's
another matter now that we must settle
among ourselves ; and 'tis the general's
wish that we should plaise ourselves about
that; it is this — are we, or are we not,
to ate and drink full and plenty in the
morning' before the risen' ? Some of the
leading' men, to-day, at the general's house,
were for the latin' and the drinking', and
some were again' it ; but what I say is as
this, — let every man choose according' as it
agrees wit him, and according' as he can
get it. That's my opinion. Now, men, yeare
to say what ye think would be the
best, and I'll stand by what ye'll decide on."

He here blew his nose with great
vehemence, and then folded his arms over
his chest and looked around him.

Jer Grinnex was the first to speak, and
lie did so with great energy, striking his
clenched hand upon the stool on which he
sat at the close of every sentence.

I'm no man for fasten' in the morning,"
he began, " when a hard day's work is
'before me. Where's the man 'ud like it?
"Who 'ud starve, and plenty under his
hand ? Is it the rich we 'ud be spain' ?
I ax any man, who's going' to fight for his
country on an empty stomach ? Would
any man spill his sweat and blood without
known' for what ? Isn't it time for the
rich now to part wit their riches, and let
the poor have their turn ? I wouldn't fight
a stroke if I wasn't sure of getting' my
fair share of the gould and silver, and the
fine living' that's scattered about the
country, all in the hands of people
that never earned it, but took it from
our fathers 'before us, by means of that
thundering, thief, Cromwell, that robbed
and murdered the whole of us.
That's my sentiment, men, I'll say no
more."

He threw one leg over the other, and
leant back against the wall, his swivel eye
blazing with a gloomy rage, and his breast

heaving from the passion which stirred it
within.

Ned Doolin was the next to address the
meeting. He said, —

My sentiments are a little different from
yours, Jer Grinnex, my man ; just a little.
I don't understand this bio talk about
robbins here, and robbins there. Our
business is not to rob any man but to
rightly our country."

To be sure," exclaimed Bill Clearyy.

"Yes," continued Doolin, "we want to
gain freedom for our country by fair and
open means, face to face with our enemies,
and not to rob or steal from any man, no
matter whether he be rich or poor. I
wouldn't go across the road in company with
any man that would say it was his intention
to take a pin's worth of any man's property.
Let all act fair and straight, and if we are
not able to put down our enemies by fair
means, let us not disgrace our name and
family and country by such foul behaviour
as robbing and stealing. Luck or grace
couldn't come out of such work. And I
say this, it would be better for us never to
strike a stroke for the country than to
show ourselves bent upon such work as

what Jer here speaks about. 'No, sink or

swim, let honesty, at any rate, be on our

side. But, I want to know, when and

where is the rising to begin ? It's a thing

that we ought to be made sure about. It

oughtn't to be kept in the dark, or made

a mystery of. I don't care a blind needle

who is at the head or the tail of it, I must

see and understand how it is to be done —

when and where, and by what means. Weare

meeting, and talking, these twelvemonths,

and I don't see that we are a bit

nearer to being: able to do anything' now

than when we beo^an. Show us the number

of men we can depend on, and their arms,

and their commanders, and their means of

carrying on war. Show me all that, and

I'll be satisfied ; but without seeing or

knowing that, no man but a fool would

talk about a rising. And as for counting our

enemies, as Paddy Larkin says, what

enemies do we want to count ? Is it our

neighbours we should be going to kill in

cold blood ? Is that the sort of rising weare

to have ? God help us ! if that's the

sort of war we're going to have, keep me

clear of it — keep every honest man clear of

it. God in heaven forbid that I should

hurt a hair on any neighbour's head, no
matter how he might differ from me, except
I had him in a fair fight, and he on his
guard, and well-armed, like myself. I want
no dark business of that kind. By no
manner of means, Paddy Larkin. I tell
you that, and I say no more at present."

While Doolin was speaking, Paddy
Larkin's face became elongated, and wore
an expression of painful bewilderment.
He was evidently taken aback, and became
entangled in a net-work of mental confusion,
from which he knew not how to
extricate himself. Jer Grinnex, too, looked
as if he were struggling in a convulsive fit,
for his mouth was drawn up to his ear on
one side, while his squint eye on the other
side was flaring with deadly rage.

But when Bill Clearyy spoke in confirmation
of the views of his friend and companion,
Ned Doolin, which he did with
great energy and decision, the confusion
of Paddy and the fury of Jer were such as
it is impossible to describe.

The other men said nothing, for they
appeared to be altogether at sea as to the
nature of the business on which they came
to deliberate ; they therefore contented

themselves with observing, occasionally, as
the several speakers went on, that they
'' did t know how it was, but that they
would act their part, as well as others,
when the ructions were to the fore."

After Bill Clearyy had concluded his
speech, which we do not think it necessary
to record, inasmuch as it was an echo,
but an energetic echo, of the sentiments of
Ned Doolin — after he had concluded his
speech, there was a general silence observed
for some time.

At length Jer Grinnex cast his flaming
eye over at Paddy Larkin, and said, —

Are we to be put down by fear I'd
like to know ? I'm not a coward anyway,
and I'll not consent to put off the business
without a blow at our enemies. Must we be
always lookin' at 'em latin' and drinking' of
the best, and living' in clover, while we're
starving', I may say, on potatoes and salt ?
No, I'll never consent to that."

He continued in this strain for sometime,
interspersing his observations with
oaths and imprecations, which we, for
obvious reasons, decline to report. But
when he had exhausted himself, Paddy
Larkin essayed to speak. He appeared

completely clio-fallen, and stammered out
a few sentences expressive of Lis regret
that the meeting Lad not come to a decision
on tLe points lie Lad submitted to
them, but Loped that in the course of a
little time a better under standing should be
arrived at. However, as it was, Le would
postpone tLe rising for a time; and Le
would now conclude tLe business of the
evening with a treat. Ned Doolin and
Bill Clearyy declined taking any drink ; they
therefore rose, and taking leave of their
associates, left the room and directed their
steps homeward. TLe others, However,
remained, and Laving ordered whisky,
indulged in liberal potations until midnight,
assisted and enlivened by tLe presence and
conversation of Moll Dreelin.

CHAPTER XVI.

AN UNEXPECTED MEETING — Partridge
SHOOTING.

The family of Brookfield Hall had been
divided for a few days — divided, that is
to say, not by any rebellions opposition of
feeling or opinion, but by a separation of
its members in point of place. In other
words, some of them were away from the
Hall on a visit of friendship. When Mrs.
Credan had made up her mind to return to
Mooloch, to her own immediate family, she
desired to take Miss Moore with her for,
at least, a few days. This was in furtherance
of her wise plan of separating that
young lady from the influence of Herbert
Granville's society, and of placing her more
within the influence of the society of Joe
Whitmore. This was, of course, a secret
between herself and her sister, Mrs. Moore.

Fanny Moore was not informed of this
design. Oh, no ! that would never suit
the depth and wisdom of the great plan on
which the genius of Mrs. Credan was so
intently employed.

We have already had under our notice
the discussions, or rather the deliberations,
for there was but little of discussion, of
those two experienced matrons in reference
to the future welfare of Fanny Moore ; and
there we have seen how Mrs. Credan
placed her whole hope, such as it was, of
Fanny's recovery from the abyss of love
down which she was gliding by the light of
Herbert's heart, on the absence of that
young lady from the scene of her hallucination.
This was her only hope, we say ;
but even in this she was not quite at ease ;
for there was still about her a dim and
lingering reflection of scenes and feelings
of other days connected with herself which
caused her to doubt sometimes as to the
efficacy of the remedy she was now preparing
for Fanny's ailment. Still something
should be tried to ward off the evil
of having her niece united to a man who
was little better than a pauper, and to
promote her union with another who was

one of the wealthiest landed proprietors in
the county. There was a misgiving here,
too ; for the pride of the Cretan could
not be so easily eradicated from the breast
of Mrs. Credan. She was a Credan, and
she felt as a Credan. The reader will
remember that she and her husband were
of the same family stock. And the
Moores ! There again ! What a brilliant
light played over the current of their
ancient blood ! This was an obstacle in
the way of the flowing thoughts of Mrs.
Credan as she contemplated her design.
Then uprose before her mind the plebeian
origin of Joe Whitmore; and then again
came streaming in her vision the high-born
glories of the Granvilles. These were all
disturbing causes to Mrs. Credan. But
still Mrs. Credan was a woman not easily
subdued when she took it into her head todo
anything, even though its accomplishment
appeared to her beset with many
difficulties. Indeed, she was one of those
women who are fond of essaying things
merely because they are difficult, and
because they are contrary to what their
own experience teaches them. Such persons,
and they are by no means few in

VOL. II. s

number, seem to enjoy a peculiar qualification
in forcing upon their own minds a
conviction that the course they had adopted
on any particular occasion was the best,
although they have a strange hankering
feeling within their breasts that it was not
the best.

Mrs. Credan, as we have already hinted,
was once brought under the dominion of
love; she experienced all its sweet pleasures,
all its rapturous delights. The
reflection of these still, on occasion, lighted
up her heart, and called back her memory
to the days when they were in full operation
upon her. She liked this ; and yet,
strange to say, she disliked it too. What
self-contradiction appears to exist in the
heart of woman. The object of Mrs. Cretan'
s love had given her no cause to turn
away from him ; but a wealthier man, in
the person of Mr. Credan, presented himself
to her view, recommended by her family,
and sustained by all the influence that
wealth, high-breeding, and a fine presence
could enlist. In a moment of caprice,
without reflection, and perhaps without a
clear conception of the consequences of her
act, she submitted to the urgent entreaties

of her family, and plighted lier faith to
Mr. Credan. They were married ; and
the man whom she had loved, and who
loved ber, withdrew into retirement ; never
married, but was passing his days in calm
contentment amid his books and farming
occupations.

Sow it would be unfair to say, or to insinuate
in the slightest degree, that Mrs.
Credan ever entertained a feeling of infidelity
to her husband. Not at all ; she
was too virtuous, too noble a woman for
that ; nay, more, she would die rather than
be guilty of anything so unjust and so dishonourable.
But still it cannot be denied
and we do not by this mean to throw
the least slur upon her character — but it
cannot be denied that she retained within
the secret folds of her heart a tender remembrance
of him to whom she had once
given her affection. And is this to be
wondered at ? By no means. For it must
be borne in mind that she never really
loved any but him, he was the only love of
her life : how then was that love to be torn
from her heart, and flung aside as if it
were a mere weed growing out of place ?
Impossible. And he, in his secluded life
s 2

cherished Ms love for lier, but lie cherished
it as a wise and virtuous man. He would
not, lie could not, he was incapable of
entertaining a dishonourable thought ; but
he could not tear from his heart, nor did
he trj, the deep, silent, changeless love
that rested undying there. He knew that
she had been drawn away from his side by
the influence of her family, and, perhaps,
by her own momentary thoughtlessness ;
and though he blamed her, his blame was
mingled with pity ; and that pity kept the
flame living in his bosom.

Such then was Mrs. Credan's state of
mind and feeling while devising and carrying
out her plan for the liberation of her
niece, Fanny Moore, from the love of
Herbert Granville. Was not this, all
things considered, a monstrous contradiction
? '' Oh, woman, woman, thy name is
Vanity ! " the reader will exclaim. Be not
too hasty, gentle reader. Mrs. Credan's
conduct may still admit of an explanation
to her credit. There is no doubt that
judging from her own feelings and experience,
she ought to be the last in the world
to cast impediments in the way of her
niece's love : so far from doing that, she

should, one would think, facilitate the
accomplishment of that love by every
legitimate means within her power. And
how came it that she acted in this inconsistent
and contradictory manner ? The
simplest explanation of the puzzle is just
this. She did not really know that Fanny
Moore and Herbert Granville loved each
other at all. This idea she never allowed
to enter her mind, and she was led into
this error not only by her sister, Mrs.
Moore, but also by Fanny herself. Here,
then, is another puzzle. Why did Fanny
conceal her love from her mother and her
aunt ? She loved Herbert, as the reader
is aware, with all the fulness of her heart
and the fervour of her soul ; she thought
of him alone ; she felt for him alone ; she
would live or die for him alone : why
then did she lead her mother and aunt to
believe that there was nothing in her relations
with Herbert beyond an ordinary
friendship ? The reader will again cry
out, " Oh, woman, thou art a mystery ;
and most perverse are thy ways." Yet
the reader would be wrong again. There
is nothing indefensible, nothing inconsistent,
nothing blameworthy in this conduct

of Fanny's. She was, on the contrary,
acting in strict accordance with the laws
which nature has implanted in the breasts
of all. And what are those laws ? They
are these ; first to preserve the dearest
treasure of the heart concealed from the
polluting vision of the idle and the curious ;
second, to preserve With equal inviolability
the secrets of those in whose love we live ;
and third, to use all the art that our ingenuity
supplies, in order to effect these two
purposes. Such are the laws of nature as
far as this subject, which we are now
considering, is concerned. When Fanny,
therefore, wrapped herself up in the paradise
of her own thoughts, and shut out the
view of her love from inquisitive eyes, she
was only doing that which the highest and
purest virtue taught her, and which the
very sanctity of her feelings suggested.

Here, then, behave endeavoured to justify
the conduct of the two women, the married
and the single one, against the thoughtless
aspersions of the reader. And we have
done this in the pure interest of truth,
because we know the reader is but too apt
to ascribe improper and unworthy motives
to persons whose actions he does not

understand ; and most especially if those
persons happen to be women ; for in this
case, it is a favourite resource, where there
is any difficulty in unravelling motives of
action, to ascribe them to the mysterious
nature of that inscrutable being, woman.
The truth would seem to be that the
superior nature, the higher refinement of
woman tends to withdraw the operation of
her mind and feelings from the immediate
penetration and cognizance of the ruder,
less penetrating, and less refined sex.
Men's minds are too gross and too coarse
to measure with exactness the delicate
operations of female sensibility. This in
its tender and subtle play eludes the
vulgar examination of men. To be sure,
there are degrees of refinement, both in
men and women. And, therefore, there
are men whose refined and noble nature
can keep pace with the most delicate and
ethereal nature of woman ; can appreciate
her most exquisite sensibility, and enter
into the most secret recesses of her feelings.
We trust, therefore, that the reader
will bear all this in mind, and remove
from his thoughts those vulgar and misshapen
ideas which would distort and

depreciate the pure and noble character of
woman.

Having said this much, in order to account
for the apparent inconsistency in
the conduct of Fanny and her aunt, we
shall now follow them into the Credan
mansion at Mooloch.

Harry Moore accompanied his sister on
this occasion, for he was desirous of having
one or two days' sport along the hills in
that portion of the county. With that
view he took with him his gun and dogs,
and whatever else was required in furtherance
of his object. The Organs were a
very amiable and worthy family, and
occupied a mansion and demesne that were
not inferior in magnificence and beauty to
any of those around them. Fanny was
quite delighted with the change; and
especially as it was so long since she had
before visited her uncle's residence — not,
indeed, since she was a very small girl.
Her cousins were very nice and cheerful
girls, and she felt now quite at home with
them, seeing that they had been — at least,
the two eldest — at Brookfield Hall with
their mother on her recent visit. Harry
went off at once to the hills and coverts,

accompanied by this cousin, Harry Credan,
to have a fusillade at the partridges and
woodcocks. Old Mr. Credan — he was not
very old either — was a cheerful, good-humoured
man, who liked to see every one
happy around him, and contributed all he
could — and that was a good deal — to
ensure this happiness. Mrs. Credan was
gracious and loving beyond anything that
Fanny had ever noticed in her before. So
that everything promised a pleasant and
delightful visit. This went on for the
first day ; that is, the family enjoyed
themselves, among themselves, deliciously ;
and Fanny met with nothing to interrupt
the even and bright flow of her
spirits. But on the evening of the second
day, an event occurred which entirely
altered the current of her feelings, and
bade her think of returning home.

On this evening, at the hour of three
o'clock a waggon came dashing up the
avenue leading to Mooloch House. After
it had reached the out-offices on the eastern
side of the mansion two men jumped down
from it, accoutred with fowling bags, shot-pouches,
and powder-flasks, and carrying
each in his hand a double-barrel fowling-piece.

Two dogs were also taken out of
the waggon, united bj a belt fastened at
either end to a small chain encircling the
neck of each dog. The two men were no
less personages than our old acquaintances,
Joe Whitmore, and Peter Mackey the
publican of Ballydine. Peter took Whit-more's
gun in his disengaged hand, and
passing around to the courtyard, followed
by the dogs, made his way to the kitchen,
while Whitmore strode up the steps to the
hall-door, and having obtained admittance,
he soon presented himself in the drawing-room.


The ladies, that is, Mrs. Credan, the two
Misses Credan, and Fanny Moore were
looking over some new dresses which had
been brought home that afternoon, at the
time the waggon drove up the avenue,
hence they were not taken aback at the
entrance of that gentleman into the .
It is true, that when Mrs.
Credan said, upon seeing the waggon
approach, '' Oh dear, that is Mr. Whit-more's
waggon, and that is himself,"
Fanny Moore started a little, and changed
colour slightly. She evidently felt annoyed
at the approaching intrusion.

The other young ladies, on the contrary,
looked pleased, and said, almost at the
same moment, —

Oh, shan't we have fun with this
monkey ! " " Oh, for some fun with the
buffoon ! "

They were not very nice expressions,
to be sure ; but yet they were such as
could not fail to show the sort of estimation
in which the young ladies held the
visitor, and the character which he bore
in their circle.

"When he entered the drawing-room Mrs.
Credan received him with her usual politeness,
and asked him to be seated, while
the young ladies, including Miss Moore,
treated him with becoming civility, though
the Misses Credan could scarcely suppress
the titter which was rising to their lips,
or Miss Moore the displeasure which was
curling around her brow.

"I'm going to try the coverts, Mrs.
Credan," he said, as he sat down, " I
don't know whether I shall have any
sport."

Yes, I hope you shall," replied Mrs.
Credan, "I have heard Harry Moore and
my son say that the partridge and woodcock

are showing on the hills, at the
coverts."

''I hope to tumble over some o' them
very soon then — crack ! how I like the
sport," were his next observations.

Then turning round to the young ladies
his eyes particularly directed to Miss
Moore — he said, —

There is another kind of shooting,
however, which I prefer — crack ! ladies'
charms are my particular attraction ! "

'• To be sure, Mr. Whitmore," answered
the younger Miss Credan, 'you attract
their admiration. You are like that fascinating
animal — what is its name ? — that
draws to it any living thing upon which it
sets its eyes. I think you ought to be
merciful, Mr. Whitmore, and not shoot the
prey which is so easily won."

Her eyes were sparkling with fun as she
spoke, and when she concluded she pretended
to have hit her hand against
something on the couch, which afforded
her an opportunity of giving vent to
the laughter which she had so long suppressed."


The other young ladies were also enabled
to relieve themselves in the same manner.

by seeming to be amused at the pain wliicli
lie bad inflicted upon herself.

Joe appeared a Httle confused, for be
couldn't remember the Httle animal, and
the word little was not exactly flattering
to bis imagination. However, be bad
recourse to bis never-faibng support, in an
extremity of ignorance, a loud laugh or
guffaw. And then be muttered something
about "ladies' impressions," and the
sentiments of the sex," and " unrequited
love;" and concluded by asking Miss
Moore " if sbe bad a heart susceptible of
the finer passions ? "

Before Miss Moore bad time to answer
this very important question, the younger
Miss Credan interposed, and said, —

Ob dear ! what beautiful things those
must be. How I should bke to taste them.
Pray, Mr. Wbitmore, could you obHge one
with a specimen, just a slight specimen of
those exquisite passions ? "

Tbe young ladies laughed again ; but
!Mrs. Credan observed in a very grave
tone, —

My dear, what are you talking about ?
You seem not to bave attended to the
observation made by Mr. Wbitmore. He

has spoken of the finer feelings of the
heart, and you talk as if of something that
might be worn."

This caused still greater fun, which was
still more aggravated when the same young
lady observed, in reply to her mother,—

"Of course I do, mamma; but not
exactly like a dress; but like a smile,
or a simper, or a grimace, or some nice
affectation of that sort. Is not that it,
Mr. Whitmore?"

Joe joined in the laugh which succeeded
this sally, though it was evident that his
heart was not in it, for he twisted his
under lip, and drew it along the upper
one, and then looked down at his feet.
After this performance he struck out again
in the love line ; and directing his artillery,
as before, to Miss Moore, he observed,
with what he intended as a graceful
hesitation, —

I presume — that is, I venture — that
is, I would take the liberty of saying, Miss
Moore, that the god of the silver bow —
crack !— has not yet drove the — the dart
into your tender bosom — yes — crack ! "

Here the laughter became irresistible,
and Mrs. Credan herself was obliged to

join in it, Joe laughed too ; but it was
such a laugh as a foreigner laughs when he
joins in the merriment of those whose
language he does not understand. It was
a laugh without a point, a sort of laughable
laugh. But he rallied again, and 'hem'd
twice, and then said, looking towards Miss
Moore, with much affected feeling, "It's
very hard when the son of the fair goddess
only hits one out o' the brace, and allows
the other to take to the covert — crack ! "

Yes, indeed, Mr. Whitmore," observed
the younger Miss C redan again, " he must
be a poor shot, that young gentleman ;
quite unlike you, I am sure, for you would
tumble over the brace together, and think
it no great shot either. I suppose, Mr.
Whitmore, you must have bagged a great
many birds in the course of your
shootings."

I don't mean birds," said Joe, " I
mean the fair sex."

'^ Oh, indeed; I beg pardon, Mr. Whit-more.
The fair sex ? But you wouldn't
shoot us, surely? "

'' Oh, no — crack ! — I speak metaphorically.
I mean, to strike the hearts of the
fair sex."

'' Not mine, I hope, Mr. Whitmore."

Mr. Whitmore smiled, then blushed a
little, and then laughed. After that he
rose, and wished the ladies a good-bye.
He then proceeded to the courtyard ; and
having ordered out Peter Mackey and the
dogs, he and they scampered up the hills
together.

When Joe Whitmore had left the ,
the young ladies gave full scope
to their feelings of merriment, in which
Mrs. C redan, notwithstanding all her efforts
to preserve her gravity, was forced to
participate.

Miss Moore appeared to enjoy the
ridicule too, although to a keen observer
there would appear an undercurrent of
disgust mingled in the flow of her merriment.
She absolutely disliked the man,
and could not conceal her dislike under
any affectation of humour. But the
amusement of the other two young ladies
was pure and unmixed. They regarded
him with an unchecked sense of ridicule.
He had never put forward any pretensions
to their regard, as a lover, he merely
-washed to exhibit himself to them as a
man of commanding personal qualities,

and winning manners, so as to compel
them to speak of him, in the presence of
others of the sex, especially Miss Moore,
as the head ideal of gallantry and manly
accomplishments. But it was not so
with Miss Moore. She was conscious of
his pretensions to her heart and hand,
and hence it was that while the other
young ladies could regard his awkwardness,
and ridiculous assumptions, and absurd
self-conceit without any reserve, she, on
the contrary, felt embarrassed by the
consciousness that he was endeavouring
to fasten himself upon her attention, and
to win her approbation ; and therefore
she was unable to enjoy the ridicule which
his absurd conduct provoked without a
feeling of uneasiness.

'well, I declare," observed the elder
Miss Credan, after they had ceased laughing
at the thought of his self-sufficient
buffoonery, " he is an incorrigible fool.
I don't know that I have ever seen or
heard such a compound of ignorance and
impudence. And the vanity of him, too !
Why, he would remind one of a lunatic
who had just been pronounced recovered
from the worst and most dangerous stage

VOL. ir. T

of Ills disorder. He is not absolutely
wicked ; that's all I see redeeming in him.
But I shouldn't like to trust him very far;
for I believe him to be malicious under
that exterior of harmless folly."

"Well, now, my dear," said Mrs. Credan,
*' you shouldn't talk that way. It is only
his manner that is faulty ; he is not at all
dangerous, I assure you. Ah, there are
many young ladies who would be quite
proud of his attentions. I only wish that
either of you had the good fortune of being
in his favour. Look at his property, and
his position in the county ! "When you
are as long in the world as I am, my dears,
you will entertain other opinions than
those which you have now, about such
matters."

I protest, mamma," said the younger
daughter, " I wouldn't marry Joe Whit-more,
if he were on the throne of England.
Marry him I Oh, the idea is sickening.
I tell you, mamma, whom I should
marry."

Whom ? " asked her mother.

*' A gentleman," was the reply ^ " to
whom Joe Whitmore would be a sort of
jester — not jester either — he hasn't wit

for that; but something lower, whatever
that night be."

What gentleman ? " asked the mother.
fancying the daughter meant some particular
gentleman.

Any gentleman at all that is a gentleman's
was the reply.

We shall now follow Whit more and
Mackey, and endeavour to report as much
of their conversation as we may deem interesting.
After they had passed into the
sloping grounds leading to the coverts,
Peter Mackey drew close up to the side of
Whitmore, and said, —

Well, master Joe, how did you find
the pigeon ? did she hang down her wings
and begin to coo. The Moore pigeons, by
jingo, are not very tame."

No, not very tame," replied Joe ; "but,
crack ! I'm what you may call the man
for such wild fowl. I take them sitting,
strutting, or on the wing, all alike to me.
This Moore bird of mine is worth the
plucking, and, crack ! I shall pluck her."
Peter lifted up his red nose, and observed,
with a grin, —

'' If any man can do it, you are just him.
Jingo, she is a snug plump bird too ; and
T 2

'twould be a pits that any man less than
yourself should have the plucking' of her."

'any man," exclaimed Joe, sweeping
his tongue around his upper lip, " do you
mean that stuck-up beggar, Granville ?
Peter, mark [me, — I'll cook that fellow's
liver for him ; I'll spoil his taste for fat
chicken — crack, if I don't; — the presumptuous
upstart."

"Right there," exclaimed Peter, "but
you see he boasts of his high blood ; and
he wouldn't like to be called upstart but
what is he alongside of you ? Where's his
estate? I'd like to know that. What
business has he to stand in the way of a
gentleman of property like you? How
dare he to have the impudence ? The
sooner his wizen is twisted for him the
better for all. I wonder can we depend
on Jer Grinnex to do his job."

If Grinnex doesn't do it, we have
other means of doing him up," replied
Whitmore. " We'll trap him, and spoil
his feathers for him. That would do quite
as well. Don't you think so ? But, look
here, I have a week before me now; — can
she escape my powers in that time. I'll
bring her into subjection to my will in

less than that time — crack ! you may
rely upon that fact. Show me the woman
that's able to baffle me, when I set my
genius to work."

You and herself been' in the same
house together for a week is everything,"
said Peter, '' if she don't listen to raison,
why, there's only the other way for it — that's
to make her understand herself. When
once you get those young chickens to pick
out o' your hand, there's seldom or never
any trouble with 'em after. If they
flutter a bit itself after that, 'tis nothing'.
A little soft word, like clinch ! chile! will
do their job for 'em then."

'' Oh ! leave that to me," said Joe, " I'm
the charmer for that. But here, Mackey,"
he drew himself up as he said this, and
took his companion by the collar of the
coat, then putting his mouth close to his
ear, he whispered, in a burning breath, " I
want revenge too — I'm not a man to be
despised."

That's my creed," responded Peter.
By sing, I never yet let that same revenge
grow cowujd 'till I satisfied my
stomach with it. That's what I calls the
spirit of a man."

While the two ruffians were thus communicating
their black thoughts to each
other, they had approached close to a small
covert on the slope of the hill ; and soon
heard a succession of sounds of fire-arms.
Bang, bang, came upon their ears from
either extremity of the covert. Immediately
after this they saw a part of a covey
of partridge coming towards them, and
after a slow turn or two, the birds dropped
into the brushwood a little above them.

'now for a bang," exclaimed Peter,
taking his gun from his shoulder, and eyeing
the lock ; " you go around to the right,
Master Joe, and I'll strike right up."

After a few seconds the birds rose
slowly, and passed between the two sportsmen.
Whitmore fired his two barrels and
failed to bring down a single bird ; Peter
was more successful, his two barrels went
off, and two birds came tumbling on the
ground.

*' No fault of yours," exclaimed Peter,
looking towards Whitmore ; '' you were a
little too quick, that's all — you took 'em
on the start, when they were crossing' ; but
I winged 'em in the straight line. Your
handling' was good, Master Joe ; — first

rate — I never see a man do it with a
boulder stroke : but the least bit too hot.
Jingo, you looked a man o' your inches
too, your body so straight, and your eye so
blazing."

The truth was that no man could have
handled his "weapon less skilfully than
Whitmore had done on the occasion. His
whole demeanour was awkward, clumsy,
and bungling. A milk-maid would have
shown more skill and nerve in the handling



and firing of a gun than he had displayed ;
and yet Peter praised him for his skill and
manly attitude ; and attributed his failure
to an accident which was only an evidence
of his want of skill.

Whitmore appeared to acquiesce in the
remarks of his companion, and to believe
that he really showed no want of skill or
ability in the use of his weapon. Such,
indeed, is the conduct of knaves and fools
towards each other in every department of
life. sphere the spirit of villainy exists all
sincerity, all truth, all feeling of good-will
becomes extinct between even the villains
themselves, for the rogue deems himself
wise in the exercise of his knavery'. And
the aim of this so-called wisdom is to overreach

and betray not only indifferent
persons whom chance may throw in the
way, but even the very men who are acting
together as accomplices.

Here were two men, each a ruffian in his
own way, and each bent upon his own
purpose ; but the one was an overmatch
for the other, that is to say, he was a
greater villain ; and his superiority he
exercised without the slightest feeling of
consideration for the weakness, the incapacity,
the failure, the ruin of his
companion.

Peter Mackey had his eye steadily fixed
on one object alone, and that was his own
aggrandizement, no matter how or by
what means that end was to be attained ;
even though it were by the destruction of
the man whom he was using ; and who, he
knew, was using him. He entertained nota
scintilla of kindly feeling towards him;
he would not show him the way out of
an error, or a danger, even though he
were to gain nothing by allowing him to
drop into such error or danger.

This was not, however, the character of
Whitmore. He was a villain, it is true,
but he was of a different type from Mackey.

He would readily adopt any scheme, no
matter how dark and treacherous, which he
believed would conduce to the attainment
of his cherished object; but there, it maybe
said, he stopped. His mind, to be
sure, was tainted with the spirit of villainy,
and inclined, of course, in that direction,
no matter whether he had an object or not,
but then he would not throw his strength
into the accomplishment of a piece of
rascality in which he had no direct personal
interest.

Peter Mackey, on the contrary, felt and
acted as if every deed of villainy, no
matter how remote from his own immediate
! interests, must, in the end, be
useful to him. He felt happy in the contemplation
of acts of deceit, treachery, and
wickedness. And yet, with this character
stamped upon his heart and soul, he
passed for an honest man. And not only
that, but he was pointed at by some of the
most respectable people of his village and
parish as an example of morality, of
piety, of charity, and of every Christian
attribute worthy the imitation of all who
desired to be respectable in character, and
to bear the impress of pious Christian men.

As a villain, then, Joe Whitmore was
not a match for Peter Mackey. Indeed,
Peter had no match in the county except
one, and that was Bartley Croker, the
attorney. He was certainly his match, and,
if possible, more than his match. The
publican was very 'perfect, but the attorney
was most perfect.

It may, perhaps, occur to the reader
that when Peter praised Whitmore for his
skill and ability in shooting, he had an
object in misleading him ; because he was
thereby enabled to bag more partridge
himself. He had no such motive, however,
because on the present occasion he was
shooting for AYhitmore, and not for himself;
so that his interest should be that
Whitmore were successful. But his gratification
at Whit more' s incapacity arose
altogether from his inherent desire to see
ill-success attend everybody. He felt a
pleasure in that thought, and believed that
somehow or other, it must be for his own
advantage.

We shall now leave the brace of villains
to pursue their sport ; and shall return to
Mooloch House, to see how matters are
progressing there.

The ladies walked out into the flower
garden shortly afterWhitm ore's departure;
and strolled about, looking at the flowers
and admiring their various colours and
perfumes. They chatted, too, about other
matters of interest, such as balls, dresses,
and weddings.

But after a little time, Mrs. Credan
desired her daughter to return to the house,
for the purpose of giving certain directions
to the servants about dinner, and she and
Fanny Moore walked together alone, when
she commenced as follows : —

What an agreeable man is Mr. Whit-more
— don't you think so, Fanny? "

Really, I hardly think so, aunt."

'' Oh, but he is though," said Mrs.
Credan ; '' and he has such a magnificent
property too. To be sure, they talk of his
grandfather, or father, or somebody being
a plumber, or stoker, or something of that
sort — I forget what it is ; but what does
that matter, in these times, my dear ? We
must overlook many things in order to
establish ourselves in the world. Family,
of course, is a great deal; but we have
that ; and then by combining both, everything
desirable might be accomplished."

Combining both what ? '' asked
Fanny.

"Why, my dear," replied Mrs. Credan,
*' family, and — and — oh ! well — property
and family."

And haven't ^(;e both ? "

Yes, we have ; but I mean when our
family is combined with Mr. Whitmore's
property, what a nice thing it would be."

But is it not quite as nice and much
more natural to have our own family and
our own property combined ? "

You don't seem to comprehend me, my
dear ; I mean an alliance between our
family and Mr. Whitmore."

Oh, I thought you meant, aunt, an
alliance between our family and Mr. Whit-more's
property."

'' Now, my dear, what I mean is this,
that Mr. Whitmore is very anxious to get
married into our family ; and that it would
be very desirable to meet his views in that
respect. That is what I mean."

*' Oh, indeed, is that it, aunt ? Which
of my cousins is he enamoured of? "

Fanny could with difficulty repress the
laughter which came bubbling to her lips
at her own equivocation.

Mrs. Credan seemed a little put out, but
she rallied immediately, and said, —

My dear, you cannot be unaware that
you are the object of Mr. Whitmore's
devotion."

Here Fanny burst out into a fit of uncontrollable
laughter, her aunt looking agape,
and wondering at the insensibility by which
her niece appeared to be affected. Fanny,
at length recovering from her merry fit,
and wiping away from her eyes the tears it
had produced, said, with a comic expression
of countenance, —

*' Pardon me, my dear aunt, but I really
feel so affected by the devotion, as you call
it, of this gay and gentle Lothario, that I
scarcely know whether to laugh or cry ; I
think, indeed, I have been doing both."

'well, my dear," said Mrs. Credan, " I
must only say that you are not aware of
the importance of this matter, otherwise
you would not treat it so lightly. I have
been speaking to your mother about it, and
she agrees with me as to the advantages of
such an alliance. What objection can you
have to Mr. Whitmore, my dear ? "

My dear aunt," replied Fanny, " do
now bear with me when I sav that I could

no more bring myself to marry the man
you speak of than I could to do any other
impossible thing — than to drown myself, for
instance. But, perhaps, my cousin may
appreciate the devotion of this gentleman."


She again felt an inclination to laugh,
but she checked herself, and observed, —

At any rate, my dear aunt, 'tis quite
a waste of time and of words to be talking
to me about him."

Mrs. Credan saw now that it was useless
to press the matter further ; but she was
nevertheless desirous to ascertain how far,
if at all, Fanny's affections were already
occupied ; and if Herbert Granville where
the person to whom she was attached ; of
which, indeed, she could entertain but little
doubt. She therefore placed her hand on
Fanny's shoulder, and looking into her eyes,
with an earnest and inquiring gaze, said, —

Tell me, Fanny, do you love Herbert
Granville?"

I do, aunt," was the unhesitating
reply.

Mrs. Credan removed her hand from
Fanny's shoulder, and looked down upon
the ground, with the forefinger of her

right hand pressed against her under lip.
After a pause of some seconds, she raised
her eyes again and looking into the skj,
said, as if communing with herself, so low
and muffled were her accents, —

Love ! sweet impulse of the heart !
how endearing is thy mien ! how bright and
glowing is thy aspect ! how sweet and
thrilling is the music of thy voice ! how
fondly do thy dulcet accents fall upon our
ears ! and when the glowing emotions which
thy presence brings have, in the current of
time, faded into twilight calmness, how
soft, how serene, and jet how thrilling the
sensations thou brings ! Love, farewell —
but no ; rest here in this bosom ; and be
to me a solace, a comforter, a light to guide
my way amid the troubled scenes of this
vale of sorrow, a hope, a consolation, a
blessing."

She paused, and turning to her niece,
she took her arm, and they walked on in
silence together.

After some moments thus spent, Mrs.
Credan said, —

Fanny, my dear child, if you love
Herbert Granville, and if you know that
he loves you, let no one put you asunder.

For me, all ! I should be the last in this
world to tamper with the sacred feelings of
the heart. It is true, we ought ever to
be cautious in yielding our affections to
men, lest the object might be unworthy.
That would be a fatal step, a step involving
the loss of our dearest happiness here ; but
when mutual worthiness, and mutual
honour ratify the exchange of affections,
then indeed we act wisely, and our bliss is
secure. Of Herbert Granville I entertain,
and have always entertained, though, may
God pardon me, I have spoken sometimes
falsely of him in the weakness and folly of
the moment, but, in my secret heart I
have ever entertained of him the highest
opinion, for his noble character, and his
splendid genius. — Come, my dear, let us go
in; they will miss us."

END OF VOL. ir.

Gilbert AND ElYINGTON, LIMITED, ST. JOHN'S Square, E.C.

OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS

v3 ^

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/granvillesirisht03talb

BY

THE Hon. THOMAS TALBOT.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

EonUmt :
SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston,

CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET.

1882.
[sall rights reserved

ST. John's square.

V.5

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER XVII.

Page

An Evening Walk and a Declaration of Love 1

CHAPTER Xvii

Denny Mullins, the Piper, pays a Visit to
THE Glazement — Xelly Corcoran and Himself
hold high Discourse 30

CHAPTER XIX.

The Art of Roguery — Piety assists tt . .68

CHAPTER XX.

The Captain has his Eye to Windward — The

Plot discovered 103

CHAPTER XXI.

Herbert Granville prepares to join his Uncle
IN Canada — Various Councils held, and
various Opinions offered in consequence 129

CHAPTER XXII.

Pace

General Doherty is put in Motion — A Plan

OF Attack in two Divisions . . .153

CHAPTER XXIII.

The Attack — Its Consequences . . . .184

CHAPTER Xxii.

An Unexpected Arrival— Great Rejoicing at

Ash Grove House 208

CHAPTER Xxi.
Conclusion 233

CHAPTER XVII.

AX EVEXIJ^G WALK And A Declaration OF
LOVE.

After dinner, on the day above mentioned,
Fanny called her brother aside in the
drawing-room, and intimated that she h^.d
something of importance to communicate to
him. It is scarcely necessary for ns to apprise
the reader that Joe Whitmore formed
one of the dinner party on this occasion. We
have already hinted that he had arranged to
spend a week at Mooloch House, under pretence
of enjoying the sport of shooting in its
vicinity ; and we have now to add that his
arrangement in this respect was made by
express invitation from Mrs. Credan in
furtherance of her views with reference to t' e
alliance between himself and her niece, on

VOL. III. B

^vliic b she had so much set her heart. That
on this point, however, she had been undeceived
by the decisive declaration of Fanny
during the walk in the garden, we have
already seen ; and yet, it must be owned that
a lingering hope still remained with her that,
notwithstanding such declaration, things
might be brought about in conformity with
her wishes by the accidents of time and the
force of circumstances. She was one of those
who never give up any design they have
formed until every inch of ground is cut from
under their feet, and no possible chance remains
on which to build a hope. She thought
that, after all, Fanny might change her
opinions, or that she did not perhaps exactly
know her own mind. She loved, it may be,
or she fancied she loved Herbert ; but did
Herbert love her ? or did he love her to such
a degree as to sacrifice his pride, or his prospects,
if he had any, in order to make her
his own ? It was hard to decide with regard
to these matters : and so long as a clear
decision could not be arrived at on these
points, it was well not to give up any hope
she had of gaining the wished-for end. So
Mrs. Credan reasoned; and she was not a
woman to surrender her views, as long as she

had any ground at all on which to raise a
superstructure of reasoning, no matter how
shifting and untenable that ground appeared
to be. Joe Whitmore, therefore, occupied a
firm footing still in her mind ; and at dinner
she neglected nothing that was calculated to
convey this idea to all present. She expressed
herself as delighted with his success
on the hills and at the coverts, and declared
she was so happy that he enjoyed himself;
and hoped that during the week he intended
to remain he should be equally successful and
equally well pleased with the sport. She was
exceedingly attentive to all his requirements,
and was sincerely interested in his appetite,
trusting that his exertions had not over-fatigued
him, and thereby diminished his
desire for food. Nothing indeed could be
more gracious than the anxiety she manifested
for his health and comfort.

And so Joe felt, and indeed expressed
himself, very, very happy. But after dinner,
as we have said, Fanny took her brother
aside in the drawing-room, to intimate to him
that she had something of importance to
communicate to him. They both left the
drawing-room together, and stepping out
upon the terrace, they walked along for
B 2

some minutes in silence. At length Fanny
said, —

Harry, what I wished to tell you is, that
Whitmore is invited to stay here for a week
at least he has accepted the general invitation
given to him by Aunt Credan, and has
declared his intention to remain a week for
the purpose of shooting. I cannot, therefore,
stay here longer than to-day ; tomorrow I
shall return home. You know how detestable
that man is to me ; and you know also how
Aunt Credan has been planning about him,
with the idea that I should get married to
him. You see then, Harry, how impossible
it is for me to content myself here. Of
course, I don't desire to deprive you of your
shooting ; but perhaps you might, without
inconvenience to you in that way, accompany
me a part of the way home at an early hour
tomorrow morning. If I were a mile or
so away from this place I shouldn't feel lonely
for the remainder of the way home.",«

'' Yes, I see," answered Harry; " that will
suit admirably. AYould you wish to know
how I feel ? I shall tell you. Just like a
fellow convicted of high treason, and sent to
prison where he has to merci with thieves and
cut-throats. You understand me. Since I

saw that brute, "Whitmore, at the covert
to-day I have made up my mind to decamp
from here. And that is a pity, for I had
intended to have two or three days' enjoyable
sport about here with my cousin ; but that confounded
fellow has spoiled my contemplated
enjoyment. I don't wonder that you feel
dissatisfied to remain under the same roof
with him; for I, who ought to be better able
to endure anything in the shape of impudent
vulgarism and presumptuous ignorance, feel
myself quite inadequate to the endurance of
this fellow's bestial manners. So I shall
have our horse and gig ordered out at five
o'clock tomorrow morning; and we shall
be ready to start immediately after that.
Besides, i' faith, I feel otherwise a longing to
get back, short as it is since I left."

Here he looked with a twinkling eye into
his sister's face, and added, 'absence makes
the heart grow fonder."

Fanny smiled, and lifted her hand, as if to
slap him on the cheek, but then, dropping it
immediately and resting it on his breast,
where it played with his vest buttons, she
said, " I am so glad, dear brother, that you
like Julia. I am so fond of her. She is such
a nice lovable creature. Don't you think

that she is a real Granville — I mean in feature
as well as in manner. I heard my cousins
say that she rather resembled the Browns,
her mother's family."

1 think," replied Harry, *' that she partakes
of the leading characteristics of both.
She has the noble bearing and graceful
manners of the Granville, with something of
the complexion and features of the Browns.
But why do you say you are glad I like her ?
Like her, Fanny ? I idolize her. She occupies
every corner and crevice of my heart. She
is my idol, my angel, my heaven ! ' '

Oh, stop ! " interrupted Fanny, *' for
goodness' sake, do stop, or I shall imagine
that you are daft, as the Scotch say. I know
you like her ; and I am so glad of it. But,
Harry dear, have you asked her to marry
you?"

Harry hesitated, and coloured a little, as
if something wrong or dishonourable had
occurred to his mind. But it was not so.
Harry Moore was one of the most upright
and honourable young men that ever existed.
An ignoble thought never stained his mind.
He was incapable of contemplating anything
that was tinged with shame or dishonour ;
and yet, strange as it might appear, he

manifested those symptoms which are usually
attributed to guilt and shame, as soon as his
sister referred to that which struck him as a
point of honour. He hesitated and coloured.

How often do we find popular ideas and
maxims destitute of any foundation in truth
or in nature. So far from the hesitation and
change of colour exhibited by Harry when
the question about marriage was put to him
by his sister being an indication of any
wrong he either did or contemplated to doit
was the strongest manifestation of the
extreme purity of his mind, and of the unsullied
honour by which he was swayed. A
low, unprincipled, and hardened ruffian would
have never shown any feeling on such a
question as that put to Harry by his sister,
or indeed, on any question involving delicacy
of feeling or moral principle. It was only
the warm-hearted, high-souled, pure-minded
Harry Moore, that could feel his blood agitated
at the mere fancy of anything low,
base, or in the slightest degree discreditable.
And yet, looking at the matter calmly, as
Harry himself did look at it, after a few
seconds, there was nothing in the question
that ought to disturb the finest sensibility,
the most refined sense of honour.

Did I ask her to marry me ?" lie repeated,
after a few seconds ; " wliy, no, Fanny ; I
did not think it at all necessary to do sounder
all the circumstances. In the first
place, you know, the family are in mourning
since the death of old Mr. Granville ; and to
talk of marriage with Julia, in the presence
of such an event, would not, it strikes me,
be exactly proper or delicate. Besides that,
it would look on my part as if I were endeavouring
to take advantage of her misfortunes
with the view of promoting my own happiness.
1 could not think of winning her love
through her sorrows. I must have it wholly
or not at all, through the medium of her free
and unembarrassed will, and in the best sunshine
of her fortunes. I believe she loves
me, and that she does so from no motive on
earth other than the voluntary impulse of her
pure and noble heart ; but while I believe
this, I feel, and have felt ever since I thought
she loved me, the more solicitous to guard
my conduct against any act or expression
that might possibly be calculated to wound
her tenderest susceptibility. As I have told
you, I love her with all my heart and
soul ; and there is nothing in this world that
could satisfy my heart and mind but to be

united in marriage with her, yet I have refrained
from any allusion to that subject
on the sole ground of delicacy and honour.
I feared she might not like it in the circumstances
surrounding her ; and I feared she
might attribute it to a want of consideration,
on my part, for her peculiar situation. I may
have been wrong in all that ; perhaps I have
been ; bat I am now explaining to you the
motives which have ruled my conduct."

*' I understand you," observed Fanny;
*' but, still, I don't think that you did right ;
for do you know, Harry, if I were in her
place, I think I would rather be asked. It
is so nice, you know, to hear the person you
love telling you everything that he thought.
Stop now, Harry ; don't tease me : — ah, do
stop, now."

Harry had taken her by the shoulder, and
was shaking her, and tapping her on the
cheek with one hand, while his eyes were
twinkling with fun. He understood that her
mind was wandering to the presence of
another, while seeming to respond to the
observations which he had addressed to her.
He then said, '' Never mind, dear sis., we
shall be off early in the morning, and leave
dear Aunt Credan to the luxury of the brilliant

Joe Whitmore's conversation. By Jove,
I was amused at dinner with our cousin's
exquisite ridicule of Mm. How she did sting
him with her arrows ; but the fellow scarcely
seemed conscious of the ridicule she showered
upon him. Come ; let us go in : they may
miss us — at least aunt will ; and so will the
gallant amoroso of my sweet sister."

He laughed, and stepped on before Fanny,
who followed him at a little distance. When
they entered the drawing-room, the younger
Miss Credan was seated at the piano ; and
Whitmore standing by her side, watching
her performance, and turning over her music.
The moment the latter saw Fanny enter, he
abruptly left the piano, and walked across
the room to meet her.

'' Miss Moore, I was wishing to have you
come in," he said, with a vulgar affectation
of flattery, " for your touch on the piano
exceeds anything I know."

*' I feel quite complimented, I assure you,"
was the reply, while the least perceptible curl
rose upon the corner of her mouth ; and she
passed on towards her Uncle Credan.

Mr. Credan was a fine jolly man, fond of
his claret and his joke; and who cared for
little else than the enjoyment of the passing

hour. He followed the fox-hounds, always
keeping along the roads and open fields, and
soothing his hunter with voice and touch
whenever he came to a small hedge over
which he wished him to jump gently. He
shouldered his double-barrel, too, in the
shooting season, and tumbled over partridge,
and plover, and woodcock with as ready an
eye, and as unerring aim as in the days ere
he won the hand, if not the heart, of his dear
Fanny. In short, he was a good-natured,
kind, cheerful, and ease-loving man, who took
the world at the sunny side, and shut his
eyes to the clouds and the mists. He liked
Fanny Moore very much, almost as much as
his own daughters ; for her name being
Fanny, which was also his wife's name, he
could not but feel a very remarkable leaning
towards her. This, at least, was his own
account of his own feelings ; and no one can
doubt that he knew best what it was that
afforded him comfort and satisfaction.

Ha, ha ! you little loiterer," he exclaimed,
as she approached him, '' where have
you been all this time?" Your most estimable
gallant, Wliitmore, has been like a
plover in distress during your absence, rolling
himself from one spot to another and

striving to slmn observation. Why are you
so heartless as to permit discomfort to darken
over this gizzard. He is a tender click — eh ?
Ha, ha, ha ! "

'' Why do you say he is a gallant of mine,
uncle ?" asked Fanny, looking into his face,
with a smile, compounded of drollery and
derision ; " I didn't think that you would
treat your niece to such a high compliment
as to insinuate that she was the object of
admiration to so exquisite and immaculate a
Lothario as the proprietor of Castle Whit-more."


*' Ha, ha, ha ! " exclaimed the uncle, *' you
are a funny little rogue ! you are a funny
little rogue ! By the piper of Moses, you
always jut me in mind of my own Fanny,
your aunt ; when I was tracking her through
the moors — ha, ha, ha ! eh ? — through the
Tailors ? Well, when I was pursuing her, gun
in hand, and trying to get her within range,
I met with many disappointments. She was
very wary — sensitive to the lightest tread;
and so before I came within the required
distance she was up and off. She led me
many a weary tramp before I winged her —
ha, ha, ha ! Well, I took her at the rise, at
last ; and brought her down. And a good

day's sport it was. By the piper of Moses,
she has made my days cheerful and happy.
But, yo'j see, she is a j^i'actical woman,
Fanny ; and knows the difference between an
oyster-shell and a plum-pudding. She eschewed
poetry ; she cared nothing for painted
fribbles — not that I dislike poetry either —
that is, I am fond of it when it is twisted
into the shape of a good merry song —

Tally-ho ! tally-ho ! isle a vugga, wish a youn !
We'll rouse up reynard in the morning.

That's what I call poetry, Fanny. There is
life and merriment in it ; and poetry is no
poetry without that. Why, those people over
there think I am mad ; see how Whitmore
gapes at me. Ha, ha, ha I what a genius he
is, to be sure ! Come over to the piano,
now : I want you to give me Tommy Moore's
song; what do you call it? it is the air of
Reynard,' — oh, ay — ' On Lough JSTeagh's
Banks.' "

Fanny was greatly amused with her uncle's
rambling observations ; and her spirits began
to play in gay and sprightly ripples. In
answer to his request she replied that she
would be most happy to play him the song
he desired, but requested, at the same time,

that he would do tier the favour of standing
by her side, and turning over her music.
She said this in order to draw his attention
to Whitmore's position, who was then performing
a similar office for Miss Credan.

By the piper of Moses, Fanny, I shall
not deprive your Lothario, as you call him,
of that extreme felicity. When I was like
him, I would shoot the fellow who interfered
with my privilege in that way. At the twelve
paces, though— at the twelve paces. 'No, I
never could take a man at a disadvantage.
We should stand on equal ground. Then let
fortune rule the day. Come, then, I shall be
your Lothario, as you like it ; though I feel
for your love-sick swain — ha, ha, ha ! Come
along."

Miss Credan had just concluded a lively
and rattling air; and, as she paused to
receive the incoherent compliments of Whit-more,
her father requested her to make way
for Miss Moore.

Fanny took her seat, ran her fingers along
the keys, and looking up to her uncle, said,
*' Now, uncle, commence."

Allow me. Miss Moore," interposed Whit-more,
arranging the music in the stand ; *' I
shall be so happy to stand by your side."

"I feel complimented, very much indeed'*
replied Fanny, smiling, with the slight curl
on lier lip : " but you will oblige me by
standing aside — not by my side''

Whitmore coloured, and laughed : and then
stepping away, made room for Mr. Credan,
who whispered in her ear, *' By the piper of
Moses, you have stunned him."

Fanny played the air in accompaniment
with the song of " Lough Neagh's Banks," to
which her uncle did the most ample justice :
but he always took care to conclude each
stanza with —

Tally-ho I tally-ho ! wish a vugga, wish a youn
We'll rouse up reynard in the morning.

Shortly after the conclusion of the song
the party retired for the night. Joe Whit-more,
after reaching his room, threw himself
into an armchair, and devoted at least an
hour to a review of the different scenes which
had occurred in the drawing-room, and in
which he felt his interest concerned. The
prevailing feeling of his breast, while thus
occupied, was disappointment, and its attendant
vexation. He looked at each scene
again and again, and grew more and more
dissatisfied and angry as he performed the

operation. The conclusion of his review
was a fixed determination to be revenged in
some way or other, but he was unable to
determine the mode or manner of the accomplishment
of his resolution. Troubled with
this uncertainty he undressed and threw
himself into bed, where he slept a restless
sleep, dreaming of dark glens, and silent
nooks, and lightning, and thunder, and
screaming women, and wild beasts, until
morning.

Early next morning Harry Moore was
astir. He looked into the stables, ordered
his horse to be put to, and, returning to the
parlour, found his sister and cousins arranging
the materials for an early breakfast.
His cousin, Harry Credan, soon joined them,
and the four young people sat down to a
most cheerful and appetizing meal. Buttered
rolls, newly-laid eggs, fried ham, cold mutton,
tea, coffee, and rich cream, with oaten
cakes, and a decanter of whisky on a side-table,
constituted the chief elements of this

meal.

Fanny and her brother had on the preceding
night apprised Mr. and Mrs. Credan of
their intention to return home early the next
morning; and although Mrs. Credan expressed

her astonishment and disappointment in words
and looks fully equal to the intensity with,
which those feelings operated upon her ; and
although Mr. Credan protested by the piper
of Moses that he wouldn't wish it — that is,
their going away — for the best day's sport
he had ever had, or expected to have hereafter,
yet the thing was arranged, and all
objections and regrets were obliged to succumb
before the decree of fate, and Mr. and
Mrs. Credan therefore wished their niece and
nephew a warm-hearted adieu ere they had
retired to rest. But the breakfast had been
scarcely commenced when Mr. Credan was
heard thundering along the hall, ordering the
servants hither and thither, and desiring to
be informed of the prognostic of the weather.
He fumbled into the parlour, and had scarcely
seated himself at the table, when Mrs. Credan
glided softly in, and the whole family, with
the exception of the younger children, were
thus assembled at breakfast between the
hours of five and six o'clock on that bright
September morning.

In about half an hour after this Harry
Moore and his sister were rolling along on
the broad smooth road leading to Ballydine,
amid the bright-tinted scenery that spread

VOL. III.

itself out on cither hand in long diversified
sweeps, over which the early sunbeams played
and twinkled like beaded diamonds on a lady's
breast. The landscape, as they drove along,
was here and there enlivened by the laugh
and song of the peasantry as they moved
about near their homesteads, and drove the
cattle afield, or whistled to their teams in
soft and winding melody, and eyed the even
sod rolling from the ploughshare.

It was a sweet and lovely morning, and
Fanny and her brother drank in all its delicious
influence, for their hearts were light,
and their minds free from disturbing cares.
They made brief observations now and then
upon the scenes around them, and then fell
into silence, during which each luxuriated in
the bright field of imagination, and indulged
in that gentle and delightful occupation of
erecting Ghdteanx d^Usjoagne^ or castles in
the air.

In less than two hours they were passing
up the avenue to Brookfield Hall, where they
were welcomed with no less astonishment by
their father and mother for their unexpected
arrival than they had been parted with by
their uncle, and aunt, and cousins, for their
unexpected departure. Such may be regarded,

however, as a miniature of life. We
come, and we go, when it is least expected ;
and regret and surprise are our constant
companions through this journey here below.
On the afternoon of this day Harry Moore
strolled into the lawn, and along the grounds
of Brookfield Hall, meditating on the events
connected with his visit to Mooloch House,
and speculating in a sort of reverie on coming
years. His imaginings were vague and indefinite,
and if they fell into any shape at all
of a determinate character, it was when the
idea of his becoming, at some time or other,
the owner of the lands on which he was
treading, and of a lovely woTnan whom he
could call his wife walking by his side, stood
out in relief amid the mental chaos. That
wife too assumed in his thoughts the figure
and complexion of his beloved Julia. This
current of thought was but the natural result
of the conversation which he and his sister
had held on the terrace at Mooloch House on
the evening before, when Fanny asked him if
he had informed Julia of his feelings towards
her, and ascertained hers in return. The
impulse that had thus been given to his mind
continued to vibrate, and he determined, before
the sun that was now shining down
c 2

upon him lead withdrawn the light from hill
and plain, to breathe into her ear the message
of his love, and to hear from her own
sweet lips the reply to that message. He
"walked on until he reached one of the outer
gates of the demesne, and then passed out
into the public road. The evening was calm
and beautiful, and he felt as though the air
was whispering to his heart sweet words of
peace and hope. He turned off in the direction
of Bally dine, and as he approached the
village he quickened his steps, as if to shut
out from his own mind the thoughts that
were crowding upon it, and to economize the
joys that were fluttering around his heart.
He passed by the Cross, and up the Ash Grove
road, until he came to the gates opening
upon the avenue and lawn of Ash Grove
House. He strolled quietly up the avenue,
pausing here and there to hearken to the
melody of the thrush and blackbird from the
surrounding arbours, or to mark the gambols
of the rabbits on the small green island that
rose amid the placid waters of the little lake
on the margin of the lawn. He had scarcely
reached the end of the avenue, where it
branched into the lawn immediately in front
of the house, when he saw Julia passing from

the garden-gate, and directing lier steps
down the lawn, as if to meet some woman
who appeared to be approaching the house
from the direction of the mountain road.
Harry at once cried out her name, when she
stopped suddenly as if checked by a string,
and then looking round she saw him, and
stepped on quickly to meet him. Her face
was glowing with pleasure, and her movement
was light and elastic as a fawn's.

After they had conversed for a few minutes
she walked away towards the front of the
house, met the woman whom we have mentioned,
talked with her a few seconds, and
then passed into the house. After a delay
of about five minutes she returned, with an
addition of a short light cloak to her dress,
and bearing a parasol in her hand, and, joining
Harry, they both passed round by the
courtyard at the rear of the house, and out
into the glade that lay stretched before them
towards the south-east.

As they walked in cheerful mood along
Harry began to relate to her all that had
passed — at least all that he thought would
interest her — while on his recent visit to
Mooloch. He gave a full and humorous
description of Joe "Whitmore, his shooting

exploits, and his love passages with the
ladies, especially with his sister Fanny.

Julia was greatly amused with the recital,
and observed, —

*' What a queer sort of person Whitmore
is, especially when he talks about his own
affairs, and that is pretty often ; for he seems
never to comprehend anything but as it bears
upon himself and his concerns. At least I
have never heard him converse upon any
topic in which he was not the chief subject
himself. I could never endure him, and I
am sure jour sister is much of my way of
feeling in that respect."

*' Oh, as for Fanny," observed Harry,
she is like a lamb in a storm when he is in
her presence ; she cannot stand him at all.
Besides, he is making desperate efforts to
win her confidence ; and this annoys her
beyond anything. How he hates Herbert !
He believes that if it hadn't been for Herbert
the fates would be propitious, and no
obstruction could arise in the way of his
happiness. But in that he is mistaken, too ;
for I believe there is nothing on earth would
induce Fanny to countenance him ; for her
dislike of him is rooted beyond any possibility
of its removal"

I have fancied, for a long time," interrupted
Julia, '' that he means some mischief
to Herbert. I don't know how it is,
but I cannot divest my mind of this impression.
He is a bad man, Mr. Moore ; and I
believe him capable of almost any bad act.
He is always slandering people, and uttering
falsehoods against them — even against those
with whom he affects friendship. What
worse sign of any person could there be than
that ? I have it from Herbert, that he has
uttered the foulest calumnies against him.
Herbert has heard this from persons who
would not tell an untruth about it. It is
shocking, is it not ? "

''No one minds what he says," answered
Harry; ''he is too contemptible for serious
notice. Anything he says about Herbert or
anybody else hasn't the weight of a feather.
All his infamous slanders will ultimately
redound upon himself."

He paused, while Julia stepped aside a
little, and bending, plucked a small flower
from a bush that grew by a thorn hedge in
the field. She looked at it ; inhaled its
fragrance ; and then presented it to Harry,
observing, " What a late blossom 1 and how
sweetly fragrant ! "

Harry took it, and after smelling it,
placed it in the breast of this coat, saying,
*' I shall preserve it as a remembrance of
this evening's walk. May it be to me a
pleasant reminder of the band that plucked
it ! "

Julia started a little, and then smiled, a
slight crimson tinge passing over her cheeks
and forehead the meantime.

He continued, '' Do you think it strange.
Miss Granville, that I should express myself
so''

'^Ho^, Mr. Moore?"

That I wish to retain this flower as a
gift, the value of which to me consists entirely
in the fact that it was plucked by you, and
given to nne hy you ? "

Julia smiled faintly, and a slight tremor
passed over her frame. She made no reply,
but walked on slowly, her eyes cast down
upon the ground. He walked on in silence
by her side for a few minutes ; and then
taking her hand in his, he stopped, and said,
in a low voice, '' Julia — pardon me if I offend
you by speaking your name so freely — I love

you."

They both remained stationary and silent
for some seconds; after which she bent

forward and leant her head upon Ms shoulder.
He passed his arm around her waist, and
pressed her to his bosom.

He then whispered, " You love me,
dearest? "

She made no reply, but pressed her hands
upon her eyes, which were moist with tears.

Are you displeased with me, Julia ? " he
asked.

She then answered, ''I am happy, dear
Harry."

He pressed her to his heart, and impressed
a kiss upon her lips. They then walked on
in silence for several minutes, her arm folded
within his. At length, he said, smiling, and
looking into her eyes, '' Julia, I am happy,
too. How often have I longed for this hour !
for the hour when I should tell you all that
I felt, and all that I hoped. But I hesitated ;
and I did so for reasons which you can,
perhaps, appreciate now ; not the least of
which was — ay, the chief of which was, that
I feared to renew within your bosom the
sorrows which fell upon you and your family
by the death of your dear father, and the
calamities which accompanied that sad event.
But, I trust that I shall be able, in some
degree, at least, to make up for that loss to

sou, by my* devotion to your interests and to
your happiness, which from this hour I
promise. Your family, too, shall share my
warmest affections ; their welfare will be my
welfare ; their happiness will be my happiness.
Herbert, as you are aware, has been
always my companion and my friend ; I have
loved him as a brother ; and from the moment
that he left college at the death of your father,
I felt as if the blow which fell upon him then,
had reached the inmost recesses of my own
soul. It is true that even then my heart
was turned to you ; yes, even then I loved
you ; and though I never breathed my love
for you to him, or to any one, except, perhaps,
to my sister, yet I felt that my destiny was
entwined with yours and with that of your
family. I am happy now ; and from this
hour forward, I shall strive to make myself
worthy of your love, and worthy of the
blessing which God has vouchsafed me in
securing me that love."

While he thus spoke, his voice was tremulous
with emotion; and at the conclusion
he bent his head towards hers, and pressed
his lips upon her forehead. She lifted her
eyes, which had hitherto rested upon the
ground, and looked tenderly into his face.

Her cheeks were moist from the tears which
had trickled upon them during Harry's recital
of his love, and of the interest he had so long
felt in her brother's and family's fortunes.
She wiped the tears from her cheeks, and
then, leaning forward, she kissed him. As
she did so, she said, in soft, tremulous accents,
'' Dear, dear Harry ! I do indeed love you ! "
As they walked on she said, *' I hope you
will not think it strange that I should have so
readily acknowledged the feelings of my heart
towards you. I have long felt, as you yourself
say, my soul's affections turned to you. I
wished to conceal my feelings from everybody,
for I thought it would be wrong in me to
indulge hopes which I had no just cause to
entertain, and which, in time, must perish,
leaving me more desolate than before. But
I found that I could not dispel them from
my mind ; they still haunted me as though
they were a part of my existence ; and I sometimes
thought that to destroy them would
be to put an end to my life. I say, I wished
to conceal all this ; but there was one from
whom it was impossible for me to disguise
my heart. It was Herbert. He seemed to
know every thought of ni}^ mind, every throb
of my soul. Whether it was that his love

for your sister lead turned his thoughts upon
your family and upon everything that concerned
them, or that a sympathy with me
had given him an insight into my heart, I do
not know; but he understood my feelings,
and knew, so he told me, that they were
centred upon you. I confessed the truth.
And do you know what, Harry ? " — she lifted
up her face to his, with a gentle, confiding
smile, in which joy and happiness were
mixed — " from that time he appeared to me
to feel a deeper, a warmer friendship for you
than ever. And I felt so proud of it ! I
had feared, at first, that if I told him how I
loved you, he would have got angry with me ;
but when he knew all, when he heard all, sofar
was he from showing any feeling of
displeasure, that he looked brighter and
happier than ever."

''My noble-minded Herbert!" exclaimed
Harry ; " how true you have ever been to
your noble nature ! Julia, I know Herbert
well; none is better acquainted with the
inmost thoughts of his soul; and this I
undertake to say, that there lives not a man
whose thoughts are purer, whose heart is
gentler and kinder, and whose mind is more
exalted and generous than his. He is the

Yer J essence of truth, and the soul of honour ;
and if the occasion arose tomorrow, I believe
in my soul that Herbert would interpose his
life between me and death. Such is my
opinion of him, founded upon an experience
of years of college life ; and it is there, Julia,
that the character is developed, as well as
understood. Well, he would do that ; he
would risk his life to save mine. Julia,
would I be worthy of the name of man if I
did not feel myself capable of performing the
same office for him r No. Let what may
befall, Herbert and I shall walk hand in hand
along the vale of life, loving and cherishing
each other''

Thus conversing on topics immediately
connected with their own destinies, and reverting
again and again to their early intimacy,
and the first hours when they felt the
spark of mutual affection lighting up their
breasts, they passed round the wooded glade,
and returned to Ash Grove by the fields
immediately in the rear of the garden, where
the summer-house overlooked the scene.
They then passed into the lawn, and entered
the house.

CHAPTER XVIII.

DENNY Mullions, THE PIPER, PATS A VISIT TO
THE Amazement — NELLY CORCORAN AND Himself
HOLD HIGH DISCOURSE.

It was a dull, heavy day, in the early autumn ;
the sun lay concealed within a dusky curtain
of cloud and mist ; and the hills looked dark
and gloomy amid the vapours that lay like a
shroud around them. Denny Mullins smoked
his pipe in the chimney-corner of his own
little cabin, while the air was thick and
drowsy outside, and the old woman, his
mother, was clearing away the debris of the
dinner of potatoes, and pork, and cabbage, of
which herself and Denny had just partaken.
Denny smoked on, and watched with dreamy
indifference the vapour as it passed from his
mouth and moved in lazy curls up the chimney.
His mind was occupied with thoughts
of jigs, and reels, and plantes, and by necessary

concatenation, with cheering and shouting,
and high merriment. Then would follow
another train of thought in close connexion
with all this — courtship, and match-making,
and weddings — until he began to feel as if he
were actually engaged in forwarding some
great event on which the happiness of some
love-entangled pair was dependent. Then
he would take the pipe from his mouth, puff
the vapour slowly from his lips, with his eyes
half closed ; and then giving way to the ideas
that crowded upon his brain, exclaim, with a
suppressed voice and a slow deliberate movement
of the head, which assisted the energy
of the expression, '' By the bogs of Moonduv,
they are what you might call a likely, clever
couple. — A loving' couple. They'll be yoked
yet as firm as Father Marshall can fasten 'em.
Believe me ; that's the v\^ay 'twill be, or I'm
not Denny Mullins."

He would then replace the pipe in his mouth,
and glide on in another stream of thought,
until at length he rose from the chimney-corner,
looked out at the door, and examined
the weather. '' I think," he said, addressing
the oiilcl woman, as he used to call his mother,
*' I'll take a ramble across the glen to see how
they are getting on over at the Glazement ;

the evening' '11 clear up, I'm thinking', and I mayas
well go and find out what's going on in
the village ; for the captain, 'tis like, will be
after coming out of it now."

Don't be late, then," said the old woman.
I'll go down as far as Moll Dreelin's, if the
evening' '11 turn up ; I want to get a loan of
knit-needles from her to finish thin stockings ;
I broke one o' my own, and the rest are all
wore out ; there's no working' wit 'em now.
I'll be back early, and get supper. So be
back before the night '11 be too dark."

Denny took his hat and stick ; and having
buttoned his big-coat close up to his chin, he
sallied out to visit his '' ould friend " and
'* ancient neighbour," the captain. He picked
his way down the ravine, the furze-crowned
hedge on either side shielding him from the
lite of the weather, as he said to himself ;
and crossing: the brawling stream — for it was
now very active from recent heavy rain — as it
jumped and tumbled along the bottom of the
glen, he turned his face upwards, and keeping
by the winding hedges, as they straggled zigzag
up the side of the hill, he soon reached
the comfortable and cosy cottage of the
captain. He lifted the latch and entered.
Nelly Corcoran welcomed him, and, lifting a

corner of her check apron, rubbed the seat of
a stool, and, placing this in the corner bv the
warm turf fire, told him to sit down. Little
Ninny Rice, Nelly's granddaughter, was also
delighted to see him ; but felt much dejected
when she found that he hadn't brought his
pipes. He took her upon his knees, however,
and whistled a jig for her, which he told her
was as good as if it came out o' the chanter.
He inquired for the captain ; but was
informed that he had gone down to the village
after his breakfast, and hadn't yet
returned. If he shouldn't be here soon, Nelly
said, she wouldn't expect him until near summertime,
as 'twas likely he 'ud call at Ash
Grove, and, maybe, at Brookfield Hall. Whenever
be went to the village in the morning,
'twas seldom he came home before night. So
Denny made his mind easy, and leaning ibis
back against the side wall of the chimneys
and widening out his legs so as to
receive the full benefit of the glowing fire, he
fell into high discourse with his ould neighbour
and acquaintance, Nelly Corcoran,
occasionally giving variety and zest to the
discourse by tossing Ninny on his knee and
whistling her a merry tune.

And how does the world use you at all,

VOL. 111. D

at all, jelly," asked Denny, looking over at
this old friend, wko sat on a boss (straw stool)
at the opposite side of the fire-place, patching
a pair of trousers. '' You look strong and
hearty, God bless you."

Oh, faix, there's no fear of me ; as long
as I have enough to ate and drink I'll never
complain; and I have that, thank's be to
God," was the reply of jelly.

•' Well, then, 'tis a long spell now since
you and I first danced ' Cover the Buckle ' in
Bill Daly's barn the time the dance used to
be there," observed Denny, rubbing his hands,
and throwing one leg over the other in the
excitement of the recollection ; then throwing
himself back into his former position, he went
on, '' Peg Duffy was a bouncing' girl at that
time. I was a spell at her house the other
day, and 'tis she looks well. In troth, you
might cut beef-steaks off her jaws, and she
'udn't miss 'em. God keep her so."

'' She was a bouncing' girl, sure enough,"
said Jelly, " but she hadn't look or grace
after marrying' that sJaal-a-velth (rollicker) of
a man she had. Ah, then, she might get the
best match in the parish if she had sense and
didn't take to dancing' and gallivantin' the
same as she did. 'Tisu't look or g-race ever

comes o' the like. What I say, ever and
always, Denny, is that any girl as goes
about to dances and the like, and carrying' on
wit this boy and that boy, and streelin' about
with 'em, here and there, day and night, can't
expect anything but shame and sorrow.
Nothing' else can come out of such coin's.
Let a girl respect herself, and keep herself to
herself, and mind her duty, and then God's
grace will be along wit her wherever she goes.
God help us, some of the girls that was going'
then, as well as now, hadn't much sense in
their heads, nor the fear o' God in their
hearts, if they had 'isn't like butterflies
they'd be going' — big show and little substance
shiny outside and shilly-shally inside. The
craters ! one would think there was nothing'
inside of 'em but a cricket, making' 'em run
about without rhyme or raison, not known'
what they were saying' or coin'. She have a
son that's no better than the father was, God
help him. They say that he is now at the
head of the Whitefeet, and that the war is
going' to be in the place before Christmas.

'' Allelu ! " she exclaimed, bar sting into
laughter, "what a party commander the
people '11 have when Paddy Larkin '11 be carrying'
his sword 'before 'em. And there's Jer
D 2

Grinnex too ; they say lie is going' to be another
commander. Allelu ! allelii ! Jer
Grinnex and Paddy Larkin ! They wanted
to make Ned Doolin and Bill Clearyy join 'em ;
but they have better sense. Did yon hear,
Denny, that its going' to be a match between
Ned DooHn and Peggy Cummins ? And I
hear, too, that Bill Clearyy and Judy Casey are
all in all. Faith then, 'either Ned Doolin or
Bill Clearyy might go farther and speed worse.
Believe me, Peggy Cummins wouldn't turn
her back on any girl in the parish in the
regard of been' a well-handed girl ; and as for
carakther aud conduct there could be no one
better. She is seen, but not heard ; that's
the way to say it. And there's Judy Casey,
.as party and as knowledgeable a girl as you'd
£nd in the three counties. And sure, she is
:a notable housekeeper ; and so is Peggy
Cummins too. Oh, in troth, Ned Doolin and
Bill Clearyy aren't blind when they're takin' to
Rich girls as them. There what you might
call girls ; fine, and clever, and sensible ;
*isn't all the same as the shkibs (flirts) that's
going', that don't know the difference 'et^'een
a tomtit and a turkey. But, Denny, did you
hear — and sure you did, for 'tis the round
o' the parish now — about Master Harry

Moore and Miss Julia Granville ? Ob, 'tis all
settled, they say. So 'tis a double match, you
see. There's Master Herbert Granville and
Miss Fanny Moore to be married for certain,
whatever time his property is to fall into his
hands. Some say 'tis his uncle the cornelia
America, is going' to get it for him ; and
some say 'tis LordFairborough, myself don't
know which is the likeliest. Howsoever, sea
or land can't separate them, for they're dying'
about one another. Ullalu ! I wonder what '11
that half llaha (fool), Joe Whitmore, do :
he's losing' his walk, they say, after Miss
Fanny. Yia ! well become of him, indeed
; the likes of him of an upstart 
(ungainly person) to be thinking'
of a rale lady, wit the red blood of the
Moores a running' in her veins. Sure 'twould
be the sin of the world to see a half-cracked
upstart, without a drop of rale blood in him
for where would he get it ? to see the likes
of him stretched alongside of Miss Fanny
Moore, wit her white skin, and her lovely
blood. Ululu ! God'etweenus and all harm,
that we'd ever live to see the day. Faith, and
in troth, they say, Denny, that Mrs. C redan is
train' every hook and hangers to have Joe
"Whitmore and Miss Fanny married. Therefor

you, now. Who'd drame o' that? Xo
less, Mrs. Credan; a}^ and will you believe
me? Mrs. Moore herself is train' the same
thing. Well, there it is for you. Whatever
way you'll turn up your eyes, Denny Mullins,
there it is for you. Not a word o' lie in it.
Sure the world '11 soon come to an ind
when such things is turning' out. But, no,
Yia ! no ; Miss Fanny would rather Master
Herbert's little toe than five hundred times
the bigness of Joe Whitmore. Joe Whitmore,
eh ? Area, don't tell me ; if I was a girl
tomorrow — my hand to 3'ou — I would no
more many Joe Whitmore than I'd drown
myself in the say (sea), for all that I haven't
a drop o' blood in my veins. And then to put
him, the likes of him, alongside of Master
Herbert ! Isn't that a party compartment ?
Master Herbert ! a man that I'd marry —
supposing' I had blood in my veins — that I'd
marry wit an inch of a candle, supposing' I
never ate a bit after. Yia ! Mrs. Credan
indeed ! We know all about it. If I was as
young to-day as I was when she was after one
that we know — ay, and a fine blooded gentleman
he was, and is to this day ; but he is
altered a bit since then. Well, he was dying'
about her, as well as she was dying' about

Mni ; but, the same as I was saving 'before,
notion' 'ud do her lout to be o-oin' about here
and there void every Tom, Dick, and Harry
of a gentleman that came across her, without
as much senses a ninny hammer in her head,
like; but shureshehad sense for all that, and
the blood, and everything ; but she hadn't
the right sense ; she hadn't the grace o' Grod
to keep her in the straight road. And she
was going' on gallivantin' void every one, and
all the time dying' about the one I know, till
in the long run she married a man she hadn't
love or liken' for, I may say ; but a good,
honest gentleman for all that, and one of her
own blood relations. Well, the man that was
dying' about her, and that she was dying' about
him, never married any one since. And the
love for him is in her heart yet, and always
will be. But what's the o'ood o' that ? Xo
good, but harm ; for she is contrary ever
since ; and she'd like every one to have a
touch o' the same sickness as herself. Yes,
she is so contrary, after what she done again
her own heart, that she'd fain make her own
niece, her sister's daughter, fall out in the
same way. So, Denny, there's no known'
what people '11 do, high and low, when they
once lose the grace o' God, and put up wit

pride, and foolishness, and courting', and
gallivantin, without sense or raison in their
coin's. Ah, then, 'twas she was the fine comely
girl, when she was Miss Fanny Credan ; 'tis
after her Miss Fanny Moore was called ; and
the beautiful skin and eyes she had ! But
Miss Fanny Moore won't go astray for anyone
; the grace o' God is joined to her handsome
face, and her lovely skin; and she'll
have Master Herbert in spite of 'em all."

Denny had assumed a new attitude after
Nelly had proceeded for a little time with
her narrative ; instead of remaining with his
back to the side wall of the chimney-place,
and his legs spread wide apart, he placed
his elbows on his knees, and rested his chin
and cheeks between his open palms, presenting,
in some measure, the appearance of a pair
of flat props supporting a ball. His two eyes,
which were half closed, peered out from
between his hands, and rested upon the narrator.
After she had come to a pause, he
said, without in the slightest way altering
his position, —

'' Nelly Corcoran! you opened my eyes;
you incensed me in things I know'd nothing'
of 'before. And you tell me that Mrs. Credan
is fill and erin' after Joe AYhitmore, to get

lira for lier niece, that is, for Miss Fanny

Moore. Hee-e-e ! liee-e-e ! Nelly Corcoran !

the longer we live the more we'll see ; and

the more we'll hear too. Well, did you ever

hear the like ? Mrs. Credan ! the woman that

ought to rise up and say that she'd never

draw rein or bridle 'till Miss Fanny Moore

was welded, like steel, to Master Herbert

Granville; becase why? becase they were

made for one another in love, and beauty,

and family; and becase again, they'd never

see a day's luck, either of 'em, if they'd

marry any one else but their own four bones

to one another. And what call would Joe

Whitmore have to be lookin' after Miss

Fanny Moore ? Look now, Nelly Corcoran I

he is as much fit for her as I am for Lord

Fairborough's daughter. 'T would be again

nature' to have 'em joined : becase why ?

they couldn't be joined; they could be no

more welded together than steel and bogash.

They'd fall asunder the minute you struck the

first blow on 'em. And Mrs. Credan, eh ?

Hee-e-e ! hee-e-e ! I wonder will women ever

have sense. Sure, blazes to her gizzard, she

ought to know what it is to turn her back

on the man she was dying' about, and who

was dying' about her; and not to be train'

to drag other people into the flames wit
herself. But, I'll tell sou, Nelly Corcoran,
what way it is : you never see snip one in
the yellow saunders but 'ud like to see others
smeared wit it as well as themselves. That's
the way 'tis wit Mrs. Credan : she did a
thing she was sorry for, and is sorry for,
and will be always sorry for; and 'twould
relieve her to see others do the same thing.
I know'd the gentleman she was dying' about,
as well as I know my right hand ; and sure
enough, there's not in the seven counties
better blood, or a comelier man : and thon
she went and married another man that sue
didn't care a trance for ; and all for whims,
and notions, and foolishness. And there she
is now grinding' her teeth for spite. Not
but the gentleman she got is good enough
for her — he is one of the Cretan sure
enough ; and a noble gentleman he is. But
what's the good o' that ? Nelly ! believe
me, if you had latin' and drinking' o' the best,
and silks-and satins o' the richest and
dearest ; and that sour heart was troubled
and your mind on the shaucjhrcmn (unsettled),
'twould be all of no use. Eh ? that's as
true as if I took ni}^ Bible-oath on it. And
you tell me that it is a match 'between Master

Harry Moore and Miss Julia Granville. I'll
tell you what it is, Nelly ; that's not one o'
the seven wonders o' the world. Did you
ever see a dudgeon fallen' in love void a
drake ? or a wood quest travelling' wit a
crow ? By course, no ; becase, why ?
'twould be again sense. If Miss Julia Granville
and Master Harry Moore wasn't in
love wit one another, I wouldn't believe
in Nature' no longer. Ay ! ay ! that's the
octave of it ; Miss Julia and Master Harry;
and Miss Fanny and Master Herbert.
Whoo-oo-oo ! I wish the captain was come
home. He'll say de novo to that, I'll swear.
And Paddy Larkin, too. Hee-e-e ! hee-e-e !
Oh, I'm insisted that Paddy is a general;
becase he would me so himself; and a fine
would general he'll make when the war'll
begin. What do you think of it at all,
Nelly? Only for the poor ould woman
beyond — a man's mother, you know — I
wouldn't half mind how 'twould go. The
boys'U be strong; and they'll gather from
every place round about : and if the rogers
don't come blazing' on 'em of a sudden, they
might carry the day. You see, there is
nothing' like having' the first blast ; when you.
lose that, 'tis ten to one but your mouth '11

of their courts and demesnes, and to give
'em to Moll Dreelin and Jer Grinnex. Oh,
Yia ! oh, Yia ! (Ob, God ! oh, God !) Did
any one ever hear the likes ? Isn't it a
wonder to me that you didn't ever larn any
sense in your born days ; and you ever and
always a talking' and discoursing' wit the
captain, a man who travelled the world,
and was living' in all parts, and knows everything
from the stars down. Will you ever
have any sense ? Can you larn any sense ?
Or is it the bagpipes took it all out o' your
head, and left you as you are ? Sure the
mother that reared you can't know peace
or comfort as long as you're minding' Paddy
Larkin, and such idle, strolling', '
roolaghs (gadding fellows). Allelu !
'twould bo fitter for the idle, shkampin'
blackguard to mind his work, and take care
of his mother in the latter end of her days —
the poor ould woman ! — than to be carrying'
on, making a fool of himself, and earning the
gallows for himself, and others too. God
grant him sense, and put him in the state of
grace, the strolling' gallivantin', unlucky
smuggachaun (dirty-nosed fellow). Denny
Mullins, I'm wondherin' at you. Bidyou^x
(ask) the captain about the business? If

you did he'd tell you what I'm saying' is true.
Yes, as true as the sun in the sky. Sure,
I'd be as blind as yourself only for he would
me all ; and isn't he knowledgeable, I ax
you ? Isn't he the knowledge ablest man in
these parts ? Is anything blind of him ?
"What could a poor crater of a woman like
me know, only for he would me ? Denny
Mulhns, listen to him, and larn sense."

She again rose, and taking her seat at the
opposite corner, she resumed her former
position and her work.

Denny, during this lecture, appeared deep
in reflection. Doubt, wonder, and bewilderment
took possession of his countenance in
turn. But when she had concluded, and
removed to the other side of the fireplace, he
drew a deep breath, and appeared somewhat
relieved. He then folded his arms around
his legs, and looked up the chimney, with
his mouth open, and his eyes half closed.
In this attitude he continued for some time,
but at length he turned his eyes in the direction
of Nelly, and rubbing his right ear with
his left hand, he muttered, —

Troth, 'tis droll enough. Where's this
I was ? Ay ; there's no fear of the ould
mother after all. Well and good. If the

of their courts and demesnes, and to give
'em to Moll Dreelin and Jer Grinnex. Oh,
Yia ! oh, Yia ! (Oh, God ! oh, God !) Did
any one ever hear the likes ? Isn't it a
Tvondher to me that you didn't ever larn any
sense in your born days ; and you ever and
always a talking' and discoursing' wit the
captain, a man who travelled the world,
and was vin' in all parts, and knows everything
from the stars down. Will you ever
have any sense ? Can you larn any sense ?
Or is it the bagpipes took it all out o' your
head, and left you as you are ? Sure the
mother that reared you can't know peace
or comfort as long as you're minding' Paddy
Larkin, and such idle, strolling', '
roolaghs (gadding fellows). Allelu !
'twould be fitter for the idle, shkampin'
blackguard to mind his work, and take care
of his mother in the latter end of her days —
the poor ould woman ! — than to be carry in'
on, making a fool of himself, and earning the
o-allows for himself, and others too. God
grant him sense, and put him in the state of
grace, the strolling' gallivantin', unlucky
smnggachaun (dirty-nosed fellow). Denny
Mullins, I'm wondherin' at you. Did you ax
(ask) the captain about the business? If

you did he'd tell you what I'm saying' is true.
Yes, as true as the sun in the sky. Sure,
I'd be as blind as yourself only for he would
me all ; and isn't he knowledgeable, I ax
you ? Isn't he the knowledge ablest man in
these parts ? Is anything blind of him ?
What could a poor crater of a woman like
me know, only for he would me ? Denny
Mullins, listen to him, and larn sense."

She again rose, and taking her seat at the
opposite corner, she resumed her former
position and her work.

Denny, during this lecture, appeared deep
in reflection. Doubt, wonder, and bewilderment
took possession of his countenance in
turn. But when she had concluded, and
removed to the other side of the fireplace, he
drew a deep breath, and appeared somewhat
relieved. He then folded his arms around
his legs, and looked up the chimney, with
his mouth open, and his eyes half closed.
In this attitude he continued for some time,
but at length he turned his eyes in the direction
of Nelly, and rubbing his right ear with
his left hand, he muttered, —

Troth, 'tis droll enough. Where's this
I was ? Ay ; there's no fear of the ould
mother after all. Well and good. If the

war don't come, that'll happen I wonder ?
Maybe they'd take the chains off the legs of
the poor ould coimthry without any fighting'
at all. Why, yes, that 'ud be the best. But,
tell me this, if Paddy Larkin bent a general,
and able to conquer all 'before him, what
reason would O'Connel have to be blown'
under him ? That's what I'd like to know.
He would me for certain that Dan himself
was at the head o' this business, and that
General O'Doherty was his right-hand man.
There now ; that'll you make o' that ? To
be sure, the captain is a knowledgeable
man ; and, above all men, I'd like to follow
in his track; but, then, when O'Connel, you
see, the greatest and the wisest man in the
world, is for the risen', and lays down the
law as clear and as straight as my chanter,
what am I to do, or any poor man like me ?
Does the captain know how it is better than
O'Connel? There's the question. Who'll
answer me that ? Nelly, do you know what ?
In troth, I'm insisted that Joe Whitmore is
for the business, and that he would Jer
Grinnex the same. ' Carry on, Jer,' says be,
and gain your rights.' What do you say
to that now ? And more than that Peter
Mackey would me — Peter himself is all for it

but he would me that Bartley Croker, the
'tourney — Bartley the Devil, you know — is of
opinion that the business ought to go on,
and that the risen' ought to be would and
manly. There's for you."

jelly laid aside the work she had in hand,
locked her fingers into each other, her elbows
resting on her knees, and raising her eyes up
towards the open space of the chimney-corner,
exclaimed, —

'' The Lord be praised ! Joe Whitmore,
Peter Mackey, and Bartley Croker, the
'tourney — Bartley the Devil — all joining' in the
risen' ! Did any one ever hear tell o' the
like ? Are you in earnest, Denny Mullins ?
or is it drain' you are ? or have you your
right senses about you ? or what is the matter
wit you at all, at all ? As long as I know
you — and that is many a long year now —
since I was the height of that," — and she
extended one of her hands about two feet
above the hearthstone — '^ I never thought
that the Lord left you without as much sense
as 'ud fit in a gander's head. But, now, I
see how it is wit you. God help you, you
poor crater; sure I wouldn't like to be
hard on you, but what can any one say but
that you're a holy show for the want of the

VOL. III. F

sense. Listen to me, Denny Mullins. God
help the mother that reared you, and when
she was rearing' you, sure she thought
'wasn't an innocent entirely she was carrying'
in her arms. But listen to me. Joe Whit-more,
Bartley Croker, and Peter Mackey, are
they the men you spoke of ? are they the men
that are going' to join the risen' ? Do you
know who their will join? I'll tell you.
They'll join the informer, they'll join the
hangman, they'll join the civil. Do you
know now who they'll join, Denny Mullins ?
If Joe Whitmore had anything to gain by it,
or any revenge to satisfy by it, he'd inform
again every man from this to the end of the
world. If Peter Mackey could put one
golden guinea more in his crock than is in
it already, he'd stand under the gallows-tree,
and hiding' himself behind something' so as not
to let any one see him, he'd haul u^^on the
rope that 'ud be round his mother's neck, as
if 'twas a cat he was hanging'. And as for
Bartley Croker, Yia ! Bartley, the 'tourney !
Bartley the Devil ! God help us, he is not
called out of his name. Sure they say the
civil was his father. The Lord preserve us
and come 'between us and all harm. Denny
Mullins, Bartley Croker 'udn't spare the best

man that ever Talked Ireland's ground if he

thought 'twould bring a penny to his pocket.

He wouldn't pretend though — oh, no, he

wouldn't joretind that he'd crack an egg

under his foot, he's so nice and so pious.

He's in all the orders, the say; but when

once he finds out the saint of anything that'll

bring gain to him, he'll not stay nor rest 'till

he come at that, by lies, and by schemes, and

by deceiving', and by roguery, and by perjury,

and by murder — yes, by murder, Denny

Mullins. He wouldn't murder a man wit

his own hand ; but, all the same, he would

put up others to do it. And the worst of allis

this, while he'd be foUowin' these wicked

ways he'd have his eyes turned up to heaven

'before the congregation, like a saint ; and

he'd be given' charity round about to the

collectors for the love o' God. Yes, for the

love o' God, that's what he'd tell 'em. God

defend us from the bad angels. They say —

whisper, Denny — they say that the civil was

a bright angel in heaven once, just the same

as a clergy. What do you say to that ?

Sure I heard Father Markham saying', wit

my own two ears, that there's no end to the

saints and to the clergy that's burning' in the

bottomless pit — that's in hell ; and that the

E 2

poorest crater that goes about begin' her
bit in this world is better off than any of
'em. The most of 'em that's down in that
place is nothing' but grand people, and lords,
and ladies of honour. And sure it stands
to raison. When you're poor and honest in
this world, and when you go to your duty,
and when you don't rob, or steal, or take
anything belonging to your neighbours, and
when you give shelter and a bit to eat to the
poor craters that's begging about for themselves
and their children, then you'll go
straight to heaven, without any danger to
soul or body. Not all as one wit the rich :
they have their heaven here in this world,
and then in course of raison they have no
call to go to heaven when they'll die, but
they'll go to the bottomless pit where there's
nothing' but fire and brimstone, and all sorts
of varmint. But what Father Markham
said in the sarmin was this, that the
grandees, that is, the rich and grand people,
can go to heaven as well as the poor, if they
attend to their duty, and be good to the
creatures that's in want, and give good
examples to every person about 'em ; and
not to be proud or conceited, or turning' up
their nose at those below 'em. That's what

Father Markham said in my learn', as well
as I could bring it. But lie spoke grand to
be sure. Glory be to God I 'tis lie have
the tongue. You'd never be tired of the
beautiful English he'd be spain' when he'd
be given' out the sarmin."

Denny listened very attentively ; for he
saw that there was much wisdom in the
observations of his companion, however rudely
and incoherently expressed. Besides, he had
a high opinion of the experience and discretion
for which she was noted throughout
the neighbourhood ; and was the more desirous
on that account of hearing her opinions
on any subject that occupied his own mind,
or that was agitated amono^ those with whom
he came in contact. When, therefore, ho
introduced the topics of the rising of the
Whitefeet, and of the part that Whitmore,
and Mackey, and Croker were supposed to
be prepared to take in that affair, he did not
express the convictions of his own mind With
reference to either the one or the other. He
merely wished to hear Nelly's views on both ;
so that he might thereby be assisted in
shaping his own views, or in modifying those
which he had already formed. He did not
entirely agree with her as to the propriety or

effects of the rising, tliougli lie leant a good
deal to the side which pointed to its folly
and absurdity ; but as to the intentions
ascribed to the three worthies, Whitmore,
Mackey, and Croker, of aiding and abetting
the rising for the benefit of the people and
the promotion of the public good, and also
as to their real characters, he entirely concurred
in the observations she had made on
both these topics. Yet he did not care to
tell her so : for he was a man who preferred
to be thought incapable of forming shrewd
opinions on passing events, to being esteemed
an acute observer of them. This was his
peculiarity ; arising perhaps from the nature
of his occupation, which brought him in contact
with all sorts of people, rich and poor,
high and low, Whigs and Tories, Whitefeet,
and the opponents of Whitefeet.

In replying to her observations, therefore,
he evaded the disputed points altogether, and
confined himself to the dogmatic question as
to who were, and who were not, entitled to
enter heaven. He turned round on his seat,
after she had closed her remarks : and,
placing himself in an attitude by which his
face was partly turned to the wall behind
him, and his back partly turned to Nelly,

with one hand supporting his head, and the
other under the elbow of the former, he
commenced to say, —

'' I don't know but you may be partly
right, and may be partly wrong. 'Isn't
every one as is able to tell how it goes on in
the other world. That is, if there is any
other world at all; though myself believes
there is. Father Markham knows all about
it, by course ; although, Nelly, it isn't clear
to me that those clergy can be depended on
when they do be making' their armies. It
stands to raison that they must be tellin' us
something' or other, and if they didn't tell
about the other world, 'tis hard to say what
business they'd have among us at all. You
see, we are able to make out this world ourselves
— every one according' to his business.
There's myself ; I goes to a wedding', and to a
party, and to a hauling' home, and to a grand
ball, or a grand dinner, to play my pipes, and
to earn a shilling' ; and when I come home,
the ould woman puts down the pot, and provides
according' to manes. Well and good;
all the clergy in the universal world don't
know more anent that than myself and the
ould woman, nor half as much ; savin' their
reverence. And so on, wit the captain and

Nelly Corcoran ; and so on wit every one
else. Now thin, what sort of business would
the char gy have in the world at all, if they
had nothing' to say about some other world
that nobody ever yet seen, nor, maybe, never
would. They have a good trade, howsoever,
Nelly. And myself don't begrudge it to 'em ;
Grod forbid. If there was ne'er a hell in it,
nor e'er a civil, myself don't know what 'ud
become of the clergy at all ; the creatures 'ud
starve, exception' something' 'ud be give out to
'em by the Soupers, or some other charitable
Christians that 'ud be going' about lookin' for
the poor. But what odds is it to me, or to
you, Nelly, or to any one that have to earn
their bit and their sup, whether there's any
other world, or any civil ; sure it won't put
the value of a blind nought in our pockets.
Not all as one as the clergy ; they get a good
bit, and a good sup by it ; and they rowl
about on their horses and coaches, just the
same as if they were the lords of the land.
And more good may it do 'em ; 'isn't within'
'em any harm I am, but just tellin' how it came
about that the other world, and the civil,
and all, was invented for the good o' trade.
Nelly, did Father Markham say that the rich
would go to heaven as well as the poor ? "

'^ He did so ; and I believe him, too —
that's some of 'em," replied JN'ellj.

Well," continued Denny, '' 'tis a droll
saying'. Ah, then I heard a clergy say in' the
contrary o' that ; and as good and 'cute a
clergy as Father Markham. I heard him
saying' that one of 'em, that's of the rich
people, had no more chance of going' there
than a camel had to go through the eye of a
needle. What do you think of that now ?
And a camel is as big as a cow. And then,
by course, if they can't go to heaven, there's
no other place for 'em to go but hell : exception'
purgatory : and, by all accounts, that's
no better than hell. That is, if all they say
be true — and I don't know whether it is or
not, Xelly Corcoran. I know I saw a spirit
once : but, faith, I was afraid to speak to
him. My hair stood of an end on the top of my
head : and every drop of sweat that run do^vn
my body was as big as your thumb. They
say, if you'd cross yourself three times, and
turn up the tail o' your coat, and look under
your legs, wit your back turned to him, he
should speak to you, and tell you his business.
But I'd fall into a faint 'before I'd go through
half that. It was when I was crossing' the
pinch on the side o' the hill, coming' up from

Barnaclarrag, ten years come next April. He
stood 'before me on the cussaraun (path) in
the shape of a greyhound. The sight left
my eyes when I seen him, and I had like to
fall in a heap on the spot. I shut my eyes
till I wouldn't see him again, and I made
back as fast as I could, till I came to Tim
Murphy's, and when I went inside the door,
and seen the light, I fainted like a dead
corpse. That's how 'twas, Nelly Corcoran.
And, believe me, I never came that way again
in the night."

Nelly appeared deeply interested in the
story of the spirit, as, indeed, she did in all
that Denny had said in reference to hell and
purgatory. The Whitefeet and the rising
vanished from her mind , and all her thoughts
became occupied with the affairs of the otherworld.
She laid by her work, and renewed
the fire, telling Ninny E-ice to bring in some
fresh sods from the hinny, while she herself
was clearing away the ashes, and straightening
up the fire. In the meantime she kept
dropping exclamations and broken phrases,
so as to keep the train of her ideas as much
as possible from entanglement. After having
put down the fresh sods, and swept away the
ashes, and made everything look tight and

cosy, lie sat down again opposite to Denny;
and taking a ball of yarn from a hole or
recess in the wall beside her, she commenced
to patch a stocking which Ninny had brought
to her from the drawer of the dresser. She
looked very grave and thoughtful ; but it
was evident, from the movement of her lips,
and the occasional glance which she cast
across at Denny, that there was something of
moment agitating her mind ; and that she
was struggling with her thoughts in the endeavour
to put them in order, and then pour
them out in full tide upon the ear of her
companion. She coughed a low and lazy
cough two or three times ; and then seeming
to have gained a complete mastery over
the mob of ideas that were shuffling through
her brain, she opened her mouth, and thus
began, —

As sure as you and myself are sitting' here,
Denny Mullins, there's such a place as purgatory
; and 'tis there the poor Christians must
go before the gates of heaven can open for
'em. Don't you believe any one that'll tell
you to the contrary. And sure you ought
to know that yourself long ago. There's
little Ninny there can tell you about it, and
she is not eight years of age yet. And 'tis

a queer tiling that a man oE your age, Denny
Mullins, would be without known' what a
little child like that have by heart long ago.
Look at your Catechism, and you'll see it
there laid down, in black and white as plain as
the daylight. Sure if there wasn't such a
place in the other world who'd ever expect to
go to heaven, where there's no one living' but
saints and angels, without spot or stain, or
anvthinof on 'em, but as white as the driven
snow. And poor sinners like us to think of
going' among them is out of all raison, until
we're first cleared of our sins, and fit to show
ourselves in cleanliness and decency among
'em. Didn't I hear Father Markham say in'
that nothing' unpure would be allowed into
heaven ; and what is that, but that we must
be like a lane bleached linen shirt, starched
and ironed, 'before we dare show our face in
such a place. 'Isn't all as one as going' to
purgatory, where anyone can walk in exception'
robbers and murderers, and the likes ; but
they can't, since they must go to hell to suffer
for ever and ever, amen. Out of hell there's
no redemption ; the meaning' of that is, when
once the poor souls, God help 'em, are sent
there through means of their sins, there's no
back door for 'em to escape out of it, but they

must stay there, burning' in fire and brimstone,
Tvitli saints and all sorts of vermin crawling'
about 'em, 'till the end of the world, and after
it — oh, ay, for all eternity. But purgatory
is not all the same as that. The robbers, and
thieves, and murderers, and the wicked
people entirely, that don't mind anything, or
believe anything but this world and their
bellies — and sure, God help us, there's
enough of them same going' — well, hell was
made for them. But poor craters that are
struggling' and striven' to do what's right and
honest, and to keep God's commandments,
and to love their neighbours as themselves for
the love of God, sure 'isn't to hell the good
God would be sending' them. Xo ; He made
purgatory to send 'em there for a little while
until they were cleared of their faults — maybe
a little lie, or a little carelessness in saying'
of their prayers, or maybe, a bad thought
running' in their heads, without the craters
ever thinking' of coin' it. Yes, Denny Mullins,
they must stay there for a while till they are
clean and sweet to be brought to heaven
among the angels and the saints, and in the
company of God Himself, and of His blessed
mother. There's poor Andy Dobbin, the
crater who never did hurt or harm to any one.

but who was kind and loving' to the poorest
beggar that walked the road, who loved God,
and kept all His commandments — when he
died the other day, maybe with a little,
daunt (very small) stain of a sin on his sow!,
would it be fair and right that he should walk
straight to hell ? If it wouldn't, and that he
couldn't walk into heaven either— and sure,
he couldn't do that as long as there was spot
or speck on him — where, in the name of
raison and marcy, was he to go ? That's the
raison purgatory was made by the good God,
who promised all of us to give us according'
to our earning', that is, according' as we deserve
it. So Andy Dobbin, maybe, went there;
and, maybe, he went to heaven straight.
Denny, you snowed Squire Brownlow — the
Lord protect us, he was a wicked man — he
walked on the necks of the door ; he cursed,
and swore, and drank ; he ruminated every poor
crater he could lay hands on ; he didn't care
for the laws of God or the laws of man, and
he died ravin' and roaring', that they say you
wouldn't be in the better of it all jour born
days. Denny Mullins, would it be fair to
have him and Andy Dobbin sint to the same
place, and kept in the same place for ever ?
I ax yourself that now ? Would our good God

do the likes ? Grloiy, honour, and praise be
to His hoi J name, and to His blessed mother
in heaven, for ever and ever, amin. Now,
Denny Mullins, I ax you, after that, have the
clergy any business in this world ? Sure
your own sense '11 tell you that they're God's
messengers here, and that without 'em the
world 'ud be upside down. Is it to the likes
of us poor ignorant craters, that are blind to
knowledge — is it to the likes of us the world
'ud be left to do whatever we liked, and whatever
the civil might blow under us ? No,
Denny Mullins, God knew better, and so He
sent us the clergy, anointing' them with holy oil,
to stand here in jDlace of Himself; just the
same as Lord Fairborough's agent, Mr. Whitehead,
is over the estate when the lord himself
goes to England in the winter, and 'till
he come back in the summer again. Nothing
'ud go right if there wasn't some one over
the estates and the tenants 'till the lord 'ud
come back. And so God 'pointed the clergy
over the world 'till the day of judgment, when
He'll come to the fore Himself, and settle
everything to His own liken'. That's the way
'tis laid out. And, Denny Mulhns, you know
that as well as myself, but you must be tending'
your humours, and contradiction' God's truth.

But don't you be given' yourself that fashion,
for fear the civil might blow under you, and,
may be, God wouldn't stretch out His hand
to you when you'd be in want of His help.
Think o' that."

She then paused, and blessing herself
quietly and unobserved by Denny, began to
mutter some prayers. This was evidenced
by her silent breathing, the rapid motion of
her lips, and the occasional tapping on her
breast with her clenched hand. Denny, in
the meantime, remained fixed in the attitude
we have already described, with the exception
that he had turned his face closer to the wall
so close indeed that his nose occasionally
touched it — and gave more of his back to the
lecturer. He had also shifted his arms from
time to time, putting one hand now, and
another again under each cheek alternately.

After Nelly had paused, we say, he maintained
the same attitude, and looked as
though he were unconscious of the pause, with
this exception, that he stealthily rolled round
one of his eyes, that which lay nearer to the
line in which she bore from him, as if to
inquire the cause and nature of her abrupt
termination of speech. But after this reconnoitring
movement of his eye, it 'fell back

again into its former dream j inclination
towards the wall. At length jelly, having
terminated her pious meditations, renewed
the conversation, that is, if her own theological
disquisition may be designated by the
name of conversation — for Denny, as we have
seen, was entirely passive under the logical
flow of her eloquence.

'' And was it at the pinch," she asked,
*' you seen the spirit ? "

Denny never moved a muscle ; he did not
even send out his eye to reconnoitre the new
position taken up by his adversary. He
maintained his own position and attitude
without faltering. Seeing this, and apparently
pleased with it — for she made no sign that
she had expected an answer to her question
Xelly went on, —

'• 'Tis many a year ago I heard of that
same pinch been' haunted ; and good raison
why. Did you ever hear tell o' the blind
pedlar that used to be going' about long ago ?
Ob, you weren't much good then, nor I
either. Well, one night, a dark, dreary
night that you couldn't see your hand, and
the wind blown' the same as if 'twas the
end of the world was there ; and the rain
was going wit the wind, enough to blind a

VOL. III. P

saint. That was the night; and 'twas near
Christmas. I heard my father telhn' it, many
is the time, and the neighbours' gathered
round the fire, of a winter's night. I was
small myself at the time ; and I remember I
used to run between my father's knees, afraid
o' my life that I'd be caught by the spirit.
Ah, 'twas a woful time then. No one 'ud go
out after sunset for fear they 'ud be murdered.
And where they buried him was
down at Kildobbin churchyard. And no one
'ud pass by there after, for the world ; since
he used to be seen going' over the stile of the
churchyard on his rounds, wit the pack on
his back, and the same stick he had when he
was alive. And then he'd go up to the pinch
where they murdered him, and stop there
till near midnight, when he'd come back to
the churchyard again, and go over the stile,
and across through the graves till he'd find
out his own coffin ; and lie there for the rest
of the night. Peg Duffy could tell you how
her uncle was coming' home from the fair of
Corrigcastle one night, and when he was
coming' towards Kildobbin churchyard what
would he see just risen' over the stile but the
pedlar, and his pack hanging' down on his back
and his stick on the top o' the stile — in the

shape of a goat. As soon as be seen him, he
lost his walk, and fell down on the middle o'
the road, just the same as a corpse ; and he
never rose out o' that spot till the men were
going' to work early in the morning', and found
him there, wit just the life in him, and that's
all. They took him np, and brought him to
the next house, that was Paddy Sheehan's,
near the turnpike road, until bis brother
came down wit a horse and car, and carried
him home ; and there he was stretched on the
broad of his back in the bed for six honos
'before he recovered his senses, I may
say, for he was as weak as a child in the
bed. So. you see 'isn't rio-ht to be out in
the night."

Denny, Who was constantly shifting
his position, during this recital, and occasionally
drawing the sleeve of his coat
across his forehead, which became covered
with perspiration, moved farther into the
chimney-corner when she had uttered the last
words repeated above. And then looking
tremulously around him, and fixing his eyes
on Nelly, asked her what time would the
captain be home ?

F 2

CHAPTER XIX.

THE Tit OF Roguery — PIETY ASSISTS IT.

When Denny Mullins inquired of Nelly what
time the captain would be home, he was
swayed solely by one feeling, and that was
the fear of spirits. While Nelly was relating
the accident that had befallen Peg Duffy's
uncle when he had seen the pedlar's ghost on
the stile in the shape of a goat, Denny's heart
was undergoing a series of oscillations, inspired
by fear, which caused him to reflect on
the best mode of securing his safety against
the dangers which he felt gathering around
Mm. It is true that no ghosts had ever been
known to appear on that line of communication
which lay between the Glazement and his
own cabin ; yet, how was he to know that the
spirit of the pedlar should not, on that particular
evening, take a freak, and stroll into
the glen, to meet him on his way home. And
what further aided this rising apprehension in

his mind was, that while Nelly was advancing
in her narrative, the evening was advancing
in doom and sullenness. The shades had
thickened around the mountain side, and
the wind began to rise, and to puff in sudden
gusts down the chimney ; and all this was
accompanied with a pattering of rain against
the window-panes. In short, a night of
elemental uproar appeared to be approaching ;
and Denny was not a man that could allow
such doings to go on without speculating as
to their consequences to himself. He had
often heard, and indeed it was a point of
faith with him, that stormy nights, when
gloom and weird shadows settled down upon
the earth, and when wind and rain held high
carnival in the air, were especially selected
by the spirits of the dead to walk abroad,
and visit those haunts around which in the
days of their earthly pilgrimage they were
wont to saunter. If the hour of twelve
o'clock at night, that is, the midnight hour,
had passed he should feel safe ; because at that
hour all wandering ghosts retired to their
resting-places, and the way lay clear for live
men travelling to their homes ; but before that
hour no man in his senses had any business
to be out, especially in any place where it

was known spirits paid their visits. When,
therefore, Denny inquired what time would
the captain be home, he was influenced by his
knowledge of the law which regulated the
movements of the dead ; and he felt that if
he had to remain till midnight, — for, before
that hour, his return home was not to bethought
of, unless the captain accompanied
him — and that there should be no one in the
Glazement but himself and Nelly, and the
*' little crater of a child, Ninny Rice :" and
if the night instead of getting better should
become worse, and that in consequence he
should be obliged to remain till morning, he
should be caught doing two things which were
not at all agreeable to him, namely, keeping
his mother up waiting for him, and exposing
the '' char alder'' of Jelly Corcoran. The
question then was one fraught with interest
to his physical and moral welfare. The idea
of being thrown into a corpse by the sight of
a spirit, or of being the cause of ill-repute to
the character of a decent woman, was by no
means agreeable to the feelings of Denny.
He couldn't stand it. And who should blame
him ?

Whether Nelly understood the full drift of
the question thus put to her or not we have
no means of ascertaining, inasmuch as her

reply was of that curt and double-liaDCLed
nature wliicli precludes the possibility of
arriving at any definite conclusion as to its
precise meaning. She simply replied "It
depends." He then wheeled round to his
former position, turning his back upon Nelly,
and his face to the wall, and became silent and
motionless as a statue. We shall leave him
so for the present, and permit jelly also to
go on with her darning without further questioning.


At the time, or, at least, about that time,
when Denny addressed the question to Nelly
as to the time of the captain's return home,
that gentleman was engaged in investigations
of high import ; or, at least in the unravelling
of certain mysterious and ominous proceedings
of vast consequence to the interests of
some of his friends. The night, as we have
said, had set in with very gloomy forebodings.
The sky became one impending mass of
black, heavy, sluggish clouds; the rain fell,
and was borne along on the wings of the
rising wind, that flew in wild and fitful gusts
through the air, and rattled amid casements,
doors, and chimney-tops, making a strange
uproar. At that time, we say, a consultation
was progressing in a warm and well-appointed
apartment, not many miles from the Glazement

; and, strange to say, some of the topics
there discussed were precisely the same as
those which had occupied the attention of
Denny Mullins and Nelly Corcoran. This
must be regarded as a remarkable coincidence,
but what made it still more worthy of notice
was, that the individuals — and they were only
two in number — who carried on this consultation
were of an entirely different class
from that to which those of the Glazement
belonged. They were no less distinguished
personages, indeed, than Joe Whitmore and
Bartley Croker; and the apartment which
afforded them its comforts and its retirement
for the purposes of their high deliberations
was the library of Castle Whitmore. Here
they sat, up one pair of stairs ; the window-shutters
closed and bolted, and the crimson-coloured
drapery throwing its heavy folds
along the entire window front. A table lay
between them, partially covered with books
and papers, with a whip, a pair of gloves,
and a few other objects of incongruous character
lying and scattered among them. The
fire blazed in the grate with a bright and
cheering' lustre, and the chandelier that lav
suspended above the table flung its flickering
rays along the shelves and book-frames which

covered the walls around. The table Twas
placed longitudinally from the fire-place
towards the opposite wall ; and on the end
next the fire were placed two decanters, and
two wine-glasses, the latter sparkling with
the juice of the grape. The two gentlemen
sat on either side, with their feet resting on
the fender, and their bodies thrown back in
the luxurious recesses of soft-cushioned armchairs.
At first, they appeared to talk indifferently
upon topics which accidently
presented themselves to their observation ;
sipping their wine occasionally, and looking
through their fingers at the gentle quivering
of the blaze that played around the grate.

We have said that some of the topics which
eno;aofed their attention were identical with
those which Denny Mullins and Nelly
Corcoran were discussing at the cosy fireside
of the Glazement. And so they were.
Whit more asked Croker, just as they had
entered the library from the dining-room,
where they had parted with one or two other
gentlemen, who had been dining with them —
he asked him what he thought of ghosts.
Croker smiled a curious smile, and then
twisted his mouth towards one ear. He
next assumed a sort of solemn aspect, and

looked up to the ceiling, playing ^vitli, or
counting his fingers, as if abstracted in deep
thought. Whitmore, in the meantime, took
his wine-glass, and lifted it to his lips ;
and having just tasted it, he laid it down
again. Impatient for the reply of Croker to
the very important question which he had
put to him, he ventured upon an opinion
himself; which was to the effect that he had
some misgiving on the point; and that, in
fact, he was rather inclined to think that
there were ghosts. He referred to his
memory for passages of Scripture which
would seem to justify the belief he entertained;
and after a confusion of ideas,
created by his quotations from memory, he
came to the sage conclusion that '' there
might be ghosts ; and that there oughtn't
be ghosts, after all." Croker smacked his
lips, and yawned ; then he took his wine-glass
and sipped it, and laid it down again. After
this prelude, he twisted his right eye, that
is, the eye on the side next to his companion,
and fastened it on him for a moment ; but it
was only for a moment, for he instantaneously
withdrew it; and none save the closest
observer could have detected the slightest
movement in it. He then, with a face that

lengthened as he spoke, and with a voice
and air that mimicked the tone and mien of
extreme sanctity, observed that "it is our
duty in all cases of doubt and difficulty,
where spiritual things are concerned, to submit
ourselves to those whom the Great
Jehovah has set apart for the investigation
of such matters. It was the very essence of
wise and judicious conduct to adopt this
rule, nay. to obey this law; just, as in temporal
affairs, the Great Power, the high
Moving Authority, the Omniscient Being,
has, in His infinite and loving wisdom, set
apart men learned in the law, that is, the
temporal law, for the purpose of directing
all persons in the line of duty which they
should pursue, with, due regard to their
personal safety, and personal welfare here
below. These then " (he was alluding to
those learned in the law) '•' are the only safe
guides in all our temporal difficulties ; they
are the only persons who know how to
extricate us from danger, from difficulty, and
from error ; and to these, therefore, are we
bound, in wisdom and in prudence, to subject
ourselves. They are, as it were, the temporarily
anointed of the Lord ; just the same
as clergymen are the spiritual anointed."

Whitniore heard this exposition of spiritual
and temporal authority with absorbed attention
; but yet. at its conclusion he appeared
by no means satisfied about the existence or
non-existence of ghosts — that is, of ghosts
visiting this earth. And so, after another sip
from his wine-glass, he said that " it appeared
to him, from the explanation which his friend
had made, that the lawyers were the best
judges of the matter — that is, of ghosts,
inasmuch as they, the lawyers, were the
anointed of the Lord for earthly purposes,
and it was to earthly ghosts he was alluding
; that is, to the ghosts that showed
themselves on this earth."

Croker looked through his fingers, while a
dark shadow passed over his brows, and his
mouth curled upwards. After a brief pause,
he said, " As to whether ghosts — disembodied
ghosts — visit this earth or not, I am not in a
position to assert. It is a question admitting
of much debate. At a first glance I would be
disposed to say not ; because the affairs of this
world are unsuited — must be unsuited to the
condition of the soul when divested of its
earthly trammels, and transferred to a state
of being of which we can have no conception,
but which we must now believe to differ

essentially from that with which we are conversant
here. I say this, reasoning upon the
matter, and assuming for argument sake that
there is such a thing as another state of
existence. If there be, I repeat that it must
be one so unlike to this which we enjoy
here, that the concerns of the world cannot
possibly affect the spirits of those who have
once shuffled off the coil of flesh and blood
with which they had been encumbered. But
I cannot say that I believe in any such
state." Here he tossed off another glass of
wine, and then resumed, " I say, it is no part
of my belief, of my real internal convictions,
that there is such a thing as a future state.
You know, my dear sir, that the necessities
of society, and our own individual aspirations
here, require us to assent to, nay to become
supporters of this wholesome belief. Yes, I
say, wholesome, because it keeps the ignorant
and the unlettered, and the weak-minded,
within convenient bounds for us to operate
upon them. So it is wholesome. If all were
capable of understanding the mystery of life ;
if they knew that it was a period of being
which was limited to personal gratification
and enjoyment in this earthly sphere, what
should become of you and me ? what should

become of the few who are like us — the
superior portion of the great mass of humanity,
who direct all things to their own individual
and wise purposes ? Sir, I tell you,"
and he struck the table with his clenched
hand — " Sir, I tell you that the doctrine of
a hereafter is a consummate farce. But, as
I have observed, it is a useful doctrine, notwithstanding.
And I have always considered
it as a most important portion of the duty
which I owe to myself, to encourage it by
every means in my power, by externally
complying with those practices its teaching
involves. In point of fact, I am most punctilious
in that regard ; and I am therefore
regarded in society as a devotee of the first
water. Once declare yourself a non-believer
in a future existence, and what becomes of
your hopes of wealth and pov^er ? What becomes
of that magnificent field which is
presented to your ambition, and which consists
in the credulity, the conscientiousness,
the simplicity, and the unguarded openness of
those ^v\\o are influenced by this frippery of
belief r Why, the gates of advancement towards
the goal of ail real blessing would be
closed against you. All real blessing, I repeat,
because there is no blessing either here

or hereafter, whatever that hereafter maj
mean — no hissing save that which is derived
from wealth and power, and Which consists
in the gratification of the senses. Yes, the
part of wisdom is to go with the teachings
and practices of the Church — what is called
the Christian Clmrcli — amongst ns, to go the
fall length with them ; for then you have
free scope to advance sour interests by every
mode and practice that your sagacity and
ingenuity can suggest. The Church will
sustain you in all your acts, provided you do
not openly commit yourself — that is, that you
do not expose yourself to the grasp of the
law of the land. What would your father
have been, I ask you, if he had been swayed
by the influences and compunctions of this
superstitious doctrine of a luorld to come ?
What would he have been, Whit more ? And
what would you be now, had he been a drivelling
idiot of that sort. But he was a wise and
a sagacious man. He saw the right thing, and
he did it. He clothed himself with the piety
of the time and the age ; he followed in the
path of Church doctrine ; he submitted to its
practices : but in his wisdom and his prudence
he realized a fortune. How ? by availing
himself of the folly of those who really be-pleyel

in the superstitions they practised, and
by making that his own which would otherwise
have passed into the hands of others.
Conscience, and honesty, and charity ; truth,
and justice, and honour; heaven, and hell,
and purgatory — pshaw ! There is no reality
in this chaotic jumble of ideas ; it is a mere
fungus overspreading the rotten structure of
this belief of a future state. No, Whitmore,
there is no such thing as a future existence.
The first and greatest philosophers, those
men of lofty and vigorous minds, who in the
springtime of humanity, I may say, with the
freshness and expansion of the intellect to
direct and guide them, could not fail to grasp
the destination of the principle of life, they
derided the doctrine of a future state. Their
successors, it is true, dreamt of such a state.
Socrates, an old driveller, led on this later
brood of dreamers ; but when the hour of
dissolution arrived to him, how did he treat
his own doctrine ? Did he adhere to it with
the unflinching tenacity of belief ? No ; he
fell back into the prevalent doctrine of his
time, a doctrine which admitted of no determinate
first cause, and consequently of no
sustaining power of immortality. To be
sure, there have been systems of religion at

every period of the world's existence ; but
Tvliat do tliej avail in the way of argument
to support the doctrine of a future existence?
Nothing. They prove one thing, and only
one thing, that is, that it is in the nature of
man to desire a continued existence. But
that is only a principle, a mere elementary
sensitiveness inseparable from the human
composition, which preserves it from immediate
extinction, and guards it against
those dangers which surround it on every side.
And a very necessary element of life it is ;
for without it man would not exist an hour.
The desire of existence is what preserves and
promotes existence. Then, from this principle
religion sprang up ; and every people gave to
this such shape and form as was suited to
their peculiar views of the prolongation of
life. Some had one system, some another.
Each people established an array of gods and
goddesses in accordance with their ideas of
what was best calculated to lengthen out
their days, and to afford them the greatest
amount of enjoyment in the longest time.
The lower animals are impressed with the
same desire of immortality ; they have their
religious systems, too, according to their respective
capacities. That is, they seek to pro-vol.

III. G

long their lives by the adoption of a system of
care and protection suited to their various
instincts, or beliefs, if I may so term them.
This is as much a principle in the nature of
beasts as in the nature of man. Mark the
absurdity of this doctrine of a future state.
If there is such a state in reality, ho <v is it
that man was not impressed with that unfailing
conviction from the beginning, and
with the means of arriving at it with an unerring
aim ? So far from this being the case,
we know that men and nations in all ages of
the world differed in their views on the subject,
and in all their proceedings aimed only
at the gratification of their senses and the
indulgence of their passions. If there be
what is called a self-existent Being, who
created the world, and who is capable of
destroying it, He could have no other design
in its formation than the indulgence of a
whim, to amuse Himself and to sport with His
own power; otherwise He would have implanted
in man, who appears to have been
the highest manifestation of His creative will,
an inflexible determination to accomplish the
end of his being, if that end was to arrive at
an endless existence hereafter. But we know
that such is not the case ; for all men, at all

periods of the world, have pursued different-courses,
according to their different interests,
and all tending in different directions. There
is no fixed system to justify a belief in a
future existence. All is at variance ; all is a
chaotic mixture of antagonistic interests,
limited to the pleasures and enjoyments of
this world. Such are, in brief, my views of
the nature of man and of his province in the
Creation."

He filled himself another glass, and took
it off at a breath. Whitmore listened in a
sort of dreamy mood to this exposition of
the nature and end of man; occasionally
nodding assent to the positions laid down by
his companion, and affirming them by the
expressions, " I believe that," and " that is
my view."

We feel that we ought not to proceed
further in recording the views of this brace
of godless rascals, before offering a few
remarks on the nature and tendency of those
views. Bartley Croker, as we have more
than once intimated, was a low attorney,
who by means of a species of cunning peculiar
to men of his character, and of an external
piety, succeeded in obtaining the
agency of Lord Milford's estates in that part
G 2

of the country where he (Croker) resided.
Lord Milford was, unfortunately, an absentee
landlord, and hence the power assumed and
exercised by the attorney-agent over the
estates and tenantry was unlimited. He
made and unmade leases, imposed fines,
ejected tenants, received and disposed of
rents just as it pleased him. He transmitted
such sums of money as he thought
proper to Lord Milford at two periods of the
year, these being at the gale days when the
rents were collected. On those occasions he
also forwarded a statement purporting to
be a succinct account of the state of the
tenantry, their habits, their punctuality in
the payment of their rents, and their indebtedness,
as the case might be, or rather
as he represented the case. Lord Milford
received the rent and the statement at some
temporary abiding-place in England, or
France, or Germany, or some other country
where his pleasure or his ease happened to
transfer him. His lordship took the money ;
and the statement he invariably threw into
the fire. Hence it happened that Bartley
Croker became so absolute in his authority
and power over the tenantry of Gurtroo, and
of the other lowlands embraced within his

jurisdiction, that he ruled them as serfs, and
with an eye solely to his own advantage and
aggrandizement. He became possessed, as
tenant of course, to his principal, of several
small farms on the estate, from which he
had driven the tenants by means of exorbitant
exactions : but his great acquisition
in this way was the large property held,
under a lease of lives renewable for ever, and
at a nominal rent, by the late Greoge Granville
of Ash Grove. His mode of accomplishing
this was of the simplest kind. He
studied Mr. Granville's character (this was
an essential part of his system of roguery),
which he found to be easy, confiding, and
credulous, as well as careless, extravagant,
and improvident. He then became his intimate
friend and flatterer. Next, he encouraged
him in every species of reckless
extravagance, such as betting on races ;
purchasing extraordinary horses at extraordinary
prices ; giving great, frequent, and
expensive entertainments ; speculating in all
sorts of bubble companies ; and in short,
running risks of every kind which involved
a large and wasteful expenditure of money,
with a remote and very doubtful expectation
of a return. He furnished him with sums

of money from time to time, in furtherance
of these speculations ; and he never, of
course, troubled him for rent ; on the contrary,
he begged him never to speak of it ;
'twas so insignificant, so paltry. Lord Milford
would not hear of it.

It is scarce necessary to sa' that Lord
Milford was wholly unacquainted with those
proceedings ; and that after a certain convenient
period he was carefully informed
that that portion of the property held by
George Granville was going to ruin, and that
not only there had been no rent paid on it
for years, but that it had been actually
mortgaged for several thousand pounds.
The consequence was that George Granville
was dispossessed of the property, and Bartley
Croker became its proprietor on the same
terms as it had been held by Mr. Granville.

How this was effected the reader may
easily imagine when he is reminded that
Bartley Croker produced an account of 
against Mr. Granville of five times the
amount of the sums he had actually lent
him; and that this account was supported
by the acknowledgment, in writing, of Mr.
Granville himself. How this happened can
be accounted for simply by the fact that

Bartlej Croker made it a point to obtain Mr.
Granville's signature to any paper lie deemed
of importance, only when they sat in jovial
humour and abounding glee over their wine.
Indeed, Bartley Croker manifested, from a
boy, the most astonishing skill in everything
that comes within the province of roguery
To this he owed his present position. He
was the son of a poor cobbler ; and was
early trained to a life of lying and stealing
among the streets and alleys of Cushport.
He was first launched into a sort of fixed
employment by an attorney, of no good
repute, in the town, who took him to sweep
his office, light his fire, and run about with
messao-es. He acquired increased skill in
roguery, as well as increased pay, and preferment,
in the office, in the course of a short
time ; and at length he became an articled
clerk to his employer, having, in the meantime,
acquired a knowledge of reading and
writing and figures. Thus the tide favoured
him; and he rode upon its crest into the
agency in which he was now flourishing.

This was the man, then, who so pompously
declaimed against the existence of a future
state, and the providential arrangement of
the powers and destinies of mankind. To

hear him speak one would be inclined to
believe that he was, at least, possessed of
great learning ; and that, however unblest
by the light of faith, he was not unacquainted
with the testimony of unbelief as handed
down to us in the philosophy of the heathen
and the frenzied ravings of the atheist. But
no ; he was as ignorant of anything like
learning as it was possible for any human
being to be who had never entered its precincts.
His education was a blank ; his
reading was confined to the mere mechanical
routine and technical formalities of his profession
; and his thoughts were all directed
into those channels of deceit and fraud and
perjury which are regarded by men like him
as the true destination of a great mind, and
the direct pathway to wealth and honour.
He was, therefore, altogether outside his
province when he undertook to speak upon
any subject connected with the domain of
science and literature. Of these he literally
knew nothing ; yet of subjects embraced
within their range he would talk with as
much confidence and assurance as if he were
really capable of understanding them, and
as if they were matters as light and as easy
to manage as the concoction of an attorney's

bill. But, as in everything else, he had his
one motive operating even here. He wished
to make something out of it. He knew that
the great bulk of men were little competent
to judge of a man's real knowledge or real
ignorance; and that whatever he might
venture to assert, he should stand very little
danger of being detected as an impostor.

There is a sort of disposition on the part
of mankind generally to be imposed upon.
They seem to like it ; and especially where
religion is concerned. If we only look abroad
upon the world and mark the diversity of
sects and of creeds — some in direct hostility
to every principle of moral virtue — we must
come to the conclusion that mankind maybe
easily led away by the superficial possibilities
or demoniac ravings of any impostors
or madmen who may set themselves to traffic
upon them.

Bartley Croker, low-reared and uneducated
as he was, knew by a sort of vicious intuition,
as well as by experience, that all he
had to do with such a man as Joe AVhitmore
was to repeat in plausible language the canting
phrases of a sort of philosophical theology
which freethinkers, and atheists, and
deists, and every species of vagabond and

tMef Lave written and spoken, in order to
impress upon him not onlj^ bis own importance
and cleverness, but also the folly of
being restrained by the teachings of a Christian
cliurcli. He knew Whitmore was a sill"
man, as well as a rogue. He wished, therefore,
to tear away from his mind and feelings
any apprehension that might be lingering
there as to a future state ; and thus to
embolden him in the perpetration of any
act of villainy which lie believed would be
attended with advantage to himself.

Therefore it was that, on the present
occasion, when he had an object in view,
which will appear immediately, he flung
the sacred Scriptures aside; he trampled
upon history; he sneered at the Christian
dispensation ; and substituted his own vicious
vagaries for the wisdom of ages, and the
sacred inspirations of heaven. He revealed
his real character too ; he felt himself safe
with his half-idiot companion ; and gave
rent to the hypocrisy which constituted the
leading feature in his mental composition.
He declared himself as practising all the
external duties of a Christian, while he internally
disbelieved the doctrines which inculcated
them; and as being prepared to

commit any act in violation of those doctrines,
provided that it was of advantage to
him, and that he escaped detection by the
hiw.

Joe Whitmore, we have said, listened with
a sort of dreamy attention to all this denunciation
of the doctrines of Christianity, manifesting
occasionally his assent by brief muttering,
such as, '' I believe that," '' It is my
opinion too." But when Croker had ceased
speaking, and leant lazily back into his chair,
Whitmore roused himself; and filling his
glass from one of the decanters, proceeded
to unfold his mind, which he seemed to do
without reserve, to the view of his companion.


"I don't know exactly," he said, "what
to think about a future state of existence,
but, crack ! I like to enjoy myself in this
world as far as I am able. I am a true blue,
in that respect, Croker; and I don't envy
the man who doesn't feel as I do in that way.
Men may say what they like, but if the veil
were drawn aside, I just imagine that it is of
this world, and not of any fanciful one, they
would be found thinking. Xow, Croker, my
dear fellow, it is not for us to be wasting
words upon those things that don't concern us;

I wish to have your assistance in that affair
which immediately affects myself, ay, and
you too. I want to clip the wings of that
aspiring bantam, that presumptuous beggar
who is crossing my path. I want, too to
take down that little impertinent monkey
from her stand, and teach her how to appreciate
my character and feelings. Crack ! I
am not to be trifled with by such contemptible
butterflies. I am a man of property and
position in the county, and I must not be
insulted with impunity. Not that I care a
rush for the little jade ; but I have fixed my
mind upon possessing her, and I must not be
baulked. And to think that such a fellow as
Granville, the sneaking beggar, should presume
to come between me and the object of
my desire, is a thing not to be quietly endured.
Then he is making his calculations
on the influence of his friend Lord Fair-borough."


Here Croker gave a sudden start, and,
turning quickly to the table, filled a glass of
Wine, and drank it ofl". Whitmore continued,
"I care not a rush for Lord Fairborough ;
I'm independent of lira and of the whole
British Government. I say, Croker, how do
Lord Milford and Lord Fairborough stand ?

Are they friends ? " Croker evidenced some
uneasiness again at this question, but lie
made no reply ; and Whitmore continued,
*' ^Vell, I say that I care not for the influence
of Fairborougli and Milford united, not I. But
-what have they to do with the prosecution of
my design ? I want to possess Fanny Moore
that is my object. I don't speak of love in
the case. Crack ! I am no milk-sop of that
sort. I have one object to achieve ; no, I
have two objects to achieve — I have to pull
down the pretensions of that upstart coxcomb,
Granville — the presumptuous scoundrel — and
I have to teach that little chattering monkey,
Fanny Moore, that she cannot insult me with
impunity. These objects are worth attaining,
and I have the power to attain them. I
shall send the cur whining to his lair, and I
shall have the gratification — yes, it will be a
gratification in a double sense, I admit that
of compelling that little pea-hen to acknowledge
me her lord and master. Crack !
what a delightful prospect. Look here,
Croker ! confound me ! " — and he here struck
the table with his great clenched fist, which
caused the decanters and glasses to dance
and ring — 'confound me if I would not
sacrifice half my property to accomplish this.

sow I am still of opinion that the plan I
submitted to you the other day for this purpose
is the best. There is a decision about
it that pleases me, besides the eclat of the
thing. Crack ! what will the people say ? To
be sure they'll say that it was a manly, courageous,
noble act. But listen, Croker — "
he bent over towards his companion until
his lips nearly touched his ear — "listen;
Miss Moore is an heiress, and old Moore
is wealthy. Put that and that together,
and then say if Joe Whitmore knows what
he is about." He here leant back in his
chair, and fell into a fit of laughter, which continued
for several minutes, and during which
he glanced over at Croker two or three
times, as if to ascertain whether that gentleman
fully appreciated the extent and depth
of his genius. Then he resumed, " Yes,
Croker, my boy, I am a man who keeps
awake while others are asleep. You know
the arrangement I proposed. Peter Mackey
at the Cross will direct the movement. He
is to engage Jer Grinnex, and three others
from the town of Cushport, friends of
Grinnex, on whom he can rely, and who are
unknown in these parts. They are to effect
an entrance into Moore's house a little after

midnight, sap, between one and two o'clock,
and to take her by force from lier bed. I am
to remain with my carriage and servants at
the outer gate of the demesne, on the public
road. She is to be gagged, so as to prevent
all noise, and make the thing pass off
smoothly. I then take her into the carriage
with myself, and the thing is done. We
drive to Cushport, arrive there before day,
or at least by dawning, and going on board
at once, set sail for Liverpool. The craft
shall be employed for my own special service.
That's the plan ; it admits of no failure. I
shall have Fanny marked with the Whitmore
arms, eh ? crack ! and I shall have the satisfaction
of knowing that beau Granville will
be sucking his thumb in idiotic helplessness,
while his heart will be lacerated with the
tortures of defeated love. Love ! The milksop
! the goose ! Ha, ha ! I shall have my
satisfaction then for his impertinence and
silent insults, and for her open and public
scorn." Here he ground his teeth together,
and drew up and extended one side of his
mouth until it nearly reached his ear. 'rand
her brother, too — the little sparrow-hawk —
his pride shall be pulled down, and his languishing
lady-love — the exquisite Julia — oh

how she will fret and pine ! Ay, Croker, I
shall play confusion among the whole cursed
set of them, and ]propitiate at the same time
the offended genius of my race for the insults
and the outrages of years. Ho 1 ho !
I'd crush their head beneath my heel, if only
one head contained the lives of the whole of
them. I'm not a man to be crossed in my
purposes ; I'm not a man to be treated with
scorn ; I'm not a man to permit myself to be
trampled upon; ay, like a worm. No ! no ! no! "

Here he started up from his seat, and
walked' rapidly up and down the room,
brandishing his arms iu the air. Croker
meantime turned around in his chair, and
eyed him curiously, vrhile his face assumed
a grin which seemed to indicate the
internal satisfaction which he felt at the
prospect of using for certain selfish and diabolical
purposes the man whom he now saw
unveiled before him.

After having exhausted his temporary
rage, Whitmore returned to the table, and
again filled himself a glass of wine, which he
swallowed at a breath ; he then threw himself
into his chair, closed his eyes, and drew
a deep sigh. He then leant back, and fell
into a state of reverie ; during which his lips

kept constantly moving. Croker still kept
his eye turned upon this companion ; and
appeared to enjoy his abstraction ; if a grim
smile which played around the corners of his
mouth and the involuntary opening and
closing of his nostrils afforded evidence of
his feelings. He said, at length, —

'' Now, Wliitmore, my dear fellow, we
must look carefully at this plan of yours. I
have thought it over several times since ydu
first mentioned it to me ; and though I see a
good deal in it which I can approve, yet, I
would not act too hastily upon it. It requires
a great deal of deliberation. I would not
adopt it as a first step ; I would rather
reserve it for future action, in the event of
other methods failing. — Now I have a plan
which, I think, ought to be tried in the first
instance ; and it recommends itself to my
mind on two grounds ; first, it is more safe ;
and second, if successful, it will be more
effective, more radical. Now, let me unfold
it to you."

Whitmore opened his eyes, and sat ujd right
in his chair. Then looking, with a fiery glare,
at his companion, he said, —
" Out with it, then — let me hear it at once.
Come, what is it ? "

VOL. TIT. H

My dear fellow," resumed Croker, '' you
must be patient, and attend calmly to what I
say. Great events can be brought about only
by coolness and diplomacy. Passion won't
do. Reason, unclouded judgment, calm reflection,
and deliberate action — these are the
requirements, in all cases where difficulty and
danger are involved. Now, hear me calmly
and dispassionately. This Whitefeet organization,
you are aware, is spreading pretty
generally through the country — at least
through this part of the country ; and some
mischief has already sprung from it. The
public mind is a good deal disturbed by its
acts and proceedings. Several attacks have
already been made upon private residences ;
and fire-arms have been forcibly taken from
them. Some persons, too, in resisting this
violence, have been wounded, and nearly
deprived of life. Very well ; you say — that
this jackanapes, Granville, is in your way ;
and so he is. I look upon him as a dangerous
character, not only as regards you, but as
regards the peace of society. He is a cool,
plotting, unprincipled scoundrel. He would
sacrifice you, and me, and everybody, in
furtherance of his own schemes of ambition.
He wants this Fanny Moore's fortune ; he

wants a position in society, in order to trample
upon his betters ; — and if he had secured
his ends tomorrow, how should you and I
be treated by him ? We know that ; it is not
necessary to dwell upon it. I have no doubt
myself that he is engaged in this unlawful
organization, though he pretends otherwise ;
of course he does ; such villains are always
double-faced. He wishes to secure the confidence
or friendship of Lord Fairborough,
for the purposes of ambition ; and, hence he
assumes an appearance of attachment to the
British Constitution, and of allegiance to
the Sovereign of these realms. That's all
pretence. He cares nothing for either constitution
or sovereign, but as they are
calculated to promote his selfish designs. I
have reason to believe that he is this moment
endeavouring to influence Lord Fairborough
to interfere, with regard to the arrangements
of some properties in the county ; and that
his lordship has actually written to Lord
Milford in connexion with this matter. What
do you think of that ? Is property, is the
right of property to be canvassed and disturbed
at the instance of a beggarly scoundrel
like this fellow, Granville ? If such things
are permitted, what security have you — what
H 2

security have I — what security lias any man,
that his property will not be tampered with
by every low ruffian who may fancy he has
some claim to it ? These wicked designs
must be nipped in the bud. Now, sir, how is
this base intriguer, this beggarly pretender
to the hand of a woman who should — and
who would, were it not for this vile intriguer
• — feel honoured by your devotion to her —
how is he to be met, and counteracted ?
First, it is not necessary for me to say that
no measures should be kept with such men ;
they should be regarded as a curse, as a
plague-spot, to be swept away as soon as
possible. And again, the most effective course
should be taken to accomplish that end.
What I would suggest is this ; — and I have
thought the matter over, as I have said,
many times, with the view of arriving at
some definite plan to effect the object in
view — now, you can get Peter Mackey to
act in this matter in whatever way you may
think proper. He is intimate with some of the
principal members of the Whitefeet organization
; — I believe you told me that he was
one ; or, at any rate, pretended to be one of
the organization himself. Let him get this
fellow, Jer Grinnex, and his comrades from

Cushport, to arrange an attack on Granville's
house, for the purpose of obtaining fire-arms.
Do you understand ? In that attack, shots
will be exchanged, no doubt; for that base
cub, Granville, will resist, if only to give
himself eclat in the county. Very well, you
understand the rest ; — a stray shot from
Grinnex, or one of the others, may cool the
ardour of his love for Fanny, eh ? and put a
gentle climax to his ambitious aspirations.
That do you say ? "

He rubbed his hands together, with great
apparent glee ; and then, turning round,
slapped the table with his hands, exclaiming,
at the same time, '' Genius is the highest
prerogative of man — what do you say, Whit-more,
my blade?" Then he leant back in
his chah% and laughed immoderately.

Whitmore seemed lost in meditation.
After a little time, however, he said, with a
gravity of expression which sat clumsily upon
his features, —

*' I never thought of that, Croker. But,
do you think it is better than mis plan ? You
see, my plan, if well carried out, would torture
the fellow's soul. He would be alive, to envy
me ; and to feel all the pangs of jealousy and
madness ; and that would be a great luxury

to me. But, according to your plan, it
would scarcely be a triumph, at all. However,
I must take a little time to reflect
upon it."

CHAPTER XX.

THE CAPTAIN HAS HIS EYE TO WINDWARD THE

PLOT DISCOVERED.

After Joe Wliitmore bad delivered himself
of the grave reflection contained in the concluding
part of the last chapter, he and his
companion separated for the night ; but
before separating they agreed to meet again
in the course of a few days for the purpose
of determining upon the line of conduct that
might be considered best under all the circumstances.
By that time Whitmore would
be able to make uyj his mind as to whether
or not he should adopt Croker's plan, or
adhere to his own, or combine the two, or
devise some other that might appear best
calculated to carry out the end in view.

The reader will have borne in mind that
Denny Mullins, the piper, felt a good deal of
anxiety for the return home of the captain

on the night in question. This anxiety was
manifested after Xelly Corcoran had related
the story of the pedlar's ghost appearing in
the form of a goat. Denny then sat closely
ensconced in the chimney-corner of the Glazement,
whilst the wind and rain were careering*
amid the gloom outside. Xelly was unable
to give a satisfactory reply to Denny's question
as to the time when the captain might
return ; in point of fact she was herself as
ignorant upon that subject as Denny himself;
for it was rarely the captain deemed it necessary
to inform her of his business, unless it
was of such a nature as rendered it desirable
that she should be made acquainted with it.
But such was not the case on the present-occasion.
The captain had gone out early
in the day, and had said nothing as to the
business he was intent upon, or the hour at
which his return might be expected. Indeed
he knew nothing of this himself. He had no
particular design in his setting out, and he
had no particular concern as to the hour
when he might come back. It was his
wont to stroll down to the village every day,
at least every day that did not require his
presence at home about the management of his
garden, or of his house, or of anything else

connected with his domestic arrangements.
He did this, that is, he strolled down to the
village every day, for the purpose of seeing
and hearing what was going on there, and of
lending a hand in any work or business that
was going forward among his friends, and
that required his aid, particularly at Ash
Grove and at Brookfield Hall. He was,
moreover, interested, as the reader must be
be aware, in the proceedings of the Whitefeet ;
and he wished to make himself acquainted
with every new revelation connected with
them, in order to prevent, as far as he was
able, any mischief that might arise from
them, especially to his friends. On the present
occasion, then, he walked out early in
the day, and directed his steps, as usual,
towards the village. He visited Brookfield
Hall, where he remained for an hour or so,
and cracked a few jokes with the old steward,
complimented Miss Fanny on her good looks,
as he had chanced to meet her just as she
crossed the avenue, and had a word or two
about the weather with the master of the
mansion, old Mr. Moore, as he was crossing
the courtyard on his way cut. He then
crossed over the fields, and out on the mountain
road, and down towards the Cross. He

went into Moll Dreelin's on his way, and had
a long talk with her, he sitting on a stool
near the fire, and she on a box in the corner
mending her gown. She told him the news,
said that her husband was working at Peter
Mackey's, and that Anty was up at the big
house, that is, Ash Grove House, helping
about the kitchen. But the most important
piece of information, that is to him, which
she gave him, was, that Bartley Croker
passed in his gig through the village a little
bit ago on his ways to Castle Whitmore.
There was no one with him but a servant,
and when he had come to the Cross he
alighted and went into Peter Mackey's. He
hadn't stayed there long when he came out
again accompanied by Peter, who walked
down a bit of the road with him.

The captain listened to all this with a
good deal of interest, for he knew that
Bartley Croker' s movements about that part
of the country did not forebode much good
to some persons at least.

After resting himself for a considerable
time, and after learning all the news that
was of any importance, the captain rose,
and, wishing Moll a good evening, took his
way towards the Cross. He met one or two

persons whom be knew — and whom did he
not know about Balljdine and its neighbourhood
? — and he stopped to talk with them
about the season, and the threatening aspect
of the afternoon, and other matters of equal
interest to country people. The were coming
up from the direction of Castle Whitmore,
and they told him that as they were passing
the gate leading up to the castle who should
they see but Bartley the Devil driving up the
avenue. This was news to the captain, and
so he put it up in a corner of his mind, to
have it to hand when it should be required.
He then wished his friends a good evening,
and proceeded towards the Cross.

Having reached it he paused for a moment,
and then muttering to himself, *' Yes, that'll
do ; I want to buy snuff'* he turned into
Peter Mackey's shop. The captain was not
to say a snuff-taker, but set he carried his
box, and occasionally offered a pinch to a
friend. It was to him a sort of companion,
as well as a pledge of friendship ; it was
even more than that, it was a sort o^ familiar
or attendant spirit, for he conversed with it,
and imbibed inspiration from it when sitting
alone in the Glazement, or rambling among
the glens and hills in silent meditation on

things present, past, and future. He, therefore,
kept his box always by him, and had
it ready for every emergency. So he went
into Peter Mackey's shop to recruit it, not
that it was empty — indeed it was nearly
half-full — but he wished to go in, and he
wished to have an excuse for going in.

While the little boy behind the counter
was measuring the quantity of snuff required,
Peter Mackey, who had heard the voice of
the captain, stepped out from the room
behind the shop, and accosted him with his
usual show of friendship. Having passed a
few ordinary remarks on the weather, and
the appearance of the clouds, he asked the
captain to step in with him and rest himself
awhile. So they went into the room together,
and sat down by the fire, and joked, and
laughed for some time.

At length Peter made allusion to the disturbances
that were taking place in some
parts of the country through the activity
and zeal of the Whitefeet. He approved of
them, and he didn't approve of them, and
he wished to have the captain's opinion
upon the subject. Not but that he already
knew what the captain generally thought
of the new organization and its aims, but

yet lie wished to talk about it, and to sound
Mm.

The captain just glanced along the surface
of the subject, for he, too, wished to sound
Peter.

I have no great belief in them," observed
the captain. '' I am afraid that their ballast
is not well stowed ; and, besides, the rigging
is not of the best, I think ; and as to the
crew, I fear the are not exactly first-class
at steering, or reefing, or any other necessary
work required on board."

This was not veii condemnatory of the
movement, and so it afforded an opening to
Peter to try his hand on the captain.

'' By sing," he observed, " I'm half of your
opinion. The boys are not, as you might
say, perfect knowledgeable in the business ;
but still and all something ought to be done
to serve the poor country. I don't believe
myself that anything worth spain' of can
be done 'till the gentry join in it. I wish
they were all like Master Herbert Granville;
then we'd soon have our rights, and
we'd have no slavery or the like. He is a
noble gentleman, only for he's so poor, and
more is the pity. I wonder does he go out
wit the boys any night ; if he did he'd show

'em low to act, for, you see, lie has the
learning', besides the spirit of the ould stock.
There's nothing' like it, by jingo. But tell
nie, captain, is there anything for certain
about himself and Miss Moore going' to be
married ? "

He asked the question in a low, confidential
tone of voice, bending over towards his
companion at the same time.

The captain pleaded ignorance on the subject,
but, nevertheless, replied with a tone
and manner that were intended to convince
Peter that the captain had so much confidence
in him that he would readily communicate
to him everything he knew, either as
regarded the matter inquired into, or any
other matter whatsoever.

Peter felt all this, but yet he was wary,
and advanced in his inquiries and communications
with slow steps.

Well," he said, " I'd like to see the same
couple married, for, by sing, they look like
two that were made for one another. Miss
Fanny Moore is a noble crater, not more soin
the barony ; and as for Master Herbert,
show me his equal in all Ireland, in mind
and body. That's what I always say. Mr.
Whitmore, they say, is after her too ; but

what chance could such a gommeril (half-foolish
fellow) have near !Master Herbert ?
not a bit, no more than myself. I wonder
will they be married before he goes to seethe
uncle, the ould cornel, in Canada; or
will they put it off till he come back. Likely
they'll put it off. But, maybe, he wouldn't
go at all. Some say Lord Fairborough is
working' hard to get back the property again
for him — the property that Bartley Croker
took from ould Mr. Granville. I wonder is
it three ? By jingo, 'twould be a good deed
if Bartley lost it, after all. They say there
was foul play in it ; but myself don't know
much about it. The ould man, that's Mr.
Granville that was, was careless about
signing', they say ; and so he gave papers for
more than he owed. And now they say Lord
Fairborough is bringing' it to light. And
there's a great deal more said about Bartley
keeping' the rents that the ould gentleman
paid him, and tellin' Lord Milford that he
never received 'em at all. Myself don't
know how it is, by sing. But I'm tellin' you
all I know about it ; since I'd keep nothing'
from you, known' you to be a sensible, knowledgeable
man, that 'ad keep to yourself whatever
I'd tell you. And I'm the same way

wit you. If you touch me about the killing'
of a man, by sing, no man or mortal 'ud
ever know ifc from me. That's the sort I am,
captain."

The captain saw that he was not likely to
obtain from Peter any information that he
had not already been possessed of. However,
he resolved upon a hit ; and having cursorily
replied to the several questions and insinuations
so dexterously thrown out by Peter, he
observed, —

'* Mr. Croker is a clever man, and knows
how to handle the tiller with any boy in the
ship. It will go hard with him if Lord Fair-borough
or any one else go to inward of
him. He is a 'cute man, Mr. Mackey.
And Mr. Whitmore, too, knows the stem from
the stern of a ship. They're very smart,
handy men ; and it wouldn't be easy for you
or me to find out their bearings. If any man
could do it you are that man, Mr. Mackey.
Although, Bartley Croker 'ud try to twist you
and me, and every one else round about to
every point of the compass to serve his own
turn, I am thinking' that he'd find out soon
that you, at any rate, aren't a man to be put
into a strait waistcoat. He makes his boast,
so I am would, that he could make use of

any man lie ever cocked an eye on ; and that
lie could handle you like a top at any hour he
liked. But I always said, 'twas never born
with him to handle Peter Mackey that way.
Well, some people 'ud put their finger in my
eye for saying' so ; but I stand to it, for all
that. And, moreover, I heard people saying'
that Mr. AYhitmore made his boast that he
was able to knock his dealing' thrice out o' yo\i
any day ; but I stood up against that, and
would 'em to their teeth that Whitmore was
never able to handle a rope-yarn with Peter
Mackey of the Cross of Bally dine. I hear a
great deal, Mr. Mackey, among the people,
but I always stand up for you, so I do ; and
why not ? Aren't you one of the old stock
o' the place, and three to the people, Hke all
your family before you. Jot all the same as
some that come among us, and who have
nothing sound in 'em. I wonder how does
Bartley and Whitmore stand now ? "

The captain flung out his line at last. The
reader will notice that he was only removing*
obstructions from his path in all that he had
said up to the last sentence ; but the moment
he said, '' I wonder how does Bartley and
Whitmore stand now ;" he hurled his eye at
Peter, and pierced him to the very soul.

VOL. m. I

Peter, however, bore the question and the
scrutiny well. He was taken a little by surprise,
it is true; the question came suddenly
upon him, while he was intent on pursuing
the winding thread of the captain's observations,
not exactly knowing what they were
leading to ; so he received a slight shock, but
rallied immediately.

There is no doubt that the captain's movement
was exceedingly dexterous ; he m ate
his approaches under cover, and without any
noise; and had he been dealing with an
ordinary man, even with a rogue of ordinary
calibre, he could not have failed in flooring
him. But Peter Mackey was no ordinary
man, he believed himself fully able to cope
with any knave on Irish ground ; and to do
him justice, he came up to the mark, or nearly
so, of his own estimate of himself. We say,
although he was a good deal staggered when
the blow was dealt him, of " I wonder how
does Bartley and Whitmore stand now?"
yet the readiness and adroitness with which
he recovered his level again were worthy of
all praise, at least in the e^^es of men of his
craft. He looked the captain straight in the
face, returning glance foi glance ; then his
eye quivered a little, and he dropped it just on

the toe of one of his feet. Bat it was no
sooner down than up again, and stuck upon
the captain, who watched its movements
carefully speculating on the final result.

The difficulty with Peter lay in this : he
was acquainted with the black designs of
Bartley and Whitmore, nay more, he was a
party to them ; he naturally wished to have
them kept as secret as possible, and any
attempt on the part of anybody to trace them
out he felt it his duty and his interest to foil
at once. Besides this he knew that the captain
was aware of the intimacy subsisting
between himself and the persons alluded to.
Here, then, we may see that when the captain
threw in the question sidelong, " I wonder
how does Bartley and Whitmore stand now?"
he (Mackey) found himself at once hurled
upon a dilemma, and struggling between its
horns. He couldn't dennis intimacy with
Bartley and Whitmore ; and if he were led
away by the insinuations of flattery, or by any
weakness whatever, to let in any light upon
their hellish schemes, he would be at once
captured in his own snares, and committed
to the mercy of the captain. How then to
escape from his difficulty was the cause of the
unsettled condition of his eye. We say it,
I 2

the eye first rushed into the captain's face,
and after settling there for an instant,
bounded to the ground, and perched on the
toe of his (Mackey's) shoe ; but this position
it abandoned after a second, and darted upwards
again, and fixed itself upon Mackey's
nose. Then it hopped to his right shoulder,
and then to his left, and at length it lodged
in vacancy, when he thus began : —

By King, captain, the way it is — and I'm
sure I wouldn't mention it to any one but
yourself, since, between you and me, 'tis
enough for every man to mind his own little
business, bekase why ? You see the times are
not very good, as you might say, though
nothing' to complain of. And for the matter
o' that, a man has no business to mix or
meddle in what doesn't belong to him. The
way 'tis, the gentry and the people dale
in my little shop, and I they to pass every one
in civil ty ; and sure 'tis our duty to pass one
another, as you may say, civil and Christian-like,
glory be to Grod ! But about the gentry,
'isn't our business to mind 'em or meddle
wit 'em when they're cross or contrary to
one another ; or when their blood is up, and
nothing' but duels '11 satisfy 'em. By jingo,
I don't know how 'tis between Mr. Croker and

Mr. Wliitmore ; 'isn't to me or the like of
me they'd tell about their djiiels. Isn't it a
wonder they'd be fighting' with those pistols,
and not have a blow of a fist at one another
like common min ? And so viii heard that
there's a duel to pass 'between 'em? "

The reader will perceive at once the skill
and judgment manifested in this reply of
Peter's. He advances carelessly and loosely,
as if he had seen no point at all in the captain's
question ; but when he comes to a certain
stage in his remarks he discharges his piece
with force and precision, " And so you
heard there's a duel to pass 'between 'em ? "

The captain felt the full effects of the blow,
and the more so that it came unexpectedly
"upon him. He could never have anticipated
such a reply. In point of fact, it was no
answer to his question, but yet it was an
inquiry which evolved itself from that question,
leaving the captain not only in the
position which he had occupied before putting
the interrogatory as regarded information,
but also in the further predicament of being
put upon the defensive.

When the captain put in the blow, " I
wonder how does Bartley and Whitmore
stand now?" he could never have expected

that the reply to his blow would be, " And so
you heard there's a duel to pass 'between
'em?" The captain, as we have said, was
taken aback; or, as he himself said when
talking of it, " he was brought up all
standing." He looked at Peter as a mere
object of curiosity, and without any intention
of replying to him. He saw his eye resting
in apparent quiet beneath his shaggy brow,
which all but covered it, leaving only a small
streak of light glimmering in the very centre.
His great red nose was expanding and contracting
like the nostrils of an over-heated
beast. His mouth was drawn aside towards
his left ear, with a hideous gape, as if his soul
was struggling to escape from that orifice ;
and his two hands pressed convulsively down
upon the bench whereon he sat, one on either
side, as though he were relieving his buttocks
from the piercing of nails or of some sharp
instrument that was stuck in them. The
captain couldn't help smiling, but he made
no reply. After a little time occupied in
eyeing each other, the captain rose, and said
that he must be moving. Peter immediately
relaxing from his state of torture, rose up too,
and asked the captain if he would take a
drink. The captain declined, but Peter continued

to press him, recommending his
'lovely a^e," his 'foaming' ijale Imft,^' and his
splendaceous double X," to his notice. The
captain still declined, and passed on to the
shop-door, where he stood and looked out.
Peter stood by his side commenting upon the
weather, which promised to be stormy,

'Twill be a rough evening," observed the
captain.

'Twill be bad for travelling', I'm thinking,"
said Peter.

'' 'Faith, I'm afraid you'll have to give shelter
to Bartley to-night on his way back,"
rejoined the captain.

Peter started as if he were struck, and then
replied in the flurry of the moment, " Oh,
yes — why — no — who would you ? "

The captain laughed outright at the unguarded
response of Peter, and felt secretly
at a loss to understand how he could possibly
have shown himself so much off his guard,
especially when he had but just a moment
before manifested such impenetrable security.
He wished Peter '' good-bye," and passed
out. He turned, not in the direction of Castle
Whitmore, but off to the right at a considerable
angle from that line. He did this
purposely to elude the vigilance of Peter,

intending, after he bad proceeded some distance,
to cross over the fields and strike
out on the Castle AYhitmore road, that is, the
public road leading to the town of Corrig-
castle, and by the demesne of Castle Whit-more.
As he tripped along he fell into a train
of meditation on the conversation and scenes
of the last hour. He passed before him in
mental review the appearance, language, and
physical contortions of Peter Mackey. He
rested particularly on his hideous and beastly
aspect when he replied to his question, *'I
wonder how does Bartley and Westmoreland
now ? " by the corresponding question,
And so sou heard there's a duel to pass
'between 'em ? " But when he came to review
him at the door, at the time he committed
himself by acknowledging his acquaintance
with Bartley' s movements and intentions on
that day, he became quite puzzled; he felt
wholly incapable of accounting for it. And
that was a wonder, for the captain, though
no physiologist or metaphysician, was, nevertheless,
a shrewd and keen observer of menas
well as of passing events. The fact, however,
was, that Peter having undergone such
a struggle in the room in the endeavour to
escape from the trying question put to him

by the captain, became somewhat exhausted ;
the tension of his mind was so great in
shaping the necessary answer, that after the
extraordinary exertion had passed away, the
mental powers became relaxed ; and hence
when they were tried again, they were found
unequal to a reiterated effort. So that when
the captain said, without one note of warning,
'' Faith, I'm afraid you'll have to give
shelter to Bartley to-night on his way back,"
Peter broke down suddenly, and exhibited
his weakness by the miserable drivel, 'rob,
yes — why — no — who would you ? "

The captain proceeded on his way, thus
entertaining himself with philosophical reflections
on the character of the publican, until
he had reached a turn in the road, at the distance
of about a mile from the Cross. At this
point he turned into the fields, and inclined
towards the Corrigcastle road. In the space
of half an hour he emerged upon this road,
and after advancing upon it for a quarter of
an hour he came to the gate opening upon the
demesne of Castle Whitmore. He passed in
through the gate, and winding to the right
by the wall of the demesne, and under cover
of teens that lined it, he reached a covert
of underwood by the side of a large pond.

and into this lie entered. He seated himself
in the fork of a sycamore-tree, and began to
arrange his thoughts. When he had left the
Glazement in the early part of the day, he
had no particular aim beyond that of learning
any news that might be going the rounds
of the village ; but when he had been informed
by Moll DreeHn that Bartley the
Devil had passed by the Cross, and that he
had been in conversation with Peter Mackey,
the publican, his mind began to work, and
he felt that there was some occupation before
him. He then saw and conversed with Peter,
and he no longer hesitated as to the course he
was bound to adopt under the circumstances.
The leading idea in his mind was that he
should proceed without loss of time to Castle
Whitmore, or, at all events, to that neighbourhood
; and there endeavour to obtain all
the information he could with respect to the
movements of Bartley. Why he became thus
interested in this gentleman's actions the
reader must be already aware, from the fact of
the disreputable character which Bartley had
established for himself in the country round,
and especially from the circumstance of his
being so mixed up with the calamities which
had befallen the Granville family. He was,

therefore, looked upon bj the people generally
as a bird of ill omen, and every eye was
turned upon him whenever he appeared on
the wing. The captain sat on the fork of the
sycamore-tree in order to arrange his thoughts.
The housekeeper at Castle Whitmore was an
old friend of his. Indeed, if the truth must
be told — and it is right that in this instance
it should be told — passages of love had passed
between them in their younger days ; or, as
Xelly Bryan herself — that was her name —
used to say, " many a bar of courting' they
had in their time." He had no doubt upon
his mind that she would do him a service if it
lay in her way, for she never forgot old times,
'' and happy times they were," she often said.
He concluded, therefore, to walk up to the
Castle, and to make his mind known to Nelly
Bryan '' in regard to what was troubling' it
now."

So he left the sycamore tree, and by a
circuitous movement approached he back
premises of the Castle, and made his way to
the servants' quarters. Xelly Bryan was
delighted to see him, as she "ever and.
always was, and would be." He '' should
come now," she said, "and sit in her own
room, and make himself at home ; and

she'd get a nice glass of sometliiii' to warm
him"'

We have said that Joe Whitmore and his
friend Bartlej Croker sat in the library of
Castle Whitmore while discussing the question
as to which would be the best plan of
obtaining the 'hand and heart," if we must
so express it, of Fanny Moore for Mr. Whit-more,
and at the same time of torturing the
bosom of Herbert Granville. This room was
situated in the front of the Castle, that is, on
that side of it which looked out upon the
avenue leading to the main entrance, and
was up one pair of stairs. Behind this was
another smaller room, which was entered by
a door on the right of the landing at the
entrance of the library. This was the housekeeper's
room, where she used to make her
friends snug, when any of them visited her,
and that Alas pretty often, especially of a
Sunday. It was plainly but comfortably furnished
; and for its better accommodation, it
was furnished with a buffet, or closet, which
contained, besides the '' tay-things," a bottle
or two of '' choicest spirits," and a " nice
decanter of port wine for the ladies." This
closet stood in the partition wall between the
room and the Hbrarv ; in fact, it had been

once a door, communicating between the two
rooms, but it was afterwards closed up and
converted into a closet, as we have seen.
The back of this closet consisted of a single
board only, which was painted dark hie on
the side of the library, but was covered with
old newspapers on the other side. It maybe
easily conceived that a person standing
inside this closet might easily overhear any
conversation that was carried on in the
library.

When the captain had arrived at the
Castle, the dinner was over, and the gentlemen
had retired to the library, that is, the
two gentlemen with whom we are concerned ;
the other gentleman or two having gone
home. The housekeeper was therefore at
leisure to enjoy herself, and to make much of
her friend ; and so, after a short chat in the
servants' hall, she and the captain retired to
her own room to spend an hour there in
'peace and quiet." The captain, of course,
unburdened himself to his friend shortly after
he had taken his seat in the snug armchair
beside the cosy fire. He told her all he
wanted to tell her as to his apprehensions
regarding Bartley. She was already aware
of much, indeed almost of everything connected

T\'itli his character and proceedings ;
and she was also aware of her own master's
penchant for Miss Moore. So the captain
hadn't much trouble in putting her in possession
of everything that was then occupying
his mind with respect to these matters.
She made him " a nice little warm drop, to
comfort him after his walk ;" and she filled
herself a small glass of the port wine, with a
little deeply drop of hot water in it, and a
bit of loaf sugar. They talked on about old
times, and how those were better than the
present times — '' indeed, 'isn't the one day
they ought to be compared." And then the
captain threw in a sly hint of former feeling,
and said how the '' heart that was once
touched, never forgets answering to its
helm," and so on, until Nelly Bryan — her
face was naturally red and her eyes soft —
glowed very much about the cheeks and
neck, and melted charmingly about the eyes.
She now began to fear that they might be
heard talking, though it was difficult to perceive
whence the apprehension could arise,
as the room door, as well as the door of the
closet, was closed, and there was no other
aperture through which sounds could escape,
even if there were any persons outside trying

to catch them, as there were not. At all
events, lie said, *' maybe, we might be
heard;" and, as she said it, she drew over
closer to the captain, and putting her face
nearer to his, began to talk in a soft, low
voice. The captain, following suit, dropped
his voice too, and spoke soft and low. And
the housekeeper put her hand on the captain's
knee — she should do this in order to
ease her bent posture — and the captain put
his hand upon her hand, and began to count
her fingers.

At length she stood up, and opened the
closet door, and listened. She became apparently
interested, for she continued to listen
for at least ten minutes before she stirred
from her position, her ear being all the time
inserted between two plates which stood upright
against the back of the closet. At the
end of ten minutes she returned to the captain,
and whispered something into his ear,
as though she feared that the air would hear
what she had to say. The captain then
stood up, and went into the closet, and put
his ear to the back of it, and he soon became
very interested, too. He just caught Bartley' s
speech as he was developing his plan for
achieves: success in the case of Whitmore

and Miss Moore, by the destruction of his
(Whitmore's) rival, Herbert Granville. The
captain listened with breathless attention
until Bartley concluded his speech with that
remarkable peroration — which he rounded off
with a rap of his clenched hand on the table
'' Genius is the highest prerogative of
man ! what do you say, Whitmore, my
blade ?" The captain then withdrew his ear
from the wall, in order to straighten himself
and breathe a little freely. But he was too
anxious to catch every syllable that might
be dropped inside in the library, to keep his
ear long from the wall. So he applied it
again, and kept it there, notwithstanding the
housekeeper's earnest entreaties to " come
and sit by the fire, and not be perishing himself
there." But he heard nothing further
of any importance.

Soon after Bartley Croker left, and the
captain had no further business in the closet.
He therefore resumed his seat at the fire, and
after about half an hour's friendly and confidential
conversation with the housekeeper, he
took his leave of her ; but in doing so his
head happened to come in contact with hers,
and he couldn't help just touching her lips
with his, for the sake of old times.

CHAPTER XXL

HERBERT GRANVILLE PREPARES TO JOIN HIS

UNCLE IN CANADA VARIOUS COUNCILS HELD,

AND VARIOUS OPINIONS OFFERED IN Consequence.


It was now some time since the AsTi Grove
family had received a letter, or any intelligence
from Colonel Brown; and they began to
grow uneasy on that account. Uncle Ben
could not make out the cause that influenced
his brother Felix in maintaining so long a
silence, and felt greatly puzzled about it.
Mrs. Granville thought that perhaps he was
sick ; and people who are afflicted in that
way do not generally care to trouble themselves
about writing ; though still she knew
that it would not be the case with herself,
for she always liked to acquaint the various
members of her family with any illness, or
other calamity that might befall herself or

VOL. ITT. K

any one of her household. Miss Juha
Granville supposed that her uncle Felix was
getting careless in consequence of his old
age ; for she thought that old people found
it difficult and troublesome to be writing
letters. But then, on the other hand, he
might employ an amanuensis, unless he was
unwilling to commit private family affairs to
the secrecy of a stranger. Herbert, however,
feared that his uncle was huffed inconsequence
of his own procrastination ; for
he had more than once told him in his letters
that he would join him shortly. He failed
to fulfil his promise, however, in consequence
of the appointments which Lord Fairborough
had spoken to him, but which had not returned
up. His lordship might have got
him one in Australia, or India, but then he
preferred it in Canada, chiefly on account of
his uncle residing there ; but also on account
of the superior advantages of that country,
arising from climate, soil, geographical position,
and the character of its inhabitants.
His uncle was not aware of this cause of
delay, though he (Herbert) had mentioned,
in one of his recent letters to him, the kindness
and generosity with which Lord Fair-borough
was endeavouring to promote his

views, bj obtaining for him an appointment
in Canada. He therefore felt very uneasy
about his uncle's silence; and determined to
set out, without further delay, and join him.
Uncle Ben shrugged his shoulders ; and did
not at all seem satisfied with bis nephew's
decision. Mrs. Granville and Julia were
equally dissatisfied. But yet they were all
unwilling to throw any obstacle in the way
of Herbert's prospects. They were unanimous
on one point, namely, that he should
call upon Lord Fairborough, and acquaint
him with the state of things, and with the
resolution he had formed; and that he should
also see the Rev. Dr. Markham and Sir
Michael Carey, his particular friends, on the
same subject. Herbert concurred in the propriety
of this proceeding, and also of modifying
his own opinions in accordance with their
views. He accordingly called first upon
lord Fairborough, who became very grave
and thoughtful as soon as he was informed
of the decision of his young friend. His
lordship spoke a good deal upon the subject,
viewing it from all points ; but at length
concluded by saying that it could not, at all
events, do any harm that Herbert should
visit his uncle ; that he himself would not, in
K 2

the meantime, relax this efforts to serve him
in the way he thought best; and that if anything
should turn up in accordance with his
views, he would communicate it to him in
Canada. This was satisfactory, inasmuch
as it enabled Herbert to act upon his own
decision without incurring the risk of losing
any advantages which Lord Fairborough's
interest might procure for him.

He then called upon the Eev. Dr. Markham.
The doctor expressed his great regret at his
young friend's decision, and said that he
ought to pause before carrying it into effect.
He did not like to see any of his parishioners
going away, particularly persons of education
and character, like Herbert. Such persons
should remain in their own country to
strengthen and adorn it. He understood
very well, that for a certain class of persons
emigration was desirable, for agricultural
labourers, for instance, or for mechanics, or
for small farmers with a little capital ; but
as to gentlemen of a liberal education, and
of character and family, he could not see the
advisability of their emigrating. They were
not fit for the colonies; and the colonies
were not fit for them. It might possibly
happen, in some cases, that such persons

would succeed; but those cases must be
necessarily rare. The colonies required
physical labour, and little else. Education,
talent, character, family, all were thrown
away in the colonies. At least, this was his
view of the matter ; and, therefore, he could
not advise his young friend to emigrate.
But then he might go and see his uncle, and
return again; that was another thing. He
shouldn't dissuade him from that. What he
was opposed to was his settling down in a
colony, and expending himself in it. That
would be preposterous.

Herbert was rather pleased with the
doctor's views, for they accorded with his
own feelings ; and they also squared in a
great measure with the ideas expressed by
Lord Fairborough. His decision, therefore,
was not shaken. He next paid his visit to
Sir Michael Carey ; and laid his plans open
to that gentleman. Sir Michael knew a good
deal about the colonies, and had always
taken an interest in their advancement. He
was particularly taken with the promising
aspect of Canada. He called it a noble
country ; and prophesied that it would yet
hold a position not inferior to any country
in the world. Its lands were capable of

maintaining as large a population as the
whole of Europe ; and its climate was unexceptionable.
It would be, in the course
of time, the grand receptacle of the overflowing
population of these British isles ; and of
a great portion of that of the other countries
of Europe. Its situation, its extent, its
fertility, ay, and its climate, were all favourable
to this view. He encouraged his young
friend to go there ; and said that if he were
a young man himself, he would prefer it as a
place of residence to any country he knew
of. At the same time he could not conceal
from himself the regret he should feel at
the absence of his friend ; but yet this regret
would be modified by the reflection that he
(Herbert) would be placed in a position which
could not fail to advance his interests and
secure his happiness.

This representation of Canada and of its
future prospects gave a spring to Herbert's
spirits, which caused him to cling more
ardently than ever to the decision which he
had taken. The family at Ash Grove discussed
the various opinions which had thus
been offered, each regarding them in the light
which accorded best with his or her private
views and feelings. Uncle Ben was rather

inclined to the opinion of Lord Fairboroiigli,
because, while it favoured a visit, on the part
of Herbert, to brother Felix, it did not imply
a perpetual residence in Canada. The fact
was, as regarded Uncle Ben, he would wish
that both brother Felix and Herbert were
settled in Ireland, and just in that portion of
Ireland where he could visit them every day,
and talk to them about hounds, and horses,
and coveys of partridge. His opinion was
entirely shaped in accordance with that one
idea. Prosperity in Canada was a matter of
no importance to him ; they might be as rich
as Croesus there, or as exalted as the sovereign
of Britain, for what he thought or cared ;
but their presence in his own house, or, at
all events, in his own neighbourhood, was
the great thing with him. Indeed, he never
approved of the step taken by brother Felix
in going to live in Canada; he couldn't see
what he did it for, or what was to come out
of it. Xo man in his senses would do it, he
thought. And the sooner he left it, and
came to live among his own, where everything
was Christian-ike and natural, the sooner
he would show himself a man of commonsense
and of proper spirit.

Such was the channel in which ran the

thoughts of Uncle Ben. Mrs. Granville
nearly agreed with him, but not entirely.
She saw nothing unwise or unworthy in
Felix's going to Canada, because he went
there for the purpose of taking possession of
a large tract of land offered to him by the
Government ; but she thought that he should
have sold that, and then returned home.
This was her view of the matter ; and she
always told her brother so in all her letters
to him. What did he want to remain therefor,
she should like to know. He was
unmarried, and had no one to look after
him either in health or in sickness. He
must be very wretched, she thought ; and
this idea was ever present to her mind, and
gave her a great deal of uneasiness. Julia
thought, with the E-ev. Dr. Markham, that a
colony was not a nice place for a gentleman
to live in. She should like dearly, though,
to visit her Uncle Felix, with Herbert ; and
then to return after a few months. This
would be pleasant, she thought, unless the
travelling by water should make it disagreeable.
She did not think that she should
like to be in a ship; she never was in one;
and the appearance of it, rocking upon the
water, always made her feel uncomfortable

when she thought of Herbert being in it.
She was very confident, though, that Lord
Fairborough would not encourage Herbert todo
anything that was not right; and this
thought reconciled her in a great degree to
the idea of her brother going away for a short
time. She held Sir Michael Carey in high
estimation ; and his opinion had great weight
with her; but this was owing to his great
knowledge of the colonies, as well as to his
character for good sense and a kindly disposition,
for which he was so much esteemed
by all who knew him. Still, notwithstanding
all this, she rather feared that he was an
enthusiast on the colonies ; and that he
might, in the present instance, be mistaken.
Altogether she could not reconcile herself to
the idea of her brother going away, unless
on one condition, which was that she should
herself accompany him. So that, looking
at the state of things from every point of
view, it was evident to any impartial observer,
that the family at Ash Grove was not of one
accord as to the advisability of Herbert's
emigration. All that could be fairly assumed
was, that a short visit to Uncle Felix would
meet with no serious objection from any of
the family.

However, it soon went abroad in the
village and nei^'libourliood that Mr. Herbert
Granville was about to set out for Canada
to visit his uncle. Some said that he intended
to settle there for ever, as his uncle,
the colonel, had settled all his property upon
him on that sole condition ; and that he was
taking Miss Moore with him. With regard
to Miss Moore herself there was a considerable
divergency of opinion ; for some said that
she was to be married to him before they
left ; some others, that she was not to be
married until they arrived in Canada, and
obtained the colonel's consent ; and there
was a third party, and it was a strong and
confident party too, who maintained that
they were already married, and that the
colonel was aware of it, and even pleased
with it. These were the chief representatives
of opinion upon that particular point; but
there were thin streaks of opinion, or rather
of conjecture, which is about the same thing,
running between those various opinions, like
small stripes between wide bars, on a piece
of printed cotton. One of these was that
he wouldn't marry her at all, because she
was not of sufficiently high blood for him.
Another was, that she wouldn't marry him,

because lie was in love with Joe Whitmore.
And another, that Herbert looked forward to
a matrimonial alliance with the family of
Lord Fairborough; and that that was the
reason why his lordship took such an interest
in his fortunes.

We shall mention only one other conjecture,
and it was held with great tenacity,
and an amount of plausibility which it was
almost impossible to resist ; it was to this
effect, that Sir Michael Carey intended to
bestow one of his daughters upon Herbert —
in fact, that he had already proposed the
matter to him, and that Herbert had assented.
In corroboration of this, it was
asserted that Sir Michael and his whole
family were going out to Canada, for the
purpose of establishing themselves there;
so that nothing could be better adapted to
meet all the exigencies of the case: — the
remaining portion of the Granville family
were to follow, including Uncle Ben.

But amid this rainbow variety of public
opinion, there were two persons at least who
were not misled ; and who, therefore, relaxed
nothing in their exertions to effect their own
particular purposes ; these were Joe Whit-more
and Battle Croker. Joe knew but too

well that Miss Moore was not in love with
him ; and not only that, but he further knew
to his utter despair and madness, that she
and Herbert Granville were in love with each
other : he knew these two facts ; and he
cared not for any other news. Bartley
Croker, too, with the shrewdness which accompanied
his innate villainy, was thoroughly
satisfied that Herbert Granville was not a
man to waver in the pursuit of any laudable
object, or to permit a stain of dishonour to
settle upon his escutcheon. He knew besides,
that Lord Fairborough was in communication
with Lord Milford on the subject of
the property held for centuries by the Granville
family under the latter nobleman and
his family, but wrested from Herbert's father
through his (Bartley's) own fraudulent and
swindling conduct. This he knew; and it
was this that goaded him on to the destruction
of Herbert, if he could only accomplish
his fell purpose through any possible instrumentality,
no matter how high or how low, orin
what manner or form.

There was a third person, too, who knew
that the reports afloat in connexion with
Herbert's decision to join his uncle in
Canada were ill-founded ; and that person

was Peter Mackey, the publican at the Cross.
He was cognizant of all the villainous designs
of AYhitmore and of Croker ; and his own
personal interests induced him to furnish
himself with all possible information respecting
the intentions and movements of Herbert
Granville. Peter, as the] reader is aware,
was a selfish and avaricious villain. Like
most persons of this character, there Alas in
his composition a prying and inquisitive vein
which kept him constantly on the alert in
the endeavour to discover everything that
was occurring or likely to occur in the families
around him. Like all scandal-hunters he
was frequently imposed upon by persons
who wished to put him on the wrong scent,
knowing the baseness of his^character, and
detesting him accordingly ; but still, he generally
succeeded in ferreting out such information
as was essential to his dark and
treacherous designs. He knew everything,
almost, connected with the movements of
Herbert ; he was aware of his] attachment to
Miss Moore; he was cognizant of his intention
to join his uncle in Canada ; he was
aware of his aim to get back his father's
property from Bartley Croker, through the
exertions of Lord Fairborough : he knew all

these things well; but he never pretended
to this knowledge to anybody but to Joe
Whitmore and to Bartley Broker. To these
he communicated whatever he discovered in
reference to these points ; but he also took
care, at the same time, to mix up this information
with as much falsehood as he deemed
necessary to arouse their hopes or fears, as
the case might be. In short, Peter was nota
tittle inferior in villainy to Bartley himself ;
while, as he sometimes insinuated, he could
twist Joe "Whitmore on his little finger, since
he was no more than a gom (a dribbling
fool). So, when Peter thought it would
suit his purpose he was prepared to inform
Bartley or Whitmore that Herbert was a
member of the Whitefeet organization for
he "made it out, when no other man could."
In fact, Peter, knowing the deep feeling of
hatred which both these gentlemen entertained
for Herbert, never ceased inventing
lies of one kind or other about him, to suit
the hour and the occasion.

In the present state of opinion, as regarded
the intentions and movements of Herbert,
Peter was very active, sometimes inclining
to one opinion, and sometimes to another,
and sometimes inventing an opinion, and

putting it on the wing. He visited Bartley
at his residence at Gurtroo, one very dark
night about this time. He was armed cap-a-pie
to encounter him. The two scoundrels
understood each other well ; but being of
mutual advantage one to the other, the had
to disguise their feelings, and assume a
friendship and a confidence of the most
ardent and unshaken kind. Peter spoke of
the different opinions that were abroad, that
is, of the opinions which he had himself
forged, with a thin sprinkling of the actual
reports.

'' There's no time to be lost, by jingo," he
said ; " for 'tis known for certain that he
(Herbert) is going' straight to Lunnun (London)
to see Lord Milford himself, wit strong
letters in his pocket from Lord Fairborough.
That's what's said now; and 'tis three, for I
heard it, by sing, in a way that no mortal
man could find out but myself. And another
thing that's said is, that when he'll come
from Lunnun he'll be agent over all Lord
Milford's estates, in this and every other
county they're lying' in. There's no mistake
at all about that. And besides, when he'll
come back he'll not mind marrying' at all.
Myself don't know how Mr. Whitmore will

like it ; but 'tis said for certain that Miss
Moore and Herbert Granville are separated
for ever, by consent of both. Oh, that's as
three as you're there. I hioio it. So Mr.
"Whitmore '11 have no trouble at all in getting'
lier now."

He threw his eye slyly across at Bartley,
to mark how he took the news, as he called
this own lying invention.

Bartley looked, or pretended to look, troubled;
as if he saw a chance of losing the
co-operation of Whitmore in his designs on
the life of Herbert ; and Peter saw, or
thought lie saw, that he hit his mark. He,
therefore, said no more ; for, as he observed,
when he related the circumstance to Jer
Grinned a day or two afterwards, *' I thought
it a pity to spile the stroke, by sing." The
truth is, that Bartley did not believe one
word of all that Peter had told him ; but, as
we have said, he iDretencled to be troubled
about it, in order to deceive Peter and throw
him off his guard. Bartley knew precisely
how far he had to fear the interference of
Lord Fairborough ; he knew well that his
lordship had not interfered at all in Lord
Milford's private arrangements, and that it
was not at all likely he would do so. It was

not fear, so much as hatred, that influenced
Bartley; though there is no doubt that a
certain fear was mixed with his hatred ; a
fear, however, which did not proceed from
any apprehension that Lord Fairborough
would meddle with the affairs of Lord Milford's
estates ; but from the consciousness
that he had inflicted a great injury upon
Herbert, which injury might, in some way or
other, be discovered and avenged. In one
word, he injured Herbert, and he therefore
hated him. So that when Peter Mackey
chuckled at the idea of having made a good
sthrolce^ as he called his lying story, he was
only deceiving himself. And he was equally
deceiving himself when he fancied that the
story of a separation having taken place
between Herbert and Miss Moore would
influence the action of Bartley. Bartley did
not believe one word of this either. In fact,
he believed nothing of all that which Peter
had told him. He said at once the channel
in which Peter's mind was running ; which
was simply to rouse him (Bartley) to immediate
action against the life of Herbert, and
thereby to promote the views of Joe Whit-more
without exposing the latter gentleman
to any danger arising from a participation in

VOL. III. L

such action. Bartlej, therefore, pretended to
be troubled, in order to carry out his own
plan of inveighing Joe Whitmore into the
perpetration of the deed which he felt so
anxious to see accomplished, that is, the
removal of Herbert Granville from his path,
either by fair or foul means. Bartley having
now, by his ]fret ended uneasiness, thrown
Peter off his guard, commenced to ply him
as follows, —

'' I must say, Mr. Mackey, that this news
disturbs me very much. I cannot entertain
a doubt that you have been thoroughly
informed ; and therefore I consider it necessary
not to lose a moment in guarding myself
against any probable danger that may arise
from the circumstances you have mentioned.
It strikes me now that I should lose no time
in determining' on the best course to be
adopted in this emergency. My first idea is,
to proceed immediately to London, and have
an interview with my Lord Milford. I shall
then inform myself correctly of every thing-touching
that portion of your information
which has respect to Lord Fairborough's
intermeddling with my Lord Milford' s affairs ;
and as to the other matter — I mean that
which relates to Herbert Granville and Miss

Moore — it doesn't concern me. But, as I
apprehend that my Lord Milford will not be
found in London at the present moment, I
shall, very probably, have to proceed to the
Continent ; and this will take me a considerable
time before I shall be able to be back
here again — not unlikely six months, or
more. So that by that time Herbert Granville
and Miss Moore will have had ample
space and opportunity to settle their little
differences, whatever they may be ; or failing
this, Mr. Whitmore will be, perhaps, in a
position to claim her as his own."

Peter Mackey looked a little chops alien,
his eye fell, and his tongue swept round his
upper lip, as he laboured in thought. He
felt that the victory he had calculated upon
only a few seconds before was in danger of
being lost. His tongue went round and
round his lip ; and still he failed to evolve
anything from his mind that was calculated
to meet the crisis. If Bartley should go, and
remain away six months, it was difficult to
say what turn things might take. One thing
only appeared certain to him in such an
event, and it was this, that he himself would
be left alone with Joe Whitmore to manage
matters which required the utmost skill and
L 2

daring of the most unscrupulous and most
practised villain. He did not like this idea.
Although he was not at all doubtful as to the
amount of the bribe which he would be able
to command from Whitmore, jet he did not
feel so safe in acting alone with Whitmore,
as if he had the co-operation of Barfclej.
Whitmore would act, he was aware ; but then
Whitmore was not a man to be relied upon,
in point of sagacity or skill. Besides this,
Peter expected a trifle from Bartley, in
addition to the bribe he knew he would be
able to extort from Whitmore. So that,
taking everything into consideration, the
idea of Bartley' s absence from the scene of
action was grating to the sensibility of Peter
Mackey. His tongue still went round and
round his upper lip, and his eyes remained
half closed. He appeared to be nonplussed.
Bartley seemed to enjoy his discomfiture, for
he eyed him keenly, whilst a grin of the most
savage description settled in one corner of
his mouth.

At length a bright idea seemed to flash
across Peter's mind, for the tongue was
drawn in, and the eyes opened gradually, and
rested upon the crown of Bartley 's head.
He saw the only chance now was io hasten

the catastrophe as much as possible ; that is,
to bring about the attack upon Herbert's Swithin
the briefest space consistent with due
and careful preparation. Keeping this idea
in view, he observed, —

*' What I was thinking' of, Mr. Croker, was
as this ; that 'tis hard to believe everything
a body hears these times — God help us ! — the
people are given' to lies in such a way now,
that, by sing, 'isn't easy to know what to
believe, and what not to believe. Maybe,
after all, there's not much truth about Lord
Fairborough bothering' himself at all about
Lord Milford's estates. How the Jericho
could any one know one way or t'other?
What I suspects now is as this," — and here his
eyes began to twinkle with a lurid glare —
*' that some people would like to have you go
away, so as to let young Granville have full
scope to make his own plans without any one
to spile (spoil) 'em on him. That's what I
suspects. And now, Mr. Croker, are you the
man to allow a brat of a pretender to cross
your path, without putting' your heel on his
nick?"

He started to his leofs as he beo^an to utter
these last words, and walked up and down
the floor, brandishing one of his arms, the

other arm being plunged into the waistband
of his breeches. After concluding, he stood
before Bartlej, and threw his eyes with a
fierce glare into his face. Bartley never
shrunk for a second, but bore the assault
with all the cool and rigid indifference of his
nature. After a brief space he quietly observed,
—

As to crossing my path, I care very
little about that. He can do me no harm —
not the least. It is my friend, and your
friend, Mr. Whitmore, for whom I feel concerned.
We all know that Mr. Whitmore is
a man of probity and of high honour ; that
he abhors everything low and mean — in
short, Mackey, Mr. Whitmore is a Christian
gentleman. Very well, when a man is a
good Christian, like our friend; when he
fears God and obeys His laws, and when his
mind is fixed upon the eternal salvation of
his soul, his views and interests ought to obtain
the support of every good man. It is
for the interests of society that it should be
so. On that account, therefore, you and I
concern ourselves about the personal matters
of Mr. Whitmore. We are not ourselves
personally interested; the utmost that can
be said in that respect is, that we participate

in the general advantages of society, and so
to that extent we are of course interested,
but no farther. You understand me, Mr.
Mackay'. Now I would urge upon sou to see
Mr. Whitmore. and to use all your influence
with him — for I know you possess influence
with him, and very naturally, on account of
your superior intelligence and your Christian
morals — to lose no time in maturing any
plan that he may determine upon for the
benefit of society. These troublous times,
my dear Mackey, admit of no delay on the
part of those who desire the stability of the
British empire, and the general peace and
welfare of society. Those Whitefeet must
be arrested in their dangerous machinations
I mean, of course, the leaders of them —
you understand me ; the dupes of these men
it is impossible to blame very much ; poor
creatures, they know not what they do. But
such men as Granville — you understand me
they are a pest, sir; they are a pest that
should be removed radically — yes, radically,
my dear Mackey, radicals'

As he thus spoke, he rose ; and taking
Peter Mackey gently by the coat-collar, ho
breathed a very gentle breath into his ear ;
and the breath bore these words : *' See to it,

my dear fellow ; see to it. Delays are
dangerous."

Peter scarcely knew what lie should do.
He saw clearly enough that further conversation
at that time would profit nothing, and
therefore he resolved to take his departure,
leaving it to future reflection to strike out a
new plan of action. He accordingly wished
Bartley a good-bye, assuring him in the most
earnest and energetic manner that he would
be always his three friend.

CHAPTER XXII.

«

GENERAL DOHERTY IS PUT IN MOTION — A PLAN
OF ATTACK IN TWO DIVISIONS.

It was now generally known throughout
Bally dine and the neighbourhood all round,
that Herbert Granville was about proceeding
to Canada to join his uncle Felix; and, as
we have seen, people were variously affected
by the intelligence. Joe Whitmore was immerged
in doubt as to the precise part which
Fanny Moore was disposed to act, or would
be compelled to act, on this occasion. He
heard that she had no intention of getting
married to Herbert, and of accompanying
him to Canada ; but he had no idea as to her
or his ultimate views with regard to marriage.
Some persons told him that they were engaged
to be married upon his return from
Canada, which would be in a brief period;
and others informed him that they had been

already secretly married, and that it was her
intention to join him in Canada in the course
of a few months. This latter intelligence,
however, he disregarded upon the assurance
of her mother as well as of her aunt, Mrs.
Credan. His great object, therefore, was to
prevent their being united at any future
time ; and to accomplish this he directed all
his energies, calling in the assistance of his
ingenious friends, Bartley Croker and Peter
Mackey. We have seen how these two last-named
gentlemen were endeavouring to overreach
each other, and to shift the responsibility
of their portions of the drama from the
shoulders of the one to those of the other.
Bartley was anxious for the destruction of
Herbert, but wished to avoid, b}^ all possible
means, his being identified as participating
in the act. Peter Mackey, on the other
hand, was desirous of placing Bartley in the
foreground, and thereby covering himself
from view, while he clutched the double
bribe — one from Bartley, the other from
Whitmore. His intention was to use Jer
Grinned in the conduct of the business, by
placing him under the patronage of Bartley,
and thus securing himself against the consequences
of a miscarriage. Joe Whitmore,

however, lead not yet given up his favourite
plan of a forcible abduction, and was only
waiting to see how events might develop
themselves from day to day.

Fanny Moore was greatly affected when
Herbert broke to her his final decision to join
his uncle, though she was somewhat prepared
for it from their former frequent conversations
on the subject. On this occasion they
were sitting in the summer-house of the
garden at Ash Grove, after he had returned
from his visit to Sir Michael Carey, which
we mentioned in a former chapter. He told
her where he had been, and detailed to her
everything that had occurred at the interview,
as also at the other interviews with
Lord Fairborough and the Rev. Dr. Markham.
She listened to him with a sad and
pale countenance, occasionally putting her
pocket-handkerchief to her eyes, and wiping
away the tears which were silently rolling-down
her cheeks. After he had concluded,
her fortitude abandoned her, and she flung
herself upon his bosom, throwing her arms
around his neck, and bursting into a loud
cry. He soothed her with all the endearing
tenderness prompted by his deep love for
her, and endeavoured to rouse her from her

dejection, by assuming a cheerfulness which
he but little felt, and by referring to the very
brief interval that was to intervene before
his return. After a little time she became
composed, and expressed herself as being
prepared to endure anything for his sake.

"Dear Herbert," she said, " I cannot help
feeling, not so much for myself as for you.
I shall be safe, and — " she was going to
say '* happy," but she could not belie her
heart, so she substituted '' resigned." '* I
shall be safe and resigned at home ; but you
will be exposed to the dangers of the ocean,
without a friend to cheer you ; without any
of the comforts to which you bave been accustomed.
And then, when you arrive in a
strange land, your days will be lonely ; and
you will be thinking, with a sad heart, of
those whom you left behind you, and who
would be so happy — oh, how happy — to be at
your side, and to cheer your solitary hours."

Here she burst into tears again, and bent
her head upon his bosom. He, too, was deeply
affected, and wiped away the tears from his
eyes more than once while she spoke. He said,
after a while, " I trust, my dear Fanny, that
you will not permit yourself to indulge in any
gloomy forebodings while I am away from you.

Remember that I am yours ; and tliougli I
am obliged to part from viii for a time, I
shall again return to you with redoubled
affection, and we shall be happy together forever.
The time of our separation shall not
be long, for I am resolved to return after I
have spent a few months with my uncle, no
matter what may arise. If he should insist
upon my ultimately settling in Canada, I shall
at all events return, and take you back therewith
me, after we shall have been married
here. So there is no reason why either of us
should feel disheartened ; on the contrary, we
should feel comforted from the consciousness
of our mutual love, and in the prospect of a
life which my heart tells me will be one of
pure and unalloyed happiness. After all, we
could not have expected to have our path in
this life clear of obstruction from beginning;
to end. To suffer is inseparable from human
existence. And those who pass through this
condition in the early part of life are better
prepared to meet the vicissitudes which may
arise in its succeeding stages. At least, let
us hope for the best. I cannot, at the same
time, conceal from you, or from myself, the
feeling of loneliness which oppresses me when
I think of being separated from you, even fora

short time ; but then we must be brave.
Yes, to use jour own expression, so often
addressed by you to me on other occasions,
we must he brave. I know you will always
think of me when I am away ; but let me
request of you to mingle those thoughts of me
with the bright hope of our meeting again in
joy and happiness. In this way our separation
will be relieved of the sadness which
would otherwise hang around it, and the hours
and days will pass away in the sunlight of
peace and hope. I shall write to you the
moment I shall have landed in Canada, and
shall continue to do so at every opportunity.
I shall expect you to do the same. So you
see, my sweet little woman," — here he patted
her playfully on the cheek — '' we shall not be
altogether miserable while away from each
other's society. But, by-the-bye, I have no
doubt that you will sometimes be obliged to
hear some evil things said of me while I am
away. But do not be troubled on that
account. You know that this is one of the
things we sometimes have to endure in this
life. Indeed, it could not be otherwise, unless we
were to suppose that there is no evil on earth.
But we cannot deceive ourselves by any supposition
of that sort. Let us — if we may use
the divine name of our Saviour without irreverence

vrheii speaking of ourselves — let us
always remember that He suffered the stings
of the evil tongue during His short sojourn
here ; and let us not forget, either, that His
chosen successors shared a similar fate. It
matters little what may be said of us ii the
way of reproach by evil-minded persons ; our
safeguard, our consolation, and our antidote
lie in our consciousness of rectitude. You
will not, therefore, mind what evil they may
speak of me. Some will speak kindly of me,
I have no doubt, and to these your ears will
be turned with gladness. You see there is no
evil without its antidote. Well ; I am
fatiguing you now. We shall have other
opportunities of telling our thoughts to each
other before I go. So we shall now speak of
something: else. Let us walk through the
garden."

Such was the manner in which Fanny
Moore received the account of Herbert's
intended departure from Herbert's own
lips. Her feelings were deeply affected ; she
was sad and sorrowful. But not so did she
bear herself when, some days afterwards the
subject was brought under her notice by her
mother and her aunt, Mrs. Credan. They
wished to probe her feelings with reference
to Herbert, and to turn her attention away

from him altogether, by representing any
friendship, as they expressed it, which she
might have felt towards him, in the light of
a childish fancy.

Mrs. C redan said, '' Now, my dear Fanny,
you must allow me to be a judge in these
matters ; I have been a girl once like yourself,
and I had my fancies, too, like you. But
these things jDass away with our years ; and
you will be surprised, in the course of time,
at your own folly in pursuing mere shadows.
No, my dear, you must look to the substance
of things, and doubt your own judgment when
you are troubled with fancies. To be sure,
no one questions that Mr. Granville is a very
proper man, of good presence and ancient
family, and all that ; but you must know —
and you will hereafter discover — that these
mere outside attractions are not what constitute
our happiness in this world. As I have
said, you must learn to doubt yourself, and
be guided by the experience of those who
know the world, and who know what is best
for you. Your father and mother are the
persons most interested in your welfare ; and
I am sure you will allow that next to them
I feel the deepest interest in your happiness.
Well, we are all opposed to your throwing

your life away upon a person like Mr. Granville,
who has no means of making you comfortable,
or of giving you that position in
society to which your birth and your family
entitle you. You ought, my clear, to attend
to what our experience points out to you as
the most desirable course to follow." In this
strain she continued for some time, while
Fanny listened with respectful attention, but
with an evident disapproval of the advice
tendered by her aunt. Mrs. Moore followed
up the same line of observation, and endeavoured
to win over the mind of her daughter
to a calm and rational view of what her best
friends considered her true interest. But
although Fanny was respectful in her attention
to all that was urged both by her aunt
and her mother, her feelings remained wholly
unmoved by all that they said. She felt not
the slightest inclination in favour of their
views ; nor was the deep spring of her affection
for Herbert Granville in the slightest
degree disturbed by their representations.
At the same time, she was unwilling to unveil
the sanctuary of her heart to the profane gaze
of even her mother and aunt. That was too
sacred a spot for any, save her own Herbert,
to look upon. She therefore confined herself

VOL. III. M

to a mere passing commentary on the advice
that was tendered to her, without entering
seriously upon the subject which was dearest
to her heart. She said, " Well, really I have
no intention at present of getting married ;
but that I do intend to get married some time
or another is, of course, true ; but I cannot
say when that time will come. I am quite
sure that you, my dear aunt, as well as my
mamma, have no other desire than the promotion
of my happiness. Of that, indeed, I
cannot entertain a doubt. But I believe also
that you would not wish to force me into any
marriage contrary to my own feelings. I have
no desire to marry at present, nor can I really
say at what time I shall be in a condition to
take that step. But this I must say at once,
so as to prevent any further conversation
about it, that I shall never marry Joe Whit-more.
Nothing on earth could induce me to
marry him. I have more than once expressed
myself to this effect before, and I now repeat
it. And, further, I say, that rather than marry
him I would beg, or starve, ay, or die. There
now is the solemn declaration of my soul. I
trust, therefore, my dear aunt, that you will
never again mention his name to me ; and,
dear mamma, I am sure that you will not, now

that you know the feelings of my heart on this
subject, annoy yourself or me by referring toit
any more. I shall be content with the suggestions
of my own heart, and for my happiness
I shall rest upon the providence of God.
Here my faith is fixed, and I feel that I shall
not be disappointed." She then stood up and
walked over to her mother and kissed her
cheek. She did the same with her aunt, and
then left the room.

But while this agitation was going on
among the ladies, Joe Whitmore and Bartley
Croker, with their understrappers, Peter
Mackey and Jer Grinnex, were not idle spectators
of passing events. The two first-named
gentlemen met by appointment, and
discussed the subject nearest to their heart,
each contending for his own view of the
course to be adopted just as it suited his own
particular interest. Joe was, at first, very
tenacious of his original purpose of abducting
Miss Moore by force, since he saw in this the
proudest triumph he could achieve over
Herbert Granville, for, as he urged, "it
would cut him to the very centre of his
heart." This, he thought, would be better
than murdering him; for if he were once
dead he could suffer no more ; but by being
M 2

alive, and seeing the girl of his heart in the
possession of another, he would be suffering
a repeated death, that is, a continuous death
in life. And Joe gloated over this idea.

Bartley Croker, however, thought otherwise;
and he was not a man who would
permit an inferior villain to himself, like Joe
Whitmore, to overrule him. He accordingly
took up Joe's arguments seriatim, and
thumped them to powder," as he afterwards
said. He pointed out the folly of supposing
that Miss Moore, even in the event of
her being abducted, would be reconciled to
her abductor. So far, he thought, would
"Whitmore be from establishing a triumph
over his rival, Mr. Granville, by such a
course, that he should only expose himself to
derision, perhaps to ruin. But there was the
probable failure of the enterprise to be considered.
It might not be so easy as AYhit-
more imagined to take Miss Moore forcibly
from her father's house. Even if her parents
and her aunt, Mrs. Credan, favoured the
design, there were other difficulties in the
way. Would her brother, Harry Moore, who
loved her so dearly, and who was so deeply
and tenderly interested in the fortunes of the
Granville family — would he be ineffective in

his resistance to any outrage offered to this
sister? But was it likely either that old
Mr. Moore would assent to any arrangement
touching the abduction of his daughter, no
matter what his wife or sister-in-law might
think about it. Was it not most probable
that he would not listen to such a thing,
and that his wife and sister-in-law would not
dare to mention such a thing to him ? Then,
look at the personal danger to Joe Whitmore
himself which this matter involved. The
probabilities were all on the side of the
opinion that his ruin would be the inevitable
consequence of any attempt of the sort contemplated.
Thus Bartley reasoned, placing
Whitmore' s plan of operation in every point
of view that was calculated to influence its
rejection and the adoption of his own. Whit-more
at length began to waver in his purpose,
notwithstanding the Treat eclat which he
had promised himself from the abduction ;
and the terrible torture which he believed it
would inflict upon the heart of Herbert
Granville. Joe Whitmore was a vain villain ;
indeed we are not sure but that all villains
are vain ; for vanity would appear to be a
part, and no small part, of the natural constitution
of the generality of villains to be

met with in ordinary life. But be that as it
may, Joe was doubtless afflicted with a large
share of vanity ; and therefore to be deprived
of the " glory'* as he termed it, of
carrying off Miss Moore, was in no small
degree painful to him. It was hard to makeup
for this in any other way. As to Herbert
Granville's destruction, he didn't much care
about that, one way or another, except that
he wouldn't go to the trouble of having any
active hand in it himself. It might be done,
for aught he cared ; but he did not set his
heart upon it. He wished him to be removed
out of his way, to be sure ; that was
an important object with him ; but he should
as soon have it done by transportation, or
hanging, or any other way as by murder.
Bartley Croker, however, was of a different
opinion. He was not a man of half-measures.
He held it as a fixed principle from which
there should be no deviation, that any man
who stood in the line of your ambition or
your interest should be removed from it in
the most effectual way; that is, in such a
way that no apprehension need ever be
entertained of him. To effect such a removal,
then, there was but one way, and that was
his absolute destruction. Bartley, too, was

a pious man — we do not mean, of comes,
that he was actually so, but we mean that he
assumed the outward expression and semblance
of piety, and made it a most important
portion of his system of villainy to impress
an opinion of his piety upon every person
with whom he came into contact. His being
an attorney by profession, too, added greatly
to the advantages which he hoped to derive
from this deception ; for his being known
and spoken of as a "pious attorney" would
be regarded as one of the wonders of the
world, and could not fail to surround him
with overflowing confidence and all its consequent
benefits. It is true that he assumed
this piety at the time that he had been a
practising attorney, and before he became
agent to Lord Milford ; but as it was a wise
measure then, he had no reason to think that
it would not be equally wise and beneficial to
continue it through every ramification of his
career. At all events, he did continue it ;
and he still endeavoured to be recognized as
the '' pious attorney." To be sure, Joe
Whitmore understood him pretty well, that
is, as far as his inferior degree of roguery
enabled him to penetrate the more extensive
regions of Bartley's villainy. He knew him

well enough, at all events, to see that on the
present occasion he was anxious only about
his own property and character, and desirous
of removing every possible chance of having
either of them sifted or disturbed. But
Whitmore had his own turn to serve, and he
was incapable of effecting anything without
Hartley's assistance ; so he was obliged to
submit to his fate, and to adopt the course
marked out by his friend's superior ingenuity.
It was therefore resolved between
them that an attack should be made, in the
shape of a Whitefeet invasion, upon the Ash
Grove House, and that the attack should be
so arranged as to provide for the greatest
possible probability of Herbert's being shot.
They could not of course devise any plan that
would ensure his certain death, since there
was no doubt that he would defend himself ;
but the greatest probability of arriving at
that end was all that could be aimed at in
the arrangement, and to this they applied
themselves. "Who was to lead the attack ?
This was a question which presented some
difficulty. They saw at once that Paddy
Larkin was not the man to suit their purpose
in that respect, since his devotion to the
interests of the Ash Grove family was well

known. Then there was another difficulty,
which was equally insurmountable; it was
this, that Paddy being the chief officer of the
"Army of Freedom" in his own district, no
operation could be planned or carried out there
without his concurrence and superior control.
In fact, they saw that Paddy was not available
for then" purpose ; and that in order to
be successful they must hide their design
altogether from that gentleman. What then
was to be done ? Bartley Croker struck out
the plan at once, that is, after they had
determined upon ignoring the services of
Paddy Larkin.

The plan was this : Jer Grinnex was to be
employed to enter into an arrangement with
the General of the Bally dine Division of the
Army of Freedom, with the view of effecting
the purpose in hand. The general, through
Grinnex, was to be informed that a certain
sum of money was to be placed at his disposal
in consideration of his acting in conformity
with the views of a certain party, to
him unknown, but who, he was to understand,
were equally interested with himself
in promoting the cause of Irish freedom.
The part which he would be called upon to
act was this : on a certain nisrht, and at a

certain hour, he was to order a combined
attack on two points within the district of
Ballydine ; that Ash Grove House was to
be one of these points ; and that the other
would be left to his own discretion. He was
to appoint Jer Grinnex commanding officer
in the movement upon Ash Grove House ;
while Paddy Larkin was to be placed in
command of the other attack. It was determined
that four men should be detailed as
the force which Jer Grinnex was to lead in
his part of the attack, and that these men
should be strangers, that is, that the should
not belong to the villa ose or immediate neighbourhood
of Ballydine. It was suggested
that Cushport men, or Corrigcastle men
would be the best suited to the purpose.
Furthermore, the general was to be instructed
not to acquaint Paddy Larkin with
the second portion of the combined attack,
that is, that portion which had Ash Grove
House for its object.

This was, of course, essential ; for otherwise
Paddy, instead of dressing on, and
carrying the fortress, assigned as his portion
of the work, at the point of the sword,
would most probably fall back ; and in place
of aiding, would throw his whole force into

a resistance to the whole plan of operation.
Bartley Croker next suggested that Jer
Grinned should be placed in immediate communication
with Peter Mackey, the publican,
who was to act as the mainspring to the
whole machine.

You see, my dear fellow," said he,
addressing Joe Whitmore, and taking him
soothingly by the coat-collar at the same
time, " You see, my dear fellow, that it
would never do for us to be seen in this
affair. We must be as if we were not.
Mackey will transact the whole business;
he is a shrewd, keen fellow, and alive to his
own interest — i' faith ! for that matter I'd
back him against the kingdom," and here
he chuckled with great self-complacency,
drawing himself up, and placing his arms
akimbo. He then resumed, " We must
place a fair sum of money in his hands, so
as to set him in motion. Promises would
be of no avail with him ; for he seems to
have a low opinion of mankind ; not like
you and me, Whitmore, whose confidence in
our fellow-men is beyond suspicion, eh?" —
and he winked and smirked at his companion,
who returned the intelligence in a
sort of faded echo ; '' yes, Mackey will require

a sum of money to grease the springs
of the machinery and put it into motion."

•• But," interrupted AVhitmore, " does
Mackey know who this general is? I think
it is important that we should be informed
upon this matter before we put our hands
in oin^ pockets. If he is ignorant upon this
point, and if it must be that he has to depend
on Grinnex for information, I should
not, for my part, venture to spend any
money on the affair."

'bless your soul," replied Bartley, "he
knows him as siu^e as he knows his right
hand. Know him ? why whom does he not
know ? If this general be not a myth — if
he really exists, Mackey knows him, novi may
depend upon it. But if he do not exist, if
he be a mere imaginary creation; a voice, a
name, a rallying point, a shibboleth, in a word ;
still, our purpose can be served quite as efficiently
as if he were an embodiment of flesh
and blood. Let Mackey alone for that. Now,
look here," lie pressed up closely to AVhit-
more, placing his hand upon his shoulder,
and his lips to his ear, and whispering very
gently, *place a hundred pounds in Mackey's
hands, with suitable instructions, and then
let the thintr work itself."

He then drew back his head, and looked
half-smilingly into Joe's face, as if to mark
the effect, the soothing effect, as he believed
of his whispered words upon him.

But Joe did not seem to be quite charmed
with the words of his friend; for instead of
appearing pleased, as was expected, his face
became shaded with a passing cloud, through
which his eyes looked out rayless and muddy.

Bartley saw this at once, and at once proceeded
to rectify his error.

Now, Whitmore," he said, " you understand
this hundred pounds is only a loan, a
temporary loan. Mackey is to return it —
we shall have this in writing, observe — as
soon as he is compensated, at least to an
equal amount, for his services to the Government
in striking the first blow at this gigantic
conspiracy." His eyes t winked with a lurid
glare as he spoke : '' And," he continued,
look at the exalted position you shall have
attained in the estimation of the king, when
his Majesty shall have been informed, as he
shall have been, of the noble part you had
taken on behalf of the Crown."

Bartley waved his hand in confirmation of
the soundness of the view he had thus placed
under the eyes of his companion ; and then

seated himself ; folding his arms across his
breast, and looking up to the ceiling.

Whitmore appeared somewhat stunned with
the new idea ; and could make no reply for
some minutes. He paced the room, up and
down, and then looked out at the window ;
and then rubbed his eyes. After that he
appeared to brighten up; and the next
evidence of returning sagacity was a smile
which quivered sluggishly over his face. He
then sat beside his companion, and said in
the most confidential manner possible, —

"My dear Croker, I leave the management
of this business altogether in your hands ; I
am now ready to carry out with you any
arrangement which your superior judgment
suggests. I shall place the necessary funds
in your hands, to be disposed of in the
manner best calculated to effect our purposes."


Having delivered himself of these very
sagacious observations ; and feeling a flow
of spirit which operated very kindly upon
him, he slapped his hand upon his companion's
knee, exclaiming, —

'' Crack ! you are a man of genius,
Croker. I never doubted your great qualities
; and I now see that heaven has stamped

them with its power. Croker!" — here he
took his companion by the hand, and shook
him warmly — ''if you and I only stood, for
even once, in presence of the king, and heard
him say, ' Mr. Whitmore, I thank you for
your services to the Crown,' — eh, Croker ?
If I heard these words addressed to me by
the king — yes, by our sovereign lord, the
king — crack ! there, Croker ; crack ! I
say." He sprang to his legs, and paced the
room with rapid strides, waving his handkerchief
and muttering something about majesty,
sovereign, glory, realm.

Matters having been thus far adjusted
between the two chief plotters, it only remained
now to eno-ag^e the services of Peter
Mackey, the publican, and Jer Grinnex, the
patriot ; and to put the plot in train for
execution. Peter Mackey was accordingly
sent for by Bartley Croker a day or t\vo
after this last interview between himself and
Joe Whitmore ; and the arrangement mentioned
above was submitted to him. He
hesitated for a moment about accepting the
part assigned to himself; but after Bartley
had developed the plot in all its minutiae,
and shown the advantage-es which were sure
to flow from it to the public interests generally,

and to Peter himself in particular, the
latter waived this objections, and entered
heartily into the views of this employers.
He stipulated, however, that he should receive
the sum of fifty pounds immediately,
and before he proceeded a step in the execution
of the plot; 'because," as he said, ''I
must grease the hands of Jer Grinned before
I can make him stir an inch. And another
thing, Mr. Croker, I must tell you — if you
don't know it already — that there's no man
in the county able to handle the same Jer
but myself; but, so itself, I could never
make any cloth out of him without putting'
the ready rhino into his fist. So you see it
stands to reason to give me the fifty pounds.
I'll take care of it, and make it go far. You
know me, Mr. Croker, to be an honest man
that 'lid never deceive a friend or keep a
shilling' that didn't fairly belong to me. I'll
settle ior the hire o' the men ; and do everything
that's needful. Four men will be
enough, besides Jer himself; because, you
see, t!>e fewer the better. There'll be less
noise, and surer work. There's no one, you
may say, in Ash Grove House to be afraid
of, exception' Herbert himself; for ould Ben
ain't able to do anything ; and the two ould

men that's servants there, instead of fighting'
or the like, will crawl under the beds to
hide themselves. To be sure, Herbert '11
stand out like a lion; but so much the
better ; since the men '11 have a fair open
aim at him. Lay the money on my hands ;
and then name the night for the work."

Bartley saw that it was useless to attempt
to enlist the services of Peter without giving
him the sum he asked ; he therefore placed
the money in his hands, with the injunction
to spend only as much of it as was necessary
to eno-ao'e the services of Grinnex and the
four other men who were to be employed.
Whatever amount remained over this was to
be accounted for and considered as a portion
of the sum which should be determined upon
as his (Mackey's) own reward for his successful
execution of the plot. Now, although
Bartley accompanied the money with this
injunction, he had not the least idea that
Peter would give an honest account of it ;
on the contrary, he felt quite sure that he
would place the whole of it, or nearly the
whole of it, in his own purse ; and that the
only payment he would make to Grinnex and
his four assistants would be a few pints of
whisky, and perhaps a few shillings in their

VOL. III. N

pockets after their work of blood was done ;
yet lie wished in this covert way to intimate
to him that a farther sum was to be given
him, for his services in the faithful and
effective discharge of the task assigned to
him.

Peter Mackey, having put the fifty pounds
in his pocket, and having agreed to acquaint
Bartley with the completion of the necessary
arrangements, and the time when he
would be prepared to act in the final execution
of the plot, took his leave, and proceeded
homewards. But he had not gone
more than a mile when he met Jer Grinnex
approaching him on the road. Jer told him
that he had called at his house ; and finding
that he had been absent, and that he had
gone on the Gurtroo road, he strolled along
that way in the hope of meeting him. They
walked along together ; and Peter told him
that a good time was coming, and that his
(Jer's) fortune would be made very soon
unless it was his own fault. He told him in
the strictest confidence that the Government
would give any money to have Herbert Granville
put out of the way, because they had
heard that he was a very bad and dangerous
man, and that he plotted their overthrow.

That, moreover, they had heard that he ( Jer
Grinnex) was a good and loyal subject, and
in every respect a worthy and deserving
man ; and that they believed he was the
only person they could rely upon to put
Granville out of the ^v^ay. If he did this
service for them, they said, in the presence of
the Lord Lieutenant of Leland, that they
would make a man of him, and give him the
finest house and farm in the county. In
this way Peter went on to ply his companion,
as they walked along.

Jer felt greatly elated at the idea that the
Government held him in such high estimation,
and that there was such great luck in
store for him as to become the proprietor of
the finest house and farm in the county.
He was, therefore, ready to do anything,
and to run all sorts of risk to serve the
Crown, without taking further thought than
that of the future reward that was held out
for his services. So he agreed at once to
employ the four best men he could get either
in Cushport or Corrigcastle to join him in
the proposed undertaking; and he further
agreed to speak to General Doherty (for he
was one of the general's right-hand men),
for the purpose of getting him to order an
^N 2

attack on any night that would suit (it
should be, of course, on the same night on
which the attack was to be made on Ash
Grove House), on some other point, and to
place Paddy Larkin in command of it.

Having arrived at the Cross of Ballydine,
Peter Mackey took his companion with him
into his house; and having treated him to
a glass or two of his best whisky, he dismissed
him on the business in hand, enjoining
him not to allow the grass to grow under
his feet until he saw General Doherty, and
did everything necessary for the accomplishment
of the great design on which his
fortune now huns;,

A day or two passed over, during which
all parties interested in the forthcoming display
of the great Army of Freedom were
busily occupied in the necessary preparations.
Several interviews took place between Bartley
Croker and Joe Whitmore ; and also
between Peter Mackey and Jer Grinnex; and
the night for the combined attack was appointed
; and the two corps charmed with
their respective commanders were detailed
for this double service. The night would
be dark, for the moon was on the wane ; and
the hour of one o'clock in the morning was

deemed the most favourable ; this was the
hour fixed for the attack on Ash Grove
House : but the hour for the other attack,
which was intended upon a police-barrack
about a mile and a half distant from the
Cross of Balljdine and at the foot of a
hill lying to the west of Glen Corril, was
left to the decision of General Doherty,
who was to direct Paddy Larkin in that
behalf.

On the morning of the day preceding the
contemplated attack, Peter Mackey and Jer
Grinnex breakfasted together at the house
of the former; and this they did according
to arrangement, in order to keep fresh in
their minds the method and manner of the
advance, assault, and retreat. The ostensible
object of the assault was to take possession
of the fire-arms at Ash Grove House for
the use and benefit of the Army of Freedom ;
but the real object, which was kept from the
knowledge of the rank and file, and only
known to their commander, Jer Grinnex, was
to shoot down Herbert Granville.

You are to bring up your men along the
avenue," said Peter, repeating the order of
advance, 'until ye reach the little pond by
the side of the lawn. Yourself and two of

your men will then take a stand between the
upper edge of the pond and the corner of
the house in a line with the hall door, and
under the shade of the beech-tree ; and the
other two men are to steal along by the wall
till they come to the hall-door, where they
are to knock as loud as they can with the
butt-end of their carbines, and demand admittance
in the name of the Army of Freedom.
Then 'tis like that Master Herbert
will show himself above at one of the
windows, and ask what is wan tin'. If he
opens the window, and stands fair front, a
shot would be the best answer to give him ;
for, you see, that would silence him, and
make the business easy for the men to enter
and take the fire-arms. But, maybe, he
wouldn't stand fair front; if so, the hall-door
is to be burst in with the sledges ; and
that'll either bring him down, or make him
put out his head at the window to fire. If
he comes down, a would rush at him in the
hall, wit a pike or two will do the job ; but
if not, and that he puts out his head to fire
down, two slaps together at him, wit Uvo
carbines, will be sure to splinter him. If
not, in together with ye all, and pound away.
When 'tis all over, away wit ye then, and

never rest ham till ye reach the hill beyoDcl
Corrigcastle ; and there ye can hide in the
woods until the next night, and no one '11 bethe
wiser."

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE ATTACK — ITS CONSEQUENCES.

"We showed in a former chapter that John
Gorman, the captain, became acquainted with
the designs of Bartley Croker and Joe Whit-more
through the medium of his friend and
former lady-love, Nelly Bryan, the housekeeper
at Castle Whitmore. This information,
as the reader is aware, was obtained on
the evening when the captain was entertained
in the housekeeper's room in the rear
of the library. On that occasion the housekeeper
overheard the conversation of her
master and Bartley Croker, as she happened
to enter the closet which stood in the partition
which divided her room from the library.
With all that occurred on that evening the
reader is already acquainted, with the exception
of this, that before the captain parted
from Nelly Bryan on that evening, he had

exacted a solemn promise from lier that she
would always keep her eyes and ears open
whenever Bartley Croker visited Castle TVhiit-
more, and especially whenever those two
gentlemen sat together in the library inside
her own room, where the closet lay so conveniently
situated for overhearing their conversation.
Nelly Bryan was faithful to her
promise, and never failed to acquaint the
captain with all that transpired since that
evening of a nature to interest him, whether
it was a conversation between Joe WTiitmore
and Bartley Croker, or any other information,
of whatever shape or form, which appeared
to her to be desirable for him to be
furnished with.

It so happened, then, that on the night
preceding that on which the attack on Ash
Grove House was to take place, Bartley
Croker paid a visit to Joe AYhitmore, and
they both sat together in the library, and
talked the subject over. Nelly Bryan thus
acquired a considerable amount of information
through the medium of her '^ nice little
closet;" and of information, too, so interesting
and so important, that she concluded no
time should be lost in communicating it to
her friend the captain. We should have observed

that the captain lead informed Denny
Millions, the piper, of all that had transpired
at Castle Whitmore on the evening of the
interview in the library, that is, in reference
to the affairs of the Granvilles and the
Moores. Of course the captain did not
think it necessary to tell him of the tender
passages of love that took place between
himself and Nelly Bryan. Denny was therefore
on the alert to take note of everything
that turned up which bore upon the interests
of his friends at Ash Grove and at Brookfield
Hall. He never allowed a day to pass
without visiting both houses, and also extending
his rambles in the direction of Castle
Whitmore. He sometimes called in to the
Castle to see the housekeeper, and to play a
tune for her, for he was an old acquaintance
of hers, too ; and besides, it was understood
between herself and the captain that she
was to communicate to Denny whatever information
she might deem of importance
under the circumstances. The captain himself,
we need scarcely say, allowed his brain
but little rest from the moment he had discovered
the fell intentions of the two villains
upon the peace and happiness, as well as
upon the life, of his friend, Herbert Granville.

He was out early and late in quest of
information. His visits to Castle Whitmore
were short and not frequent, for the obvious
reason that he did not wish to attract notice.
But with Denny, the piper, there was no need
of such caution, inasmuch as it was in the
course of his profession to call at the houses
of the gentry everywhere, and at all times.
No notice therefore was to be taken of him.

When Nelly Bryan, the housekeeper at
Castle AVhitmore, had arrived at the knowledge
of the attack that was about to be
made upon Ash Grove House — and this knowledge
she had obtained, as we have stated,
on the night preceding that of the intended
attack — she became very anxious, and sought
every opportunity to make the captain acquainted
with what was going forward.

Denny had not made his appearance at or
about the Castle on the following morning ;
and Nelly Bryan knew no one whom she
could trust with a message to either the
captain or the piper. She waited, and waited,
until the afternoon of the day on which so
much depended in the way of making the
necessary preparation to defend Herbert
Granville from the approaching assault upon
his life. She grew more and more restless

and distracted when she found that the time
was getting short, and that neither the captain
nor the piper had made their appearance.


It was now evening ; even the shadows of
night were beginning to fall, and yet there
was no appearance of any person to whom
she could communicate the important information
with which her breast was burdened.
She became almost desperate. At
length, throwing her cloak over her shoulders,
she rushed out of the house, resolved to find
the captain, and inform him of the danger of
his friend. She passed hastily down by the
edge of the lawn until she got into the windings
of the avenue amid the embowering
trees. Here she heard footsteps advancing
up the avenue. She paused; and after a
moment she beheld Denny Mullins advancing
towards her with his pipes under his arm.
She hurried forward to meet him ; and taking
hold of his arm, she communicated to him
in broken sentences, but in a sufficiently intelligible
manner, all that she had overheard
in reference to the projected attack upon Ash
Grove House. With reference to the movement
against the police-barrack she was not
so clear ; all that she could tell on that point

was that Paddy Larkin Y*^as to lead it, and
that it was to take place at twelve o'clock
that night, that is, an hour before the attack
upon Ash Grove House. Denny appeared
greatly excited ; but he endeavoured to elicit
from her every particular that occurred to
him as necessary to be known, by putting all
sorts of questions to her, and attending to
the answers she returned. He then left
her, and commenced retracing his steps towards
Ballydine ; for it immediately crossed
his mind that Moll Dreelin was the first person
whom he ought to see and question with
reference to the movements of Paddy Larkin.
It was getting late, and no time was to be
lost. He pushed on with great alacrity,
shifting the green bag from arm to arm, in
order to promote his speed.

Having arrived at Moll Dreelin' s, he took
that lady into the back room before he spoke
a word, thereby causing her, as well as her
daughter Anty, to feel not a little alarmed,
especially when they noticed the excitement
and trepidation which accompanied his behaviour.
Having slammed back the door as
they entered the room, he flung the green
bag upon the bed ; and then taking her by
the arm, which he pressed and shook in his

excitement, he asked her, in a series of rapid
questions, *' Where was Paddy Larkin? when
had he left the village ? what was he doing ?
when would he come back?" which he followed
up bv other questions, and by observations
expressive of his astonished and indignant
feelings.

Aitev she had taken time to draw her
breath, she asked him why he was in such a
state of excitement, and what had happened
to him at all that he should behave himself
in the way he did. He then became a little
calm, and told her about the attack that was
to be made that night upon Master Herbert
Granville. It was her turn now to become
alarmed ; and so she clapped her hands together,
and began to give vent to her feelings
of sorrowful apprehension. She then called
in Anty, who, when she heard the news,
began also to clap her hands and to ejaculate
her sorrow.

Time, however, was not to be wasted in
idle regrets ; so Denny demanded at once all
the information they could give him with
respect to Paddy Larkin. Anty, from whom
her betrothed was not wont to conceal any
of his movements, then related all she knew
She said that Paddy left the village early in

the evening ; that he went to Corrigcastle to
see General Dohertj; that he was to leave
that town at half-past ten o'clock with a
party of Whitefeet to attack the police-barrack
at Skark, and that he was to be back
at their (Dreelin's) house again between one
and two o'clock in the morning:. He told
her before he went that the general expected
him back to Corrigcastle as soon as the business
should be over at the barrack ; but that
he would not return there, but would return
to her immediately'. This was the substance
of her information, and it was enough for
Denny.

Leaving his pipes in the care of Moll
Dreelin, and taking a stout blackthorn stick
in his hand, he sallied forth in search of
Paddy Larkin. But before he passed outside
the door, he directed Anty Dreelin and her
mother to lose no time in finding out the
captain, either at his house or elsewhere,
and telling him how things stood. He then
went on his way, down by the Cross and
along the road to Corrigcastle. His intention
was to meet Paddy Larkin at Corrigcastle
before he had set out for the attack on the
barrack, and there inform him of the intended
movement against Ash Grove House. He

knew that Paddy, as soon as lie should have
received this information, would hasten back
to defend the family under whose roof he
had been sheltered from his earliest boyhood,
and for whom he entertained the deepest
affection.

No sooner had Denny, the piper, stepped
outside the door of Dreelin's house than
Anty, taking her shawl and wrapping it
around her, went forth in search of the
captain. She had not gone far, when she
met Ned Doolin and Bill Clearyy coming down
against her on their way towards the Cross.
She stopped them; and at once informed
them of all that had just transpired. They
were greatly astonished ; and told her to
return to her house, as they would go immediately
and tell the captain, for they knew
where he was. She accordingly returned
home ; and they, retracing their steps, passed
up the mountain road for a short distance ;
and then, crossing over the fields, proceeded
in the direction of Brookfield Hall. They
found the captain there, seated before a
blazing fire in the servants' hall, and cracking
jokes with the fat butler. They took
him out into the farmyard, and there communicated
to him the intelligence they had

received. He comprehended the whole matter
at once ; and telling them to hasten down to
Ash Grove House, and to acquaint Master
Herbert with the news, and to stop therewith
him until he should join them, he returned
into the Hall again for the purpose of
seeing and speaking with Master Harry Moore.
This gentleman, as soon as he had heard
from the captain that danger was impending
over the Granville family, hastened to afford
them all the assistance in his power. He
oft together some of his men — house and

O CD

farm servants — and armed them with blunderbusses,
carbines, and pistols : then giving
his double-barrel fowling piece to the captain,
and taking a case of pistols under his own
arm, he, and the captain, and the men
hastened down to Ash Grove House. They
found Herbert Granville and Uncle Ben,
with Ned Doolin and Bill Clearyy seated in
the parlour, talking over the news, and
speculating as to the probabilities of its
correctness or otherwise. After some conversation
between all the parties, in which
the captain took the chief part, it was determined
to take immediate steps to guard
against a surprise, and to put the house ina
state of defence.

VOL. III.

It was now between ten and eleven o'clock,
and consequently it was time to make the
necessary arrangements to repel any assault
that might be made upon the house and
premises, in case there was any truth in the
news received to that effect. It was true
that no great reliance should be placed upon
a statement made by Anty Dreelin ; but then
Denny, the piper, was not a man that could
easily be deceived upon a matter which had
latterly so much occupied his attention.
This latter consideration, coupled with the
information possessed by the captain, whose
shrewdness and penetration no one could
question, left scarcely a doubt that some
movement of the kind mentioned might be
made. Every possible preparation was,
therefore, made to resist the apprehended
assist. All the lower windows were strongly
fastened and bolted. Barricades were erected
against the doors, front and rear. The upper
windows were to be manned ; that is, as
many of them as there were men to guard,
two men being stationed at each window ;
the rest were to be fastened and barricaded.
Some men were to be stationed on the outside
as sentinels, who were to give notice of
the approach of the assailants, and then

retire within the house. By the time all
these arrangements were effected, the clock
struck twelve. All the front lights in the
house were then put out; and the party
held themselves in readiness to take their
posts as soon as the sentinels, who had now
taken up their assigned positions outside,
should report the approaching attack. The
clock struck one; and there was no alarm
from the sentinels. But within fifteen
minutes afterwards they came in quickly,
and reported that there was a suppressed
murmur in the avenue as if of many persons
stealthily approaching.

All now took their places. In a few
minutes Jer Grinnex was seen creeping
towards the beech-tree in front of the house,
where he crouched beneath its branches.
Two or three other men appeared gliding
among the trees between the pond and the
house, while some others were seen moving
off towards the end of the house and in the
direction of the courtyard. The night was
rather dark, a few stars only twinkling here
and there between the black masses of cloud
that spread over the sky. But yet there
was sufficient light to permit the outline of
objects at a short distance to be seen,


Herbert Granville and Ned Doolin occupied
one of the windows in front of the house ;
and Harry Moore and Bill Clears occupied
another at a little distance from them, one
window only intervening between the two
parties. Scarcely had they marked the
movements we have just mentioned when a
loud voice was heard at the hall-door demanding
admittance in the name of Captain
Whitefoot and the Army of Freedom.

Then there was a pause of a few seconds;
after which two or three blows, as of a
sledge-hammer were heard resounding against
the door. Harry Moore lifted the window-sash
near which he stood, to the height of
some eight or ten inches, and delivered a
pistol shot at those who were endeavouring
to force the door. Immediately' two men
rushed back from the door, flinging aside a
sledge-hammer and a crowbar, and made
for the avenue by the edge of the lawn, both
crying out at the same time, with bellowing
voices, that they were '^ kilt, and murdered,
and battered to pieces entirely."

In the midst of this uproar Jer Grinned
was observed lifting himself up beneath the
shade of the beech-tree, and levelling a carbine
towards the window whence the pistol

Lad been fired. Xed Doolin perceiving this,
immediately raised his blunderbuss, and levelling
it at Grinnex, fired ; the two shots went
off simultaneously, and appeared to have
both produced effect ; for Grinnex was
whirled round to his right side, and then
flung upon his face, while Harry Moore
staggered back from the window, and
dropped upon a couch that lay near him.
Xo sooner, however, had the report of the
two last shots died upon the air, than a
shout was heard in the avenue, followed by
tumultuous sounds, as if of a number of
men rushing forward. In a few seconds
more, a voice, which was recognized as that
of Denny Mullins, the piper, was heard high
above the rest, exclaiming, —

Hurroo ! Granville abo ! Follow me,
Paddy Larkin ! follow me, men ! Clear the
way! Granville for ever ! hurroo!"

This exclamation was followed by a rapid
succession of shots, near the pond, and along
the avenue ; after which a dead silence ensued.


Herbert Granville, followed by Ned Dominant
Bill Clearyy, then descended the staircase,
and presented himself at the hall-door, where
he was met by the captain and some of his

own men, who were carrying between them
the apparently lifeless body of Denny Mullins.
Paddy Larkin was also with them, accompanied
by half a dozen strange men. As
soon as Herbert spoke, Denny lifted himself
up between the men's arms, and attempted
to brandish his arm and raise a shout, but
he failed ; the arm dropped, and the words,
Granville for ever," died away in a low
murmur on his lips. He was carried in and
laid upon a couch in the back parlour. The
men stood around; while Herbert Granville,
stooping over him, endeavoured to discover
the seat of his injury. After a little time he
detected a drop of blood upon his right
breast just below the shoulder. He then
gave orders to have the family surgeon
brought immediately, giving a small scrap of
pencilled paper to the messengers to be presented
to him.

Old Uncle Ben and the ladies, who had,
according to arrangement, been placed in a
retired room upstairs under the protection of
three or four of the men, now came down,
and were deeply affected at the prostrate
condition of poor Denny. Uncle Ben talked
of duels, and wounds, and scratches, and
fractures, while Mrs. Granville and Julia

busied themselves in providing whatever
they thought was calculated to soothe the
sufferings of their " poor, dear friend."
While they were thus employed, Denny
opened his ej'es, and recognizing Mrs. Granville
and her daughter, he made an effort to
extend a hand to each of them ; but his
strength failed him ; his hands fell back
upon the couch ; and two tears rolled down
from his eyes and spread over his cheeks.

While waiting for the arrival of the
surgeon, vre shall take leave to lead the
attention of the reader back to the proceedings
of Denny Mullins from the time he had
left Moll Dreelin's until his arrival upon the
scene where he met with his disaster. He
went on with all the speed he could command
until he reached Corrigcastle ; and ashe
was crossing the Fair Green of that town,
it occurred to him, for the first time, that he
was wholly unacquainted with the place of
residence of General Doherty. This caused
him great uneasiness; but he still pressed
on in the hope that he might meet some
person from whom he might obtain the desired
information. He entered the labyrinth
of streets ; and passing on from one to
another he looked about himself, but in vain.

for some clue to direct him to bis object.
He called into two or three small shops
whose owners he was intimately acquainted
with; but he obtained no information available
for his purpose. Despairing now of
meeting Paddy Larkin in the town, he concluded
that his best course would be to proceed
at once towards the barrack of Skark,
keeping on the road that led thither from the
town ; for thus he hoped either to meet him
on the road or somewhere in the vicinity of the
barrack. So he returned to the Fair Green ;
and crossing it, he passed out upon the highroad
to Skark. On he went without meeting
any one that could afford him any satisfactory
information, until he came within a
mile of Skark, when he met a man who told
him that he saw a party of men standing
inside the hedge by the roadside within a
couple of hundred yards of the barrack.
This information afforded assurance to Denny
that he was now in a fair way of effecting
the object of his journey. So he hastened
forward until he reached a turn in the road
at the distance of less than one quarter of a
mile from the barrack, when he heard a shot ;
then another; and then a volley, as if a
dozen shots had been fired together. He

jumped across the ditch on his right hand,
and, keeping close to the hedge on the other
side, he soon perceived a number of men
rushing down the road from the direction of
the barrack. He looked out through the
furze on the top of the hedge, as the men
rushed by; but he recognized none of them.
At the same time he heard a voice some
distance above him on the road, which he
knew to be that of Paddy Larkin. He kept
his attention fixed on the point whence the
voice had proceeded ; and he discovered by
the murmur and tramp which reached his
ears that another party was coming down
the road. He still listened as the sounds
drew near ; and having fully satisfied himself
that Paddy Larkin was amongst the party,
and was probably leading his men away after
an unsuccessful attack upon the barrack, he
came out from his hiding-place, and hailed
him. Paddy knew the voice, and asked in
an angry tone, what brought him there ?
Denny then jumped out upon the road,
and advanced towards the party. Having
reached them, he took Paddy aside, and
talked with him for a few minutes. Paddy
made a few impatient gestures ; and ordering
his men to halt, he addressed them in a

few words, informing them of the state of
affairs in reference to the contemplated
attack on Ash Grove House, as communicated
to him by Denny, and asking them to
accompany him for the purpose of repelling
that attack. They unanimously assented.
The party consisted of six men exclusive of
Paddy Larkin. They immediately crossed
into the fields, and hastened on towards
Ballydine.

At this time it was about half-past twelve
o'clock, and there was a mile and a half of
distance between them and Ash Grove House.
They accordingly walked on with rapid strides
in order to reach the house if possible before
the attack commenced, which, according to
Denny's information, was to taka place at one
o'clock precisely. As they went along Denny
learned from Paddy Larkin, in answer to
questions which he continued to put to him
every now and then, that the inmates of Skark
Barrack had had information of the approaching
attack upon them from some quarter
or other; and were, therefore, prepared to
repel it. When Paddy had brought up his
men, which were twelve in number (six of
whom had scampered away upon the first
fire), he disposed them in two divisions, one

in front and the other in rear of the barrack.
He had scarcely done so, however, when a
rifle ball fired from the barrack whizzed by his
ear. He returned the shot immediately, but
he had no sooner done so than a dozen shots
were fired from front and rear. The six men
whom he had ordered to the rear rushed back
in a panic without firing a shot, whilst himself
and the six men whom he had with him
crouched behind a wall which ran partly in
front of the barrack. Here the remained
for a few minutes unable to do anvthino\
The' kueAv that if they put their heads above
the wall they would be fired at, and that to
return the fire would be perfectly useless.
They therefore crept along the wall until they
came to an angle which took them out of
range of the barrack. They then crossed a
field or two under cover of the hedges until
they came out upon the road on which Denny
had met them. Such was the substance of the
information which Denny elicited from his
friend as they passed along over the fields.
They were now close upon Ballydine Cross,
'but instead of passing through it they crossed
over into the fields, and came out upon the
mountain road, a little above the main entrance
to Ash Grove House. They passed on

until they reached the gate, where they stood
for a moment to listen for some sounds, but
not hearing any they passed in at the gate
and up the avenue. They had not proceeded
twenty yards, however, when they heard the
first shot, and then they rushed up quickly.
The two next shots were immediately heard,
when Denny, advancing in front of the party,
burst into a cheer, and called upon Paddy
Larkin to follow him, as we have already
recorded. Just as he had reached the lower
end of the little pond by the side of the
avenue, he saw two men moving in a crouched
attitude beneath the trees, and holding each
a gun poised in his hands as if prepared to
discharge it ; he rushed at them, and before
they had time to place themselves in position
to fire at him he struck down one of them
with his blackthorn stick. Just as he did so
the second man fired, but without effect. Two
or three other men who were rushing across
the avenue exchanged shots with the advancing
party, and it was from one of these that
Denny received his wound. Just as he fella
man was seen retreating from the avenue
towards the trees on the edge of the pond,
carrying a gun in his hand ; one of Larkin' s
men fired at bim, and evidently struck him,

for lie staggered near the edge of the pond
and fell into the water. This was the last
shot that was fired. The captain and two
or three of the Granville party then came up,
and after a brief conversation with Paddy
Larkin and his men, they took up Denny and
carried him to the hall-door as before stated.
About an hour had passed since Herbert
Granville had sent for the family surgeon to
attend Denny, and now that gentleman
arrived. He examined the wound ; and
although he shook his head and looked
ominous, yet he did not apprehend that it
would terminate fatally. He then proceeded
to extract the shot, a task which he performed
with great skill and care. He then
dressed the wound, and gave some general
directions for the treatment of the patient.
Denny had now considerably recovered from
his exhaustion, under the gentle care and kind
treatment of Mrs. Granville and her daughter,
and was able to converse a little with those
around him. But we must not omit to state
.here that Harry Moore was all this time in
Mrs. Granville's private sitting-room, receiving
the most tender attentions from that lady,
and also from Julia. He had not been much
hurt Ashen he staggered back from the winslow

after Jer Grinnex had fired at him. His
face was barely scratched by the broken glass
which was blown about by the shot, and the
corner of one of his eyes was cut slightly. So
that when he dropped back upon the couch, it
was merely with the intention of loading his
pistol again in case of his being required to
use it. Paddy Larkin and his men retired
immediately after the surgeon had pronounced
Denny out of danger, and so did all the others,
save Harry Moore, who remained with the
family. The captain went over to Brookfield
Hall to inform the family there of what had
transpired, and to relieve them of any uneasiness
that they might have felt from the
absence of Master Harry. The day was now
breaking, and in the course of another hour
several persons appeared on the scene of the
recent conflict. Among others Sir Michael
Carey and the Rev. Dr. Markham rode up the
avenue. They were followed shortly afterwards
by a party of police from the Skark
Barrack, and a large number of the neighbouring
peasantry soon followed. In short, the
day had not advanced many hours when the
report of the attack upon Ash Grove House
had spread far and near, coupled with that on
the barrack at Skark. The lawn and surrounding

grounds were now examined by the
police, followed by the peasantry, when the
following results came to light : Jer Grinnex
was found under the beech-tree, lying on his
face, with a carbine resting under his breast.
He was quite dead. At the edge of the little
pond near the lawn was found a man with his
head and shoulders buried in the water and
mud, and his legs resting on the bank; when
he was taken up and exposed to view, he was
at once recognized as Peter Mackey, the publican
at the Cross. He, too, was quite dead,
and a blunderbuss was immersed in the mud
beside him. No other person was found on
the grounds either dead or wounded ; but
several indications of the fray were discovered
here and there, such as carbines, pistols, hats,
and one or two overcoats. And thus terminated
the combined attack of the Ballydiae
Division of the great Army of Freedom.

CHAPTER XXIV.

AN UNEXPECTED Arrival — GREAT Rejoicing AT
ASH Grove HOUSE.

Immediately after the captain had told the
news of the night's affray to the old butler
at Brookfield Hall, the whole household were
astir with excitement. Mr. Moore sent forth
a volley of puffs and exclamations, as he
rolled himself out of bed, that grated dreadfully
on the nerves of Mrs. Moore, who,
bustling amid the blankets and sheets, was
endeavouring to steady herself before commencing
to dress. The servants kept up a
continuous clatter and gibber throughout the
house ; and the captain, seated in front of
a roaring fire in the hall, was renewing the
narrative of the nio-ht's adventures to servant
and straggler, as they succeeded each other
in trembling excitement to '' hear the whole
truth about it." The captain closed his eyes,

and repeated the story over and over, andover,
to the great admiration and amazement
of each succeeding news seeker. At length
Mr. Moore thundered and rolled down stairs ;
and puffed and rumbled his way into the
hall ; and seating himself in the fat butler's
armchair, desired the captain to tell him all
about this affair ; and the captain renewed
his story again : —

Well, squire," he commenced, " as soon
as we had the hatches battened down, and
the decks cleared for action, and everything
tight and snug ; when every man was placed
at his post, and all stragglers were forbid to
pass up or down on either deck; when the
ship was prepared at all points to go into
action, the enemy was sighted. He came on
slow and slouching, like a great hubbard, that
wasn't well up to his business. He divided
his fleet into three divisions ; one rounded
off on our quarter, keeping at a safe distance,
and covered by the fog, so that we could
neither reach him with a flying messenger,
nor exactly discover the proper direction in
which to despatch a messenger with our
compliments ; the second division took up a
position a short distance in front of us under
cover of a dark and hanging cloud ; this

VOL. III. P

consisted of a single craft, strong, short, and
rakish, and showing an earnest desire to
close with us, at the first fair chance ; the
third was made up of two rough-looking
crafts, carrying heavy metal, and determined
upon quick action. This last division came
sneaking up at first; but no sooner did it
come within close cuffs of us than it began
to pummel away at our ports ; I did not like
that, I tell you, squire. It was ugly looking,
and contrary to the true principles of naval
science."

Here Mr. Moore became impatient; and
requested to be informed of the affair in as
few words as possible. The captain resumed
: —

Yon must observe, squire, that I am
called on to give a full, true, and faithful
account of this first great battle — I suppose
it may be called the first — this first great
battle fought between the Army of Freedom
and their enemies. This is the more necessary
for this reason, that the first authentic
history of every great event is used as a
model and store-house by every succeeding
historian, and thus sent down from generation
to generation, until it becomes a sort of
sacred deposit, which it would be a sacrilege

to touch. So you see, sir, that the facts
must be clearly stated, and arranged in
shining order ; then the language must be
such as to preclude every possibility of misapprehension
— clear, plain, precise, simple.
I am now repeating the words of a book I
once read, which described the duty of an
historian; for I always wish to flank myself
with sound authority. Well, squire, this
being the case, I hope you will permit me to
go on in the proper historical order."

Order be hanged ! " exclaimed Mr. Moore.
Are you not talking to me about this attack
of the Whitefeet as if it was a naval engagement
you were describing? What has this
scuffle to do with decks, and ports, and
quarters ? I want to know how many men
were there ; and what they did ; and who is
hurt ; and if any one is killed. How is my
son ? Are the Granville unhurt ? "

Now, squire," resumed the captain,
there is no honest man killed or hurt except
one, and his name is Denny MulHns ;
but he is not in any danger. He was exhausted
from long fasting and fatigue ; and
having received a slight wound in the engagement,
he was brought to a low ebb at
first ; and when his excitement passed off, he
V 2

seemed the same as dead, but lie is recovering


How are the womenkind there ? " asked
Mr. Moore; "I suppose they are frightened
to death. Why didn't they send for me ? "

All well and hearty," answered the captain.
'' Your son, Master Harry, is paying
them the best attention ; or they are paying
it to him, I don't exactly know which ; but I
suppose it comes to the same thing in the
long run."

Oh, the scapegrace," exclaimed Mr.
Moore, " I didn't think he had so much forethought
as to attend to the requirements of
any person."

'' You may make yourself easy about that,"
observed the captain; "there's one person,
at least, whose requirements he'll attend to."

'' Who is that ? " asked Mr. Moore.

One of the sweetest angels that walks
upon two legs ; and her name is Miss Julia
Granville," replied the captain.

'* Julia Granville ?" said Mr. Moore. " True,
a nobler and fairer girl does not tread upon
Irish soil. I am glad to hear that my son
can appreciate what is fair and noble. Well,
how is poor Mrs. Granville ? and my old
friend, Ben Brown ? "

'^ Tbev are right well," answered the
captain, " we put them under convoy, and
sent them to the rear, where the stood off
and on until all was over. Now, sir, I must
be off, and see how all stands at the Amazement
; then I must see Denny's mother, and
tell her how the world goes. She might be
fretting, poor woman ; especially if any bad
news came to her ears." He then rose, and
set out for his house.

While the preceding conversation was
taking place between Mr. Moore and the
captain, Mrs. Moore and her daughter were
on their ways to Ash Grove. After they had
arrived there, they were shown into the
drawing-room, where they were received by
Herbert Granville and his sister Julia. Harry
Moore was also there. Mrs. Granville came
in immediately afterwards ; and the whole
party remained in conversation for sometime,
Mrs. Granville and Julia describing the
fearful events of the night, and the state of
alarm into which the whole family were
thrown, and bewailing the sad consequences
'which followed. Fanny looked pale and
tremulous, and yet a happy smile lighted up
her face as from time to time she glanced
over at Herbert, who appeared quite cheerful

as be talked with Harry Moore. At length
she glided softly over, and bantering her
brother on his scratched cheeks and wounded
eye, she said, looking up to Herbert, " I
don't see any marks of the affray upon you,
Herbert. How did you escape ? "

*' I had so many friends at my side," replied
Herbert, " that danger was not able to
approach me. Besides, there may have been
some invisible agency guarding me." And
here he looked significantly at Fanny, who
smiled, and said, —

Perhaps some good spirit hovered over
you, and preserved a life that was deemed
too valuable to be so early cut off."

"You pay me too high a compliment,"
rejoined Herbert. '' The fact is, I was in no
danger throughout the whole affair. But
the life of your brother here was in imminent
danger; and I believe it was preserved
through the watchfulness and activity of Ned
Doolin. He it was who prevented a person
named Jer Grinned, from shooting him ; but,
unfortunately the wretched man himself, I
mean Grinnex, was killed."

A slight tremor passed over Fanny's frame,
as she looked towards her brother. She then
said with grave solemnity, '' Thank God, that

you all have escaped so well. Oli, low
wretched it would Lave been if anything
serious had happened to an' of you ! "

She then joined her mother, and Mrs.
Granville and Julia ; and they four went to
see how Denny Mullins was. Denny was
sitting upon a couch when they entered, and
looked pale and exhausted ; but as soon ashe
saw Mrs. Moore and Fanny he rose, and
extended his hands to them, saying, " Master
Harry is not a bit the worse, ma'am, for the
touch he got, not a bit. Miss Fanny. We
had great ructions, ma'am; but 'twas
nothing' to spake about. ' T was all over when
I came, Miss Fanny. So I was just coming'
up the avenue, and I got a little scratch hereon
my breast ; but 'tis nothing' to spake
about." He then cast down his eyes upon
the floor, and said in a low mumbling voice,
I don't know yet what way the ould mother
is getting' on."

Don't you be troubled," said Mrs. Moore,
' about your mother. I saw her last evening ;
and she was quite well. And I suppose the
captain will bring her an account of you,
and make her mind easy. We left him at
the Hall as we came away, and I suppose he
has gone up the Glen by this time."

The ladies then retired. Many visits were
made to the family during the day, by the
neighbouring gentry ; as also by the peasantry,
v/ho were continually coming and going,
and expressing their sympathy for the several
members of the family, as well as for Denny
Mullins. The Earl and Countess of Fair-borough
drove up at an early hour ; and
remained a considerable time. His lordship
was particularly anxious to discover some
clue to the perpetrators of the outrage ; and
examined Denny Mulhns as to his knowledge
of the origin and motives of it. Denny's
account of it was not very explicit, as he did
not like to commit himself in any way that
would tend to involve the name and reputation
of Nelly Bryan. At least, he would
keep everything close in his own mind until
he had an opportunity of conversing at length
upon the subject with his old friend and
confidant, the captain. So his lordship left,
without eliciting any definite information as
to the cause of the attack. There was a
probability, however, in his own mind, that
it originated with the Whitefeet. There was
one thing that puzzled him very much,
namely, the presence of Peter Mackey on the
scene of the outrage; and with fire-arms too.

This was a mystery to everybody who kiiew
Peter, and he was a man who was widely
known.

For days and weeks there was scarcely
any subject spoken of in the country round
save this assault of the Whitefeet upon Ash
Grove House ; and what gave a peculiar zest
to the topic was the fact of Peter Mackey,
the sensible, peaceable, prudent, loyal, conservative
Peter Mackey, being among the
perpetrators of so foul and heinous a transgression
against the laws of his country and
the well-being of society. It is true, there
were some who knew Peter well, and consequently
experienced no surprise when they
heard of his being mixed up in the affray,
who knew him to be a vulgar knave, without
principle, without religion, without scruple;
but always planning his own benefit, without
caring how or by what means that benefit
was secured, or what evil consequences might
resuk to others from its remorseless pursuit.
But those were few among the many who carelessly
regarded his exterior, and took him at
the surreptitious value he put upon himself.
He was, accordingly, looked upon as a proper
and respectable man, and a worthy example
for imitation by all who desired to maintain

a decent position in society, that is, a decent
position for a man of his class. These
persons There, therefore, greatly surprised at
the appearance of Peter among a lawless
gang of depredators and robbers ; and endeavoured
to account for it in some way that
was consistent with their former opinion of
him. It struck them, then, that he must
have been up late that night; and finding,
somehow or other, that something unusual
eras going forward, he remained on the lookout
until he found that Ash Grove House
was going to be attacked; that then he
armed himself, and set out to aid the Granvilless
in repulsing their assailants. This
was a very plausible mode of settling the
matter with themselves. But it happened,
unfortunately for this theory, that a slip of
paper was found in one of the pockets of
Peter's waistcoat after he had been removed
to his own house, and previously to the
holding of the coroner's inquest; and this
paper purported to be a receipt for ten
pounds given by him to Jer Grinnex in consideration
of the said Grinnex performing a
certain mysterious duty in connexion with
Ash Grove House, which, when coupled with
what had actually transpired, could leave no

doubt upon any disinterested mind that the
attack in question, with the view to murder,
was the duty indicated. This receipt was in
the handwriting of Peter Mackey, while the
signature was in that of Jer Grinnex. It
ran as follows : —

"Ballydine, October 17th, 18—

This day I received from Mr. Peter
Mackey the sum of tin pound on condition
to do the work settled betwune us, at Ash
Grove, so as to pick down the bird. provided,
if the bird shapes this turn, he is to
be pursued until he is done for.

Jer Grinned."

The date of this receipt was the day previous
to that of the attack upon Ash Grove
House. So here was very strong circumstantial
evidence that Peter Mackey' s presence
on the occasion in question was not
accidental, nor yet prompted by any benevolent
motive. However, a variety of conjectures
and speculations in connexion with the
whole affair were bandied from mouth to
mouth, and went the circuit of the whole
country. Magistrates, justices, and police
officers were busy everywhere round about

Ballydine ; and some suspicious characters,
found prowling about the country, were
arrested and placed in confinement; but no
material information was elicited, so as to
afford the slightest clue either to the party
who attacked the barrack, or to those who
attacked Ash Grove House. Still fame was
on the wing; and the names of Bartley
Croker and Joe Whitmore besfan to figure in
the narratives that continued to circulate
around the country. Somebody heard that
somebody saw Bartley Croker coming down
the mountain road late that night, and saw
him passing the Ash Grove gate, where he
met a man who came out from behind one of
the piers ; and he saw him speak with the
man for a few seconds, and then saw him
pass on. Another person assured his auditors
that on the same night there was a man
returning from the town of Cushport; and
that when he was coming up towards the
Cross of Ballydine, thinking of nothing, but
looking up at the sky to see what way the
clouds were going, he heard a horse trotting
down the road against him ; that as
soon as he did, he turned into the ditch,
under the trees, to let him pass ; and that
when he was passing he saw Joe Whitmore

on the horse's back, as far as he could judge
in the darkness of the night. But the climax
of all the popular narratives that found birth
on the occasion was this : that two men were
crossing over the hill above Glen Corril the
same night ; and when they came out on the
road leading over to Skark, who should they
see but two gentlemen in a gig a little above
them on the road. So they went behind the
hedge, and crept along quietly, so as to obtain
a near view of the gentlemen ; and who
should they be — for they knew them well —
but Dan O'Connel, the champion of Ireland,
and one Tom Steel. This story ran rapidly
through all the highways and byways of the
country, and jostled out every other narrative
bearing on the subject.

It now began to be generally believed that
the combined movement against the barrack
and Ash Grove House was the work of
O'Connel, and that it was merely preliminary
to the great rising that was so long anticipated.
The captain, as the reader is aware,
was the oracle of Bally dine, and was always
consulted upon matters of high political import
by the peasantry all round. In the
course of a few days after the Ash Grove
affair, he was passing down towards the

Cross of Ballydine, when he saw Iced DooHn
and another man coming up against him.
They appeared to be engaged in some conversation
which greatly interested them, for
they every now and then, as they were approaching
the captain, would stand and gesticulate
as if they were endeavouring to convince
each other of the views which they
respectively entertained. As soon as they
met, the captain asked them what it was
that they seemed to be so earnest about;
when Ned Doolin replied that his companion
wanted to persuade him that O'Connel had
given the word for Ireland to turn out, and
take back her own from the Sassanagh
(Saxon). But he (j^ed Doolin) was showing
his companion the nonsense of all that talk,
since it didn't stand to reason that O'Connel
would do anything that would be so foolish,
or that any man in his senses, not to speak
of O'Connel, would think of the like. So
when they saw the captain coining down
against them, they said to one another that
they would leave it to him to decide which
of them was right and which of them was
wrong. The captain listened to the speaker
with an appearance of grave humour ; for
though he kept his eyes fixed attentively on

him while lie spoke, yet there was in those
eyes a twinkling of drollery which showed
that while he respected the good sense and
honest manliness of Ned Doolin, he could
not help entertaining a feeling of ridicule for
the opinion which he set forth as that of
his companion — an opinion which he knew
was shared b}^ the great bulk of the peasantry
throughout the country. He said in
reply to Doolin, " Your canvas is all square,
Ned ; neither too light nor too heavy for the
craft. When a man's brains are light, his
senses are wheeled about every way, just
like a weather-cock ; and when they are too
heavy, there's no moving him at all. So you
see between the two the right gauge is stationed;
neither too light nor too heavy is
the proper thing. You are right, my boy,
when you say that O'Connel is against anything
and everything that would put the
people in the way of being destroyed. He
is too wise a man, and too good a man for
anything of that sort; his canvas sits too
snug and tight on him to drive him about
'like a whirligig in that way. 'Tis only your
flyblows that like rebellious weather. It
warms them into life ; it gives them a chance
to flutter about for a little while. They are

good for nothing as long as the weather
remains clear and wholesome; but when
clouds and rain, and bursts of sun between
'em, happen to come along, then your fly-blows
flourish and buzz about the same as if
the world was their own ; until the sunshines
out again and drives away the dirt ;
then they can't be seen any longer. That's
the way the thing is, Ned. The best man in
this world is he who does his duty in whatever
corner of life God places him. The worst man
in this world is he who is always waiting for
chances. To conquer the Saxon, indeed !
You might as well try to turn the hill of
Glen Corril there upside down as to conquer
the Saxon. And besides, if you were able to
conquer him tomorrow, what good would
that do you ? No good at all ; but a great
deal of harm. Ned Doolin ! and you, my
good man, listen to what I say ; for I wish
you and all Irishmen to know the truth, and
to follow where it leads ; and never to give
heed to falsehood, and to the brood of delusions,
and conceits, and mockeries that are
born of falsehood. Well, here is the truth
for you. It is far better for this country of
ours to be governed by the Saxon than by
anybody else. Who is the Saxon ? He is a

steady, sensible, hardworking, honest-minded
man, who knows how to take care of his
business, and who is ready to give a helping'
hand to any man that deserves it. He won't
help the idle stroller, to be sure ; and why
should he ? But he'll help the honest, striving,
peaceable man, and put him in the way
of helping' himself and rearing' his family, and
of coin' like himself. He doesn't want to
be bothered with idlers, or hoolamskiaghs
(swaggering bravadoes), or such vermin, and
flyblows that are a disgrace and a curse to
every country they're in. He sweeps those
out of his way, as in duty bound, before God
and man; and he takes to his breast the
good and sensible men who, like himself, are
willing to earn their bread by honest ways.
Now, that's what the Saxon is; and I ask
yourselves — I ask every sensible man, which
is better — to have this man govern us, or
one of those idle rakes and flyblows that are
going' about the country from post to pillar,
lookin' for a chance to pick the pockets of
every honest man they come across ? Which
'of these now, I ask you, would you like to
be head steward over you — the honest, peaceable,
good-minded, sober, industrious Saxon,
or the swaggering', dirty, lazy, scheming',
VOL. Tir. Q

thievish rake? Sure, I needn't ask you, or
any man with a grain of common sense in
his head. O'Connel, indeed ! to try to upset
the country, and turn it into a den of
thieves ! He is the last man in the world
who'd do the like. Oh, no ; he is too knowledgeable
and too good for that. What does
he ever and always say? Here are his
words : * Obey the laws of the land, and be
sober and industrious ; and above all things,
don't attempt to shed a drop of blood.'
That's what he teaches, and that's what our
holy Church teaches, from the Pope of Rome
down to the curate of the smallest village in
the country. And sure we know, too, that
it is the same thing that God's holy Bible
teaches ; and didn't the blessed Apostles and
holy martyrs teach the very same thing ?
Well now, I ask you, who are we to listen
to ? Is it to the rakes and boolamskiaghs
(swaggering bravadoes), the idle, lying',
dirty, scheming', mean, sneaking thieves and
vagabonds, or to O'Connel, the Pope, the
Apostles, the martyrs, the Bible, and the God
of heaven? The Saxon, indeed ! Sure 'tis
a blessing' from heaven that we have such an
honest, steady man to guard us against the
thieves and the rakes. God forbid that we

should ever have one of these skialavelts
(loose-livers) over us. How well, indeed,
we should be off then ; our lives, our properties,
and our liberties at the mercy of all
the wandering' ragamuffins in the country.
No, my friends, this must never happen ; the
people are getting' to open their eyes now,
and they'll be no longer led away like blindfolded
creatures that saw nothing' and knew
nothing."

As the captain was thus sensibly enlarging
on the state and prospects of the country, a
distant cheer came faintly upon his ear. It
was also heard by the two men who were
standing with him. It came again with increased
volume ; and again ; till at length it
burst in a storm upon their ears.

The three men then proceeded together
towards the Cross. A crowd of men and
women and children came up from the Corrig-
castle road towards the Cross, shouting and
scuffling, and waving green boughs above
their heads. In the midst of the crowd was
a gig in which were seated two aged gentlemen,
who every now and then lifted off their
hats and bowed to those around them. The
gig had two long ropes attached to it in front,
and these were held by a hne of men on either
Q 2

side, who thus drew it along amid the cheering
and hurrahing of the throng that accompanied
them. The procession arrived at the
Cross, and then turned up the mountain road,
while the air rang with the shout of '' The
Granville abo!" 'the Gran villes for ever!"
Having arrived at the entrance to Ash Grove
House, the throng entered the gates, and
advanced up the avenue ; while cheers and
hurrahs and cries of '' The Granvilles forever
! " rose into the air. The gig was drawn
up to the hall-door, and Uncle Ben and his
brother. Colonel Felix Brown, descended from
it and entered the house.

Colonel Brown had arrived at Cushport on
the day before, and was met there by his
brother Ben. As soon as it had become known
that they were on their way to Ash Grove the
country people flocked from every side to
meet them ; and they had been no sooner
met than the horse was taken from the gig,
and they were drawn triumphantly along in
the manner we have seen.

But what caused the arrival of Colonel
Brown at this particular time ? We have
seen that for some considerable time no letter
had been received from him by his brother or
any member of the Ash Grove family, and that

therefore Herbert Grranville had made up this
mind to go to him without further delay.
The fact was that the Colonel had been for
Gone time in communication with Lord Milford
in reference to the affairs of his late
brother, Herbert's father, and that his lordship
had expressed a desire to see the colonel
in London as soon as possible, with the view
of making some arrangements relative to that
portion of his estates which had been formerly
held by the Ash Grove family. His lordship's
intention was to restore Gurtroo, now in the
possession of Bartley Croker, to the eldest
son of the late Mr. Granville, and to adopt
such other proceedings in connexion with
this matter as circumstances would warrant.
The colonel saw that there was no time to
be lost ; and so, arranging his own personal
concerns in Canada, he hastened to London,
and there met Lord Milford. They soon
decided upon the matters which brought them
together. The colonel was in possession of
a quantity of correspondence and papers of
various kinds, which he had from time to time
received from his late brother, and which
threw such a flood of light upon the conduct
and proceedings of Bartley Croker as left no
doubt upon the mind of Lord Milford that

the grossest deception, wrong, and fraud had
been committed bj his agent in the management
of his estates. The conclusion of their
interview was that the colonel's nephew,
Herbert Granville, was to take immediate
possession of the property at Gurtroo, and
that the colonel was to act as agent for the
estates until his lordship had further time for
consideration — the colonel having expressed
himself as being unwilling to accept that
position except for the time being.

In the meantime Bartley Croker received
a communication from his lordship, desiring
him to meet him in London, and to take with
him the rent-rolls and other records connected
with the estates. Bartley was necessarily
thrown into a state of trepidation ; but
yet he relied much upon his dexterity and
mental resources to extricate himself from
the difficulties and dangers which he felt to
be gathering around him. He hastened, however,
to comply with the request of his lordship,
and in due time arrived in London.
Lord Milford, who had in the interim studied
the documents which he had received from
Colonel Brown, and made himself acquainted
with all the circumstances connected with the
transactions between the agent and the late

Mr. Granville, placed the whole matter before
Bartley in such a clear and methodical manner
that the latter was completely confounded
and bewildered. His prepared defence became
unavailable, as it had not contemplated
the nature and force of the charges now
brought against him, and he was therefore
obliged to throw himself upon the resources
of the moment, which consisted of quibbles,
equivocations, and denials. But they availed
nothing. His lordship informed him that his
services as agent were dispensed with henceforward,
and that further proceedings against
him would be entrusted to the courts of law.
Thus Bartley Croker, who had hitherto
been wafted along upon the tide of fortune, felt
for the first time in his life that that tide had
now receded from him and left him sprawling
upon the strand. All the iniquities of his
past life came crowding upon his mind, and
he knew not whither he should turn to relieve
himself from the overwhelming perplexity
which was goading him to distraction. He
had no business to detain him any longer in
London, and therefore he returned to Gurtroo,
with an uncertain resolution as to the course
of conduct which it now behoved him to
pursue.

Ash Grove became the scene of unusual
festivity immediately after the colonel's arrival.
On the night following that event
bonfires blazed on every side ; there was one
at the Cross of Ballydine, and another on the
road opposite the entrance to the lawn, and a
dozen others at different points on the roads
and elevated grounds round about the village.
On the next day there was a long dance on
the lawn, and the people came in crowds from
all the villages around to participate in the
enjoyments of the occasion. The Earl and
Countess of Fairborough were there, as were
also Sir Michael Carey and his wife and
daughters, and the Eev. Dr. Markham ; all the
family of Brookfield Hall, and the Cretan,
and the Eev. Mr. Grigger, were also present.
Tables, covered with refreshments, were
ranged in lines along the hall, and the dancers
as well as others went in from time to time
to recruit themselves with the good things
that were there prepared for them. In the
afternoon a large party was entertained at
dinner by the colonel ; and it was not until
near twelve o'clock that the gates at the
entrance to Ash Grove closed upon the last
retiring guest.

CHAPTER XXV.

CONCLUSION.

After Bartley Croker had returned from
London, he commenced an investigation into
the best mode of arranging his future destiny.
He knew now that it was all over with him,
as far as land agencies were concerned. Lord
Milford's discovery of his dishonest and
treacherous proceedings would, of course,
debar him from any employment of that kind
for the future. As to returning to his profession
of attorney, he felt that it was too
late now to think of that. At the best of
times and in his most energetic years he had
not been very successful in that line — he had
been generally regarded as a trickster and
swindler; and no one cared to entrust his
business to him, except those who had no
means to employ a better and safer man ;
or who had nothing to lose, and went to law

only on some wild speculation. To recover
his lost position as agent to the Milford
estates, he felt, was out of the question.
Lord Milford was not a man to alter his
decision when he had once determined to act
in any particular direction. Bartley thus felt
himself fenced in with difficulties ; and, notwithstanding
his varied mental resources, on
which he had hitherto prided himself, and
which had always stood him in good stead in
every pressing emergency, he was now forced
to confess to himself that he was driven into
a corner ; and could see no way of escaping
from his unfortunate position. The arrival
of Colonel Brown, from Canada, was a most
untoward event ; but yet he would not have
set very much value upon that — he thought
he should have been able to get over that, if
it had not been for the unfortunate failure of
the attack on Ash Grove House. If that confounded
fellow — so he designated Herbert
Granville, as he thought of him in the course
of his reveries — had been removed, all other
difficulties would dissolve like snow before
the meridian sun. Had he been removed,
old Colonel Brown, and Uncle Ben, and all
the rest of them would be no more than a
cobweb in his way. His mind again began

to work in the direction of the destinies of
Herbert Grranville. He would not despair ;
something might be done yet. He cast back
his thoughts to the years gone by, and to
some of the events of those years ; and he
saw there difficulties which he had surmounted
; and difficulties too of a dismal
complexion. He would not despair, no ; a
man of genius should never despair. He
began to think that there remained in his
mind resources which had never been called
upon — which no extreme emergency had ever
called upon ; let these be called into requisition
now — now was the time to prove his
great superiority over all men. He would
foil Lord Mile ord ; he would take him on the
point of his lance, and spit him like a
sparrow. He began to wax triumphant in his
own imagination ; and nothing now appeared
to him too difficult to be overcome. He still
fell back upon Joe Whitmore, as the most
convenient weapon for him to handle. Joe
was a jackass, to be sure, and a buffoon ;
but jackass and buffoons were intended for
use. Such animals could not have been made
in vain; they were intended for a purpose, and
that purpose was to subserve the plans and
designs of great and gifted men like himself.

But low was Joe progressing all this
time? He had had some interviews with
Mrs. C redan, Fanny's aunt ; but they were
of a very, very sombre nature. All encouragement
in that quarter was withdrawn
from him. Fanny had solemnly declared that
she would not marry him if there was no
other man in the world but himself — she had
declared this, after every inducement, and
persuasion, and argument had been exhausted
in the endeavour to brings her around to
favour his pretensions. Joe gave up the
contest in despair ; not that he cared much
one way or the other. He hated Herbert
Granville — that he knew at any rate ; but he
didn't know that he loved Fanny Moore ; he
liked to have her — that was all ; pretty much
as he'd like to have any other woman that
came in his way, and for whom he conceived
a present passion. If it hadn't been for
Herbert Granville — for the deep hatred he
bore that gentleman, his passion for Fanny
Moore would have died out long ago. But
now he had no hope. She would not marry
him under any circumstances ; and Herbert
appeared to be getting too influential for him
in every way. Yes, he was now restored to
his father's property ; and the agency of the

Milford estates was looming not far in the
distance for him. Under all these circumstances,
Joe Whitmore gave up the chase,
and gave way to a new passion. He had a
dairy-maid, an elderly woman, of gigantic
stature, and with only one eye, and to her
he now turned with the most devotional zeal.
He called her his Diana, his Venus, his Cleopatra,
and as she resisted his first advances,
and sometimes used her great physical
strength for that purpose, he was fain at last
to lead her to the hymeneal altar, and make
her an honest and a lawful wife, and mistress
of Castle Whitmore. Joe's life, after this,
was a caution to all romantic lovers. His
Diana ruled her household, Joe included, with
an iron rod, and, " as for ladies, and things
of that sort," she declared her thorough contempt
for them. The ladies, indeed, kept
clear of her ; and so did the gentlemen, with
the exception of one or two penniless rowdies
who found Joe's cellar, as well as his table, a
convenient resort in times of scarcity. These
rowdies were fortunate enough to fall into
the good graces of the lady of the mansion,
who always declared her high esteem
for them, and her solemn belief that they
were the only real gentlemen in that side of

the country. But Bartley Croker had the
entree, too ; he was in particular favour with
Mrs. Whitmore : she said, and " would always
maintain it, that he was a gentleman to the
backbone, and so she liked him in her heart
she did so in troth''

It was about this time, or at least shortly
after Joe's marriage, that Bartley Croker
made a visit to Castle Whitmore. He was
received by the mistress of the Castle with
great good feeling ; and as for Joe he was
delighted beyond expression to see his worthy
and faithful friend once again under his roof.
It must be remembered that Bartley' s troubles
had kept him away for some time from
Castle Whitmore. What between his visit to
London to answer the summons of his employer.
Lord Milford, and his other occupations
and distractions consequent upon that
visit, he had had but very little time on his
hands to devote to his friend Joe. Besides,
Joe was not a man to whom he cared to confide
his secrets, and from whom he would look
for any consolation in his troubles. Indeed,
as the reader must be well aware, he regarded
Joe, and used him, as a mere tool for carrying
out any low scheme or project he might
have had in hand. But as to seeking advice

from him, or consulting him upon any important
matter, there was nothing more remote
from Bartley's mind at any time than doing
such a foolish elinor ag that. So that his visit
at this time was altogether unconnected with
his private affairs, that is, as far as looking
for advice, or seeking the aid of Joe's judgment
and discretion was concerned. Well, at
all events, he made his visit, and was, as we
have said, received with great cordiality by
the lord and lady of the Castle. It was late
in the evening when he drove up, and Joe
happened to be out, looking after some matters
connected with certain improvements which
he was making in a part of his demesne.
Bartley was met at the hall-door by Mrs.
Whitmore ; and after having been seized by
the hand, and shaken with great vigour by
that lady, he was conducted into the back
sitting-room, and seated by the fire. Mrs.
Whitmore sat beside him in easy and familiar
conversation, placing her huge hand occasionally
on his knee in confirmation of her
remarks, and sometimes giving him a punch
in the side with her clenched fist, with the
same object.

And where the d 1 were you, at all,

at all, this time back ? " she went on to say.

Sure Joe was ain' myself what happened
you, that lie didn't see you for ever so long."

'' Well, Mrs. Whitmore, I have been rather
busy this time back, and haven't had a moment
to spare to call upon my friends."

'' Busy ! Whatever makes you so busy
always? I never seen the like. You puts
me in mind of the braccady cow that's ever
and always busy coin' some harm or other.
There, the other day she broke into the garden,
and played the d 1 wit everything in

it. I don't know what to do with her at all,
at all. Maybe, you'd want to buy her, Mr.
Croker ? "

''N'o, I don't require any increase of stock
at present ; in fact, I would rather dispose of
some of my cattle."

'' Now, tell me, how's the ould woman
getting' on ? Why didn't you bring her wit
you when you were coming' down ? Sure
you know I'd be very glad to see her. But
I'm forge thin' myself — I never axed what

would you take — there's the d 1 of it. Wil

you take something' hot ? You'll have it took
before this fellow comes in."

I thank you, Mrs. Whitmore ; I shall take
nothing at present."

Do, now, aftheryour drive. And 'tis such

could weather besides ; you'd want something
to warm you. Faith, Joe takes a horn every
hour in the day to warm his heart ; and sure
a man is nothing' without a Httle drop now and
then to put misnagh (spirit) in him. I'll go
and bring you a warm drop."

No, Mrs. Whitmore, I'd hath or not, thank
you. By-and-by, when Mr. Whitmore comes
in, I shall take a glass of wine with him. To
tell you the truth, I have already taken some
spirits. I had only just dined before I left
the house ; and I took a tumbler of whisky-punch
after dinner, besides a few glasses of
wine."

"Oh, drat the wine; what's the good of
it for a man? There's my Jc3, now; he
wouldn't give a straw for all th 3 wine in the
world, without putting a sthaul (a dash) of
whisky over it. You won't take it now.
Well, when Joe '11 come in by-and-by, ye must
have a hot tumbler together. Tell me, Mr.
Croker," — here she leant over, putting her
hand upon his shoulder and her face close upto

his, — " tell me; what the d 1 is all this

about the Granvilles ? They tell me for certain
that the ould colonel is to be the agent
of Lord Milford now; and that the young
fellow is only waiting to get it himself the

VOL. III. R

minute he'll be married to that shlcit (silly
creature) of a thing, Fanny Moore."

'' I believe there is some truth in that
report, though I cannot vouch for it."

*' Ah, then, upon my soul, if I was you, Vd
put a bit o' lead in that fellow's gizzard.
What call have he to be agent ? The like of
him of a conceited whelp ? And Fanny Moore,
too ! Och, the likes o' those sickens me.
Ladies and gentlemen indeed ! By my soul
'twould be fitter for some of 'em to earn
their bread in honesty than to be pretending
be ladies and gentlemen when they haven't
as much as 'ud jingle on a griddle. Isn't it
three for me, Mr. Croker ? "

'' Yes, I agree with you, that there is a
great deal of vain pretension among some
people that is not at all becoming. I know,"
here he spoke in a low and confidential
strain, — "I know that the Granville family are
not friends of your husband, or of yourself.
Indeed, that young fellow Herbert has spoken,
as I have been told, in a most improper
manner of you. But as I said, when I heard
it, you are not obliged to bow to him any
day ; you are as respectable as he is, or any
of his family — I might say more so, indeed.
You, at any rate, never demeaned yourself

bj going about looking for favours, and
trying to keep up a consequence by mean
and beggarly ways*'

Spoke o' me, did they ? To the d 1

I bob 'em all. I'm unbehouldin' to 'em, and
always was. "What have they to say to me?
I am an honest father and mother's child ;
and maybe, that's more than some o' themselves
are. But what call have they to be
talking' about me ? Let 'em take care o' what
they're saying'. I have people belonging' tome
that wouldn't be long about putting' a
flay in their ear."

'exactly; so I said at the time. It is
highly improper for an upstart fellow, like
Herbert Granville, to be maligning the
character of a respectable woman Hke you.
There are your brothers, and your cousins,
respectable men ; and men too, who love
their country, and have the spirit to stand
up for her too. That's more than can be
said of that nincompoop, Herbert Granville.
And I tell you this," — he placed his mouth at
her ear, and whispered softly, — "Herbert
Granville would hang every one of the
Whitefeet tomorrow, if he only had the
opportunity. What chance, then, I ask you,
have your brothers, or any one of those who
B 2

are trying to riglitify their country — what
chance have they of their lives as long as
Herbert Granville has his eyes upon them ?

Mrs. Whitmore's eyes flashed fire, and
her bosom rose and fell like an agitated sea.
But at this moment Joe Whitmore entered
the room. She stood up, shuffled about the
apartment for a few minutes, and then went
out. Joe and his friend talked for awhile on
indifferent subjects, and then retired to the
library, where they would be more to themselves,
and could indulge more comfortably
in their libations. After talking for a time
about the change that had taken place in
the management of the Milford estates, and
of the transfer of the Gurtroo property back
to the Granvilles, Bartley assumed an appearance
of perfect indifference as far as he
himself was concerned, and only regretted
what had taken place on the ground of the
overbearing insolence of the Granville family,
but most especially of that " young scoundrel,
Herbert."

The fellow triumphs," he observed, '' over
those who are his superiors in every sense,
and loses no opportunity of turning them
into ridicule. Besides, he is trying to curry
favour with the Government by informing

upon every man who is connected with that
Wliitefoot organization. I condemn the
organization myself, as one not calculated todo
any good ; but then I should not take
advantage of it in order to serve my own
purposes. I put this matter to you, Whit-more,
as an honest and independent man.
Are you to be treated with contempt, ay, and
with personal injury — I speak advisedly — by
such a fellow as Herbert Granville ? He scoffs
at yourself; he scoffs at your wife, a lady
whom I respect, and whom every gentleman
should respect, for her virtuous and estimable
qualities. And even here he is not satisfied
to stop ; he would bring disgrace upon her
family by trying to implicate her brothers
and cousins in this AYhitefoot business, and
getting them hanged, or transported at least.
And through them he would desire to cast
dishonour upon you. Look here, Whitmore,"
he lowered his voice, and spoke with a slow
and measured emphasis, " your wife's brothers
may, if they please, shut his mouth. Do
you understand ? "

Whitmore, who was gulping his wine very
freely during this speech, looked dreamily at
Bartley as he had concluded, and said, '' What
have you done with that hundred pounds I

gave you on account of that Ash Grove
affair ? That was a botched job, crack !
I've never heard of such a thing. But the
money, Croker ? Where is the money ? "

My dear Whitmore, I expended it and a
great deal more upon those fellows, those
cowardly dogs whom Peter Mackey employed.
They would not move an inch until they gotten
pounds a man, that is, the common men ;
but their leader, Grinnex, had to be paid
double that sum, I paid him ten pounds
myself, and I gave Mackey ten pounds
more to pay him on the day preceding the
attack. Then Mackey would not move
before I paid him thirty pounds. So you
see, my dear sir, that your hundred pounds
was nothing. I had to supplement it largely.
But I shouldn't mind that if the business
had been properly conducted. They were
not the men, my dear Whitmore ; they were
not the men to be entrusted with important
business of that sort. No, sir, not at all, sir.
If your brothers-in-law would only undertake
a thing of that sort, do you think a failure
would take place ? Do you think it could
take place ? Do you think it possible that
it should take place ? Herbert Granville
triumphs over you. He does. He avails

himself of every occasion to do so ; especially
since your marriage. Do lier brothers know
this ? Do her relatives know this ? I should
look to it if I were you. But yet it is no
business of mine. Perhaps I should not have
spoken of the matter at all. Nor should I,
but that I feel interested, as you must be
aware, in everything that affects your honour,
and the honour of your family."

*' I must look to it," replied Joe, " I must
look to it. I am proud of my wife, I tell
you that, Croker, I am proud of my wife.
She may not be everything that a man might
desire ; but she is a woman whom I can
esteem ; and I do esteem her ; and I shall
permit no man to speak with disrespect of her.
Let Granville not meddle with my wife, or
my wife's family ; let him beware. Crack !
I need but lift my finger, and the thing was
done. Her brothers — and her cousins ! — why,
sir, I need but do that, and the thing was
accomplished."

He filliped with his thumb and forefinger
as he uttered the last sentence. Bartley at
once took up the idea : " Yes, Whitmore,
you are right," he said, 'you need but do
that, just that, and the thing was accomplished."


It is remarkable to what lengths the spirit
of revenge may carry men of evil disposition.
Bartley Croker could have had no motive of
personal interest at this time in compassing
the destruction of Herbert Granville ; at
least, there seemed to exist no ground for
such motive, for the relation that had existed
between himself and his late employer, Lord
Milford, had altogether ceased, and there did
not exist the slightest hope, on his part, of
its being ever restored. And notwithstanding
this, his hatred towards Herbert Granville
was such as to impel him to scheme and plot
for his destruction. This was the object
which induced him to visit Joe Whitmore
this evening; and he felt now satisfied that
Joe would act upon the suggestion which he
had so insidiously thrown out for his adoption.
The old dairy-maid's brothers, that is the
brothers of Mrs. Whitmore, were daring,
reckless fellows, who would not hesitate to
take part in any design that invited their
passions of hatred and revenge. They were
members of the Whitefoot organization, and
were regarded with terror by the moderate
men of their own party. They were always
ready for any enterprise of a daring character,
they were full of courage, reckless of consequences,

and devoid of every principle of
morality and religion. They had been brought
up in the streets of Corrigcastle, a brood of
midnight scavengers, and were now leading
a life of semi-vagrancy, sometimes employed
about the bacon-yards and breweries of the
town, and sometimes scouring the country,
at night, in the capacity of Whitefeet.
Bartley Croker having now satisfied himself
that he had securely placed his train, had no
further object in wasting the hours with Joe
Whitmore, so he rose to depart. The night
had set in, and given indications of stormy
weather, so that he felt anxious to get to his
own house, which was seven or eight miles
distant, before the storm should break over
his head. He mounted his gig at the hall-door,
and his servant, taking the reins, drove
off at an easy pace down the lawn, and out
upon the public road. The night became
more and more threatening as they went
along ; the clouds were heavy and dark ; and
the wind came in fitful gusts, bearing a
sprinkling of thin rain upon its wings. They
were now driving along at a rapid pace upon
the road that crossed the hill within a couple
of miles of Gurtroo, when some animal, a dog
or fox, rushed from the hedge on the right

:ai£if alli r^fnn? from laie liriyeEC':: bun lie hair.

-vda. i OTcn^. ami Je insert* tu* ifimi^ hid

vKworatL nit* r^soi^ jzxt ^omtir inmeL ami
vinifiX3&etL :iii purse tic js In? wtn* t^iwwb^ t^
iiH!!n«-aiiusf in :diei r^aiifflde. Z:^
Hut jHt ~Tt* horse TiTir? the: :hr!:i
JHwnur xrvj?n inn

Tim 3B3r?3aaia. jjcl - - : . - ^^e

TTOO- :3BS: msd. Tiny ^Liiik ion to and
ai — ' t ^f "iTTTT la hier ^aocn-ainiBe :. ie never

-woft :air "^if jE Bbc ' iks!:^ en nrm-voiise

one ZL JBBr "Alii "i.ir^ J'*'UiilU?aCiHTT IT Hlf

^woaii 1T7.1TTT. ^ruLnmr '^:^"' r locnc uie

«» —

UJJe£3L

"VTifiii. m Tariff nnLawms: ijssr. Z*vt ^^Trnnnxis

received mtelligouco of tho sheldon death of
this friend, he felt a sudden shock : but it was
a :?liock which bad more relation to his own
individual and selfish interests than to 
that concerned the interests, temporal
or spiritual, of his dead friend. He felt
neither pity nor regret for him : but he felt
that he himself was deprived oi a sort of
support, or iv^ource, or refuge for his weak
and drivelling rogueries. Joe was a badman,
without the ability necessary to nurse
and strengthen his roguish disposition : but
Bartley was a thorough knave, with all the
qualities and acquirements essential to the
execution of the most villainous designs.
They were a need to each other : and hence
Whitmore was shocked when he heard that
his support, was suddenly taken from under
him. But we shall pass from the contemplation
of these scenes and objects of human
depravity, and direct the reader's attention
to more kindly and agreeable subjects.

Colonel Brown, having established himself
with his brother and sister at Ash Grove
H ■", '^'"ame soon acquainted with all the
c :pisces relating to the different meme;

the family. He knew of the engager:

: : been his nephew, Herbert Granville,

and Miss Moore; and also of that between
his niece Julia Granville and Henry Moore.
He approved of both ; and expressed his
desire to have them carried out without
delay. He and his old friend, George Moore,
were constantly together ; and they had
agreed upon the desirableness of the double
match. Mrs. Moore and her sister Mrs.
Credan were now of one accord as to the
excellence of the arrangement, and only
wondered at themselves for not having long
since seen how suitable and desirable it was
in every point of view. In fact, according to
their present view of the matter, nothing in
the world could be more fitting, or better
calculated to accomplish the happiness of all
parties. Mrs. Credan "was always sure,"
so she said, '' that it was just the right
thing, for lier niece idolized Herbert Granville,
and Herbert Granville idolized her.
And where could you find a more accomplished,
a more elegant, and a more noble-minded
man than Herbert Granville ? He
was a match for a princess ; and her niece
was the happiest of women to have won the
love of such a man. And as for Julia
Granville, she was a charming creature — so
amiable, so graceful, so accomplished, her

nephew was most fortunate in having obtained
the affections of such a woman." In
short, all were delighted with the whole
arrangement, and we need nofc inform the
reader — for he, or she, already knows it as
well as ourselves — that the parties immediately
concerned were the most delighted of
all, for to them the hour of their union was
the goal of their dearest wishes, and the
consummation of their earthly happiness.

A few weeks passed over, and the final
arrangements were made for the bridal ceremony.
Both couples were to be married on
the same evening ; and the ceremony was to
take place at Ash Grove House. This latter
part of the arrangement was adopted at the
instance of the colonel, notwithstanding the
efforts of the Moores and the Cretan in
favour of Brookfield Hall. The Rev. Dr.
Markham was to bind the golden knot in
both cases ; and the colonel was to give away
Julia. These formed the specific portions of
the colonel's arrangements ; to any other
hearts of the general programme he was not
particularly wedded. A large party assembled
at Ash Grove House on the evening of
the wedding. The Earl and Countess of
Fairborough, accompanied by Lord Milford,

were amongst the first arrivals. Sir Michael
Carey and his two daughters were present ;
as were also the Rev. Mr. Grigger, Geoffrey
Credan, of Mooloch, his wife, son and
daughters, and several members of the
aristocratic families of the county.

The servants' hall was crowded with the
sons and daughters of the surrounding
peasantry ; even the aged heads of families,
men and women, came "to have a look at
Miss Julia and Miss Fanny — the darling' ladies
in their lovely wedding' dresses. And sure,
they also wanted to look at their noble
Master Herbert, and at Master Moore.
May the blessing's of heaven rest upon their
hearts this night."

The captain was there, in a span-new
suit — a bottle-green frock-coat, and striped
trousers, with green vest, and neck-cloth of
the same colour — provided specially for the
occasion. He danced a hornpipe in the
drawing-room, in his very best style, to the
music of the piano ; and received the plaudits
of all present. The colonel took wine with
him, and spoke of him in terms of affectionate
regard. The ladies chatted familiarly with
him ; and Julia and Fanny, now Mrs. Moore
and Mrs. Granville, presented him each with

a bridal memento. Denny Millions was therein
the " height of good spirits," so he said.
And, after having played for some time in
the servants' hall, he was sent for to the
drawing-room, where he played his best
plantes and jigs, and received the warmest
approbation of the ladies and gentlemen.
He played " Haste to the Wedding " for
Master Herbert and his lady, and then a
quadrille, in which Lord and Lady Fair-borough,
Lord Milford, Sir Michael Carey,
the Misses Carey, and some others took part.
Denny was not forgotten by the brides —
they each presented him with a gift, and he
felt himself to be *• one of the happiest menin
all Ireland that minute." Soon after,
Ned Doolin and Bill Clearyy, with Peggy
Cummins and Judy Casey, were performing a
single reel in the hall to Denny's best music,
while Paddy Larkin and Anty Dreelin were
seated at a table at the upper end of the
apartment, in company with Mr. Moore's fat
butler, and with Nelly Corcoran and her
granddaughter Ninny Rice, enjoying themselves
over a dish of roast beef and plum-pudding,
with a garnish of turkey and wildfowl,
enlivened with the sparkle of port wine
and whisky in large decanters. There was

merriment in the drawing-room, and there
was merriment in the hall. The drawing-room
guests retired about three o'clock the
following morning, but the revellers in the
hall kept it up for two hours longer. They
then broke up, and as Nelly Corcoran was
passing out through the hall, holding her
granddaughter by the hand, she whispered
into Denny's ear, " Didn't I tell you how
'twould be?"

THE END.

PBIKTEB BX Gilbert AND ElVIKGTON, LIMITED, BT. JOHN'S SQTTABE, B.C.

Imported by Messrs. Sampson Low & Co. can

be had on application.

Crown Buildings, i88, Fled Street, London ^
September, 1883.

a J>eIectiou from tie Sis^t of 33ocife$

PUBLISHED Pay

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEA RLE, & Livingston.

ALPHABETICAL LIST.

/I BOUT Some Fellows. By an Eton Boy, Author of "A
"^^ Day of my Life." Cloth limp, square imo, 2s. 6</.
Adams {C. K.^ Manual of Historical Literature. Crown Svo,

\2s. 6d.
Alcott louisa M.). Jack and Jill. imo, 5^".

Proverb Stories. imo, y. 6d.

Old-fashioned Thanksgiving Day. 3.?. dd,

Shawl Straps. 2s. 6d.

See also " Low's Standard Novels" and "Rose Library."

Aldrich {T. B.) Friar Jerome's Beautiful Book, c^c. Very

choicely printed on band-made paper, parchment cover, tes. 6d.
Poetical JVorks. Edition de Luxe. Very handsomely

bound and illustrated, 21s.
Allen {F. A.) Pock me to Sleep, Mother. With 18 full page

Illustrations, elegantly bound, cap. 4to, american
Men of Letters. Lives of Thoreau, Irving, Webster.

Small post Svo, cloth, 2s. 6d. each.
Anderse?i hans Christian) Fairy Tales. With 10 full-page

Illustrations in Colours by E. V. B. Cheap Edition, angler'
s Strange Experiences {An^. By Cotswold Isis. With

numerous Illustrations, 4to, dangling.
See " British Fisheries Directory," " Cutcliffe,"

Lambert," "Martin," and " Theakston."
Archer {WilliaTii) English Dramatists of To-dav. Crown Svo,

8^. dd.
Arnold {G. M.) Pohcrt Cock, the Gravesend Historian.

Crown 8vo, cloth, 5j.
A?-t Education. See "Biographies of Great Artists," "Illustrated
Text Books," "Mollett's Dictionary."
Audsley {G. A.) Ornamental Arts of japan. 90 Plates, 74

in Colours and Gold, with General and Descriptive Text. 2 vols

folio, ;^ 1 6 icy.

Audsley {G. A.) The Art of Chromo-Lithography. Coloured

Plates and Text. Folio, 63^.
Audsley {^W. and G.A.) Outlines of Ornament. Shall folio,

very numerous Illustrations, 3Ij-. dd.
Auerbach {B.) Spinoza. Translated. 2 vols,, imo, 4^.

Baldwin (/.) Story of Siegfried. Emblematical binds

ing, 6 J.

Bankruptcy : Inutility of the Laws. Lord Sherbrooke's Remedy.
Crown 8vo, is.

Bathgate alexander) Waitaruna : A Story of New Zealand
Life. Crown 8vo, cloth, 5^.

Batley (A. IF.) Etched Studies for Interior Decoration. Imperial
folio, ^2s. 6d.

THE BAYARD SERIES.

Edited by the late J. Hain Friswell.

Comprising Pleasure Books of Literature produced in the Choicest Style as
Companionable Volumes at Home and Abroad.

"We can hardly imagine better books for boys to read or for men to ponder
over." — Times.

Price 2S. 6d. each Volnvte, complete in itself, flexible cloth extra, gilt edges,
with silk Headbands and Registers.

The Story of the Chevalier Bayard.
By M. De Servile.

De Joinville's St. Louis, King of
France.

The Essays of Abraham Cowley, including
all his Prose works.

Abdallah ; or. The Four Leaves.
By Edward Laboullaye.

Table-talk and Opinions of Napoleon
Buonaparte.

Vathek : An Oriental Romance.
By William Beckford.

Words of Wellington : Maxims and
Opinions of the Great Duke.

Dr. Johnson's Tassels, Prince of
Abyssinia. With Notes.

Hazlitt's Round Table. With Biographical
Introduction.

The Religio INIedici, Hydriotaphia,
and the Letter to a Friend. By
Sir Thomas Browne, Kent.

Ballad Poetry of the Affections. By
Robert Buchanan.

Coleridge's Christened, and other
Imaginative Poems. With Preface
by Algerian C. Swinburne.

Lord Chesterfield's Letters, Sentences,
and Maxims. With Introduction
by the Editor, and
Essay on Chesterfield by M. de
Ste.-Beuve, of the French Academy.


The King and the Commons. A
Selection of Cavalier and Puritan
Songs. Edited by Professor Morley.

Essays in Mosaic. By Thos. Ballads


My Uncle Toby ; his Story and his
Friends. Edited by P. Fitzgemlci.

Reflections; or. Moral Sentences and
Maxims of the Duke de la .


Socrates : Memoirs for English
Readers from Xenophon's Memorabilia.
By Edw. Levied.

Prince Albert's Golden Precepts.

A Case containing 12 Volniiics, price t,\s. 6d.; or the Case separately, price ^T.6d.

Bell major) : Rama — Spain, From Iriui to Herbert.

Crown 8vo, Si". 6^/.
Bearers' German Copybooks. In six gradations at 4^. each.
Bart ancien) Adventures of a Young Naturalist. Edited and

adapted by Parker Gillmore. With 117 Illustrations on Wood.

Post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, New Edition, 7^-. dd.

BickerstetKs Hymnal Companion to Book of Common Prayer

may be had in various styles and bindings from \d. to 2\s. Price

List and Prospectus quill be forwarded on application.
Bicker seeth rev. E. H.^ A/.A.) The Clergyman in his Home.

Small post 8vo, \s.
Evangelical Churchmanship and Evangelical Eclecticism.

8vo, \s.
From Year to Year : a Collection of Original Poetical

Pieces. Small post Svo.
■ The Master's Home Call ; or, Brief Memorials of Alice

Frances Bickersteth. 20th Thousand. 32mo, cloth gilt, \s.
The Master's Will. A Funeral Sermon preached on

the Death of Mrs. S. Gurney Buxton. Sewn, 6(/. ; cloth gilt, \s.
The Shadow of the Bock. A Selection of Religious

Poetry. imo, cloth extra, 2s. 6d.
The Shadowed Home arid the Light Beyond. 7th

Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, 5^.
Bilbrough {E. J.) " Twixt France and Spain '^ [Ln the press.
Biographies of the Great Artists illustrated). Crown Svo,

emblematical binding, 3J. dd. per volume, except where the price is given.

Claude Lorrain.*

Correggio, by M. E. Seaton, 2s. (yd.

Delia Robbia and Cellini, is. 6d.

Albrecht Diner, by R. F. Heath.

Figure Painters of Holland.

FraAngelico,Masaccio,andBotticelli.

Fra Bartolommeo, Albertinelli, and

Andrea del Sarto.
Gainsborough and Constable.
Ghiberti and Donatello, 2s. 6d.
Giotto, by Harry Quilter.
Hans Holbein, by Joseph Randall.
Hogarth, by Austin Dobson.
Landseer, by F. G. Stevens.
Lawrence and Romney, by Lord

Ronald Gower, 2s. 6d.
Leonardo da Vinci.
Little Masters of Germany, by W.

B. Scott.

Net yet published.
A 2

IMantegna and Francis.
Messenger, by J. W. Mollett, 2s. 6d.
Michelangelo Buonarotti,by Clement.
Murillo, by Ellen E. Minor, 2s. 6d.
Overbear, by J. B. Atkinson.
Raphael, by N. Dangers.
Rembrandt, by J. W. Mollett.
Reynolds, by F. S. Pulling.
Rubens, by C. W. Rest.
Tintoretto, by W. R. Osier.
Titian, by R. F. Heath.
Turner, by Cosmo Workhouse.
Vandyke and Hals, by P. R. Head.
Velasquez, by E. Stowe.
Vernet and Delaroche, by J. R.

Rees.
Watteau, by J. W. Mollett, 2s. 6d.
Wilkie, by J. W. Mollett.

Bird {F. J.) American Practical Dyr.r's Companion. 8vo, 425.

Bird {H, E) Chess Practice. 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Black ( Wen.) Novels. See " Low's Standard Library."

Blackburn henry) Breton Folk : An Artistic Tour in Brittany.
With 171 Illustrations by Randolph Caldecott. Imperial 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt edges, 2\s.', plainer binding, vos. 6d.

Pyrenees the). With 100 Illustrations by Gustave

Work, corrected to 1881. Crown Svo, 7^-. 6d.

Blackmore {R. D.) Lorna Done. Edition deluge. Crown 4to,
very numerous Illustrations, cloth, gilt edges, '^\s. 6d.; parchment,
uncut, top gilt, 35J-. Cheap Edition, small post Svo, novels.

See " Low's Standard Library."

Bailie {Williani) How to get Strong and how to Stay so.
A Manual of Rational, Physical, Gymnastic, and other Exercises.
With Illustrations, small post Svo, boats

of the World, Depicted and Described by one of the Craft.
With Coloured Plates, showing every kind of rig, 4to, "^s. 6d.

Bock cart). The Head Hunters of Borneo: Up the Mahah
kan, and Down the Baryta; also Journeyings in Sumatra, i vol.,
super-royal Svo, 32 Coloured Plates, cloth extra, 36^.

Temples and Elephants. A Narrative of a Journey

through Upper Siam and Lao. With numerous Coloured and other
Illustrations, Svo.

Berwick james) First Twenty Years of Australia Crown
8vo, 5j.

Port Philip Settlement. Svo, numerous Illustrations, 21s,

Bor7teo» See Bock.

Banquet rev. C) Blossoms from the King's Garden : Sermons
for Children, 2nd Edition, small post Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Boulevard (Z.) Crusoe of Guiana ; or, the White Tiger,
Illustrated by J. Feat. "js. 6d.

Boy's Froissart. King Arthur. Abingdon. Percy. See
Lanier.

Brads ha7u {/.) New Zealand as it is. Svo, 1 2s. 6d.

Brasses lady) Tahiti With 31 Autotype Illustrations after
Photos, by Colonel StuartAVortley. Cap. 4to, very tastefully
bound, 2 1 J.

Brune wilhelm) Gothic Grammar. Translated by G. IL

Bull, 3.f. dd.

Brisse {Baroii) Menus (366, one for each day of the year). Each
Menu is given in French and English, with the recipe for making
every dish mentioned. Translated from the French of Baron Brussels
Mrs. Matthew Clarke. 2nd Edition. Crown 8vo, british

Fisheries Directory 1883-84. Small 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Brittany. See Blackburn.

Broglie due de) Frederick II. and Maria Theresa. 2 vols.,
8vo, 30^-.

Browne (G. Latona) Narratives of Nineteenth Century State
Trials. First Period : From the Union with Ireland to the Death
of George IV., 1801 — 1830. 2nd Edition, 2 vols., crown 8vo, cloth, 26-.

Brome {Len?iox) and Belike remit) Voice, Song, and Speech.
Medium 8vo, cloth.

Bryant {IV. C.) and Gay {S. H.) History of the United States.
4 vols., royal 8vo, profusely Illustrated, cos.

Bryce rev. Professor) Manitoba : its History, Growth, and
Present Position. Crown 8vo, with Illustrations and Maps, ^s. 6d.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. With 138 original Woodcuts.
Small post 8vo, cloth gilt, 3J'. (>d.

Burnaby capt.) On Horseback through Asia Minor. 2 vols.,
8vo, 38i-. Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, los, 6d.

Burnaby mrs. F.) High Alps in Winter; or, Mountaineering
in Search of Health. By Mrs. Fred Burnaby. With Portrait of
the Authoress, Map, and other Illustrations. Handsomely bound in
cloth, I4J-.

Butler ( W. F.) Tie Great Lone Land ; an Account of the Red
River Expedition, 1869-70. With Illustrations and Map. Fifth and
Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 'js. 6d.

Invasion of England, told twenty years after, by an Old

Soldier. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

— Red Cloud ; or, the Solitary Sioux. Imperial imo,
numerous illustrations, gilt edges, ys. 6d.

The Wild North Land ; the Story of a Winter Journey

with Dogs across Northern North America. Demy 8vo, cloth, with
numerous Woodcuts and a Map, 4th Edition, i8j. Cr. 8vo, ']s. 6d,

Buxton {H. y. W.) Paintings English and American, ^^^ith
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 5^-.

nADOGAN lady A.) Illustrated Games of Patience.
^ Twenty-four Diagrams ia Colours, with Descriptive Text. Foolscap
4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 3rd Edition, 12^. 61/.

California. see " Nordhoff."

Cambridge Staircase (A). By the Author of "A Day of my

Life at Eton." Small crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. ct.
Cambridge Trifles ; or, Spluttering from an Undergraduate

Pen, By the Author of "A Day of my Life at Eton," &c. imo,

cloth extra, 2s. 6d.
Capelle {H.) and Ives (i?.) From Bengiiella to the Territory

of Dacca. Translated by Alfred Ewes. With Maps and over

130 full-page and text Engravings. 2 vols., 8vo, \2s.

Carleton ( W.). See " Rose Library."

Carlyle (T) Reminiscences of my Irish Journey in 1849.

Crown 8vo, 'js. dd.
Carnegie (A.) American Four-in-hand in Britain. Small

4to, Illustrated, loj-. 6^/.

Chairman's Handbook the). By R. F. D. Palsgrave, Clerk of
the Table of the House of Commons. 5th Edition, enlarged and
re-written, 2s.

Challamel {M. A.) History of Fashion in France. With 21
Plates, coloured by hand, satin-wood binding, imperial 8vo, exchanged

Cross {The\ and other Religious Poems. imo, 2s. 6d.
Charities of London. See Low's.

Chattock (F. S.) Practical Notes on Etching. Second Edition,

8vo, 7J-. dd.
Chess. See Bird (H. E.).

China. See Colquhoun.

Choice Editions of Choice Books. 2s. 6d. each. Illustrated by
C. W. Cope, R.A., T. Keswick, R.A., E. Duncan, Birket
Foster, J. C. Horsey, A.R.A., G. Hicks, R. Redgrave, R.A.,
C. Stonehouse, F. Taylor, G. Thomas, H. J. Townshend,
E. H. Weiinert, Harrison Weir, &c.

Bloomfield's Farmer's Boy.
Campbell's Pleasures of Hope.
Coleridge;? Ancient Mariner.
Goldsmith's Deserted Village.
Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield.
Gray's Elegy in a Churchyard.
Neat's Eve of St. Agnes.

Milton's L' Allegro.
Poetry of Nature. Harrison Weir.
Rogers' (Sam.) Pleasures of Memory,
shakespeare's Songs and Sonnets.
Tennyson's May Queen.
Elizabethan Poets.
Wordsworth's Pastoral Poems.

Such works are a glorious beatification for a poet." — Aihenceutn,

Christ in Song. By Dr. Philip Chaff. A New Edition,

revised, cloth, gilt edges, ds. ■
Chrojno- Lithography. See ''Audsley.*'

Cid ballads of the). By the Rev. Gerard Lewis. Cap.
8vo, parchment, 2s. 6d.

Clay charles M.) Modern Hagar. 2 vols., crown Svo, 2\s.

See also " Rose Librar)-.-'
Colquhoun (A. J^.) Across Chryse ; From Canton to Mandalay.

^Vith Maps and very numerous Illustrations, 2 vols., Svo, /\2s.
Composers. See "Great Musicians."

Confessions of a Frivolous Girl ( The : A Novel of Fashionable

Life. Edited by Robert Grant. Crown Svo, paper boards, i^.
Cook (Dutton) Book of the Play. New and Revised Edition.

I vol., cloth extra, y. 6d.
On the Stage: Studies of Theatrical History and the

Actor's Art. 2 vols., Svo, cloth, 24^.
Comte {IV.) Wanderings South by Fast. Illustrated, Svo, 21s.

New and Cheaper Edition, los. 6d.

Western Pacific. Illustrated, Grown Svo, 2s. 6d.

Costume. See Smith (J. Moor).

Cruise of the Walnut Shell the). An instructive and amusing
Story, told in Rhyme, for Children. With 32 Coloured Plates.
Square fancy boards, 5^.

Curtis {C. B.) Velasquez and Murillo. With Etchings &c.,
Roj'al Svo, 31^-. 6r/. ; large paper, 63^-.

CutclifJ'e {H. C. ) Trout Fishing in Rapid Streams. Cr. Svo, 3^". dd.

PJANVFRS {N.) An Elementary History of Art. Crown
J-^ Svo, IOJ-. ^d.

Elementary Llistojy of Music. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

Handbook of Elementary Art — Architecture ; Sculpture

; Old Masters : Modem Painting. CroAvn Svo, 35. 6d. each.
Day of My Life {A) ; or. Every-Day Experiences at Eton.

By an Eton Boy, Author of "About Some Fellows." imo, cloth

extra, zs. 6d. 6th Thousand.

Days Collaco?i : an Encyclopaedia of Prose Quotations. Imperial
Svo, cloth, 3 1 J. 6d.

Decoration. Vol. II., folio, ds. Vols. Ill , IV., V, and VI.,
New Series, folio, 7^. dd. each.

See also Batley.

De Leon (E.) Egypt tinder its Khedive. With Map and
Illustrations. Crown Svo, 4^.

Don (Quixote, Wit and Wisdom of. By Emma Thompson.

Square cap. Svo, y. 6d.
Donnelly ignatius) Atlantis ; or, the Antediluvian World.

Crown Svo, 12s. 6d.
Ragnarok: The Age of Fire and Gravel. Illustrated,

Cro\\ai Svo, \2s. 6d.
Dos Fassos {y. R.) Lata of Stockbrokers and Stock Exchanges.

Svo, 35^.
Dougall james Daniel, F.S.A., F.Z.A.) Shooting: its Appliances,

Practice, and Purpose. New Edition, revised with additions.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 'js. 6d.

"The book is admirable in every way We wish it every success"— G/(73<?.

"A very complete treatise Likely to take high rank as an authority on

shooting." — Daily News.

Drama. See Archer, Cook (Button), Williams (M.).
Dartford col. A. W.) A Soldier's Life and Work in South

Africa, 1S72-9. Svo, 14^.
Dyeing. See Bird (F. J.).

Educational Works published in Great Britain.
•^-^ Classified Catalogue. Second Edition, revised and corrected, Svo,

cloth extra, egypt.
See " De Leon," *' Foreign Countries," " Seniors
Eidlitz leopold) Nature and Functions of Art the); and

especially of Architecture. Medium Svo, cloth, 21s.
Electricity. See Gordon.
Emerson Birthday Book. Extracts from the Writings of R. W.

Emerson. Square imo, cloth extra, numerous Illustrations, very

choice binding, 3^-, 6^/.
Emerson {R. JV.) Life. By G. W. Cooke. Crown Svo, 8^. 6^.

English Catalogue of Books. Vol. III., 1872 — 18S0. Royal

Svo, half-morocco, 42 j.
English Philosophers. Edited by E. B. Ivan Miller, Mea.

A series intended to give a concise view of the works anal lives of English
thinkers. Crown Svo volumes of iSo or 200 pp., price 3.'. td, each.

Francis Bacon, by Thomas Fowler
Ilamikon, by W. H. S. Monck:.
Hartley and James Mill, by G. S
Bower,

*John Stuart Mill, by Miss Helen
Taylor.
Shaftesbury and Hutchison, by
Professor Fowler.
I Adam Smith, by J. A. Farrcr,
Not yet pulHshcd.

Episodes in the Life of an Indian Chaplain, Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, \2s. 6d.

Episodes of French LLisfofy. Edited, with Notes, Maps, and
Illustrations, by Gl'STAVE Mason, B.A. Small Svo, 2s. 6d. each.

1. Charlemagne-ne and the Carlovingians.

2. Louis XI. and the Crusades.

3. Part I. Francis I. and Charles V.

,, 11. Francis I. and the Renaissance.

4. Henry IV. and the End of the Wars of Relic-ion.

Esmarch {Dr. Friedrich) Handbook on the Treatment of
Wounded in War. Numerous Coloured Plates and Illustrations, Svo,
strongly bound, i/. fletcher

the). Containing 36 Examples of the Original
Etched-work of Celebrated Artists, amongst others : Birket Fos rEK,
J. E. Hodgson, R.A., Colin Hunter, J. P. Heseltine, Robert
W. Macbeth, R. S. Chattock, <S:c. Vols, for 1S81 and 1S82,
imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2/. I2s, 6d. each.

Etching. See Batley, Chattock.

Etchings modern) of Celebrated Paintings. 4to, 31 J. dd.

I^ARM Ballads, Festivals, and Legends. See " Rose Library."

Fashion history of). See '' Challamel."

Facets edgar) A Gentleman of Leisure. \s.

Fechfier {G. T.) On Life after Death. 12 mo, vellum, 2s. 6d.

Welkin {R. W.) a fid Wilson rev. C. T.) Uganda and the
Egyptian Soudan. With Map, numerous Illustrations, and Notes.
By R. W. Welkin, F.R.G.S., &c , &c. ; and the Rev. C. T.
Wilson, M.x\. Oxon., F.R.G.S. 2 vols., crown Svo, cloth, 28i-.

Penn {G. Melville) Off to the Wilds: A Story for Boys.
Profusely Illustrated. Crown 8vo, ^s. 6:/,

Ferguson john) Ceylon in 1883. With numerous Illustrations.

Crown Svo.
Ferns. See Heath.

Fields {y. T) Yesterdays zvith Authors. New Ed., S\'0., \Gs.
Florence. See "Yriarte."

Flowers of Shakespeare. 32 beautifully Coloured Plates, with
the passages which refer to the flowers. Small 4to, 5?.

Sampson Low, Marston, &> Col

Foreign Countries and British Colonies. A series of Descriptive
Handbooks. Each volume will be the work of a writer who has
special acquaintance with the subject. Crown 8vo, 3j. 6c/. each.

Markham,

Australia, by J. F. Vesey Fitzgerald.

Austria, by D. Kay, F. R. G. S.
*Canada, by W. Fraser Rae.

Denmark and Iceland, by E. Cette.

Egypt, by S. Lane Poole, B.A.

France, by Miss M. Roberts.

Germany, by S. Baring-gould.

Greece, by L. Sergeant, B. A.
*holland, by R. L. Poole.

Japan, by S. Mossman.
*±\e\v Zealand.

*Persia, by Major-Gen. Sir F. goldsmith.


Not ready yet.

Fortunes made in Business. 2 vols., demy 8vo, cloth, 32J.

Fraiic maud Jeanne). The following form one Series, small
post 8vo, in uniform cloth bindings, with gilt edges: —

Peru, by Clements R.

Cab.

Russia, by W. R. Merrill, Mea.
Spain, by Rev. Wentworth Webster.
Sweden and Norway, by F. If.

Woods.
switzerland, by W. A. P. Coolidge,

Mea.
*Turkey-in-Asia, by J. C. McCoan,

M.P.
West Indies, by C. H. Eden,

F.R.G.S.

Emily's Choice. 5>r.
Hall's Vineyard, 4^-.
John's Wife : A Story of Life in

South Australia. marian
; or, The Light of Some

One's Home. silken
Cords and Iron Fetters. vermont

Vale. minnie's

Mission. 45".

Little Mercy. beatrice

Melton's Discipline. 43'.

No Longer a Child. /\s.

Golden Gifts. 4^.

Two Sides to Every Question, /^s.

Francis (F.) War, JVaves, and Wanderings, including a Cruise

in the "Lancashire Witch." 2 vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 24^.
Frederick the Great. See "Broglie."
French. See "Julien."
Froissart. See " Lanier."

nestle Life (Queen Edition).

2 vols, in I, small 4to, 6j-.
LIFE SERIES.

THE GENTLE

Price 6^. each ; or in calf extra, price ioj. ()d. ; Smaller Edition, cloth
extra, 2j. 6^., except where price is named.

The Gentle Life. Essays in aid of the Formation of Character
of Gentlemen and Gentlewomen.

About in the World. Essays by Author of " The Gentle Life."

Like tito Christ. A Nev Translation of Thomas ix Kempis'
•*De Imitation Christi."

Familiar Words. An Index Variorum, or Quotation Handbook.
6^.

Essays by Montaigne. Edited and Annotated by the Author
of "The Gentle Life."

T/ie Gentle Life. 2nd Series.

Tie Silent Flour : Essays, Original and Selected. By the
Author of "The Gentle Life."

ILalf Length Portraits. Short Studies of Notable Persons.
By J. Hain Friswei.l.

Essays on English Writers, for the Self-improvement of
Students in English Literature.

Other People's Windows. By J. Hain Friswell. 6s.

A Man's TJio7ights. By J. Hain Friswell.

The Comites of Pembroke's Arcadia. By Sir Philip Sidney.
New Edition, 6s.

George Eliot : a Critical Study of her Life. By G. W. Cooke.

Crown 8vo, loj-. 6d.
German. See Beumer.
Germany. By S. Baring-Gould. Crown 8vo, 3^-. 6d.

Gibbs {J. R.) British LLoJiduras, Historical and Descriptive.

Cro^\^l 8vo, 7^. dd.
Gilder (W. LI.) Lce-Pack and Tundra. An Account of the

Search for the " Jeannette." 8vo, iSx.
Schwatka's Search. Sledging in quest of the Franklin

Records. Illustrated, Svo, 12s. 6d.
Gilpin's Forest Scenery. Edited by F. G. Heath. Large

post 8vo, with numerous Illustrations. Uniform with " The Fern

World," re-issued, ']s. 6d.

Glas john) The Lord's Supper. Crown Svo 5^.

Gordon (/. E. LI., B.A. Cantab.) Four Lcctu-yes on Electric
Induction. Delivered at the Royal Institution, 1878-9. With
numerous Illustrations. Cloth limp, square l6mo, is.

Elect ?'ic Lighting. [In preparation.

Physical Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism. New

Edition, revised and enlarged, with coloured, full-page, and other
Illustrations, 2 vols., Svo, dais.

Gouffe. The Royal Cookery Book. By Jules Gouffe ; translated
and adapted for English use by Alphonse GOUFF^, Head
Pastrycook to Her Majesty the Queen, Illustrated with large plates
printed in colours. 161 Woodcuts, 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 42^.

Domestic Edition, half-bounds loi". 6d.

Sampson Low Marston, &^ Col

Great Artists. See " Biographies."

Great Historic Galleries of Eftgla?td the). Edited by Lord
Ronald GowER, F.S.A., Trustee of the National Portrait Gallery.
Illustrated by 24 large and carefully q\qcm\.qCl permanent Photographs
of some of the most celebrated Pictures by the Great Masters. Vol. I.,
imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 36j-. Vol. 11. , with 36 large
permanent photographs, 2/. I2s. 6d.

Great Musicians. Edited by F. Suffer. A Series of

Biographies, crown 8vo, ^s. each :-
Bach.

Beethoven,

Berlioz.
English Church Composers.
By Barrett.

*Gluck.

Handel.
*Haydn.
*Marcello.

Mendelssohn.

Mozart.
*Palestrina.

InpreJ>aration.

Purcell.
Rossini.
Schubert.
Schumann.
Richard Wagner.
Weber.

Grohviann {IV. A. B.) Camp in the Rockies. 8vo, \2S. 6d.

Guizot History of France. Translated by Robert Black.
Super-royal 8vo, very numerous Full-page and other Illustrations. In
8 vols,, cloth extra, gilt, each 24^. This work is re-issued in cheaper
binding, 8 vols., at los. 6d. each.

It supplies a want which has long been felt, and ought to be in the hands of all
students of history"— Tz/wj.

Massoft^s School Edition. The

History of France from the Earliest Times to the Outbreak of the
Revolution; abridged from the Translation by Robert Black, Mea.,
v.-ith Chronological Index, Historical and Genealogical Tables, &c.
By Professor GusTAVE Mason, B.A., Assistant Master at Harrow
School. With 24 full-page Portraits, and many other Illustrations.
I vol., demy 8vo, 600 pp., cloth extra, los. 6d.

Guizot History of England. In 3 vols, of about 500 pp. each,
containing 60 to 70 Full-page and other Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt,
24J. each ; re-issue in cheaper binding, los, dd. each.

For luxury of typography, plainness of print, and beauty of illustration, these
volumes, of which but one has as yet appeared in English, will hold their own
against any production of an age so luxurious as our own in everything, typography
not excepted"— Times.

Guyon {Mde.) Life. By Upham. 6th Edition, crown Svo, ds.

1408 Health Maxims ,
W. Hall, A.M., M.D.

JLTALL { W. IV.) Ho7v to Live Long; or
•^ -^ Physical, Mental, and Moral. By W.
Small post Svo, cloth, 2s. 2nd Edition.

Harper's Christmas No., 1882. Elephant folio, 2s. 6d.

Carpet's Monthly Magazine. Published Monthly. 160 pages,
fully Illustrated. \s.

Vol. T. December, iso, to May, 1881.
,, II. June to November, 188 r.
,, III. December, 1881, to May, 18S2
,, V^. June to November, 1882.
„ V. December, 1S82, to May, 18S3.
Super-royal Svo, %s, 6d. each.

' Harper's Magazine ' is so thickly sown with excellent illustrations that to count
them would be a work of time ; not that it is a picture magazine, for the engravings
illustrate the text after the manner seen in some of our choicest editions de luxe." —
St. James's Gazette.

It is so pretty, so big, and so cheap. . . . An extraordinary shillings worth —
160 large octavo pages, with over a score of articles, and more than three times as
many illustrations." — Edinbiire^k Daily Review.

'* An amazing shillings worth . . . combining choice literature of both nations." —
Nonconformist.

Hatton joseph) Journalists London : with Engravings and
Portraits of Distinguished "Writers of the Day. Cap. 4to, \2s. 6d.

• Three Recruits, and the Girls they left behind them.

Small post Svo, crit

hurries us along in unflagging excitement." — Times.

See also " Low's Standard Novels."

Heath francis George). Autumnal Leaves. New Edition,
with Coloured Plates in Facsimile from Nature. Crown Svo, i^r.

Burnham Beeches. Illustrated, small Svo, is.

Fern Paradise. New Edition, with Plates and Photos.,

crown Svo, I2J. 6d.

Fern Woidd. With Nature-printed Coloured Plates.

New Edition, crown Svo, \2s. 6d.

Gilpin's Forest Scenery. Illustrated, Svo, \2S. 6d.;

New Edition, Js. 6d.

Our Woodland Trees. With Coloured Plates and

Engravings. Small Svo, J2s. 6d.
Peasant Life in the West of England. Crown Svo,

vos. 6d.
Sylvan Spring. With Coloured, &c., Illustrations.

12S. 6d.

Trees and Ferns. Illustrated, crown Svo, 35-. Gd.

Where to Find Ferns. Crown Svo, 2s.

Heber bishop) Hymns. Illustrated Edition. \\\\.\\ upwards
of 100 beautiful Engravings. Small 4to, handsomely bound, "js. 6d.
Morocco, i8y. 6'/. and2lJ". New and Cheaper Edition, cloth, y. 6d.

Heldmaiin bernard) Mutiny on Board the Ship *' Leander
Small post 8vo, gilt edges, numerous Illustrations, ^s. 6d.

Henry {G. A.) Winning his Spurs. Numerous Illustrations

Crown 8vo, ^s.
Cos-net of Horse : A Story for Boys. Illustrated, crown

8vo, 5?.

Jack Archer : Tale of the Crimea. Illust., crown Svo, 55".

Herrick robert) Poetry. Preface by Austin Dobson. "With
numerous Illustrations by E. A. Abbey. 4to, gilt edges, 42^.

History and Principles of Leaving by Hand and by Power. With
several hundred Illustrations. By Alfred Barlow. Royal Svo,
cloth extra, i/. second Edition.

Hitchnian francis) Public Life of the Right Hon. Benjamin
Disraeli, Earl of Beaconsfield. New Edition, with Portrait. Crown
Svo, 3 J. 6d.

Hole rev. Canon) Nice and Her Neighbours. Small 4to,

with numerous choice Illustrations, i6s.
Holmes {O. JV.) The Poetical Works of Oliver Wendell Holmes.

In 2 vols., imo, exquisitely printed, and chastely bound in limp

cloth, gilt tops, los. 6d.

Hoppus {y. Z).) Riverside Papers. 2 vols., i2j'.

Hovgaard (A.) See " Nordenskiold's Voyage." Svo, 21s.

Hugo victor) 'ninety-Three." Illustrated. Crown Svo, 6s.

Toilers of the Sea. Crown Svo, fancy boards, 2s.

and his Times. Translated from the French of A.

Barbour by Ellen E. Fewer. 120 Illustrations, many of them
from designs by Victor Hugo himself. Super-royal Svo, cloth extra,
24s.

History of a Crime the) ; Deposition of an Eye-witness.

The Story of the Coup d'etat. Crown Svo, hundred

Greatest Men the). S portfolios, 21s. each, or 4
vols., half-morocco, gilt edges, 10 guineas.

Hutchinson athos.) Diary and Letter's. Demy Svo, cloth, 16^.

Hutchinson {W. H.) Pen and Pencil Sketches: Eighteen Years
in Bengal. Svo, i8j.

Hygiene and Public Health {A Treatise on). Edited by A. H.
Buck, M.D. Illustrated by numerous Wood Engravings. In 2
royal Svo vols., cloth, 425-.

Hymnal Companion of Common Prayer. See Bickerstetk.

Illustrated Text-Books of Art-Education. Edited by
•^ Edward J. Poynter, R.A. Each Volume contains numerous Illustrations,
and is strongly bound for the use of Students, price ^s, 1"he
Volumes now ready are : —

PAINTING.

French and Spanish.
English and American.

Classic and Italian. By Percy

R. Head.
German, Flemish, and Dutch.

ARCHITECTURE.

Classic and Early Christian.

Gothic and Renaissance, By T. Roger Smith.

SCULPTURE.

Antique : Egyptian and Greek. | Renaissance and Modern,

Italian Sculptors of the 14th and 15th Centuries.
ornament.
Decoration in Colour. | Architectural Ornament.

Irving ( Washington). Complete Library Edition of his Works
in 27 Vols., Copyright, Unabridged, and with the Author's Latest
Revisions, called the " Geoffrey Crayon" Edition, handsomely printed
in large square 8vo, on superfine laid paper. Each volume, of about
500 pages, fully Illustrated. 12s. 6a. per vol. See also ** Little Britain'*

(" American Men of Letters") 2s. dd.

eames (C) Curiosities of Laid and Lawyers. 8vo, ^s. 6d.

Japan. See Audsley.

Jarvis {/./.) Italian Rambles. Square imo, 5^.
Johnson (0.) W. Lloyd Garrison aid his Times. Crown 8vo,
1 2 J. 6d.

Jones {Majoj') The Emigrants' Friend. A Complete Guide to
the United States. New Edition. 2s. 6d.

Jones mrs. Herbert) Sa?id?'inghain : Past and Present. Illustrated,
crown 8vo, 8j-. 6d.

Julien (F.) English Students French Examiner. imo. 2s.

First Lessons in Conversational French Grammar.

Crown 8vo, is.

Conversational French Reader. imo, cloth, 2s. dd.

• Petites Legions de Conversation et de Grammar. New

Edition, 3J-. 61/. ; without Phrases, 2s. 6d.

Phrases of Daily Use. Limp cloth, Gd.

Jung sir Salary) Life of. [In the press

jy'EMPIS thomas a) Daily Text-book. Square imo,
■*■ *■ 2.S. 6d. ; interleaved as a Birthday Book, 3j. 6cf.
Kingston {W. H. G.) Dick Cheveley. Illustrated, imo, gilt
edges, 7^. dd. ; plainer binding, plain edges, ^s.

Fresh and Salt Water Tutors: A Story. 3^. 6d.

Heir of Kilfinnan. Uniform, yi". dd. ; also 55".

Snoia- Shoes and Canoes. Uniform, 7^. 6d. ; also 55.

T7V0 Supercargoes. Uniform, 7^. dd. ; also ^s.

With Axe and Rifle. Uniform, ^s. 6d. ; also 5^.

Knight {E. F.) Albania and Montenegro. Illust. 8vo. 12s. 6d.
Knight {F. /.) The Cruise of the 'falcon'' A Voyage round

the World in a 30-Ton Yacht. Numerous Illust. 2 toss., crown Svo.

Lambert (0.) Angling Literature in England ; and
Descriptions of Fishing by the Ancients. With a Notice of some

Books on other Piscatorial Subjects. Cap. Svo, vellum, top gilt, y. 6d.
Lanier sidney) The Boy's Froissart, selected from the Chronicles

of England, France, and Spain. Illustrated, extra binding, gilt

edges, crown Svo, ']s. 6d.

Boy's King Arthur. Uniform, yi". 6^.

Boss Mahinogion ; Original Welsh Legends of King

Arthur. Uniform, "js. 6d.
Boy's Percy : Ballads of Love and Adventure, selected

from the " Reliques." Uniform, 7^. bd.
Lansdell {B.) Through Siberia. 2 vols., demy Svo, 30:^. ; New

Edition, very numerous illustrations, Svo, IOj-. 6d.
Lardcn {W.) School Course on Heat. Second Edition, Illustrated,
crown Svo, 5^-.
Lathrop {G. P.) In the Distance. 2 vols., crown Svo, 2\s.
Legal Profession : Romantic Stories. 75, 6d.
Leonard {T. B.) To Married Women and Women about to be

Married, &c. dd.
Lenormant {F.) Beginnings of History. Crown Svo, 12.?. dd.

Leonardo da Vinci's Literary Works. Edited by Dr. Jean
Paul Richter. Containing his Writings on Painting, Sculpture,
and Architecture, his Philosophical Maxims, Humorous writings, and
Miscellaneous Notes on Personal Events, on his Contemporaries, on
Literature, <S:c. ; for the first time published from Autograph Manuscripts.
By J. P. Richter, Ph. Dr., Hon. Member of the Royal and
Imperial Academy of Rome, &c. 2 vols,, imperial Svo, containing
about 200 Drawings in Autotype Reproductions, and numerous other
Illustrations. Twelve Guineas.

Lty!and{R. IV.) Holiday in South Africa. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d.
Library of Religious Poetry. A Collection of the Best Poems

of all Ages and Tongues. Edited by Philip Chaff, Dad., LL.D.,

and Arthur Oilman, M. A. Royal 8vo, 1036 pp., cloth extra, gilt

edges, 2IJ.; re-issue in cheaper binding, vos. 6d.
Lindsay {IV. S.) History of Merchant Shipping and Ancient

Commerce. Over 150 Illustrations, Maps, and Charts. In 4 vols.,

demy 8vo, cloth extra. Vols. I and 2, \\s. each ; vols. 3 and 4, 14.^.

each. 4 vols, complete, 50^-.
Lillie lucy E.) Prudence : a Story of Esthetic London.

Small 8vo, $s.
Little Britain; together with T/ie Spectre Bridegroom and A

Legend of Sleepy Hollow. By Washington Irving. An entirely

New Edition de luxe, specially suitable for Presentation. Illustrated

by 120 very fine Engravings on Wood, by Mr. J. D. Cooper.

Designed by INIr. Charles O. Murray. Re-issue, square crown

8vo, cloth, cadogan
sir William E) Life. By Bernard J. Harrington.

8vo, 1 2s. 6d.
Long mrs. W. LI. C.) Peace and War in the Transvaal.

imo, 3j. 6d.
Lon's Standard Library of Travel and Adventure. Crown 8vo,

bound uniformly in cloth extra, price 7 J. 6^/., except where price is

given.

1. The Great Lone Land. By Major W. F. Butler, Cab.

2. The Wild North Land. By Major W. F. Butler, Cab.'

3. How I found Living-stone. By H, M. Stanley.

4. Through the Dark Continent. By H. M. Stanley. I2j-. 6r/.

5. The Threshold of the Unknown Reg-ion. By C. R. Markham.

(4th Edition, with Additional Chapters, lOJ". dd.)

6. Cruise of the Challenger. By W. J. J. Spry, Ren.

7. Burnaby's On Horseback through Asia Minor. lOj-. 6./.

8. Schweinfurth's Heart of Africa. 2 vols., \^s.

9. Marshall's Through America.

10. Lansdell's Through Siberia. Illustrated and unabridged,
10J-. ^d.
Low's Standard Novels. Small post Svo, cloth extra, 65. each,
unless otherwise stated.

Work. A Story of Experience. By Louisa M. Alcott.
A Daughter of Heth. By W. Black.
In Silk Attire. By W. Black.
Ailment. A Novel. By W. Black.

Low's Standard Novels — continued.

Lady Coverdale's Sweetheart. By W. Black,

Sunrise. By W. Black.

Three Feathers. By William Black.

Alice Lorraine. By R. D. Blackmore.

Christowell, a Dartmoor Tale. By R. D. Blackmore.

Clara Aug-han. By R. D. Blackmore.

Crack Powell. By R. D. Blackmore.

Cripps the Carrier. By R. D. Blackmore.

Enema; ; or, My Father's Sin. By R. D. Blackmore.

Lorna Done. By R. D. Blackmore.

Mary Waverley. By R. D. Blackmore.

An English Squire. By Miss Coleridge.

Mistress Judith. A Cambridgeshire Story. By C. C. Fraser-tatler.


A Story of the Dragonnades ; or, Asylum Christi. By the Rev.

E. William, Mea.
A Laodicean. By Thomas Hardy.
Far from the Madding Crowd. By Thomas Hardy.
The Hand of Ethelbert. By Thomas Hardy.
The Trumpet Major. By Thomas Hardy.
Two on a Tower. By Thomas Hardy.
Three Recruits. By Joseph Hatton.
A Golden Sorrow. By Mrs. Cashel Hoey. New Edition.
Out of Court. By Mrs. Cashel Hoey.
History of a Crime: Time Story of the Coup d'Etat. Victor

Hugo.
Ninety-three. By Victor Hugo. Illustrated.
Adeia Cathcart. By George Mac Donald.
Guild Court. By George Mac Donald.
Mary Marston. By George Mac Donald.
Stephen Archer. New Edition of "Gifts." By George Mac

Donald.
The Vicar's Daughter. By George Mac Donald.
Weighed and Wanting. By George Mac Donald.
Diane. By Mrs. Macquoid.
Elinor Dry den. By Mrs. Macquoid.
My Lady Greensleeves. By Helen Matters.
John Wordsworth. By W. Clark Russell.
A Sailor's Sweetheart. By W. Clark Russell.

"Wreck of the Grosvenor. Ey W. Clark Russell.

The Lady Maud. By W. Clark Russell.

Little Loo, By W. Clark Russell.

My Wife and I. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe.

Pogranuc People, Their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. B. Stowe.

Ben Hur: a Tale of the Christ. By Lev;. Wallace.

Anne. By Constance Fillmore Woolso.v.

For the Major. By Constance Fenimore Wools. 5.?.

Lows Handbook to the Charities of London (Annual). Edited
and revised to date by C. INIackeson, F. Ses., Editor of "A Guide
to the Churches of London and its Suburbs," &c. Taper, cloth
is. 6d.

Ji/fCCORMICK {R., R.N.). Voyages of Discovery in the
-^'^ Arctic and Antarctic Seas in the "Erebus" and •' Terror," in

Search of Sir John Franklin, &c., with Autobiographical Notice by

R. McCoRMiCK, Ren., who was Medical Officer to each Expedition.

With Maps and very numerous Lithographic and other Illustrations.

2 vols., royal 8vo, 52J. 6d.

Macdonald (A.) '' Our Sceptred Isle'' and its World-wide
Empire. Small post 8vo, cloth, macdonald

{G.) Orts. Small post Svo, 6s.

See also '' Low's Standard Novels."

Macgregor {Joh?i) "-^ Rob Roy'' on the Baltic. 3rd Edition,

small post Svo, 2s. 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, y. 6d.
A Thousand Miles in the ^^ Rob Roy' Canoe, nth

Edition, small post Svo, 2s. 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, 3.r. 6d.
Description of the " Rob Roy' Canoe. Plans, &c., \s.

— Voyage Alone iii the Yawl " Rob Roy." New Edition,
thoroughly revised, with additions, small post Svo, <^s, ; boards, is. 6./.

Macquoid{Mrs.). See Low's Standard Novels.

Magazine. See Decoration, Etcher, Harper, L^xiox Jack.

Magyaj-land. A Narrative of Travels through the Snowy Carpathians,
and Great Alfold of the Magyar. By a Fellow of the Carpathian
Society (Diploma of isti), and Author of" The Indian Alps."
2 vols., Svo, cloth extra, with about 120 Woodcuts from the Author's
own sketches and drawings, 3SJ.

Manitoba. See Rae.

Maria Theresa. See Broglie.

Marked " In Haste:' A Story of To-day. Crown Svo, 2>s. 6d.

Markham admiral) A Naval Career during the Old War,
Svo, cloth, ifs.

Markham {C. R.) The Threshold of the Unknown Region.
Crown Svo, with Four Maps, 4th Edition. Cloth extra, vos. 6d.

War between Peru and Chili, 1879-1881. Crown

8vo, with four Maps, &c. Third Edition, los, 6d. See also " Foreign
Countries."

Marshall (W. G.) Through America. New Edition, crown
Svo, with about 100 Illustrations, 7^. 6d.

Martin {J. JV.) Float Fishing and Spinning in the Nottingham
Style. Crown Svo, 2x. dd.

Marvin charles) Russian Advance towards India. Svo, 165'.

Maury commander) Physical Geography of the Sea, and its
Meteorology. Being a Reconstruction and enlargement of his former
AVork, with Charts and Diagrams. New Edition, crown Svo, 6^.

Men of Mark : a Gallery of Contemporary Portraits of the most
Eminent Men of the Day taken from Life, especially for this publication
Complete in Seven Vols., handsomely bound, cloth, gilt edges,
25^-. each.

Mendelssohn Family the), 1729 — 1847. From Letters and
Journals. Translated from the German of SEBASTIAN Hensel.
3rd Edition, 2 vols., Svo, '}f)S.

Mendelssohn. See also " Great Musicians."

Milford mary Russell) Our Village. Illustrated with Frontispiece
Steel Engraving, and 12 full-page and 157 smaller Cuts. Crown
4to, cloth, gilt edges, 21s.; cheaper binding, los. 6d.

Mollett {J. W.) Illustrated Dictionary of Words used in Art
and Archaeology. Explaining Terms frequently used in Works on
Architecture, Arms, Bronzes, Christian Art, Colour, Costume, Decoration,
Devices, Emblems, Heraldry, Lace, Personal Ornaments,
Pottery, Painting, Sculpture, &c., with their Derivations. Illustrated
with 600 Wood Engravings. Small 4to, strongly bound in cloth, i5j-.

Morley {H.) English Literature in the Reign of Victoria. The
2000th volume of the Tauchnitz Collection of Authors. imo,
2s. 6./.

Muller (F.) Noble Words and Noble Deeds. Containing many
Full-page Illustrations by PniLirPOTEAUX. Square imperial 161110,
cloth extra, 7j-. 6d. ; plainer binding, plain edges, ^s.

Afusic. See " Great Musicians."

j>^E Wiggins's Sketches and Tales. imo, 41.

New CliiISs Play (A). Sixteen Drawings by E. V. B. Beautifully
printed in colours, 4to, cloth extra, J2s. 6d.

New Zealand, See Bradshaw.

Newfoundland. See Rae.

Carbury henry F.) Naval Brigade in South Africa. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, loi. (>d.

Nordenskiold^s Voyage around Asia and Europe. A Popular
Account of the North-East Passage of the "Vega." By Lieut. A.
HovGAARD, of the Royal Danish Navy, and member of the " Vega "
Expedition. 8vo, with about 50 Illustrations and 3 Maps, 21s.

Nordhoff {C.) California, for Healthy Pleasure, and Residence.
New Edition, 8vo, with Maps and Illustrations, \2s. 6d.

Northern Fairy Tales. Translated by H. L. Braekstad. ^s.

Nothing to Wear ; and Tito Millions. By W. A. Butler
New Edition. Small post 8vo, in stiff coloured wrapper, \s.

Nursery Playmates prince of ). 217 Coloured Pictures for
Children by eminent Artists. Folio, in coloured boards, 6s.

O'BRIEN {P. B.) Fifty Years of Concessions to Ireland,
Svo.

■ Irish Land Question and English Question. New

Edition, cap. 8vo, 2s.

Our Little Ones in Heaven. Edited by the Rev. H. Robbins.
With Frontispiece after Sir Joshua Reynolds. Cap., cloth extra,
New Edition — the 3rd, with Illustrations. 5^.

Outlines of Oi-nascent in all Styles. A Work of Reference for
the Architect, Art Manufacturer, Decorative Artist, and Practical
Painter. By W. and G. A. Audley, Fellows of the Royal Institute
of British Architects. Only a limited number have been printed and
the stones destroyed. Small folio, 60 plates, with introductory text,
cloth gilt, 31J. 6d.

Given douglas) Marine Insurance Notes and Clauses. 10s. Gd.

pALGRA VE (/?. F. D.). See " Chairman's Handbook."

Palliser mrs.) A History of Lace, from the Earliest Period.
A New and Revised Edition, with additional cuts and text, upwards of
lOO Illustrations and coloured Designs. I vol., 8vo, il. is.

Historic Devices, Badges, and War Cries. 8vo, i/. i^.

The China Collector's Pocket Companion. With upwards
of looo Illustrations of Marks and Monograms. 2nd Edition,
with Additions. Small post 8yo, limp cloth, perseus,

the Gorgon Slayer. Numerous coloured Plates, square
8vo, pharmacopoeia

of the United States of America. 8vo, 21s.
Photography [History and Handbook of). See Islander.

Pi?ito (Major Sera) How L Crossed Africa : from the Atlantic
to the Indian Ocean, Through Unknown Countries ; Discovery of the
Great Zambesi Affluents, &c. — Vol. I., The King's Rifle. Vol. II.,
The Collar Family. With 24 full-page and 1 18 half-page and
smaller Illustrations, 13 small Maps, and i large one. 2 vols., demy
8vo, cloth extra, 42^-.

Cock. See Arnold (G. TvI.).

Poe {E. A.) The Raven. Illustrated by Gustave Dore.
Imperial folio, cloth, 63i-.

Poems of the Inner Life. Chiefly from Modern Authors.
Small 8vo, ^s.

Polar Expeditions. See Koldewey, Markham, MacGahan,

NaRES, NORDENSKIOLD, GiLDER, McCORMICK.

Politics and Life in Mars. 12 mo, 2s. 6d.

Powell {IV, ) Wanderings in a Wild Country ; or, Three Years
among the Cannibals of New Britain. Demy 8vo, Map and numerous
Illustrations, isis

Her Majesty's, their Effects and Defects. New and
cheaper Edition, 6j-.

Poynter edward J., R.a). See '• Illustrated Text-books."

Publishers' Circular { The), and General Record of British and
Foreign Literature. Published on the 1st and 15th of every Month, 3,/.

f^AE ( W. Fraser) From Newfoundland to Manitoba ; a
-* »• Guide through Canada's Maritime, Mining, and Prairie Provinces,
With Maps. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Ra7nbaud {A.) History of Russia. 2 vols., 8vo, 361.

Reber{F.') History of Ancient Art. 8vo, i8y.

Redford {G.) Ancient Sculpture. Crown Svo, ^s.

Reid {T. JV.) Land of the Bey. Post Svo, 10^. 6^.

Remusat madame de), Memoirs of 1 802 — i SoS. Ey her Grandson,
M. Paul de Remusat, Senator. Translated by Mrs. Cash el
Hoed and Mr. Join Lillie. 4th Edition, cloth extra. 2 vols.,
Svo, 32J-.

Selection from the Letters of Madame de Rtmusat to her

Husband and Son, from 1S04 to 1813. From the French, by Mrs.
Cashel Hoey and I\Ir. John Lillie. In i vol., demy Svo (uniform
with the "Memoirs of Madame de Remusat," 2 vols), cloth extra, its.

Richter (Dr. Jean Paul) Italian Art in the National Gallery.
4to. Illustrated. Cloth gilt, 2/. is.; half-morocco, uncut, 2/. \2s. 6d.

See also Leonardo da Vinci.

Robin Hood; Merry Adventures of. Written and illustrated
by Howard Pyle. Imperial Svo, cloth. \ In the press.

Robinson phil) In my Indian Garden. AV'ith a Preface by
Edwin Arnold, Mea., C.S.I., &c. Crown Svo, limp cloth, 4th
Edition, 3j-. 6c/.

Noah's Ark. A Contribution to the Study of Unnatural

History. Small post Svo, \2s. 6 J.

Sinners and Saints : a Tour across the United States of

America, and Round them; Crown Svo, ioj-. td.

Under the Punkah. Crown 8vo, limp cloth, 5j".

Robinson sergeant) Wealth and its Sources. Stray Thoughts, ^s.

Roland ; the Story of. Crown Svo, illustrated, 6s.

Romantic Stories of the Legal Profession. Crown Svo, cloth,
is. 6d.

Rose (y.) Complete Practical Machinist. New Edition, imo,
I2s. 6d.

Rose Library the). Popular Literature of all Countries. Each
volume, is. ; cloth, 2s. 6d. Many of the Volumes are illustrated—

Little Women. By Louisa M. Alcott. Able. vol., 2s.
Little Women Wedded. Forming a Sequel to " Little Women."
Little Women and Little Women Wedded, i vol. , cloth gilt, 3J-. ci.
Little Men. By L. M. Alcott. 2s.; cloth gilt, 3^. 6d.
An Old-fastened Girl. By Louisa M. Alcott. 2s.', cloth,
Zs. 6d.

Work. A Story of Experience. By L. M. Alcott. 2 vols., is. each.
Stowe (Mrs. H. B.) The Pearl of Orr's Island.

The Minister's Wooing

and our Neighbours. 2s.; cloth, tes. dd.

My Wife and I. 2s. ; cloth gilt, 3^. 6d.

Hans Drinker ; or, the Silver Skates. By Mrs. Dodge.

My Study Windows. By J. R. Lowell.

The Guardian Hang-el. By Oliver Wendell Holmes.

My Summer in a Garden. By C. D. Warner.

Died. Mrs. Beecher Stowe. 2j. ; cloth gilt, 3^. 6^.

Farm Ballads. By Will Carleton.

Farm Festivals. By Will Carleton.

Farm Leg-ends. By Will Carleton.

The Clients of Dr. Bernagrius. 2 parts, is. each.

The Undiscovered Country. By W. D. IIowells.

Bay Hue. By C. M. Clay.

The Rose in Bloom. By L. M. Alcott. 2s. ; cloth gilt, 3J. 6d.

Eight Cousins. By L. M. Alcott. 2s. ; cloth gilt, 3^. 6d.

Under the Lilacs. By L. M. Alcott. 2s. ; also 3j-. 6d.

Silver Pitchers. By Louisa jNI. Alcott.

Jimmy's Cruise in the "Pinafore," and other Tales. By

Louisa M. Alcott. 2s.; cloth gilt, 3j-. 6d.
Jack and Jill. By Louisa M. Alcott. 2s.
Hitherto. By the Author of the *' Gayworthys." 2 vols., U. each;

I vol., cloth gilt, 3J-. 6d.
Friends : a Duet. By E. Stuart Phelps.
A Gentleman of Leisure. A Novel. By Edgar Facets.
The Story of Helen Troy.

Round the Yule Log: Norwegian Folk and Fatty Tales.
Translated from the Norwegian of P. Cii. Asbjornsen. With 100
Illustrations after drawings by Norwegian Artists, and an Introduction
by E. W. Gosse. Imperial imo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 7^. 6d.

Roiissekt (Louis) Son of the Constable of France. Small post
8vo, numerous Illustrations, 5x.

•^—^ The Dinner Boy : a Story of the Days of Washington.
Small post Svo, numerous Illustrations, russell

( W. Clark) The Lady Maud. 3 vols., crown Svo,
31^. dd. New Edition, small post Svo, 6^.

Little Loo. 6s.

My Watch Beloiv ; or Yarns Spun when of Duty,

2nd Edition, crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

Sailor's Language. Illustrated. Crown Svo, 35. 6d.

Sea Queen. 3 vols., crown Svo, sis. 6d.

U^reck of the Grosvenor. 4to, sewed, 6d.

See also Low's Standard Novels.

Russell {W. B., LL.D.) Hcsperothen: Notes from the Western
World. A Record of a Ramble through part of the United States,
Canada, and the Far West, in the Spring and Summer of isti. By
W. H. Russell, LL.D. 2 vols., crown Svo, cloth, 24^-.

Tie Tour of the Prince of 1 Vales in India. By

W. H. Russell, LL.D. Fully Illustrated by Sydney P. Hall
Mea. Super-royal Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 52J-. 6</. ; Large
Paper Edition, '6:\s.

saints and their Symbols : A Companion in the Churches
*^ and Picture Galleries of Europe. With Illustrations. Royal imo,
cloth extra, 3^. 6t/.

Scherr prof y.) History of English Literature. Translated
from the German. Crown Svo, %s. 6J.

Schuyler eugene). The Life of Peter the Great. By Eugene
Schuyler, Author of "Turkestan." 2 vols., Svo.

Sclnceinfurth {Georg) LLeart of Africa. Three Years' Travels
and Adventures in the Unexplored Regions of Central Africa, from
1868 to 1 87 1. With Illustrations and large Map. 2 vols., crown Svo,
155.

Scott pleader) Renaissance of Art in. Italy. 4to, 31J. 6d.

Sedgwick major TV.) Light the Dominant Force of the Universe.
7 J. dd.

Senior nassau. IV.) Conversations and Journals in Egypt and
Malta. 2 vols., 8vo, 24J.

Shadbolt (S. H.) South African Campaign, 1879. Compiled
by J. P. MACKINNON (formerly 72nd Highlanders) and S. H.
SiiADEOLT; and dedicated, by permission, to Field-marshal H.R.H.
the Duke of Cambridge. Containing a portrait and biography of
every officer killed in the campaign. 4to, handsomely bound in cloth
extra, 2/. lOi-the

Afghan Campaigns of 1878 — 1880. By Sydney

wShadbolt, Joint Author of "The South African Campaign of 1879."
2 vols., royal quarto, cloth extra, 3/.

Shakespeare. Edited by R. Grant White. 3 vols., crown
8vo, gilt top, 36^. ; edition de luxe, 6 vols., 8vo, cloth extra, 6^s.

See also " Flowers of Shakespeare."

Sidney sir P.) Arcadia. New Edition, 6s.

Siegfried : The Story of. Crown 8vo, illustrated, cloth, 6s.

Sides { Wirt). Rambles aid Studies in Old South Wales. With
numerous Illustrations. Demy 8vo, iSj-.

British Goblins, Welsh Folk Lore. New Edition, 8vo,

[sr.

Studies of Assassination. imo, 3^'. 6d.

Sir Roger de Coverley. Re-imprinted from the " Spectator."
With 125 Woodcuts, and steel Frontispiece specially designed and
engraved for the Work. Small cap. 4to, 6s.

Smith (G.) Assyrian Explorations and Discoveries. By the late
George Smith. Illustrated by Photographs and Woodcuts. Demy
8vo, 6th Edition, \%s.

The Chaldean Account of Genesis. By the late G.

Smith, of the Department of Oriental Antiquities, British Museum.
With many Illustrations. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 6th Edition, \6s.
An entirely New Edition, completely revised and re-written by the
Rev. Professor Sauce, Queen's College, Oxford. Demy 8vo, iSj-.

Smith {J. Moy7') Ancient Greek Female Costume. 112 full-page
Plates and other Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 7j. 6d.

Hades of Ardennes : a Visit to the Caves of Han. Crown

8vo, Illustrated, 5a\

Smith {T. Jioge?') Architecture, Gothic and Renaissance. Illustrated,
crown 8vo, 5x.

Classic and Early Christian.

Illustrated. Crown 8vo, ^s.
South Kensington Museum. Vol. II., 2\s.

Spanish and French Artists, By Gerard Smith. (Poynter's
Art Text-books.) 55-. vin tu press.

Spy {W. J. /., Ren.) The Cruise of H.M.S. '' Challengers
With Route Map and many Illustrations. 6th Edition, demy Svo, cloth,
iSj-. Cheap Edition, crown Svo, with some of the Illustrations, Is. 6d.

Stack {E.) Six Months in Persia. 2 vols., crown Svo, 24s.

Stanley {H. M.) How I Foicnd Livingstone. Crown Svo, cloth
extra. Is. 6d. ; large Paper Edition, 10s. 6d.

'^ My Kalulu" Prince, King, and Slave. A Story

from Central Africa. Crown Svo, about 430 pp. , with numerous graphic
Illustrations after Original Designs by the Author. Cloth, ']s. 6d.

Coomassie and Magdalen. A Story of Two British

Campaigns in Africa. Demy Svo, with Maps and Illustrations, i6x.

Through the Dark Continent, Cheaper Edition,

crown Svo J 12s. 6d.

Sten house mrs.) An Englishwoman in Utah. Crown Svo, 2s. Gd.

Stoker {Bra?n) Under the Sunset. Crown Svo, ds.

Story without an End. From the German of Carve, by the late
Mrs. Sarah T. Austin. Crown 4to, with 15 Exquisite Drawings
by E. V. B., printed in Colours in Fac-simile of the original Water
Colours ; and numerous other Illustrations. New Edition, 'js. 6d.

square 4to, with Illustrations by Harvey. 2s. 6d,

Stowe mrs. Beecher) Died. Cheap Edition, boards, 2s. Cloth,
gilt edges, 35-. (>d.

Footsteps of the Master. With Illustrations and red

borders. Small post Svo, cloth extra, geography.

AVith 60 Illustrations. Square cloth,

4-$-. 6^.

• Little Foxes. Cheap Edition, ij-. ; Library Edition

AfS. 6d.

Betty Bright Idea. is.

Stowe {Mf's. Beecher) My Wife and I ; Of Harry Henderson's
History. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6^.*

Minister's Wooing. 55.; Copyright Series, i^. 6./.; cl., 2^.*

Old Tonne FolJz. 6s. ; Cheap Edition, 2s. 6.7.

0/d To7cm Fireside Stories. Cloth extra, 35-. 6d.

Our FolJzs at Pommic. ds.

We and our Neighbours. i vol., small post 8vo, 65.

Sequel to "My Wife and I."*

Pink and White Tyranny. SmwiU post 8vo, 3^. dd.

Cheap Edition IJ-. dd. and 2.r.

Poganuc People: their Loves and Lives. Crown 8vo,

cloth, 6x.

Queer Little People. \s. ; cloth, 2s.

Chimney Corner, is. ; cloth, is. 6d.

T/ie Pearl of On's Island. Crown 8vo, 55.*

Woman in Sacred History. Illustrated with 15

Chromo-lithographs and about 200 pages of Letterpress. Demy
4to. chili extra, gilt edges, i^s.

Sullivan {A. M., late M.P.) Nutshell History of Ireland.
From the Earliest Ages to the Present Time. Paper boards, 6d.

'JTACCHI (A.) Madagascar and the Malagasy Embassy.
•^ Demy 8vo, cloth.

Taine {H. A.) ^^ Les Origin es de la France Contemporary"
Translated by John Durant.

Vol. I. The Ancient Regime. Demy 8vo, cloth, i6s.
Vol. 2, The French Revolution. Vol. i . do.
Vol. 3. Do. do. Vol. 2. do.

Talbot thon. E.) A Letter on Emigration, is.

TaucJinitz's English Editions of German Authors, Each
volume, cloth flexible, 2s. ; or sewed, is, 6d. (Catalogues post free
on application.)

Tauchnitz (B.) German and English Dictionary. Paper, i^. 6d.;
cloth, 2s. ; roan, 2s. 6d.

See also Rose Library'.

Tauchnttz {B.) French and JLjiglish Dictionary. Paper, \s. 6J. ;
doth, 2s.; roan, 2s. 6d.

Italian and English Dictionary. Paper, i^. C^/.; cloth,

2J. ; roan, 2s. 6d.

Spanish and English. Paper, \s.()d.\ cloth, 2^'. ; roan,

2s. 6d.
Taylor {IV. M.) Paul the Missionary. Crown Svo, 7^. 6d.

That sing prof.) Preparation of Malt and the Fabrication of
Beer. Svo, 455-.

Theakston michael) British Angling Flies. Illustrated. Cr
Svo, 5 J.

Thoreau. By Sanborn. (American Men of Letters.) Crown

Svo, 2J. dd.

Thousand Years Hence {A). By Nunsowe Greene. Crown
Svo, 6^.

Tolhausen alexandre) Grand Supplement du Dictionnaire
Technologique. ^s. 6d.

Joiner alexander) Reminiscences of afi Adventurous and Chequered
Career. 2 vols., 21s.

Trials. See Browne.

Tristan pro. Canon) Pathways of Palestine : A Descriptive
Tour through the Holy Land. First Series. Illustrated by 44 Permanent
Photographs. 2 vols., folio, cloth extra, gilt edges, 31^. ^d.
each.

Tucker man bayard) History of English Prose and Fiction.
Zs. 6d.

Tunis. See Reid.

Turner edward) Studies in Russian Literature. Crown Svo,
8x. ed.

Timon Jack the). Every Boy's Paper. Edited by G. A.
^-^ IIenty. Profusely Illustrated with Coloured and other Plates.
Vol. I., 6^. Vols. II., III., IV., ^s. 6d. each.

Up Stream : A Journey from the Present to the Past. Pictures
and words by R. Andre. Coloured Plates, 4to, celebrated

TRAVELS and TRAVELLERS, s Vois., Demy

8vo, 600 pp., upwards of 100 full-page Illustrations, 12s. 6i. ;
gilt edges, 145. each : —

/. The Exploration of the World.

II. The Great Navigators of the Eighteenth Century.

III. The Great Explorers of the Nineteenth Century.

Cf The letters appended to each book refer to the various Editions and Prices

given at the foot of the page.
a e TWENTY THOUSAND LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA.
ae HECTOR SERVADAC.
a e THE FUR COUNTRY.
af FROM THE EARTH TO THE MOON, AND A TRIP

ROUND IT.
ae MICHAEL STROGOFF, THE COURIER OF THE CZAR.
a e DICK SANDS, THE BOY CAPTAIN.
hcd FIVE WEEKS IN A BALLOON.
led ADVENTURES OF THREE ENGLISHMEN AND THREE

RUSSIANS.
hcd AROUND THE WORLD IN EIGHTY DAYS.
1 ^\dA. FLOATING CITY.
^ ( fZTHE BLOCKADE RUNNERS.

. j DR. OX'S EXPERIMENT.
J I MASTER Zacharias.
°^ l^fA DRAMA IN THE AIR.

V^\A WINTER AMID THE ICE.
SfZTHE SURVIVORS OF THE "CHANCELLOR."
°^ ?martin PAZ.
hcd THE CHILD OF THE CAVERN.

THE MYSTERIOUS ISLAND, 3 Vols. : —
hcd I. DROPPED FROM THE CLOUDS.
bed II. ABANDONED.
led III. SECRET OF THE ISLAND.
fc^THE BEGUM'S FORTUNE.
^^\ THE MUTINEERS OF THE "BOUNTY."
hcd THE TRIBULATIONS OF A CHINAMAN.
THE STEAM HOUSE, 2 Vols. \ —
he 1. DEMON OF CAWNPORE.
he II. TIGERS AND TRAITORS.

THE GIANT RAFT, 2 Vols. :—
b I. EIGHT HUNDRED LEAGUES ON THE AMAZON,
b II. THE CRYPTOGRAM.
b GODFREY MORGAN.

THE GREEN RAY. Cloth, gilt edges, Gs. ; plain edges, 5i-.
a Small 8vo, very numerous Illustrations, handsomely bound in cloth, with gilt
edges, 108. Gd. ; ditto, plainer binding, 5«.

b Large imperial Imo, very numerous Illustrations, handsomely bound in cloth,,
with gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

c Ditto, plainer bin.) in ET, 3s. 6d.

d Cheaper Edition, 1 Vol., paper boards, with some of the Illustration?, 1*. ; bound
in cloth, gilt edges, 2s.

e Cheaper Edition as {d), in 2 Vols., Is. each; bound in cloth, gilt edges, 1 Vol.,
3s. 6d.
f Same as (e), except in cloth, 2 Vols., gilt edges, 2f, each.

Velasquez and Murillo. By C. B. Curtis. With

'^ Original Etchings. Royal 8vo, 3ij-. 6d.; large paper, 63^.

Victoria {Qiieen) Life of By Grace Greenwood. With
numerous Illustrations. Small post 8vo, vincent

(E.) Norse ^ Lapp and Finn. By Frank Vincent,
Jun., Author of "The Land of the White Elephant," "Through
and Through the Tropics," &c. 8vo, cloth, with Frontispiece and
Map, 12X.

VioIlet-le-Duc {E.) Lectin'cs on Architecture. Translated by
Benjamin Bucknall, Architect. With 33 Steel Plates and 200
Wood Engravings. Super-royal Svo, leather back, gilt top, with
complete Index, 2 vols., 3/. ^s.

Vivian {A. P.) Wanderings in the Western Land. 3rd Edition,

I or. ^d.
Voyages. See McCormick.

Jyf/ALLACE (Z.) Ben Leur : A Tale of the Christ. Crown

*^*^ 8vo, caller

{Eev. C. H) The Names on the Gates of Fear,
and other Studies, By the Rev. C. H. Waller, ]\I.A. New
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3^-. 6./.

~ — A Grammar and Analytical Vocabulary of the Words in
the Greek Testament. Compiled from Bride's Concordance. For
the use of Divinity Students and Greek Testament Classes. By the
Rev. C. H. Waller, M. A. Part I. The Grammar. Small post 8vo,
cloth, 2s. 6d. Part II. The Vocabulary, 2s. 6d.

Adoption and the Covenant. Some Thoughts on

Confirmation. Super-royal imo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
Silver Sockets ; and other Shadows of Redemption.

Eighteen Sermons preached in Christ Church, Hampstead. Small

post Svo, cloth, ds.
Warner {C. L>.) Pack-log Studies. Boards, i^. 6d. ; doth, 2s.
lVashi?tgton Living's Little Britain. Square crown Svo, 6j'.
Webster. (American Men of Letters.) imo, 2s. 6d.
JVeis7nann {A.) Studies in the Theory of Descent. One of the

most complete of recent contributions to the Theory of Evolution.

With a Preface by the late Charles Darwin, F.R.S., and numerous

Coloured Plates. 2 vols., 8vo, 40^-.
Wheat ley {H. B.) and Melmotte {P. IL.) Art Work in Porcelain.

Large Svo, 2x. ()d.
Art I Fork in Gold and Silver. Modern. Large Svo,

2s. 6d.
White (Rhoda E.) From Infancy to Womanhood. A Book of

Instruction for Young Mothers. Crown Svo, cloth, loj-. 6^.

White {R. G.) England Without and Within. New Edition,

crown 8vo, los. 6d.
Whittier {/. G.) The King's Missive, and later Poems. imo,

choice parchment cover, 3^-. 6d.
■ The Whittier Birthday Book. Extracts from the

Author's writings, with Portrait and numerous Illustrations. Uniform

with the "Emerson Birthday Book." Square imo, very choice

binding, 3J. dd.

Life of. ByR. A. Underwood. Cr. 8vo, cloth, 105. dd.

Wild Flowers of Switzerland. With Coloured Plates, life-size,

from living Plants, and Botanical Descriptions of each Example.

Imperial 4to, 52^-. 6^.
Williams (C. F.) The Tariff Laws of the United States. 8vo,

cloth, 10^. 6d.
Williams {H. W.) Diseases of the Eye. 8vo, 21^.
Williams (M.) Some London Theatres: Past and Frees nt.

Crown 8vo, 7^. 6d.
Wills, A Few Flints on Proving, without Professional A assistance.

By a Probate Court Official. 5th Edition, revised, with Forms

of Wills, Residuary Accounts, &c. Cap. 8vo, cloth limp, is.
Winckelmann john) History of Ancient Art. Translated by

John Lodge, M.D. With very numerous' Plates and Illustrations.

2 vols., Svo, 365-.
Winks ( W. E.) Lives of Illustrious Shoemakers. With eight

Portraits. Crown Svo, "^s, 6d.
Woodbury {Geo. E.) History of Wood Engraving. Illustrated,

Svo, rSx.
JVoolsey {C. D., LL.D.) Introduction to the Study of International

Law ; designed as an Aid in Teaching and in Historical

Studies. 5th Edition, demy Svo, iSj-.
Wilson constance F.) See " Low's Standard Novels."

Wright the late Rev. Hey) The Friendship of God. With
Biographical Preface by the Rev. E. H. Bickersteth, Portrait,
(Sic. Crown Svo, 6s,

^^RIARTE charles) Florence: its History. Translated by
•^ C. B. Pitman. Illustrated with 500 Engravings. Large imperial

4to, extra binding, gilt edges, 63^-.

History ; the I^iedici ; the Romanists ; letters ; arts ; the Renaissance ;

illustrious Florentines; Etruscan art; monuments; sculpture; painting.

EouKon: /

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston, ,. ^
CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET. E.C.
